When I went into his room last evening , Frank was reading the bible to him , and Gertrude stood ready with her prayer book , to read the prayers for the sick . 
His little sister , Gertrude , on the other , reading aloud . 
`` What say you , my little Gertrude ? '' 
`` Oh , Gertrude , '' he said , `` do you believe Mr. Flavel is a bad man ! '' 
Gertrude certainly had given an insufficient reason for the faith that was in her ; and it had little effect in allaying Frank 's apprehensions ; and impelled by them he ventured , though he knew it was forbidden ground , to steal into Mr. Flavel 's room . 
said Gertrude , `` and must he die ? '' 
As he entered his house he met his little girl , Gertrude , in the entry . 
She bounded towards him , exclaiming , `` Good news ! 
what have you heard , Gertrude ? '' 
`` I have received the first prize in my class , '' and glowing with the emotion she expected to excite , she drew from beneath her apron a prize-book , bright in new morocco and gilding . 
exclaimed her father , `` I thought you '' -- had heard some news from the jury , he was going to add ; but he suppressed the last half of the sentence , half-amused and half-vexed at his own weakness . 
`` Gertrude , '' said Frank , as his father shut the door , `` do n't you wish our grandfather had not left father any money ? '' 
`` No it is not all the same , by a great deal , Gertrude . 
Ca n't you be my good Genius , Gertrude ? '' 
Frank 's attention was rivetted , and though he now and then startled Gertrude with a groan , he would exclaim in the next breath , `` Go on -- go on ! '' 
She continued to read till he fell asleep . 
The formation of Gertrude 's character was the first object of his life , and he wished , while it was flexible , to secure for it the happiest external influences . 
He wished to inspire his child with moderation and humility . 
He wished to give her a knowledge and right estimate of the just uses and responsibilities of the fortune of which she was to be the dispenser . 
How was this to be achieved amidst the ` dear five hundred friends ' she had inherited from her mother -- the flippant idlers of fashionable life ? 
Gertrude 's character , originally of a firm texture , was strengthened by her father 's timidity . 
To these Gertrude opposed a resoluteness , and equanimity , that to a careless and superficial observer might seem coldness ; but such know not how carefully the fire that is used only for holy purposes is concealed and guarded . 
But our fair readers may be curious to know whether Gertrude 's rustication was to be perpetual ? 
Mr. Clarence delighted to talk of him to Gertrude , to dwell on and magnify his rare qualities . 
He maintained a constant correspondence with Mr. Clarence , and his graceful and spirited letters seemed to impart to her acquaintance with his character , the vividness of personal intercourse . 
It was natural that Mr. Clarence , in looking forward to the probable contingency of Gertrude 's marriage , should in his own mind fix on Gerald Roscoe , as the only person to whom he would willingly resign her ; but it certainly was not prudent to infuse a predilection into her mind , and to nourish that predilection without calculating all the chances against its gratification , and that fatal but unthought of chance , that her sentiment might not be reciprocated . 
The lawn was circular , and surrounded with shrubs and flowers , which Gertrude loved better than any thing , not of human kind . 
When he entered the breakfast parlor , Gertrude and Mr. Seton only were there . 
`` Where is the breakfast , Gertrude ? '' 
I have mentioned to you the anecdote of Lord Mansfield , Gertrude ? '' 
And Gertrude could scarcely repress a smile , when she recollected how many times it had been mentioned to her . 
`` I presume , Gertrude , it is not necessary to wait breakfast for Miss Layton . '' 
Do you know why Sarah does not bring the breakfast , Gertrude ? '' 
`` I hear her coming , sir . '' 
`` What are you looking at , Gertrude ? 
Mr. Clarence threw up the sash , and would have expressed his impatient displeasure to Seton , but Gertrude laid her hand on his arm : `` My dear father ! 
Gertrude looked on the tables , on the book-shelves , on the piano , on every thing that could support a book ; but the London Quarterly , the North American , the Literary Gazette , New Monthly , Ladies ' Magazine , the Analectic , Eclectic , every thing but the Edinburgh , was forthcoming -- thathad vanished . 
`` There is no use in looking , Gertrude ; it 's gone of course ; it 's of no consequence ; the breakfast is here . '' 
I have been tormenting poor Gertrude and Louis ; but I ca n't help it -- I believe spirits , sensibility , every thing , as a friend of mine says , depend on the state of the stomach . 
asked Gertrude , with a very significant smile . 
`` There it is -- see there , Miss Emilie -- My good Gertrude has saved me from playing Blue Beard on a poor window 's chickens this morning . 
she would have surrendered her life , if either Gertrude or I had required it . '' 
Mr. Clarence broke the seal of his , saying it was a short business-letter , and that he had left his spectacles in the library ; he asked Gertrude to read it to him . 
Mr. Clarence closed the door after him and turning to Gertrude , asked her what could be the meaning of this . 
Gertrude was in tears ; for a moment she could not reply , but taking up a letter Seton had dropped , and , glancing at it and looking at the signature , `` It is so , '' she said ; `` the letters are both from that vulgar brother of Seton -- they were misdirected -- this was meant for you . '' 
My wife `` would be very glad to accept Miss Gertrude 's `` invitation , as she is remarkably fond of Louis , as `` indeed we all are . 
The rose for Miss Gertrude , `` and the calliflower for yourself , I shall do myself `` the pleasure to send by the first opportunity . 
Till `` then believe me , sir , with much respect and esteem , `` and gratitude , to you and to Miss Gertrude , `` Your very obedient , `` humble servant , `` William Seton . '' 
Is it possible , Gertrude , that Louis has any thing in common with this base fellow ? '' 
Gertrude 's tears dropped fast on the letter which she still held in her hand , folding and refolding it . 
Mr. Clarence walked up and down the room , till suddenly stopping , he said ; `` Seton is not all I could have wished for you , my dear Gertrude -- his delicate health -- the nervous , susceptible constitution of his mind , are , according to my view of things , great evils -- but he is pure , and disinterested , and talented . 
I see your emotion , Gertrude , your wishes shall govern mine . '' 
`` Do you mean deliberately to abjure matrimony , Gertrude ? '' 
That resolution and feeling will last , Gertrude , till you see some one worthy to vanquish it ; but that it exists now is proof enough that you are yet fancy free . 
`` But not playing with them , '' replied Gertrude with a faint smile ; and then kissing her father , and thanking him for his compliance , she left him and went to a difficult task . 
She met a servant in the entry ; `` Have you seen Mr. Seton ? '' 
`` Yes ma'am ; and Miss Clarence , '' he added , drawing closer to her , and lowering his voice , `` there 's something the matter with Mr. Seton -- he just called me to pack his clothes , and he was all in a flutter , and just walked about the room without doing the least thing for himself . '' 
He had an expression of self-command and offended pride , bordering on haughtiness , and so foreign to his customary , gentle , and sentimental demeanor , that Gertrude forgot her prepared speech and said , `` You are not offended , Louis ? '' 
He fixed his eye on Gertrude , and she proceeded . 
Have we not in two years too firmly established our mutual confidence and friendship to have them shaken by the accidents of this morning ? '' 
While Gertrude dwelt in generals , she could talk with the coolness of a philosopher ; but as she again approached particulars , her voice became tremulous . 
`` You do not mean to reject me , Louis ? '' 
she added , playfully extending her hand to him . 
He turned away from her . 
`` Oh Gertrude ! 
Gertrude ! 
`` You must not interrupt me , Gertrude . 
That talent introduced me to you , Gertrude , gave me estimation in your eyes , was the medium of our daily intercourse , and I cherished and cultivated it as if it were , as it in truth was , the principle of life to me . 
`` No , no , Mr. Seton , '' replied Gertrude , raising her head , and removing from her face the handkerchief that had hidden from Seton the deep emotion with which she listened to him . 
`` No , Louis , '' she continued in the kindest and firmest tone , `` but such disclosures are useless -- they may be worse than useless . '' 
`` Gertrude , I have no terms to keep with consequences , and I pray you to hear me out . 
Nothing now remains but to pray you to render me justice with your father ; and to beg you , Gertrude , to bear me kindly in your memory . '' 
He took her hand and pressed it to his burning lips . 
Gertrude was agitated with the conflicting suggestions of her own mind . 
That purpose was now nearly subdued by seeing the strength of a sentiment which she had hoped to modify or change . 
She shrunk with instinctive delicacy from the manifestation of a passion that had no corresponding sentiment in her own heart . 
Her first and strongest impulse was to escape from the sight of misery which she could not relieve . 
-- ` Could she not mitigate it ? ' 
-- ` At least , ' she thought , as the current of generous purpose flowed back through her heart , ` at least I will try what persevering efforts may do , ' and bodying her thoughts in words , `` Louis , '' she said , `` I will not part with you ; you must stay with us . 
`` Do you believe this , Gertrude ? '' 
Seton caught one moment of inspiration , from the sweet tone of assurance in which Gertrude spoke . 
`` Ah , Gertrude , '' he said , `` you are happy , and have the energy and hope of the happy ; but for me there are no bright realities in life ; it is stripped of its illusions . 
I am yet in my youth , Gertrude , and I look forward with the dim , disconsolate eye of age . 
`` I should think , Mr. Seton , '' she said , `` you might have consideration enough to put off your lessons to-day , when there is but every thing for Miss Gertrude to see to . '' 
Gertrude was alarmed and oppressed with the depth of poor Seton 's sorrow ; and though , to him , she had assumed a tone of firmness and serenity , his despondency had infected her , and as he left the room , she sunk back in her chair , her mind abstracted from every thing around her , and filled with gloomy and just presentiments . 
`` Miss Gertrude , '' said Becky . 
Gertrude made no reply , she did not even hear Becky , shrill and impatient as her tone was . 
Her vacant eye accidently rested on a fine game-piece Seton had recently finished , which was standing before her on the library-table . 
But come , Miss Gertrude , I should be glad you would tell me what we are to do ? 
`` Why Miss Gertrude ; I never saw you so with your thoughts at the end of the world , when sure we had never more need of them ; but you will have to make up your mind to it , for the dinner has fallen through -- the whole -- entirely . '' 
This was indeed an alarming annunciation to the mistress of an establishment , who expected invited company to dinner , and who , like Gertrude , considered a strict surveillance of her domestic concerns as among the first of woman 's temporal duties . 
She therefore recalled her thoughts from their wanderings , and roused all her powers , to avert the shower of grievances which she saw lowering on Becky 's clouded brow . 
`` Matter , Miss Gertrude ! 
`` I know that , Miss Gertrude , but then I thought to myself , it 's no time to be notional when there 's company invited , and not a pound of freshto be had for love or money ; but as ill luck would have it , Hilson had engaged the whole nine for the Independence dinner , a delightsome sight they 'll be , all standing on their feet with each an ear of corn in his mouth . 
But thinking of them , '' added Becky , -- mentally reproaching herself for this gush of professional enthusiasm , -- `` Thinking of them wont fill our dishes ; and so , Miss Gertrude , I want you to send word to the Widow Carter , you must have her fowls , whether or no . 
`` And you beat all , Miss Gertrude , for making day-light come , '' replied Becky , pleased with her mistress ' compliment , and relieved by her ready ingenuity . 
When Gertrude entered her own apartment , she found Emilie Layton sitting at a writing-desk , busily employed in answering her letters . 
`` You put me in mind , Emilie , '' said Gertrude , kissing her cheek , `` you put me in mind of a shower when the sun is shining . '' 
`` I will not be miserable any longer ; would you , Gertrude ? '' 
If I dared , I would show you all these letters ; but , dear Gertrude , you can advise me without knowing what the real state of the case is , only that papa and mama want me to do something that I hate to do -- that I would rather die than do . 
Gertrude did not need second sight to conjecture what the nature of this parental requisition might be . 
You have divined it most certainly , Gertrude ; but I have not told you a word , you know . 
Mama charges me not in her letter . 
You may read it , Gertrude . 
Gertrude read aloud , `` To my mother 's best and dearest friend . '' 
-- `` Your father , of course ? '' 
Miss Layton blushed , and there was an expression of acute pain passed over her face , as she said with quivering lips , `` Oh no , Gertrude , I wish it were so ; but perhaps you think I have addressed it improperly -- if you do , just run the pen through that line . '' 
Gertrude did so , and read on , `` As `` mama has told me , Mr. Roscoe , that you already `` know all about a certain affair , I trust I am not `` doing wrong in begging you to intercede with `` my dear mother in my behalf . 
Do intercede `` for me , if I have not made an improper request , `` and if I have , forget it , and remember only your `` friend , E. L. '' Gertrude laid down the letter without comment . 
Gertrude smiled at her simplicity . 
`` Oh , Gertrude , you do not know mama . 
She can talk me out of my five senses , and she says nobody in the world has such influence over her as Mr.Roscoe . '' 
On second thoughts , Gertrude believed that Emilie might need a sturdier support than her own yielding temper , and she acquiesced in the letter being sent ; and Emilie despatched it , and drove from her heart every feeling of sorrow almost as easily as she removed its traces from her heart 's bright and beautiful mirror . 
Your dinners , Gertrude , are always in such suberb style . 
Gertrude blushed when she thought of the disasters of the larder , and the miscellaneous dinner preceded by such a silly flourish of trumpets . 
`` Oh , do n't be alarmed , Gertrude , dear , '' continued the good lady , `` I am sure it will be just the thing , and then you know a beauty and a fortune , '' glancing her little glassy eye , with ineffable gratulation from Emilie , to Gertrude , `` a beauty and a fortune will give the party such eclat ! 
`` Oh , remarkably ingenious , '' exclaimed Mrs. Upton , `` by the way , Gertrude , dear , where is Louis Seton to-day ? '' 
you remember , Gertrude , dear ? '' 
Oh , yes , it was West ; now I remember all about it -- it was husband told me -- his parents were wretchedly poor ; wer ` nt they , Gertrude , dear ? '' 
`` Oh , yes ; that is just what husband told me -- and being too poor , and being born , as it were , a painter , he invented colors -- or brushes -- which was it , Gertrude , dear ? '' 
`` Neither , I believe , '' replied Gertrude , suppressing a smile , and glad of an opportunity to shelter Mrs. Upton 's ignorance , and save her friends from her farther garrulity , she proceeded to relate the well known story of West having made his first brush from the hairs of a cat 's tail , and of his having , instructed by the Indians , compounded his first colors from the vegetable productions of the wilds around him . 
` Ah , ' thought Gertrude , ` she is going to confide to me poor Emilie 's affair . 
thought Gertrude , ` Emilie said Roscoe was her mother 's most intimate friend , ' and the pang that shot through her heart at this recollection was evident in her face , for Mrs. Layton paused a moment before she added -- `` Gerald Roscoe . '' 
At this confirmation of her mental conjectnre , Gertrude involuntarily covered her face with her hands , and then , disconcerted to the last degree at having betrayed her sensations , she said , half articulately , something of her being taken by surprise at the mention of Gerald Roscoe 's name , that he was her father 's friend , but she concluded with hoping Mrs. Layton would not think she cared at all about it . 
But Mrs. Layton was quite too keen and sagacious an observer to be imposed on for a moment by such awkward hypocrisy as Gertrude 's . 
She saw she did care a great deal about it , and giving a feminine interpretation to her emotion , and anxious to efface every unpleasant impression from her mind , she said in her sweetest manner , `` I enjoy in anticipation Roscoe 's surprise when he shall see you . 
On the whole , Gertrude -- I must call you Gertrude -- dearGertrude -- I think I may claim to have done you a favor . 
` Ah , ' thought Gertrude , ` those impressions will never be removed , I shall be paralyzed , a very Eunice Peabody , if ever I meet him . ' 
There was something in Gertrude that really excited her imagination . 
She saw she was of a very different order from the ordinary run of well-bred , well-informed , decorous , pleasing young ladies -- a class particularly repulsive and tiresome to Mrs. Layton . 
She spared no pains to efface the impression the letter evidently left on Gertrude 's mind . 
She taxed all her arts of pleasing -- talked of herself , alluded to her faults , so eloquently , that the manner was a beautiful drapery that covered up and concealed the matter . 
She spoke with generous confidence of the adverse circumstances of her matrimonial destiny , and Gertrude , in her simplicity , not doubting that she was the sole depository of this revelation , felt a secret self-gratulation in the qualities that had elicited so singular a trust , and the tenderest sympathy with the sufferer of unprovoked wrongs . 
Then Mrs. Layton again reverted to Roscoe , the person of all others of whom Gertrude was most curious to hear . 
She had a kind of dot and line art in sketching characters , and with a few masterly touches presented a vivid image . 
She spoke of society ; and its vanities , excitements and follies , like bubbles catching the sun 's rays , kindled in the light of her imagination . 
Gertrude listened and felt that her secluded life was a paralyzed , barren existence . 
`` Gertrude , dear , '' she said , `` I hope you willexcuse our going rather early . 
`` Not all , '' said Mrs. Layton , and added in a whisper to Gertrude , `` who but Shakspeare could have delineated Slender ? '' 
Gertrude was surprised and disappointed at finding Emilie on the piazza , prepared to return with her mother ; but there was no opportunity for expostulation . 
`` There goes our English visiter , Gertrude , '' said he , `` enriched no doubt with precious morceaus for his diary . 
`` It is unfortunate , '' said Gertrude , `` that travellers should fall into such hands . '' 
`` No , no , Gertrude ; it makes no difference with such travellers . 
Mrs. Layton found herself compelled by the receipt of her husband 's letter , suddenly to suspend this intercourse , and she despatched the following note to Gertrude , in which , as will be seen , she did not hint at the place of her destination after she left Upton 's - purchase . 
She had her reasons for this reserve . 
`` Dear Gertrude , you must be my friend , you must `` love me ; you will have much to forgive in me . 
Till then , believe me , dear Gertrude , Gertrude wondered that Mrs. Layton should be so reserved about Emilie 's affairs , when she manifested such singular confidence , and unbounded tenderness ; for measuring her new friend by her own purity and truth , she gave full credit to all her expressions . 
Contrasted with the simple regard and unexaggerated language of Gertrude 's common acquaintance , they were like the luscious fruits of the tropics , compared with our cold northern productions . 
But she had now no time to analyze her fascinating friend . 
The jaunt to Trenton , to which her father had at once consented , on Seton 's account had been delayed from day to day , for two weeks , from the daily occurrence of the rural affairs of midsummer , that seem to country gentlemen , of the first importance . 
The family physician , announced the approach of a nervous fever , that could only be averted by change of air ; and Mr. Clarence put aside every other concern ; and , on the very day of Mrs. Layton 's departure , he set off with Gertrude and Seton , and servants competent to the care of the invalid , in case he failed to derive the benefit they hoped , from the journey . 
If the unhappy patient 's malady had been within the reach of art , it must have been subdued by Gertrude 's ministrations ; for with that exquisite sensisibility , which vibrates to every motion of another 's spirit , she watched all the variations of his mind , and imparted or withheld the sunshine of her own , as best suited his humor ; but , in spite of skill and patience , and sisterly vigilance , the nervous fever predicted by the physician made hourly encroachments ; and the necessity of a few hours ' delay at one of the noisiest inns of that noisiest of all growingtowns , thronged busy Utica , exasperated the disease to an alarming degree . 
Here , he , Gertrude , and Seton , seated themselves ; and here they might for a little time , but for poor Seton , have been well enough amused with the contrast to the seclusion , quiet , and elegance of their home . 
`` It will certainly kill him , '' thought Gertrude , and calling to a black fellow , who was hurrying hither and thither , as if he were the ruling spirit of the scene ; `` my good friend , '' she said , imploringly , `` can not you get a private room , for that sick gentleman ? '' 
Report says that Miss C -- '' Here the letter had been interrupted , and as Gertrude hoped , unintentionally left , for she could not believe that a person who could indite a decent epistle would expose such allusions to public inspection . 
` Who could have written it ? ' 
She ran over the whole catalogue of her own , and her father 's acquaintance . 
Not one appeared as the probable writer . 
She thought of Gerald Roscoe , but she was familiar with his autograph , and , ` thank heaven , it was not he , ' she ejaculated audibly , and smiled involuntarily at the sensation of escape she derived from this assurance . 
` Why was it she had rather it had been any other man living than Gerald Roscoe ? ' 
Before she had given this self-interogation fair hearing , and while she was folding the manuscript with the intention of showing it to her father , she heard a tap at the door , and the voice of the negro-servant , saying , ` Wo n't missess please to hand me a written letter , lying on the table under a handkerchief , and wo n't missess please to keep the handkerchief tight over it , casethe gentleman 's very pa ` tic ` larnot to have me , nor nobody read it . '' 
She looked around the room , saw a cambric handkerchief , not far from the place where she had found the letter , and scrupulously covered it ; but she did not transfer it to the servant till -LRB- as every woman will believe -RRB- she had vainly investigated every corner for a mark . 
She was gratified with this indirect assurance that the exposure of the letter had been accidental and limited to herself , and probably owing to the draft of wind occasioned by her throwing open the window when she entered the apartment . 
But what could console the high-minded Gertrude Clarence for the conviction that continually pressed on her from every quarter , and in every form , that the accident of fortune , a distinction that she had never sought , and never valued , exposed her to slights and ridicule ; to be dreaded and avoided by one class , courted and flattered by another . 
She thought of Seton , and it can not be questioned that she felt a glow of satisfaction that she had excited one pure , disinterested sentiment ; and a secret regret that affection was in its nature so independent and inflexible , that , though she would , she could not love him who so well deserved her love . 
Then came the bitterest reflection of all ; her fortune had envenomed the shaft that wounded Seton 's peace . 
In vain did Gertrude point out the rich hills and valleys of Oneida -- the almost boundless view of a country so recently redeemed from savages and savage wildness , and now rich , populous , and cultivated . 
` Gertrude looked better than he had seen her for six months . ' 
The guests were judiciously disposed in a part of the house as remote as possible from that occupied by Mr. Clarence ; and Gertrude passed the evening in her father 's apartment , reading aloud to him , according to her usual custom . 
His attendant , however , reported that he was doing well , and Gertrude , after giving her last minute directions , bade her father ` good night . ' 
As she shut the door of his apartment , her book in one hand , and lamp in the other , her foot was entangled in the cloak of a gentleman who was standing muffled in the little gallery . 
In extricating herself from the awkward embarrassment , her lamp fell . 
The cloak encumbered him , he threw it aside , and Gertrude could not but notice , with a curiosity stimulated by the concealment for which the cloak had obviously been worn -- for nothing could be more agreeably tempered than the atmosphere -- the fine figure and classic head thus accidentally and unintentionally disclosed . 
The gentleman made some common-place , but , as Gertrude thought , pleasant remark about it , which was suddenly cut off by a servant , who came up the stairs and whispered to him . 
Gertrude then went to her own apartment . 
After remaining there a while , she missed her keys , and recollecting she had left the bag that contained them in the parlor , she went down stairs in quest of them . 
As she approached the parlor-door which stood a-jar , she heard voices in low and earnest conversation . 
` Such a man could scarcely speak in vain , ' thought Gertrude , as she turned away , and stole back to her own apartment . 
There she revolved in her own mind the probable meaning of Mrs. Layton 's unexpected appearance at Trenton -- the obscure intimations in relation to Emilie in her farewell note -- this private interview with the elegant stranger -- the Utica scrawl ; and she would probably have arrived at the right exposition , if that had not involved Mrs. Layton in deep reproach . 
On such a night it is treason against nature to steep the senses in sleep ; voluntarily to close the natural entrances to all this glory ; at least , so thought Gertrude , and obeying a sudden impulse , she threw on her shawl , and creeping softly down stairs , she entered the apartment where the only member of the family who was out of bed , was drowsily adjusting his ledger . 
`` I am going down to the falls , '' she said . 
Gertrude did not think it worth while to explain the advantage of the claire obscure , and simply requested a lamp might be left standing in the entry for her . 
Gertrude , therefore , happily escaped a remonstrance , and soon found herself in the little path traversing the deep wood which borders the precipitous bank of the West Canada creek -- a narrow , deeply embedded stream , that after winding , leaping , and foaming in its unnoticed solitude for centuries , has , within the last few years , become one of the staple curiosities of the country . 
There is something vast and oppressive in such immobility and stillness , and Gertrude felt , in approaching the brawling , noisy , little stream , as if it were a living soul -- a being endowed with feeling and sympathy , and voice to speak them . 
She rapidly descended the several flights of steps , that afford but a slippery and inconvenient passage down a precipitous rock of a hunbred feet in height -- so grudgingly does art seem to have lent her aid to her mistress nature -- but here nature may well scoff at her handmaid 's negligence , for here she reigns a queen of beauty ; every heart does her homage ; every heart ! 
Gertrude pursued the usual walk along the margin of the stream , now passing with security over the broad , flat rocks , and now cautiously creeping around the jutting buttresses , whose bases are fretted by the foaming torrent , and whose sides afford a perilous passage along a shelving ledge , scarcely wide enough for a heron 's foot . 
Fortunately , Gertrude had none of the physical sensitiveness that renders some persons incapable of approaching a rapid stream without dizziness . 
Self-possessed , and sure-footed , she passed the most difficult passages without fear and without danger . 
She ascended to the summit of the first fall by the natural and rough stair-way , and pursuing her walk , canopied by the over-arching rocks , and creeping along the shelving shore , she attained the side of the foaming , deep abyss , into which the stream rushes at two bold leaps . 
She stood for some moments gazing on the torrent , and almost deafened by its roar , when she was startled by a footstep close to her . 
She turned , and saw the stranger who seemed , that evening , destined to cross her path at every turn . 
He bowed respectfully , and said he had not expected the pleasure of meeting any one at that extraordinary hour -- but he added , ` no hour could be more fit for a devotee to nature to visit her sanctuary . ' 
Gertrude thought there was something like a sarcastic smile playing about his lip , as if his reading of ` a devotee to nature , ' was ` a mighty romantic young lady , ' a construction she felt was warranted , but a light in which she did not quite like to appear . 
`` Yes , '' said Gertrude , pleased with a feeling so exactly corresponding with her own . 
`` But you saw none , '' said Gertrude . 
Gertrude felt the awkwardness of her position , the moment it was alluded to , and she rather abruptly asked the stranger , ` if he had ever seen Niagara ? ' 
`` And yet , '' said Gertrude , `` I hear the comparison often made , and Trenton often preferred . 
It was apparent that Gertrude had seen Niagara , and the stranger naturally asked her many questions in relation to it . 
Acquaintance makes rapid strides in such circumstances ; and it was not singular that the stranger , whose imagination was no doubt stimulated by the time and place of their encounter , should linger in Gertrude 's presence . 
He felt there was no propriety in detaining her any longer , if she intended to prosecute her walk ; nor , much as he desired to do it , could he , after her declaration , that she had come out for a solitary stroll , offer to attend her ; and inwardly praying she might say no , he asked if she meant to proceed farther . 
She answered -- for she was not in the palace of truth , nor dared she follow her inclinations -- ` yes , ' and the stranger , with evident reluctance , bade her good night , and soon disappeared . 
Gertrude now proceeded very slowly up the next acclivity . 
The walk had lost its charms . 
` He did not seem , ' she thought , ` to remember our first meeting this evening ; his mind must have been intent on his approaching interview with Mrs. Layton . 
` How often has my father said , ' thought Gertrude , ` that Gerald 's smile was electrifying ; ' that it was ` like the sun bursting through a cloud -- a smile of intelligence , arch , sportive , and good-humored . ' 
Gertrude was startled and roused from her reverie by what she fancied to be a strain of music . 
It seemed wafted over the torrent , and not mingling with its din , as if the breathing of some spirit above her . 
thought she . 
She looked timidly around , and as she listened , the strain sounded familiar . 
`` It can not be ! '' 
she exclaimed , and yet impelled by an irresistible impulse , she sprang forward in the direction whence the sound came . 
`` Should it be he ! '' 
she cried fearfully , and hurrying through a tangled path , she came out on a broad projecting rock , that although a few feet below the summit of the lower fall , commanded a full view of it . 
While Gertrude gazed fearfully , the person advanced to the brink of the water , threw the flute into the torrent , bent over it , and clasped his hands as if in prayer . 
shrieked Gertrude . 
The scream of agony reached his ear , and arrested him ; he looked wildly around . 
She reiterated her cries and waved her handkerchief . 
He saw her and descended the cliff towards her so swiftly and recklessly that she covered her eyes in terror , lest she should see him plunge into the abyss . 
As he drew near , she ventured again to look at him . 
He had carelessly thrown over his under garments a white dressing-gown , and his whole appearance confirmed Gertrude in her first impression , that he was delirious . 
But when he said , in his usual low-toned gentle voice , `` You called me -- did you not , Gertrude ? '' 
she replied , half reassured , and still half doubtful , `` Yes ; I feared you were venturing too near the fall , and , '' she added , with a smile of admirable self-possession , `` I thought myself fortunate to meet you just at the very moment I was returning homeward , and dreading to retrace the way alone . '' 
It is a glimpse of heaven ; I will never leave it but for a brighter , '' he added , in a tone of unwonted decision and confidence ; `` Sit down on this rock , Gertrude -- I did not expect this -- this is the first blissful hour of my life . 
There was something irresistibly appealing , and affecting in his manner , and Gertrude smothered her fears and sat down ; `` I dreamed , '' he continued , `` an angel would show me the way -- it 's very strange -- I can not account for it ; '' he passed his hand over his brow , like one who would disentangle his recollections , `` I do not think , Gertrude , it ever occurred to me , that you were to be that angel . '' 
`` But I am , '' said Gertrude , rising , and hoping to govern him , by humoring his wild fancies , `` I am , and you are bound to follow whither I lead . 
` This will not do , I am exciting his delirium , ' thought Gertrude ; and stopping suddenly , she said , with all the composure she could command , `` I ought , indeed , to be an angel to flit over these rocks at this unearthly rate . 
We had best return to our every-day characters , Louis ; it is childish to risk our lives , in this foolish way . '' 
Gertrude , did you see my flute , as it silently floated away ? 
Think you , Gertrude , it would be as easy to still that heart , as the poor instrument ? '' 
`` But the heart is not yours , Louis , '' said Gertrude , assuming a playfulness , difficult to affect , while she was in a panic ; `` you gave me your heart , you know , and you have no right to resume it . '' 
`` Yes , I gave it to you , Gertrude , and it was a good gift -- a true loving heart -- but you would not take it -- you could not -- you know you said so -- but , one thing I tell you , Miss Clarence , you will go forth into the world , you will be sought , and flattered , and you will learn , from bitter experience , the value of a true , faithful heart -- no wealth can buy it -- wealth ! 
Gertrude , I felt as if I were going mad , yesterday -- but I am well , quite well , now . '' 
Gertrude became more alarmed , at every new incoherency ; and felt her total helplessness , should he again attempt the violence on himself , he had purposed . 
It struck her , that she might , possibly , lure him onward , by addressing his love of his art , next to his love for her , his strongest passion ; without replying , or adverting , to any thing he had said . 
`` Come , Louis ! '' 
she exctaimed , `` we are wasting time -- you promised me , some moon-light sketches of the falls ; and , farther on , there is a beautiful view -- if we do not hasten , we shall lose the best light for it . 
She walked at as quick a pace as she dared ; and Seton , obedient as a bird to his lady 's whistle , followed her . 
They proceeded on their return , beyond the first fall ; and Gertrude meant to lead him on , without alluding again to the view , but his painter 's eye , as it rolled from shore to shore , caught the point of sight . 
Gertrude had unwarily touched the wrong key . 
Seton sprang to his feet -- `` a weakness , is it Gertrude ? 
Gertrude 's heart sunk within her ; but calling forth all her courage , she said , `` I agree with you , Louis ; the world has dark , tiresome passages enough ; but even the worst of them , like our rugged path here , may be cheered by a light from above . 
`` Gertrude ! '' 
He took her hand and pressed it to his scorchiug lips : `` I have heard the parting spirit had always some intimation of the future -- of good , or evil : this is good -- this is light to my heart : I have no more fear . 
Again and again he kissed her hand : `` it is over now , Gertrude , '' and he sprang towards the rushing stream . 
Gertrude grasped his arm , and , shivering with terror , detained him forcibly . 
Come , do not -- do not , '' she continued , imploringly , `` refuse me this last kindness ; come , quickly . '' 
She moved forward , and perceiving that he followed , she ran along the broken shore , sprang from the rolling stones , and leaped from crag to crag , forgetful of all dangers but one , till she came to the last projecting rock , where the foot-hold is extremely narrow , and rendered most perilous by the agitation of the water , which at times lashes the side of the rock , but five or six feet below the narrow margin , on which the passenger treads , in a position not quite upright , but rather inclining over the stream . 
Seton still followed and was close to her , but the spell that had controlled him so far , might break at any moment . 
Gertrude 's courage failed -- a nervous sickness came over her -- her head turned , her feet faltered , and she retreated a few steps , and sunk to the ground . 
It was but a momentary weakness ; she ejaculated a prayer for resolution and strength , and sprang to her feet again . 
`` I am rested now , Louis , '' she said ; `` once round this rock , we are almost home ; follow me , dear Louis . '' 
His face was towards Gertrude , but his eye was glazed and turned upwards : it appeared that his senses were paralyzed , and that he neither saw , heard , nor felt ; for though Gertrude urged , supplicated , and wrung her hands in agony , he maintained the same , statue-like stillness , looking like an image carved in the rock , before which a terror-struck suppliant was standing . 
Gertrude dared not advance towards him -- his position did not admit assistance -- and the slightest movement , even though involuntary , might prove fatal . 
She cried to Heaven for aid , but while the unavailing prayer was on her lips , Seton slipped gently from the rock into the current below . 
In another breath his body swept past her . 
he tries to save himself , '' cried Gertrude . 
`` Merciful God , help him ! '' 
she screamed , and sprang forward , in the hope that she might herself extend some aid ; but , instantly , a counter-current swept him off towards the rapids , and his destruction seemed near and inevitable . 
Gertrude gazed after him , speechless , motionless -- as if awaiting the doom of fate . 
`` Should he resist -- '' cried Gertrude . 
Gertrude flew to him . 
She knelt beside him , and dried the water from his face and neck with her shawl . 
Seton was for a few moments incapable of motion or articulation , but he looked intelligently at Gertrude , and as if he felt to the heart 's core , the joy and gratitude that lit up her face with an almost supernatural brightness . 
When her first emotion gave place to a more natural tone of feeling , she would have fainted -- but she never fainted : she would have wept , but there was still something to be done . 
She attempted to rise , but her limbs trembled to such a degree as to be useless . 
Gertrude started at the voice , and , for the first time , looking at Seton 's preserver , she perceived he was the stranger . 
He smiled at the sudden recognition apparent on her countenance . 
`` I have been lingering at the steps here , '' he said , as if in reply to her looks , `` detained by my good fortune for your service . 
And so she appeared , for Seton was stimulated by fever . 
`` Oh , not for the world , '' replied Gertrude , for she felt the importance to Seton of keeping the adventure a secret , `` not for the world , '' she reiterated . 
She perceived the stranger smiled archly at her earnestness , and she guessed at his interpretation . 
In one particular she was determined to rectify his misconception . 
`` I came here , '' she continued , `` without the slightest expectation of meeting any one . 
At another time Gertrude might have felt a girlish and natural diffidence at receiving such attentions from a stranger ; but serious emotions give to these little punctilios their due insignificance and she received his kindness as quietly as if it were warranted by old acquaintance . 
Gertrude watched him anxiously till he disappeared from her in ascending the steps , and then she gave utterance to her devout gratitude for his preservation from death , by an interposition that appeared to her to have been miraculously provided . 
Accustomed to think and decide independently , she determined to keep poor Seton 's sad affair , so far as depended on herself , a profound secret . 
` Even my falher , kind and indulgent as he is , ' she thought , ` would not deem it quite prudent to retain Louis after this ; but have I not solemnly promised to be a sister to him ? 
Is it fair farther to expound Gertrude 's thoughts ? 
It must be told , that stimulated by an entire new set of emotions , she rose , threw the cloak from her , adjusted her hair , which she was mortified to find had fallen down , and which , as dame nature had given it neither the canonical heroine wave , or curl , could not but be ungraceful in disorder . 
`` I expected , '' he said , turning and offering his arm , which she declined -- he mended his phrase , `` I hoped to have had the pleasure of finding you there too -- I beg you will not walk so rapidly -- you have no occasion for anxiety about your friend ; he reached the house without difficulty -- and his own room , '' -- he added , with as Gertrude thought , a very significant emphasis -- `` his own room without observation . 
Gertrude , in her confusion , and desire to shelter Seton , said , `` he was weak from recent illness . '' 
The life , '' she continued , for she had now quite recovered the power of thought and speech , `` the life you have preserved would be worthless if there were any exposure . '' 
he asked , bending his knee gracefully to the step , gallantly taking her hand , and speaking in a tone of raillery that Gertrude felt made her pathetic appeal almost ridiculous , `` I do make it , '' he added with mock solemnity , `` craving only an exception in favor of one friend , a safe confidante -- my mother . 
I call on the bright moon to witness my vow , '' and in token of sealing it , his lips approached her hand , but without presuming to touch it . 
While Gertrude hesitated , resolved not to give her name , and feeling that it was almost childish to withhold it , a window-sash above their heads was gently raised , and murmuring a heart-felt ` God bless you , ' she escaped into the entry . 
There she lingered long enough to ascertain that Mrs. Layton was speaking to Roscoe ; and then , after listening at Seton 's door , and finding all quiet there , she retired to her room to revolve over and over again , and to place in various lights and shadows , the events of the evening . 
I have not closed my eyes '' continued John , `` the whole blessed night , but one bare minute , and then while I dosed , as it were , Mr. Louis took the advantage to slip down stairs , and pump some water on his head , that was fiery hot , and the poor young gentleman came back , as wet as a drowned kitten ; I was scared half out of my wits ; but I put on him dry clothes , and got him quite comfortable , and I hope Miss Gertrude , nor Mr. Clarence , wo n't take it amiss that I was overcome with that wink of sleep . '' 
But Miss Gertrude , though the gentlest of kind mistresses , did take it very much amiss ; and reproved John , with the utmost severity , that the offence , according to his statement of it , -LRB- which she was compelled to receive , -RRB- admitted . 
Gertrude felt too late that she had rashly undertaken a task she could not execute . 
` Oh , were I his sisterindeed ! ' 
she thought ` I would never leave him ! ' 
She blamed herself for urging his coming to Trenton , and wished nothing more than to get back to Clarenceville , where secluded from observation , she might share the personal care of him with her women ; but the physician , at his morning visit , declared a return impossible -- he would not even sanction a removal to a private house , but ordered the patient 's room to be made perfectly dark , and prescribed the usual remedies for a brain fever . 
The only indication that a spark of reason remained , was in the passiveness with which he received from Gertrude , what he rejected from every other hand . 
In the evening there was a slight remission of his fever , and Gertrude went to her own apartment , where Emilie Layton , who had sent her repeated messages during the day , was awaiting her . 
The affectionate girl threw herself into Gertrude 's arms -- expressed her delight at meeting her in the unqualified terms of youthful ecstasy , and her extreme pity for ` poor Mr. Seton . ' 
After informing her that her mother was longing to see her , but that she had been in bed all day , with a violent head-ache , she was silent , evidently embarrassed , and perplexed . 
She unclasped and clasped her bracelet twenty times , twisted every feather of her fan awry , and at last , throwing her handkerchief over her face , she said , `` dear Gertrude , I am engaged to be married to Mr. Pedrillo . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude . 
`` I knew you would think so , Gertrude , '' she said , as if replying to a long remonstrance -- `` I told mama you would -- but it is not so very -- verybad ; '' and she laid her head on Gertrude 's shoulder , and sobbed aloud . 
You are so reasonable , and so judicious , and all that , Gertrude , that I suppose you have not felt so ; but I expected to be in love when I married . 
`` Would not you , Gertrude ? 
-- then , it is right -- I am sure it is right ; '' and her beautiful face brightened all over ; but , instantly , a shadow crossed it -- as much of a shadow , as can appear on a freshly blown rose , and sighing heavily , she added , `` but it is no use now -- it is all settled . '' 
He is very kind , and generous to me ; he gave me these splendid bracelets ; but Gertrude , when I put them on I could not help thinking of the natives of Cuba , you know , who thought , poor simpletons , that the Spaniards were only decorating them with beautiful ornaments , when they were fastening manacles on their wrists . 
He is called very handsome , Gertrude , '' she continued in as plaintive a voice as if she were counting her griefs ; `` he is very gay when he is pleased ; he has seen a great deal of the world though he is not very old -- not more than forty . '' 
`` So it seemed to me , Gertrude . 
I told mama forty seemed to me as old as the hills , but she quite laughed at me and quoted something from Moli ère , about his being the better fitted to guide my youth . '' 
Gertrude 's heart was full of sympathy , tenderness , and compassion for the unresisting victim , but she hesitated to express her feelings . 
` Why should she increase the reluctance that must be unavailing ? 
Were it not better to employ her influence over Emilie to reconcile her to the now inevitable event . ' 
`` I should certainly have carved out for you a different fate , dear Emilie , '' she said -- `` to love , as well as to be beloved , is always our young dream . '' 
`` That is true , Gertrude , and I will make the most of it . 
Gertrude recollected the Utica scrawl , and the impassioned intereiew that she had witnessed between Mrs. Layton and Roscoe , and some painful distrusts of that lady crossed her mind . 
`` Do not look so troubled about me , dear Gertrude , '' continued Emilie , rightly interpreting Gertrude 's expression . 
Emilie was interrupted by a summons to Gertrude from Seton 's physician . 
I forgot to mention that I want you to come down stairs to-morrow , there is a Miss Marion here who wishes excessively to see you ; and her brother -- and indeed , Gertrude , you should come down , for in spite of all I say , every body believes that you must be engaged to Mr. Seton . '' 
Gertrude was solicitous to avoid such an interpretation of her devotion to Seton , and she promised Emilie she would make her appearance on the following day . 
The scene was sad and monotonous to Gertrude , but there were various incidents occurring that were destined to affect the fortunes of those in whom she was interested . 
The Marions , or rather we should say Augusta Marion , was Emilie 's constant theme during her interviews with Gertrude . 
` She was certainly , ' she said , ` except her dear Gertrude , the most charming woman in the world , so agreeable and so witty ! ' 
Gertrude was delighted to see that Emilie could crop the flowers in her path . 
Mrs. Layton was still secluded in her own apartment , and beguiled Gertrude and Emilie -- and herself too -- with exaggerated expressions of sensibility and suffering ! 
` She could not see Gertrude , ' so said the little twisted pencil-scrawled notes which she sent her twice and thrice a day , ` an indifferent person she could meet without emotion ; but her nerves and affections were so interwoven that one could not be touched without the other vibrating . 
She was sustained by the consciousness of performing a necessary duty , but she had nothing of the martyr in her composition , and she shrunk from the fagot and the pile . 
She thanked heaven , poor Em ' had not the sad inheritance of her sensibility . 
In a few days she hoped to see Gertrude -- but now her nerves required solitude and a dark room . ' 
`` Dear Gertrude , '' said Emilie , bursting into her apartment , and looking as bright and fresh as a sunny morning in June , `` we are all going to the falls this afternoon -- do promise you will go with us . '' 
Mr. Clarence , who chanced to enter the room at the same moment , enforced Emilie 's entreaties , and Gertrude promised to join her in the parlor in the course of half an hour . 
Accordingly she went to the parlor at the appointed time ; but finding no one there , she passed into a small adjoining apartment , and while she was awaiting Emilie she examined a collection of minerals belonging to mine host of the ` rural resort , ' a versatile genius , who is well known to have diversified the labors of his calling with occasional lectures on the popular sciences . 
Poor Gertrude had been on the rack for the last ten minutes . 
There had been no point in the conversation from its start , when she could , without extreme embarrassment , make her appearance . 
As it had proceeded , she had become as anxious to avoid observation , as ever a hidden criminal was to escape detection . 
She would have jumped out of the window if there had been an open window ; but there was none -- no possible escape -- and she had stood , like a statue , hoping that some kind chance would call the parties away before she was compelled to make her egress . 
`` Gertrude , '' exclaimed Emilie , `` you are here after all ! '' 
There was tinge enough on Gertrude 's cheek to manifest her full consciousness of the awkward position in which she stood . 
Gertrude interrupted her , then recovering her self-possession , she said , `` An introduction is superfluous , Emilie , you would hand me across the vestibule -- I am already in the inner temple -- and your friends must believe , '' she continued , turning to them , her fine countenance animated with the feelings they had inspired , `` your friends must believe that I feel its beauty too much , ever to violate its sanctity . '' 
Miss Marion obeyed the impulse of her warm heart and took Gertrude 's hand . 
`` We are friends for ever , '' she said , `` and Randolph is in love , literally at first sight . '' 
`` Do not , my dear Emilie , '' she continued , `` stare as if we had all of a sudden fallen to talking Greek -- do n't ask , even with your eyes , for an explanation . 
When they reached the flat rocks at the bottom of the steps , Gertrude was affected by the recollection of the scene she had witmessed when last there . 
The circumstances of Gertrude 's introduction to Miss Marion , enabled them to dispense with the usual preliminaries to acquaintance . 
Miss Marion did not speak of Emilie , and Gertrude dared not intimate that her destiny was already fixed . 
Gertrude interrupted Miss Marion to ask if she knew the gentleman who had just descended the steps , and who after a keen glance at them , eagerly surveyed the only traversable path . 
`` I think I have seen him before , '' she said , after a moment 's consideration . 
`` Oh , yes , that dog I recollect perfectly . '' 
But it was not -- Triton came safe to land , and while he was shaking a shower from his pretty sides , and receiving his master 's caresses , Gertrude anxiously demanded of Miss Marion if she knew the gentleman 's name . 
The only foreigner Gertrude thought of , at that moment , certainly seemed to her to belong to the class of spoilers . 
Though Emilie had told her , Pedrillo did not look like a Spaniard , yet Gertrude 's imagination had pictured him with dark eyes ; with a face of more shade than light , and in every shadow lurking some deep mystery or bad design . 
The gentleman had large and very light blue eyes , and a fair , clear complexion , though rather deepening to the hue of the bon vivant , and Gertrude thought at first sight , -LRB- for we would put in a saving clause for her sagacity , -RRB- had rather an open , agreeable expression . 
`` What does your practised eye , '' she asked Miss Marion , `` see of the foreigner in that gentleman ? '' 
`` But these are indications to the gifted eye , '' said Gertrude . 
This was all American , and Gertrude began to think her companion 's sagacity was at fault ; but in the next breath , he spoke of the falls of the Clyde , of Tivoli , and Schuff hausen , as if equally familiar with them . 
Brief as their interview had been , Gertrude was satisfied that Miss Marion was right in her conjectures , and instinctively as she shrunk from it , she believed that she ought to rejoice in Pedrillo 's arrival . 
But even her deep interest in her friend was driven from Gertrude 's mind , at repassing the rocks on which she had suffered with Seton the agonies of deadly fear and despair -- some gentler remembrances beamed athwart her mind . 
He stood partly concealed by a cluster of dwarfbeeches , his face half averted from them , but still they could see that his brow was contracted , his lips compressed , and his eye eagerly fixed on some object ; and instantly Gertrude perceived that object was Emilie , and she felt assured the stranger was Pedrillo . 
Gertrude and Miss Marion perceived , that one more step , and her fate was inevitable ; and in the same breath , they uttered a shriek of terror . 
Randolph , only , was silent ; almost petrified by the immediate presence of the danger of which he saw the full extent without a hope to rescue her . 
cried Augusta Marion , who , with Gertrude , had attained the platform , and was standing there , both most agitated witnesses of the whole scene . 
But Randolph would not heed her ; and Gertrude , with a firmness that was a guardian angel in all exigencies , followed Marion saying , `` I am sure I can give your brother assistance -- I am used to these rocks -- be calm , Miss Marion , and do not look at us . '' 
But what was her suffering to that of the father , who stood on the verge of the cliff and saw Gertrude , she in whom all his affections and every hope were concentrated , voluntarily place her life in peril ; and that peril , to his view , aggravated by the distance and depth below him . 
Marion , closely followed by Gertrude , soon reached the extremity of the ledge . 
His eye turned to Gertrude . 
`` Be calm , '' she replied , `` we can save her -- I am sure of it -- only be firm . 
Emilie -- Emilie , '' she added , in an almost cheerful voice , `` be resolute for one minute more , and you will be safe . '' 
Gertrude did not venture to raise her eye to her . 
With the inspiration of heroic courage and devotion , she bent her whole mind to the action . 
`` You see , '' she said to Marion , taking her hands from the rock and standing upright with a careless freedom of attitude , `` you see I have ample space for my feet . 
`` You '' -- she continued , depressing her voice to the lowest audible tone -- `` you have a narrow , precarious foot-hold ; but by grasping my hand you may secure your balance . 
Gertrude 's self-possession and intrepidity inspirited Marion . 
`` We can save her , '' he exclaimed , if she will let us . 
Do you speak to her -- I can not . '' 
`` My dear Emilie , '' she said , `` the danger is already past , if you will think so . 
The poor girl felt already the inspiration of hope . 
She did as she was directed , and as she turned her face towards them , they perceived she was much less frightfully pale and agitated . 
Marion gave one hand to Gertrude , and extending the other , `` place your feet , '' he said , `` Emilie in my hand . 
`` Do not draw back , Emilie , '' cried Gertrude and Marion in one breath -- `` do not draw back -- fear nothing -- keep hold of the twigs till your feet are firmly placed . '' 
Gertrude had passed the platform , and gone to meet her father , whom she saw approaching . 
In his arms she was now folded , receiving all the expression he could give to his joy , and pride , and gratitude , and love . 
Gertrude was relieved from a vain attempt to compose her spirits , by an urgent request from Mrs. Layton that she would come to her room . 
Flattering as they were , they awakened a passing query in Gertrude 's mind why the pleasure that was so fervent had been so long deferred . 
`` My precious Gertrude , '' began Mrs. Layton , after the first greetings were over , `` you may have some faint idea how much I have suffered for the last ten days , from the fact of my not being able to see you . 
If I were at liberty I should open my heart to you , Gertrude , of all persons in the world ; but you already know enough from my poor Em ' to imagine my relief from having the evil day put off . '' 
`` Thank Heaven , '' exclaimed Gertrude , `` it is then put off . '' 
`` Of course -- Pedrillo is unable to move -- what a frightful predicament poor Em ' was in , on those rocks ; and she tells me , you behaved so sweetly , Gertrude . 
Gertrude inferred from the light tone , in which Mrs. Layton spoke of the affair , that she was not at all aware of Emilie 's hair-breadth escape , and she described the frightfulness of her danger , Pedrillo 's attention to his own safety , and Marion 's devotion to the single object of Emilie 's preservation . 
It will make small difference to her , who enacts the hero -- she is not like you and me , Gertrude ; she never will suffer the sad , sad experience of a heart of sensibility , its cravings , its yearnings , its unbounded desires , its vain regrets -- No , no , Emilie 's life will flow on , as the scripture has it , like still waters in green pastures . '' 
Gertrude shrunk from expressing her maiden meditations , on this subject . 
You agree with me , at least you feel with me , Gertrude ? '' 
Gertrude , a sentimentis so necessary to us ; so much is it , as has been said , the ` history of a woman 's life , ' that , shut up , as you have been , at Clarenceville , with this ` man of feeling , ' I am amazed you have escaped something more serious than a passing tendresse . 
The ladies proceeded together to the parlor , and there learned , to Gertrude 's mortification , and Mrs. Layton 's well concealed satisfaction , that the Marions had taken their final departure from the ` rural resort , ' half an hour before . 
Pedrillo was on a sofa in the parlor , when the ladies entered ; and while Gertrude was reading her note , he and Mrs. Layton were carrying on a subdued , but impassioned conference ; the result of which was a request from Mrs. Layton , that Miss Clarence would do her the favour to request Emilie , provided she found her awake and sufficiently recovered , to make her appearance in the parlor . 
Gertrude found her friend , neither sleeping , nor recovered ; but sitting in a most disconsolate attitude , bending over an open letter , which she had drenched with her tears . 
`` Oh , Gertrude ! 
she said , `` look at this -- is it not cruel ? '' 
Gertrude quite forgot the errand on which she had come to Emilie , in her efforts to console her . 
I did not know till now -- indeed , Gertrude , I did not , that I loved Randolph . 
Even on that dreadful rock , Gertrude , I felt that I had rather be swallowed up in the abyss than be saved by Pedrillo , when Randolph was so near to me , and yet I did not know thatwas love . 
but what reason is there , Gertrude , to hope this detested marriage may never take place ? '' 
`` Never -- never , Gertrude . 
Mama has reasons that she does not tell me . 
Gertrude was well aware that Mrs. Layton would not wish Emilie to show herself to Pedrillo in her present state of mind , and after ministering all possible consolations to her , she undertook to make her apology to her mother . 
In this state of affairs Mrs. Laytou felt her position to be rather awkward , and she and Emilie , after a tender parting with Gertrude , took their departure for New York . 
Mr. Clarence and Gertrude were still detained at Trenton for some weeks . 
It was full of expressions of gratitude and tenderness to Mr. Clarence and Gertrude ; but it was most afflicting to see that those sentiments , whose essence seems to be happiness , were so transmuted in his distempered mind , that sweet fountains distilled bitter waters . 
His family connections knew nothing of him , and Mr. Clarence and Gertrude were driven to the horrible conclusion that he had committed the last act of despair . 
We ought to state , that Gertrude after the disappearance of Seton , communicated to her father the story of the eventful night at Trenton . 
We will not say that she was quite as confidential to him as we have been to our readers , but she was as much so as could reasonably be expected ; that is , she communicated the leading facts , which bore about the same proportion to the emotions they had elicited , as a little fire does to the volume of smoke that evolves from it . 
Gertrude replied to her father 's interrogatory , `` I have not seen Mr. Roscoe . '' 
you are ruining the lock of that work-box . '' 
`` Mr. Roscoe does not , I believe , visit here now , '' she replied ; `` Mrs. Layton says he has some coolness with her husband . '' 
Gertrude checked the remonstrance that rose to her lips , and merely said , `` At least , I beg you will say nothing to Gerald Roscoe of my having been the person whom he met at Trenton . '' 
Gertrude mistook in supposing that Mrs. Roscoe had not called on her . 
Eager to see and to pay every respect to the daughter of her friend , she went to Mrs. Layton 's on the very first day of Gertrude 's arrival . 
The note was sent , but mislaid at Mrs. Layton 's , and never reached Gertrude . 
Two days after she again called , was told Miss Clarence was at home , and was shown into the parlor , and announced to Miss Layton , who was receiving morning company . 
Gertrude , of course , never returned the visits , and Mrs. Roscoe did not repeat them . 
`` Good morning , my dear girls , '' said Mrs. Layton , entering Miss Clarence ' apartment , `` you see , Gertrude , I do not consider you in the light of a stranger . 
`` I assure you I have no such juvenile intentions , '' replied Gertrude , `` I have business out this morning . '' 
But your business , Gertrude , what is it ? '' 
But , dear Gertrude , you must not expect to find these people where you left them seven years ago ; half the inhabitants of our city , move every May-day . '' 
`` There is certainly something novel in this enterprise of yours , Gertrude . 
Gertrude gave Mrs. Layton her list . 
Thus instructed , Gertrude left Mrs. Layton , and was in the parlor , awaiting the carriage , when a short , snug looking little gentleman , with an erect attitude , and that lofty bearing of the head by which short men endeavour to indemnify themselves for the stinted kindness of nature , entered the apartment . 
Mr. Flint handed Miss Clarence into it , and when there , and before Gertrude could frame a polite negative to his request that he might have the honor of attending her , he seated himself beside her , and asked where he should order the coachman to drive . 
`` To Fountain 's , '' she replied , resolving she would drop her companion there . 
He described all the fashionable amusements -- all the stars of the ascendant , and all as his familiars -- promised to introduce this and that gentleman to her , persons of whom she had often heard , though never of Mr. D. Flint -- discussed the last play -- volunteered to send her the last new novel -- offered to go to this place with her , and that place for her , and , in short , before they reached Fountain 's , he had fairly woven himself into the woof and warp of her futurlty . 
At that critical moment , Gertrude 's eye fell on Roscoe . 
The name with which Mrs. Brown was most familiar , revived her memory -- she welcomed Gertrude heartily ; and Brown suspended his stitches to say he was glad to see her , and to inquire after her father . 
`` Better lost than saved , '' muttered Brown , in so low a voice , that Gertrude did not distinctly hear him . 
`` Your son is living , I trust ? '' 
The mother sighed , and Gertrude essayed to turn the conversation into a more agreeable channel . 
`` You have a very fine house here , Mrs. Brown , '' she said . 
`` Our neighbours have not got no better , I guess -- you took notice of the parlors , Miss Clarence -- you see we have not spared nothing -- but , mercy 's sake ! '' 
she added , lowering her voice , `` what good does it do us , so long as Stevy is as he is ? '' 
After listening to Mrs. Brown 's details , Gertrude , anxious to pour oil into the mother 's wounds , replied in her kindest voice , `` Oh , Mrs. Brown , most young men , with Stephen 's expectations , are wild and idle -- prodigal sons for a little while ; but they come home to their father 's house at last -- and no doubt poor Stephen will . '' 
I tell himso , '' and she glanced her eye towards her husband , and taking advantage of his being slightly deaf , and her back towards him , she proceeded to pour her griefs into Gertrude 's ear . 
exclaimed Gertrude , `` did he say that ? '' 
`` He has not forgotten him , though , '' replied Gertrude , in the same discreetly low voice which the mother used ; `` do you keep up a secret intercourse with your son ? '' 
Gertrude rose to take leave . 
Gertrude , obeying the impulse of that sweet and generous nature , that made her estimate the affections of every human creature , however sordid and mean , as too precious to be contemned , advanced to the table on which Brown was still seated , and resting her hands on it , she looked at him with an animated expression of appeal and intercession , that seemed to confound and overpower his senses ; for he covered his face with his hands ; `` Oh , bring your son home again , Mr. Brown -- try him once more -- forgive the past . '' 
said Brown , letting fall his hands , and looking piercingly at Gertrude . 
Gertrude could hardly forbear a smile at Brown 's suspicion of sinister influence . 
Gertrude saw the point was gained . 
The old woman who had been over-powered with emotions of surprise , and joy , and gratitude , now felt them all merged in admiration of Gertrude , which she expressed in a mode peculiarly feminine . 
Mingled with the pleasure of having been the instrument of good to others , there was , in Gertrude 's bosom , a sweet , and cherished sentiment of sympathy with Roscoe , arising from that best and truest of all magnetism , correspondent virtue . 
We say she cherished this feeling -- she did so , in spite of a very vigorous resolution to expel it ; for she knew that as Miss Clarence she was as yet , to him an object of indifference , bordering on dislike ; and she dreaded lest any favorable impressions he might have received at Trenton falls , should be effaced as soon as he identified the stranger he met there , with the heiress of Clarenceville . 
Mrs. Stanley was issuing from her door , as Gertrude entered it . 
She expressed a sincere pleasure at seeing her , but her politeness soon became constrained , and her relief was manifest , when Gertrude rose to take leave , and inquired for a direction to Mrs. Booth 's . 
asked Gertrude , glancing her eye at a person who stood opposite to her , with a long weed depending from his hat , and dangling on his shoulder , to which he seemed to have committed the task of mourning , while he was absorbed in magnifying the value of the article under the hammer , by certain flourishing notes and comments , `` A capital time-piece , ma'am -- given to poor Mrs. Hall by her late father . 
Gertrude , who well knew that the prefix of ` poor ' is , in common parlance , equivalent to deceased , was smiling at the ` afflicted ' husband 's tender allusions to his departed consort , when Mrs. Stanley again touched her arm . 
`` Yes -- no -- yes , '' answered Gertrude , betraying in her contradictory replies , as well as in the instant flushing of her cheek , the emotions excited by thus accidentally encountering Gerald Roscoe 's eye . 
Gertrude made no reply . 
Gertrude , conscious of her burning cheek , and afraid her companion might observe it , was relieved by the reverting of her attention to the sales . 
He had left the place where he stood , and as Gertrude thought , might possibly be making his way to her , ` I can never encounter a meeting and explanation in this odious auction-room , ' she thought , and , determining to avoid it by a sudden retreat , she was making a hurried apology and adieu to Mrs. Stanley , when that lady recollecting herself , exclaimed , `` My dear ! 
`` Oh , then , '' said Gertrude , appalled by the idea of hearing her name screamed where she most particularly wished it should not be spoken at all , `` Oh , then , some other time -- I entreat , Mrs. Stanley . '' 
But before the protest reached the lady 's mind , she had forced her way to Mrs. Booth , taken Gertrude 's arm , pronounced her name , and returned to the table . 
At this moment Roscoe had penetrated through the crowd , and , unperceived by Gertrude , stood a little behind her , but near enough to hear whatever might pass between her and Mrs. Booth . 
Gertrude could not explain that she had no right to answer for more than one of the parties named , and she merely bowed and smiled as complacently as she could . 
Gertrude most definitively shook her head . 
Gertrude deliberated for a moment whether she should rectify his mistake , or whether she should prolong , while accident befriended her , the mystery in which accident had enveloped her . 
`` It is certainly a place of disenchantment , '' said Gertrude ; and anxious to give the conversation a new direction , she continued , `` I came here with a lady whom I had invested with the charms that memory gives to those who are associated with our earliest pleasures . 
She took me , for the first time , with the companion of my childhood '' -- a shade passed over Gertrude 's expressive face at this allusion to her brother , and suggested to Roscoe the identity of this tenderly remembered companion with the hero of the Trenton adventure . 
exclaimed Gertrude , `` we can hardly wonder at those philosophers who have treated our race as a subject for contempt and ridicule , rather than of admiration and hope . 
But I perceive , '' she continued , misinterpreting Roscoe 's smile , `` that I am making myself very ridiculous -- a prosing , reflecting recluse is quite out of place in this assembly . 
At this moment Miss Clarence observed a woman who stood near the auctioneer look curiously alternately at her and at the picture , then whisper something to the person next her , who after doing the same thing , nodded affirmatively to her companion , and said so emphatically that Gertrude comprehended the motion of her lips , ` striking indeed ! ' 
The moon just risen above the eastern cliffs , tipped the crests of the trees with its silvery light , played on the torrent that foamed and wreathed in its smiles , and concentrated its rays on the figure of Gertrude , who appeared kneeling on the rocks , just without the dark line of shadow , that veiled the western shore . 
There were no other figures in the picture , but imagination instantly supplied them ; and it seemed to Roscoe , that he again stood on those rocks -- again saw Seton unclose his eyes , and Gertrude raise hers to Heaven , with the fervent expression of a beatified spirit . 
exclaimed Gertrude , involuntarily , then laid her hand imploringly on Roscoe 's arm , then conscious every eye was turned towards her , she shrunk from his side , and disappeared . 
Roscoe 's eye was rivetted to her retreating figure , but instantly recovering his self-possession , he assumed the air of an ordinary bidder , and called out to the auctioneer , `` fifty dollars . '' 
Estimating her personal charms , more humbly than any one else would have done , Gertrude esteemed the portrait , a lover 's apotheosis of his mistress . 
She had penetrated the crowded passage , and reached the outer door , when it occurred to her , that she might possibly obtain some clue to Seton , by ascertaining from the auctioneer how the picture came into his hands ; and she turned to retrace her way to the parlor , but she was daunted by perceiving that her undecided movements were observed by those who had noticed her flushed and agitated countenance , as she had hurried through the entry ; and naturally interpreting others by her own consciousness , she believed the resemblance of the picture had been generally detected ; and she felt herself at the mercy of whatever conjectures and inferences the vulgar and curious might make . 
More than ever embarrassed , she turned again towards the door , got into the carriage , and obeying a sudden impulse , ordered the coachman to drive to No . 
How much Gertrude 's desire to see Roscoe 's mother -- the woman of all her sex , she most desired to know , influenced her in selecting the mode of searching out Seton , we leave to those to determine , who are skillful in unravelling the intricate web of human motives . 
The landlady who admitted her , went to summon Mrs. Roscoe , and Gertrude was left to her own meditations . 
` This then , she thought , ` is the abode of the Roscoes -- what a change , from the sumptuous style in which they once lived ! 
and yet it does not differ much from the picture my imagination has drawn , for here are the indications of taste , and refinement , and intellectual occupation . 
While Gertrude was eagerly gathering a little history from these particulars , the mistress of the house returned . 
Gertrude wondered that a lady whose punctuality was so exact , should be so dilatory on this occasion . 
Her impatience arose from the fear that Roscoe might return before she should get away . 
`` Perhaps , '' she said , rising with the intention of going , `` perhaps Mrs. Roscoe is particularly engaged . '' 
It 's nothing disagreeable , '' she continued , observing Gertrude 's countenance change , `` I never saw two persons look happier . 
`` I will not disturb them , then , '' said Gertrude , moving towards the door . 
Gertrude heard their footsteps descending the stairs : to retreat without being seen was impossible -- to remain calmly where she was seemed to Gertrude quite as much so . 
Gertrude , unconscious what she did , took up a book . 
`` My John 's Spanish grammar , '' said the landlady , anxious to fill up the awkward chasm , and having the liberal communicativeness natural to persons of her order , who have rather a sympathetic turn of mind , she proceeded , `` Mrs. Roscoe is giving my son lessons in Spanish . 
asked Miss Clarence , hardly knowing what she said . 
asked Gertrude , who was sustaining her part in the conversation with about as much interest as a person does while sitting in a dentist 's chair , awaiting the coming of that dreaded executioner . 
Gertrude would have inquired , for her curiosity was now thoroughly awakened . 
But again she heard approaching footsteps . 
The loudest , firmest step was , however , evidently retreating , and she breathed more freely -- the door was half opened , and she heard Roscoe , who was leaving the house , turn back and say , `` Oh , I forgot to ask you if you went to see Miss Clarence this morning ? '' 
The blush of alarmed and conflicting feelings was still on Gertrude 's cheek . 
She was in the presence of the woman who of all others she most wished to please , and she was nearly deprived of the faculties of speech and motion . 
Gertrude was somewhat re-assured , made a bold effort , and remarked that ` it was unusually cold . ' 
Gertrude abandoned that ground , and observed that our climate , was inconstant . 
Mrs. Roscoe rung for more coal , begged Gertrude to draw nearer to the fire , and exhausted all the little resources of politeness . 
Fortunately Gertrude in removing her chair , knocked down the Spanish grammar , and now recovering in some degree the possession of her mind , she made a graceful allusion to what the landlady had said of Mrs. Roscoe 's occupations . 
The ice was now broken , and never did a little boat set free more gladly bound over the waves , than Gertrude skimmed over the light topics that followed , till she was checked by the very natural thought , that there was no propriety in deferring to announce her business . 
Mrs. Roscoe interpreted the embarrassed pause in the conversation ; she saw that Gertrude 's was the diffidence of excited sensibility , not of gaucherie , and skilfully extending the aid of a leading question , she said , `` There is perhaps a misunderstanding . 
`` Yes , indeed I did , '' said Gertrude , recovering herself , `` but Mrs. Roscoe must blame herself if the pleasure of seeing her has put every thing else out of my head ; I ought not to have forgotten that I had no pretence for my intrusion but business . 
I met Mr. Gerald Roscoe '' -- there may be those who having felt similar emotions at pronouncing simply a name , will pardon Gertrude for faltering at `` Roscoe , '' for the deep mortifying crimson that overspread her face , and for the tremulous tone in which she blundered through the simplest sentence possible -- `` I met Mr. Gerald Roscoe at an auction this morning '' -- she would have proceeded to speak of the picture , but the words and the blush were enough -- Mrs. Roscoe interrupted her , took her hand , and said , her eyes beaming with animation , `` I understand all -- I have the pleasure of seeing the lady of Trenton Falls . 
My son has already told me of his fortunate meeting with you this morning , and of his '' -- `` His bidding on a picture for me , '' said Gertrude , eagerly putting this interpretation on a wish she had implied by laying her hand on Roscoe 's arm . 
exclaimed Gertrude , her cheek suddenly losing its heightened color , and becoming as pale as marble , `` did he see him ? '' 
Gertrude rose to take leave ; Mrs. Roscoe laid her hand on Gertrude 's arm , `` My young friend , '' she said , `` we must not part strangers -- strangers we are not ; but I have as yet thought of you as a vision with which my imagination only could be familiar . 
`` Oh , no , I can not , indeed , '' Gertrude replied , in a manner so flurried that it was evident Mrs. Roscoe had suggested the strongest motive for her instant departure . 
`` Then , '' said Mrs. Roscoe , detaining the hand Gertrude had extended to her , `` at least give me your name ; we should know a lady who moves in daylight , and carries a card-case , by a less romantic designation than ` the lady of Trenton Falls . '' ' 
This rational request placed Gertrude 's incognita in a very ridiculous light , and feeling that it did so , she opened her card-case ; but recollecting that the step she had taken , though quite proper for a stranger , was awkward for Miss Clarence , and recollecting too that she had been neglected , shunned , and , as she believed , contemned by both mother and son , she reverted to her first decision , and closing the card-case , said , `` Pardon me , Mrs. Roscoe , my name , unhappily , would dispel the little interest which it has been my good fortune to excite , and for which , mortifying as the confession is , I know I am indebted to the accident of a trifling mystery . 
She then departed , leaving Mrs. Roscoe in a half pleasing , half painful state of uncertainty , but with a positive unqualified interest in Gertrude , and sympathy with Gerald . 
`` I have measured and weighed every circumstance , '' she said , after having related the particulars of Gertrude 's visit to her son , `` and I can hit on no solution more rational than the first that occurred to me . 
Meanwhile Gertrude , whose perseverance in her mystery , we by no means approve , nor would hold forth as a possible precedent for any of our young friends , was congratulating herself on her success , little dreaming of the suspicions to which she had made herself liable . 
The visit had been as interesting to her as a voyage of discovery . 
Every thing she had seen and heard at Mrs. Roscoe 's had tended to confirm her favorable impressions of that lady . 
Gertrude inquired of her messenger if any questions had been put to him . 
`` No ; the gentleman had given him the note without speaking one word ; '' and Gertrude , ashamed that she had for a moment suspected Roscoe 's interest or curiosity might overcome his delicacy , retired to her room , locked her door , and closed her blinds , before she read the note . 
Gertrude 's solicitude for Seton was rather augmented than abated by this communication . 
It was evident that Roscoe knew more particulars of Seton 's suffering than he imparted , and she was left to conjecture , but not to exceed in her most distressful imaginings , the real truth . 
The main subject of Roscoe 's letter did not so utterly engross her but that she scanned every word . 
` There is nothing in it , ' thought she , after having thoroughly weighed it -- ` nothing more than bare curiosity -- and why should I expect to find any thing else ? 
Gertrude was yet to learn that expectations arise unbidden and unauthorized -- that duty can not control or guide our subtle thoughts . 
asked Gertrude 's maid , who entered , and interrupted and put to flight her sweet meditations . 
The important decision between the rival colours was soon made , and Gertrude joined a brilliant musical party in the drawing-room . 
Miss Clarencehad now been long enough in town , to get fairly started in the career of fashionable life . 
She had been visited by the haut tonof the city ; and was already besieged by half a score of aspirants for her matrimonial favor . 
Gertrude was amazed at what would have startled a novice only , the ease with which a lady of fashionable notoriety can doff the prescriptive delicacy of her sex , and force her way to a commanding station , with a boldness that would better become a military chieftain . 
Gertrude had taken an unambitious seat behind Mrs. Layton . 
The lights were soon after all extinguished to give full effect to the transparencies , and directly two gentlemen took an unoccupied place before Gertrude . 
The one , she recognised by his voice to be Flint , who had left his party to speak , as he said , ` to a member of Congress -- a particular friend , ' and the other was Gerald Roscoe . 
The gentlemen were as sincere as she had been in their wish to give their attention to the lecturer , but it was impossible ; the fairer part of the audience had taken advantage of the entertainment being chiefly addressed to the eye , and were indulging in whispered tête-à-têtes . 
Roscoe replied , in the words of an old ballad , Gertrude smiled , she could not help it , at the ridiculous light in which Roscoe had placed her ; but a captive at the stake would have had no reason to envy her , delicate as she was almost to fastidiousness , while she heard her market value so coarsely set forth by Flint , and her father , who was embalmed in her heart in the sanctity of filial love , spoken of as the ` old man , ' whose projects , health , and life were of value only as enhancing , or diminishing her chances of wealth -- and this to Roscoe too . 
Gertrude felt for the first time the full force of a sentiment that she had almost unconsciously cherished . 
` Is it not possible , ' thought Gertrude , ` to escape this introduction , -- I can not -- I will not become at once in his eyes this detested ` prize-lady ' -- what an odious term ! 
A candle was lighted at his lamp , and Gertrude saw Emilie supported , almost carried in Randolph Marion 's arms , and followed by Pedrillo and her mother . 
Flint sprang forward with his usual alacrity to offer assistance ; Gertrude lost every other consideration in her interest for her friend , and would have window ' -- , but she heard Mrs. Layton say , `` It is merely the heat of the room -- come with us , Mr. Flint -- Major Daisy stays for Miss Clarence -- run forward , Mr. Flint , and see if there is a carriage at the door -- if not , get one . '' 
Gertrude secretly wished that the senses too had suspended their ministry , that her ear had been deaf to those sounds that seemed now to paralyze the organs of speech . 
`` It aids one materially in hearing , to listen , '' replied Gertrude . 
The lecture was evidently drawing to a close , and Gertrude heartily wished that , like Cinderella , she had some good fairy at hand to assist her departure ; and Roscoe secretly exulted that now at least she could not disappear without affording him some clue by which to ascertain her name -- all that seemed to him unknown . 
`` Have you forgotten , '' asked Gertrude , referring to an expression in Roscoe 's note , `` have you forgotten your voluntary ` covenant with your lips ? '' ' 
`` Not my displeasure -- exactly , '' she said -- and ` not my displeasure at all , ' spoke the sweet smile that beamed from her lips ; but now the candles were re-lighted , and she perceived Major Daisy eagerly making his way through the crowd to her . 
Yet there was so marked a propriety and delicacy in Gertrude 's deportment , that it seemed ridiculous to doubt her . 
He racked his brain to conjecture what she could have meant by alleging that he had that very evening given ` her new reason for her mystery . ' 
` She might , ' he thought , ` have overheard my discussion with Flint ; but I said nothing dishonorable to her sex -- or any individual of the blessed community but poor Miss Clarence . 
`` Oh , Gertrude , '' she said , `` how could you go to bed without coming to see me ? '' 
Emilie checked herself and added , `` I have not been asleep -- I can not sleep -- but I will not disturb you Gertrude . 
She knelt beside Gertrude , and laid her face on her friend 's bosom . 
Nothing could be more exquisite than her figure at this moment , as the moonlight fell on it . 
Her flowing night-dress set off the symmetry of her nymph-like form ; her hair , parted with a careless grace , lay on her brow in massy waving folds ; her cheeks were flushed with recent agitation , and her eyes , the ministers of her soul , revealed its sadness . 
Her attitude seemed to solicit pity , and Gertrude , full of the quick-stirring sympathies of youth and ardent feeling , obeyed their impulse . 
`` Come into my bed , Emilie , '' she said , `` and lie in my arms , and pour out your heart to me as to second self . 
Mama has charged me so often not to say any thing to you on a certain subject -- but I never promised her -- do you think it was wrong , to let you Gertrude , who are such a true friend to us all , to let you know what was in my mind ? '' 
`` Did you see that , Gertrude ? 
Gertrude , I forgot where I was -- I thought of nothing but that Randolph still loved me . 
My price is paid , Gertrude -- my mother has told me so . '' 
Gertrude started up . 
`` Your price , Emilie ! '' 
`` It is not money alone , '' replied Emilie , in a tone that proved she had not caught a ray of hope from the animated voice of her friend , `` there is some dreadful mystery , Gertrude , mama does not understand it , but ruin -- absolute , hopeless ruin , awaits us all if this marriage is not accomplished . 
Oh , I could have laid down my life -- I could have sold myself to slavery , but to marry a man I so detest -- and fear -- and Randolph still loving me -- but you can not help me , my noble , generous Gertrude -- there is no help for me . '' 
`` I do not despair , Emilie , '' replied Gertrude , to whose strong and resolute mind no obstacle seemed insuperable , when her friends ' preservation was the object to be obtained ; `` I do not despair -- there is a limit to parental rights -- you do not owe and you must not yield a passive and destructive obedience to the authority of your parents . 
`` When I listen to you , Gertrude , it seems possible . '' 
`` At any rate , '' said Gertrude , after a little consideration , `` there will be time enough for me to receive a letter from my father . 
Emilie did not comprehend what her friend meant to do , or could do ; but she seemed to repose tranquilly on her promise , and like a vine that has drooped till its delicate tendrils caught a support , she clung to Gertrude in secure dependence , and soon fell asleep as quiet as a child in the sanctuary of its mother 's arms . 
The next morning as Gertrude was indulging the children , and herself no less than the children , in a game of romps in the nursery , she received a summons to Mrs. Layton 's apartment . 
She found that lady reclining on her sofa , her window-curtains so arranged as to admit only a flattering twilight . 
A new novel , a new poem , bouquets of fresh flowers , and half a dozen notes on perfumed and colored paper , lay on the table before her . 
She was reading an ode to childhood , and her eyes were suffused with the tears which the poet 's imagination had called forth . 
Before Gertrude had closed the door , the children , disappointed at being so suddenly deprived of their favorite pleasure , came shouting after her . 
Listen to it , Gertrude , for thought addressed to me , it has been studiously adapted to your ear . '' 
Gertrude , love plays strange things with chronology -- Morley is full five and forty , which I take to be half a lustre in advance of your father ; but allons ! 
`` Nothing could be less explicit than Gertrude 's words ; nothing more so , than her eager , penetrating look . 
Gertrude , with abated , not extinguished hope , wrote the note , and despatched it to Morley . 
Mr. D.Flint , translated to the sublimated region of sentiment ; what a triumph for you , Gertrude ! 
Gertrude , you are welcome to your lovers , while I have Roscoe . 
Gertrude did blush , but it was at her private interpretation of Roscoe 's sentimental mood . 
`` Heaven preserve us , Gertrude ! 
exclaimed Mrs. Layton , as she opened the box ; `` ah , Gertrude , the advantages of fortune are countless -- you can indulge yourself in these luxuries to any extent . '' 
She gave the money to the girl , who was re-folding and replacing the articles she had first lain aside , `` Stop , I keep those , she said , and turning to Gertrude , added , in a half whisper , `` they are for Emilie -- you know it is indispensable she should be prepared for a certain occasion -- what shallI do about them ? '' 
Gertrude felt embarrassed ; she perceived Mrs. Layton expected she would offer to relieve her from her dilemma , in the obvious way , by advancing the money ; but this she was resolved not to do , and she replied coldly , `` I really can not advise you . '' 
exclaimed Gertrude , starting up and losing all her assumed coldness , `` do not , I beseech you , do that -- allow me to pay for the articles . '' 
Gertrude flew to her apartment , returned with her purse , paid the amount , and the girl withdrew . 
Gertrude would have withdrawn too , but Mrs. Layton , who had completely recovered her self-possession , said , `` you must not leave me , dear Gertrude , till you have forgiven me for my momentary displeasure ; I misunderstood you , but there is nothing that so shocks my feelings , as the appearance of selfishness . '' 
There was something almost ludicrous to Gertrude , in the sudden bouleversementof her ideas occasioned by this speech . 
She had , after a hundred broken promises to Justine , her maid , to whom she owed a much larger sum , told her , not two hours before , that she had twenty-five dollars ready for her ; and she now felt all the mortification -- not of failing to perform her contract , to such trifles she was accustomed -- but of an exposure before Gertrude , and while the Gabriélle lay as a mute witness before her . 
She was even frank , so far as frankness consisted in gracefully confessing faults that could not be concealed ; but those that are grossly deficient in one virtue , will not be found martyrs to another , and rather than it should appear to Gertrude , that she had given for the Gabriélle the very money due and promised to Justine , she said , though with evident confusion , `` Your daughter mistakes , my good woman , I told her I would have the money for her to-morrow morning . '' 
`` Allow me to lend you the twenty-five dollars , Mrs. Layton , '' said Gertrude . 
She had not before noticed Gertrude . 
She now courtesied low to her , and , in the excess of her gratitude , kissed her hands ; and looking at her again , she seemed struck with some new emotion , and murmured and repeated , `` it is -- it is -- it must be -- for the love of Heaven , my young lady , let me speak with you alone ! '' 
Gertrude , at an utter loss to conjecture the reason of this sudden and mysterious interest , accompanied the old woman into the entry . 
The hat and cloak were brought , and Gertrude , feeling much like a person groping in utter darkness , accompanied her conductor to a miserable little dwelling , at the upper extremity of Elm-street . 
Gertrude ` sconductor had hurried on in advance of her , partly as it seemed to preserve a respectful distance , and partly to avoid any communication with her . 
When she was within her humble dwelling , she mounted to the second story , and winding her way through a dark narrow passage to the extremity of a back building , she reached a door , at which she stopped for a moment , then placing her finger on her lips , in token of silence , she signed to Miss Clarence to await her , opened the door , and disappeared . 
Gertrude heard a low murmur within , but nothing to afford her a clue to the old woman 's purpose . 
` If I am brought here , ' she thought , ` to be moved to charity by an extraordinary spectacle of wretchedness , why this secresy ? 
At the same time , the old woman , in explanation of the part she had acted , held up before Gertrude the picture of Trenton-falls . 
Gertrude sprang forward , exclaiming `` Louis Seton ! '' 
She stood beside him , pressed his pale , emaciated hand to her lips , and expressed in her asking eye , what her tongue could not utter . 
At the first sight of Gertrude , a faint color overspread his brow and temples ; his lips trembled , and his bosom heaved , he very soon however recovered his composure , and said , `` do not weep my dear friend , but rather rejoice with me . '' 
echoed Gertrude , for that was the only word that had made a distinct impression on her sense ; dying ! 
`` She is right , Gertrude , I am dying , but do not let that grieve you ; death is to me , the happiest circumstance of my existence ; '' then turning to the old woman , he added , `` Marie , I have nothing to forgive this lady ; she has been an angel of mercy to me . '' 
`` Oh Louis , '' said Gertrude , `` why have you let us remain in such cruel ignorance of your condition ; you have not surely ever for a moment , doubted my father 's sincere affection for you -- or mine ? '' 
`` No , Gertrude , never . '' 
`` Yes , I well knew there was nothing too much to expect from you , and your noble-minded father ; but I have been sick , and diseased in mind , Gertrude . '' 
I could not bear to be to you , Gertrude , like the veiled skeletons at the feasts of the Egyptians , for ever presenting before you gloomy images , and calling up sad thoughts . '' 
`` Louis pressed her hand to his lips . 
`` I was wrong , '' he said ; `` I underrated the generosity of your affection , and I grossly magnified my own miseries , but it 's all past now ; you will forgive me , Gertrude ? '' 
There was a singular contrast and change , in both Gertrude and Seton . 
He was collected and serene , as if he had already touched the shore of eternal peace . 
But after a little while , she regained her usual ascendancy over her emotions , and ashamed that she had for a moment disturbed his holy peace , she sat down beside him , and listened with tolerable composure , to his relation of the particulars of his life , since they parted . 
There was much , of which you were ignorant , Gertrude , that aggravated my malady before we left Clarenceville for Trenton . 
`` I repeat this to you , Gertrude , because it is my only apology for having yielded to a sickly sensibility , compounded of physical weakness , pride , and humility . '' 
`` The cause was innocent , and the suffering is past , Gertrude -- therefore listen patiently . 
Gertrude , do not avert your face . 
It abode with me in darkness , in solitude , in misery -- in madness , Gertrude . '' 
Oh , Gertrude , is it not strange that men rioting in luxuries , and still more strange that those who are blessed with quiet homes of health and happiness , should permit their brethren suffering under the visitation of the severest of physical evils , to languish in the receptacles of poverty -- in the dungeons allotted to crime ? '' 
Gertrude answered this appeal by a solemn resolution , which she afterwards religiously performed , to make a rich offering to an unequivocal and neglected form of charity . 
Seton proceeded : `` Gertrude , the person whose name I have since ascertained to be Roscoe , again appeared to rescue me from a more dreadful fate than that from which he saved me at Trenton . 
Seton paused , and Gertrude , released from the intense attention she had given , covered her face and wept without restraint . 
Her bitter grief for all Seton had endured , was mingled with a feeling very different but scarcely less affecting -- a feeling that Heaven had linked her sympathies with Roscoe 's , had mysteriously interwoven the chain of their purposes , and feelings . 
She felt keenly too , the delicacy which Roscoe had manifested in withholding from her the particulars of Seton 's sufferings , and of his generous part in ministering to his relief . 
`` Gertrude , '' resumed Seton , in a voice of the deepest tenderness , `` I can not mistake this emotion -- you know Roscoe -- it is as it should be -- '' She started as if the secrets of her inmost heart had been revealed . 
She cleared her voice , and made an effort to speak , for she could not permit such an inference from her emotion . 
Seton laid his hand on hers , `` I ask no explanation -- no communication , Gertrude . '' 
The engrossing passion that had absorbed my faculties , was gone -- no , not gone , Gertrude , but converted to a peaceful , rational sentiment , that accords with happiness and is immortal in its nature -- a sentiment as distinct from the passion that had agitated my being , as the elements are in their natural and gentle ministry from their wildest strife and desolation . 
The operations of the spirit are so mysterious , the modes of its communication with the Divinity so incomprehensible , that I shrink from attempting to communicate , even to you , Gertrude , the convictions of my own mind . 
`` But why , why , '' asked Gertrude , `` have you not written to us ? '' 
Gertrude assigned her father 's absence from Clarenceville as the cause of Seton 's receiving no replies to his letters ; and then , but not without an obvious effort , she asked , ` why he had not communicated his wants to Roscoe ? ' 
But , truly , Gertrude , I have wanted little ; a mortal sickness admits but few alleviations . 
My attendant has been kind , and what she could not provide for me , I have been satisfied without . '' 
Nature had put forth her mysterious force -- Gertrude 's presence soothed and stimulated him , and Seton was sustained through his narrative by an energy of feeling that seemed to hold death in abeyance . 
He had not spoken continuously , but with frequent and fearful interruptions , and as his voice died away in the conclusion , and his eyes became fixed in an eager , soul-piercing gaze , Gertrude , who had never before seen a human being in extremity , was appalled with the infalliable tokens of approaching death . 
Seton laid her hand on his heart -- `` it beats feebly , '' he said , `` my life is fast passing away ; '' and added , with an expression of some concern , `` do you fear to stay alone with me , Gertrude ? '' 
`` No -- no Louis ! '' 
she replied , subduing her natural shrinkings , `` I have no fear -- no wish , but to remain with you . '' 
said Seton , with a smile of sweet serenity , `` my last wish is gratified -- your presence , Gertrude , makes my dismissal happier . '' 
Gertrude 's spirit rose with his . 
There was something affecting and elevating in her disregard of the circumstances of death -- so appalling to the young and inexperienced -- in her tender manifestations of sacred sympathy with the departing spirit . 
The old woman beckoned Gertrude to the door . 
`` He is changing fast , '' she said , and participating to a very old and general superstition , she added , `` He will go with the turn of the tide : will you not have some one called ? 
Gertrude , though not without some natural reluctancy , would not permit it to interfere with the wish Seton had expressed , and she again assured Marie that she preferred no person should be summoned -- and Marie , sorely against her own judgment , assented ; but as she descended the stairs , meditating on the singular boldness of the young lady , she was summoned to the street-door by a loud knocking . 
Seton was too far gone , Gertrude too deeply absorbed , to observe him . 
As the last ray faded away , he lifted his eye to Gertrude , and said with perfect distinctness , `` My last moment is bright too , Gertrude . '' 
Gertrude rested it on her bosom . 
-- Gertrude remained motionless , bending over the vacant form . 
The outward world vanished from before her . 
It seemed to her that the veil was lifted that envelopes the unknown world , and that she touched its blissful shore with the released spirit . 
Gertrude turned at the sound of her voice , and for the first time perceived Gerald Roscoe . 
The sight of him excited no selfish emotion . 
Her feelings were now all in one channel , and he appeared to her only as Seton 's friend and benefactor . 
She advanced , gave him her hand frankly , and expressed her sorrow that he had not come sooner , and her warm unmeasured gratitude for his generous kindness to Seton . 
Gertrude had never before met Roscoe without a degree of embarrassment that imparted to her manners a slight shade of constraint ; but now , under the influence of deep and strongly excited sensibility , she forgot all that was of peculiar interest in their relation to each other , and talked to him with the freedom of intimate friendship . 
The occasion gave a tenderness to her manner , and her raised feelings an eloquence to her expressions , that penetrated Roscoe 's heart . 
She did not , as on every former occasion , studiously avoid any allusion to herself , nor measure her phrases as if she were beset with rocks and quicksands . 
She spoke of her affection for Seton as if he had been her brother , and only veiled a part of the truth when she imputed the disease of his mind , entirely to a morbid sensibility preying on a delicate frame . 
Roscoe perceived that Gertrude was off her guard , and seemed utterly to have forgotten the secret she had so sedulously kept . 
He gazed at Gertrude with a far deeper interest than he had ever before felt ; he listened with thrilling interest to all she said , yet that impertinent query , ` who can she be ? ' 
But Marie approached Gertrude , who was silently gazing on Seton , with the last yearnings of affection , and addressed her , according to her usual custom , in the third person -- `` a carriage was waiting for the lady , '' she said , `` and here was a note from the mistress . '' 
The note was from Mrs. Layton , in reply to a line Gertrude had sent , explaining her detention . 
`` My sweetest Gertrude , '' said the note , `` I send a `` carriage for you -- you must indeed come home -- `` you are exposing yourself to too severe a trial -- `` I should have come immediately to you , but my `` feelings unfit me for scenes . 
repeated Gertrude to herself , ` an ostentatious funeral would be a mockery to him who so shunned the world 's eye while living . ' 
`` Mr. Seton , '' she said , turning to Roseoe , `` was as you well know , a total stranger in the city . 
I am reluctant to leave the last rites to hirelings ; and if you , Mr. Roscoe -- '' Roscoe interrupted her faltering request , with an assurance that she had only anticipated him -- that he should make every necessary arrangement , and should feel himself happy in being permitted to render the last tribute of humanity to her friend . 
Gertrude expressed her gratitude for all he had done , and for all he promised to do , with so much warmth and gracefulness that Roscoe felt he had given no equivalent for such thanks from such a source ; and yet he thought , if she does feel obliged to me , there is a boon withheld , which would requite them a thousandfold . ' 
But this boon was not even hinted at , and Gertrude had actually left the apartment , and was in the carriage on her way home , before the question occurred to her , and then it struck her like an electric flash , whether she had betrayed her name . 
She reviewed all that had passed ; she tried to recall every word , but that she was not able to satisfy herself , is the best proof of the engrossing emotions Seton 's death had excited . 
Mrs. Layton , conscious that she had fallen in Gertrude 's esteem , and ambitious to regain the admiration that had been so flattering to her , exerted with fresh resolution all her powers of fascination . 
She adapted herself with nice tact to the current of Gertrude 's feelings -- was serious , sympathetic , and sentimental , but it would not all do . 
Gertrude had waked from her dream , and imagination could not repeat its illusions . 
The qualities that had captivated her had vanished in smoke , like the body of the Arabian magician , and Gertrude 's incredulity in the reality of that which had once deceived her , was not , like the fisherman 's , affected . 
When Mrs. Layton complained of her destiny , and lamented that she had no adequate object to employ her faculties and fill the void in her heart , Gertrude thought of her neglected children . 
` If her conjugal happiness is blasted , ' she said , ` can a motherwant objects to elicit her noblest faculties , and her tenderest affections ? ' 
As an intimate intercourse brought their minds into close comparison , Gertrude perceived they were not , on any subject , attuned to the same key . 
In poetry , Mrs. Layton preferred that which addressed the passions ; Gertrude , that which touched the affections . 
Gertrude loved all the poets -- the glorious company -- but she preferred the touching simplicity , the penetrating tenderness of Burns , and the perfect yet poetic fidelity of our own Bryant , the mirror of nature , that like a serene lake , gives back the image of the delicate floweret and the lofty tree , as clearly defined , as soft and beautiful as their originals in the ethereal atmosphere . 
Gertrude 's soul was thrilled by them , but she preferred Miss Edgeworth -- preferred the beneficent genius who has made the actual social world better and happier , to her who by a motion of her wand could create an imaginative world , and disclose a possible , but unattainable beauty . 
Gertrude preferred Rebecca -- she who conquered , to her who was the victim of love . 
Mrs. Layton 's sensibility was the fruit of a highly cultivated imagination ; Gertrude 's , the instinct of a generous heart . 
Gertrude 's was moved by natural impulses , and flowed from an ever-living fountain . 
`` My dear Gertrude , '' said she , one particularly bright morning , `` I can not consent to your and Emilie 's immuring yourselves any longer . 
`` We are your subjects , and owe you passive obedience , '' replied Gertrude , who as soon as she perceived her liability to excite curiosity , determinto avoid it . 
`` You are a dear , reasonable creature , Gertrude , and I wish I had made my request sooner , for really I have been tormented to death with Pedrillo 's impatience , -LRB- poor fellow ! 
it 's no wonder , it will not do for Em ' to dilly dally much longer , -RRB- -- and Layton , too , has been in the worst possible humor -- by the way he left a note for you this morning -- some one of your honorable suitors has probably chosen him for mediator '' -- she rung the bell , and ordered the servant to bring Miss Clarence a note from Mr. Layton 's dressing-room table . 
Gertrude hesitated for a moment . 
She habitually regarded her fortune , like the other gifts of Providence , as a sacred trust , to be applied to the best uses , and she could not appropriate so considerable a sum without being somewhat disturbed by the belief that it was to be applied to an idle or profligate purpose . 
Mrs. Layton who , though she had not chosen to appear so , was really aware of the contents of the note , watched the expression of Gertrude 's countenance , and put her own interpretation on it . 
` Oh , ' thought she , ` how unlike poor me ! 
If I had her wealth , I should not give a second thought to so pitiful a sum ! 
Gertrude hesitated but a moment . 
` I can not refuse , ' thought she , ` while a guest in his house , ' and thus quieting her conscience , she signed a check for the amount , and enclosed it in a note to Layton . 
Gertrude , we dolive in a ` bank-note world , ' and happy are they who have enough of this mundane trash -- But come , my dearest , finish your toilet -- thank Heaven , you as well as myself , look the better for its tender mercies -- but Emilie -- it is too provoking -- she has just tucked her wavy locks behind her ears , and she looks like the beau-ideal of painting , or like `` The forms that wove in Fancy 's loom , Float in light visions round the poet 's head . '' 
It was but a word -- but Gertrude thought a word spoken in such a tone of feeling and remonstrance , should have pierced the mother 's heart . 
Gertrude kissed her . 
`` This fair round cheek was made for smiles , not tears , and , '' she added , glancing her eye at Mrs. Layton , and speaking with an energy not at all agreeable to that lady , `` God forbid she should be doomed to them ! '' 
Gertrude smiled -- she could not help it -- at the revolution that must have occurred , since Miss Patty could have resembled the figure of her friend ; as pale , certainly , and as beautiful as the most exquisite statue . 
`` But the game is not finished , and the tables may turn , '' said Gertrude , with an emphasis that sounded like a celestial prophecy to Emilie ; like treason to her mother , and very like envy to Miss Patty . 
`` That is not hardly fair , Miss Gertrude , '' she said , `` you have brought Emilie 's color into her cheeks , with the bare thoughts of it . 
Pedrillo entered ; and while he , on the score of not having seen Emilie for a week , was raising her reluctant hand to his lips , Miss Patty continued to Gertrude , her handkerchief before her face , and in a depressed tone -- `` the handsomest man I have seen since the evacuation ! 
`` No , I was not aware of it , '' replied Gertrude , with seeming simplicity . 
Mr. Morley , who had entered , bowed rather coolly to the compliment , and then said to Mrs. Layton , though his eye turned most significantly to Gertrude , that he had just received a letter from Washington , announcing Mr. Randolph Marion 's appointment . 
Gertrude dared not look at Emilie , but she expressed her own pleasure in the most animated terms . 
`` I would trample on impossibilities at your bidding , Miss Mayo , but -- '' The rest of the sentence was intercepted by an exclamation from Flint -- `` I declare , there 's my friend Roscoe ; I promised , ten days ago , Miss Clarence , to introduce him to you , '' and before Gertrude could interpose a word , he darted off to force his patronage on Roscoe . 
Gertrude sat at some distance from Mrs. Layton ; her satellites , Morley and Daisy , stood before her . 
Gertrude 's alarm was augmented by this exclamation . 
She made no reply , but kept her eyes rivetted to the floor . 
`` Indeed I am not , '' said Gertrude , summoning all her energy to shelter and suppress a momentary weakness , and stimulated by the danger of exposing to Roscoe , an emotion as flattering to him , as humbling to herself ; `` indeed I am not in the least faint , I never fainted in my life -- pray close that window . 
` What odious details , ' thought Gertrude , shrinking from the exposure of these particulars ; and with a feeling of a doubtful shade , between spirit and temper , she replied , `` you must really , Mr. Flint , allow me to judge of my own sensations . '' 
She was nerved by the courageous sound of her own voice , and she ventured to cast one rapid glance around the room in quest of Roscoe . 
` Had he seen her ? ' 
`` Miss Patty 's vision , I should imagine , was too imperfect for the dim light of obscured fortunes , '' said Gertrude in an under voice to Miss Mayo . 
replied Miss Clarence , who had caught from Miss Mayo , some interest in the success of Mrs. Spencer 's party , `` I shall certainly go , provided '' -- `` Provided Mrs. Layton goes , '' said that lady ; anticipating Miss Clarence ' conclusion , `` assuredly , my dear Gertrude , we shall all say ` ditto to-Mr . 
What is so tiresome , Gertrude , as morning visits ? '' 
`` Miséricorde , Gertrude ! 
Gertrude had too clear a head to be confounded by a simile . 
`` Then certainly , '' she replied , `` it should not pass without any impression . 
`` This is all very sage and very virtuous , Gertrude ; but really , my dear friend , when you know a little more of the world as it is , you will relinquish the beau-ideal of a world as it should be . 
Gertrude smiled at the ridiculous light in which Mrs. Layton had placed her suggestion ; and she smiled , and sighed too , as she -LRB- assenting to it -RRB- mentally repeated Moilere 's couplet . 
`` My dear Gertrude , is that sigh heaved for your poor friend , or for the wicked world at large ? 
`` You smile , Gertrude , and well you may , for it is very odd that any thing can make me happy , even for a moment ; but I feel this morning as if , in spite of fate , there were some good in store for me . '' 
Gertrude , far from repressing , cherished , and strengthened the happy presentiments of Emilie 's innocent mind . 
`` Emilie , '' said Gertrude , `` is not Marion , now that he has it in his power to secure to you independence , is he not bound as a true knight -- a truelove , to ascertain how far you consider your obligations to Pedrillo sacred ? 
`` He has had no opportunity to do so -- perhaps , Gertrude , you do not think Randolph still cares for me ? '' 
-- do speak , Gertrude . '' 
`` I will not , dear Gertrude -- I will obey you in every thing . 
How could he have any hope , when he knows I am to be married , and so soon , to Mr. Pedrillo -- how can there possibly , '' she added , relapsing into her tone of despondency -- `` how can there possibly be any hope ? '' 
`` Oh Emilie , ` if he dare not hope , he does not love ; ' but here we are coming to the place where I saw the beautiful engraving I promised your mother . '' 
`` My dear Miss Clarence , '' he whispered to Gertrude , `` allow me five minutes conversation with Miss Layton . '' 
`` There are some new songs , Emilie , '' said Gertrude , adroitly favoring the request ; `` you may look them over , while I am selecting the prints ; '' and passing into the inner room , she endeavored to monopolize the attention of the only clerk in waiting . 
The words escaped Gertrude 's ear , but the murmuring sounds were as intelligible as the most expressive notes of a tender song . 
` Their loves must not be thwarted , ' she thought , as she wiped the gathering tears from her eyes , ` they shall have all my efforts -- all my thoughts ! ' 
Ah , Gertrude , why that sudden flush ? 
The shop-door had again been opened , and Gertrude , dreading some impertinent interruption , had turned her eye fearfully to Emilie . 
Gertrude had never appeared so interesting to Roscoe , as at this moment . 
All their other meetings had occurred when her feelings were strongly excited ; but the exciting cause was obviously independent of him . 
He now perceived -- no , not perceived , but hoped -- faintly hoped it may be , for he had not a particle of coxcombry , but he did distinctly hope that her too visible emotion , proceeded from a sentiment responding to that which had most insidiously interwoven itself in his affections and anticipations . 
True love , even when far more assured than Roscoe 's , is always unpresuming , and never had he addressed her in so reserved and deferential a manner , as at this moment . 
` He certainly knows me ' -- thought she -- ` it is just as I expected -- what an utter change ! ' 
But Roscoe had not seen her at Mrs. Layton 's -- had not yet identified the lady of his thoughts , with the shunned heiress -- the elect of his heart , nameless and unknown , with the daughter of his benefactor and friend . 
Gertrude was at the moment , listening to a criticism of Roscoe , on a fine engraving of Guido 's Sybil , and looking him full in the face . 
`` You need not trouble yourself to make out a bill , '' replied Gertrude ; `` just give me the amount . '' 
`` At this stage of our acquaintance , '' replied Gertrude , in the same tone of raillery in which he had spoken , `` I am too much pleased with the success of my riddle , voluntarily to tell it ; and I assure you I shall tax my ingenuity to co-operate with kind chance . 
Gertrude hesitated for a moment in her reply . 
`` I withdraw that condition , '' she said ; `` if we meet again , I permit you to ask what questions you please -- but not now , '' she added , shrinking from the awkward moment of disclosure . 
Gertrude received certain intimations from her throbbing heart , that they were dwelling too long on a too interesting topic , and she rather abruptly turned the conversation to some new prints lying on the counter . 
Here were fertile themes of conversation , and Roscoe , for the first time , had an opportunity of eliciting the various knowledge with which Gertrude 's mind was enriched . 
Gertrude was however aware of the propriety of withdrawing , and she looked anxiously at Emilie , who was still bending over the music with Marion , as if they were conning a lesson together . 
`` Yes , the lady is my companion , '' replied Gertrude , secretly rejoicing that Emilie was so concealed by the large cloak and hood in which she was muffled , that Roscoe had not recognised her ; `` I must remind her that it is quite time for us to go . '' 
Gertrude was really anxious to hear the celebrated preacher in quession , and was probably more influenced than she was herself aware of , by the desire to remain near to Roscoe ; and going up to Emilie , she whispered , cautioned her not to prolong her stay imprudently , said she had a little farther to go , and that she would leave the carriage for her , and walk home herself . 
Emilie readily assented to any arrangement to protract a pleasure that might never be repeated , and Gertrude and Roscoe proceeded to the chapel , which they found filled to overflowing . 
One and another gave way a little , a very little , at Roscoe 's approach ; so that after a few moments of patient perseverance , Gertrude found herself at the entrance of the middle-aisle . 
The first face she recognised , the first eye she encountered , were those of our ubiquitousfriend Flint . 
He nodded familiarly to her . 
The man offered his services , and Gertrude accepted , simply from the consciousness , that the precise place she occupied , was just at that moment , the most attractive in the world ; and Roscoe saw her conducted away from him , with the same sort of vexed disappointment , with which a lover awakes from his dreams , at the moment , when after infinite pains , he has secured proximity to his mistress . 
It was not because Gertrude 's religious sentiments did not precisely accord with the preacher 's , that he failed to interest her . 
She was not one of those cold and conceited listeners , who criticise when they should feel . 
Her affections could warm at another 's altar , though the fire there was not kindled by the same process that had lighted the sacred flame on her own ; and finally , if she was not moved by the popular preacher , it was not from the remotest similarity to the old woman who could only cry in her own parish . 
Gertrude suspected she knew her . 
` Can it be ! ' 
she thought -- she kept her eye steadfastly fixed on her . 
If Gertrude had been at a loss to recognise the beautiful hand thus exposed , she could not mistake the rich and rare rings , that identified Mrs. Layton 's . 
Gertrude 's first impulse was to press that hand in hers , in token of her sympathy with the gracious feelings awakened ; but she was checked by the studious concealment of Mrs. Layton 's attitude , and by the fear , that the consciousness of her observation might check the tide of religious thought , which she hoped , like a swollen torrent , would sweep away accumulated rubbish , and leave a fertilized and productive soil . 
But Gertrude 's benevolent hope had a frail foundation . 
Gertrude , in the simplicity of her heart , believed a moral renovation was begun , and already with the sanguine expectation of youth , was counting on its natural fruits , in the mother 's zealous co-operation in her daughter 's cause , when she was awakened from her reverie , by the close of the service . 
`` And it was from a letter of yours to his sister , Gertrude , which he says , she had not the heart to keep from him , that he learned the true state of the case , that I had never trifled with his feelings , that I was forced into this odious engagement , and that you believed I loved him -- you should not have told that , Gertrude ; however , it is past , and ca n't be helped now -- and that I should be miserable with Pedrillo -- that , I 'm sure you might say to any body . 
Heaven knows -- dear Gertrude ; bless you -- bless you for writing that letter . '' 
Gertrude shook her head , and said , with a gravity half-real , half-affected , `` I was afraid I was at the bottom of this mischief , but I have done what I could to repair it . '' 
`` Oh Gertrude ! '' 
`` Emilie did not quite comprehend the tone of Gertrude 's exclamation . 
I dare say you thought it was right , or you would not have done it ; and as you never was in love , dear Gertrude , you know , you can not possibly tell what a trial it is . '' 
Gertrude , not thinking an éclaircissementat this moment , very important , proceeded to ask Emilie ` if Marion had proposed any thing ? ' 
`` Yes , he has , he intreats me -- but perhaps , Gertrude , you will think it your duty to tell mama ? '' 
`` Emilie threw her arms around Gertrude 's neck , `` are you , Gertrude ? 
Gertrude looked in her eager face with a smile , and replied playfully in the words of the Scotch song : `` Come counsel , dear Tittie , do n't tarry , I 'll gie you my bonnie black hen , Gif ye will advise me to marry The lad I lo'e dearly '' -- Dear Emilie , that advice may yet come from my lips , as it springs from my heart at this moment . 
`` He never will -- never , Gertrude . '' 
However , I am perfectly aware such fastidiousness is out of place in relation to you , and though I am really oppressed and mortified by the necessity of asking '' -- `` I beg , Mr. Layton , '' replied Gertrude , compassionating his embarrassment , `` that you will consider my being your guest merely as a circumstance that gives me a facility in serving you . '' 
Gertrude hesitated for a moment ; but her plans and resolutions were formed , and not to be lightly shaken . 
`` I am awaiting , Mr. Layton , '' she replid , `` a letter from my father , which will contain some instructions in relation to my pecuniary concerns , and till I hear from him , I can not dispose of so large a sum . '' 
Though Layton did not quite lose his customary good-breeding , he spoke in a tone of bitter sarcasm that wounded Gertrude to the heart , for she utterly disdained every sordid consideration . 
He mentally accused Gertrude of parsimony , of miserliness , of utter insensibility to the soft charities of life ; but the current of his feelings was changed , when a moment after the door was thrown open , and Emilie rushed in and threw herself at his feet , exclaiming passionately , `` Oh , my dear father , pity me ! 
Gertrude sprang towards her -- `` My dear Emilie , '' she said , `` what does this mean ? '' 
There seemed to be a spell in Gertrude 's voice ; Emilie was hushed for a moment -- she turned her eyes to her friend with the most intense supplication , and then again bursting into heart-piercing cries , she said , `` No , no -- you can not help me . 
Gertrude -- this very week -- oh , I shall go wild . 
-- Gertrude , beg for me ! '' 
Gertrude burst into tears . 
`` For God 's sake , Mr. Layton , '' she cried , `` save your child from this cruel fate ! '' 
he exclaimed , gazing at Gertrude , as if he were surprised at her emotion -- `` do youfeel ? 
` Can I , ' thought Gertrude , ` look passively on this distressful conflict ? 
-- he would not be less willing to interpose than I am -- I will speak to the wretched man -- I will try ; ' and she was on the point of giving utterance to her purpose , when a servant appeared at the open door with a packet of letters . 
One was from her father . 
Gertrude did not condescend to notice this offensive speech . 
She replied with a little faltering , for she found it difficult to embody in words her long mediated project , `` Mr. Layton , my position in your family has given me a knowledge of your affairs , unsought for and most painful . '' 
`` No , not superfluous , '' she continued , with unabated gentleness , `` for the knowledge that Emilie 's happiness was in jeopardy , has inspired me with the hope to serve her . '' 
`` I waited only for a letter from my father , '' she proceeded , without seeming to hear him , `` it has come , and is what I expected . 
This is no time to make sacrifices to fastidiousness -- Emilie allow me to speak alone with your father . '' 
Mr. Layton gazed at Gertrude with an impatient expectation of remonstrance , but she spoke in a voice and with a look like an angel 's extending celestial aid to a mortal lost in a labyrinth . 
`` Mr. Layton , '' she said , `` there is no time , and this is no occasion for distrusts on your part , or delays on mine . 
`` My right , '' she replied , `` is indisputable , for rests on my affection for Emilie , and my hope to save you from an eternal sorrow by satisfying Pedrillo 's claims . '' 
`` No , '' returned Gertrude , with a smile , `` we money-dealers , Mr. Layton , are all calculators -- we require an equivalent for our money . 
`` I understand perfectly '' -- replied Gertrude , `` go on . '' 
He pressed his hands to his throbbing temples -- he paced the room , and replied only by incoherent ejaculations , to Gertrude 's entreaties , which were urged as if she were suing for her own happiness . 
` Will Gertrude Clarence do this for her friend , ' he thought , ` and shall not I run a risk -- sacrifice myself , if it must be , for my child?It is but the name of honor that I have to lose ! ' 
Layton felt assured it would not ; and without waiting to deliberate further , he poured out his honest thanks to Gertrude , and received the papers that placed at his disposal the price of Emilie 's liberty . 
Thus authorized to tell Emilie that she was mistress of her own destiny , Gertrude flew to her friend , her face radiant with the happiness she was to communicate . 
Delicious as Emilie 's sensations were , Gertrude 's was even a more elevated joy , for ` If there is a feeling to mortals given , That has less of earth in it than Heaven , ' it is that quiet inward joy , that springs from the consciousness of benevolent and successful efforts for others ; of efforts to which one is not impelled by any authorised claim , which the world does not demand , nor reward , nor can ever know -- which can have no motive , nor result in self . 
As soon as their spirits were sufficiently tranquilized , Emilie sat down to write a note to Marion , and Gertrude to read her letters . 
Those shorter , and of less consequence than her father 's we shall first present ; and our readers will confess , they were of a nature to bring down our heroine 's feelings to the level of verycommon life . 
-LRB- Er `` rors excepted , -RRB- your obedient servant to command , `` ma'am , Gertrude read Mr. Smith 's letter and threw it into the fire , but before it was consumed , she snatched it out , and preserved it as a happy illustration of the flattering honors , to which an heiress may be doomed . 
I was `` a little captious in relation to the Roscoes when I `` was in New York , and suffered certain trifling ir `` ritations to influence my feelings improperly , and `` I am afraid , my dear Gertrude , that you have che `` rished a resentment quite out of proportion to their `` offences , and inconsistent with your native gentle `` ness . 
Suffer me to `` say , that I think there was rather more pride than `` dignity in this procedure ; or was it rustic girlish `` ness , Gertrude ? 
Gertrude pondered over the above portion of her letter for at least half an hour , before she proceeded ; and then she gave rather a listless and undutiful attention to what followed . 
`` I thank you , my dear Gertrude , for transmitting `` to me your impressions , while they are fresh and `` unmodified by experience , of the society in `` which you are moving . 
`` But there are , my dear Gertrude , and I fear `` must be , sins and follies in every human condi `` tion . 
But New York has its cultivated and re `` fined minds -- its happy homes -- the most elevated `` objects of pursuit -- noble institutions -- expansive `` charities , and whatever gives diguity and effect to `` life : and have youforgotten , Gertrude , that , ` un `` meet nurse ' as it may be ` for poetic child , ' it is `` the residence of a triumvirate of poets that would `` illustrate any land ? 
The prevailing cast of the society `` which Mrs. Layton courts and attracts , is such as `` you describe ; but you must remember that the `` most exalted names in our land are occasionally `` found in the ranks of fashion , and I will not allow `` any society to be condemned en masse , where `` such persons are to be met , as Gerald Roscoe , `` Emilie Layton , and my Gertrude ! 
`` My beloved Gertrude , it was a noble inspiration , `` worthy of that heart that never yet ` affected emi `` nence nor wealth . ' 
`` My only regret will be , my dear Gertrude , that `` you , who have so just an estimate of property -- `` so fixed and operative a resolution to devote it to `` its noblest and most effective purposes , should `` transfer it to the hands of profligates and spend - `` thrifts . 
WhenLayton was left in the library by Gertrude , he had before him the necessary and difficult task of communicating to Pedrillo his final decision . 
As they entered the box the young ladies , undaunted by Daisy 's attempts at witty sarcasms , and Mrs. Layton 's piquant raillery , gave the old gentleman the place his son had occupied between them , and in spite of a whisper to Gertrude from Mrs. Layton , that she had best , en Minêrve , crown Duty ` sfather as Clairon crowned Voltaire , she and her friend persisted in rendering him all the respect that the reverence of youth and fashion could pay to honorable old age . 
She was writing the last sentences of Fate on embossed cards , which she purposed to place between ivory tablets and distribute as sybilline leaves , when Gertrude entered her apartment , and , after an involuntary tribute to the beautiful personification before her , asked leave , to Mrs. Layton 's utter amazement , to accompany her to the masquerade . 
`` Oh , no , Gertrude , you are not so green , thank Heaven , as to make a formal profession of principles on trifling occasions ; you only compel us to infer them from your actions . '' 
Mrs. Layton cast a penetrating glance at her , `` You talk riddles , Gertrude , but I have no time to read them now . 
`` Bless me , Gertrude , you speak con amore . 
I am a believer in love too , but not in love matches ; however , though I have not been consulted in the affair , I have no objection to the transfer of her engagement . 
Promise me , '' concluded Gertrude , kissing Mrs. Layton , with an affectionateness of manner that brought to that lady 's mind the first days of their intercourse , `` promise me that you will remember your motto to-morrow , ` Whatever is , is best . '' ' 
thought she , as Gertrude left her , ` by these dark intimations ? 
-- nothing , after all , I 'll answer for it -- poor thing , her imagination is so excited by this masquerade -- for a woman of her education she is surprisingly raw in some things -- she thinks , no doubt , she is about to commit a monstrous sin : what cowards women are made by such preciseness ! ' 
Gertrude , do you really expect to remain incognitia ? '' 
`` And , Gertrude , you are the unknown , l'inconnue mysterieuse , Count . '' 
`` No , it shall be read by our priestess , '' said the Sybil , taking the card from Roscoe 's hand , and placing it in Gertrude 's ; `` why does our votary thus gaze at us ? '' 
she continued , interpreting the confused and inquiring glance that Roscoe cast , first on Gertrude , then on herself ; `` is he offended by finding the Sybil attended by a priestness not found on classic records -- proceed , my priestess , there are few in this assembly who will detect the modern interpolation . '' 
Gertrude glanced her eye over the card , and read the sentence aloud , feeling as if her burning cheek might , even through her mask , betray her private interpretation . 
exclaimed the Sybil , `` the destinies have misdirected them , '' and snatching the card from Gertrude , she shuffled it in with the rest , and again elevating the tablets , she dispersed the leaves among the crowd , that , attracted by her conspicuous figure , and lofty pretensions , had gathered about her . 
Roscoe held up the tablet , before Gertrude 's eyes , which he had caught in the general scramble -- `` It is the same ! '' 
Gertrude 's heart was throbbing with the sweetest emotions , when a touch from Mrs. Layton , directed her attention to an object of sufficient interest to command her thoughts , even at that moment . 
`` He certainly looks like Pedrillo , '' replied Gertrude in a tremulous voice -- `` but can he be here ? 
-- not to translate it into Spanish , for I see that African princes , Indian chiefs , blind girls , deaf and dumb , all have a gift to read my prophetic words -- do aid me , Gertrude . '' 
`` My mistress commands me , Sir Knight , '' said Gertrude , `` to read aloud your fate . '' 
He gave her his card , first passing his finger emphatically across the last line , and she read as follows -- ` Dangers beset thee -- vengeance pursues thee -- blood is in thy path , Listen , stranger , to this prophecy of mine , but fear not , The blood 's another 's -- the victory is thine ! 
He resigned his position to one who produced as sudden a change in Gertrude , as if she had been transported from the north pole to the equator . 
Roscoe had lingered near Mrs. Layton , to avail himself of the permission , accorded by Gertrude in their last interview , and at the first instant he could obtain a private hearing , he said to her , `` Tell me , I entreat you , the name of the lady who personates your priestess . '' 
Roscoe assured her -- and she could not doubt it -- that he was serious ; but the Sybil was obstinate , and he , impatient of the spell , which he began to despair of ever breaking , left her and joined Gertrude . 
They would , in all simpleness , wonder what there was to cast so potent a spell over the scene , that it vanished from their senses -- what to make Gertrude 's cheeks burn , and her hands cold -- to make Roscoe 's heart throb in his manly bosom , and suffuse that eye whose lofty glance could thrill an assembly of his peers with tears as soft as ever trembled in a woman 's eye . 
Emilie was impatient to end the frightful scene -- `` Here is a shawl of Gertrude , papa , '' she said ; `` I am ready now . '' 
`` Gertrude Clarence ! 
While they are disencumbering themselves of every trace of the masquerade , and putting on their travelling cloaks , hats , & c. , previously provided -- while the carriage halts in one of the crossstreets leading to Powles Hook , and while four good steeds are being attached to it , we must return once more to the masquerade , and to Gertrude who , in obedience to the preconcerted signal of the dropped handkerchief , was hastening to follow her friend . 
Roscoe was still at Gertrude 's side . 
We have been compelled to repeated recession , and long as it may appear since we left him at that enviable station , the time seemed to him short as a blissful dream , when Gertrude said , `` Mr. Roscoe , I must put your generous faith to one more proof -- I promise it shall be the last . 
`` I do pardon you , '' she replied , taking it , `` though I perceive you are but half assured . '' 
-- there was a treacherous tremulousness in Gertrude 's voice . 
After pausing for an instant , she proceeded , `` You are unkind and unjust to me -- you have not claimed the performance of my promise . 
`` Yes , '' replied Gertrude , smiling ; `` an elopement -- of which I am a zealous aider and abettor , and an humble attendant of my principals to Virginia , our ultimate destination . '' 
Roscoe paused , and Gertrude was as anxious to pronounce the word that would dispel the mystery , as Roscoe could be to hear it ; but it seemed to her like the word of doom , and while it hovered unspoken on her trembling lips , Roscoe continued , I beseech you to end this tormenting suspense , which I flattered myself the chances of every day would terminate . 
Notwithstanding the intense interest with which Gertrude listened , and notwithstanding Roscoe 's earnest remonstrance , she had not slackened her speed ; and she now saw a carriage awaiting her at a few paces from her , and Marion , who had descried her , advancing hastily . 
They were already at the carriage-door -- Emilie had exclaimed joyfully , `` Oh Gertrude , you 've come ! '' 
Gertrude uttered that precious monosyllable , worth in some cases the whole English language besides , and sprang into the carriage , but not till Roscoe had pressed her hand to his lips , and breathed out a `` God bless you '' -- the shortest and best of all benedictions . 
She was pledged to Justine -- she had given her consent -- that she might retract ; but she had given her blessing -- that was an appeal to Heaven ; and according to her simple faith , as she afterwards expressed it to Gertrude , ` what was once sent up there , could not be taken back again . ' 
Gertrude 's heart , at this moment , clung to New York ; but she sacrificed unhesitatingly her own inclinations , and acquiesced cordially in his proposition . 
The ladies withdrew to their apartment , after first talking over their plan for the next day ; the probable hour of their arrival at Philadelphia ; and whether , as Marion urged , Emilie should permit him to lead her to the altar there , or as Emilie wished , and Gertrude counselled , the marriage should be deferred till their arrival at his mother 's . 
When Gertrude and Emilie were in their own room , they seated themselves to warm their feet , and curl their hair ; offices that heroines perform in common with baser metal . 
Gertrude had her own treasure of sweet recollections , and bright hopes , and for a moment she forgot there was any shade over Emilie 's destiny . 
said Gertrude , kissing her . 
`` Oh Gertrude , I have such a load at my heart ! '' 
`` I know it , Gertrude ; but when I am with Randolph , the present moment seems all enough and for me -- I do not think of any thing absent , or past , or to come . '' 
`` Forgive me , dearest Gertrude -- you are the very best friend in the world , and you whose friendship is so much stronger than any one 's else , when you come to feel what love is , then you will understand me -- I am sure I ca n't explain it . 
Only think , Gertrude , how gay she was ! 
how little she thought of what the morrow might bring to her ! 
Oh Gertrude , I know -- I know that evil and sorrow are before me -- Hark ! 
Emilie did not listen to Gertrude ; her head was advanced like a startled fawn 's -- her hand on Gertrude 's arm . 
`` There -- again -- hush -- low tinkling bells like Triton 's . '' 
She started to her feet -- `` It is Pedrillo ! '' 
screamed Gertrude , and springing to the door , she turned the key , and secured a momentary protection . 
At a step he mounted the stairs , and while he was standing beating against the door , Gertrude forced Emilie , who was nearly lifeless , into the inner room , and bade her turn the lock , which she had just time to do before Pedrillo burst into the apartment . 
he exclaimed ; and instantly he felt that his question was answered by Gertrude 's erect figure standing like a statue , as pale and as fixed , against the door of the inner apartment . 
Pedrillo was struck by her lofty glance and determined air . 
he cried , interrupting her with a scornful shout ; `` do you think me a child , or fool , to be resisted by a woman ! '' 
and holding her off with one arm , he thrust his shoulder against the door , and burst it open with a single effort . 
Gertrude received her lifeless form in her arms . 
you have killed her , '' she shrieked . 
Pedrillo laid his hand on her heart . 
His eye had met Gertrude 's -- had met her glance of tenderness , horror , and dread . 
She still supported Emilie in her arms , Emilie looking like a victim to be avenged , rather than a living creature to be saved . 
Gertrude 's eye fell , and she uttered a cry that pierced Roscoe 's soul . 
Again she looked , and Pedrillo too was disarmed , and they had grappled . 
shrieked Gertrude . 
She opened her eyes , gazed wildly around , clasped her arms around Gertrude 's neck , and hid her face on her bosom . 
Roscoe , as may be imagined , had not remained idly gazing on the dying man , while Gertrude needed his assistance . 
Roscoe had at once a foreboding of the real condition of Layton , which he intimated to Gertrude in a whisper , and then ordered one of the servants to attend him to his master 's apartment . 
`` We were to have had a private wedding -- Ger `` trude desired it , and I , particularly on account of `` my mourning ; but Mr. Clarence said there should `` be no sign of sadness on so joyful an occasion as the `` union of four loving and true hearts , and that the `` pleasure of a wedding festival to Gertrude 's country `` friends , was worth some sacrifice on our parts ; `` and so we consented -- could we help it ? 
`` Before we went into the drawing-room , we were `` all , -LRB- by all I mean Gertrude , and Mr. Roscoe , `` and his mother -- a celestial woman , Augusta -- `` and Randolph , and myself , -RRB- we were all in the li `` brary . 
Roscoe looked a little disconcerted ; `` but he soon recovered himself , and replied , in `` his own frank and pleasant manner , ` This gift , `` sir , ' and he kissed Gertrude 's hand , ` has exhaust `` ed my gratitude ; I can not even make a return of `` words for an inferior proof of your generosity . ' 
The children were merry and noisy , but `` the rest of the company were thoughtful -- they felt `` that the wedding was a prelude to parting with `` Gertrude ; and she is so beloved and honored `` here ! 
` Not a creature ever crossed your path , ' `` said one of her old friends to her , ` but was the `` better or the happier for it . ' 
I am no great `` writer , to be sure ; but if I were equal to you , or `` Gertrude , I could not find language to express `` what I feel for my husband . 
`` You do not yet know how much Gertrude has `` done for us . 
Gertrude wished her to take `` a small house , and devote herself to the education `` of my sisters . 
