In the bosom of her respectable family resided Camilla . 
Her father , the rector , was the younger son of the house of Tyrold . 
He caressed all the children with great fondness , and was much struck with the beauty of his three nieces , particularly with that of Camilla , Mr. Tyrold 's second daughter ; `` yet she is not , '' he cried , `` so pretty as her little sister Eugenia , nor much better than t ` other sister Lavinia ; and not one of the three is half so great a beauty as my little Indiana ; so I ca n't well make out what it is that 's so catching in her ; but there 's something in her little mouth that quite wins me ; though she looks as if she was half laughing at me too : which ca n't very well be , neither ; for I suppose , as yet , at least , she knows no more of books and studying than her uncle . 
Lionel , the little boy , casting a comic glance at Camilla , begged to know what his uncle meant by a sharper look out ? 
In some measure to atone for this , he resolved to collect himself a family in his own house ; and the young Camilla , whose dawning archness of expression had instinctively caught him , he now demanded of her parents , to come and reside with him and Indiana at Cleves ; `` for certainly , '' he said , `` for such a young little thing , she looks full of amusement . '' 
Camilla was , in secret , the fondest hope of her mother , though the rigour of her justice scarce permitted the partiality to beat even in her own breast . 
The tide of youthful glee flowed jocund from her heart , and the transparency of her fine blue veins almost shewed the velocity of its current . 
and the early felicity of her mind was without allay . 
It seemed certain such a residence would secure her an ample fortune ; the governess to whom Indiana was entrusted would take care of his little girl ; though removed from the hourly instructions , she would still be within reach of the general superintendance of her mother , into whose power he cast the uncontrolled liberty to reclaim her , if there started any occasion . 
Camilla 's a little jewel ; she jumps and skips about till she makes my eyes ache with looking after her , for fear of her breaking her neck . 
I must keep a sharp watch , or she 'll put poor Indiana 's nose quite out of joint , which God forbid . 
However , she 's the life of us all , for I 'm sorry to say it , but I think , my dear brother , poor Indiana promises to turn out rather dull . '' 
He still acknowledged that her beauty was the most complete ; but he found in Camilla a variety that was captivation . 
But her mind was soon empoisoned with a jealousy of more permanent seriousness ; in less than a month after the residence of Camilla at Cleves , Sir Hugh took the resolution of making her his heiress . 
Even Mr. Tyrold , notwithstanding his fondness for Camilla , remonstrated against a partiality so injurious to his nephew and niece , as well as to the rest of his family . 
And Mrs. Tyrold , though her secret heart subscribed , without wonder , to a predilection in favour of Camilla , was maternally disturbed for her other children , and felt her justice sensibly shocked at a blight so unmerited to the hopes cherished by Indiana and Clermont Lynmere : for though the fruits of this change of plan would be reaped by her little darling , they were robbed of all their sweetness to a mind so correct , by their undeserved bitterness towards the first expectants . 
Sir Hugh , however , was immoveable ; he would provide handsomely , he said , for Indiana and Clermont , by settling a thousand pounds a year between them ; and he would bequeath capital legacies amongst the rest of his nephews and nieces : but as to the bulk of his fortune , it should all go to Camilla ; for how else could he make her amends for having amused him ? 
Sir Hugh could keep nothing secret ; Camilla was soon informed of the riches she was destined to inherit ; and the servants , who now with added respect attended her , took frequent opportunities of impressing her with the expectation , by the favours they begged from her in reversion . 
Yet the continued repetition of requests soon made the idea of patronage familiar to her , and though wholly uninfected with one thought of power or consequence , she sometimes regaled her fancy with the presents she should make amongst her friends ; designing a coach for her mamma , that she might oftener go abroad ; an horse for her brother Lionel , which she knew to be his most passionate wish ; a new bureau , with a lock and key , for her eldest sister Lavinia ; innumerable trinkets for her cousin Indiana ; dolls and toys without end for her little sister Eugenia ; and a new library of new books , finely bound and gilt , for her papa . 
If an hint were surmised of her surviving her uncle , an impetuous shower of tears dampt all her gay schemes , deluged every airy castle , and shewed the instinctive gratitude which kindness can awaken , even in the unthinking period of earliest youth , in those bosoms it has ever the power to animate . 
Her ensuing birth-day , upon which she would enter her tenth year , was to announce to the adjoining country her uncle 's splendid plan in her favour . 
Her brother and sisters were invited to keep it with her at Cleves ; but Sir Hugh declined asking either her father or mother , that his own time , without restraint , might be dedicated to the promotion of her festivity ; he even requested of Miss Margland , that she would not appear that day , lest her presence should curb the children 's spirits . 
The gay little party , consisting of Lavinia , who was two years older , and Eugenia , who was two years younger and Camilla , with her beautiful cousin , who was exactly of her own age , her brother Lionel , who counted three years more , and Edgar Mandlebert , a ward of Mr. Tyrold 's , all assembled at Cleves upon this important occasion , at eight o'clock in the morning to breakfast . 
he cried , `` Camilla , my dear , do take away poor Doll , for fear I should let it slip . '' 
Camilla instantly decided for the airing , and without a differentient voice : so entirely had the extreme good humour of Sir Hugh won the hearts of the little party , that they felt as if the whole of their entertainment depended upon his presence . 
The carriage , therefore , was ordered for the baronet and his four neices , and Lionel and Edgar Mandlebert , at the request of Camilla , were gratified with horses . 
Camilla was desired to fix their route , and while she hesitated from the variety in her choice , Lionel proposed to Edgar that they should take a view of his house , park , and gardens , which were only three miles from Cleves . 
Their partiality , however , struggled vainly against that of Sir Hugh , who still , in every the most trivial particular , gave the preference to Camilla . 
The baronet had ordered that his own garden chair should follow him to young Mandlebert 's park , that he might take Camilla by his side , and go about the grounds without fatigue ; the rest were to walk . 
Here Indiana received again the homage of her two young beaus ; they pointed out to her the most beautiful prospects , they gathered her the fairest flowers , they loaded her with the best and ripest fruits . 
Why do n't you bring that best bunch of grapes to Camilla ? '' 
well , give it her then if you have . 
Sir Hugh gravely paused at these speeches , and regarded them in turn with much steadiness , as if settling their future destinies ; but ever unable to keep a single thought to himself , he presently burst forth aloud with his new mental arrangement , saying : `` Well , my dears , well ; this is not quite the thing I had taken a fancy to in my own private brain , but it 's all for the best , there 's no doubt ; though the estate being just in my neighbourhood , would have made it more suitable for Camilla ; I mean provided we could have bought , among us , the odd three miles between the Parks ; which how many acres they make , I ca n't pretend to say , without the proper calculation ; but if it was all joined , it would be the finest domain in the county , as far as I know to the contrary : nevertheless , my dear young Mr. Mandlebert , you have a right to choose for yourself ; for as to beauty , 't is mere fancy ; not but what Indiana has one or other the prettiest face I ever saw , though I think Camilla 's so much prettier ; I mean in point of winningness . 
They then all moved on ; but , soon after , Lionel , flying up to his uncle 's chair , informed Camilla he had just heard from the gardener , that only half a mile off , at Northwick , there was a fair , to which he begged she would ask to go . 
She found no difficulty in obliging him ; and Sir Hugh was incapable of hesitating at whatever she could desire . 
They all eagerly endeavoured to console her , Camilla fondly taking her hand , little Eugenia sympathetically crying over and kissing her , Indiana begging to know what was the matter , and Sir Hugh , holding out to her the finest peach from his stores for Camilla , and saying , `` Do n't cry so , my dear , do n't cry : take a little bit of peach ; I dare say you are not so bad as you think for . '' 
The weeping young penitent besought leave to get out of the coach with Camilla , to whom alone she could explain herself . 
Camilla almost opened the door herself , to hasten the discovery ; and the moment they had run up a bank by the road side , `` Tell me what it is , my dear Lavinia , '' she cried , `` and I am sure my uncle will do any thing in the world to help you . '' 
`` O Camilla , '' she answered , `` I have disobeyed mamma ! 
and I did not mean it in the least -- but I have forgot all her commands ! 
-- She charged me not to let Eugenia stir out from Cleves , because of the small pox -- and she has been already at Beech Park -- and now , how can I tell the poor little thing she must not go to the fair ? '' 
`` Do n't vex yourself about that , '' cried Camilla , kindly kissing the tears off her cheeks , `` for I will stay behind , and play with Eugenia myself , if my uncle will drive us back to Beech Park ; and then all the rest may go to the fair , and take us up again in the way home . '' 
With this expedient she flew to the coach , charging the two boys , who with great curiosity had ridden to the bank side , and listened to all that had passed , to comfort Lavinia . 
`` Lionel , '' cried Edgar , `` do you know , while Camilla was speaking so kindly to Lavinia , I thought she looked almost as pretty as your cousin ? '' 
Camilla , jumping into the carriage , threw her arms around the neck of her uncle , and whispered to him all that had passed . 
it 's just nothing , considering her young age . '' 
Camilla , terrified that she had begged this boon , requested that the servant might directly ride after him . 
Sir Hugh consented , but desired that Lavinia and Camilla might be also of the party . 
Edgar had the presence of mind to make Indiana and Camilla go directly to the carriage . 
Edgar , thus called upon , now first felt the abilities which his short life had not hitherto brought into use : he begged Sir Hugh would return immediately to Cleves , and keep Eugenia there for a few days with Camilla and her cousin ; while he undertook to go himself in search of Lionel , with whose assistance he would convey Lavinia back to Etherington , without seeing her little sister ; since she must now be as full of contagion as the poor object who had just had the disease . 
Sir Hugh , at the earnest intreaty of Camilla , invited the young party to come again early that morning , that some amends might be made them for their recent disappointment of the ball and supper , by a holiday , and a little sport , previous to the arrival of Mrs. Tyrold ; to whom he voluntarily pledged his word , that Eugenia should not again be taken abroad , nor suffered to appear before any strangers . 
Mr. Tyrold now also established himself at Cleves , to share the parental task of nursing the afflicted child , whose room he never left , except to give consolation to his unhappy brother , who lived wholly in his own apartment , refusing the sight even of Camilla , and calling himself a monster too wicked to look at any thing that was good ; though the affectionate little girl , pining at the exclusion , continually presented herself at his door . 
`` O my dear uncle , '' cried his long banished Camilla , who hearing him upon the stairs , skipt lightly after him , `` how glad . 
Here ended at once the just acquired tranquillity of Sir Hugh ; all his satisfaction forsook him at the appearance of his little darling ; he considered her as an innocent creature whom he was preparing to injure ; he could not bear to look at her ; his heart smote him in her favour ; his eyes filled with tears ; he was unable to go on , and with slow and trembling steps , he moved again towards his own room . 
cried Camilla , holding by his coat , and hanging upon his arm , `` wo n't you speak to me ? '' 
`` Yes , my dear , to be sure I will , '' he answered , endeavouring to hide his emotion , `` only not now ; so do n't follow me Camilla , for I 'm going to be remarkably busy ! '' 
she cried , plaintively , `` and I have not seen you so long ! 
`` My dear Camilla , '' he replied , with increased agitation , `` I have used you very ill ; I have been your worst enemy , which is the very reason I do n't care to see you ; so go away , I beg , for I am bad enough without all this . 
He then shut himself into his room , leaving Camilla drowned in tears at the outside of the door . 
Wretched in reflecting upon the shock and disappointment which the new disposition of his affairs must occasion her , he had not fortitude to inform her of his intention . 
He desired to speak with Edgar Mandlebert , who , with all the Tyrold family , resided , for the present , at Cleves , and abruptly related to him the new destination he had just vowed of his wealth ; beseeching that he would break it in the softest manner to his poor little favourite , assuring her she would be always the first in his love , though a point of mere conscience had forced him to make choice of another heiress . 
Indiana felt too much chagrined at her own part in this transaction , to give her attention to Camilla ; she murmured without scruple at the deprivation of what she had once expected for herself , and at another time for her brother ; and expressed much resentment at the behaviour of her uncle , mingled with something very near repining , not merely at his late preference of Camilla , but even at the recovery of the little Eugenia . 
He now pursued the weeping Camilla , who , dispersing her tears at his approach , pretended to be picking some lavender , and keeping her eyes stedfastly upon the bush , asked him if he would have any ? 
He took a sprig , but spoke to her in a voice of such involuntary compassion , that she soon lost her self-command , and the big drops again rolled fast down her cheeks . 
Extremely concerned , he strove gently to sooth her ; but the expressions of regret at her uncle 's avoidance , which then escaped her , soon convinced him his own task was still to be performed . 
Camilla , the moment she understood him , passionately clasped her hands , and exclaimed : `` O if that is all ! 
Edgar , delighted and relieved , thought she was grown a thousand times more beautiful than Indiana ; and eagerly taking her hand , ran with her to the apartment of the poor disconsolate Sir Hugh ; where his own eyes soon overflowed from tenderness and admiration , at the uncommon scene he witnessed , of the generous affection with which Camilla consoled the fond distress of her uncle , though springing from her own disappointment and loss . 
All remonstrance was ineffectual ; his conscience , he protested , could no other way be appeased ; his noble little Camilla had forgiven him her ill usage , and he could now bear to look at the change for the worse in Eugenia , without finding his heart-strings ready to burst at the sight . 
When the tumult of this affair subsided , Mr. Tyrold and his family prepared to re-establish themselves at Etherington ; and Mrs. Tyrold , the great inducement for the separation being over , was earnest to take home again the disinherited Camilla . 
Sir Hugh , whose pleasure in her sight was now embittered by regret and remorse , had not courage to make the smallest opposition ; yet he spent the day of her departure in groans and penitence . 
His late adventure , and his new heiress , now tormented him no more ; Indiana was forgotten , Camilla but little thought of , and his whole mind became exclusively occupied by this fruitful expedient for retrieving his lost time . 
Even the studious turn of Eugenia , hitherto his first delight , he now thought served but to render her unsociable ; and the time she devoted to study , he began to regret as lost to himself ; nor could he suggest any possible consolation for his drooping spirits , till it occurred to him that Camilla might again enliven him . 
This idea , and the order for his carriage , were the birth of the same moment ; and , upon entering the study of Mr. Tyrold , he abruptly exclaimed , `` My dear brother , I must have Camilla back ! 
Indiana says nothing to amuse me ; and Eugenia is so bookish , I might as well live with an old woman ; which God forbid I should object to , only I like Camilla better . '' 
Camilla was now just seventeen years of age , and attractively lovely ; but of a character that called for more attention to its developement than to its formation ; though of a disposition so engaging , that affection kept pace with watchfulness , and her fond parents knew as little for their own sakes as for her 's how to part with her . 
Her qualities had a power which , without consciousness how , or consideration why , governed her whole family . 
The airy thoughtlessness of her nature was a source of perpetual amusement ; and , if sometimes her vivacity raised a fear for her discretion , the innocence of her mind reassured them after every alarm . 
The interest which she excited served to render her the first object of the house ; it was just short of solicitude , yet kept it constantly alive . 
Her spirits were volatile , but her heart was tender ; her gaiety had a fascination ; her persuasion was irresistible . 
To give her now up to Sir Hugh , seemed to Mrs. Tyrold rather impossible than disagreeable ; but he was too urgent with his brother to be wholly refused . 
The gaiety , the spirit , the playful good humour of Camilla , had lost nothing of their charm by added years , though her understanding had been sedulously cultivated , and her principles modelled by the pure and practical tenets of her exemplary parents . 
Upon the visit of Camilla , Miss Margland grew yet more urgent , expecting through her powerful influence to gain her point . 
She strove , therefore , to engage her intercession , but Camilla , careless , easy , and gay , had no wish about the matter , and could not be brought into the cabal . 
No arguments , however , relative to disposing of the young ladies , had any weight with him ; he had long planned to give Eugenia to Clermont Lynmere , and he depended upon Edgar Mandlebert for Indiana , while with regard to Camilla , to keep her unmarried , that he might detain her under his own roof , was the favourite wish of his heart . 
being a thing I do n't much like , to be taken about to dances and shews , now that I am not a boy ; so then Camilla will be left to stay with me , for my own companion ; which I assure you I desire no better , though she knows no more , as the Doctor tells me , of the classics , than my old spaniel ; which , to give every one his due , is much the same with myself . '' 
From eagerness irrepressible , he began with Indiana , apologising when he had done , by saying it was only because she was oldest , having the advantage of three weeks over Camilla : `` For which , however , '' he added , `` I must beg pardon of Mrs. Margland and Dr. Orkborne , who , to be sure , must be pretty much older . '' 
He next presented him to Camilla ; and then , taking him apart , begged , in a whisper , that he would not seem to notice the ugliness of Eugenia , which , he said , was never mentioned in her hearing , by his particular order ; `` though , to be sure , '' he added , `` since that small-pox , she 's grown plain enough , in point of beauty , considering how pretty she was before . 
All parties felt his arrival as an acquisition : Indiana thought the hour of public exhibition , long promised by Miss Margland , at length fast approaching ; Camilla , who escaped all expectation for herself , from being informed of what was entertained by her cousin , enjoyed the tranquil pleasure of undesigning friendship , unchequered either by hope or fear ; Eugenia met with a respect for her acquirements that redoubled her ambition to increase them ; Sir Hugh looked forward with joy to the happy disposal of Indiana , and a blameless riddance of Miss Margland ; who , on her part , with an almost boundless satisfaction , saw her near return to a town life , from the high favour in which she stood with the supposed bride elect ; even Dr. Orkborne , though he disdained with so young a scholar to enter into much philological disquisition , was gratified by a presence which afforded a little relief to the stores of his burdened memory , from authorizing some occasional utterance of the learned recollections , which for many years had encumbered it without vent . 
Sir Hugh , though averse to all public places , consented to the plan , from the hope of accelerating the affair ; but declared , that if there was any amusement , his little Camilla should not be left out . 
Indiana had never yet looked so lovely ; Camilla , with all her attractions , was eclipsed ; and Eugenia could only have served as a foil , even to those who had no pretensions to beauty . 
Edgar , nevertheless , asked Camilla to dance with him ; she willingly , though not without wonder , consented . 
Lionel desired the hand of his fair cousin ; but Indiana , self-destined to Edgar , whose address to Camilla , she had not heard , made him no answer , and ran on to present herself to her uncle ; who , struck with admiration as he beheld her , cried `` Indiana , my dear , you really look prettier than I could even have guessed ; and yet I always knew there was no fault to be found with the outside ; nor indeed with the inside neither , Mr. Mandlebert , so I do n't mean any thing by that ; only , by use , one is apt to put the outside first . '' 
Edgar , with some surprise , answered , he should be happy to take whatever care was in his power of all the ladies ; `` but , '' added he , `` for my own particular charge to-night , I have engaged Miss Camilla . '' 
Edgar , somewhat distressed , looked at Camilla : `` O , as to me , '' cried she , gaily , `` pray let me take my chance ; if I should not dance at all , the whole will be so new to me , that I am sure of entertainment . '' 
Edgar , who had hardly yet looked at her , was now himself struck with the unusual resplendence of her beauty , and telling Camilla he saw she was glad to be at liberty , protested he could not but rejoice to be spared a decision for himself , where the choice would have been so difficult . 
`` Well then , now go , '' cried the delighted baronet ; `` Lionel will find himself a partner , I have no doubt , because he is nothing particular in point of shyness ; and as to Camilla , she 'll want nothing but to hear the fiddlers to be as merry as a grig , which what it is I never knew : so I have no concern , '' added he , in a low voice , to Edgar , `` except for little Eugenia , and poor Mrs. Margland ; for Eugenia being so plain , which is no fault of her 's , on account of the small-pox , many a person may overlook her from that objection ; and as to Mrs. Margland , being with all these young chickens , I am afraid people will think her rather one of the oldest for a dancing match ; which I say in no disrespect , for oldness gives one no choice . '' 
Camilla and Eugenia followed rather as if in her train , than of her party ; but Lionel kept entirely with the officers , insisting upon their guessing which was the heiress ; to whom , while he purposely misled their conjectures , he urged them to make their court , by enumerating the present possessions of Sir Hugh , and her future expectations . 
Camilla , however , passed not long unnoticed , though the splendor of Indiana 's appearance cast her at first on the back ground ; a circumstance which , by impressing her with a sensation of inferiority , divested her mind of all personal considerations , and gave to her air and countenance a graceful simplicity , a disengaged openness , and a guileless freedom from affectation , that rendered her , to the observant eye , as captivating upon examination , as Indiana , from the first glance , was brilliant and alluring . 
And thus , as they patroled the room , Indiana excited an unmixt admiration , Camilla awakened an endless variety of remark ; while each being seen for the first time , and every one else of the company for at least the second , all attention was their own , whether for criticism or for praise . 
To Indiana this answered , in fulfilling her expectations ; by Camilla , it was unheeded , for , not awaiting , she did not perceive it ; yet both felt equal satisfaction . 
The eyes of Camilla sparkled with delight as she surveyed all around her the gay novelty of the scene ; the heart of Indiana beat with a pleasure wholly new , as she discovered that all surrounding her regarded her as the principal object . 
Edgar then led out Indiana , and the master of the ceremonies brought Major Cerwood to Camilla . 
Indiana and Camilla , in this public essay , acquitted themselves with all the merits , and all the faults common to a first exhibition . 
Indiana could with difficulty keep to the figure of the dance , from the exulting , yet unpractised certainty of attracting all eyes ; and Camilla perpetually turned wrong , from the mere flutter of fear , which made her expect she should never turn right . 
Major Cerwood , her partner , with a view to encourage her , was profuse in his compliments ; but , as new to what she heard as what she performed , she was only the more confused by the double claim to her attention . 
Miss Margland , though scarcely even superficial in general knowledge , was conversant in the practical detail of the hackneyed mode of forming matrimonial engagements ; she judged , therefore , rightly , that her pupil would be seen to most advantage , in the distinction of that adulation by which new beholders would stamp new value on her charms . 
From the time of his first boyish gallantry , on the ill-fated birth-day of Camilla , Indiana had never so much struck young Mandlebert , as while he attended her up the assemblyroom . 
Major Cerwood asked the hand of Indiana , and Edgar repaired to Camilla : `` Do you bear malice ? '' 
`` O yes , '' answered she , with alacrity , when informed of the plan of change ; `` and I wish there was any body else , that would dance with me afterwards , instead of that Major . '' 
Edgar , to whom the sun-beams of the mind gave a glow which not all the sparkling rays of the brightest eyes could emit , respected her modesty too highly to combat it , and , dropping the subject , enquired what was become of Eugenia . 
`` Yet I wish it were put less to the proof ; '' said Camilla . 
interrupted Camilla , `` O go to her at once ! 
She then flew to a form , and eagerly seated herself where she perceived the first vacancy , to stop any debate , and enforce his consent . 
Edgar , looking after her with affected reproach , but real admiration , asked the hand of Eugenia ; who gave it with readiness and pleasure ; for , though contented as a spectatress , she experienced an agreeable surprise in becoming a party engaged . 
Camilla , happy in her own good humour , now looked at her neighbours ; one of which was an elderly lady , who , wholly employed in examining and admiring the performance of her own daughters , saw nothing else in the room . 
He was now lounging against the wainscoat ; with one hand on his side , and the other upon his eye-lids , occupying the space , without using the seat , to the left of Camilla . 
Camilla , concluding herself addressed , turned round to him ; but , seeing he was sniffing up the eau suave , without looking at her , imagined he meant to speak to Miss Margland . 
Miss Margland , excessively affronted , turned her back to him ; and Camilla made an offer of her own seat ; but , as she had been dancing , and would probably dance again , Miss Margland would not let her rise . 
Casting his eyes next upon Camilla , he examined her with much attention . 
Abashed , she turned away her head ; but not choosing to lose his object , he called it back again , by familiarly saying , `` How is Sir Hugh ? '' 
A good deal surprised , she exclaimed , `` Do you know my uncle , sir ? '' 
Camilla , much wondering , was then forced into conversation with Miss Margland : but , without paying any regard to her surprise , he presently said , `` It 's most extremely worth your while to take a glance at that inimitably good figure . 
Camilla , looking at the person to whom he pointed , and who was sufficiently ludicrous , from an air of vulgar solemnity , and a dress stiffly new , though completely old-fashioned , felt disposed to join in his laugh , had she not been disconcerted by the mingled liberty and oddity of his attack . 
Miss Margland , perceiving this , bridled resentfully , and again talked on with Camilla ; till another exclamation interrupted them . 
Camilla could not forbear smiling ; but Miss Margland , taking all reply upon herself , said : `` Caricatures , sir , are by no means pleasing for young ladies to be taking , at their first coming out : one does not know who may be next , if once they get into that habit ! '' 
Miss Margland , extremely provoked , said she was sure he was some Irish fortunehunter , dressed out in all he was worth ; and charged Camilla to take no manner of notice of him . 
When the two second dances were over , Edgar , conducting Eugenia to Miss Margland , said to Camilla : `` Now , at least , if there is not a spell against it , will you dance with me ? '' 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' answered Edgar , drawing Camilla away ; `` and every gentleman in the room will be happy to see it too . '' 
`` Stop , Miss Camilla ! '' 
Edgar , though somewhat disconcerted , would still have proceeded ; but Camilla , alarmed by the frowns of Miss Margland , begged him to lead out her cousin , and , promising to be in readiness for the next two dances , glided back to her seat . 
A gentleman now , eminently distinguished by personal beauty , approached the ladies that remained , and , in the most respectful manner , began conversing with Miss Margland ; who received his attentions so gratefully , that , when he told her he only waited to see the master of the ceremonies at leisure , in order to have the honour of begging the hand of one of her young ladies , his civilities so conquered all her pride of etiquette , that she assured him there was no sort of occasion for such a formality , with a person of his appearance and manners ; and was bidding Camilla rise , who was innocently preparing to obey , when , to the surprise of them all , he addressed himself to Eugenia . 
Major Cerwood was now advancing towards Camilla , with that species of smiling and bowing manner , which is the usual precursor of an invitation to a fair partner ; when the gentleman whom Miss Margland had just called an impertinent fop , with a sudden swing , not to be eluded , cast himself between the Major and Camilla , as if he had not observed his approach ; and spoke to her in a voice so low , that , though she concluded he asked her to dance , she could not distinctly hear a word he said . 
A good deal confused , she looked at him for an explanation ; while the Major , from her air of attention , supposing himself too late , retreated . 
Her new beau then , carelessly seating himself by her side , indolently said : `` What a heat ! 
Camilla found it impossible to keep her countenance at such a result of a whisper , though she complied with the injunctions of Miss Margland , in avoiding mutual discourse with a stranger of so showy an appearance . 
cried Camilla , surprised out of her caution . 
Here Lionel , hastily running up to Camilla , whispered , `` I have made a fine confusion among the red-coats about the heiress of Cleves ! 
He was then going back , when a faint laugh from the neighbour of Camilla detained him ; `` Look , I adjure you , '' cried he , addressing her , `` if there 's not that delightful creature again , with his bran-new clothes ? 
`` Camilla , '' cried Lionel , `` will you have him for a partner ? '' 
cried Camilla 's neighbour . '' 
`` O pray , '' cried Camilla eagerly , `` do not take the trouble of looking for him ; ` twill answer no purpose . '' 
`` Why I think so too , ma'am , '' said he , misunderstanding her ; `` for as I do n't know the gentleman myself , he could go no great way towards making us better acquainted with one another : so we may just as well take our skip at once . '' 
Camilla now looked extremely foolish ; and Miss Margland was again preparing an obstacle , when Mr. Dubster started one himself . 
I ca n't possibly consent to let Miss Camilla dance in such a manner as that . '' 
Again Camilla would have declined giving him any trouble ; but he seemed persuaded it was only from shyness , and would not listen . 
Camilla began remonstrating ; but he tranquilly walked away . 
`` You are superlatively in the good graces of fortune to-night , '' cried her new friend , `` superlatively to a degree : you may not meet with such an invaluably uncommon object in twenty lustres . '' 
Camilla , fearing to be involved in a necessity of dancing with him , expressed herself very sorry for this step ; but , again misconceiving her motive , he begged her not to mind it ; saying , `` A pair of gloves here or there is no great matter . 
Much affronted , he said no more , but stood pouting and stiff before Camilla , till the second dance was over , and another general separation of partners took place . 
Lionel , seeing Mr. Dubster standing by Camilla , with a rapturous laugh , cried , `` Well , sister , have you been dancing ? '' 
Camilla , though laughing too , reproachfully shook her head at him ; while Mr. Dubster gravely said , `` It 's no fault of mine , sir , that the lady 's a sitting still ; for I come and offered myself to her the moment you told me she wanted a partner ; but I happened of the misfortune of losing one of my gloves , and not being able to find Tom Hicks , I 've been waiting all this while for a boy as has promised to get me a pair ; though , I suppose he 's fell down in the dark and broke his skull , by his not coming . 
This speech , spoken without any ceremony in the hearing of Miss Margland , to the visible and undisguised delight of Lionel , so much enraged her , that , hastily calling him aside , she peremptorily demanded how he came to bring such a vulgar partner to his sister ? 
Camilla also began to remonstrate ; but , without hearing her , he courteously addressed himself to Mr. Dubster , and told him he was sure Miss Margland and his sister would expect the pleasure of his company to join their party at tea . 
Miss Margland frowned in vain ; Mr. Dubster bowed , as at a compliment but his due ; observing he should then be close at hand for his partner ; and they were proceeding to the tea-room , when the finer new acquaintance of Camilla called after Mr. Dubster : `` Pray , my good sir , who may this Signor Thomaso be , that has the honour to stand so high in your good graces ? '' 
Then , following the rest of the party , he was placed , by the assistance of Lionel , next to Camilla , in utter defiance of all the angry glances of Miss Margland , who herself invited the handsome partner of Eugenia to join their group , and reaped some consolation in his willing civilities ; till the attention of the whole assembly was called , or rather commanded by a new object . 
Camilla and Eugenia were soon wholly engrossed by this new personage ; and Lionel , seeing her surrounded by the most fashionable men of the assembly , forgot Mr. Dubster and his gloves , in an eagerness to be introduced to her . 
The Colonel obeyed ; but not so the gentleman he addressed , who was the new acquaintance of Camilla . 
He then whispered a brief excuse to Camilla , and hurried Indiana to the ballroom . 
The Ensign , who knew not that she had danced with him the last time , was obliged to submit ; while Indiana , not conjecturing the motive that now impelled Edgar , was in a yet brighter blaze of beauty , from an exhilarating notion that there was a contest for the honour of her hand . 
Camilla , once more disappointed of Edgar , had now no resource against Mr. Dubster , but the non-arrival of the gloves ; for he had talked so publicly of waiting for them to dance with her , that every one regarded her as engaged . 
When she was gone , Mr. Dubster , who kept constantly close to Camilla , said : `` They tell me , ma'am , that ugly little body 's a great fortune . '' 
Camilla very innocently asked who he meant . 
Camilla , whose sister was deservedly dear to her , looked much displeased ; but Mr. Dubster , not perceiving it , continued : `` He recommended it to me to dance with her myself , from the first , upon that account . 
This was the sort of discourse with which Camilla was regaled till the two dances were over ; and then , begging her to fit still till he came back , he quitted her , to see what he could do about his gloves . 
Miss Margland , extremely pleased with him , for thus protecting her pupil , instantly agreed ; and , collecting her three young charges , hastened them down stairs ; though the young Ensign , inflamed with angry disappointment , uttered the most bitter lamentations at their sudden departure ; and though Mr. Dubster , pursuing them to the coach door , called out to Camilla , in a tone of pique and vexation , `` Why , what are you going for now , ma'am , when I have just got a new pair of gloves , that I have bought o'purpose ? '' 
In their way home , Edgar apologised to Camilla for again foregoing the promised pleasure of dancing with her , by explaining the situation of the Ensign . 
Camilla , internally persuaded that any reason would suffice for such an arrangement , where Indiana was its object , scarce listened to an excuse which she considered as unnecessary . 
Indiana was eager to view in the glass how her dress and ornaments had borne the shaking of the dance , and curiously impatient to look anew at a face and a figure of which no self-vanity , nor even the adulation of Miss Margland , had taught her a consciousness , such as she had acquired from the adventures of this night . 
She hastened , therefore , to her apartment as soon as she arrived at Cleves , and there indulged in an examination which forbade all surprise , and commanded equal justice for the admirers and the admired . 
Miss Margland , anxious to make her own report to Sir Hugh , accompanied Camilla and Eugenia to his room , where he was still sitting up for them . 
She expatiated upon the behaviour of young Mandlebert , in terms that filled the baronet with satisfaction . 
She exulted in the success of her own measures ; and , sinking the circumstance of the intended impartiality of Edgar , enlarged upon his dancing , out of his turn , with Indiana , as at an event which manifested his serious designs beyond all possibility of mistake . 
Indiana gave an involuntary jump ; Camilla and Eugenia looked delighted ; and Miss Margland seemed ready to second the proposition ; but Sir Hugh , with some surprise , exclaimed : `` A public breakfast , my dear boy ! 
Miss Camilla , if I had not prevented it , would have danced with I do n't know who ; and as to Miss Eugenia , she was as near as possible to not dancing at all , owing to nobody 's knowing who she was . '' 
Sir Hugh had no time to reply to this attack , from the urgency of Indiana , and the impetuosity of Lionel , who , applying to Camilla , said : `` Come , child , ask my uncle yourself , and then we shall go at once . '' 
Camilla readily made it her own request . 
Indiana , who was placed under the care of Edgar , enchanted to again display herself where sure of again being admired , neither heard nor saw the petitioner ; but dimpling and smiling , quickened her motions towards the assembly room : while Camilla , who was last , stopping short , said : `` What is the matter , poor woman ? '' 
and took her paper to examine . 
Miss Margland , snatching it from her , threw it on the ground , peremptorily saying : `` Miss Camilla , if once you begin such a thing as that , there will be no end to it ; so come along with the rest of your company , like other people . '' 
She then haughtily proceeded ; but Camilla , brought up by her admirable parents never to pass distress without inquiry , nor to refuse giving at all , because she could give but little , remained with the poor object , and repeated her question . 
The woman , shedding a torrent of tears , said she was wife to one of the prisoners who was to be tried the next day , and who expected to lose his life , or be transported , for only one bad action of stealing a leg of mutton ; which , though she knew it to be a sin , was not without excuse , being a first offence , and committed in poverty and sickness . 
Camilla , hastily giving her a shilling , took one of her petitions , and promising to do all in her power to serve her , left the poor creature almost choaked with sobbing joy . 
She was flying to join her party , when she perceived Edgar at her side . 
Camilla , accustomed from her earliest childhood to attend to the indigent and unhappy , felt neither retreating shame , nor parading pride in the office ; she gave him the petition of the poor woman , and begged he would consider if there was any thing that could be done for her husband . 
Indiana and Camilla , now first surveyed by daylight , again attracted all eyes ; but , in the simplicity of undress , the superiority of Indiana was no longer wholly unrivalled , though the general voice was still strongly in her favour . 
Indiana was a beauty of so regular a cast , that her face had no feature , no look to which criticism could point as susceptible of improvement , or on which admiration could dwell with more delight than on the rest . 
No statuary could have modelled her form with more exquisite symmetry ; no painter have harmonised her complexion with greater brilliancy of colouring . 
The beauty of Camilla , though neither perfect nor regular , had an influence so peculiar on the beholder , it was hard to catch its fault ; and the cynic connoisseur , who might persevere in seeking it , would involuntarily surrender the strict rules of his art to the predominance of its loveliness . 
In their march up the room , Camilla was spoken to by a person from the tea-table , who was distinct from every other , by being particularly ill dressed ; and who , though she did not know him , asked her how she did , with a familiar look of intimacy . 
She slightly curtfied , and endeavoured to draw her party more nimbly on ; when another person , equally conspicuous , though from being accoutred in the opposite extreme of full dress , quitting his seat , formally made up to her , and drawing on a stiff pair of new gloves as he spoke , said : `` So you are come at last , ma'am ! 
Camilla , ready to laugh , yet much provoked at this renewed claim from her old persecutor , Mr. Dubster , looked vainly for redress at the mischievous Lionel , who archly answered : `` O , ay , true , sister ; I told the gentleman , last night , you would be sure to make him amends this morning for putting him to so much expence . '' 
Edgar having now , at the end of one of the tables , secured places for the ladies , Lionel again , in defiance of the frowns of Miss Margland , invited Mr. Dubster to join them : even the appealing looks of Camilla served but to increase her brother 's ludicrous diversion , in coupling her with so ridiculous a companion ; who , without seeming at all aware of the liberty he was taking , engrossed her wholly . 
Observing Camilla regard him with an unpleasant surprise , he more solemnly added : `` I ask pardon , ma'am , for mentioning the thing , which I only do in excuse for what I said last night , not knowing then you was the fortune yourself . '' 
An eager sign of silence from Lionel , forbade her explaining this mistake ; Mr. Dubster , therefore , proceeded : `` When Tom Hicks told me about it , I said at the time , says I , she looks more like to some sort of a humble young person , just brought out of a little good-nature to see the company , and the like of that ; for she 's not a bit like a lady of fortunes , with that nudging look ; and I said to Tom Hicks , by way of joke , says I , if I was to think of her , which I do n't think I shall , at least she would not be much in my way , for she could not follow a body much about , because of that hitch in her gait , for I 'm a pretty good walker . '' 
Here the ill dressed man , who had already spoken to Camilla , quitting his seat , strolled up to her , and fastening his eyes upon her face , though without bowing , made some speech about the weather , with the lounging freedom of manner of a confirmed old acquaintance . 
Astonished and offended by his forwardness , Camilla turned entirely away from him . 
Not disconcerted by this distance , he procured a chair , upon which he cast himself , perfectly at his ease , immediately behind her . 
When she came to the head of the room , she turned about , and , with her glass , surveyed the whole company ; then smilingly advancing to the sloven , whom Camilla was shunning , she called out : `` O ! 
Struck with a jargon of which she could not suspect two persons to be capable , Camilla turned round to her slighted neighbour , and with the greatest surprise recognised , upon examination , the most brilliant beau of the preceding evening , in the worst dressed man of the present morning . 
The lady now , again holding her glass to her eye , which she directed without scruple towards Camilla and her party , said : `` Who have you got there ? '' 
Camilla looked hastily away , and her whole set , abashed by so unseasoned an inquiry , cast down their eyes . 
Then making her bend to hear his whisper , which , nevertheless , was by no means intended for her own ear alone , he added : `` Two little things as pretty as angels , and two others as ugly as -- I say no more ! '' 
cried she , laughing ; `` and acknowledge the truth of its contrast . '' 
Camilla alone , as they meant , had heard them ; and ashamed for herself , and provoked to find Eugenia coupled with Miss Margland , she endeavoured to converse with some of her own society ; but their attention was entirely engaged by the whisperers ; nor could she , for more than a minute , deny her own curiosity the pleasure of observing them . 
Mr. Dubster now , leaning over the table , solemnly said : `` I am sure I should have offered the lady my own place , if I had not been so tired myself ; but Tom Hicks overpersuaded me to dance a bit before you came in , ma'am , '' addressing Camilla , `` for you have lost a deal of dancing by coming so late ; for they all fell to as soon as ever they come ; and , as I 'm not over and above used to it , it soon makes one a little stiffish , as one may say ; and indeed , the lady 's much better off in getting a chair , for one sits mighty little at one 's ease of these here benches , with nothing to lean one 's back against . '' 
Mr. Dubster , with an air much offended , said to Camilla : `` People 's laughing and whispering , when one do n't know what it 's about , is not one of the politest things , I know , for polite people to do ; and , in my mind , they ought to be above it . '' 
This resentment excited Lionel to join in the laugh ; and Mr. Dubster , with great gravity of manner , rose , and said to Camilla ; `` When you are ready to dance , ma'am , I am willing to be your partner , and I sha n't engage myself to nobody else ; but I shall go to t ` other end of the room till you choose to stand up ; for I do n't much care to stay here , only to be laughed at , when I do n't know what it 's for . '' 
Camilla , though a little alarmed in being presented to a lady of so singular a deportment , had yet a curiosity to see more of her , that willingly seconded her brother 's motion . 
The satisfaction of Indiana , indeed , flowed simply from the glances of admiration which every where met her eye ; but Eugenia attended to every word , and every motion of Mrs. Arlbery , with that sort of earnestness which marks an intelligent child at a first play ; and Camilla , still more struck by the novelty of this new acquaintance , scarce permitted herself to breathe , left she should lose any thing she said . 
Major Cerwood offered himself to Camilla ; but Mr. Dubster coming forward , pulled him by the elbow , and making a stiff low bow , said : `` Sir , I ask your pardon for taking the liberty of giving you such a jog , but the young lady 's been engaged to me ever so long . '' 
The Major looked surprised ; but , observing that Camilla coloured , he bowed respectfully and retreated . 
Camilla , ashamed of her beau , determined not to dance at all : though she saw , with much vexation , upon the general dispersion , Miss Margland approach to claim her . 
Mr. Dubster , unacquainted with the natural high spirits of Camilla , inferred nothing to his own disadvantage from her silence , but talked incessantly himself with perfect complacency . 
Camilla here , in the midst of her chagrin , could not forbear asking him if he was married ? 
When Indiana past them , he expressed his admiration of her beauty . 
The second dance was now called , when Mrs. Arlbery , coming suddenly behind Camilla , said , in a low voice , `` Do you know who you are talking with ? '' 
And , with a provoking nod , she retreated . 
Camilla , half ready to laugh , half to cry , restrained herself with difficulty from running after her ; and Mr. Dubster , observing that she abruptly turned away , and would listen no more , again claimed her for his partner ; and , upon her absolute refusal , surprised and affronted , walked off in silence . 
She was then finally condemned to the morose society of Miss Margland : and invectives against Sir Hugh for mismanagement , and Lionel , with whom now that lady was at open war , for impertinence , filled up the rest of her time , till the company was informed that refreshments were served in the card-room . 
Camilla , contented with having already presented her mite , and Eugenia , with having given her 's in commission , retired unaffectedly with the rest ; while Miss Margland , shrugging up her shoulders , and declaring there was no end of beggars , pompously added , `` However , we gave before we came in . '' 
Miss Margland lamented she had only guineas or silver , but suffered Edgar to be her paymaster ; privately resolving , that , if she won the locket , she would remember the debt : Eugenia , amused in seeing the humour of all that was going forward , readily put in ; Indiana , satisfied her uncle would repay the expences of the day , with a heart panting from hope of the prize , did the same ; but Camilla hung back , totally unused to hazard upon what was unnecessary the little allowance she had been taught to spend sparingly upon herself , that something might be always in her power to bestow upon others . 
She knew not , however , till now , how hard to resist was the contagion of example , and felt a struggle in her self-denial , that made her , when she put the locket down , withdraw from the crowd , and resolve not to look at it again . 
Edgar , who had observed her , read her secret conflict with an emotion which impelled him to follow her , that he might express his admiration ; but he was stopt by Mrs. Arlbery , who just then hastily attacked her with , `` What have you done with your friend the tinker , my dear ? '' 
Camilla , laughing , though extremely ashamed , said , she knew nothing at all about him . 
Edgar was again advancing to Camilla , when Lionel , whose desire to obtain the good graces of Mrs. Arlbery , had suggested to him an anticipation of her commands , pushed forward with the locket . 
`` Well , really , it is not ugly , '' cried she , taking it in her hand : `` Have you put in yet , Miss Tyrold ? '' 
Camilla , though secretly blushing at what she felt was an extravagance , could not withstand this invitation : she gave her half guinea . 
Miss Margland desired Lionel to see for their carriage ; but Lionel had no greater joy than to disregard her . 
Miss Margland , as usual , grumbled ; but Camilla , perceiving Mrs. Arlbery , rejoiced in the delay ; and stationed herself by her side , all alive in attending to the pleasantry with which she was amusing herself and those around her . 
When Edgar , who seemed out of breath from running , came back , he made but short answers to the murmurs of Miss Margland ; and , hastening to Camilla , said : `` I have been with your petitioner : -- she has all that can comfort her for the present ; and I have learnt the name of her husband 's counsel . 
The attention of Camilla was now effectually withdrawn from Mrs. Arlbery , and the purest delight of which human feelings are susceptible , took sudden and sole possession of her youthful mind , in the idea of being instrumental to the preservation of a fellow-creature . 
A short consultation followed , in which both spoke with so much energy , as not only to overpower the remonstrances of Miss Margland for their departure , but to catch the notice of Mrs. Arlbery , who , coming forward , and leaning her hand on the shoulder of Camilla , said : `` Tell me what it is that has thus animated you ? 
Camilla instantly and eagerly related the subject that occupied them , without observing that the whole company around were smiling , at her earnestness in a cause of such common distress . 
Camilla presented her the petition , and she invited Mandlebert to dine with her . 
Camilla flew to meet him . 
He told her every thing relative to her petitioner was in the most prosperous train ; he had seen the prisoner , heard the particulars of his story , which all tended to his exculpation ; and Mrs. Arlbery had contrived to make acquaintance with his counsel , whom she found perfectly well disposed to exert himself in the cause , and whom she had invited to a splendid supper . 
Camilla , already powerfully struck with Mrs. Arlbery , was enchanted to find her thus active in benevolence . 
Mandlebert returned to communicate these tidings to Camilla , with a pleasure exactly in unison with her own . 
The ready hand of Eugenia was immediately in her pocket ; Camilla , looking more intently upon the group , perceived another child , and presently recognised the wife of the prisoner . 
She called to the coachman to stop , and Edgar , at the same moment , rode up to the carriage . 
cried Camilla ; `` it will be such a pleasure to see their joy ! '' 
said Camilla , with increasing earnestness . 
Encouraged by an expressive look from Camilla , Edgar dismounted to hand her from the carriage , affecting not to hear the remonstrances of Miss Margland , though she scrupled not to deliver them very audibly . 
Camilla had all the gratification she promised herself , in witnessing the happiness of the poor petitioner . 
He then put something into the man 's hand , and Eugenia , who from the carriage window heard what passed , slung him another half crown ; Camilla added a shilling , and turning suddenly away , walked a few paces from them all . 
Edgar , gently following , inquired if any thing was the matter ; her eyes were full of tears : `` I was thinking , '' she cried , `` what my dear father would have said , had he seen me giving half a guinea for a toy , and a shilling to such poor starving people as these ! '' 
cried Edgar , charmed with her penitence , though joining in the apprehended censure . 
He assured her he could regain it without difficulty ; and then , telling the poor people to postpone their walk to Cleves till the evening , when Camilla meant to prepare her uncle , also , to assist them , he handed her to the coach , with feelings yet more pleased than her own , and galloped forward to execute his commission . 
As they alighted , Camilla eagerly cried : `` Well ! 
cried she , almost seizing it from him , `` my dear father will be so glad to hear I have not spent it so foolishly . '' 
Edgar and Camilla amused themselves with conjectuing various authors ; Indiana and Miss Margland required no such aid to pass their time , while , with at least equal delight , they contemplated the hoped-for prize . 
Camilla was instantly for joining that lady ; but Eugenia felt an unconquerable curiosity to learn the running title of the book . 
But when , at the words '' -- content , Retirement , rural quiet , friendship , books , Ease and alternate labour , useful life , Progressive virtue , and approving Heaven , '' Mandlebert turned softly round to read their impression on the countenance of Camilla -- she was gone ! 
insensible Tyrold ! 
O Tyrold ! 
O Tyrold ! 
Camilla , gliding round , whispered him : `` How like my dear father was that ! 
Edgar , touched by a comparison to the person he most honoured , gratefully looked his acknowledgment ; and all displeasure at her flight , even from Thomson 's scene of conjugal felicity , was erased from his mind . 
While this was settling , Edgar , in some confusion , drew Camilla to the door , saying : `` To avoid any perplexity about your throwing , suppose you step into the haberdasher 's shop that is over the way ? '' 
Camilla , who already had felt very awkward with respect to her withdrawn subscription , gladly agreed to the proposal , and begging him to explain the matter to Miss Margland , tript across the street , while the rafflers were crowding to the point of action . 
Here she sat , making some small purchases , till the business was over : The whole party then came forth into the street , and all in a body poured into the haberdasher 's shop , smiling , bowing , and of one accord wishing her joy . 
Concluding this to be in derision of her desertion , she rallied as well as she was able ; but Mrs. Arlbery , who entered the last , and held the locket in her hand , said : `` Miss Tyrold , I heartily with you equally brilliant success , in the next , and far more dangerous lottery , in which , I presume , you will try your fate . '' 
Camilla , colouring , laughing , and unwillingly taking it , said : `` I suppose , ma'am -- I hope -- it is yours ? '' 
And she looked about for Edgar to assist her ; but , he was gone to hasten the carriage . 
Every body crowded round her to take a last sight of the beautiful locket . 
Eager to get rid of it , she put it into the hands of Indiana , who regarded it with a partiality which her numerous admirers had courted , individually , in vain ; though the young Oxonian , by his dramatic emotions , had engaged more of her attention than she had yet bestowed elsewhere . 
Meanwhile , Camilla gathered from Major Cerwood , that the prize had really fallen to her lot . 
Edgar had excused her not staying to throw for herself , but the general proxy , the bookseller , had been successful in her name . 
In great perplexity how to account for this incident , she apprehended Edgar had made some mistake , and determined , through his means , to restore the locket to the subscription . 
The carriage of Mrs. Arlbery was first ready ; but , pushing away the throng of beaux offering assistance , she went up to Camilla , and said : `` Fair object of the spleen of all around , will you bring a little of your influence with good fortune to my domain , and come and dine with me ? '' 
Delighted at the proposal , Camilla looked at Miss Margland ; but Miss Margland , not being included in the invitation , frowned a refusal . 
take care of Miss Tyrold to my coach . '' 
Camilla , who never imagined rudeness could make a feature of affectation , internally attributed this refusal to his pique that she had disregarded him at the public breakfast , and would have made him some apology , but knew not in what manner to word it . 
The Major again came forward , but Miss Margland , advancing also , said : `` Miss Camilla ! 
The Major , with alacrity , offered his hand ; Camilla hesitated ; she wished passionately to go , yet felt she had no authority for such a measure . 
The name , though not the person of Mrs. Arlbery , was known both at Cleves and at Etherington , as belonging to the owner of a capital house in the neighbourhood ; and though the invitation was without form , Camilla was too young to be withheld by ceremony . 
Her uncle , she was sure , could refuse her nothing ; and she thought , as she was only a visitor at Cleves , Miss Margland had no right to control her ; the pleasure , therefore , of the scheme , soon conquered every smaller difficulty , and , looking away from her party , she suffered herself to be led to the coach . 
Mrs. Arlbery was following , when Indiana exclaimed : `` Cousin Camilla , what am I to do with your locket ? 
Camilla had wholly forgotten it ; she called to Edgar , who slowly , and with a seriousness very unusual , obeyed her summons . 
Mrs. Arlbery then got into the coach ; but Camilla , still farther recollecting herself , again called to Edgar , and holding out the half guinea , said : `` How shall I get this to the poor people ? '' 
Mandlebert bowed a pleased assent , and Camilla applied to Eugenia ; but Miss Margland , in deep wrath , refused to let her move a step . 
Camilla , begging a moment 's delay , desired Edgar to approach nearer , and said , in a low voice : `` I can not bear to let those poor expectants toil so far for nothing . 
Camilla , who at the beginning of this speech felt the highest glee , sunk involuntarily at its conclusion , and turning with a blank countenance to Mrs. Arlbery , stammeringly said : `` Can you , will you -- be so very good , as not to take it ill if I do n't go with you ? '' 
She then ordered the footman to open the door ; and Camilla , too much abashed to offer any apology , was handed out by Edgar . 
`` Amiable Camilla ! '' 
said he , in conducting her back to Miss Margland , `` this is a self-conquest that I alone , perhaps , expected from you ! '' 
Cheared by such approbation , she forgot her disappointment , and regardless of Miss Margland and her ill humour , jumped into her uncle 's coach , and was the gayest of the party that returned to Cleves . 
Edgar took the locket from Indiana , and promised to rectify the mistake ; and then , lest Mrs. Arlbery should be offended with them all , rode to her house without any fresh invitation , accompanied by Lionel ; whose anger against Camilla , for suffering Miss Margland to gain a victory , was his theme the whole ride . 
The first care of Camilla was to interest Sir Hugh in the misfortunes of the prisoner and his family ; her next , to relate the invitation of Mrs. Arlbery , and to beg permission that she might wait upon that lady the next morning , with apologies for her abrupt retreat , and with acknowledgments for the services done to the poor woman ; which first the Oxonian , and then the raffle , had driven from her mind . 
He told Camilla he had stolen away the instant the dinner was over , to avoid any mistake about the poor people , whom he had just overtaken by the parkgate , and conducted to the great barn , where he had directed them to wait for orders . 
`` I 'll run to them immediately , '' cried she , `` for my half guinea is in an agony to be gone ! '' 
He then gave Camilla three guineas to deliver to them from himself , to set them a little a-going in an honest way , that they might not , he said , repent leaving off bad actions . 
Her joy was so excessive , that she passionately embraced his knees : and Edgar , while he looked on , could nearly have bent to her his own , with admiration of her generous nature . 
Camilla , leading the way , with a fleetness that mocked all equality , ran into the barn , and saw the whole party , according to their several powers , enjoying themselves . 
To the gay heart of Camilla whatever was sportive was attractive ; she flew to the little fellow , whose skin was clean and bright , in the midst of his rags and wretchedness , and , making herself his play-mate , bid the woman finish feeding her child , told the man to repose himself undistrubed , and began dancing with the little boy , not less delighted than himself at the festive exercise . 
Miss Margland cast up her hands and eyes as she entered , and poured forth a warm remonstrance against so demeaning a condescension : but Camilla , in whose composition pride had no share , though spirit was a principal ingredient , danced on unheeding , to the equal amaze and enchantment of the poor man and woman , at the honour done to their little son . 
Miss Margland appealed to him upon the impropriety of the behaviour of Camilla , adding , `` If I had had the bringing up a young lady who could so degrade herself , I protest I should blush to shew my face : but you can not , I am sure , fail remarking the difference of Miss Lynmere 's conduct . '' 
Edgar attended with an air of complacency , which he thought due to the situation of Miss Margland in the family , yet kept his eyes fixt upon Camilla , with an expression that , to the least discernment , would have evinced his utmost approbation of her innocent gaiety : but Miss Margland was amongst that numerous tribe , who , content as well as occupied with making observations upon others , have neither the power , nor thought , of developing those that are returned upon themselves . 
Camilla at length , wholly out of breath , gave over ; but perceiving that the baby was no longer at its mother 's breast , flew to the poor woman , and , taking the child in her arms , said : `` Come , I can nurse and rest at the same time ; I assure you the baby will be safe with me , for I nurse all the children in our neighbourhood . '' 
Had this scene lasted till Camilla was tired , its period would not have been very short ; but Miss Margland , finding her exhortations vain , suddenly called out : `` Miss Lynmere ! 
Edgar , quick as lightning at this sound , flew to Camilla , and snatched the child from her arms . 
Indiana , with a scream , ran out of the barn ; Miss Margland hurried after ; and Eugenia , following , earnestly intreated Camilla not to stay another moment . 
cried she ; `` I always nurse poor children when I see them at home ; and my father never prohibits me . '' 
`` At least , '' said she , `` before I depart , let me execute my commission . '' 
And then , with the kindest good wishes for their better fortune , she put her uncle 's three guineas into the hands of the poor man , and her own rescued half guinea into those of his wife ; and , desiring Edgar not to remain himself where he would not suffer her to stay , ran to give her arm to Eugenia ; leaving it a doubtful point , whether the good humour accompanying her alms , made the most pleased impression upon their receivers , or upon their observer . 
She opened it with an air of exulting consequence ; one which was inclosed , she put into her pocket , and read the other three or four times over , with looks of importance and complacency . 
She then pompously demanded a private audience with Sir Hugh , and the young party left the room . 
she cried , proudly , `` you may now see if I judged right as to taking the young ladies a little into the world . 
He then summoned Camilla , and , giving her the letter , bid her run with it to her sister , for fear it was that she was fretting for . 
When Camilla entered with the letter , she bashfully asked her , if she wished to read it ? 
Camilla eagerly cried : `` O , yes . '' 
`` Do you not observe every day , '' said Camilla , `` the distance , the delicacy of his behaviour to Indiana , though Miss Margland says their marriage is fixed ; how free from all distinction that might confuse her ? 
She then bid good night to Camilla ; who , concluding her the appropriated wife of Clermont , had uttered her opinion without scruple . 
`` Why it was all brought about , '' said Sir Hugh , `` by their going to a ball and a public breakfast , which is a thing my little Camilla is not at all to blame for , because if nobody had put it in her head , she would not have known there was a thing of the kind . 
And , indeed , it was but natural in poor Lionel neither , to set her agog , the chief fault lying in the assizes ; to which my particular objection is against the lawyers , who come into a town to hang and transport the poor , by way of keeping the peace , and then encourage the rich to make all the noise and riot they can , by their own junkettings ; for which , however , being generally , I believe , pretty good scholars , I make no doubt but they have their own reasons . '' 
Mr. Tyrold fixed his hour for expecting the carriage , and the baronet desired that Lavinia should be of the party ; `` because , '' he said , `` I see she has the proper discretion , when she is wanted to go out of the way ; which must be the same with Camilla and Indiana , too , to-day , as well as with young Mr. Edgar ; for I do n't think it prudent to trust such new beginners with every thing that goes on , till they get a little older . '' 
But the soft perfection of her character relieves me from any apprehension for her conduct , and almost all my solicitude devolves upon Camilla . 
My wishes , therefore , had guided him to our Camilla , that sweet , open , generous , inconsiderate girl , whose feelings are all virtues , but whose impulses have no restraints : I have not a fear for her , when she can act with deliberation ; but fear is almost all I have left , when I consider her as led by the start of the moment . 
That Indiana should vanquish where Lavinia and Camilla have failed ! 
The observations of Camilla had broken that spell with which a first declaration of regard is apt to entangle unreflecting inexperience ; and by teaching her to less value the votary , had made the conquest less an object of satisfaction . 
She was gratified by the permission of her uncle to write her own answer , which was now produced . 
The fond parents finished their visit in full satisfaction with their irreproachable Eugenia , and with the joy of seeing their darling Camilla as happy and as disengaged as when she had left them ; but Mandlebert had spent the day abroad , and escaped , therefore , the observations with which they had meant to have investigated his sentiments . 
The visit which Camilla had designed this morning to Mrs. Arlbery , she had been induced to relinquish through a speech made to her by Lionel . 
Camilla , though of the same opinion with respect to Indiana , concluded Mrs. Arlbery was offended by her retreat , and lost all courage for offering any apology . 
Camilla , running to meet him , asked if he had restored the locket to the right owner . 
Camilla , in some perplexity , following him , exclaimed : `` Pray tell me what I must do ? 
And taking a little shagreen case from his waistcoat pocket , he put it into her hand . 
Camilla , opening the case , saw the locket , and perceived under the crystal a light knot of braided hair . 
But while she looked at it , he hurried into the house . 
She ran after him , and insisted upon an explanation , declaring it to be utterly impossible that the locket and the half guinea should belong to the same person . 
`` The half guinea you put into my hand , then , '' cried she , colouring , `` was your own ? '' 
`` My dear Miss Camilla , there is no other occasion upon which I would have hazarded such a liberty ; but as the money was for a charity , and as I had undertaken what I could not perform , I rather ventured to replace it , than suffer the poor objects for whom it was destined , to miss your kind intention . '' 
`` You have certainly done right , '' said she -LRB- feeling for her purse -RRB- ; `` but you must not , for that reason , make me a second time do wrong . '' 
Camilla put up her purse , but , with some spirit , said : `` There is another way to settle the matter which can not hurt you ; if I do not pay you my half guinea , you must at least keep the fruits of your own . '' 
And she returned him the locket . 
`` Give it , '' answered she , innocently , `` to Indiana . '' 
`` No ; '' replied he , -LRB- reddening and putting it down upon a table , -RRB- but you may , if you believe her value will be greater than your own for the hair of your two sisters . '' 
Camilla , surprised , again looked at it , and recognized the hair of Lavinia and Eugenia . 
`` I suppose , '' said Eugenia , `` because Camilla had herself drawn the prize , and he had only added our hair to it . '' 
Camilla , meanwhile , decorated herself with the locket , and had nothing in her possession which gave her equal delight . 
Edgar and Indiana , knowing nothing of his late declaration , thought nothing of his present admission ; to Dr. Orkborne he was an utter stranger ; but Camilla had recourse to her fan to conceal a smile ; and Eugenia was in the utmost confusion . 
`` Well then , now , '' cried Sir Hugh , I 'll marshal you all : and , first , for my little Camilla , who shall come to my proper share ; for she 's certainly the best companion of the whole ; which I hope nobody will take for a slight , all of us not being the same , without any fault of our own . 
Lionel shall take the care of Mrs. Margland , it being always right for the young to help people a little stricken ; and as for the odd one , Dr. Marchmont , why he may join little Camilla and me ; for as she 's none of the steadiest , and I am none of the strongest , it is but fair the one over should be between us . '' 
He had , however , insisted that Camilla should jump over first , saying , `` There 's no need of all of us being tost , my dear girl , because of my slowness , which is no fault of mine , but of Robert 's not being in the way ; which must needs make the poor fellow unhappy enough , when he hears of it : which , no doubt , I shall let him do , according to his deserts . '' 
Edgar soon reached the bank by the road 's side , upon which the baronet , Dr. Marchmont , Lionel , and Camilla were seated . 
Edgar assured him she was safe , and under the care of Miss Margland , but that neither of them could be prevailed with to come farther : he had , therefore , advanced to inquire after the rest of the party , and to arrange where they should all assemble . 
Edgar said , he would make a circuit in search of them ; but , first , addressing Camilla , `` You alone , '' he cried , with an approving smile , `` have remained thus quiet , while all else have been scampering apart , making confusion worse confounded . '' 
`` I have lived too completely in the country to be afraid of cattle , '' she answered ; `` and Dr. Marchmont assured me there was no danger . '' 
Camilla raised her eyes , and looked at him , but dropt them again without making any answer : Can you , she thought , have been pleading it in vain ? 
Edgar attended Camilla ; Miss Margland adhered to Bellamy : Lionel , who durst not venture at any new frolic , but with whom time lingered when none was passing , retreated ; Dr. Marchmont , who was near his home , soon also made his bow ; and Dr. Orkborne , who was glad to be alone , ruminated with wonder upon what appeared to him a phenomenon , a man of learning who could deign to please and seem pleased where books were not the subject of discourse , and where scholastic attainments were not required to elucidate a single sentence . 
When the party arrived at Cleves , Camilla , who had observed that Edgar seemed much disappointed by the breking up of the cottage expedition , proposed that it should take place in the evening ; and her uncle , though too much fatigued to venture out again himself , consented , or rather insisted , that the excursion should be made without him . 
Sir Hugh concluded it was to make his propofals of marriage for Indiana ; and had not patience to step into his own apartment , but told them all to retire , with a nod at Indiana , which prepared not only herself but Miss Margland , Camilla , and Eugenia to join in his expectation . 
Camilla , unusually thoughtful , walked alone into the garden , and sought a path least in sight . 
He then ordered the coach for Miss Margland , Indiana , and Camilla . 
Indiana has a beauty so exquisite , it is fcarce possible to look away from it a moment : Eugenia joins so much innocence with information , that the mind must itself be deformed that could dwell upon her personal defects , after conversing with her : Camilla '' -- He paused , and Edgar haftily turned another way , not to look at him , nor be looked at , while he proceeded : `` Camilla , '' he presently continued , `` seems the most inartificially sweet , the most unobtrusively gay , and the most attractively lovely of almost any young creature I ever beheld . '' 
When the coach arrived , Edgar handed out Miss Margland and Indiana ; leaving Camilla to the Doctor ; willing to let him see more of her , and by no means displeased to avoid his eyes at that moment himself . 
Indiana was in the most sprightly spirits she had ever experienced ; she concluded herself on the verge of becoming mistress of a fine place and a large fortune ; she had received adulation all the morning that had raised her beauty higher than ever in her own estimation ; and she secretly revolved , with delight , various articles of ornament and of luxury , which she had long wished to possess , and which now , for her wedding clothes , she should have riches sufficient to purchase . 
Camilla , alone , was grave ; Camilla , who , by nature , alone was gay . 
Camilla , who followed , made an exclamation far different ; an exclamation of pleasure , surprise , and vivacity , that restored for an instant , all her native gaiety : for no sooner had she crossed the threshold , than she recognised , in a woman who was curtsying low to receive her , and whom Indiana had passed without observing , the wife of the poor prisoner for whom she had interceded with Mandlebert . 
Edgar , somewhat agitated , occupied himself with jumping the little boy ; Camilla looked round with rapture ; Indiana seemed wonder-struck , without knowing why ; Dr. Marchmont narrowly watched them all ; and Miss Margland , expecting a new collection would be next proposed for setting them up , nimbly recrossed the threshold , to examine the prospect without . 
The husband , now in decet garb , and much recovered , though still weak and emaciated , advanced to Camilla , to make his humble acknowledgments , that she had recommended them to their kind benefactor . 
cried Camilla ; `` you owe me nothing ! 
Then , going up to Edgar , `` It is your happy fate , '' she said , in an accent of admiration , `` to act all that my father so often plans and wishes , but which his income will not allow him to execute . '' 
-- Camilla felt the tears start into her eyes ; -- she hastily snatched the little babe into her arms ; and , while her kisses hid her face , Happy , and thrice happy Indiana ! 
with a soft sigh , was the silent ejaculation of her heart . 
She seated herself on a stool , and , without speaking or hearing any thing more , devoted herself to the baby . 
Indiana , meanwhile , whose confidence in her own situation gave her courage to utter whatever first occurred to her , having made a general survey of the place and people , with an air of disappointment , now amused herself with an inspection more minute , taking up and casting down every thing that was portable , without any regard either to deranging its neatness , or endangering its safety : -- exclaiming , as she made her round of investigation , `` Dear ! 
Camilla unwillingly gave up the baby ; but would not depart without looking over the cottage , where every thing the saw excited a sensation of pleasure . 
were her continual exclamations ; `` How bright you have rubbed your faucepans ! 
Indiana and Miss Margland , quite wearied , both got into the carriage ; Edgar , having deposited them , returned to Camilla , who kissed both the children , poured forth good wishes upon the father and mother ; and , then , gave him her hand . 
The whole way home , the benevolence of Edgar occupied the mind of Camilla ; and , not in the present instance , the less , that its object had been originally of her own pointing out . 
Miss Margland and Indiana watched the moment when they might appease their burning curiosity by descending : but Eugenia wished to prolong her absence , that she might recover from the embarrassment she had just suffered ; and Camilla determined not to appear again till the next morning . 
For the first time in her life after the shortest separation , she forbore to seek Eugenia , whom she supposed would have gathered all the particulars of the approaching proaching nuptials . 
To keep up her own consequence , she had again repeated her assurances , that all was in a prosperous train ; though she had frequently , with strong private uneasiness , observed the eyes of Edgar fixed upon Camilla , with an attention far more pointed than she had ever remarked in them when their direction was towards her fair pupil . 
Camilla hurried over her breakfast in expectation of the chaise , and in dread continual , lest her cousin should call her aside , to acquaint her that all was arranged . 
Edgar perceived , with surprise , that she was going out alone ; and , no sooner gathered whither , than , drawing her to one of the windows , he earnestly said : `` Is it by appointment you wait upon Mrs. Arlbery ? '' 
The whole design of Camilla was to absent herself immediately ; yet she hated to say no . 
She looked disturbed , and was silent . 
`` A thousand , thousand thanks , '' cried Camilla , gaily , `` for taking so much trouble ; and ten thousand more for finding it needless ! '' 
Wishing to comply with his request , yet impatient to leave the house , Camilla stood suspended till the chaise was announced . 
`` I think , '' cried she , with a look and tone of irresolution , `` my going this once can draw on no ill consequence ? '' 
cried she , wholly vanquished ; `` I insist , therefore , that you do not postpone your business . '' 
She then desired the servant , who was taking away the breakfast equipage , to order the chaise to be put up . 
Edgar , subdued in his turn , caught her hand : but , instantly , recollecting himself , hastily let it go ; and , throwing up the window sash , abruptly exclaimed : `` I never saw such fine weather : -- I hope it will not rain ! '' 
Camilla also went to her chamher , in a perturbation at once pleasing and painful . 
She was sorry to have missed her excursion , but she was happy to have obliged Edgar ; she was delighted he could take such interest in her conduct and affairs , yet dreaded , more than ever , a private converfation with Indiana ; -- Indiana , who , every moment , appeared to her less and less calculated to bestow felicity upon Edgar Mandlebert . 
She seated herself at a window , and soon , through the trees , perceived him gallopping away . 
she cried , earnestly looking after him , with her hands clasped , and tears starting into her eyes . 
Frightened at her own tenderness , she rose , shut the window , and walked to another end of the apartment . 
She took up a book ; but she could not read : `` Too -- too amiable Edgar ! '' 
again escaped her . 
She went to her piano forte ; she could not play : `` Too -- too amiable Edgar ! '' 
Alarmed and ashamed , even to herself , she resolved to diffipate her ideas by a long walk ; and not to come out of the park , till the first dinner-bell summoned her to dress . 
must be present at every look , every word , every motion ; you must forget her wholly as Camilla Tyrold , you must think of her only as Camilla Mandlebert ; even justice is insufficient during this period of probation , and instead of inquiring , `` Is this right in her ? '' 
-- '' `` Do not let that idea weaken what I urge ; I have not had reason to think well of them ; yet I believe there are individuals who merit every regard : your Camilla may be one of them . 
Take , however , this warning from my experience ; whatever is her appearance of worth , try and prove its foundation , ere you conclude it invulnerable ; and whatever are your pretensions to her hand , do not necessarily connect them with your chances for her heart . '' 
Mandlebert , filled now with a distrust of himself and of his powers , which he was incapable of harbouring of Camilla and her magnanimity , felt struck to the soul with the apprehension of failing to gain her affection , and wounded in every point both of honour and delicacy , from the bare suggestion of owing his wife to his situation in the world . 
Camilla , almost without her own knowledge , had strolled towards the gate , whence she concluded Edgar to have ridden from the Park , and , almost without consciousness , had continued sauntering in its vicinity ; yet she no sooner descried him , than , struck with a species of self-accusation for this appearance of awaiting him , she crossed over to the nearest path towards the house , and , for the first time , was aware of the approach of Edgar without hastening to meet him . 
He slackened his pace , to quiet his spirits , and restore his manner to its customary serenity , before he permitted himself to overtake her . 
`` Rather say , '' she gently answered , `` could I have forgiven you , if you had shewn me you thought my impatience too ungovernable for any delay ? '' 
To find her thus willing to oblige him , was a new delight , and he expressed his acknowledgments in terms the most flattering . 
An unusual seriousness made her hear him almost without reply ; yet peace and harmony revisited her mind , and , in listening to his valued praise , she forgot her late alarm at her own sensations , and without extending a thought beyond the present instant , again felt tranquil and happy : while to Edgar she appeared so completely all that was adorable , that he could only remember to repent his engagement with Dr. Marchmont . 
Her secret opinion that he was dissatisfied with his lot , gave a softness to her accents that enchanted him ; while the high esteem for his character , which mingled with her pity , joined to a lowered sense of her own , from a new-born terror lest that pity were too tender , spread a charm wholly new over her native fire and vivacity . 
They were selected from curious hot-house plants , and Camilla stopt to admire their beauty and fragrance . 
Edgar presented her the basket ; whence she simply took a sprig of myrtle and geranium , conceiving the present to be designed for Indiana . 
She thanked him , and while he gave orders to the gardener , Miss Margland and Indiana advanced from the house . 
But , upon beholding them together , she thought deliberation and patience were hopeless , and determined , by a decisive stroke , to break in its bud the connection she supposed forming , or throw upon Camilla all censure , if she failed , as the sole means she could devise to exculpate her own sagacity from impeachment . 
She called upon Indiana , therefore , to accompany her into the Park , exclaiming , in an angry tone , `` Miss Lynmere , I will shew you the true cause why Mr. Mandlebert does not declare himself -- your cousin , Miss Camilla , is wheedling him away from you . '' 
But I do n't take it very kind of my cousin , I can tell her ! '' 
Edgar , vexed at their interruption , continued talking to the gardener , to avoid joining them ; but seeing Camilla , who less than ever wished for their communications , walk instantly another way , he thought it would be improper to pursue her , and only bowing to Miss Margland and Indiana , went into the house . 
`` No , nor any body else , my dear , that had common sense , and their eyes open ; nor Mr. Mandlebert neither , if it were not for Miss Camilla . 
However , we 'll let her know we see what she is about ; and let Sir Hugh know too : for as to the colonels , and the ensigns , and that young Oxford student , they wo n't at all do ; officers are commonly worth nothing ; and scholars , you may take my word for it , my dear , are the dullest men in the world . 
These words , reviving in the mind of Indiana her wedding clothes , the train of servants , and the new equipage , gave fresh pique to her provocation : but finding some difficulty to overtake the fleet Camilla , whose pace kept measure with her wish to avoid them , she called after her , to desire she would not walk so fast . 
Camilla reluctantly loitered , but without stopping or turning to meet them , that she might still regale herself with the perfume of the geranium presented her by Edgar . 
Camilla , in much surprize , asked , what she meant . 
cried Camilla , blushing , from a dawning comprehension of the subject , though resenting the manner of the complaint . 
`` Nay , only ask yourself , ma'am , only ask yourself , Miss Camilla , how you should like to be so supplanted , if such an establishment were forming for yourself , and every thing were fixt , and every body else refused , and nobody to hinder its all taking place , but a near relation of your own , who ought to be the first to help it forward . 
I should like to know , I say , Miss Camilla , how you would feel , if it were your own case ? '' 
Astonished and indignant at so sudden and violent an assault , Camilla stood suspended , whether to deign any vindication , or to walk silently away : yet its implications involuntarily filled her with a thousand other , and less offending emotions than those of anger , and a general confusion crimsoned her cheeks . 
`` You can not but be sensible , ma'am , '' resumed Miss Margland , `` for sense is not what you want , that you have seduced Mr. Mandlebert from your cousin ; you can not but see he takes hardly the smallest notice of her , from the pains you are at to make him admire nobody but yourself . '' 
The spirit of Camilla now rose high to her aid , at a charge thus impertinent and unjust . 
`` Miss Margland , '' she cried , `` you shock and amaze me ! 
She would then have taken the hand of Indiana , but disdainfully drawing it back , `` I sha n't break my heart about , it I assure you , '' she cried , `` you are vastly welcome to him for me ; I hope I am not quite so odious , but I may find other people in the world besides Mr. Mandlebert ! '' 
This was an attack the most offensive that Camilla could receive ; nothing could so nearly touch her as an idea of ingratitude to her uncle , and resting upon that , the whole tide of those feelings which were , in fact , divided and subdivided into many crossing channels , she broke forth , with great eagerness , into exclaiming , `` Miss Margland , this is quite barbarous ! 
`` Miss Margland , '' replied Camilla , with the extremest agitation , `` this is so unexpected -- so undeserved an interpretation , -- my consultation , or my acquiescence have been merely from respect ; no other thought , no other motive -- Good God ! 
A resentful answer was rising to the tongue of Camilla , when she perceived her two little sprigs , which in her recent disorder she had dropt , were demolishing under the feet of Indiana , who , with apparent unmeaningness , but internal suspicion of their giver , had trampled upon them both . 
Camilla felt herself blush , and letting the flowers fall , turned to Indiana , and said , `` Cousin , if on my account , it is possible you can suffer the smallest uneasiness , tell me but what I shall do -- you shall dictate to me -- you shall command me . '' 
Indiana disclaimed all interest in her behaviour ; but Miss Margland cried , `` What you can do , ma'am , is this , and nothing can be easier , nor fairer : leave off paying all that court to Mr. Mandlebert , of asking his advice , and follow your own way , whether he likes it or not , and go to see Mrs. Arlbery , and Mrs. every body else , when you have a mind , without waiting for his permission , or troubling yourself about what he thinks of it . '' 
Camilla now trembled in every joint , and with difficulty restrained from tears , while , timidly , she said -- `` And do you , my dear Indiana , demand of me this conduct ? 
`` Indeed , indeed , Indiana , '' said Camilla , overpowered with conflicting sensations , `` this is using me very unkindly ! '' 
And , without waiting to hear another word , she hurried into the house , and flew to hide herself in her own room . 
This was the first bitter moment she had ever known . 
Peace , gay though uniform , had been the constant inmate of her breast , enjoyed without thought , possessed without struggle ; not the subdued gift of accommodating philosophy , but the inborn and genial produce of youthful felicity 's best aliment , the energy of its own animal spirits . 
She had , indeed , for some time past , thought Edgar of too refined and too susceptible a character for the unthinking and undistinguishing Indiana ; and for the last day or two , her regret at his fate had strengthened itself into an averseness of his supposed destination , that made the idea of it painful , and the subject repugnant to her ; but she had never , till this very morning , distrusted the innoxiousness either of her pity or her regard ; and , startled at the first surmise of danger , she had wished to fly even from herself , rather than venture to investigate feelings so unwelcome ; yet still and invariably , she had concluded Edgar the future husband of Indiana . 
To hear there were any doubts of the intended marriage , filled her with emotions indefinable ; to hear herself named as the cause of those doubts , was alarming both to her integrity and her delicacy . 
She felt the extremest anger at the unprovoked and unwarrantable harshness of Miss Margland , and a resentment nearly equal at the determined petulance , and unjustifiable aspersions of Indiana . 
Satisfied of the innocence of her intentions , she knew not what alteration she could make in her behaviour ; and , after various plans , concluded , that to make none would best manifest her freedom from self-reproach . 
At the summons therefore to dinner , she was the first to appear , eager to shew herself unmoved by the injustice of her accusers , and desirous to convince them she was fearless of examination . 
Yet , too much discomposed to talk in her usual manner , she seized upon a book till the party was seated . 
Answering then to the call of her uncle , with as easy an air as she could assume , she took her accustomed place by his side , and began , for mere employment , filling a plate from the dish that was nearest to her ; which she gave to the footman , without any direction whither to carry , or enquiry if any body chose to eat of it . 
It was taken round the table , and , though refused by all , she heaped up another plate , with the same diligence and speed as if it had been accepted . 
Engrossed by the pride of self-defence , and the indignancy of unmerited unkindness , the disturbed mind of Camilla had not yet formed one separate reflexion , nor even admitted a distinct idea of Edgar himself , disengaged from the accusation in which he stood involved . 
The moment he appeared , the deepest blushes covered her face ; and an emotion so powerful beat in her breast , that the immediate impulse of her impetuous feelings , was to declare herself ill , and run out of the room . 
With this view she rose ; but ashamed of her plan , seated herself the next moment , though she had first overturned her plate and a sauce-boat in the vehemence of her haste . 
This accident rather recovered than disconcerted her , by affording an unaffected occupation , in begging pardon of Sir Hugh , who was the chief sufferer , changing the napkins , and restoring the table to order . 
`` What upon earth can be the matter with Miss Camilla , I ca n't guess ! '' 
`` I hope , '' said Edgar surprized , `` Miss Camilla is not ill ? '' 
Camilla , who was rubbing a part of her gown upon which nothing had fallen , affected to be too busy to hear them : while Sir Hugh , concluding her silent from shame , entreated her not to think of his cloaths , which were worth no great matter , not being his best by two or three suits . 
Her thoughts had not waited this injunction ; yet it was in vain she strove to behave as if nothing had happened . 
Her spirit instigated , but it would not support her ; her voice grew husky , she stammered , forgot , as she went on , what she designed to say when she began speaking , and frequently was forced to stop short , with a faint laugh at herself , and with a colour every moment encreasing . 
And the very instant the cloth was removed , she rose , unable to constrain herself any longer , and ran up stairs to her own room . 
There all her efforts evaporated in tears . 
`` Cruel , cruel , Miss Margland , '' she cried , `` unjust , unkind Indiana ! 
In a few minutes she heard the step of Eugenia . 
Ashamed , she hastily wiped her eyes ; and before the door could be opened , was at the further end of the room , looking into one of her drawers . 
`` What is it that has vexed my dearest Camilla ? '' 
cried her kind sister , `` something I am sure has grieved her . '' 
`` I can not guess what I have done with -- I can no where find -- '' stammered Camilla , engaged in some apparent search , but too much confused to name any thing of which she might probably be in want . 
Camilla besought Eugenia to join them , and make her excuses : but , fearing Miss Margland would attribute her absconding to guilt , or cowardice , she bathed her eyes in cold water , and overtook her sister at the stairs of the little building . 
In ascending them , she heard Miss Margland say , `` I dare believe nothing 's the matter but some whim ; for to be sure as to whims , Miss Camilla has the most of any creature I ever saw , and Miss Lynmere the least ; for you may imagine , Mr. Mandlebert , I have pretty good opportunity to see all these young people in their real colours . '' 
What had dropt from Miss Margland of her whims , he had heard with disdain ; for , without suspecting her of malice to Camilla , he concluded her warped by her prejudice in favour of Indiana . 
Having completely spoilt one skein , she threw it aside , and saying `` the weather 's so fine , I can not bear to stay within , '' -- left her silk , her winders , and her workbag , on the first chair , and skipt down the stairs . 
Camilla , perceiving him , bent her head , and began gathering some flowers . 
He stood by her a moment in silence , and then said : `` To-morrow morning , without fail , I will wait upon Mrs. Needham . '' 
A rustling of silk made Camilla now look up , and she perceived Miss Margland leaning half out of the window of the summer-house , from earnestness to catch what she said . 
Camilla again bent over the flowers ; but it was not to scent their fragrance ; she sought only a hiding place for her eyes , which were gushing with tears ; and though she wished to fly a thousand miles off , she had not courage to take a single step , nor force to trust her voice with the shortest reply . 
interrupted Camilla , `` if you would not make me quite -- '' She stopt suddenly , not to utter the word unhappy , of which she felt the improper strength at the moment it was quivering on her lips , and leaving her sentence unfinished , abruptly walked away . 
Edgar could not presume to follow , yet felt her conquest irresistible . 
Her self-denial with regard to Mrs. Arlbery won his highest approbation ; her compliance with his wishes convinced him of her esteem ; and her distress , so new and so unaccountable , centered every wish of his heart in a desire to solace , and to revive her . 
Camilla is not happy -- something , I know not what , has disturbed the gay serenity of her bosom : she has forbid me to enquire the cause ; -- one way only remains to give me a claim to her confidence . 
wonder not if cold , tardy , suspicious -- I had nearly said unfeeling , caution , shrinks at such a moment , from the rising influence of warmer sympathy , which bids me footh her in distress , shield her from danger , strengthen all her virtues , and participate in their emanations ! 
You will not do me the injustice to think me either impelled or blinded by external enchantments ; you know me to have withstood their yet fuller blaze in her cousin : O no ! 
were she despoiled of all personal attraction by the same ravaging distemper that has been so fierce with her poor sister ; were a similar cruel accident to rob her form of all symmetry , she would yet be more fascinating to my soul , by one single look , one single word , one sweet beaming smile , diffusing all the gaiety it displays , than all of beauty , all of elegance , all of rank , all of wealth , the whole kingdom , in some wonderful aggregate , could oppose to her . 
Her face , her form , however penetrating in loveliness , aid , but do not constitute , her charms ; no , 't is the quick intelligence of soul that mounts to her eyes , 't is the spirit checked by sweetness , the sweetness animated by spirit , the nature so nobly above all artifice , all study -- O Doctor ! 
Camilla , meanwhile , shut up in her room , wept almost without cessation , from a sense of general unhappiness , though fixed to no point , and from a disturbance of mind , a confusion of ideas and of feelings , that rendered her incapable of reflection . 
She was again followed by Eugenia , and could no longer refuse , to her tender anxiety , a short detail of the attack which occasioned her disorder ; happy , at least , in reciting it , that by unfolding the cause , there no longer remained any necessity to repress the effects of her affliction . 
To her great surprise , however , Eugenia only said : `` And is this all , my dear Camilla ? '' 
exclaimed Camilla . 
Struck with this plain but uncontrovertible truth , Camilla wiped her eyes , and strove to recover some composure ; but finding her tears still force their way , `` It is not , '' she cried , with some hesitation , `` it is not the aspersions of Miss Margland alone that give me so much vexation -- the unkindness of Indiana -- '' `` Indeed she is highly reprehensible ; and so I will tell her ; -- but still , if she has any fears , however ill-founded , of losing Edgar , you can not but pardon -- you must even pity her . '' 
Struck again , and still more forcibly , by this second truth , Camilla , ashamed of her grief , made a stronger and more serious effort to repress it ; and receiving soon afterwards a summons from her uncle , her spirit rose once more to the relief of her dejection , upon seeing him seated between Miss Margland and Indiana , and discerning that they had been making some successful complaint , by the air of triumph with which they waited her approach . 
`` My dear Camilla , '' he cried , with a look of much disturbance , `` here 's a sad ado , I find ; though I do n't mean to blame you , nor young Mr. Mandlebert neither , taste being a fault one ca n't avoid ; not but what a person 's changing their mind is what I ca n't commend in any one , which I shall certainly let him know , not doubting to bring him round by means of his own sense : only , my dear , in the mean while , I must beg you not to stand in your cousin 's way . '' 
indignantly answered Camilla . 
cried Sir Hugh , fondly embracing her , `` do n't I know you are as innocent as the baby unborn ? 
treachery , my dear Camilla ! 
Indiana , sullenly pouting , spoke not a word ; but Miss Margland , with a tone of plausibility that was some covert to its malice , said `` Why then all may be well , and the young ladies as good friends as ever , and Mr. Mandlebert return to the conduct of a gentleman , only just by Miss Camilla 's doing as she would be done by ; for nothing that all of us can say will have any effect , if she does not discourage him from dangling about after her in the manner he does now , speaking to nobody else , and always asking her opinion about every trifle , which is certainly doing no great justice to Miss Lynmere . '' 
Indiana , with a toss of the head , protested his notice was the last thing she desired . 
Mr. Mandlebert is a very good boy ; and as to your cousin Camilla , I am sure I need not put you in mind how much she is the same ; but I really think , whatever 's the reason , the young youths of now-a-days grow backwarder and backwarder . 
`` Well , then , all that remains is this , '' said Miss Margland , `` let Miss Camilla keep out of Mr. Mandlebert 's way ; and let her order the carriage , and go to Mrs. Arlbery 's to-morrow , and take no notice of his likings and dislikings ; and I 'll be bound for it he will soon think no more of her , and then , of course , he will give the proper attention to Miss Lynmere . '' 
`` O , if that 's all , '' cried Sir Hugh , `` my dear Camilla , I am sure , will do it , and as much again too , to make her cousin easy . 
Camilla hung her head , in speechless perturbation , at a task which appeared to her equally hard and unjust ; but while fear and shame kept her silent , Sir Hugh drew her to Indiana , and a cold , yet unavoidable falute , gave a species of tacit consent to a plan which she did not dare oppose , from the very strength of the desire that urged her opposition . 
They then separated ; Sir Hugh delighted , Miss Margland triumphant , Indiana half satisfied , half affronted , and Camilla with a mind so crowded , a heart so full , she scarcely breathed . 
Sensations the most contrary , of pain , pleasure , hope , and terror , at once assailed her . 
Edgar , of whom so long she had only thought as of the destined husband of Indiana , she now heard named with suspicions of another regard , to which she did not dare give full extension ; yet of which the most distant surmise made her consider herself , for a moment , as the happiest of human beings , though she held herself the next as the most culpable for even wishing it . 
She found Eugenia still in her room , who , perceiving her increased emotion , tenderly enquired , if there were any new cause . 
exclaimed the ardent Camilla , `` for she values not his kindness , she knows not his worth , she is insensible to his virtues ! '' 
`` You judge too hastily , my dear Camilla ; she has not indeed your warmth of heart ; but if she did not wish the union to take place , why would she shew all this disquiet in the apprehension of its breach ? '' 
Camilla , surprised into recollection , endeavoured to become calmer . 
Camilla , convinced , yet shocked , felt the flutter of her heart give a thousand hues to her face , and walking to the window , leaned far out to gasp for breath . 
cried she , struggling to seem more reasonable than she felt . 
Camilla now had not a word to say ; the subject dropt ; she took up a book , and by earnest internal remonstrances , commanded herself to appear at tea-time with tolerable serenity . 
Disappointed and displeased , he hastily put it into his pocket-book , resolving to seek Camilla , and commit the consequences of an interview to the impulses it might awaken . 
The next morning Camilla , sad and unwilling to appear , was the last who entered the breakfast-parlour . 
While she was drinking her first cup of tea , a servant came in , and told her the carriage was ready . 
She coloured , but nobody spoke , and the servant retired . 
Edgar was going to ask the design for the morning , when Miss Margland said -- `` Miss Camilla , as the horses have got to go and return , you had better not keep them waiting . '' 
`` Miss Eugenia , then , '' cried Miss Margland , before Camilla could reply , `` run for your cloak as soon as you have finished your breakfast . '' 
Camilla now lost all courage for resistance ; but feeling her chagrin almost intolerable , quitted the room with her tea underunk , and without making known if she should return or not . 
Camilla , who , in flying to her room , thought of nothing less than preparing for an excursion which she now detested , was again surprised in tears by Eugenia . 
`` What , my dearest Camilla , '' she cried , `` can thus continually affect you ? 
`` My dear Camilla , '' said Eugenia , surprized , yet compassionately , `` if this visit is become so painful to you , relinquish it at once . '' 
At the sound of her footsteps , the horror of her reproaches and insinuations conquered every other feeling , and Camilla , starting up , rushed forward , and saying `` Good morning ! '' 
Edgar was still at the door , and came forward to offer her his hand . 
`` Pray take care of Eugenia , '' she cried , abruptly passing him , and darting , unaided , into the chaise . 
Camilla , who was pulling one of the green blinds up , and again letting it down , twenty times in a minute , affected not to hear him ; but Eugenia answered , `` to the Grove , to Mrs. Arlbery 's . '' 
Miss Margland was just behind him , and conceived this the fortunate instant for eradicating from his mind every favourable pre-possession for Camilla ; assuming , therefore , an air of concern , she said -- `` So , you have found Miss Camilla out , in spite of all her precautions ! 
she would fain not have had you know her frolic . '' 
did Miss Camilla intend -- '' `` O , she intends nothing in the world for two minutes together ! 
only she did not like you should find out her fickleness . 
You know , I told you , before , she was all whim ; and so you will find . 
`` And is not Miss -- '' he was going to say Camilla , but checking himself , finished with -- `` Miss Eugenia , at least , always equal , always consistent ? '' 
`` Why , she is better than Miss Camilla ; but not one among them has any steadiness , or real sweetness , but Miss Lynmere . 
As to Miss Camilla , if she has not her own way , there 's no enduring her , she frets , and is so cross . 
When you put her off , in that frinedly manner , from gadding after a new acquaintance so improper for her , you set her into such an ill humour , that she has done nothing but cry , as you may have seen by her eyes , and worry herself and all of us round , except you , ever since ; but she was afraid of you , for fear you should take her to task , which she hates of all things . '' 
He knew the splenetic nature of Miss Margland , and trusted she might be wrong ; but he knew , too , her opportunities for observation , and dreaded left she might be right . 
Camilla had been certainly low spirited , weeping , and restless ; was it possible it could be for so slight , so unmeaning a cause ? 
His wish was to follow her on horseback ; but this , unauthorized , might betray too much anxiety : he tried not to think of what had been said by Dr. Marchmont , while this cloud hung over her disposition and sincerity ; for whatever might be the malignity of Miss Margland , the breach of a promise , of which the voluntary sweetness had so lately proved his final captivation , could not be doubted , and called aloud for explanation . 
When the chaise drove from Cleves Park , all attempt at any disguise was over with Camilla , who alive only to the horror of appearing ungrateful to Edgar , wept without controul ; and , leaning back in the carriage , entreated Eugenia to dispense with all conversation . 
Eugenia , filled with pity , wondered , but complied , and they travelled near four miles in silence ; when , perceiving , over the paling round a paddock , Mrs. Arlbery and a party of company , Camilla dried her eyes , and prepared for her visit , of which the impetuosity of her feelings had retarded all previous consideration . 
She agreed ; they alighted , and bidding the footman keep with the carriage , which they ordered should drive slowly behind , they proceeded gently , arm in arm , along a clean raised bank by the side of the road , with a pace suiting at once the infirmity of Eugenia , and the wish of delay in Camilla . 
Camilla , extremely ashamed , was now upon the point of begging Eugenia to return , when a new speech seized all her attention . 
A deep sigh escaped Camilla at such publicity in the report and belief of the engagement of Edgar with her cousin , and brought with it a consciousness too strong for any further self-disguise , that her distress flowed not all from an unjust accusation : the sound alone of the union struck as a dagger at her heart , and told her , incontrovertibly , who was its master . 
Her sensations were now most painful : she grew pale , she became sick , and was obliged , in her turn , to lean upon Eugenia , who , affrighted to see her thus strangely disordered , besought her to go back to the chaise . 
Camilla , getting into the carriage , pulled up the blinds , and , no longer self-deceived , lamented in a new burst of sorrow , her unhappy fate , and unpropitious attachment . 
This consciousness , however , became soon a call upon her integrity , and her regret was succeeded by a summons upon propriety . 
She gave herself up as lost to all personal felicity , but hoped she had discovered the tendency of her affliction , in time to avoid the dangers , and the errors to which it might lead . 
She determined to struggle without cessation for the conquest of a partiality she deemed it treachery to indugle ; and to appease any pain she now blushed to have caused to Indiana , by strictly following the hard prescription of Miss Margland , and the obvious opinion of Eugenia , in shunning the society , and no longer coveting the approbation of Edgar . 
These ideas and resolutions , dejecting , yet solacing , occupied her to the forgetfulness of her intended visit , and even of Eugenia , till the words : `` Pray let me come to you , my dear Camilla ! '' 
Eugenia seized the moment of interruption to press forward , and make the call to her sister already mentioned ; Bellamy accompanying and pleading , but no longer venturing to stop her : he handed her , therefore , to the chaise , where Major Cerwood also paid his compliments to the two ladies ; and hearing they were going to the seat of Mrs. Arlbery , whither Camilla now forced herself , though more unwillingly than ever , he ran on , with Bellamy , to be ready to hand them from the carriage . 
This interval was not neglected by either of the gentlemen , for Bellamy was scarce more eager to engage the attention of Eugenia , than the Major to force that of Camilla . 
By Lionel he had been informed she was heiress of Cleves ; he deemed , therefore , the opportunity by no means to be thrown away , of making , what he believed required opportunity alone , a conquest of her young heart . 
Accustomed to think compliments always welcome to the fair , he construed her sadness into softness , and imputed her silence to the confusing impression made upon an inexperienced rural beauty , by the first assiduities of a man of figure and gallantry . 
The gentlemen looked provoked , and Camilla and Eugenia , much disconcerted at so evident a denial , left their names , and returned to their carriage . 
The journey back to Cleves was mute and dejected : Camilla was shocked at the conscious state of her own mind , and Eugenia was equally pensive . 
She had rallied him upon the general rumour of his approaching marriage ; and his confusion , from believing his partiality for Camilla detected , was construed into a confirmation of the report concerning Indiana . 
Edgar justly deemed this a dangerous acquaintance for Camilla , whose natural thoughtlessness and vivacity made him dread the least imprudence in the connexions she might form ; yet , as the reputation of Mrs. Arlbery was unsullied , he felt how difficult would be the task of demonstrating the perils he feared . 
Camilla then begged permission to go in the chaise that was to fetch him , flattering herself something might occur to detain her , when at Etherington . 
All now left the room except Camilla , who , taking up a book , stood still at a window , till she was aroused by the voice of Edgar , who , from the Park , asked her what she was reading . 
She turned over the leaves , ashamed at the question , to look for the title ; she had held the book mechanically , and knew not what it was . 
He then produced the promised nosegay , which had been brought by his gardener during her excursion . 
She softly lifted up the sash , pointing to her sleeping uncle ; he gave it her with a silent little bow , and walked away ; much disappointed to miss an opportunity from which he had hoped for some explanation . 
She held it in her hand some time , scarcely sensible she had taken it , till , presently , she saw its buds bedewed with her falling tears . 
She shook them off , and pressed the nosegay to her bosom . 
`` This , at least , '' she cried , `` I may accept , for it was offered me before that barbarous attack . 
Then , calling upon Camilla , he asked if she was not of that opinion . 
`` Y -- e -- s , Sir , '' she hesitatingly answered . 
Miss Margland , curious to know how Camilla was detained , now re-entered the room . 
Struck with the fond and melancholy air with which she was bending over her nosegay , she abruptly demanded -- `` Pray , where might you get those flowers ? '' 
Covered with shame , she could make no answer . 
`` O , Miss Camilla ! 
Miss Camilla ! 
`` Mr. Mandlebert had promised me them yesterday morning , '' answered she , in a voice scarce audible . 
Do you think it right , Sir , that Miss Camilla should accept nosegays every day from Mr. Mandlebert , when her cousin has had never a one at all ? '' 
`` Why , it 's not her fault , you know , Miss Margland , if young Mr. Mandlebert chuses to give them to her . 
Miss Margland now exultingly held out her hand : the decision was obliged to be prompt ; Camilla delivered up the flowers , and ran into her own room . 
The sacrifice , cried she , is now complete ! 
When summoned to tea , Camilla , upon entering the parlour , found Sir Hugh in mournful discourse with Edgar upon the non-appearance of Dr. Orkborne . 
Edgar felt a momentary disappointment that she did not honour his flowers with wearing them ; but consoled himself with supposing she had preserved them in water . 
In a few minutes , however , Indiana appeared with them in her bosom . 
Almost petrified , he turned towards Camilla , who , affecting an air of unconcern , amused herself with patting a favourite old terrier of her uncle 's . 
answered she , in the same tone ; `` are they not where you must be far happier to see them ? '' 
`` Is it possible , '' exclaimed he , `` Miss Camilla Tyrold can suppose -- '' He stopt , for surprised off his guard , he was speaking loud , and he saw Miss Margland approaching . 
`` Do n't you think , Mr. Mandlebert , '' said she , `` that Miss Lynmere becomes a bouquet very much ? 
he loves her not ! 
thought Camilla , and , while trembling between hope and terror at the suggestion , determined to redouble her circumspection , not to confirm the suspicion that his indifference was produced by her efforts to attach him to herself . 
She had soon what she conceived to be an occasion for its exertion . 
When he handed her some cakes , he said -- `` You would think it , I conclude , impertinent to hear any thing more concerning Mrs. Arlbery , now you have positively opened an acquaintance with her ? '' 
She felt the justice of this implied reproach of her broken promise ; but she saw herself constantly watched by Miss Margland , and repressing the apology she was sighing to offer , only answered -- `` You have nothing , you own , to say against her reputation -- and as to any thing else -- '' `` True , '' interrupted he , `` my information on that point is all still in her favour : but can it be Miss Camilla Tyrold , who holds that to be the sole question upon which intimacy ought to depend ? 
Does she account as nothing manners , disposition , way of life ? '' 
`` No , not absolutely as nothing , '' said she , rising ; `` but taste settles all those things , and mine is entirely in her favour . '' 
His eyes were perpetually following Camilla , though they met not a glance from her in return . 
She played with the terrier , talked with Eugenia , looked out of the window , turned over some books , and did every thing with an air of negligence , that , while it covered absence and anxiety , displayed a studied avoidance of his notice . 
Struck with the broken sentence of `` is it possible Miss Camilla Tyrold can suppose -- '' the soft hope that his heart was untouched by Indiana , seized her delighted imagination ; but the recollection of Miss Margland 's assertions , that it was the real right of her cousin , soon robbed the hope of all happiness , and she could only repeat -- To-morrow I will go ! 
thought Edgar , is this , idle , dissipated , curious -- for Camilla to associate with ! 
-- the lively , the unthinking , the inexperienced Camilla ! 
`` O yes , you may ; '' said she , growing a little apprehensive of some affront , but determined not to seem hurt by it ; `` I am very indifferent to any thing they can say of me , assure yourself ! '' 
`` So then they said , pray does Miss Camilla learn ? 
says they ; -- Lord love her , no ! 
`` Why , they said , they hoped not , and they were glad to hear it , for they liked her the best of all . 
-- '' `` Come , we have heard enough now , '' interrupted Edgar , greatly shocked for poor Eugenia , who fortunately , however , had retired with Camilla . 
Indiana , conscious and glowing at the words handsome couple , could not restrain a simper ; but Edgar , thinking only of Camilla , did not understand it . 
he said to himself : O Camilla ! 
He stopt , and Edgar , who , following the bent of his own thoughts , had till now concluded Camilla to be meant , was utterly confounded by discovering his mistake . 
The presence of Indiana redoubled the aukwardness of the situation , and her blushes , and the increased lustre of her eyes , did not make the report seem either unwelcome , or perfectly new to her . 
`` If he had done wisely , says the lady of the house , he would have left the professed beauty , and taken that pretty Camilla . '' 
`` Camilla is a charming creature , says she ; though she may want a little watching too ; but so does every thing that is worth having . '' 
-- I can never totally dislike her , if she does such justice to Camilla . 
To save her own credit , however , was always her primary consideration ; she resolved , therefore , to cast upon unfair play in Camilla , or upon the instability of Edgar , all the blame really due to her own undiscerning self-sufficiency . 
All the influence of pecuniary motives to which he deemed Camilla superior , occurred to him in the very words of Dr. Marchmont for Indiana ; whose capacity he saw was as shallow as her person was beautiful . 
Yet the admiration with which she had already made her first appearance in the world , might naturally induce her belief of his reported devotion . 
If , therefore , his situation appeared to her to be eligible , she had probably settled to accept him . 
This demanded from him a sacrifice the most painful , that of retiring from Cleves in utter ignorance of the sentiments of Camilla ; yet it seemed the more necessary , since he now , with much uneasiness , recollected many circumstances which his absorbed mind had hitherto suffered to pass unnoticed , that led him to fear Sir Hugh himself , and the whole party , entertained the same notion . 
He was shocked to consider Camilla involved in such a deception , though delighted by the idea that he might perhaps owe to an explanation , some marks of that preference for which Dr. Marchmont had taught him to wait , and which he now hoped might lie dormant from the persuasion of his engagement . 
To clear this mistake was , therefore , every way essential , as otherwise the very purity of her character must be in his disfavour . 
Early the next day , Camilla sent to hasten the chaise which was to fetch Mr. Tyrold , and begged leave of her uncle to breakfast at Etherington . 
His assent was always ready ; and believing every evil would yield to absence , she eagerly , and even with happiness set off . 
When the rest of the party assembled without her , Edgar , surprised , enquired if she were well ? 
This conciliating office was congenial to the disposition of Edgar , and softened his impatience for the return of Camilla , but when , soon after , a note arrived from Mr. Tyrold , requesting Sir Hugh to dispense with seeing him till the next day , and apologising for keeping his daughter , he felt equally disappointed and provoked , though he determined not to delay any longer his departure . 
He gave orders , therefore , for his horses immediately , and with all the less regret , for knowing Camilla no longer in the circle he was to quit . 
`` Not in the least , sir , '' cried Edgar , staggered by a doubt whether he suspected what he felt for Camilla , or referred to what was reported of Indiana . 
The rest of the morning was spent by Sir Hugh in the utmost discomposure ; and by Miss Margland in alternate abuse of Camilla and of Edgar ; while Indiana passed from a piqued and short disappointment , to the consolatory idea that Melmond might now re-appear . 
Edgar rode strait to Beech Park , where he busied himself the whole day in viewing alterations and improvements ; but where nothing answered his expectations , since Camilla had disappointed them . 
The vivacity with which Camilla quitted Cleves , was sunk before she reached Etherington . 
She had quitted also Edgar , quitted him offended , and in doubt if it might ever be right she should vindicate herself in his opinion . 
Yet all seemed strange and unintelligible that regarded the asserted nuptials : his indifference was palpable ; she believed him to have been unaccountably drawn in , and her heart softly whispered , it was herself he preferred . 
From this soothing but dangerous idea , she struggled to turn her thoughts . 
She anticipated the remorse of holding the affections of the husband of her cousin , and determined to use every possible method to forget him -- unless , which she strove vainly not to hope , the reported alliance should never take place . 
These reflections so completely engrossed her the whole way , that she arrived at the Parsonage House , without the smallest mental preparation how to account for her return , or how to plead for remaining at Etherington . 
Foresight , the offspring of Judgment , or the disciple of Experience , made no part of the character of Camilla , whose impetuous disposition was open to every danger of indiscretion , though her genuine love of virtue glowed warm with juvenile ardour . 
She entered , therefore , the breakfast parlour in a state of sudden perplexity what to say ; Mr. Tyrold was alone and writing . 
He looked surprized , but embraced her with his accustomed affection , and enquired to what he owed her present sight . 
She made no answer ; but embraced him again , and enquired after her mother . 
Camilla , extremely grieved , earnestly enquired what had happened . 
He then informed her that Mrs. Tyrold , the very next morning , must abruptly quit them all and set out for Lisbon to her sick brother , Mr. Relvil . 
The conscious and artless Camilla could not bear this undeserved praise . 
She quitted her mother , and returning to Mr. Tyrold , `` O my father ! '' 
she cried , `` if you will take me again under your beloved roof , it is for my sake -- not your 's -- I beg to return ! '' 
Camilla , distressed , hung her head , and would have forborne making any answer . 
Mrs. Tyrold , then , putting down various packets which she was sorting and selecting , came suddenly up to her , and taking both her hands , looked earnestly in her face , saying : `` My Camilla ! 
`` Do not ask me now , my dearest mother , '' answered she , in a faultering voice ; `` when you come back again , no doubt all will be over ; and then -- '' `` And is that the time , Camilla , to speak to your best friends ? 
Camilla , hiding her face on her mother 's bosom , burst afresh into tears . 
If it must invade me again through one of my children , tell me , at least , Camilla , it is not wilfully that you , too , afflict me ? 
`` No , my dearest mother , '' said Camilla , endeavouring to meet her eyes ; `` not wilfully , -- but something has happened -- I can hardly myself tell how or what -- but indeed Cleves , now -- '' she hesitated . 
and I grieve to quit him -- but , indeed , Cleves , now -- '' Again she hesitated . 
Camilla , in the extremest confusion changed colour , but tried vainly to speak . 
Camilla wept again , fondly folding her arms round her mother ; `` I had hoped , '' she cried , `` that I should have come home to peace , comfort , tranquillity ! 
`` Console yourself , my Camilla , that you have not been its cause ; may Heaven ever spare me evil in your shape at least ! 
Camilla now , somewhat recovering , declared she had almost nothing to say ; but her mother continued packing up , and her father went on with his letter . 
She saw a tear in her eye , and again she took both her hands : `` Have you , my Camilla , '' she cried , `` have you told us all ? 
Again the cheeks of Camilla received their fugitive roses . 
`` My dearest mother , '' she cried , `` is not this enough ? 
-- to be accused -- suspected -- and to fear -- '' She stammered , and would have withdrawn her hands ; but Mrs. Tyrold , still holding them , said , `` To fear what ? 
Tears again flowed down the burning cheeks of Camilla , and dropping her eyes , `` Ah , my mother ! '' 
she cried , `` you will think me so frivolous -- you will blush so for your daughter -- if I own -- if I dare confess -- '' Again she stopped , terrified at the conjectures to which this opening might give birth ; but when further and fondly pressed by her mother , she added , `` It is not alone these unjust surmises -- nor even Indiana 's unkind concurrence in them -- but also -- I have been afraid -- I must have made a strange -- a capricious -- an ungrateful appearance in the eyes of Edgar Mandlebert . '' 
Here her voice dropt ; but presently recovering , she rapidly continued , `` I know it is very immaterial -- and I am sensible how foolish it may sound -- but I shall also think of it no more now , -- and therefore , as I have told the whole -- '' She looked up , conscience struck at these last words , to see if they proved satisfactory : she caught , in the countenance of her mother , an expression of deep commiseration , which was followed by a thousand maternal caresses of unusual softness , though unaccompanied by any words . 
Penetrated , yet distressed , she gratefully received them , but rejoiced when , at length , Mr. Tyrold , rising , said , `` Go , my love , up stairs to your sister ; your mother , else , will never proceed with her business . '' 
She gladly ran off , and soon , by a concise narration , satisfied Lavinia , and then calmed her own troubled mind . 
What a wife would Camilla have made him in every stage of their united career ! 
And how unfortunately has she sympathised in my sentiments , that he alone seemed worthy to replace the first and best protector she must relinquish when she quits this house ! 
Neither a mistress nor a slave can make him happy ; a companion is what he requires ; and for that , in a very few months , how vainly his secret soul may sigh , and think of our Camilla ! '' 
They sent for Camilla , to acquaint her they would make her excuses at Cleves : she gave a ready though melancholy consent , and the virtue of her motives drew tears from her idolizing mother , as she clasped her to her heart . 
They then set out together , that Mr. Tyrold might arrange this business with Sir Hugh , of whom and of Eugenia Mrs. Tyrold was to take leave . 
Camilla now felt more permanently revived , because better satisfied with the rectitude of her conduct . 
She could no longer be accused of interfering between Edgar and Indiana ; that affair would take its natural course , and , be it what it might , while absent from both parties , she concluded she should at least escape all censure . 
Peaceably , therefore , she returned to take possession of her usual apartment , affectionately accompanied by her eldest sister . 
Thus copiously gifted with `` all her sex 's softness , '' her society would have contributed to restore Camilla to repose , had they continued together without interruption ; but , in a few minutes , the room door was opened , and Lionel , rushing into the apartment , called out , `` How do , do , my girls ? 
Camilla always rejoiced at his sight ; but Lavinia gravely said , `` I thought , brother , you had been at Dr. Marchmont 's ? '' 
Camilla , what is the matter with thee ? '' 
repeated Camilla . 
`` My dear Lionel , '' said Camilla , `` I am filled with apprehension and perplexity . 
But how came you hither , Camilla ? 
`` Dear Lionel , '' cried Camilla , `` do explain to me what has happened . 
Do n't despise me , Camilla ; I am confounded sorry , I promise you . '' 
`` Come , I had better tell it you myself , '' cried he , `` for she 'll make such a dismal ditty of it , that it wo n't be over this half year ; the sooner we have done with it the better ; it will only put you out of spirits . '' 
`` But you give me some pleasure here , '' said Camilla ; `` for I had never heard that my uncle had made you his heir . '' 
repeated Camilla , with uplifted hands . 
-- O , but , Camilla , I have wanted to ask you this great while , if you think there is any truth in this rumour , that Mandlebert intends to propose to Indiana ? '' 
Camilla , struck , amazed , and delighted , involuntarily embraced her brother ; though , recollecting herself almost at the same moment , she endeavoured to turn off the resistless impulse into taking leave , and hurrying him away . 
Lionel , who to want of solidity and penetration principally owed the errors of his conduct , was easily put upon a wrong scent , and assured her he would take care to be off in time . 
He then suffered his sisters to lead him back to their room , where he cast himself upon a chair , in painful rumination upon his own unworthiness , and his parents excellence ; but the tender soothings of Lavinia and Camilla , who trembled lest his remorse should urge him to some act of violence , soon drew him from reflections of which he hated the intrusion ; and he attended , with complacency , to their youthful security of perfect reconciliations , and re-established happiness . 
For some minutes all were profoundly still ; Lionel then suddenly started up ; the sisters , affrighted , hastily arose at the same instant ; when stretching himself and yawning , he called out , `` Pr ` ythee , Camilla , what is become of that smug Mr. Dubster ? '' 
This quick return of gaiety caused a sigh to Lavinia , and much surprise to Camilla ; but neither of them could prevail with him to depart , till Mr. and Mrs. Tyrold were every moment expected ; they then , though with infinite difficulty , procured his promise that he would go straight to Dr. Marchmont , according to an arrangement made for that purpose by Mrs. Tyrold herself . 
Her own natural and immediate impulse , had been to carry Camilla with her abroad ; but when she considered that her sole errand was to nurse and appease an offended sick man , whose chamber she meant not to quit till she returned to her family , she gave up the pleasure she would herself have found in the scheme , to her fears for the health and spirits of her darling child , joined to the superior joy of leaving such a solace with her husband . 
Sir Hugh had heard the petition for postponing the further visit of Camilla almost with despondence ; but Mr. Tyrold restored him completely to confidence , with respect to his doubts concerning Dr. Orkborne , with whom he held a long and satisfactory conversation ; and his own benevolent heart received a sensible pleasure , when , upon examining Indiana with regard to Edgar , he found her , though piqued and pouting , untouched either in affection or happiness . 
Mrs. Tyrold had taken measures for employing Camilla up stairs , where she did not even hear that he entered the house . 
Willing to establish whether this idea were right , she now considered how she might name Camilla ; but her husband , who for no possible purpose could witness distress without seeking to alleviate it , declined his kind offer , and began a discourse upon the passage to Lisbon . 
All were surprised , but none so much as Camilla , who , forgetting , in sudden emotion , every thing but former kindness and intimacy , delightedly exclaimed -- `` Edgar ! 
Edgar turned to her with a quickness that could only be exceeded by his pleasure ; her voice , her manner , her unlooked-for interest in his appearance , penetrated to his very soul . 
Almost overpowered by his own sudden emotion , he could scarce recollect its motive himself ; while Camilla , fearful and repentant that she had broken her deliberate and well-principled resolutions , retreated to the window . 
Every maternal hope was now awake in Mrs. Tyrold , who concluded this request was to demand Camilla in marriage ; and her husband himself , not without trepidation , took Edgar into his study . 
But Edgar , though his heart was again wholly Camilla 's , had received a look from Dr. Marchmont that guarded him from any immediate declaration . 
`` My dear Edgar , '' said Mr Tyrold , `` I am convinced of your probity . 
-- The chain of thinking which , from painting what he thought insensible in Indiana , led him to describe what he felt to be resistless in Camilla , made him finish the last sentence with an energy that surprised Mr. Tyrold into a smile . 
What had dropt from him appeared to imply a distrust of exciting mutual regard ; yet this , after his own observations upon Camilla , was inconceivable . 
He regretted , that at a period so critical , she must part with her mother , with whom again he now determined to consult . 
He went back to the parlour to take leave once more of Mrs. Tyrold ; but , opening the door , found Camilla there alone . 
She was looking out of the window , and had not heard his entrance . 
Camilla , who had not even missed her mother and sister from the room , was contemplating the horse of Edgar , and internally arraigning herself for the dangerous pleasure she had felt and manifested at the sight of his master . 
He gently shut the door , and approaching her , said , `` Do I see again the same frank and amiable friend , who in earliest days , who always , indeed , till -- '' Camilla , turning round , startled to behold him so near , and that no one else remained in the room , blushed excessively , and without hearing what he said , shut the window ; yet opened it the same minute , stammering out something , but she herself knew not what , concerning the weather . 
He drew a chair near her , and , in penetrating accents , said : `` Will you suffer me , will you , can you permit me , to take the privilege of our long friendship , and honestly to speak to you upon what has passed within these last few days at Cleves ? '' 
She could not answer : surprise , doubt , fear of self-deception , and hope of some happy explanation , all suddenly conspired to confound and to silence her . 
Camilla now began to breathe . 
This last expression , though zealous in friendliness , had nothing of appropriate partiality ; and in losing her hope she resumed her calmness . 
Edgar observed , though he understood not , the change ; but as he wished to satisfy his mind before he indulged his inclination , he endeavoured not to be sorry to see her mistress of herself during the discussion . 
He wished her but to answer him with openness : she still , however , only listened , while she rose and looked about the room for some work . 
Edgar , somewhat disconcerted , waited for her again sitting down ; and after a few minutes spent in a useless search , she drew a chair to a table at some distance . 
Gravely then following , he stood opposite to her , and , after a little pause , said , `` I perceive you think I go too far ? 
`` Do not say so , '' cried she , with emotion ; `` believe me , unless you knew all that had passed , and all my motives , you should judge nothing of these last few days , but think of me only , whether well or ill , as you thought of me a week ago . '' 
Suspicion vanished , trust and admiration took its place , and once more drawing a chair by her side , `` My dear Miss Camilla , '' he cried , `` forgive my having thus harped upon this subject ; I here promise you I will name it no more . '' 
`` And I , '' cried she , delighted , `` promise you '' -- she was going to add , that she would give up Mrs. Arlbery , if he found reason to disapprove the acquaintance ; but the parlour door opened , and Miss Margland stalked into the room . 
So totally , however , had both Edgar and Camilla been engrossed by each other , that they had not heard the carriage drive up to the garden gate , which , with the door of the house , being always open , required neither knocker nor bell . 
A spectre could not more have startled or shocked Camilla . 
She jumped up , with an exclamation nearly amounting to a scream , and involuntarily seated herself at the other end of the room . 
Edgar , though not equally embarrassed , was still more provoked ; but he rose , and got her a chair , and enquired after the health of Sir Hugh . 
`` He is very poorly , indeed , '' answered she , with an austere air , `` and no wonder ! '' 
cried Camilla , alarmed . 
The rest of the family , who had seen the carriage from the windows , now entered the room , and during the mutual enquiries and account which followed , Edgar , believing himself unobserved , glided round to Camilla , and in a low voice , said , `` The promise -- I think I guess its gratifying import -- I shall not , I hope , lose , through this cruel intrusion ? '' 
Camilla , who saw no eyes but those of Miss Margland , which were severely fastened upon her , affected not to hear him , and planted herself in the group out of his way . 
He anxiously waited for another opportunity to put in his claim ; but he waited in vain ; Camilla , who from the entrance of Miss Margland had had the depressing feel of self-accusation , sedulously avoided him ; and though he loitered till he was ashamed of remaining in the house at a period so busy , Miss Margland , by indications not to be mistaken , shewed herself bent upon out-staying him ; he was obliged , therefore , to depart ; though , no sooner was he gone , than , having nothing more to scrutinize , she went also . 
But little doubt now remained with the watchful parents of the mutual attachment of Edgar and Camilla , to which the only apparent obstacle seemed , a diffidence on the part of Edgar with respect to her internal sympathy . 
Pleased with the modesty of such a fear in so accomplished a young man , Mr. Tyrold protested that , if the superior fortune were on the side of Camilla , he would himself clear it up , and point out the mistake . 
Mrs. Tyrold quitted her husband with the most cruel regret , and her darling Camilla with the tenderest inquietude ; she affectionately embraced the unexceptionable Lavinia , with whom she left a message for her brother , which she strictly charged her to deliver , without softening or omitting one word . 
Though unaffectedly beloved , Mrs. Tyrold was deeply feared by all her children , Camilla alone excepted ; by Lionel , from his horror of reproof ; by Lavinia , from the timidity of her humility ; and by Eugenia , from her high sense of parental superiority . 
Camilla alone escaped the contagion ; for while too innocent , too undesigning , wilfully to excite displeasure , she was too gay and too light-hearted to admit apprehension without cause . 
The sight of Lionel in dejection was as sad as it was new to her , and she resolved , in conjunction with Camilla , to spare him till the next day , when his feelings might be less acute . 
Camilla , who , from her affection to him , read his character through the innocence of her own , met his returning gaiety with a pleasure that was proportioned to her pain at his depression ; but Lavinia saw it with discomfort , as the signal for executing her charge , and , with extreme reluctance , gave him to understand she had a command to fulfil to him from his mother . 
She chearfully consented ; and Camilla proposed extending the reprieve to the next day : but not two minutes elapsed , before Lionel protested he could not bear the suspense , and urged an immediate communication . 
`` She can have said nothing , '' cried he , `` worse than I expect , or than I merit . 
She is acting by me like an angel , and if she were to command me to turn anchoret , I know I ought to obey her . '' 
`` Indeed , '' said Camilla , `` he seemed to me an amiable and modest young man , though very romantic . '' 
cried Camilla , half colouring ; `` is not -- is not Edgar Mandlebert -- '' `` O yes , yes ; an odd thing of that sort happens now and then . 
thought Camilla . 
`` We do not say you resemble my father , now , '' said Camilla , archly ; `` but is there any reason why you should not try to do it by and by ? '' 
cried Camilla . 
Lavinia and Camilla , perfectly relieved now from all fears for their brother , repaired to the study of their father , anxious to endeavour to chear him , and to accelerate a meeting and reconciliation for Lionel ; but they found him desirous to be alone , though kindly , and unsolicited , he promised to admit his son before dinner . 
He immediately proposed making a visit to Mrs. Arlbery ; but Lavinia declined presenting herself to a lady who was unknown to her mother ; and Camilla , impressed with the promise she had intended for Edgar , which she was sure , though unpronounced , he had comprehended , dissented also from the motion . 
Mrs. Tyrold , from keeping no carriage , visited but little , and the Grove was not included in her small circle ; Lavinia , therefore , though she knew not how to be peremptory , was steady in refusal ; and Camilla , who would naturally with pleasure have yielded , had a stronger motive for firmness , than any with which she was gifted by discretion , in her wish to oblige Mandlebert . 
But Lionel would listen to neither of them ; and when he found his insistance insufficient , seized Lavinia by one arm , and Camilla by the other , and dragged them up the hill , in defiance of their entreaties , and in full view of the party . 
He then left the more pleading , though less resisting , Lavinia alone ; but pulled Camilla down by the opposite side , with a velocity that , though meant but to bring her to the verge of a small rivulet , forced her into the midst of it so rapidly that he could not himself at last stop : and wetted her so completely , that she could with difficulty , when she got across it , walk on . 
Mrs. Arlbery , who had seen the transaction , came forth now herself , to invite them all into her house , and offer a fire and dry clothing to Camilla ; not sparing , however , her well-merited raillery at the awkward exploit of young Tyrold . 
Camilla , ashamed to be thus seen , would have hidden herself behind her sister , and retreated ; but even Lavinia now , fearing for her health , joined in the request , and she was obliged to enter the house . 
She meant not , however , to inflict the serious penalty which the face of Lionel proclaimed him to be suffering , when he prepared to depart ; and the sisters , who read in it his dread of meeting Mr. Tyrold alone , in the present circumstances of his affairs , conferred together , and agreed that Lavinia should accompany him , both to intercede for returning favour from his father , and to explain the accident of Camilla 's staying at the Grove . 
Notwithstanding the pleasure with which Camilla , in any other situation , would have renewed this acquaintance , was now changed into reluctance , she was far from insensible to the flattering kindness with which Mrs. Arlbery received and entertained her , nor to the frankness with which she confessed , that her invisibility the other morning , had resulted solely from pique that the visit had not been made sooner . 
Camilla would have attempted some apology for the delay , but she assured her apologies were what she neither took nor gave ; and then laughingly added -- `` We will try one another to day , and if we find it wo n't do -- we will shake hands and part . 
She then ordered away all her visitors , without the smallest ceremony ; telling them , however , they might come back in the evening , only desiring they would not be early . 
Camilla stared ; but they all submitted as to a thing of course . 
`` You are not used to my way , I perceive , '' cried she , smiling ; `` yet , I can nevertheless assure you , you can do nothing so much for your happiness as to adopt it . 
She then expressed herself delighted with Lionel , for bringing them together by this short cut , which abolished a world of formalities , not more customary than fatiguing . 
`` I pass , I know , '' continued she , `` for a mere creature of whim ; but , believe me , there is no small touch of philosophy in the composition of my vagaries . 
She then , in a graver strain , and in a manner that proved the laws of politeness all her own , where she chose , for any particular purpose , or inclination , to exert them , hoped this profession of her faith would plead her excuse , that she had thus incongruously made her fair guest a second time enter her house , before her first visit was acknowledged ; and enquired whether it were to be returned at Etherington or at Cleves . 
Camilla answered , she was now at home , on account of her mother 's being obliged to make a voyage to Lisbon . 
She then spoke of the ball , public breakfast , and raffle ; chatting both upon persons and things with an easy gaiety , and sprightly negligence , extremely amusing to Camilla , and which soon , in despight of the unwillingness with which she had entered her house , brought back her original propensity to make the acquaintance , and left no regret for what Lionel had done , except what rested upon the repugnance of Edgar to this intercourse . 
Camilla soon observed she had , personally , nothing to apprehend , peculiar partiality supplying the place of general delicacy , in shielding her from every shaft that even pleasantry could render poignant . 
The embarrassment , therefore , which , in ingenuous youth , checks the attempt to please , by fear of failure , or shame of exertion , gave way to natural spirits , which gaily rising from entertainment received , restored her vivacity , and gradually , though unconsciously , enabled her to do justice to her own abilities , by unaffectedly calling forth the mingled sweetness and intelligence of her character ; and Mrs. Arlbery , charmed with all she observed , and flattered by all she inspired , felt such satisfaction in her evident conquest , that before the tte  tte was closed , their admiration was become nearly mutual . 
She then invited Camilla to return to her the next day for a week . 
Camilla felt well disposed to comply , hoping soon to reason from Edgar his prejudice against a connection that afforded her such singular pleasure ; but to leave her father at this period was far from every wish . 
She excused herself , therefore , saying , she had still six weeks due to her uncle at Cleves , before any other engagement could take place . 
repeated she , laughing ; `` pray never give that If into his decision ; you only put contradiction into people 's heads , by asking what pleases them . 
And as to the world , depend upon it , my dear Miss Tyrold , the more you see of it , the less you will care for it . '' 
She then said she would leave her to re-invest herself in her own attire , and go down stairs , to see what the poor simple souls , who had had no more wit than to come back thus at her call , had found to do with themselves . 
Camilla , having only her common morning dress , and even that utterly spoilt , begged that her appearance might be dispensed with ; but Mrs. Arlbery , exclaiming , `` Why , there are only men ; you do n't mind men , I hope ! '' 
Upon entering the room , Camilla saw again the Officers who had been there in the morning , and who were now joined by Sir Sedely Clarendel . 
She was met at the door by Major Cerwood , who seemed waiting for her appearance , and who made her his compliments with an air that studiously proclaimed his devotion . 
She seated herself by the side of Mrs. Arlbery , to look on at a game of chess , played by Sir Sedley and General Kinsale . 
All the gentleman grouped round him to hear further particulars , except Mr. Macdersey , the young Ensign , who had so unguardedly exposed himself at the Northwick ball , and who now , approaching Camilla , fervently exclaimed ; `` How happy I should have been , madam , if I had had the good fortune to see you meet with that accident this morning , instead of being looking another way ! 
Major Cerwood took in charge all attendance upon Camilla ; but he was not , therefore , exempt from the assiduities required by Mrs. Arlbery , for whom the homage of the General , the Colonel , and the Ensign , were insufficient ; and who , had a score more been present , would have found occupation for them all . 
`` What a cruelty , '' said the Major , looking with a sigh towards Camilla , `` to remind your unhappy prey they are but birds of passage ! '' 
Then , addressing Camilla , she proposed , though without moving , that they should converse with one another , and leave the men to take care of themselves . 
`` And excessively they will be obliged to me , '' she continued , without lowering her voice , `` for giving this little holiday to their poor brains ; for , I assure you , they have not known what to say this half hour . 
Camilla , though surprised , was delighted by such a testimony to the respectability of her father ; and , with more courage , said -- `` And , I am sure , if you knew my mother , you would allow her the same exemption . '' 
`` Ah , madam , '' said Camilla , shaking her head ; `` I fear , on the contrary , if they came under your examination , there is not one is whom you would not discern some foible ! '' 
`` I should not like them at all the worse for that ; for , between ourselves , my dear Miss Tyrold , I am half afraid they might find a foible or two in return in me ; so you must not be angry if I beg the favour of you to indulge me with a few of their defects . '' 
Camilla laughed at this ridiculous reasoning , but would not enter into its consequences . 
Camilla tried vainly to look grave . 
Camilla now tried as vainly to look gay . 
`` But why , ma'am , '' cried Camilla , checking a sigh , `` are you glad for my sake ? '' 
`` And would both those reasons , '' cried Camilla , again laughing , `` make against me ? '' 
`` By the way , my dear Miss Tyrold , and apropos to this Miss Lynmere , '' said Mrs. Arlbery , `` do tell me something about Mr. Mandlebert -- what is he ? 
-- '' cried Camilla , stammering , `` he was a ward of my father 's -- '' `` O , I do n't mean all that ; but what is his style ? 
My dear Miss Tyrold , did you ever see any poor people , that pretended at all to walk about , and mingle with the rest of the world , like living creatures , so completely lethargic ? 
cried Camilla . 
This mode of displaying airs and graces was so perfectly new to Camilla , that the commands issued , and the obedience paid , were equally amusing to her . 
Brought up herself to be contented with whatever came in her way , in preference either to giving trouble , or finding fault , the ridiculous , yet playful wilfulness with which she saw Mrs. Arlbery send every one upon her errands , yet object to what every one peformed , presented to her a scene of such whimsical gaiety , that her concern at the accident which had made her innocently violate her intended engagement with Edgar , was completely changed into pleasure , that thus , without any possible self blame , an acquaintance she had so earnestly desired was even by necessity established : and she returned home at night with spirits all revived , and eloquent in praise of her new favourite . 
Mr. Tyrold , according to the system of recreation which he had settled with his wife , saw with satisfaction the pleasure with which Camilla began this new acquaintance , in the hope it would help to support her spirits during the interval of suspense with regard to the purposes of Mandlebert . 
Mr. Tyrold , who with surprize and concern at a coldness so dilatory , found a second day wearing away without a visit from Mandlebert , gladly consented to allow of an amusement , that might shake from Camilla the pensiveness into which , at times , he saw her falling . 
The Etherington trio met with a reception the most polite , and Camilla was distinguished by marks of peculiar favour . 
Few guests were added to the party she had met there before , except the young lady who was its present foundress ; and whose voice she recollected to have heard , in the enquiries which had reached her ear from within the paddock . 
Camilla required nothing further for entertainment than to listen to her new friend ; Lavinia , though more amazed than amused , always modestly hung back as a mere looker on ; and the company in general made their diversion from viewing , through various glasses , the seats of the neighbouring gentlemen , and re-viewing , with yet more scrutiny , their characters and circumstances . 
Mrs. Arlbery would not listen to this , but waited with Lavinia and Camilla the event . 
Mrs. Arlbery descended with her young party , and the ensign , in mock heroics , solemnly prostrated himself to Miss Dennel , pouring into her delighted ears , from various shreads and scraps of different tragedies , the most high flown and egregiously ill-adapted compliments : while the Major , less absurdly , though scarce less passionately , made Camilla his Juliet , and whispered the tenderest lines of Romeo . 
The surprised and always unguarded Camilla , uttered an involuntary exclamation , which instantly catching his ear , drew his eye towards the exclaimer , and there fixed it ; with an astonishment which suspended wholly his half made bow , and beginning address to Mrs. Arlbery . 
The visit therefore of Mandlebert not being designed for her , afforded her at first no gratification , and produced rather a contrary feeling , when she observed the total absence of all pleasure in the surprise with which he met Camilla at her house . 
She gave him a reception of cold civility , and then chatted almost wholly with the General , or Sir Sedley . 
Amazement at seeing Camilla under this roof , disappointment at her breach of implied promise , and mortification at the air of being at home , which he thought he remarked in her situation , though at an acquaintance he had taken so much pains to keep aloof from her , all conspired to displease and perplex him ; and though his eyes could with difficulty look any other way , he neither spoke to nor approached her . 
Nor was even thus meeting her all he had to give him disturbance ; the palpable devoirs of Major Cerwood incensed as well astonished him ; for , under pretext of only following the humour of the day , in affecting to act the hero in love , the Major assailed her , without reserve , with declarations of his passion , which though his words passed off as quotations , his looks and manner made appropriate . 
Camilla felt confounded by his presence , from the consciousness of the ill opinion she must excite by this second apparent disregard of a given engagement . 
She would fain have explained to him it 's history ; but she could not free herself from the Major , whose theatrical effusions were not now to be repressed , since , at first , she had unthinkingly attended to them . 
Lavinia called vainly after her brother ; but Camilla , hoping every instant she might clear her conduct to Edgar , was not sorry to be detained . 
Camilla , picking it up , to render the affair merely burlesque , pulled off the maid 's cap from her brother 's head , and put on the wig in its place , saying -- `` There , Lionel , you have played the part of Lady Wrong Head long enough ; be so good now as to perform that of Sir Francis . '' 
The last words of Dr. Marchmont , in taking leave of Edgar , were injunctions to circumspection , and representations of the difficulty of drawing back with honour , if once any incautious eagerness betrayed his partiality To this counsel he was impelled to submit , lest he should risk for Camilla a report similar to that which for Indiana had given him so much disturbance . 
He had distinguished her by no particular attention , singled her out by no pointed address , taken no pains to engage her good opinion , and manifested no flattering pleasure at her approach or presence . 
His sense of right was too just to mislead him into giving himself similar absolution with respect to Camilla . 
Yet the idea excited regret without remorse ; for though it had been his wish , as well as intention , to conceal his best hopes , till they were ratified by his judgment , he had the conscious integrity of knowing that , should her heart become his prize , his dearest view in life would be to solicit her hand . 
To preserve , therefore , the appearance of an undesigning friend of the house , he had forced himself to refrain , for two days , from any visit to the rectory , whither he was repairing , when thus , unlooked and unwished for , he surprized Camilla at the Grove . 
Disappointed and disapproving feelings kept him , while there , aloof from her ; by continual suggestions , that her character was of no stability , that Dr. Marchmont was right in his doubts , and Miss Margland herself not wrong in accusing her of caprice ; and when he perceived , upon her preparing to walk home with her brother and sister , that Major Cerwood stept forward to attend her , he indignantly resolved to arrange without delay his continental excursion . 
But again , when , as she quitted the room , he saw her head half turned round , with an eye of enquiry if he followed , he determined frankly , and at once , in his capacity of a friend , to request some explanation of this meeting . 
The assiduities of the Major made it difficult to speak to her ; but the aid of her desire for a conversation , which was equally anxious , and less guarded than his own , anticipated his principal investigation , by urging her , voluntarily to seize an opportunity of relating to him the history of her first visit to Mrs. Arlbery ; and of assuring him that the second was indispensably its consequence . 
Softened by this apparent earnestness for his good opinion , all his interest and all his tenderness for her returned ; and though much chagrined at the accident , or rather mischief , which had thus established the acquaintance , he had too little to say , whatever he had to feel , of positive weight against it , to propose its now being relinquished . 
He thanked her impressively for so ready an explanation ; and then gently added ; `` I know your predilection in favour of this lady , and I will say nothing to disturb it ; but as she is yet new to you , and as all residence , all intercourse , from your own home or relations , is new to you also -- tell me , candidly , sincerely tell me , can you condescend to suffer an old friend , though in the person of but a young man , to offer you , from time to time , a hint , a little counsel , a few brief words of occasional advice ? 
`` If you , '' cried she , gaily , `` will give me the reflection , I promise , to the best of my power , to give you in return , the seriousness ; but I can by no means engage for both ! '' 
Though cruelly vexed by the interruption , he could not refuse to turn back with him ; and Camilla again was left wholly to the gallant Major ; but her heart felt so light that she had thus cleared herself to Edgar , so gratified by his request to become himself her monitor , and so enchanted to find her acquaintance with Mrs. Arlbery no longer disputed , that she was too happy to admit any vexation ; and the Major had never thought her so charming , though of the Major she thought not one moment . 
I do n't know what 's to be done to you ; but if you have any inclination to save poor Camilla 's eyes , or cap , at least , from that meek , tender creature , you 'll set off for Cleves before they know you are in this house . '' 
The contempt of Edgar for Miss Margland would have made him disdain another question , if the name of Camilla had not been mingled in this relation ; no question , however , could procure further information . 
Lavinia expressed , most innocently , her curiosity to know what this meant ; and was going for Camilla , to assist in some conjecture ; but Edgar , who by this strange story had lost his composure , felt unequal to hearing it discussed in her presence , and , pleading sudden haste , rode away . 
Miss Margland , promising he should have an answer in a few days , then dismissed him ; but more irritated than ever against Mandlebert , from the contrast of his power to make settlements , she burst forth into her old declarations of his ill usage of Miss Lynmere ; attributing it wholly to the contrivances of Camilla , whom she had herself , she said , surprized wheedling Edgar into her snares , when she called last at Etherington ; and who , she doubted not , they should soon hear was going to be married to him . 
Sir Hugh always understood literally whatever was said ; these assertions therefore of ill humour , merely made to vent black bile , affected him deeply for the honour and welfare of Camilla , and he hastily sent a messenger for Edgar , determining to beg , if that were the case , he would openly own the whole , and not leave all the blame to fall all upon his poor niece . 
When Edgar arrived , Sir Hugh told him of the affair , assuring him he should never have taken amiss his preferring Camilla , which he thought but natural , if he had only done it from the first . 
Early the next morning , the carriage of Sir Hugh arrived at the rectory for Camilla . 
The blush of pleasure , with which Camilla heard the first sentence of this speech , became the tingle of shame at the second , and whitened into surprise and sorrow at the last . 
Camilla disdained to understand this but in a general sense , and made no answer . 
Indiana , pouting her lip , said she was sure she did not want to catch him : she did not fear having offers enough without him , if she should happen to chuse to marry . 
Camilla now breathed hard with resentment ; but still was silent , and Indiana , answering only for herself , said : `` O , yes ! 
Camilla , now , absolutely called upon to speak , with all the spirit she could assume , said , `` With regard to me , there is no occason to remind me how much I am out of the question ; yet suffer me to say , respect for myself would secure me from forming such plans as you surmise , if no other sense of propriety could save me from such humiliation . '' 
`` I hope so too , '' answered Camilla , turning pale ; `` but I do n't suppose -- I ca n't imagine -- that it is very likely he should have mentioned any thing good or bad -- with regard to his care for me ? '' 
`` This indeed , '' said Camilla , colouring with indignation , `` this has been a most useless , a most causeless enquiry ! '' 
Camilla felt half killed by this answer ; and presently quitting the room , ran out into the garden , and to a walk far from the house , before she had power to breathe , or recollection to be aware of the sensibility she was betraying . 
She then as hastily went back , secretly resolving never more to think of him , and to shew both to himself and to the world , by every means in her power , her perfect indifference . 
She could not , however , endure to encounter Miss Margland again , but called for Lionel , and begged him to hurry the coachman . 
Lionel complied -- she took a hasty leave of her uncle , and only saying , `` Good by , good by ! '' 
to the rest , made her escape . 
Sir Hugh , ever unsuspicious , thought her merely afraid to detain her brother ; but Eugenia , calm , affectionate , and divested of cares for herself , saw evidently that something was wrong , though she divined not what , and entreated leave to go with her sister to Etherington , and thence to return , without keeping out the horses . 
The presence of Lionel stifled the enquiries of Eugenia ; and pride , all up in arms , absorbed every softer feeling in Camilla . 
Camilla now , by the language and the voice , gathered that this was Mr. Dubster . 
Camilla , much provoked , earnestly called to her brother , but utterly in vain . 
Camilla declared she had no time to alight ; but Lionel insisted , and soon forced them both from the coach . 
They courtsied slightly , and Camilla said she was very sorry to break in upon him . 
And then , recollecting Eugenia , `` Good lauk , ma'am , '' said he , in a low voice to Camilla , `` that 's that same lame little lady as I saw at the ball ? '' 
`` That lady , sir , '' answered she , provoked , `` is my sister . '' 
Lionel declared he would borrow Jacob 's mare , and join them , while his sisters walked about the grounds : but Camilla , taking him aside , made a serious expostulation , protesting that her father , with all his indulgence , and even her uncle himself , would be certainly displeased , if he left them alone with this man ; of whom they knew nothing but his very low trade . 
Eugenia , not aware this misfortune was so glaring , felt much hurt by this speech ; and Camilla , very angry with its speaker , sought to silence him by resentful look ; but not observing it ; `` Pray , ma'am , '' he continued , `` was it a fall ? 
Eugenia looked struck and surprized ; and Camilla hastily whispered it was a fall , and bid him say no more about it ; but , not understanding her , `` I take it , then , '' he said , `` that was what stinted your growth so , Miss ? 
Camilla here , without waiting for help , slid down into the intended grotto , and asked a thousand questions to change the subject ; while Eugenia , much disconcerted , slowly followed , aided by Lionel . 
This provoked him very seriously ; and turning to Camilla , rather indignantly , he said -- `` Really , ma'am , I wish you 'd tell your brother , I should take it as a favour he 'd never serve me o ' this manner no more ! '' 
She hoped , she said , he would in future be more considerate . 
Camilla and Eugenia , both frightened , besought that they might have any thing , and every thing , that could appease them ; but Mr. Dubster was inflexible not to submit to imposition , because of a few foul words ; `` For , dear heart , '' said he , `` what harm will they do us ! 
Camilla and Eugenia now , tired of vain application to Mr. Dubster , who heard all this abuse with the most sedate unconcern , advanced themselves to the window ; and Eugenia , ever foremost where money was to be given , began -- `` Good women -- '' when , with a violent loud shout , they called out -- `` What ! 
Eugenia , astonished and confounded , made no farther attempt ; but Camilla , though at that moment she could have inflicted any punishment upon such unprovoked assailants , affected to give but little weight to what they said , and gently drew her away . 
cried one of the women , as she moved off , `` why , Miss , do you walk upon your knees ? '' 
Eugenia , to whom such language was utterly new , was now in such visible consternation , that Camilla , affrighted , earnestly charged Mr. Dubster to find any means , either of menace or of reward , to make them depart . 
them gentlemen that are coming here , shall take you before the justice , for affronting Sir Hugh 's Tyrold 's Heiresses to all his fortunes . '' 
Eugenia , who , as there was no seat , had sunk upon the floor for rest and for refuge , remained silent , and seemed almost petrified ; while Camilla , affectionately leaning over her , began talking upon other subjects , in hopes to dissipate a shock she was ashamed to console . 
She made no reply , no comment ; but , sighed deeply . 
Camilla then saw it was Major Cerwood . 
She explained to him the mischievous frolick of her brother , and accepted his offered services to find the ladder and the carriage . 
The object of the Major was not Eugenia ; her taciturnity therefore did not affect him ; but pleased to be shut up with Camilla , he soon found out that though to mount had been easy , to descend would be difficult ; and , after various mock efforts , pronounced it would be necessary to wait till some assistance arrived from below : adding , young Mr. Tyrold would soon return , as he had seen him in the hunt . 
Camilla , whose concern now was all for her sister , heard this with indifference ; but Mr. Dubster lost all patience . 
`` Surely , Major , '' cried Camilla , `` my brother can not be much longer before he joins us ? 
Here , to his inexpressible relief , Lionel , from the road , hailed them ; and Camilla , with emotion the most violent , perceived Edgar was by his side . 
Edgar , having met Lionel , and heard from him how and where he had left his sisters , had impatiently ridden with him to their relief ; but when he saw that the Major made one in the little party , and that he was standing by Camilla , he felt hurt and amazed , and proceeded no farther . 
Camilla believed herself careless of his opinion ; what she had heard from Miss Margland of his professed indifference , gave her now as much resentment , as at first it had caused her grief . 
She thought such a declaration an unprovoked indignity ; she deigned not even to look at him , resolved for ever to avoid him ; yet to prove herself , at the same time , unmortified and disengaged , talked cheerfully with the Major . 
Eugenia was first assisted ; for Camilla talked on with the Major , as if not hearing she was called : and Mr. Dubster , his complaisance wholly worn out , next followed , bowing low to every one separately , and begging pardon , but saying he could really afford to waste no more time , without going to give a little look after his workmen , to see if they were alive or dead . 
Camilla remained alone ; Edgar , slowly mounting the ladder , gravely offered his services ; but , hastily leaning out of the window , she pretended to be too much occupied in watching the motions of the Major and his horse , to hear or attend to any thing else . 
A sigh now tore the heart of Edgar , from doubt if this were preference to the Major , or the first dawn of incipient coquetry ; but he called not upon her again ; he stood quietly behind , till the horse was seized , and the Major re-ascended the ladder . 
This appeared to Camilla a fortunate moment for making a spirited display of her indifference : she gave her hand to the Major , and , slightly courtesying to Edgar as she passed , was conducted to the carriage of her uncle . 
He hardly breathed the whole way from indignation ; yet his wrath was without definition , and nearly beyond comprehensibility even to himself , till suddenly recurring to the lovely smile with which Camilla had accepted the assistance of Major Cerwood , he involuntarily clasped his hands and called out : `` O happy Major ! '' 
Yet , recollecting the disclaiming speeches he had been compelled to make at Cleves , he thought , if she had heard them , she might be actuated by resentment . 
Even then , however , her manner of shewing it was alarming , and fraught with mischief . 
He reflected with fresh repugnance upon the gay and dissipated society with which she was newly mixing , and which , from her extreme openness and facility , might so easily , yet so fatally , sully the fair artlessness of her mind . 
He then felt tempted to hint to Mr. Tyrold , who , viewing all things , and all people in the best light , rarely foresaw danger , and never suspected deception , the expediency of her breaking off this intercourse , till she could pursue it under the security of her mother 's penetrating protection . 
But it occurred to him , next , it was possible the Major might have pleased her . 
To speak to her openly , he thought the surest as well as fairest way , and resolved , with whatever anguish , should he find the Major favoured , to aid her choice in his fraternal character , and then travel till he should forget her in every other . 
For this purpose , it was necessary to make immediate enquiry into the situation of the Major , and then , if she would hear him , relate to her the result ; well assured to gather the state of her heart upon this subject , by her manner of attending to the least word by which it should be introduced . 
Camilla , meanwhile , was somewhat comforted by the exertion she had shewn , and by her hopes it had struck Edgar with respect . 
The next morning , Sir Hugh sent for her again , and begged she would pass the whole day with her sister Eugenia , and use all her pretty ways to amuse her ; for she had returned home , the preceding morning , quite moped with melancholy , and had continued pining ever since ; refusing to leave her room , even for meals , yet giving no reason for her behaviour . 
What had come to her he could not tell ; but to see her so , went to his heart ; for she had always , he said , till now , been chearful and even tempered , though thinking over her learning made her not much of a young person . 
Camilla flew up stairs , and found her , with a look of despondence , seated in a corner of her room , which she had darkened by nearly shutting all the shutters . 
She knew but too well the rude shock she had received , and sought to revive her with every expression of soothing kindness . 
But she shook her head , and continued mute , melancholy , and wrapt in meditation . 
More than an hour was spent thus , the strict orders of Sir Hugh forbidding them any intrusion : but when , at length , Camilla ventured to say , `` Is it possible , my dearest Eugenia , the passing insolence of two or three brutal wretches can affect you thus deeply ? '' 
She awakened from her silent trance , and raising her head , while something bordering upon resentment began to kindle in her breast , cried , `` Spare me this question , Camilla , and I will spare you all reproach . '' 
`` What reproach , my dear sister , '' cried Camilla , amazed , `` what reproach have I merited ? '' 
`` The reproach , '' answered she , solemnly ; `` that , from me , all my family merit ! 
She would now have shut herself into her book-closet ; but Camilla , forcing her way , and almost kneeling to be heard , conjured her to drive such cruel ideas from her mind , and to treat the barbarous insults that she had suffered with the contempt they deserved . 
`` Camilla , '' said she , firmly ; `` I am no longer to be deceived nor trifled with . 
Camilla , terrified , besought her to form no such plan , bewailed the unfortunate adventure of the preceding day , inveighed against the inhuman women , and pleaded the love of all her family with the most energetic affection . 
`` Those women , '' said she , calmly , `` are not to blame ; they have been untutored , but not false ; and they have only uttered such truths as I ought to have learnt from my cradle . 
-- Leave me , Camilla ; give notice to my Uncle he must find me some retreat . 
She then positively insisted upon being left . 
Camilla , penetrated with her undeserved , yet irremediable distress , still continued at her door , supplicating for readmittance in the softest terms ; but without any success till the second dinner bell summoned her down stairs . 
She then fervently called upon her sister to speak once more , and tell her what she must do , and what say ? 
-- But yet -- at the age of fifteen -- at the instant of entering into the world -- at the approach of forming a connection which -- O Camilla ! 
The least impatience from Eugenia was too rare to be opposed ; and Camilla , who , in common with all her family , not withstanding her extreme youth , respected as much as she loved her , sought only to appease her by promising compliance . 
She gave to her , therefore , an unresisted , though unreturned embrace , and went to the dining parlour . 
Sir Hugh was much disappointed to see her without her sister ; but she evaded any account of her commission till the meal was over , and then begged to speak with him alone . 
Gently and gradually she disclosed the source of the sadness of Eugenia : but Sir Hugh heard it with a dismay that almost overwhelmed him . 
All his contrition for the evils of which , unhappily , he had been the cause , returned with severest force , and far from opposing her scheme of retreat , he empowered Camilla to offer her any residence she chose ; and to tell her he would keep out of her sight , as the cause of all her misfortunes ; or give her the immediate possession and disposal of his whole estate , if that would make her better amends than to wait till his death . 
`` My dear , '' said he , `` you shall judge just what you think fit , which is the least thing I can do for you , after your being so kind as to forgive me ; which I hope to do nothing in future not to deserve more ; meaning always to ask my brother 's advice ; which might have saved me all my worst actions , if I had done it sooner : for I 've used poor Camilla no better ; except not giving her the small pox , and that bad fall . 
cried Camilla , throwing her arms round his neck , while Eugenia embraced his knees , `` what language is this for nieces who owe so much to your goodness , and who , next to their parents , love you more than any thing upon earth ! '' 
Camilla left them in the evening , with a promise to return the next day ; and with every anxiety of her own , lost in pity for her innocent and unfortunate sister . 
She was soon , however , called back to herself , when , with what light yet remained , she saw Edgar ride up to the coach door . 
Edgar had already been to the Parsonage House , but hearing Camilla was at Cleves , had made a short visit , and determined to walk his horse upon the road till he met the carriage of Sir Hugh ; believing he could have no better opportunity of seeing her alone . 
He asked how she did ; desired news of the health of all the family one by one ; and then , struck by the coldness of her answers , suffered the carriage to drive on . 
Confounded at so sudden a loss of all presence of mind , he continued , for a minute or two , just where she left him ; and then galloped after the coach , and again presented himself at its window . 
He stopt ; but she did not speak . 
Her first sensation at his sight had been wholly indignant : but when she found he had something to say which he knew not how to pronounce , her curiosity was awakened , and she looked earnest for an explanation . 
`` I know , '' he resumed , with considerable hesitation , `` that to give advice and to give pain is commonly the same thing : -- I do not , therefore , mean -- I have no intention -- though so lately you allowed me a privilege never to be forgotten '' -- He could not get on ; and his embarrassment , and this recollection , soon robbed Camilla of every angry emotion . 
She looked down , but her countenance was full of sensibility , and Edgar , recovering his voice , proceeded -- `` My Quixotism , I was going to say , of this morning , though for a person of whom I know almost nothing , would urge me to every possible effort -- were I certain the result would give pleasure to the person for whom alone -- since with regard to himself , -- I -- it is merely -- '' Involved in expressions he knew not how to clear or to finish , he was again without breath : and Camilla , raising her eyes , looked at him with astonishment . 
-- Still wholly in the dark as to his aim , yet , satisfied by these last words , it had no reference to himself , she now lost enough of the acuteness of her curiosity to dare avow what yet remained ; and begged him , without further preface , to be more explicit . 
Stammering , he then said , that the evident admiration with which a certain gentleman was seen to sigh in her train , had awakened for him an interest , which had induced some inquiries into the state of his prospects and expectations . 
cried she , suddenly seizing the whole of the meaning -- `` not for me ? 
A flash of involuntary delight beamed in the eyes of Edgar at these words : he had almost thanked her , he had almost dropt the reins of his horse to clasp his hands : but filled only with her own emotions , without watching his , or waiting for any answer , she coldly bid him good night , and called to the coachman to drive fast home . 
Momentary , however , was the pleasure such a thought could afford him ; -- `` O , Camilla , '' he cried , `` if , indeed , I might hope from you any partiality , why act any part at all ? 
Camilla went on to Etherington in deep distress ; every ray of hope was chaced from her prospects , with a certainty more cruel , though less offensive , to her feelings , than the crush given them by Miss Margland . 
she cried ; he even destines me for another ! 
She rejoiced , however , that she had made so decided an answer with regard to Major Cerwood , whom she could not doubt to be the person meant , and who , presented in such a point of view , grew utterly odious to her . 
The tale she had to relate to Mr. Tyrold , of the sufferings and sad resolution of Eugenia , obviated all comment upon her own disturbance . 
These reflections , and the thoughts of her sister , led at once and aided Camilla to stifle her own unhappiness ; and for three days following , she devoted herself wholly to Eugenia . 
On the morning of the fourth , instead of sending the carriage , Sir Hugh arrived himself to fetch Camilla , and to tell his brother , he must come also , to give comfort to Eugenia ; for , though he had thought the worst was over , because she appeared quiet in his presence , he had just surprised her in tears , by coming upon her unawares . 
The carriage was now announced ; Eugenia , with reluctant steps , descended ; Camilla was called to join them , and Sir Hugh saw them set off with the utmost delight . 
She then , clinging to her father , could not stir another step , and cast upon him a look of appeal and reproach that almost overset him ; but , after speaking to her some words of kindness , he urged her to go on , and alone , saying , `` Throw only a shilling to the senseless little crew , and let Camilla follow and give nothing , and see which will become the most popular . '' 
They both obeyed , Eugenia fearfully and with quickness casting amongst them some silver , and Camilla quietly walking on . 
The children then , dancing up to Camilla , begged her charity ; but when , seconding the palpable intention of her father , she said she had nothing for them , they looked highly dissatisfied , while they redoubled their blessing to Eugenia . 
Eugenia felt so much hurt by this untimely sight , that , after a single glance , which confirmed the truth of what he said , she bent her eyes another way ; while Camilla herself was astonished that her kind father should call their attention to beauty , at so sore and critical a juncture . 
Camilla , fearing they should seem impertinent , would have retreated ; but Eugenia , much struck , sadly , yet with earnestness , compelled herself to regard the object before her , who was young , fair , of a tall and striking figure , with features delicately regular . 
Mr. Tyrold immediately moved off without speaking ; Camilla , penetrated for her sister , observed the same silence ; and Eugenia , hanging upon her father , and absorbed in profound rumination , only by the depth of her sighs made her existence known ; and thus , without the interchange of a word , slowly and pensively they walked back to the carriage . 
The affectionate Camilla , throwing her arms about them both , bathed each with the tears of joy and admiration , which this soothing conclusion to an adventure so severe excited . 
Camilla was deeply penetrated by the whole of this affair . 
Though checked by shame , she had some desire to consult Camilla ; but she could not see her in time , Mrs. Arlbery having insisted upon carrying her in the evening to a play , which was to be performed , for one night only , by a company of passing strollers at Northwick . 
But fearing she might be moved to some sympathy by his grief , she resolved to be accompanied by Camilla , and deferred , therefore , the interview till the next day . 
Camilla , though her personal sorrows were blunted by the view of the calamities and resignation of her sister , was so little disposed for amusement , that she had accepted the invitation of Mrs. Arlbery , only from wanting spirit to resist its urgency . 
The attentive Major was ready to offer his hand to Camilla upon her arrival . 
The play was Othello ; and so miserably represented , that Lavinia would willingly have retired after the first scene : but the native spirits of Camilla revisited her in the view of the ludicrous personages of the drama . 
She thought him the least comprehensible person she had ever known ; but as he was totally indifferent to her , his oddity entertained without tormenting her . 
Mrs. Arlbery , though for some time she had been as well diverted by the play as Camilla , less new to such exhibitions , was soon tired of the sameness of the blunders , and , at the end of the fourth act , proposed retiring . 
But Camilla , who had long not felt so much entertained , looked so disappointed , that her good humour overcame her fatigue , and she was insisting upon staying ; when a gentleman , who visited them from the opposite box , proposed that the young ladies should be carried home by his mother , a lady who lived at Etherington , and was acquainted at the rectory , and who intended to stay out not only the play but the farce . 
The General guarded the eldest sister ; the Major took care of Camilla : but they were all stopt in their passage by the sudden seizure of a pickpocket , and forced hastily back to the box they had quitted . 
This commotion , though it had disturbed all the audience , had not stopt the performance ; and Desdemona being just now discovered in bed , Camilla , not to lose the interesting scene , persuaded her sister to wait till the play was over , before they attempted again to cross to the opposite box ; into which , in a few minutes after , she saw Mandlebert enter . 
They had both already seated themselves as much out of sight as possible ; and Camilla now began to regret she had not accompanied Mrs. Arlbery . 
She had thought only of the play and its entertainment , till the sight of Mandlebert told her that her situation was improper ; and the idea only occured to her by considering that it would occur to him . 
Mandlebert had dined out with a party of men , and had stept in to see what was going forwards , without any knowledge whom he should meet : he instantly discerned Lavinia , and felt anxious to know why Camilla was not with her , and why she sat so much out of sight : but Camilla so completely hid herself , he could only see there was a female , whom he concluded to be some Etherington lady ; and he determined to make further enquiry when the act should be over . 
The performance now became so truly ludicrous , that Camilla , notwithstanding all her uneasiness , was excited to almost perpetual laughter . 
Desdemona , either from the effect of a bad cold , or to give more of nature to her repose , breathed so hard , as to raise a general laugh in the audience ; Sir Sedley , stopping his ears , exclaimed , `` O ! 
The suffocating was now beginning ; but just as Desdemona begged to be spared -- `` But alf han our '' -- the door-keeper forced his way into the the pit , and called out -- `` Pray , is one Miss Tyrold here in the play-house ? '' 
While wondering what this could mean , the play was finished , when one of the comedians , a brother of the Worcestershire Desdemona , came to the pit door , calling out -- `` Hi 'm desired to hask his Miss Camilla Tyrold 's hany way ere hin the ouse , for hi 'm hordered to call er hout , for her Huncle 's hill and dying . '' 
A piercing shriek from Camilla now completed the interruption of all attention to the performance , and betrayed her hiding place . 
Concealment , indeed , was banished her thoughts , and she would herself have opened the box door to rush out , had not the Major anticipated her , seizing , at the same time , her hand to conduct her through the crowd . 
Camilla had no thought but to get instantly to Cleves ; she considered not how ; she only forced herself rapidly on , persuaded she could walk it in ten minutes , and ejaculating incessantly , `` My Uncle ! 
Camilla , in a broken voice , answered she had no carriage , and should walk . 
Scarce in her senses , she hurried on without reply . 
`` What carriage did you come in , Miss Tyrold ? '' 
Camilla had now rushed out of doors , still handed by the Major . 
cried Camilla , almost sobbing out her words . 
she cried , breaking violently from the Major , `` tell me ! 
She could hear no more ; the shock overpowered her , and she sunk nearly senseless into the arms of her sister . 
She was recovered , however , almost in a minute , and carried by Edgar into his chaise , in which he placed her between himself and the weeping Lavinia ; hastily telling the two gentlemen , that his intimate connection with the family authorized his assisting and attending them at such a period . 
Camilla spoke not a word the first mile , which was spent in an hysteric sobbing : but , recovering a little afterwards , and sinking on the shoulder of her sister , `` O , Lavinia ! '' 
she cried , `` should we lose my Uncle -- '' A shower of tears wetted the neck of Lavinia , who mingled with them her own , though less violently , from having less connection with Sir Hugh , and a sensibility less ungovernable . 
This was too sudden a joy for the desponding Camilla , whose breath instantly stopt , and who must have fallen upon the floor , had she not been caught by Edgar ; who , though his own eyes copiously overflowed with delight , at such unexpected good news of the universally beloved Baronet , had strength and exertion sufficient to carry her down stairs into the parlour , accompanied by Eugenia . 
Three days and nights passed in this manner ; during which , Edgar saw so much of the tender affections , and softer character of Camilla , that nothing could have with-held him from manifesting his entire sympathy in her feelings , but the unaccountable circumstance of her starting forth from a back seat at the play , where she had sat concealed , attended by the Major , and without any matron protectress . 
My generous little Camilla , forgave me from the very first , before her young soul had any guile in it , which , God knows , it never has had to this hour , no more than your own . 
cried Camilla , softly opening the door , `` and may I -- for one single moment , -- see him ? '' 
-- `` That 's the voice of my dear Camilla ! '' 
Camilla , in an extacy , was instantly at his bed-side , passionately exclaiming , `` My dear , dear Uncle ! 
-- '' Sir Hugh , throwing his feeble arms round her neck , and leaning his head upon her shoulder , could only faintly articulate , `` If God pleases , I shall , my little darling , my heart 's delight and joy ! 
-- '' `` My dear child -- my own little Camilla , '' cried Sir Hugh , in a faint voice , `` I am ready to die ! '' 
Mr. Tyrold here forced her away , and his brother grew so much worse , that a dangerous relapse took place , and for three days more , the physician , the nurse , and Mr. Tyrold , were alone allowed to enter his room . 
During this time , the whole family suffered the truest grief , and Camilla was inconsolable . 
Camilla , always upon the watch , glided in with them , supplicating her Father not to deny her admittance ; though fearful of her impetuous sorrows , he wished her to retreat ; but Sir Hugh no sooner heard her murmuring voice , than he declared he would have her refused nothing , though he had meant to take a particular leave of her alone , for the last thing of all . 
Gratefully thanking him , she advanced trembling to his bed-side ; solemnly promising her Father that no expression of her grief should again risk agitating a life and health so precious . 
Tears flowed fast down the cheeks of Mr. Tyrold , as he uttered whatever he could suggest most tenderly soothing to his Brother : and the young mourners , not daring to resist , were all gliding away , except Camilla , whose hand was fast grasped in that of her Uncle . 
`` Ah , my Camilla , '' cried he , as she would gently have withdrawn it , `` how shall I part with my little dear darling ? 
`` O my dear , dearest Uncle -- '' exclaimed Camilla , in a passionate flood of tears ; when Mr. Tyrold , assuring them both the consequences might be fatal , tore her away from the bed and the room . 
The delight of Camilla exceeded whatever she had yet experienced : her life had lost half its value in her estimation , while she believed that of her uncle to be in danger . 
She had yet said nothing to Camilla upon the subject ; not only because a dearer interest mutually occupied them , but from a secret shame of naming a lover at a period so ungenial . 
But now that Sir Hugh was in a fair way of recovery , her situation became alarming to herself . 
Openly , and before the whole house , she had solemnly been assigned to Clermont Lynmere ; and , little as she wished the connexion , she thought it , from circumstances , her duty not to refuse it . 
Yet this gentleman had attended her so long , had endured so many disappointments , and borne them so much to her satisfaction , that , though she lamented her concession as an injury to Clermont , and grew ashamed to name it even to Camilla , she believed it would be cruelty unheard of to break it . 
She determined , therefore , to see him , to pronounce a farewell , and then to bend all her thoughts to the partner destined her by her friends . 
Camilla , who was then accidentally in her own room , was , soon after , summoned by three smart raps to her chamber door . 
There , to her great surprise , she saw Edgar , who , after a hasty apology , begged to have a few minutes conference with her alone . 
She descended with him into the parlour , which was vacant . 
Startled in a moment from all thoughts of self , that at first had been rushing with violence to her heart , Camilla answered , `` No ! 
Camilla thanked him , an ran eagerly to speak to her sister ; but she was not in her room ; nor was she with her uncle ; nor yet with Dr. Orkborne . 
She returned uneasily to the parlour , and said she would seek her in the park . 
Edgar followed ; but they looked around for her in vain : he then , deeming the danger urgent , left her , to hasten to the spot where he had seen the post-chaise . 
Camilla ran on alone ; and , when she reached the park gate , perceived her sister , Molly Mill , and Bellamy , in the lane . 
He sighed so deeply , that Eugenia , who seemed already in much sorrow , could not utter an abrupt refusal ; and , as Camilla now advanced , she turned from him , without attempting to say any thing further . 
Camilla , in the delight of finding her sister safe , after the horrible apprehensions she had just experienced , could not speak to her for tears . 
Camilla asked a thousand questions ; but Eugenia seemed unable to answer them . 
In a few minutes they were joined by Edgar , who , walking hastily up to them , took Camilla apart . 
He told her he firmly believed a villainous scheme to have been laid : he had found the chaise still in waiting , and asked the postillion to whom he belonged . 
Camilla even with rapture blest his fortunate presence ; but was confounded with perplexity at the conduct of Eugenia . 
Camilla overtook her sister , who had walked on without listening to or regarding them ; and , sending away Molly , told her Edgar wished immediately to converse with her , upon something of the utmost importance . 
Camilla , utterly at a loss what to conjecture , joined Mandlebert alone , and told him her ill success . 
He thought every thing was to be feared from the present state of the affair , and proposed revealing at once all he knew of it to Mr. Tyrold : but Camilla desired him to take no step till she had again expostulated with her sister , who might else be seriously hurt or offended . 
`` You hurt me , Camilla , by this prejudice . 
`` If I could be sure of his sincerity , '' said Camilla , `` I should be the last to think ill of him : but reflect a little , at least , upon the risk that you have run ; my dear Eugenia ! 
that chaise was only to convey him away ; to convey him , Camilla , to an eternal banishment ! '' 
`` My dear Eugenia , '' said Camilla , half smiling , `` this is a violent passion , indeed , for so short an acquaintance ! '' 
`` I knew you would say that , '' answered she , disconcerted ; `` and it was just what I observed to him myself : but he satisfied me that the reason of his feelings being so impetuous was , that this was the first and only time he had ever been in love -- So handsome as he is ! 
Camilla , tenderly embracing her , declared , `` the choice was all that did him honour in the affair . '' 
`` He never , '' said she , a little comforted , `` makes me any compliments ; I should else disregard , if not disdain him : but indeed he seems , notwithstanding his own extraordinary manly beauty , to be wholly superior to external considerations . '' 
Camilla now forbore expressing farther doubt , from the fear of painful misapprehension ; but earnestly entreated her to suffer Edgar to be entrusted and consulted : she decidedly , however , refused her consent . 
`` I require no advice , '' cried she , `` for I am devoted to my uncle 's will : to speak then of this affair would be the most cruel indelicacy , in publishing a conquest which , since it is rejected , I ought silently , though gratefully , to bury in my own heart . '' 
She then related the history of all that had passed to Camilla ; but solemnly declared she would never , to any other human being , but him who should hereafter be entitled to her whole heart , betrary the secret of the unhappy Bellamy . 
The wish of Camilla was to lay this whole affair before her father ; but she checked it , from an apprehension she might seem displaying her duty and confidence at the expence of those of her sister ; whose motives for concealment were intentionally the most pure , however , practically , they might be erroneous ; and whom she both pitied and revered for her proposed submission to her uncle , in opposition to her palpable reluctance . 
She saw not , however , any obstacle to consulting with Edgar , since he was already apprised of the business , and since his services might be essentially useful to her sister : while , with respect to herself , there seemed , at this time , more of dignity in meeting than shunning his friendly intercourse , since his regard for her seemed to have lost all its peculiarity . 
He has precisely , cried she , the same sentiments for my sisters as for me , -- he is equally kind , disinterested , and indifferent to us all ! 
The heart of Eugenia appeared to him positively entangled ; and he besought Camilla not to lose a moment in acquainting Mr. Tyrold with her situation . 
She pleaded against giving this pain to her sister with energetic affection : her arguments failed to convince , but her eloquence powerfully touched him ; and he contented himself with only entreating that she would again try to aid him with an opportunity of conversing with Eugenia . 
When Camilla told her sister the request of Edgar , she immediately suspected the attachment of Bellamy had been betrayed to him ; and Camilla , incapable of any duplicity , related precisely how the matter had passed . 
A blush had overspread his face at the word Brotherly ; while at that of all , which recovered him , a still deeper stained the cheeks of Camilla : but neither of them looked at the other ; and Eugenia was too self-absorbed to observe either . 
`` I am happy to retort upon you that question , '' replied Camilla ; `` for I am every way afraid to act myself , left I should hurt this dear sister , or do wrong by my yet dearer father . '' 
Camilla had not heard one word of this last speech . 
He undertook , meantime , to keep a constant watch upon the motions of Bellamy , to make sedulous inquiries into his character and situation in life , and to find out for what ostensible purpose he was in Hampshire : entreating leave to communicate constantly to Camilla what he might gather , and to consult with her , from time to time , upon what measures should be pursued : yet ultimately confessing , that if Eugenia did not steadily persist in refusing any further rejections , he should hold himself bound in conscience to communicate the whole to Mr. Tyrold . 
Camilla was pleased , and even thankful for the extreme friendliness and kind moderation of this arrangement ; yet she left him mournfully , in a confirmed belief his regard for the whole family was equal . 
Penetrated with the goodness , while lamenting the indifference of Edgar , Camilla had just reached her room ; when , as she turned round to shut her door , Mr. Tyrold appeared before her . 
Hastily , with the back of her hand , brushing off the tears from her eyes , she said , `` May I go to my uncle , Sir ? 
He then entered , shut the door , and making her sit down by him , said , `` What is this sorrow that assails my Camilla ? 
Speech and truth were always one with Camilla ; who , as she could not in this instance declare what were her feelings , remained mute and confounded . 
Camilla now trembled , but could not even attempt to speak . 
He saw her disorder , and presently added , `` I will forbear to probe your feelings , when you have satisfied me in one doubt ; -- Is the sadness I have of late remarked in you the effect of secret personal disturbance , or of disappointed expectation ? '' 
Camilla could neither answer nor look up : she was convinced , by this question , that the subject of her melancholy was understood , and felt wholly overcome by the deeply distressing confusion , with which wounded pride and unaffected virgin modesty impress a youthful female , in the idea of being suspected of a misplaced , or an unrequited partiality . 
Tell me then , my dear Camilla , do you sigh under the weight of any disingenuous conduct ? 
Camilla , nevertheless , exculpated him from all blame ; and , while touched by her artlessness , and honouring her truth , he felt , at least , some consolation to find that Edgar , whom he loved as a son , was untainted by deceit , unaccused of any evil . 
Gently , at length , approaching her , `` My dearest child , '' he said , `` I will ask you nothing further ; all that is absolutely essential for me to know , I have gathered . 
Dry up your tears then , my Camilla , and command your best strength to conceal for ever their source , and , most especially -- from its cause . '' 
He then embraced , and left her . 
`` Yes , my dearest father , '' cried she , as she shut the door , `` most perfect and most lenient of human beings ! 
The least severity would have chilled her confidence , the least reproof would have discouraged all effort to self-conquest ; but , while his softness had soothed , his approbation had invigorated her ; and her feelings received additional energy from the conscious generosity with which she had represented Edgar as blameless . 
Blameless , however , in her own breast , she could not deem him : his looks , his voice , his manner , -- words that occasionally dropt from him , and meanings yet more expressive which his eyes or his attentions had taken in charge , all , from time to time , had told a flattering tale , which , though timidity and anxious earnestness had obscured from her perfect comprehension , her hopes and her sympathy had prevented from wholly escaping her . 
Yet what , internally , she could not defend she forgave ; and , acquitting him of all intentional deceit , concluded that what he had felt for her , he had thought too slight and immaterial to deserve repressing on his own part , or notice on her 's . 
To continue with him her present sisterly conduct was all she had to study , not doubting but that what as yet was effort , would in time become natural . 
Strengthened thus in fortitude , she descended chearfully to supper , where Mr. Tyrold , though he saw with pain that her spirits were constrained , felt the fondest satisfaction in the virtue of her exertion . 
Her night passed in the consolation of self-applause . 
My dear father , thought she , will see I strive to merit his lenity , and that soothing consideration with the honourable friendship of Edgar , will be sufficient for the happiness of my future life , in the single and tranquil state in which it will be spent . 
Thus comforted , she again met the eye of Mr. Tyrold the next day at breakfast ; in the midst of which repast Edgar entered the parlour . 
The tea she was drinking was then rather gulped than sipped ; yet she maintained an air of unconcern , and returned his salutation with apparent composure . 
He rushed out of the parlour ; and the first person to rise , with involuntary intent to follow him , was Camilla . 
But , as she reached the hall-door , she saw that the man was safe , and perceived that her father was the only person who had left the room besides herself . 
Ashamed , she returned , and found the female party collected at the windows . 
Hoping to retrieve the error of her eagerness , she seated herself at the table , and affected to finish her breakfast . 
Every thing but tenderness and terror was now forgotten by Camilla ; she darted forward with unrestrained velocity , and would have given , in a moment , the most transporting amazement to Edgar , and to herself the deepest shame , but that Mr. Tyrold , who alone had his face that way , stopt , and led her back to the house , saying , `` There is no mischief ; a bee stung the poor animal at the instant the stone was extracted , and , the surprise and pain made it kick ; but , fortunately , without any bad effect . 
With these words he left her ; and , though abashed and overset , she found no sensation so powerful as joy for the safety of Edgar . 
Still , however , too little at ease for conversing with her uncle , she went straight to her own chamber , and flew involuntarily to a window , whence the first object that met her eyes was her father , who was anxiously looking up . 
She retreated , utterly confounded , and threw herself upon a chair at the other end of the room . 
Shame now was her only sensation . 
The indiscretion of her first surprise , she knew , he must forgive , though she blushed at its recollection ; but a solicitude so pertinacious , an indulgence so repeated of feelings he had enjoined her to combat -- how could she hope for his pardon ? 
or how obtain her own , to have forfeited an approbation so precious ? 
She could not go to her uncle ; she would have remained where she was till summoned to dinner , if the house-maid , after finishing all her other work , had not a third time returned to inquire if she might clean her room . 
She then determined to repair to the Library , where she was certain only to encounter Eugenia , who would not torment , or Dr. Orkborne , who would not perceive her : but at the bottom of the stairs she was stopt by Miss Margland , who , with a malicious smile , asked if she was going to hold the bason ? 
The joy of Camilla , that nothing was more serious , banished all that was disagreeable from her thoughts , till she was called back to reflections less consoling , by meeting Mr. Tyrold , as she was returning to her own room ; who , with a gravity unusual , desired to speak with her , and preceded her into the chamber . 
Trembling , and filled with shame , she followed , shut the door , and remained at it without daring to look up . 
`` My dear Camilla , '' cried he with earnestness , `` let me not hope in vain for that exertion you have promised me , and to which I know you to be fully equal . 
He stopt , for Camilla looked thunderstruck . 
Approaching her , then , with a look of concern , and a voice of tenderness , he kindly took her hand , and added : `` I do not tell you this in displeasure , but to put you upon your guard . 
He then kissed her , and quitted the room . 
She now remained in utter despair : the least idea of disgrace totally broke her spirit , and she sat upon the same spot on which Mr. Tyrold had left her , till the ringing of the second dinner bell . 
She then gloomily resolved to plead an head-ach , and not to appear . 
When a footman tapt at her door , to acquaint her every body was seated at the table , she sent down this excuse : forming to herself the further determination , that the same should suffice for the evening , and for the next morning , that she might avoid the sight of Edgar , in presence either of her father or Miss Margland . 
Camilla heard this with mixt pleasure and pain . 
She rejoiced that Edgar should be upon his former terms with her beloved uncle ; but how preserve the caution demanded from her for so long a period , in the constant sight of her now watchful father , and the malicious Miss Margland ? 
`` For certain , '' said Mary , `` she 's very good , and a deal of good she does , to all as asks her ; but Miss Camilla for my money . 
Camilla felt flushed with the deepest resentment , and could scarcely command herself to forbear charging Miss Margland with his persecuting cruelty . 
`` And the cross old Frump , '' she added , `` is in a worse spite than ever , and she kept abusing that sweet Mr. Mandlebert to Miss Lynmere all the while , till she went down to dinner , and she said she was sure it was all Miss Camilla 's doings his staying here again , for she could come over master for any thing : and she said she supposed it was to have another catch at the young ` Squire 's heart , but she hoped he would not be such a fool . '' 
`` I 'm sure I wish he would , '' cried Molly Mill , `` if it was only to spite her , she 's such a nasty old viper . 
And Miss Camilla 's always so good-natured , and so affable , she 'd make him a very agreeable wife , I dare say . '' 
`` And she 's mortal fond of him , that 's true , '' said Mary , `` for when they was both here , I always see her a running to the window , to see who was a coming into the park , when he was rode out ; and when he was in the house , she never so much as went to peep , if there come six horses , one after t ` other . 
And she was always a saying , ` Mary , who 's in the parlour ? 
Camilla could endure no more ; she arose , and walked about the room ; and the maids , who had concluded her at dinner , hearing her step , hurried away , to finish their gossiping in the room of Mandlebert . 
Camilla now felt wholly sunk ; the persecutions of Miss Margland seemed nothing to this blow : they were cruel , she could therefore repine at them ; they were unprovoked , she could therefore repel them : but to find her secret feelings , thus generally spread , and familiarity commented upon , from her own unguarded conduct , exhausted , at once , patience , fortitude , and hope , and left her no wish but to quit Cleves while Edgar should remain there . 
Certain , however , that her father would not permit her to return to Etherington alone , a visit to Mrs. Arlbery was the sole refuge she could suggest ; and she determined to solicit his permission to accept immediately the invitation of that lady . 
Camilla waited in the apartment of Mr. Tyrold till he came up stairs , and then begged his leave to spend a few days at the Grove ; hinting , when he hesitated , though with a confusion that was hardly short of torture , at what had passed amongst the servants . 
He heard her with the tenderest pity , and the kindest praise of her sincerity ; and , deeply as he was shocked to find her thus generally betrayed , he was too compassionate to point out , at so suffering a moment , the indiscretions from which such observations must have originated . 
Yet he saw consequences the most unpleasant in this rumour of her attachment ; and though he still privately hoped that the behaviour of Mandlebert was the effect of some transient embarrassment , he wished her removed from all intercourse with him that was not sought by himself , while the incertitude of his intentions militated against her struggles for indifference . 
The result , therefore , of a short deliberation was to accede to her request . 
Camilla then wrote her proposition to Mrs. Arlbery , which Mr. Tyrold sent immediately by a stable-boy of the baronet 's . 
The relief which this , at first , brought to Camilla , in the week 's exertions it would spare , was soon succeeded by the most acute uneasiness for the critical situation of Eugenia , and the undoubted disapprobation of Edgar . 
The present moment was all that occupied , the present evil all that ever alarmed the breast of Camilla : to avoid him , therefore , now , was the whole of her desire , unmolested with one anxiety how she might better meet him hereafter . 
Camilla , in a hesitating voice , said she should not use her uncle 's chariot . 
while Edgar , still more curious than either , held out his hand to conduct her , that he might obtain better information . 
Edgar , astonished , was now as involuntarily drawing back , as Camilla , involuntarily , was hurrying on : but Miss Margland , insisting upon an answer , desired to know if she should return to dinner ? 
She stammered out , No . 
The kind reception of Mrs. Arlbery , and all the animation of her discourse , were thrown away upon Camilla . 
An absent smile , and a few faint acknowledgments of her goodness were all she could return : Eugenia abandoned when she might have been served , Edgar contemning when he might have been approving -- these were the images of her mind , which resisted entrance to all other . 
Camilla then , too unhappy to fear any injunction , and resigned to whatever she might receive , read the discourse of Mr. Tyrold . 
It is not my intention to enumerate , my dear Camilla , the many blessings of your situation ; your heart is just and affectionate , and will not forget them : I mean but to place before you your immediate duties , satisfied that the review will ensure their performance . 
Is my Camilla in this predicament ? 
It is now , Camilla , we must demand your exertions in return . 
With respect to this last , I know of nothing to apprehend : -- with regard to the first -- I grieve to wound my dearest Camilla , yet where there has been no subject for complaint , there can have been none for expectation . 
In our joint names , therefore , I adjure you , my dearest Camilla , not to embitter the present innocence of your suffering by imprudence that may attach to it censure , nor by indulgence that may make it fasten upon your vitals ! 
The calm sadness with which Camilla had opened her letter was soon broken in upon by the interest of its contents , the view it displayed of her duties , her shame at her recent failures , and her fears for their future execution ; and yet more than all , by the full decision in which it seemed written , that the unhappy partiality she had exposed , had been always , and would for ever remain unreturned . 
She started at the intimation how near she stood to detection even from Edgar himself , and pride , reason , modesty , all arose to strengthen her with resolution , to guard every future conflict from his observation . 
The article concerning fortune touched her to the quick . 
Nothing appeared to her so degrading as the most distant idea that such a circumstance could have any force with her . 
But the justice done to Edgar she gloried in , as an apology for her feelings , and exculpatory of her weakness . 
Her tears flowed fast at every expression of kindness to herself , her burning blushes dried them up as they were falling , at every hint of her feebleness , and the hopelessness of its cause ; but wholly subdued by the last paragraph , which with reverence she pressed to her lips , she offered up the most solemn vows of a strict and entire observance of every injunction which the letter contained . 
She was thus employed , unnoticing the passage of time , when Mrs. Arlbery tapped at her door , and asked if she wished to dine in her own room . 
Camilla , attempting to smile , promised to play the country cousin no more . 
Camilla then followed her down stairs , where she found no company but Sir Sedley Clarendel . 
`` Come , my dear Miss Tyrold , '' said Mrs. Arlbery , `` you and I may now consider ourselves as tte--tte ; Sir Sedley wo n't be much in our way . 
`` This is a creature so strange , Miss Tyrold , '' said Mrs. Arlbery , `` that I must positively initiate you a little into his character ; -- or , rather , into its own caricature ; for as to character , he has had none intelligible these three years . 
Miss Tyrold , you are to be auditor and judge : and I will save you the time and the trouble which decyphering this animal , so truly a non-descript , might cost you . '' 
`` This man , my dear Miss Tyrold , whom we are about to delineate , was meant by nature , and prepared by art , for something greatly superior to what he now appears : but , unhappily , he had neither solidity of judgment , nor humility of disposition , for bearing meekly the early advantages with which he set out in life ; a fine person , fine parts , and a fine estate , all dashed into consciousness at the presuming age of one and twenty . 
She then asked Camilla if she had any message for Cleves , as one of her servants was going close to the park gate . 
Camilla , glad to withdraw , said she would write a few words to her father , and retired for that purpose . 
Camilla here returned . 
She had written a few lines to Eugenia , to enforce her reliance upon Edgar , with an earnest request to be sent for immediately , if any new difficulty occurred . 
Sir Sedley now rung for his carriage ; and Camilla , for the rest of the evening , exerted herself to receive more cheerfully the kind civilities of her lively hostess . 
After two days passed with tolerable , though not natural cheerfulness at the Grove , Camilla was surprised by the arrival of the carriage of Sir Hugh with a short note from Eugenia . 
come and pass an hour or two at Cleves with your distressed Camilla could scarcely stop to leave a message for Mrs. Arlbery , before she slew to the carriage ; nor even inquire for her uncle at Cleves , before she ran to the apartment of Eugenia , and , with a thousand tender caresses , desired to know what had thus cruelly afflicted her . 
Camilla , with much commiseration , inquired if she had consulted with Edgar . 
Yes , she answered ; and he had extorted her permission to relate the whole transsaction to her father , though in a manner wide from justice to the ill-fated Bellamy ; whose design might be extraordinary , but whose character , she was convinced , was honourable . 
Camilla , whose education , though private , had not , like that of Eugenia , been secluded and studious , was far less credulous than her sister , though equally artless . 
Eugenia warmly defended him , declaring the judgment of Camilla , and that of all her friends , to be formed in the dark ; for that none of them could have doubted a moment his goodness or his honour , had they seen the distracted suffering that was marked in his countenance . 
`` And what , '' cried Camilla , `` says my father to all this ? '' 
A message came now from Sir Hugh to Camilla , that he would see her before she went , but that he was resting at present from the fatigue of writing a letter . 
He sent her , however , with his love , the foul copy , to amuse her till she could come to him . 
I remain , Eugenia , from motives of delicacy and of shame , declined reading the copy as she had declined reading the letter ; but looked so extremely unhappy , that Camilla offered to plead with her uncle , and use her utmost influence that he would countermand the recall . 
`` No , '' answered she , `` no ! 
She was now called down to Mr. Tyrold . 
Camilla accompanied her . 
He told her he had gathered , from the kind zeal and inquiries of Edgar , that Bellamy had certainly laid a premeditated plan for carrying her off , if she went to the races ; which , as the whole neighbourhood was there , might reasonably be expected . 
Her father embraced her ; Camilla shed tears ; and Edgar , in earnest admiration , kissed her hand . 
She received their applause with sensibility , but looked down with a secret deduction from its force , as she internally uttered , `` My task is not so difficult as they believe ! 
-- '' Edgar was immediately setting off , but , stopping him -- `` One thing alone I beg , '' she said ; `` do not communicate your intelligence abruptly . 
She blushed , and left them , followed by Camilla . 
He then went to take leave of Camilla , who had been making a visit to her uncle , and was returning to the Grove . 
He had seen with concern the frigid air with which Edgar had bowed to her upon his entrance , and with compassion the changed countenance with which she had received his formal salutation . 
His hope of the alliance now sunk ; and so favourite a wish could not be relinquished without severe disappointment ; yet his own was immaterial to him when he looked at Camilla , and saw in her expressive eyes the struggle of her soul to disguise her wounded feelings . 
When Camilla was informed of this intended excursion , the disappointment with which it overpowered her was too potent for disguise : and Mrs. Arlbery was so much struck with it , that , during coffee , she took Sir Sedley apart , and said ; `` I feel such concern for the dismal alteration of that sweet girl , that I could prevail with myself , all love-lorn as she is , to take her with me to Tunbridge , if you will aid my hardy enterprise of driving that frozen composition of premature wisdom from her mind . 
Mrs. Arlbery , in high spirits , said she scarce knew which would most delight her , to mortify Edgar , or restore Camilla to gaiety and independence . 
Yet she would watch , she said , that matters went no further than just to shake off a whining first love ; for the last thing upon earth she intended was to entangle her in a second . 
Camilla received the invitation with pleasure yet anxiety : for though glad to be spared returning to Cleves in a state of disturbance so suspicious , she was bitterly agitated in reflecting upon the dislike of Edgar to Mrs. Arlbery , the pains he had taken to prevent her mingling with this society , and the probably final period to his esteem and good-will , that would prove the result of her accompanying such a party to a place of amusement . 
Mrs. Arlbery accompanied Camilla the next day to Cleves , to ask permission of Mr. Tyrold for the excursion . 
Mr. Tyrold was distressed by the proposition : he was not satisfied in trusting his unguarded Camilla to the dissipation of a public place , except under the wing of her mother ; though he felt eager to remove her from Edgar , and rejoiced in any opportunity to allow her a change of scene , that might revive her natural spirits , and unchain her heart from its unhappy subjection . 
In this indecision he took Camilla apart , and bad her tell him , without fear or reserve , her own feelings , her own wishes , her own opinion upon this scheme . 
She held such a call too serious and too kind for disguise : she hid her face upon his shoulder and wept ; he soothed and encouraged her to confidence ; and , in broken accents , she then acknowledged herself unequal , as yet , to fulfilling his injunctions of appearing cheerful and easy , though sensible of their wisdom . 
Mr. Tyrold , with a heavy heart , saw how much deeper was her wound , than the airiness of her nature had prepared him to expect , and could no longer hesitate in granting his consent . 
He saw it was her wish to go ; but he saw that the pleasures of a public place had no share in exciting it . 
To avoid betraying her conscious mortification was her sole and innocent motive ; and though he would rather have sent her to a more private spot , and have trusted her to a more retired character ; he yet thought it possible , that what opportunity presented unsought , might , eventually , prove more beneficial than what his own choice would have dictated ; for public amusements , to the young and unhackneyed , give entertainment without requiring exertion ; and spirits lively as those of Mrs. Arlbery create nearly as much gaiety as they display . 
Fixed , now , for the journey , he carried Camilla to her uncle to take leave . 
The prospect of not seeing her again for six weeks was gloomy to Sir Hugh , though he bore it better at this moment , when his fancy was occupied by arranging preparations for the return of Clermont , than he could have done at almost any other . 
He put into her hands a fifty pound Bank note for her expences , and when , with mingled modesty and dejection , she would have returned the whole , as unnecessary even to her wishes , Mr. Tyrold , interfering , made her accept twenty pounds . 
Sir Hugh pressed forward the original sum in vain ; his brother , though always averse to refuse his smallest desire , thought it here a duty to be firm , that the excursion , which he granted as a relief to her sadness , might not lead to pleasures ever after beyond her reach , not to their concomitant extravagance . 
She could not , he knew , reside at Tunbridge with the oeconomy and simplicity to which she was accustomed at Etherington ; but he charged her to let no temptation make her forget the moderate income of which alone she was certain ; assuring her , that where a young woman 's expences exceeded her known expectations , those who were foremost to praise her elegance , would most fear to form any connection with her , and most despise or deride her in any calamity . 
Camilla found no difficulty in promising the most exact observance of this instruction ; her heart seemed in sackcloth and ashes , and she cared not in what manner her person should be arrayed . 
Sir Hugh earnestly enjoined her not to fail to be at Cleves upon the arrival of Clermont , intimating that the nuptials would immediately take place . 
She then sought Eugenia , whom she found with Dr. Orkborne , in a state of mind so perfectly calm and composed , as equally to surprise and rejoice her . 
She saw with pleasure that all Bellamy had inspired was the most artless compassion ; for since his dismission had now positively been given , and Clermont was actually summoned , she devoted her thoughts solely to the approaching event , with the firm , though early wisdom which distinguished her character . 
Indiana joined them ; and , in a low voice , said to Camilla , `` Pray , cousin , do you know where Mr. Macdersey is ? 
Camilla , surprised , desired to know why she had such an apprehension ? 
She then said , that , just after Camilla 's departure the preceding day , Mr. Macdersey arrived , and insisted upon seeing her , and speaking to Sir Hugh , as he was ordered into Kent , and could not go so far in suspence . 
Camilla inquired if she was sorry for the rejection . 
`` No -- o , '' she answered , with some hesitation ; `` for Miss Margland says he 's got no rent-roll ; besides , I do n't think he 's so agreeable as Mr. Melmond ; only Mr. Melmond 's worth little or no fortune they say : for Miss. . 
Mrs. Arlbery now sent to hasten Camilla , who , in returning to the parlour , met Edgar . 
He had just gathered her intended excursion , and , sick at heart , had left the room . 
Camilla felt the consciousness of a guilty person at his sight ; but he only slightly bowed ; and coldly saying , `` I hope you will have much pleasure at Tunbridge , '' went on to his own room . 
And there , replete with resentment for the whole of her late conduct , he again blessed Dr. Marchmont for his preservation from her toils ; and , concluding the excursion was for the sake of the Major , whose regiment he knew to be just ordered into Kent , he centered every former hope in the one single wish that he might never see her more . 
Camilla , shocked by such obvious displeasure , quitted Cleves with still increasing sadness ; and Mrs. Arlbery would heartily have repented her invitation , but for her dependance upon Sir Sedley Clarendel . 
At Etherington they stopt , that Camilla might prepare her package for Tunbridge . 
While Camilla , with a maid-servant , was examining her drawers , the chamber door was opened by Lionel , for whom she had just inquired , and who , telling her he wanted to speak to her in private , turned the maid out of the room . 
Camilla begged him to be quick , as Mrs. Arlbery was waiting . 
`` My dear brother , '' said Camilla , pleasure again kindling in her eyes as she opened her pocket-book , `` you could never have applied to me so opportunely . 
`` Camilla , '' he cried presently , `` you are an excellent girl . 
Camilla now , drawing back , disappointed and displeased , asked how it was possible he should want more . 
repeated she , amazed . 
`` Camilla , no preaching ! 
`` Certainly I will do whatever I can for you , '' said she , sighing ; `` but indeed , my dear Lionel , your manner of going on makes my very heart ach ! 
exclaimed she , turning away from him ; `` you propose what you know to be impracticable . '' 
That lady lent her chaise the next morning , with her usual promptitude of good-humour , and Camilla went to Cleves , with a reluctance that never before accompanied her desire to oblige . 
Her visit was received most kindly by all the family , as merely an additional leave taking ; in which light , though she was too sincere to place it , she suffered it to pass . 
Having no chance of being alone with her uncle by accident , she was forced to beg him , in a whisper , to request a tte--tte with her : and she then , covered with all the confusion of a partner in his extravagance , made the petition of Lionel . 
Sir Hugh seemed much surprised , but protested he would rather part with his coat and waistcoat than refuse any thing to Camilla . 
He gave her instantly a draft upon his banker for two hundred pounds ; but added , he should take it very kind of her , if she would beg Lionel to ask him for no more this year , as he was really so hard run , he should not else be able to make proper preparations for the wedding , till his next rents became due . 
Camilla was now surprised in her turn ; and Sir Hugh then confessed , that , between presents and petitions , his nephew had had no less than five hundred pounds from him the preceding year , unknown to his parents ; and that for this year , the sum she requested made the seventh hundred ; without the least account for what purpose it was given . 
Camilla now heartily repented being a partner in a business so rapacious , so unjustifiable , and so mysterious ; but , kindly interrupting her apology , `` Do n't be concerned , my dear , '' he cried , `` for there 's no help for these things ; though what the young boys do with all their money now-a-days , is odd enough , being what I ca n't make out . 
Camilla gave voluntarily her word no such application should find her its ambassadress again : and though he would have dispensed with the promise , she made it the more readily as a guard against her own facility . 
Camilla was most willing to agree to concealing from her parents what she knew must so painfully afflict them , though she determined to assume sufficient courage to expostulate most seriously with her brother , against whom she felt sensations of the most painful anger . 
Again she now took leave ; but upon re-entering the parlour , found Edgar there alone . 
Involuntarily she was retiring ; but the counsel of her father recurring to her , she compelled herself to advance , and say , `` How good you have been to Eugenia ! 
Edgar , who was reading , and knew not she was in the house , was surprised , both by her sight and her address , out of all his resolutions ; and , with a softness of voice he meant evermore to deny himself , answered , `` To me ? 
can any of the Tyrold family talk of being indebted to me ? 
`` You have found me unworthy your counsel , '' answered Camilla , gravely , and looking down ; `` you have therefore concluded I resent it : but we are not always completely wrong , even when wide from being right . 
To these last words she forced a smile ; and , wishing him good morning , hurried away . 
Amazed past expression , and touched to the soul , he remained , a few instants , immoveable ; then , resolving to follow her , and almost resolving to throw himself at her feet , he opened the door she had shut after her : he saw her still in the hall , but she was in the arms of her father and sisters , who had all descended , upon hearing she had left Sir Hugh , and of whom she was now taking leave . 
Upon his appearance , she said she could no longer keep the carriage ; but , as she hastened from the hall , he saw that her eyes were swimming in tears . 
Her father saw it too , with less surprise , but more pain . 
He knew her short and voluntary absence from her friends could not excite them : his heart ached with paternal concern for her ; and , motioning every body else to remain in the hall , he walked with her to the carriage himself , saying , in a low voice , as he put her in , `` Be of better courage , my dearest child . 
Camilla , bathing his hand with her tears , promised this maxim should never quit her mind till they met again . 
She then drove off . 
`` Yes , '' she cried , `` I must indeed study it ; Edgar cares no more what becomes of me ! 
She wrote down in her pocket-book the last words of her father ; she resolved to read them daily , and to make them the current lesson of her future and disappointed life . 
Lionel , too impatient to wait for the afternoon , was already at the Grove , and handed her from the chaise . 
But , stopping her in the portico , `` Well , '' he cried , `` where 's my draft ? '' 
`` Before I give it you , '' said she , seriously , and walking from the servants , `` I must entreat to speak a few words to you . '' 
Camilla felt no concern at the loss of her twenty pounds : lowered and unhappy , she was rather glad than sorry that her means for being abroad were diminished , and that to keep her own room would soon be most convenient . 
Mrs. Arlbery and Camilla set off in the coach of Mr. Dennel , widower of a deceased sister of the husband of Mrs. Arlbery , whom she was induced to admit of the party that he might aid in bearing the expences , as she could not , from some family considerations , refuse taking her niece into her coterie . 
With Mr. Dennel she did not think it worth while to converse ; her niece she regarded as almost an idiot ; and Camilla was so spiritless , that , had not Sir Sedley acceded to her plan , this was the last period in which she would have chosen her for a companion . 
As they were destined , now , to spend some time in this place , Mrs. Arlbery retired to write letters , and Mr. Dennel to read newspapers ; and , invited by a bright moon , Camilla and Miss Dennel wandered from a little garden to an adjoining meadow , which conducted them to a lane , rendered so beautiful by the strong masses of shade with which the trees intercepted the resplendent whiteness of the moon , that they walked on , catching fresh openings with fresh pleasure , till the feet of Miss Dennel grew as weary with the length of the way , unbroken by any company , as the ears of Camilla with her incessant prattling , unaided by any idea . 
Miss Dennel proposed to sit down , and , while relieving herself by a fit of yawning and stretching , Camilla strolled a little further in search of a safe and dry spot . 
Camilla , with a smile , asked if only themselves were privileged to enjoy so sweet a night ? 
cried she , `` hush ! 
Camilla assured her , from the gentleness of the sound , she must be mistaken ; and pressed her to advance a few steps further , in case it should be any body ill . 
Still , though almost imperceptibly , Camilla drew her on , till , again listening , they distinctly heard the words , `` My lovely friend . '' 
`` A lady , '' answered Camilla , equally cautious not to be heard , though totally without alarm . 
cried Camilla , unresisting the retreat , yet walking backwards to keep the form in sight . 
and she clung close to Camilla , who , mounting a little hillock of stones , presently perceived that the lady was reading a letter . 
They both ran back some paces down the lane , Camilla determining to send somebody from the inn to inquire what all this meant : but presently , through an opening to the common , they perceived the form in white darting forwards , with an air wild and terrified . 
Camilla stopt , struck with compassion and curiosity at once ; Miss Dennel could not quit her , but after the first glance , hid her face , faintly articulating , `` O , do n't let it see us ! 
Camilla , who possessed that fine internal power of the thinking and feeling mind to adopt courage for terror , where any eminent service may be the result of immediate exertion , was preparing to spring to her relief ; while Miss Dennel , in extreme agony holding her , murmured out , `` Let 's run away ! 
Camilla stopt her flight ; and Miss Dennel , appeased , called out ; `` La ! 
was again the signal to Miss Dennel of retreat , but of Camilla to advance . 
Camilla now forced a passage through the hedge , and the lady , as she saw her approach , called out , in a voice the most touching , `` Surely 't is some pitying Angel , mercifully come to my rescue ! '' 
The pursuer drew back , and Camilla , in the gentlest words , besought the lady to accompany her to the friends she had just left , who would be happy to protect her . 
She gratefully accepted the proposal , and Camilla then ventured to look round , to see if the object of this alarm had retreated : but , with an astonishment that almost confounded her , she perceived him , a few yards off , taking a pinch of snuff , and humming an opera air . 
Then pressing the hand of Camilla , `` You have saved me , '' she cried , `` from the calamity of losing what is more dear than I have words to express ! 
The moon now shining full upon her face , Camilla saw seated on it youth , sensibility , and beauty . 
Her pleasure , involuntarily rather than rationally , was redoubled that she had proved serviceable to her , as , in equal proportion , was her abhorrence of the man who had caused the disturbance . 
Camilla felt indignant ; Miss Dennel again screamed ; and the stranger , with a look of horror and disgust , said ; `` Persecute me no more ! '' 
She then said to Camilla , `` You must be surprised to see any one out , and unprotected , at this late hour ; but I had employed myself , unthinkingly , in reading some letters from a dear and absent friend , and forgot the quick passage of time . '' 
A man in a livery now appearing at some distance , she hastily summoned him , and demanded where was the carriage ? 
In the road , he answered , where she had left it , at the end of the lane . 
She then took the hand of Camilla , and with a smile of the utmost softness said , `` When the shock I have suffered is a little over , I must surely cease to lament I have sustained it , since it has brought to me such sweet succour . 
Camilla answered , `` she was going to Tunbridge immediately , but knew not yet where she should lodge . '' 
she repeated ; I am there myself ; I shall easily find you out to-morrow morning , for I shall know no rest till I have seen you again . '' 
She then asked her name , and , with the most touching acknowledgments , took leave . 
Camilla recounted her adventure to Mrs. Arlbery , with an animated description of the fair Incognita , and with the most heart-felt delight of having , though but accidentally , proved of service to her . 
Camilla warmly vindicated her innocence , from the whole of her appearance , as well as from the impossibility of her knowing that her scream could be heard : yet was perplexed how to account for her not naming herself , and for the mystery of the carriage and servant in waiting so far off . 
These latter she concluded to belong to her father , as she looked too young to have any sort of establishment of her own . 
A servant tapt early at the door of Camilla , the next morning , to acquaint her that a lady , who called herself the person that had been so much obliged to her the preceding day , begged the honour of being admitted . 
Camilla was sorry , after the suspicions of Mrs. Arlbery , that she did not send up her name ; yet , already partially disposed , her prepossession was not likely to be destroyed by the figure that now appeared . 
Camilla was struck with admiration and pleasure ; and gave way to the most lively delight at the fortunate accident which occasioned her walking out in a place entirely unknown to her ; declaring she should ever look back to that event as to one of the marked blessings of her life . 
Camilla , impatient for some explanation , answered , `` I hope , at least , that friend will be spared hearing of your alarm ? '' 
At the words his own , Camilla felt herself blush . 
She had imagined it was some female friend . 
She now found her mistake , and knew not what to imagine next . 
`` I had retired , '' she continued , `` from the glare of company , and the weight of uninteresting conversation , to read , at leisure and in solitude , this dear letter -- heart-breaking from its own woes , heart-soothing to mine ! 
Camilla was all astonishment and perplexity . 
A male friend to beloved , who seemed to be neither father , brother , nor husband ; a carriage at her command , though without naming one relation to whom either that or herself might belong ; and sentiments so tender she was almost ashamed to listen to them ; all conspired to excite a wonder that painfully prayed for relief : and in the hope to obtain it , with some hesitation , she said , `` I should have sought you myself this morning , for the pleasure of inquiring after your safety , but that I was ignorant by what name to make my search . '' 
The fair unknown looked down for a moment , with an air that shewed a perfect consciousness of the inquiry meant by this speech ; but turning aside the embarrassment it seemed to cause her , she presently raised her head , and said , `` I had no difficulty to find you , for my servant , happily , made his inquiry at once at this hotel . '' 
Disappointed and surprised by this evasion , Camilla saw now an evident mystery , but knew not how to press forward any investigation . 
She began , therefore , to speak of other things , and her fair guest , who had every mark of an education rather sedulously than naturally cultivated , joined readily in a conversation less personal . 
They did not speak of Tunbridge , of public places , nor diversions ; their themes , all chosen by the stranger , were friendship , confidence , and sensibility , which she illustrated and enlivened by quotations from favourite poets , aptly introduced and feelingly recited ; yet always uttered with a sigh , and an air of tender melancholy . 
Camilla was now in a state so depressed , that , notwithstanding her native vivacity , she fell as imperceptibly into the plaintive style of her new acquaintance , who seemed habitually pensive , as if sympathy rather than accident had brought them together . 
Camilla , again a little disconcerted , paused ; and the lady went on . 
Camilla could not refrain from an eager affirmative ; and the conversation was then interrupted by a message from Mrs. Arlbery , who always breakfasted in her own room , to announce that she was going out lodging-hunting . 
Camilla would rather have remained with her new acquaintance , better adapted to her present turn of mind than Mrs. Arlbery ; but this was impossible , and the lovely stranger hastened away , saying she would call herself the next morning to shew the way to her house , where she hoped they might pass together many soothing and consolatory hours . 
Camilla found Mrs. Arlbery by no means in her usual high spirits . 
The opening of her Tunbridge campaign had so far from answered its trouble and expence , that she heartily repented having quitted the Grove . 
The Officers either were not arrived in the neighbourhood , or were wholly engaged in military business ; Camilla , instead of contributing to the life of the excursion , seemed to hang heavily both upon that , and upon herself ; and Sir Sedley Clarendel , whose own proposition had brought it to bear , had not yet made his appearance , though lodging in the same hotel . 
Thus vexatiously disappointed , she was ill-disposed to listen with pleasure to the history Camilla thought it indispensable to relate of her recent visit : and in answer to all praise of this fair Incognita , only replied by asking her name and connexions . 
Camilla felt extremely foolish in confessing she had not yet learnt them . 
Camilla rejoiced she did not exact any further restriction , and hoped all raillery would soon be set aside , by an honourable explanation . 
They now repaired to the Pantiles , where the gay company and gay shops afforded some amusement to Camilla , and to Miss Dennel a wonder and delight , that kept her mouth open , and her head jerking from object to object , so incessantly , that she saw nothing distinctly , from the eagerness of her fear lest any thing should escape her . 
Mrs. Arlbery , meeting with an old acquaintance in the bookseller 's shop , there sat down with him , while the two young ladies loitered at the window of a toy-shop , struck with just admiration of the beauty and ingenuity of the Tunbridge ware it presented to their view ; till Camilla , in a party of young men who were strolling down the Pantiles , and who went into the bookseller 's shop , distinguished the offender of the fair unknown . 
To avoid following , or being recollected by a person so odious to her , she entered the toy-shop with Miss Dennel , where she amused herself , till Mrs. Arlbery came in search of her , in selecting such various little articles for purchase as she imagined would amount to about half a crown ; but which were put up for her at a guinea . 
Mrs. Arlbery and Miss Dennel , who were both rich , gave large orders : Camilla , indifferent to every thing except to avoid appearing in a manner that might disgrace her party , told the milliner to choose for her what she thought fashionable that was most reasonable . 
She was soon fitted up with what was too pretty to disapprove , and desiring immediately to pay her bill , found it amounted to five guineas ; though she had imagined she should have change out of two . 
She had only six , and some silver ; but was ashamed to dispute , or desire any alteration ; she paid the money ; and only determined to apply to another person than the seller , when next she wanted any thing reasonable . 
In the evening , they went to the rooms , where the decidedly fashionable mien and manner of Mrs. Arlbery , attracted more general notice and admiration than the youthful captivation of Camilla , or the pretty face and expensive attire of Miss Dennel . 
Dressed by the milliner of the day , Camilla could not fail to pass uncensured , at least , with respect to her appearance ; but her eyes wanted their usual lustre , from the sadness of her heart , and she never looked less herself , nor to less advantage . 
The master of the ceremonies brought to her Sir Theophilus Jarard ; but as she had seen him the companion of Lord Newford , to whom she had conceived a strong aversion , she declined dancing . 
Mrs. Arlbery , willing to shew her young friend in a favourable point of view to him , though more from pique at his distance , than from any thought at that moment of Camilla , told her she must positively accept Sir Theophilus , whose asking her must be regarded as a particular distinction , for he was notoriously a man of the ton . 
`` O , nobody cares about a man 's eyes , '' said Mrs. Arlbery ; `` go and tell him Miss Tyrold has changed her mind , and chooses to dance . '' 
`` As to her changing her mind , '' he answered , `` that 's likely enough ; but I do n't see how it 's any reason I should go of a fool 's errand . '' 
`` Nay , '' said Mr. Dennel , who had an horror of late hours , `` if you will promise we shall dine more in reason '' -- `` Yes , yes , '' cried Mrs. Arlbery , hurrying him off , notwithstanding the reitereated remonstrances of Camilla . 
`` See , my dear , '' she then added , laughing , `` how many weapons you must have in use , if you would govern that strange animal called man ! 
Camilla , who had no wish but for one single votary , and whose heart was sunk from her failure in obtaining that one , listened with so little interest or spirit , that Mrs. Arlbery , quite provoked , resolved not to throw away another idea upon her for the rest of the evening . 
She immediately declared herself tired to death of the rooms , and calling upon Miss Dennel and Camilla , abruptly made her exit . 
The General , again her conductor , asked how she could leave thus a conquest so newly made . 
Camilla , whom nothing had diverted , was content to retreat . 
Before they retired to their chambers at the hotel , Camilla told Mrs. Arlbery how shocking to her was the sight , much more any acquaintance with Lord Newford , who was the person that had so much terrified the lady she had met on their journey . 
Camilla was obliged to submit : but scarce rested till she saw again her new favourite the next morning . 
Camilla received her with the only sensation of pleasure she had experienced at Tunbridge . 
Yet what she excited seemed still stronger : the fair stranger besought her friendship as a solace to her existence , and hung upon her as upon a treasure long lost , and dearly recovered . 
Camilla soon caught the infection of her softness , and felt a similar desire to cultivate her regard . 
She found her beauty attractive , her voice melodious , and her manners bewitchingly caressing . 
Fearing , nevertheless , while yet in ignorance of her connexions , to provoke further ridicule from Mrs. Arlbery by going abroad with her , she proposed deferring to return her visit till another day : the lady consented , and they spent together two hours , which each thought had been but two minutes , when Mrs. Arlbery summoned Camilla to a walk . 
The fair unkown then took leave , saying her servant was in waiting ; and Camilla and Mrs. Arlbery went to the bookseller 's . 
Camilla , to whom the book was next presented , concluded this the established custom , and , from mere timidity , did the same ; though somewhat distrubed to leave herself no more gold than she gave . 
`` This paragon , '' cried Mrs. Arlbery , to Camilla , `` can be no other than your mysterious fair . 
`` But my fair mysterious , '' said Camilla , `` is of a disposition the most retired , and seems so young , I do n't at all think her married . '' 
Lord O'Lerney inquired if Camilla had yet seen Mount Ephraim . 
No , she answered ; and a general party was made for an airing . 
Sir Sedley ordered his phaeton ; Mrs. Arlbery drove Camilla in her 's ; Miss Dennel walked with her father ; and the rest of the gentlemen went on horseback . 
But , just as Mrs. Arlbery had descended from the phaeton , her horses , taking fright at some object that suddenly struck them , reared up , in a manner alarming to the spectators , and still more terrific to Camilla , in whose hands Mrs. Arlbery had left the reins : and the servant , who stood at the horses ' heads , received a kick that laid him flat on the ground . 
Camilla , mentally giddy , but personally courageous , was sufficiently mistress of herself to obey the last injunction , though with infinite labour , difficulty , and terror , the horses pluning and flouncing incessantly . 
Camilla now , appalled , had no longer power to hold the reins ; she let them go , with an idea of flinging herself out of the carriage , when Sir Sedley , who had darted like lightning from his phaeton , presented himself at the horses ' heads , on the moment of their turning , and , at the visible and imminent hazard of his life , happily stopt them while she jumped to the ground . 
The fright of Camilla had not robbed her of her senses , and the exertion and humanity of Sir Sedley seemed to restore to him the full possession of his own : yet one of his knees was so much hurt , that he sunk upon the grass . 
Penetrated with surprise , as well as gratitude , Camilla , notwithstanding her own tremor , was the first to make the most anxious inquiries : secretly , however , sighing to herself : Ah ! 
yet struck equally with a sense of obligation and of danger , from the horrible , if not fatal mischief she had escaped , and from the extraordinary hazard and kindness by which she had been saved , she expressed her concern and acknowledgments with a softness , that even Sir Sedley himself could not listen to unmoved . 
His natural courage , which he had nearly annihilated , as well as forgotten , by the effeminate part he was systematically playing , seemed to rejoice in being again exercised ; his good nature was delighted by the essential service he had performed ; his vanity was gratified by the publicity of the praise it brought forth ; and his heart itself experienced something like an original feeling , unspoilt by the apathy of satiety , from the sensibility he had awakened in the young and lovely Camilla . 
Mrs. Arlbery , whose high spirits were totally subdued by the terror with which she had been seized at the danger of Camilla , was so delighted by her rescue , and the courage with which it was effected , that all her spleen against Sir Sedley was changed into the warmest approbation . 
When he was put into the coach , she insisted upon seeing him safe to the hotel ; Camilla , with her usual inartificial quickness , seconding the motion , and Lord O'Lerney , a nobleman far more distinguished by benevolence and urbanity than by his rank , taking the fourth place himself . 
In descending Mount Ephraim , Camilla turned giddy with the view of what she had escaped , and cast her eyes with redoubled thankfulness upon Sir Sedley as her preserver . 
When they came to the hotel , they all alighted with the young baronet , Camilla with as little thought , as Mrs. Arlbery with little care for doing any thing that was unusual . 
But Mrs. Arlbery found in them as little amusement as Camilla . 
Camilla , with much secret consternation , concluded it impossible to give less ; and a few shillings were now all that remained in her purse . 
Her uneasiness , however , presently passed away , upon recollecting she should want no more money , as she was now free of the rooms , and of the library , and equipped in attire for the whole time she should stay . 
Camilla had not conceived he had the power of being so pleasantly natural ; and the strong feeling of gratitude in her ever warm heart made her contribute what she was able to the cheerfulness of the evening . 
Camilla , his sole object , he could not approach ; she sat between the baronet and Mrs. Arlbery ; and all her looks and all her attention were divided between them . 
Mrs. Arlbery , emerging from the mortifications of neglect , which she had experienced , almost for the first time in her life , at the rooms , was unusually alive and entertaining ; Sir Sedley kept pace with her , and the discourse was so whimsical , that Camilla , amused , and willing to emcourage a sensation so natural to her , after a sadness till now , for so long a time unremitting , once more heard and welcomed the sound of her own laughter . 
Much raillery followed the sight of her changed countenance ; the hotel was pronounced to be haunted , and by a ghost reduced to that plight from her cruelty . 
But the good-humour and gaiety of the conversation soon brought her again to its tone ; and time passed with general hilarity , till they observed that Miss Dennel , who , having no young female to talk with of her own views and affairs , was thoroughly tired , had fallen fast asleep upon her chair . 
They now took leave , Mrs. Arlbery conducted by the General , and Camilla by the Major ; while Miss Dennel , unassisted and half asleep , stumbled , screamed , and fell , just before she reached the staircase . 
The General was first to aid her ; the Major , not choosing to quit Camilla ; who , looking round at a light which came from the room whence the sigh they had heard had issued , perceived , as it glared in her eyes , it was held by Edgar . 
Astonishment , pleasure , hope , and shame , took alternate rapid possession of her mind ; but the last sensation was the first that visibly operated , and she snatched her hand involuntarily from the Major . 
The last words of Camilla to Mandlebert , in quiting Cleves , and the tears with which he saw her eyes overslowing , had annihilated all his resentment , and left him no wish but to serve her . 
It was the voice of Camilla . 
Camilla at an hotel at past eleven o'clock ! 
He knew she did not lodge there ; he had seen , in the books , the direction of Mrs. Arlbery at Mount Pleasant . 
No words distinctly reached him ; that the conversation was lively , the tone of every voice announced , but when that of Camilla struck him by its laughter , the depth of his concern drew from him a sigh that was heard into the next apartment . 
When , however , as they were retiring , a scream reached his ear , though he knew it was not the voice of Camilla , he could not command himself , and rushed forth with a light ; but the lady who screamed was as little noticed as thought of : the Major was holding the hand of Camilla , and his eye could take in no more : he saw not even that Mrs. Arlbery was there ; and when roused by her question , all voice was denied him for answer ; he stood motionless even after they had descended the stairs , till the steps of the General and the Major , retiring to their chambers , brought to him some recollection , and enabled him to retreat . 
The confusion of Camilla persuaded him she thought she was acting wrong ; but whether from disapprobation of the character of the Major , or from any pecuniary obstacles to their union , he could not devise . 
But Camilla , with all her inconsistencies , he thought a treasure unequalled : and to contribute to bestow her on a man who , probably , only prized her for her beauty , he now persuaded himself would rather be culpable than generous . 
Upon the whole , therefore , he could resolve only upon a complete change of his last system ; to seek , instead of avoiding her ; to familiarise himself with her faults , till he ceased to doat upon her virtues ; to discover if her difficulties were mental or worldly ; to enforce them if the first , and -- whatever it might cost him -- to invalidate them if the last . 
It reconciled him to residing where Camilla resided , it was easy to him , therefore , to conclude it the least objectionable . 
Camilla . 
meanwhile , in her way to Mount Pleasant , spoke not a syllable . 
Dismay that Edgar should have seen her so situated , while in ignorance how it had happened , made an uneasiness the most terrible combat the perplexed pleasure , that lightened , yet palpitated in her bosom , from the view of Edgar at Tunbridge , and from the sigh which had reached her ears . 
Yet , was it for her he sighed ? 
was it not , rather , from some secret inquietude , in which she was wholly uninterested , and might never know ? 
Still , however , he was at Tunbridge ; still , therefore , she might hope something relative to herself induced his coming ; and she determined , with respect to her own behaviour , to observe the injuctions of her father , whose letter she would regularly read every morning . 
Mrs. Arlbery , also , spoke not ; the unexpected sight of Mandlebert occupied all her thoughts ; yet , though his confusion was suspicious , she could not , ultimately , believe he loved Camilla , as she could suggest no possible impediment to his proclaiming any regard he entertained . 
His sigh she imagined as likely to be mere lassitude as love ; and supposed , that having long discovered the partiality of Camilla , his vanity had been confounded by the devoirs of the Major . 
The next morning they went , as usual , to the Pantiles , and Mrs. Arlbery took her seat in the bookseller 's shop , where the usual beaux were encountered ; and where , presently , Edgar entering , addressed to her some discourse , and made some general inquiries after the health of Camilla . 
It was a cruel drawback to her hopes to see him first thus in public : but the manner of Mrs. Arlbery at the hotel , he had thought repulsive ; he had observed that she seemed offended with him since the rencounter at the breakfast given for Miss Dennel ; and he now wished for some encouragement for renewing his rights to the acquaintance . 
Sir Sedley , losing the easy , natural manner which had just so much pleased Camilla , resumed his affectation , indolence , and inattention , and flung himself back in his chair , without finishing a speech he had begun , or listening to an inquiry why he stopt short . 
His friends , Lord Newford and Sir Theophilus Jarard , shuffled up to her ladyship ; and Sir Sedley , muttering to himself life would not be life without being introduced to her , got up , and seizing Lord Newford by the shoulder , whispered what he called the height of his ambition , and was presented without delay . 
Even the Major , curious to attend to a lady of some celebrity , had quitted the chair of Camilla ; and Edgar himself , imagining , from this universal devotion , there was something well worth an audience , had joined the group . 
Camilla heard him , also , and with deep apprehensions for his health . 
He did not however look ill ; and a second sadness , not less deep , ensued , that she could now retain no hope of being herself his inducement to this journey . 
But egotism was no part of her composition ; when she saw , therefore , the next minute , Sir Sedley Clarendel advance limping , and heard him ask if his phaeton were ready , she approached him , saying , `` Will you venture , Sir Sedley , in your phaeton ? '' 
Camilla had felt very uneasy during this contest ; and now , colouring , said she did not mean to go to the ball . 
Camilla was now still more distressed ; and stammered out , that she believed the fewer balls she went to , the better her father would be pleased . 
Camilla laughed faintly , and feeling in her pocket to take out her pocket handkerchief , by way of something to do , Mrs. Arlbery concluded she was seeking her purse , and suddenly putting her hand upon her arm to prevent her , said , `` No , no ! 
Sir Sedley was then putting up his tickets ; but the Major , taking one of them out of his hand , presented it to Camilla , saying : `` Let the ladies take their tickets now , and settle with us afterwards . '' 
Camilla felt extremely provoked , yet not knowing how to resist , took the ticket ; but , turning pointedly from the Major to Sir Sedley , said : `` I am your debtor , then , sir , a guinea -- the smallest part , indeed , of what I owe you , though all I can pay ! '' 
And she then resolved to borrow that sum immediately of Mrs. Arlbery . 
Sir Sedley made it his study to procure amusement for Camilla during the ride ; and while he humoured alternately the loquacious folly of Miss Dennel , and the under-bred positiveness of her father , intermingled with both comic sarcasms against himself , and pointed annotations upon the times , that somewhat diverted her solicitude and perplexity . 
Camilla instantly thought of her moonlight friend ; but Sir Theophilus called out , `` Faith , there 's the divine Berlinton ! '' 
The studious fair , profoundly absorbed by her book , did not hear his lordship 's footsteps , till his coat rustled in her ears . 
Raising then her eyes , she screamed , dropt her book , and darting up , flew towards the wood , with a velocity far exceeding his own , though without seeming to know , or consider , whither her flight might lead her . 
Camilla , certain now this was her new friend , felt an indignation the most lively against Lord Newford , and involuntarily sprung forward . 
It was evident the fair fugitive had perceived none of the party but him she sought to avoid ; notwithstanding Lord Newford himself , when convinced who it was , ceased his pursuit , and seemed almost to find out there was such a sensation as shame ; though by various antics , of swinging his cane , looking up in the air , shaking his pocket handkerchief , and sticking his arms a-kimbo , he thought it essential to his credit to disguise it . 
Camilla had no chance to reach the flying beauty , but by calling to her to stop ; which she did instantly at the sound of her voice , and , turning round with a look of rapture , ran into her arms . 
The Major , whose devoirs to Camilla always sought , not avoided the public eye , eagerly pursued her . 
Edgar , cruelly envying a licence he concluded to result from his happy situation , looked on in silent amaze ; but listened with no small attention to the remarks that now fell from Mrs. Arlbery , who said she was sure this must be the fair Incognita that Miss Tyrold had met with upon the road ; and gave a lively relation of that adventure . 
He could not hear without delight the benevolent courage thus manifested by Camilla , nor without terror the danger to which it might have exposed her . 
Camilla now returned to her party , having first conducted her new friend towards a door in the park where her carriage was waiting . 
repeated Camilla , blushing from internal surprise at the conversations she had held with her . 
Camilla , who had seen and considered her in almost every other point of view , heard this with less of pleasure than astonishment . 
`` When will you introduce me to your new friend , Miss Tyrold ? '' 
Camilla , impatient to pay Sir Sedley , followed to speak to her ; but , not aware of her wish , Mrs. Arlbery hurried laughingly on , saying , `` Come , General , let us be gone , that the coach may be last , and then Dennel must pay the fees ! 
The shame and distress natural to every unhackneyed mind , in any necessity of soliciting a pecuniary favour , had now , in that of Camilla , the additional difficulty of coping against the avowed desire of Mrs. Arlbery not to open her purse . 
Intent in thinking only of Edgar , she was not herself aware of this abruptness , till Mrs. Arlbery , following her to her chamber , said , `` Why were you so suddenly haughty to the Major , my dear Miss Tyrold ? 
-- '' exclaimed Camilla , doubting what she heard . 
repeated she in an excess of perturbation ; `` O , he is too good ! 
cried Camilla , blushing high with mingled delight at the idea , and displeasure at its free expression . 
She now went away to dress ; leaving Camilla a new creature ; changed in all her hopes , though overwhelmed with shame at the freedom of this attack , and determined to exert her utmost strength of mind , not to expose to view the secret pleasure with which it filled her . 
She was , however , so absent when they met again , that Mrs. Arlbery , shaking her head , said : `` Ah , my fair friend ! 
So completely was Camilla absorbed in her new ideas , that she forgot both her borrowed guinea , and the state of her purse , till she arrived at the theatre . 
The recollection was then too late ; and she had no resource against completely emptying it . 
She was too happy however , at this instant , to admit any regret . 
Mr. Dennel expressed some curiosity ; Miss Dennel , though she protested she should be frightened out of her wits , said she would not stay at home ; Mrs. Arlbery confessed it would be an amusing sight to see so many representations of the dear human race ; but Camilla spoke not : and scarce heard even the subject of discourse . 
`` You , '' cried the Major , addressing her , `` will be there ? '' 
demanded she . 
`` It will be curious , undoubtedly , '' said Edgar , pleased that she made no answer ; `` but 't is a species of curiosity not likely to attract the most elegant spectators ; and rather , perhaps , adapted to give pleasure to naturalists , than to young ladies . '' 
Softened , at this moment , in every feeling of her heart towards Edgar , she turned to him , and said , `` Do you think it would be wrong to go ? '' 
`` Most certainly then , '' cried she , with quickness , `` I will not go ! '' 
The astonished Edgar looked at her with earnestness , and saw the simplicity of sincerity on her countenance . 
Again he looked at Camilla , and her eyes met his with a sweetness of expression that passed straight to his heart . 
Mrs. Arlbery now led the way to the coach ; the forwardness of the Major , though in her own despight , procured him the hand of Camilla ; but she had left upon Edgar an impression renovating to all his esteem . 
She is still , he thought , the same ; candid , open , flexible ; still , therefore , let me follow her , with such counsel as I am able to give . 
She has accused me of unkindness ; -- She was right ! 
I retreated from her service at the moment when , in honour , I was bound to continue in it . 
Could she , though but lately so dear to me , that all the felicity of my life seemed to hang upon her , become as nothing , because destined to another ? 
Her father has been my father , and so long as she retains his respected name , I will watch by her unceasingly . 
Mrs. Arlbery took the arm of Mr. Dennel , which she did not spare , and his daughter , almost crying with sleep and fatigue , made the same use of Camilla 's . 
She protested she had never been so long upon her feet in her life as that very morning in Knowle Park , and , though she leant upon her companion with as little scruple as upon a walking stick , she frequently stopt short , and declared she should stay upon the road all night , for she could not move another step : and they were still far from the summit , when she insisted upon sitting down , saying fretfully , `` I am sure I wish I was married ! 
Mr. Dennel and Mrs. Arlbery , who neither of them , at any time , took the smallest notice of what she said , passed on , and left the whole weight both of her person and her complaints to Camilla . 
Miss Dennel accepted both the pity and the proposal ; and the substantial arm of her new friend , gave her far superior aid to the slight one of Camilla . 
She now hung back , so terrified that neither Camilla could encourage , nor the woman appease her ; and she was going to run down the hill , forgetting all her weariness , to seek refuge from the servants , when the woman said , `` Why what 's here to do ? 
Miss Dennel was now struck with a surprise , of which Camilla bore an equal share . 
Their new acquaintance appeared herself in some confusion , but having exacted a promise not to be discovered to the world , she told them , she lodged at a house upon Mount Pleasant , just by their 's , whence she often saw them ; that , having a ticket given her , by a friend , for the play , she dressed herself and went into a box , with some very genteel company , who kept their coach , and who sat her down afterwards at another friend 's , where she pretended she should be fetched : `` But I do my own way , '' continued she , `` and nobody knows a word of the matter : for I keep a large bonnet , and cloak , and a checked apron , and a pair of clogs , or pattens , always at this friend 's ; and then when I have put them on , people take me for a mere common person , and I walk on , ever so late , and nobody speaks to me ; and so by that means I get my pleasure , and save my money ; and yet always appear like a gentlewoman when I 'm known . '' 
She then again charged them to be discreet , saying that if this were spread to the world , she should be quite undone , for many ladies that took her about with them , would notice her no more . 
At the same time , as she wished to make acquaintance with such pretty young ladies , she proposed that they should all three meet in a walk before the house , the next morning , and talk together as if for the first time . 
Camilla , who detested all tricks , declined entering into this engagement ; but Miss Dennel , charmed with the ingenuity of her new acquaintance , accepted the appointment . 
Camilla had , however , her own new friend for the opening of the next day . 
cried she , throwing her arms about her neck , `` what am I not destined to owe you ? 
`` Your alarm , at which I can not wonder , '' said Camilla , `` prevented your seeing your safety ; for Lord Newford was with a large party . '' 
-- '' Camilla now felt a little shocked , and colouring and interrupting her , said : `` Is it possible , Mrs. Berlinton -- '' and stopt not knowing how to go on . 
cried she , hiding her face on Camilla 's bosom : `` tell me , at least , tell me , you do not therefore contemn and abhor me ? '' 
said Camilla , terrified at such a preparation ; `` what can I hear that can give you so cruel an idea ? '' 
Camilla , thunderstruck , answered ; `` No , indeed ! 
guard yourself , then , well , '' cried she , bursting into tears , `` from a similar fate ! 
She now hung down her head , weeping and desponding . 
Camilla sought to sooth her , but was so amazed , so fearful , and so perplext , she scarce knew what either to say or to think . 
Camilla was sensibly touched ; and though strangely at a loss what to judge , felt her affections deeply interested . 
`` I dreaded , '' she continued , `` to tell you my name , for I dreaded to sink myself into your contempt , by your knowledge of an alliance you must deem so mercenary . 
Melmond , she then said , believing Miss Lynmere betrothed to Mr. Mandlebert , had quitted Hampshire in misery , to finish his vacation in Wales , with their mutual friends . 
Camilla enquired if she feared any bad consequences , by telling Mr. Berlinton of his impertinence . 
`` Heaven forbid , '' she answered , `` that I should be condemned to speak to Mr. Berlinton of any thing that concerns or befals me ! 
Camilla heard this with grief , but durst not further press a subject so delicate . 
Neither the thoughtlessness of the disposition , nor the gaiety of the imagination of Camilla , could disguise from her understanding the glaring eccentricity of this conduct and character : but she saw them with more of interest than blame ; the various attractions with which they were mixed , blending in her opinion something between pity and admiration , more captivating , though more dangerous , to the fond fancy of youth , than the most solid respect , and best founded esteem . 
When Camilla descended , she found Sir Sedley Clarendel and General Kinsale in attendance ; and saw , from the parlour window , Miss Dennel sauntering before the house , with the newly made acquaintance of the preceding evening . 
The Baronet , who was to drive Mrs. Arlbery , enquired if Camilla would not prefer , also , an open carriage . 
The ride was perfectly pleasing to Camilla , now revived and chearful ; Sir Sedley was free from airs ; Mrs. Arlbery drew them into conversation with one another , and none of them were glad when Mr. Dennel , called `` stop ! 
Camilla , who , supposing she was going , as usual , to the Pantiles , had got into the phaeton without inquiry ; and who , finding afterwards her mistake , concluded they were merely taking an airing , now observed she was advancing towards a crowd , and presently perceived a booth , and an immense sign hung out from it , exhibiting a man monkey , or ourang outang . 
Though excessively flustered , she courageously , and at once , told Mrs. Arlbery she begged to be excused proceeding . 
Camilla then begged to wait in Mr. Dennel 's carriage , that she might keep no one else from the show . 
Sir Sedley , saying it would be an excruciatingly vulgar sight , proposed they should all return ; but she pleaded strongly against breaking up the party , though , while she was handed out , to go back to the coach , the Dennels and Mrs. Mittin had alighted , and it had driven off . 
The chagrin of Camilla was so palpable , that Mrs. Arlbery herself agreed to resign the scheme ; and Sir Sedley , who drew up to them , said he should rejoice in being delivered from it : but Miss Dennel , who was waiting without the booth for her aunt , was ready to cry at the thought of losing the sight , which Mrs. Mittin had assured her was extremely pretty ; and , after some discussion , Camilla was reduced to beg she might do no mischief , and consent to make one . 
A more immediate distress now occurred to her ; she heard Mr. Dennel call out to the man stationed at the entrance of the booth , `` What 's to pay ? '' 
and recollected she had no money left . 
Mr. Dennel and his daughter followed , and Camilla was beginning a hesitating speech to Mrs. Arlbery , as that lady , not attending to her , said to Mr. Dennel : `` Well , frank me also ; but take care what you pay ; I 'm not at all sure I shall ever return it . 
Camilla was now in extreme confusion . 
She put her hand into her pocket , took it out , felt again , and again brought forth the hand empty . 
The Major , who was before her , and who watched her , begged leave to settle with the booth-keeper ; but Camilla , to whom he grew daily more irksome , again preferred a short obligation to the Baronet , and blushingly asked if he would once more be her banker ? 
Before they were seated , the young Ensign , Mr. Macdersey , issuing from a group of gentlemen , addressed himself to Camilla , though with an air that spoke him much discomposed and out of spirits . 
`` I hope you are well , Miss Camilla Tyrold , '' he cried ; `` and have left all your family well ? 
Camilla eagerly started up to second the motion , but her eyes still more expeditiously turned from the door , upon encountering those of Edgar ; who , having met the empty coach of Mr. Dennel , had not been able to refrain from inquiring where its company had been deposited ; nor , upon hearing it was at the accomplished Monkies , from hastening to the spot , to fatisfy himself if or not Camilla had steady to her declaration . 
`` I protest , '' cried Sir Sedley to Camilla , '' 't is your favourite swain from the Northwick assembly ! 
cried Camilla , in a low voice ; `` he will take you literally should he hear you ! '' 
Mr. Dubster , now perceiving her , bowed low from the place where he stood , and called out , `` How do you do , ma'am ? 
Camilla was forced to bow , though she made no answer . 
Macdersey , who joined them , said he had been considering what that fellow had proposed to him , of taking the first blow , and found he could not put up with it : and upon the appearance of Mr. Dubster , who in quitting the booth was preparing , with his usual leisurely solemnity , to approach Camilla , darted forward and seizing him by the collar , exclaimed , `` Retract , sir ! 
Camilla alone had no immediate companion , as the Major was occupied by the Ensign . 
Edgar saw her disengaged . 
He trembled , he wavered ; he wished the Major back ; he wished him still more at a distance too remote ever to return ; he thought he would instantly mount his horse , and gallop towards Beech Park ; but the horse was not ready , and Camilla was in sight ; -- and , in less than a minute , he found himself , scarce knowing how , at her side . 
Camilla felt a pleasure that bounded to her heart , though the late assertions of Mrs. Arlbery prepared her to expect him . 
Camilla , whose present train of thoughts had no discordant tendency , broke through this strangeness herself , and said : `` How frivolous I must appear to you ! 
repeated she ; `` I never thought you either ! 
never -- and if once again -- '' she stopt ; embarrassed , ashamed . 
cried he in a tremulous voice ; `` what would Miss Camilla say ? 
-- would she again -- Is there yet -- What would Miss Camilla say ? 
-- '' Camilla felt confounded , both with ideas of what he meant to allude to , and what construction he had put upon her half finished sentence . 
Impatient , however , to clear that , `` If once more , '' she cried , `` you could prevail with yourself -- now and then -- from time to time -- to give me an hint , an idea -- of what you think right -- I will promise , if not a constant observance , at least a neverfailing sense of your kindness . '' 
The revulsion in the heart , in the whole frame of Edgar , was almost too powerful for restraint : he panted for an immediate explanation of every past and every present difficulty , and a final avowal that she was either self-destined to the Major , or that he had no rival to fear : But before he could make any answer , a sudden and violent shower broke up the conference , and grouped the whole party under a large tree . 
Yet where the wind precipitated the rain , Edgar stationed himself , and held his hat to intercept its passage to Camilla ; and as her eye involuntarily was caught by the shower that pattered upon his head and shoulders , she insensibly pressed nearer to the trunk of the tree , to afford more shelter to him from its branches . 
cried she , turning with quickness to Camilla ; `` Lord , miss -- I do n't know your name , -- how your poor hat is all I do n't know how ! 
interrupted she ; `` what signifies a man 's old coat ? 
Edgar , not daring to speak again to Camilla , and not able to address any one else , took his leave ; enchanted that he was authorized , once more , to inform himself with openness of the state of her affairs , and of her conduct . 
And Camilla , dwelling with delight upon the discernment of Mrs. Arlbery , blest the happy penetration that had endowed her with courage to speak again to Edgar in terms of friendship and confidence . 
Mrs. Mittin , declaring she could not eat till she had seen what could be done for the hat of Miss Tyrold , accompanied her up stairs , took it off herself , wiped it , smoothed , and tried to new arrange it ; and , at last , failing to succeed , insisted upon taking it home , to put it in order , and promised to return it in the morning time enough for the Pantiles . 
Camilla was much ashamed ; but she had no means to buy another , and she had now lost her indifference to going abroad . 
She thought , therefore , this new acquaintance at least as useful at she was officious , and accepted her civility with thanks . 
The first object Camilla perceived upon her entrance was Edgar , and the smile with which she met his eye brought him instantly to her side . 
That smile was not less radiant for his nearer approach ; nor was his pleasure in it less animated for observing that Major Cerwood was not of her party , nor as yet in the room . 
The opportunity seemed inviting to engage her himself ; to suggest and to find it irresistible was the same thing , and he inquired if her whole evening were arranged , or she would go down two dances with an old friend . 
The softness of her assent was even exquisite delight to him ; and , as they all walked up and down the apartment , though he addressed her but little , and though she spoke but in answer , every word he uttered she received as couching some gentle meaning , and every syllable she replied , he thought conveyed something of flattering interest : and although all was upon open and unavoidable subjects , he had no eyes but for her , she had no attention but for him . 
Like the rest he passed Mrs. Arlbery without seeming to notice her , and was passing Camilla in the same manner ; but not aware this was only to be fine , like the party to which he belonged , she very innocently spoke to him herself , to hope he got safe to his lodgings , without feeling any further ill effect from his accident . 
Sir Sedley , though internally much gratified by this interest in his safety , which in Camilla was the result of having herself endangered it , looked as if he scarce recollected her , and making hastily a kind of half bow , walked on with his company . 
Camilla , who had no view , nor one serious thought concerning him , was rather amused than displeased by his caprices ; and was preparing to relate the history of his lameness to Edgar , who seemed surprised and even hurt by her addressing him , and by his so slightly passing her , when the entrance of another splendid party interrupted all discourse . 
And here , to her utter amaze , she beheld , as chief of the group , her romantic new friend ; not leading , indeed , like Lady Alithea Selmore , a train , but surrounded by admirers , who , seeking no eye but hers , seemed dim and humble planets , moving round a radiant sun . 
Camilla now , forgetting Sir Sedley , would have taken this moment to narrate her adventure with Mrs. Berlinton , had not her design been defeated by the approach of the Major . 
He spoke to Camilla with his usual air of devotion , told her he had dined with Mrs. Berlinton , to whose husband , whom he had taken for her grandfather , he had been just introduced ; and begged to know of Mrs. Arlbery if he might have the pleasure of bringing them all acquainted ; an offer which Camilla , unauthorised by Mrs. Berlinton , had not ventured to make . 
Edgar had made way upon the approach of the Major , who wore an air of superior claim extremely unpleasant to him ; but , since already engaged to Camilla , he meant to return to her when the dancing began . 
She concluded he left her but to speak to some acquaintance , and was , herself , amply occupied in observing her new friend . 
The light in which she now beheld her , admired , pursued , and adulated , elegantly adorned in her person , and evidently with but one rival for fame and fashion in Tunbridge , filled her with astonishment . 
Nothing could less assort with her passion for solitude , her fondness for literary and sentimental discussions , and her enthusiasm in friendship . 
But her surprise was mixed with praise and admiration , when she reflected upon the soft humility and caressing sweetness of her manners , yet found her , by general consent , holding this elevated rank in society . 
The Major earnestly pressed to conduct Camilla to this coterie , assuring her Mrs. Berlinton would not have passed , had she seen her , for , during dinner , and at coffee , she had talked of nobody else . 
Camilla heard this with pleasure , but shrunk from all advances , and strove rather to hide than shew herself , that Mrs. Berlinton might have full liberty either to seek or avoid her . 
Edgar , who had felt sensibly mortified to observe , when he retreated , that the eyes and attention of Camilla had been wholly bestowed upon what he considered merely as a new scene , was now coming forward ; when he saw Mrs. Berlinton hastily rise , suddenly break from all her adulators , and , with quick steps and animated gestures , traverse the apartment , to address Camilla , whom , taking by both her hands , which she pressed to her heart , she conjured , in the most flattering terms , to accompany her back . 
Camilla was much gratified ; yet , from delicacy to Mrs. Arlbery , stimulated by the fear of missing her expected partner in the country dances , declined the invitation : Mrs. Berlinton looked disappointed ; but said she would not be importunate , and returned alone . 
Camilla , a little disturbed , besought the Major to follow , with an offer of spending with her , if she pleased , the whole of the ensuing day . 
To Camilla this hearing was distressing ; to Edgar it was scarcely endurable . 
But she could not retract , and Edgar was stopt in the inquiries he meant to make concerning this striking new acquaintance , by an abrupt declaration from Mrs. Arlbery , that the Rooms were insufferable , and she would immediately go home . 
She then gave her hand to the General , and Miss Dennel took the arm of Camilla , murmuring , that she would never leave the Rooms at such an early hour again , when once she was married . 
To quit Edgar thus , at the very moment of renewed intercourse and amity , seemed too cruel ; and Camilla , though with blushes , and stammering , whispered Mrs. Arlbery , `` What can I do , ma'am ? 
This scheme was , to Camilla , the most pleasant that could be proposed ; and , at the same instant , the Major returned to her , with these words written with a pencil upon the back of a letter . 
Camilla , obliged again to have recourse to the Major , wrote , upon the same paper , `` Can you have the goodness to convey me to Mount Pleasant to-night , if I stay ? '' 
and begged him to bring her an answer . 
She entreated , also , Mrs. Arlbery to stop till it arrived , which was almost in the same minute ; for the eye of Mrs. Berlinton had but glanced upon the words , ere her soft and lovely form was again with their fair writer , with whom , smiling and delighted , she walked back , arm in arm , to her place . 
Camilla , thus distinguished , became now herself an object of peculiar notice ; her own personal claim to particular attention , her dejection had forfeited , for it had robbed her eyes of their animation , and her countenance of its play ; but no contagion spreads with greater certainty nor greater speed than that of fashion ; slander itself is not more sure of promulgation . 
She was now looked at by all present as if seen for the first time ; every one discovered in her some charm , some grace , some excellence ; those who , the minute before , had passed her with perfect indifference , said it was impossible to see and not be struck with her ; and all agreed she could appear upon no spot under the sun , and not instinctively be singled out , as formed to shine in the highest sphere . 
But he by whom this transaction was observed with most pleasure , was Sir Sedley Clarendel . 
The extraordinary service he had performed for Camilla , and the grateful interest she had shewn him in return , had led him to consider her with an attention so favourable , that , without half her merit , or half her beauty , she could not have failed rising in his estimation , and exciting his regard : and she had now a superior charm that distanced every other ; she had been asked to dance , yet refused it , by a man of celebrity in the ton ; and she was publicly sought and caressed by the only rival at Tunbridge , in that species of renoun , to Lady Alithea Selmore . 
All that was voluntary of her attention was bestowed exclusively upon Camilla , though , when addressed and called upon by others , she answered without impatience , and looked without displeasure . 
This conduct , at the same time that it shewed her in a point of view the most amiable , raised Camilla higher and higher in the eyes of the bye-standers : and , in a few minutes more , the general cry throughout the assembly was , to inquire who was the young lady thus brought forward by Mrs. Berlinton . 
Camilla , meanwhile , unsuspicious of his remarks , and persuaded every civility in her power was due to Sir Sedley , was gay , pleased , and pleasing ; happy to consider herself under the guidance , and restored to the amity of Edgar , and determined to acquaint him with all her affairs , and consult him upon all her proceedings . 
She was soon gained , for she was not addicted to denials ; but the application which ensued to Camilla was acceded to less promptly . 
But Mrs. Berlinton protested she would not rise if she were the only novice to be exhibited ; and the Major then prepared to prostrate himself at the feet of Camilla ; who , hastily , and ashamed , stood up , to prevent an action that Edgar might misinterpret . 
Hoping , however , now , to at least draw him into their set , she ventured to acknowledge to Mrs. Berlinton , that she was already engaged , in case she danced . 
To Camilla what belonged to pleasantry in this business was of short duration . 
When the cotillon was over , she saw nothing of Edgar . 
She looked around , mortified , disappointed . 
He had gathered the subject was dancing , and he saw the Major most earnest with Camilla . 
He was sure it was for her hand , and concluded it was for a country dance ; but could she forfeit her engagement ? 
were matters so far advanced , as to make her so openly shew him all prevailing , all powerful , not only over all rivals , but , according to the world 's established customs upon these occasions , over all decorum ? 
Presently , he saw the Major half kneel ; he saw her rise to prevent the prostration ; and he heard the dance called . 
He could only settle his ideas by supposing she really loved Major Cerwood , and had suffered her character to be infected by the indelicacy that made a part of his own . 
Yet why had she so strove to deny all regard , all connection ? 
He was too proud to leave the Major , whom he despised , such a triumph , and too much hurt to permit Camilla herself to know him so poignantly wounded . 
She could not , indeed , but be struck by his retreat ; he resolved , however , to try to meet with her the next day , and to speak to her with the amity they had so lately arranged , yet in a way that should manifest him wholly free from all other interest or view . 
All pleasure to Camilla was completely over from the moment that Edgar disappeared . 
When she returned to Mount Pleasant , Mrs. Arlbery , whom she found alone , said , `` Did I not understand that you were going to dance with Mr. Mandlebert ? 
Camilla , colouring , related the history of the cotillon ; and said , she feared , not knowing how she had been circumstanced , he was displeased . 
Camilla pretended to understand this in a mere general sense , and wished her good night . 
The next morning , at an early hour , her chamber door was opened with great suddenness , and no preparation , and Mrs. Mittin tript nimbly into the room , with a hat in her hand . 
my dear Miss Tyrold , '' cried she , `` for now that other young lady has told me your name , and I writ it down upon paper , that I might not forget it again : look at your hat now ! 
Away she went , triumphant , with the trophy of her notability ; but presently returned , saying , `` Do , pray , Miss Tyrold , write me down that other lady 's name upon a scrap of paper . 
Camilla complied , and expressed her shame to have caused her so much trouble . 
cried Camilla , staring . 
asked Camilla , alarmed . 
Camilla was now in extreme embarrassment . 
She had concluded Mrs. Mittin had only newly arranged the ornaments , and had not the smallest idea of incurring a debt which she had no means to discharge . 
`` And what , '' stammered out Camilla , `` besides my thanks , do I owe you ? '' 
This was , at least , some respite ; though Camilla felt the disagreeable necessity of increasing her intended demand upon Mrs. Arlbery . 
Camilla said no , with a sigh attributed to the ear-rings , but due to a tender recollection of the raffle in which Edgar had procured her the trinket she most valued . 
Mrs. Mittin proposed accompanying them , and asked Camilla to introduce her to Mrs. Arlbery . 
This was very disagreeable ; but she knew not how , after the civility she owed her , to refuse . 
Come , Miss Tyrold , do n't hold back ; who knows but you may win ? 
Camilla turned away , and Mrs. Arlbery did not listen to a word ; but when Sir Sedley said , `` They are really very pretty ; wo n't you throw ? '' 
We shall be absolutely scouted , my dear Miss Tyrold , if we shrink . 
Camilla answered , she had no intention to try for them . 
`` I have not a half guinea -- I have -- I have no -- gold -- in my purse , '' answered Camilla , with a face deeply tinged with red . 
Camilla positively refused any share ; but Mrs. Mittin said it would be a shame for such a young lady to go without her chance , and wrote down her name next to that of Mrs. Arlbery ; while the Major , without further question , put down a guinea upon the counter . 
Camilla could not endure this ; yet from a youthful shame of confessing poverty , forced herself to the ear of Mrs. Arlbery , and whispered an intreaty that she would pay the guinea herself . 
This was by no means lost upon Sir Sedley ; he felt flattered -- he felt softened ; he thought Camilla looked unusually lovely ; he began to wonder at the coldness of Mandlebert , and to lament that the first affections of so fair a creature should be cast away . 
He had entered the shop during the contest about the raffle , and seen Major Cerwood pay for Camilla as well as for Mrs. Arlbery . 
Camilla felt extremely vexed to quit the shop , without clearing up the history of the dance ; and Edgar , seeing the persevering Major at her side as she departed , in urgency to put any species of period to his own sufferings , followed the party , and precipitately began a discourse with Lord O'Lerney upon making the tour of Europe . 
Camilla , for whom is was designed , intent upon planning her own defence , heard nothing that was said , till Lord O'Lerney asked him if his route would be through Switzerland , and he answered : `` My route is not quite fixed , my lord . '' 
Startled , she now listened , and Mrs. Arlbery , whom she held by the arm , was equally surprised , and looked to see how she bore this intimation . 
`` I fancy within a month , '' answered Edgar ; and , arm in arm , they walked away together , as Camilla and her party quitted the Pantiles for Mount Pleasant . 
Fortunately for Camilla , no eye was upon her at this period but that of Mrs. Arlbery ; her changed countenance , else , must have betrayed still more widely her emotion . 
Camilla scarce knew what she did , or what she suffered ; the suddenness of surprise , which involved so severe a disappointment , almost stupified her faculties . 
Camilla , affecting not to understand her , said she had never been in better health . 
cried Mrs. Arlbery , laughing ; but seeing she only redoubled her distress , more seriously added , `` Will you suffer me , my dear Miss Tyrold , to play the old friend , also , and speak to you with openness ? '' 
Camilla durst not say no , though she feared to say yes . 
Camilla , trembling , had now no wish but to fly ; she fastened her eyes upon the door , and every thought was devoted to find the means of escape . 
It is not speech , my dear Miss Tyrold , that makes detections : It only proclaims them . '' 
A sigh was all the answer of Camilla : though , assured , thus , she had nothing to gain by flight , she forced herself to stay . 
Surprised off all sort of guard , Camilla exclaimed , `` O no ! 
Glowing with opposing yet strong emotions at these words , the countenance of Camilla asked an explanation , in defiance of her earnest desire to look indifferent or angry . 
cried Camilla , in whose pride now every other feeling was concentrated , `` he does not , can not see it ! 
Confounded , irritated , and wounded , Camilla remained a moment silent , and then , though scarce articulately , answered : `` If such is you opinion -- at least he shall see it -- fancy it , I mean -- no more ! 
Irresistibly , though most unwillingly , appeased by this unexpected conclusion , she turned away to hide a blush in which anger had not solely a place , and suffered Mrs. Arlbery to go on . 
`` But why , ma'am , '' cried Camilla , in a faultering voice ; `` why shall you suppose I will take any method at all ? '' 
With a colour yet deeper than ever , Camilla resentfully repeated , `` Security ! '' 
The very idea of such a suspicion offended Camilla beyond all else that had passed ; Mrs. Arlbery appeared to her indelicate , unkind , and ungenerous , and regretting she had ever seen , and repenting she had ever known her , she sunk upon a chair in a passionate burst of tears . 
Camilla thanked her , dried her eyes , and strove to appear composed ; but she was too deeply affected for internal consolation : she felt herself degraded in being openly addressed as a love-sick girl ; and injured in being supposed , for a moment , capable of any mercenary view . 
She desired to be excused going out , and to have the evening to herself ; not on account of the expence of the play ; she had again wholly forgotten her poverty ; but to breathe a little alone , and indulge the sadness of her mind . 
The first moments of her departure were spent by Camilla in the deepest dejection ; from which , however , the recollection of her father , and her solemn engagement to him , soon after awakened her . 
She read again his injunctions , and resolving not to add to her unhappiness by any failure in her duty , determined to make her appearance with some spirit before Mrs. Arlbery set out . 
Camilla , after a severe conflict from this note , which she concluded to be the mere work of Mrs. Arlbery to draw her from retirement , sent word she would wait upon her . 
Camilla , presently descending , looked away from Mrs. Arlbery ; but , unsuspicious as she was undesigning , thanked the Baronet for his message , and told him she had already repented her solitary plan . 
In the way to the theatre , Camilla , with much confusion , recollected her empty purse ; but could not , before Mr. and Miss Dennel and Sir Sedley , prevail with herself to make it known ; she could only determine to ask Mrs. Arlbery to pay for her at present , and defer the explanation till night . 
Camilla , hurrying after her , whispered , `` May I beg you to lend me some silver ? '' 
Sir Sedley , little suspicious of the truth , yet flattered to be always called upon to be the banker of Camilla , obeyed with alacrity . 
Mrs. Arlbery placed Camilla upon a seat before her , and motioned to the Baronet to remain in a row above ; and then , in a low voice , said : `` My dear Clarendel , do you know they have let that poor girl come to Tunbridge without a sixpence in her pocket ! '' 
He endeavoured , as usual , to monopolize Camilla ; but while her thoughts were all upon Edgar , the whole she could command of her attention was bestowed upon Sir Sedley . 
This was not unobserved by Edgar , who now again wavered in believing she loved the Major : but the doubt brought with it no pleasure ; it led him only the more to contemn her . 
Does she turn , thought he , thus , from one to the other , with no preference but of accident or caprice ? 
Is her favour thus light of circulation ? 
Already is she thus versed in the common dissipation of coquetry ? 
At night , as soon as she went to her own room , Mrs. Arlbery followed her , and said : `` My dear Miss Tyrold , I know much better than you how many six-pences and three-pences are perpetually wanted at places such as these . 
Camilla felt really thankful for being spared an opening upon this subject . 
She consented to borrow two guineas ; but Mrs. Arlbery would not leave her with less than five , adding , `` I insist upon doubling it in a day or two . 
-- '' Though shocked to appear thus destitute , Camilla was somewhat relieved to have no debt but with Mrs. Arlbery ; for she resolved to pay Sir Sedley and the milliner the next day , and to settle with Mrs. Arlbery upon her return to Etherington . 
Mrs. Mittin , in a morning visit to Camilla , found out that she had only the same cap for this occasion that she had worn upon every other ; and , assuring her it was grown so old-fashioned , that not a lady 's maid in Tunbridge would now be seen in it , she offered to pin her up a turban , which should come to next to nothing , yet should be the prettiest , and simplest , and cheapest thing that ever was seen . 
Camilla , though a stranger to vanity , and without any natural turn to extravagance , was neither of an age , nor a philosophy , to be unmoved by the apprehension of being exposed to ridicule from her dress : she thankfully , therefore , accepted the proposal ; and Mrs. Mittin , taking a guinea , said , she would pay Mrs. Tillden for the hat , at the same time that she bought a new handkerchief for the turban . 
As the turban was made up from a pattern of one prepared for Mrs. Berlinton , Camilla had every reason to be satisfied of its elegance . 
Nor did Mrs. Mittin involve her in much distress how her own trouble might be recompensed ; the cap she found unfit for Camilla , she could contrive , she said , to alter for herself ; and as a friend had given her a ticket for the ball , it would be mighty convenient to her , as she had nothing of the kind ready . 
Far different were the sensations with which Edgar and Camilla saw each other this night , from those with which , so lately they had met in the same apartment . 
Edgar thought her degenerating into the character of a coquette , and Camilla , in his intended tour , anticipated a period to all their intercourse . 
She was received , meanwhile , in general , with peculiar and flattering attention . 
Sir Sedley Clarendel made up to her , with public smiles and courtesy ; even Lord Newford and Sir Theophilus Jarard , though they passed by Mrs. Arlbery without speaking to her , singled out Camilla for their devoirs . 
The distinction paid her by the admired Mrs. Berlinton had now not only marked her as an object whom it would not be derogatory to treat with civility , but as one who might , hence-forward , be regarded herself as admitted into certain circles . 
The conversation of the two men of the ton with Camilla was soon over . 
Edgar occupied the space they vacated the moment of their departure ; but not alone ; Mrs. Mittin came into it with him , eager to tell Camilla how every body had admired her turban ; how sweetly she looked in it ; how every body said , they should not have known her again , it became her so ; and how they all agreed her head had never been so well dressed before . 
Edgar , when he could be heard , began speaking of Sir Sedley Clarendel ; he felt miserable in what he thought her inconsiderate encouragement of such impertinence ; and the delicacy which restrained him from expressing his opinion of the Major , had no weight with him here , as jealousy had no share in his dislike to the acquaintance : he believed the young Baronet incapable of all love but for himself , and a decidedly destined bachelor : without , therefore , the smallest hesitation , he plainly avowed that he had never met with a more thoroughly conceited fop , a more elaborate and self-sufficient coxcomb . 
`` You see him only , '' said Camilla , `` with the impression made by his general appearance ; and that is all against him : I always look for his better qualities and rejoice in finding them . 
Edgar , amazed , intreated an explanation ; and , when she had given it , struck and affected , clasped his hands , and exclaimed : `` How providential such a rescue ! 
Edgar , returning to Camilla , confessed he had too hastily judged Sir Sedley , when he concluded him a fool , as well as a fop ; `` For , '' added he , with a smile , `` I see , now , one of those epithets is all he merits . 
Camilla was now intent to clear the history of the cotillon ; when Mrs. Berlinton approaching , and , with graceful fondness , taking her hand , entreated to be indulged with her society : and , since she meant not to dance , for Edgar had not asked her , and the Major she had refused , she could not resist her invitation . 
Camilla quitted not this enchantress till summoned by Mrs. Arlbery ; who , seeing herself again , from the arrival of Lady Alithea Selmore , without any distinguished party , that lady drawing into her circle all people of any consequence not already attracted by Mrs. Berlinton , grew sick of the ball and the rooms , and impatient to return home . 
Camilla , in retiring , presented , folded in a paper , the guinea , half-guinea , and silver , she had borrowed of Sir Sedley ; who received it without presuming at any contest ; though not , after what he had heard from Mrs. Arlbery , without reluctance . 
Edgar watched the instant when Camilla moved from the gay group ; but Mrs. Mittin watched it also ; and , approaching her more speedily , because with less embarrassment , seized her arm before he could reach her : and before he could , with any discretion , glide to her other side , Miss Dennel was there . 
Edgar was already there ; he had no power to keep away from any place where he was sure to behold Camilla ; and a raffle brought to his mind the most tender recollections . 
He languished to see Camilla presented to this lady , in whose manners and conversation , dignity and simplicity were equally blended . 
While he was yet , though absently , conversing with them , Lord O'Lerney pointed out Camilla to Lady Isabella . 
what can make Camilla unhappy ? 
A good word from Lord O'Lerney quieted many fears ; he hoped he had been unnecessarily alarmed ; he determined , in future , to judge her more favourably . 
Why does she not come this way ? 
thought Edgar ; why does she not gather from these mild , yet understanding moralists , instruction that might benefit all her future life ? 
The two former no sooner saw Camilla , and perceived neither Lady Alithea Selmore , nor Mrs. Berlinton , than they made up to her ; and Sir Sedley , who now found she was completely established in the bon ton , felt something of pride mix with pleasure in publicly availing himself of his intimacy with her ; and something like interest mix with curiosity , in examining if Edgar were struck with her ready attention to him . 
A general rising and inquietude to look out for Mrs. Berlinton , gave Edgar , at length , an opportunity to stand next to Camilla . 
`` I wonder , '' said Camilla , `` she can think the chance of the ear-rings worth so high a price ! '' 
A footman , in a splendid livery , now entering , inquired for Miss Tyrold . 
She was pointed out to him by Major Cerwood , and he delivered her a letter from Mrs. Berlinton . 
Camilla blushed excessively in proclaiming she was chosen Mrs. Berlinton 's proxy . 
Edgar saw with tenderness her modest confusion , and , with a pleasure the most touching , read the favourable impression it made upon Lord O'Lerney and Lady Isabella . 
Camilla , affected by this unexpected address , could only look her desire for an explanation . 
cried Camilla warmly ; `` though I dare not assert she is always coolly upon her guard . '' 
Camilla was startled . 
She had not seen her conduct in this light : yet her understanding refused to deny it might bear this interpretation . 
Charmed with the candour of her silence , Edgar continued , `` How wide from all that is open to similar comment , is the carriage and behaviour of Lady Isabella ! 
-- '' He stopt ; for Camilla again started . 
The irrepressible frankness of her nature revolted against denying how much this last sentence struck her , and she ingenuously exclaimed : `` O that this most amiable young creature were but more aware of this duty ! '' 
`` Ah , my dear Miss Camilla , '' cried Edgar , with energy , `` since you feel and own -- and with you , that is always one -- this baneful deficiency , drop , or at least suspend an intercourse too hazardous to be indulged with propriety ! 
See what she may be sometime hence , ere you contract further intimacy . 
At present , unexperienced and unsuspicious , her dangers may be yours . 
Fly , fly from it , my dear Miss Camilla ! 
Camilla was deeply touched . 
An interest so warm in her welfare was soothing , and the name of her mother rendered it awful ; yet , thus united , it appeared to her more strongly than ever to announce itself as merely fraternal . 
She could not suppress a sigh ; but he attributed it to the request he had urged , and , with much concern , added : `` What I have asked of you , then , is too severe ? '' 
Again irresistibly sighing , yet collecting all her force to conceal the secret cause , she answered , `` If she is thus exposed to danger -- if her situation is so perilous , ought I not rather to stay by , and help to support her , than by abandoning , perhaps contribute to the evil you think awaiting her ? '' 
`` Generous Camilla ! '' 
-- '' No more could be said , for all preliminaries had been settled , and the throwing being arranged to take place alphabetically , she was soon summoned to represent Mrs. Berlinton . 
From this time , Edgar could speak to her no more : even the Major could scarcely make way to her : the two men of the ton would not quit her , and Sir Sedley Clarendel appeared openly devoted to her . 
The proof he had just received that her intrinsic worth was in its first state of excellence , had come home to his heart , and the fear of seeing her altered and spoilt , by the flatteries and dangers which environed her , with his wavering belief in her engagement with Major Cerwood , made him more wretched than ever . 
But when , some time after , she was called upon to throw for herself , the recollection that , from the former raffle , her half-guinea , even when the prize was in her hand , had been voluntarily withdrawn to be bestowed upon a poor family , so powerfully affected him , that he could not rest in the shop ; he was obliged to breathe a freer air , and to hide his disturbance by a retreat . 
Her throw was the highest the dice had yet afforded . 
A Miss Williams alone came after her , whose throw was the lowest ; Miss Camilla Tyrold , therefore , was proclaimed to be the winner . 
This second testimony of the favour of fortune was a most pleasant surprise to Camilla , and made the room resound with felicitations , till they were interrupted by a violent quarrel upon the Pantiles , whence the voice of Macdersey was heard , hollooing out : `` Do n't talk , I say sir ! 
Edgar , almost without knowing it , followed Camilla , but he could displace neither the Baronet nor the Major , who , one with a look of open exultation , and the other with an air of determined perseverance , retained each his post at her side . 
He saw that all her voluntary attention was to Sir Sedley , and that the Major had none but what was called for and inevitable . 
was she seeking to obtain in the Baronet a new adorer , or to excite jealousy , through his means , in an old one ? 
Silent he walked on , perpetually exclaiming to himself : `` Can it be Camilla , the ingenuous , the artless Camilla , I find it so difficult to fathom , to comprehend , to trust ? 
Mrs. Arlbery now , impelled with concern for Camilla , and resentment against Edgar , renewed the subject of her opinion and advice upon his character and conduct . 
`` My dear young friend , '' cried she , `` I can not bear to see your days , your views , your feelings , thus fruitlessly consumed : I have observed this young man narrowly , and I am convinced he is not worth your consideration . '' 
Camilla , deeply colouring , was beginning to assure her she had no need of this counsel ; but Mrs. Arlbery , not listening , continued . 
Camilla attempted to laugh at this portrait ; but Mrs. Arlbery intreated her to consider it as faithful and exact . 
Excessively , and very seriously offended , Camilla earnestly besought to be spared any hints of such a nature . 
`` I know well , '' cried she , `` how repugnant to seventeen is every idea of life that is rational . 
Let us , therefore , set aside , in our discussions , any thing so really beneficial , as a solid connection formed with a view to the worldly comforts of existence , and speak of Sir Sedley 's devoirs merely as the instrument of teaching Mandlebert , that he is not the only rich , young , and handsome man in this lower sphere , who has viewed Miss Camilla Tyrold with complacency . 
Camilla , distressed and confused , sought to parry the whole as raillery : but Mrs. Arlbery would not be turned aside from her subject and purpose . 
this is far -- '' Camilla began , meaning to say , far from the character of Mandlebert ; but ashamed of undertaking his defence , she stopt short , and only mentally added , Even excellence such as his can not , then , withstand prejudice ! 
Camilla , irresistibly appeased by a picture so flattering to all her best feelings , and dearest wishes , looked down ; angry with herself to find she felt no longer angry with Mrs. Arlbery . 
She then left the room ; but Camilla dwelt upon nothing she had uttered except the one dear and inviting project of proving her disinterestedness to Edgar . 
if once , '' she cried , `` I could annihilate every mercenary suspicion ! 
Wherever she appeared , she was sure of distinction : '' 'T is Miss Tyrold , the friend of Mrs. Berlinton , '' was buzzed round the moment she was seen ; and the particular favour in which she stood with some votaries of the ton , made even her artlessness , her retired education , and her ignorance of all that pertained to the certain circles , past over and forgiven , in consideration of her personal attractions , her youth , and newness . 
With such a character , where virtue had so little guide even while innocence presided ; where the person was so alluring , and the situation so open to temptation , Edgar saw with almost every species of concern the daily increasing friendship of Camilla . 
Yet while he feared for her firmness , he knew not how to blame her fondness ; nor where so much was amiable in its object , could he cease to wish that more were right . 
Thus again lived and died another week ; and the fourth succeeded with no actual occurrence , but a new change of opinion in Mrs. Arlbery , that forcibly and cruelly affected the feelings of Camilla . 
Uninformed of the motive that occasioned the indifference with which Edgar beheld the newly awakened gallantry of Sir Sedley , and the pleasure with which Camilla received it , Mrs. Arlbery observed his total unconcern , first with surprise , next with perplexity , and finally with a belief he was seriously resolved against forming any connection with her himself . 
This she took an early opportunity to intimate to Camilla , warmly exhorting her to drive him fast from her mind . 
Camilla assured her that no task could be more easy ; but the disappointment of the project with respect to Sir Sedley , which she blushed to have adopted , hurt her in every possible direction . 
Coquetry was as foreign to the ingenuousness of her nature , as to the dignity of all her early maternal precepts . 
She had hastily encouraged the devoirs of the Baronet , upon the recommendation of a woman she loved and admired ; but now , that the failure of her aim brought her to reflexion , she felt penitent and ashamed to have heeded any advice so contrary to the singleness of the doctrines of her father , and so inferior to the elevation of every sentiment she had ever heard from her mother . 
The raillery which Mrs. Arlbery spared not upon the occasion added greatly to his pique , and his mortification was so visible , that Camilla perceived it , and perceived it with pain , with shame , and with surprise . 
She thought now , for the first time , that the public homage he had paid her had private and serious motives , and that what she imagined mere sportive gallantry , arose from a growing attachment . 
This idea had no gratifying power ; believing Edgar without care fot her , she could not hope it would stimulate his regard ; and conceiving she had herself excited the partiality by wilful civilities , she could feel only reproach from a conquest , unduly , unfairly , uningenuously obtained . 
In proportion as these self-upbraidings made her less deserving in her own eyes , the merits of the young Baronet seemed to augment ; and in considering herself as culpable for having raised his regard , she appeared before him with a humility that gave a softness to her look and manners , which soon proved as interesting to Sir Sedley as her marked gaiety had been flattering . 
When she perceived this , she felt distressed anew . 
This was instantly noticed , and instantly commented upon by Mrs. Arlbery , who again , and strongly pointed out to Camilla , that to save her youth from being wasted by fruitless expectation , she must forget young Mandlebert , and study only her own amusement . 
Camilla dissented not from the opinion ; but the doctrine to which it was easy to agree , it was difficult to put in practice ; and her ardent mind believed itself fettered for ever , and for ever unhappy . 
Camilla would here instantly have broken up the conversation , but Mrs. Arlbery insisted upon being heard . 
Camilla resentfully interrupted her , disclaiming with Sir Sedley , as with every one else , all possibility of alliance from motives so degrading ; and persisted , in declaring , that the most moderate subsistence with freedom , would be preferable to the most affluent obtained by any mercenary engagement . 
Far from meditating upon this discourse with any view to following its precepts , Camilla found it necessary to call all her original fondness for Mrs. Arlbery to her aid , to forgive the plainness of her attack , or the worldliness of her notions : and all that rested upon her mind for consideration was , her belief in the serious regard of Sir Sedley , which , as she apprehended it to be the work of her own designed exertions , she could only think of with contrition . 
Camilla , however , was not more pleased by his adroitness , than pained to observe the severe aspect with which his keeper issued his orders . 
She inquired by what means he had obtained such authority . 
repeated she , with disgust ; how is it possible you can beat such a poor delicate little creature ? '' 
`` And how can you have the cruelty , '' cried Camilla , indignantly , `` to treat in such a manner a poor little inoffensive animal who does not understand what you require ? '' 
exclaimed she ; `` do you ever pinch them ? '' 
cried she ! 
`` How should I rejoice , '' cried Camilla , `` to rescue this one poor unoffending and oppressed little animal from such tyranny ! '' 
Then , taking out her purse , she desired to know what he would have for it . 
Camilla , with a constrained laugh , but a very natural blush , put up her purse , and said : `` Thou must linger on , then , in captivity , thou poor little undeserving sufferer , for I can not help thee ! '' 
Camilla , who had imagined it would have cost half a guinea , was now more ashamed , because equally incapable to answer such a demand ; she declined , therefore , the composition , and the man was dismissed . 
At night , when she returned to her own room from the play , she saw the little bulfinch , reposing in a superb cage , upon her table . 
Delighted first , and next perplexed , she flew to Mrs. Arlbery , and inquired whence it came . 
Camilla could not now doubt but Sir Sedley had given this commission to his servant , who could easily place the cage in her room , from his constant access to the house . 
She was enchanted to see the little animal relieved from so painful a life , but hesitated not a moment in resolving to refuse its acceptance . 
When Sir Sedley came the next day , she carried it down , and , with a smile of open pleasure , thanked him for giving her so much share in his generous liberality ; and asked if he could take it home with him in his carriage , or , if she should send it to his hotel . 
Sir Sedley was disappointed , yet felt the propriety of her delicacy and her spirit . 
He did not deny the step he had taken ; but told her that having hastily , from the truth of reflection her compassion had awakened , ordered his servant to follow the man , and buy the bird , he had forgotten , till it arrived , his incapability of taking care of it . 
Camilla , instinctively , would with unfeigned joy , have accepted such a trust : but she thought she saw something archly significant in the eye of Mrs. Arlbery , and therefore stammered out , she was afraid she should herself be too little at home to secure its safety . 
Sir Sedley , looking extremely blank , said , it would be better to re-deliver it to the man , brute as he was , than to let it be unprotected ; but , where generosity touched Camilla , reflection ever flew her ; and off all guard at such an idea , she exclaimed she would rather relinquish going out again while at Tunbridge , than render his humanity abortive ; and ran off precipitately with the bird to her chamber . 
Camilla , much provoked , would now have had the bird conveyed after him ; but Mrs. Arlbery assured her , inconsistency in a woman was as flattering , as in a man it was tedious and alarming ; and persuaded her to let the matter rest . 
Camilla was still more agitated ; for though uncertain if she were right or wrong in the appeal she meant to make , to converse with him openly , to be guided by his counsel , and to convince him of her superiority to all mercenary allurements were pleasures to make her look forward to the approaching conference with almost trembling delight . 
His manner was hurried , though he appeared gay and frisky as usual ; Camilla felt a little alarmed ; but Mrs. Arlbery asked if he would accompany them . 
At any other time , Camilla would have proposed giving up the Rooms entirely : but her desire to see Edgar , and the species of engagement she had made with him , counterbalanced every inconvenience . 
She fetched him one . 
`` That 's a good child , '' cried he , patting her cheek ; `` so now sit down , and write a short letter for me . 
She wrote -- Dear Sir . 
Camilla let her pen drop , and rising said , `` Lionel ! 
cried Camilla , clasping her hands , with a look of more remonstrance than any words she durst utter . 
said he , pretending not to observe her emotion . 
Are you in love , Camilla ? '' 
`` Now you relieve me , '' said she , with a sort of fearful smile , `` for I am sure you can not be serious . 
This was not an observation to exhilarate her spirits . 
She sighed : but Lionel , concluding himself the cause , begged her not to be low-spirited , but to write the letter at once . 
She assured him she could never again consent to interfere in his unreasonable requests . 
`` Rather say , not with it , '' cried she ; `` for you keep nothing ! '' 
Again she absolutely refused , pleading her promise to her uncle , and declaring she would keep her word . 
cried Camilla interrupting him , `` what is it you talk of ? 
why what a baby thou art , my dear Camilla ! '' 
`` If you are entering into any engagement , '' said she , still more gravely , `` that my father must not know , and that my mother would so bitterly condemn , -- why am I to be trusted with it ? '' 
cried Camilla , shrinking , `` you make me tremble ! 
cried she emphatically ; `` never let it reach the knowledge of either ! 
`` My dear Lionel , '' cried she , affectionately , `` I would do any thing that is not absolutely improper to serve you ; but my uncle has now nothing more to spare ; he has told me so himself ; and with what courage , then , in this dark , mysterious , and , I fear , worse than mysterious business , can I apply to him ? '' 
And then , just coax him over a little , with , how you long to be back , and how you hate Tunbridge , and how you adore Cleves , and how tired you are for want of his bright conversation , -- and you may command half his fortune , -- My dear Camilla , you do n't know from what destruction you will rescue me ! 
Camilla sighed , but let him put the pen into her hand , whence , however , the very next moment 's reflection was urging her to cast it down , when he caught her in his arms in a transport of joy , called her his protectress from dishonour and despair , and said he would run to the Rooms while she wrote , just to take the opportunity of seeing them , and to un-order the carriage , that she might have no interruption to her composition , which he would come back to claim before the party returned , as he must set off for Cleves , and gallop all night , to procure the money , which the loss of a single day would render useless . 
Horrour at such perpetual and increasing ill conduct , grief at the compulsive failure of meeting Edgar , and perplexity how to extricate herself from her half given , but wholly seized upon engagement to write , took for a while nearly equally shares in tormenting Camilla . 
But all presently concentred in one domineering sentiment of sharp repentance for what she had apparently undertaken . 
To claim two hundred pounds of her uncle , in her own name , was out of all question . 
She could not , even a moment , dwell upon such a project ; but how represent what she herself so little understood as the necessity of Lionel ? 
She was incapable of any species of fraud , she detested even the most distant disguise . 
Simple supplication seemed , therefore , her only method ; but so difficult was even this , in an affair so dark and unconscionable , that she began twenty letters without proceeding in any one of them beyond two lines . 
Thus far , however , her task was light to what it appeared to her upon a little further deliberation . 
That her brother had formed some unworthy engagement or attachment , he had not , indeed , avowed clearly , but he had by no means denied , and she had even omitted , in her surprise and consternation , exacting his promise that it should immediately be concluded . 
What , then , might she be doing by endeavouring to procure this money ? 
Aiding perhaps vice and immorality , and assisting her misguided , if not guilty brother , to persevere in the most dangerous errors , if not crimes ? 
She shuddered , she pushed away her paper , she rose from the table , she determined not to write another word . 
Yet , to permit parents she justly revered to suffer any evil she had the smallest chance to spare them , was dreadful to her ; and what evil could be inflicted upon them , so deeply , so lastingly severe , as the conviction of any serious vices in any of their children ? 
This , for one minute , brought her again to the table ; but the next , her better judgment pointed out the shallowness and fallacy of such reasoning . 
To save them present pain at the risk of future anguish , to consult the feelings of her brother , in preference to his morality , would be forgetting every lesson of her life , which , from its earliest dawn , had imbibed a love of virtue , that made her consider whatever was offensive to it as equally disgusting and unhappy . 
She knew well he would be deaf to remonstrance , ridicule all argument , and laugh off whatever she could urge by persuasion . 
She feared he would be quite outrageous to find his expectations thus thwarted ; and the lateness of the hour when he would hear it , and the weight he annexed to obtaining the money expeditiously , redoubled at once her regret for her momentary compliance , and her pity for what he would undergo through its failure . 
After considering in a thousand ways how to soften to him her recantation , she found herself so entirely without courage to encounter his opposition , that she resolved to write him a short letter , and then retire to her room , to avoid an interview . 
In this , she besought him to forgive her errour in not sooner being sensible of her duty , which had taught her , upon her first reflexion , the impossibility of demanding two hundred pounds for herself , who wanted nothing , and the impracticability of demanding it for him , in so unintelligible a manner . 
Thus far only she had proceeded , from the length of time consumed in regret and rumination , when a violent ringing at the door , without the sound of any carriage , made her start up , and fly to her chamber ; leaving her unfinished letter , with the beginnings of her several essays to address Sir Hugh , upon the table , to shew her various efforts , and to explain that they were relinquished . 
Thus , self-confined and almost in an agony , Camilla remained for a quarter of an hour , without any species of interruption , and in the greatest amazement that Lionel forbore pursuing her , either with letter or message . 
Another violent ringing at the bell , but still without any carriage , then excited her attention , and presently the voice and steps of Lionel resounded upon the stairs , whence her name was with violence vociferated . 
She did not move ; and in another minute , he was rapping at her chamber door , demanding admittance , or that she would instantly descend . 
Alarmed for her open letter and papers , she inquired who was in the parlour . 
Affrighted , she followed him ; but not one of her papers remained . 
The table was cleared , and nothing was to be seen but a large packet , addressed to her in a hand she did not know . 
She rang to inquire who had been in the house before her brother . 
Camilla now hung about her brother in the greatest tribulation , but refused to take the pen he would have put into her hands , and , at last , not without tears , said : `` Forgive me , Lionel ! 
He was utterly , he said , lost ; and his family would be utterly disgraced , for ruin must be the lot of his father , or exile or imprisonment must be his own , if she persisted in such unkind and unnatural conduct . 
Terrour now befest her of all speech or motion , till the letter , which Lionel had been beating about in his agitation , without knowing or caring what he was doing , burst open , and some written papers fell to the floor , which she recognised for her own . 
Much amazed , she seized the cover , which had only been fastened by a wafer that was still wet , and saw a letter within it to herself , which she hastily read , while a paper that was enclosed dropt down , and was caught by Lionel . 
Forgive , fairest Camilla , the work of the Destinies . 
While this , with speechless emotion , was perused by Camilla , Lionel , with unbounded joy , began jumping , skipping , leaping over every chair , and capering round and round the room in an ecstasy . 
`` My dearest Lionel , '' cried she , when a little recovered , `` why such joy ? 
Lionel heard her not ; his rapture was too buoyant for attention , and he whisked every thing out of its place , from frantic merriment , till he put the apartment into so much disorder , that it was scarce practicable to stir a step in it ; now and then interrupting himself to make her low bows , scraping his feet all over the room , and obsequiously saying : `` My sister Clarendel ! 
Nothing could be less pleasant to Camilla than raillery which pointed out , that , even by the unreflecting Lionel , this action could be ascribed to but one motive . 
Camilla was too much confounded either to laugh or explain , and hastily wishing them good-night , retired to her chamber . 
Here , in the extremest perturbation , she saw the full extent of her difficulties , without perceiving any means of extrication . 
She had no hope of recovering the draft from Lionel , whom she had every reason to conclude already journeying from Tunbridge . 
What could she say the next day to Sir Sedley ? 
And how could she undeceive him , while retaining so improper a mark of his dependence upon her favour ? 
The displeasure she felt that he should venture to suppose she would owe to him such a debt , rendered but still more palpable the species of expectation it might authorise . 
To destroy this illusion occupied all her attention , except what was imperiously seized upon by regret of missing Edgar , with whom to consult was more than ever her wish . 
In this disturbed state , when she saw Mrs. Arlbery the next morning , her whole care was to avoid being questioned : and that lady , who quickly perceived her fears by her avoidance , took the first opportunity to say to her , with a laugh , `` I see I must make no inquiries into the gambols of your brother last night : but I may put together , perhaps , certain circumstances that may give me a little light to the business : and if , as I conjecture , Clarendel spoke out to him , his wildest rioting is more rational than his sister 's gravity . '' 
Camilla protested they had not conversed together at all . 
Camilla ventured not any reply ; and soon after retreated . 
Camilla seriously assured her , that she was in her chamber when he arrived , and had not seen him . 
Camilla again was silent ; but her tingling cheeks proclaimed it was not for want of something to say . 
The vexation of Camilla would have prompted an immediate confession of the whole mortifying transaction , had she not been endued with a sense of honour , where the interests of others was concerned , that repressed her natural precipitance , and was more powerful even than her imprudence . 
She waited the greatest part of the morning in some little faint hope of seeing Lionel : but he came not , and she spent the rest of it with Mrs. Berlinton . 
Camilla , whose so speedy re-appearance was the last fight he expected , was too far advanced to retreat ; and the resentment that tinged her whole complexion shewed she had heard what he said , and had heard it with an application the most offensive . 
An immediate sensibility to his own impertinence now succeeded in its vain display ; he looked not merely concerned , but contrite ; and , in a voice softened nearly to timidity , attempted a general conversation , but kept his eyes , with an anxious expression , almost continually fixed upon her 's . 
Anger with Camilla was a quick , but short-lived sensation ; and this sudden change in the Baronet from conceit to respect , produced a change equally sudden in herself from disdain to inquietude . 
Though mortified in the first moment by his vanity , it was less seriously painful to her than any belief that under it was couched a disposition towards a really steady regard . 
No opportunity , however , arose to mention the return of the draft ; Mrs. Arlbery saw displeasure in her air , and not doubting she had heard what had dropt from Sir Sedley , thought the moment unfavorable for a tte--tte , and resolutely kept her place , till Camilla herself , weary of useless waiting , left the room . 
Following her then to her chamber , `` My dear Miss Tyrold , '' she cried , `` do not let your extreme youth stand in the way of all your future life . 
cried she blushing . 
Camilla again denied the charge , and strove to prevail with her to undeceive the Baronet from any false expectations . 
But she protested she would not be accessary to so much after-repentance ; and left her . 
The business now wore a very serious aspect to Camilla . 
Camilla , on her arrival , with palpitating pleasure , looked round for Edgar . 
She did not , however , see him . 
She was accosted directly by the Major ; who , as usual , never left her , and whose assiduity to seek her favour seemed increased . 
She next joined Mrs. Berlinton ; but still she saw nothing of Edgar . 
Her eyes incessantly looked towards the door , but the object they sought never met them . 
Camilla tried to look at him and to speak to him with her customary civility and chearfulness , and nearly succeeded ; while in him she observed only an expressive attention , without any marks of presumption . 
Camilla was in the utmost amaze and deepest vexation . 
was his wrath so great at her own failure the preceding night , that he purposely avoided her ? 
what , also , could she do with Sir Sedley ? 
how meet him the next morning without the draft she had now promised ? '' 
In this state of extreme chagrin , when she retired to her chamber , she found the following letter upon her table : Can you think of such a trifle ? 
Ah , rather , enchanting Camilla ! 
Camilla now was touched , penetrated , and distressed beyond what she had been in any former time . 
She looked upon this letter as a positive intimation of the most serious designs ; and all his good qualities , as painted by Mrs. Arlbery , with the very singular obligation she owed to him , rose up formidably to support the arguments and remonstrances of that lady ; though every feeling of her heart , every sentiment of her mind , and every wish of her soul , opposed their smallest weight . 
The next morning , as Camilla had accompanied Mrs. Berlinton , in earnest discourse , from her chamber to the hall , she heard the postman say Miss Tyrold as he gave in a letter . 
She seized it , saw the hand-writing of Lionel , and ran eagerly into the parlour , which was empty , to read it , in some hopes it would at least contain an acknowledgment of the draft , that might be shewn to Sir Sedley , and relieve her from the pain of continuing the principal in such an affair . 
Camilla remained stupified . 
`` Left it , '' she continued , `` without the poor civility of a call , to ask if you had any letters or messages for Hampshire . '' 
Camilla coloured high ; she felt to her heart this evident coldness , and she knew it to be still more marked than Mrs. Arlbery could divine ; for he was aware she wished particularly to speak with him ; and though she had failed in her appointment , he had not inquired why . 
The disturbed mind of Camilla needed not this speech ; her debt to Sir Sedley , cast wholly upon herself by the thoughtless Lionel ; her inability to pay it , the impressive lines the Baronet had addressed to her , and the cruel and pointed indifference of Edgar , all forcibly united to make her wish , at this moment , her heart at her own disposal . 
In a few minutes , the voice of Sir Sedley , gaily singing , caught her ear . 
She started up ; Mrs. Arlbery would have detained her , but she could not endure to encounter him , and without returning his salutation , or listening to his address , crossed him in the hall , and flew up stairs . 
`` Do not go , '' cried he , gently detaining her ; `` incomparable Camilla ! 
Camilla conceived this as alluding to her recent encouragement , and stood trembling with expectation it would be followed by a claim upon her justice . 
`` Let me go , '' cried she , eager to stop him ; `` I beseech you , Sir Sedley ! '' 
`` All beauteous Camilla ! '' 
said he , retreating yet still so as to intercept her passage ; `` I am bound to submit ; but when may I see you again ? '' 
`` At any time , '' replied she hastily ; `` only let me pass now ! '' 
adorable Camilla ! 
cried she , panting with shame and alarm ; `` I do not mean at any time ! 
and opened the door for her to pass . 
The fear , however , was palpably not of diffidence with respect to Camilla , but of indecision with regard to himself . 
Camilla , almost sinking with shame now hung back , from a dread of leaving him in this dangerous delusion . 
She sat down , and in a faultering voice , said : `` Sir Sedley ! 
cried he , gallantly casting himself at her feet ; `` yes ! 
-- from -- '' A loud knock at the street door , and a ringing at the same time at the bell , made him rise , meaning to shut again the door of the parlour , but he was prevented , by the entrance of a man into the hall , calling out , in a voice that reached to every part of the house , `` An express for Miss Camilla Tyrold . '' 
Camilla started up , concluding it some strange intelligence concerning Edgar . 
But a letter was put into her hand , and she saw it was the writing of Lavinia . 
She was then , with her father , going thither from Etherington , where the restored health of her uncle had , for a week past , enabled them to reside , and she was ordered to send off an express to Tunbridge , to beg Camilla would prepare immediately for the post-chaise of Sir Hugh , which would be sent for her , with the Cleves housekeeper , and reach Mount Pleasant within a few hours after this notice . 
A hundred questions assailed Camilla when she had run over this letter , the noise of the express having brought Mrs. Arlbery and the Dennels into the parlour . 
She went , laughing , out of the chamber , and Camilla , who had seized a pen , distressfully flung it from her . 
What indeed could she say ? 
he had made no direct declaration ; she could give , therefore , no direct repulse ; and though , through her brother 's cruel want of all consideration , she was so deeply in his debt , she durst no longer promise its discharge ; for the strange departure of Edgar robbed her of all courage to make to him her meditated application . 
If , which still seemed very possible , from his manner and behaviour , he should check his partiality , and make the whole of what had passed end in mere public-place gallantry , she must always have the mortification to know he had considered her as ready to accept him : If , on the contrary , encouraging what he felt for her , from the belief she returned his best opinion , he should seriously demand her hand -- how could she justify the apparent attention she once paid him ? 
She was broken in upon by Mrs. Mittin , who entered full of lamentation at the intelligence she had just heard from Miss Dennel of her sudden departure ; which she ended with , `` But as you are going in such haste , my dear , you must have fifty things to do , so pray now , let me help you , Come , what shall I pack up for you ? 
Camilla , incapable of doing any business for herself , accepted the offer . 
Camilla was surprised ; but her mind was filled with other matters ; and the gown was put apart . 
why , my dear Miss Tyrold , that 's a thing you want very bad indeed ; why here 's one you can never wear again ; it wants more darning than its worth . '' 
Camilla said she should have very good time to mend it at home . 
At any other time , Camilla would either have resisted these seizures , or have been diverted by the pretence that they were made only for her own benefit ; but she was now glad at any rate to get rid of the care of the package . 
These were questions that indeed roused Camilla from her reverie ; she had not once thought of what she owed to the milliner , to her shoemaker , nor to her haberdasher ; from all of whom she had now , through the hands of Mrs. Mittin , had various articles . 
Camilla took out her purse , in which , from her debt to Sir Sedley , and perpetually current expences , there now remained but fifteen shillings of her borrowed five guineas ; though latterly , she had wholly denied herself whatever did not seem an expence unavoidable . 
What to do she now knew not ; for though all she had ordered had been trifling , she was sure it must amount to four or five guineas . 
She had repeatedly refused to borrow any thing more of Mrs. Arlbery , always hoping every call for money would be the last ; but she was too inexperienced to know , That in gay circles , and public places , the demands for wealth are endless and countless ; and that oeconomy itself , which is always local , is there lavish and extravagant , compared with its character , in private scenes and retired life . 
Camilla was fain to confess she had nothing more at Tunbridge . 
`` Well , do n't be uneasy , my dear , '' cried she , `` and I 'll go to 'em all , and be caution for you , till you get the money . '' 
Camilla thanked her very sincerely , and again resumed her first opinion of her real good nature , and kindness of heart . 
She took her direction in London , whither she was soon to return , and promised , in a short time , to transmit the money for her to distribute , as every one of the shopkeepers went to the metropolis in the winter . 
Delighted both with the praise and the commission , Mrs. Mittin took leave ; and Camilla determined to employ her next quarter 's allowance in paying these debts , and frankly to beg from her uncle the five guineas that were due to Mrs. Arlbery . 
Camilla , in making her acknowledgements for the kindness she had received , intermingled a petition , that at least , she would not augment , if she refused to clear the mistake of Sir Sedley . 
`` I believe he may safely , '' she answered , `` be left to himself ; though it is plain that , at this moment , he is in a difficulty as great as your own ; for marriage he still resists , though he finds you resistless . 
Camilla disclaimed taking any measures with respect to either ; but Mrs. Arlbery insisted the field would be won by Sir Sedley , `` who is already , '' she cried , `` persuaded you have for some time encouraged him , and that now you are fully propitious -- '' Camilla hastily interrupted her : `` O , Mrs. Arlbery ! '' 
she cried , `` I can not endure this ! 
She then embraced her ; took leave of the Dennels , and with the housekeeper of Sir Hugh set out from Tunbridge for Cleves . 
Camilla was received with the most tender joy by all her family , again reassembled at Cleves to welcome the return of young Lynmere , who was expected every hour . 
The countenance of Camilla soon betrayed , to his inquiring eyes , the inefficacy of the Tunbridge journey . 
But he forbore all question ; and left to time or her choice to unravel , if new incidents kept alive her inquietude , or , if no incident at all had been equally prejudicial to her repose . 
Two days after , while Camilla , still astonished by no news , nor sight of Edgar , was sitting with her sisters , and recounting to them her late adventures , and present difficulties , with Sir Sedley Clarendel , Jacob brought her , in its own superb bird-cage , the learned little bullfinch ; telling her , it had been delivered to him without any message , by a man who said she had left it , by mistake , at Tunbridge , whence he had had orders to follow her with it to Cleves park . 
She was much provoked thus to receive it . 
Camilla was thunderstruck ; `` And have you been so cruel , '' she cried , `` seeing the matter in such a light , to place me in such a predicament ? '' 
Camilla gasped for breath , and was some time before she could ask whence he drew such a conclusion . 
Camilla , in the most solemn manner , protested herself disengaged in thought , word , and deed ; and declared her fixed intention so to continue . 
But he only laughed at her declarations , calling them maidenly fibs ; and , assuring her , the young baronet was so much in earnest , she might as well be sincere as not . 
cried she , in an agony ; `` I shall quite lose my senses if you speak in this manner ! '' 
Camilla was in an agitation that made him regard her , for a moment , with a serious surprise ; but his natural levity soon resumed its post , and , laughing at himself for being nearly , he said , taken in , by her childish freaks , he protested he would bite no more : `` For , after all , you must not think to make a fool of me , my dear . 
He then bid her good-morrow , by the name of Lady Clarendel ; and said , he would go and see if little Greek and Latin were as preposterous a prude about young Lynmere . 
Camilla remained almost petrisied with amazement at her own situation ; and only was deterred from immediately opening her whole heart and affairs to her father , with the confidence to which his indulgence entitled him , by the impossibility of explaining her full distress without betraying her brother . 
The next morning , Camilla , eager to try once more her influence with her brother , accompanied him into the park , and renewed her remonstrances , but with no better success ; and while they were passing by a private gate , that opened to the high road , they saw Sir Sedley Clarendel driving by in his phaeton . 
Camilla , in dismay unspeakable at this conduct , and the idea of such a meeting , had run forward instantly to hide herself in the summer-house , to avoid re-passing the gate in her way to the mansion ; but her scheme was more precipitate than wife ; Lionel caught a glimpse of her gown as she went into the little building , and shouted aloud : `` Look ! 
there 's Camilla making believe to run away from you ! '' 
Camilla , utterly confounded , knew not where to cast her eyes , where to hide her face ; and her quick-changing colour , and short-heaved breath , manifested an excess of confusion , that touched , flattered , and penetrated the baronet so deeply and so suddenly , as to put him off from all guard of consequences , and all recollection of matrimonial distaste : `` Beautiful , resistless Camilla ! '' 
Camilla , wholly overcome , by sorrow , gratitude , repentance , and shame , sunk upon a chair , and shed a torrent of tears that she even sought not to restrain . 
The shock of refusing one , to whose error in believing himself acceptable she had largely contributed , or the horror of yielding to him her hand , while her heart was in the possession of another , made her almost wish , at this moment , he should divine her distress , that his own pride might conclude it . 
He imagined her emotion had its source in causes the softest and most flattering . 
Every personal obstacle sunk before this idea , and with a seriousness in his manner he had not yet used : `` This evening , lovely Camilla , '' he cried , `` let me beg , for this evening , the audience accorded me upon that which I lost at Tunbridge . '' 
He was then going ; but Camilla , hastily rising , cried , `` Sir Sedley , I beseech -- '' when Lionel capering into the little apartment , danced round it in mad ecstasy , chanting `` Lady Clarendel , Lady Clarendel , my dear Lady Clarendel ! '' 
Camilla now was not confused alone . 
Sir Sedley himself could gladly have pushed him out of the building ; but neither the looks of surprise and provocation of the baronet , nor the prayers nor reprimands of Camilla , could tame his wild transport . 
But Camilla suffered too severely to join in the mirth ; she blushed for her brother , she blushed for herself , she hung her head in speechless shame , and covered her eyes with her hand . 
Camilla looked upon his departing in this manner as her sentence to misery , and was pursuing him , to decline the visit ; but Lionel , seizing her two hands , swung her round the room , in desiance of her even angry expostulations and sufferings , which he neither credited nor conceived , and then skipt after the baronet himself , who was already out of the park . 
She became now nearly frantic . 
She thought herself irretrievably in the power of Sir Sedley , and by means so forced and indelicate , that she was scarcely more afflicted at the event , than shocked by its circumstances ; and though incapable to really harbour rancour against a brother she sincerely loved , she yet believed at this moment she never should forgive , nor willingly see him more . 
In this state she was found by Lavinia . 
Lionel had only laughed at the repugnance of Camilla , which he regarded as something between childishness and affectation , and begged Lavinia to be wiser than to heed to it : `` Brother Sedley has desired me , however , '' he added , `` not to speak of the matter to Numps nor my father , till he has had a little more conversation with his charmer ; and he intends to call to-night as if only upon a visit to me . '' 
When Camilla learnt , at length , this painful end of her embassy , she gave herself up so completely to despair , that Lavinia , affrighted , ran to the house for Eugenia , whose extreme youth was no impediment , in the minds of her liberal sisters , to their belief nor reverence of her superior wisdom . 
Write to him , my dear Camilla ; tell him you grieve to afflict , yet disdain to deceive him ; assure him of your perfect esteem and eternal gratitude ; but confess , at once , your heart refuses to return his tenderness . 
To Lavinia this advice appeared insallible ; but Camilla , though she felt an entanglement which fettered herself , thought it by no means sufficiently direct or clear to authorise a rejection of Sir Sedley ; since , strangely as she seemed in his power , circumstances had placed her there , and not his own solicitation . 
Yet to prevent a visit of which her knowledge seemed consent , and which her consent must be most seriously to authorise , she deemed as indispensable to her character , as to her fears . 
She hesitated , therefore , not a moment in preferring writing to a meeting ; and after various conversations , and various essays , the following billet was dispatched to Clarendel Place , through the means of Molly Mill , and by her friend Tommy Hodd . 
During the dinner , they all appeared absent and dejected ; but Sir Hugh attributed it to the non-arrival of Clermont , in watching for whom his own time was completely occupied , by examining two weather-cocks , and walking from one to the other , to see if they agreed , or how they changed ; Indiana was wholly engrossed in consultations with Miss Margland , upon the most becoming dress for a bride 's maid ; and Mr. Tyrold , having observed that his three girls had spent the morning together , concluded Camilla had divulged to them her unhappy perplexity , and felt soothed himself in considering she had soothers so affectionate and faithful . 
Early in the evening Tommy Hodd arrived , and Molly Mill brought Camilla the following answer of Sir Sedley . 
Camilla turned cold . 
She shrunk from a remonstrance she conceived she had merited , and regarded herself to be henceforth either culpable or unhappy . 
Unacquainted with the feminine indulgence which the world , by long prescription , grants to coquetry , its name was scarcely known to her ; and she saw in its own native egotism the ungenerous desire to please , where she herself was indifferent , and anticipated from Sir Sedley reproach , if not contempt . 
No sophistications of custom had warped the first innocence of her innate sense of right , and to trifle with the feelings of another for any gratification of her own , made success bring a blush to her integrity , not exultation to her vanity . 
cried Camilla , turning paler and paler , and sitting down lest she should fall . 
They both wept and embraced her , and Eugenia said , if , indeed , she could not conquer her aversion , she saw no way to elude the baronet , but by openly confessing her repugnance , in the conversation he demanded . 
Camilla saw not less strongly the necessity of being both prompt and explicit ; but how receive Sir Sedley at Cleves ? 
At length , they decided , that the conference should take place at the Grove ; and to prevent the threatened visit of the next day , Camilla wrote the following answer : I should be grieved , indeed , to return my obligations to Sir Sedley Clarendel by meriting his serious reproach ; yet I can not have the honour of seeing him at Cleves , since my brother is immediately quitting it for Oxford . 
Lionel was so enraged at the non-appearance of the young baronet at night , that Camilla was compelled to confess she had promised to see him , and to give him his answer at Mrs. Arlbery 's . 
The increasing depression of Camilla , and the melancholy of her sympathising sisters , though still attributed to the adverse wind by the compass-watching baronet , escaped not the notice of Mr. Tyrold ; who , alarmed for the peace of his daughter , determined to watch for the first quiet opportunity of investigating her actual situation . 
He contrived to whisper to Camilla , that he hoped she would be a good girl at last , and not play the fool ; but , finding she only sighed , he laughed at her calamitous state , in becoming mistress of fifteen thousand per annum , only by the small trouble of running over a short ceremony ; and , assuring her he would assist her off with part of the charge , if it were too heavy for her , bid her inform him in time of the propitious day . 
Camilla , shortly after , saw from her window , gallopping full speed across the park to the house , Major Cerwood . 
She suspected her tormenting brother to have been again at work ; nor was she mistaken . 
High wrought , therefore , for what he deemed good sport , he confirmed what he had asserted at the ball at Northwick , of the expectations of Camilla from Sir Hugh , by relating the public fact , of her having been announced , to the family and neighbourhood , for his uncle 's heiress , at ten years of age ; and only sinking , in his account , the revocation made so soon after in favour of Eugenia . 
The Major , upon alighting , inquired for Sir Hugh , deeming Mr. Tyrold of little consequence , since it was not from him Camilla was to inherit her fortune . 
He then made a declaration , in form , of the most ardent passion for Camilla ; mentioned his family , which was an honourable one ; talked of his expectations with confidence , though vaguely ; and desired to leave the disposition of the settlement wholly to the baronet ; who , he hoped , would not refuse to see his elder brother , a gentleman of fortune in Lincolnshire , who would have the honour to wait upon him , at any time he would be so good as to appoint , upon this momentous affair . 
Not a doubt of his success occurred to the baronet ; who saw , in one blow , the darling scheme of his old age demolished , in the deprivation of Camilla . 
`` The other two chaps , '' continued he , `` that came about us not long ago , wanted to make their court to Eugenia and Indiana ; as well as another that came to the house when I was ill , in the same coat as yourself , by what I can gather from the description ; but never a one has come to Camilla yet , except yourself , because my brother can spare her but a trifle , having another young girl to provide for , besides Lionel ; which is the most expensive of them all , poor boy ! 
He then rang the bell , and told Jacob to call Camilla . 
When Camilla appeared , the disturbance of Sir Hugh still augmented ; and he could hardly articulate , `` My dear , in the case you are willing to leave your family , here 's a gentleman come to make his addresses to you ; which I think it right you should know , though how I shall struggle through it , if I lose you , is more than my poor weak head can tell ; for what shall I do without my dear little girl , that I thought to make the best comfort of my old age ? 
cried she , `` your Camilla can never return half the comfort she receives from you ! 
Enchanted by so unexpected a dismission , his favourite scheme of life seemed accorded to him , and he pressed Camilla to his bosom , in a transport of joy . 
Camilla accompanied the party in the most mournful silence . 
The assuming letter she had received ; the interview she should have to sustain ; and her apparent dependance upon Sir Sedley , sinking her into complete despondence . 
His disappointment in the failure of Camilla at the rooms had been as bitter , as his expectations from the promised conference had been animated . 
In this suspensive state of mind , to cast himself upon his sagacious friend seemed a relief the most desirable : but , while considering whether first to claim from Camilla her promised communication , the voice of Lionel issuing from the room of Major Cerwood , struck his ears . 
He darted forth , and accompanied the youth to his horse , who was setting out upon some expedition , in the dark ; and then received information , under the pretence of great secrecy , that Major Cerwood was going immediately to ask leave of absence , and proceed straight to Hampshire , with his final proposals of marriage with Camilla . 
He now concluded this was the subject upon which she had meant to consult with him ; but delicacy , pride , and hope all combated his interference . 
He determined even to avoid her , till the answer should be given . 
He felt himself shiver at sight of Camilla , but dismounted , gave his horse to his groom , and joined the party . 
Eugenia recovering , now fearlessly looked up ; but Camilla , struck and affected , shook in every limb , and was forced to hold by Lavinia . 
He spoke to Sir Hugh , and compelled himself to speak separately to every one else ; but , when he addressed Camilla , to whom he said something not very distinctly , about Tunbridge , she curtsied to him slightly , and turned away , without making any answer . 
Her mind , taking suddenly a quick retrospection of all that had passed between them , presented him to her view as uncertain and delusive ; and , casting upon him , internally , the whole odium of her present distress , and her feelings were so indignant , that , in her present desperate state , she deemed it beneath her to disguise them , either from himself or the world . 
Camilla , still leaning upon Lavinia , mounted a little bank , which she knew Sir Hugh could not ascend , that she might walk on where Edgar could not join her ; involuntarily ejaculating , `` Lavinia ! 
Nothing , however , could withstand the fangs of the bull-dog ; they soon severed it , and , again , he made at the spaniel ; but Edgar rushed between them , with no other weapons than the broken fragments of the stick : and , while the baronet and Eugenia screamed out to old Rover to return to them , and Lavinia , with more readiness of common sense , exerted the fullest powers of which her gentle voice was capable , to conjure the wicked boy to call off his dog , Camilla , who was the last to look round at this scene , only turned about as the incensed and disappointed bull-dog , missing his object , aimed at Edgar himself . 
Roused at once from her sullen calm to the most agonising sensibility , every thing and every body , herself most of all , were forgotten in the sight of his danger ; and , with a piercing shriek , she darted down the bank , and arrived at the tremendous spot , at the same instant that the more useful exhortations of Lavinia , had induced the boy to withdraw the fierce animal ; who , with all his might , and all his fury , obeyed the weak whistle of a little urchin he had been bred to love and respect , for bringing him his daily food . 
Camilla perceived not if the danger were impending , or over ; gasping , pale , and agitated , she caught Mandlebert by the arm , and , in broken accents , half pronounced , `` O Edgar ! 
The revulsion that had operated in her mind took now its ample turn in that of Mandlebert ; he could hardly trust his senses , hardly believe he existed ; yet he felt the pressure of her hand upon his arm , and saw in her countenance terror the most undisguised , and tenderness that went straight to his soul . 
`` Is it Camilla , '' he cried , `` who thus speaks to me ? 
-- Is not my safety or my destruction alike indifferent to Camilla ? '' 
cried she , scarce conscious she answered at all , till called to recollection by his own changed looks ; changed from incredulity and amazement to animation that lightened up every feature , to eyes that shot fire . 
Abashed , astonished , ashamed , she precipitately drew away her hand , and sought quietly to retire . 
He followed her , trembling and uncertain , his joy fading into alarm at her retreat , his hope transforming into apprehension at her resumed coldness of demeanor . 
repeated she , looking back , surprised , `` can you think the Major has any influence with me ? '' 
-- Enchanted , affrighted , bewildered , yet silent , she hurried on ; Edgar could not forget himself more than a moment ; he forbore , therefore , to follow , and , though with a self-denial next to torture , returned to Sir Hugh , to whom his arm was doubly necessary , from the scene he had just witnessed , and the loss of his stick . 
But here , first , my dear Camilla 's refused that young Captain , who would have carried her the Lord knows where , immediately , as I make no doubt ; and next , I 've saved the life of my poor old Rover , by the means of your good-nature . '' 
`` Miss Camilla , then , has refused him ? '' 
He wished to relate this transaction to Dr. Marchmont , yet dreaded any retarding advice ; he languished to make Camilla herself the sole mistress of his destiny : the interest she had shewn for his safety seemed to admit but one interpretation ; and , finally , he resolved to stay at Cleves till he could meet with her alone . 
Camilla had not uttered a word after the adventure of the bull-dog . 
The smallest idea that she could excite the least emotion in Edgar , brought a secret rapture to her heart , that , at any former period , would alone have sufficed to render her happy : but , at this instant of entanglement with another , she revolted from the indulgence of such pleasure ; and instead of dwelling , as she would have done before , on the look , the accent , the manner , that were susceptible , by any construction , of partiality , she checked every idea that did not represent Edgar as unstable and inconsistent ; and sought , with all her power , to regard him as Mrs. Arlbery had painted him , and to believe him , except in a few casual moments of caprice , insensible and hard of heart . 
Lavinia and Eugenia addressed him as usual ; but Camilla could not speak , could not return his salutation , could not look at him . 
She sat hastily down in her accustomed place by her uncle , and even the presence of her father scarcely restrained her tears , as she contrasted the hopeless uncertainties of Edgar , with the perilous pursuit of Sir Sedley . 
Edgar , for the first time , saw her avoidance without suspecting that it flowed from repugnance . 
The interest she had shewn for his safety was still bounding in his breast , and as , from time to time , he stole a glance at her , and observed her emotion , his heart whispered him the softest hopes , that soon the most perfect confidence would make every feeling reciprocal . 
But these hopes were not long without alloy ; he soon discerned something that far exceeded what could give him pleasure in her perturbation ; he read in it not merely hurry and alarm , but suffering and distress . 
He now ventured to look at her no more ; his confidence gave place to pity ; he saw she was unhappy , and breathed no present wish but to relieve and console her . 
When the dessert was served , she was preparing to retire ; but she caught the eye of her father , and saw she should not long be alone ; she re-seated herself , therefore , in haste , to postpone , at least , his scrutiny . 
To this , also , Camilla could make no objection , and they set out . 
She took an arm of each sister , and indulged the heaviness of her heart in not uttering a word . 
He returned to read it in his own room ; Lavinia and Eugenia accompanied him to hear its contents , and Camilla , for the first time , seemed the least affectionate of his daughters ; she durst not encounter him but in the mixt company of all the house ; she told Lavinia to make haste back with the news , and took the arm of Indiana . 
The compulsion of uninteresting discourse soon became intolerable ; and no longer chained to the party by the awe of her father , she presently left Indiana to Miss Margland , and perceiving that Edgar was conversing with Dr. Orkborne , said she would wait for her sisters ; and , turning a little aside , sat down upon a bench under a large oak . 
The tears of Camilla now streamed afresh . 
Words so kind from Edgar , the cold , the hard-hearted Edgar , surprised and overset her ; yet she endeavoured to hide her face , and made an effort to pass him . 
she repeated , and involuntarily turning to him , shewed a countenance so disconsolate , that he lost his self-control , and taking her reluctant hand , said : `` O Camilla ! 
Almost transfixed with astonishment , she looked at him for a moment in a speechless wonder ; but the interval of doubt was short ; the character of Edgar , for unalienable steadiness , unalterable honour , was fixed in her mind , like `` truths from holy writ , '' and she knew , with certainty incontrovertible , that his fate was at her disposal , from the instant he acknowledged openly her power over his feelings . 
Every opposite sensation , that with violence the most ungovernable could encounter but to combat , now met in her bosom , elevating her to rapture , harrowing her with terror , menacing even her understanding . 
The most exquisite wish of her heart seemed accorded at a period so nearly too late for its acceptance , that her faculties , bewildered , confused , deranged , lost the capacity of clearly conceiving if still she were a free agent or not . 
He saw her excess of disorder with alarm ; he sought to draw her again to her seat ; but she put her hand upon her forehead , and leant it against the bark of the tree . 
cried she , again distressfully , almost incredulously , looking at him , while her hands were uplifted with amazement : `` I thought you above any suffering ! 
-- '' `` Ah , Camilla ! 
what is it can prompt you to goad thus a heart which almost from its first beating -- '' He stopt , desirous to check himself ; while penetrated by his softness , and ashamed of what , in the bitterness of her spirit , she had pronounced , she again melted into tears , and sunk down upon the bench ; yet holding out to him one hand , while with the other she covered her face : `` Forgive me , '' she cried , `` I intreat -- for I scarce know what I say . '' 
Such a speech , and so accompanied , might have demolished the stoicism of an older philosopher than Edgar ; he fervently kissed her proferred hand , exclaiming : `` Forgive you ! 
can Camilla use such a word ? 
cried she , hastily drawing away her hand , `` go now , I beseech you ! '' 
O Camilla ! 
End it , generous Camilla ! 
Every other emotion , now , in the vanquished Camilla , every retrospective fear , every actual regret , yielded to the conquering charm of grateful tenderness ; and restoring the hand she had withdrawn : `` O Edgar , '' she cried , `` how little can I merit such a gift ! 
The agitation of Edgar was , at first , too mighty and too delicious for speech ; but his eyes , now cast up to heaven , now fixed upon her own , spoke the most ardent , yet purest felicity ; while her hand , now held to his heart , now pressed to his lips , strove vainly to recover its liberty . 
that gives my life to happiness -- my existence to Camilla ! '' 
The pause , however , that on his side was ecstatic thankfulness , soon became mixt , on that of Camilla , with confusion and remorse : Sir Sedley returned to her memory , and with him every reflection , and every apprehension , that most cruelly could sully each trembling , though nearly gratified hope . 
The cloud that so soon dimmed the transient radiance of her countenance , was instantly perceived by Edgar ; but as he was beginning the most anxious inquiries , the two sisters approached , and Camilla , whose hand he then relinquished , rushed forward , and throwing her arms around their necks , wept upon their bosoms . 
Edgar looked tenderly at Camilla , but , perceiving her emotion , forbore to speak to her , though he could not deny himself the pleasure of snatching one kiss of the hand which hung down upon the shoulder of Eugenia ; he then whispered to both the sisters : `` You will not , I trust , be my enemies ? '' 
`` It means , '' said Camilla , `` that I am the most distressed -- yet the happiest of human beings ! '' 
Again the most expressive smiles played in every feature through the tears of Camilla , as she turned , with involuntary archness , to Eugenia , and answered : `` And shall I follow his counsel , my dear sister , if he gives me any ? '' 
Gaiety was so truly the native growth of the mind of Camilla , that neither care nor affliction could chace it long from its home . 
`` My dear Camilla , '' said Eugenia , with a look of curious earnestness , and taking both her hands , while she seemed examining her face , `` you are then , it seems , in love ? 
Camilla , blushing , yet laughing , broke away from her , denying the charge . 
She resolved to wait but this one reply , and then to acknowledge to Edgar the whole of her situation . 
Painful , therefore , confusing and distasteful , as was the task , Camilla determined upon the avowal , and as completely to be guided by Edgar in this difficult conjuncture , as if his advice were already sanctioned by conjugal authority . 
will you trust to me your Camilla ? '' 
-- With all the ardour of her character , all the keen and quick feelings of her sensitive mind , scarce had Camilla herself been more struck , more penetrated with sudden joy , sudden wonder , sudden gratification of every kind , than Mr. Tyrold felt at this moment . 
He more than returned the pressure with which Edgar held his hand , and instantly answered , `` Yes , my excellent young friend , without hesitation , without a shadow of apprehension for her happiness ! 
though she is all the fondest father can wish ; -- and though she only who gave her to me is dearer ! '' 
He kissed with reverence the hand of Mr. Tyrold , called him by the honoured and endearing title of father ; acknowledged that , from the earliest period of observation , Camilla had seemed to him the most amiable of human creatures ; spoke with the warm devotion he sincerely felt for her of Mrs. Tyrold ; and was breathing forth his very soul in tender rapture upon his happy prospects , when something between a sigh and a groan from the baronet , made him hastily turn round , apologise for not sooner addressing him , and respectfully solicit his consent . 
and do you really love my poor Camilla , for all her not being worth a penny ? 
And will you never vex her , nor speak an unkind word to her ? 
He then rang the bell , and ordered Jacob to summon Camilla to the parlour , adding , And all the rest too , Jacob , for I have something to tell them every one , which , I make no doubt , they will be very glad to hear , yourself included , as well as your fellow-servants , who have no right to be left out ; only let my niece come first , being her own affair . '' 
Camilla obeyed not the call without many secret sensations of distress and difficulty , but which , mingled with the more obvious ones of modesty and embarrassment , all passed for a flutter of spirits that appeared natural to the occasion . 
Camilla had no power to draw herself from his arms ; but Edgar hovered round her , and Sir Hugh repeatedly and impatiently demanded to have his turn . 
Mr. Tyrold , gently disengaging himself from her embraces , gave one of her hands to Edgar , who , with grateful joy , pressed it to his lips . 
Camilla cast herself into his arms , he kissed her most fondly , saying : `` Do n't forget your poor old uncle , my dear little girl , for the account of this young Mr. Edgar , because , good as he is , he has taken to you but a short time in comparison with me . '' 
`` Why , yes , my dear , that 's the first principal , and the other is , that young Mr. Edgar 's going to marry Camilla ; which I hope you wo n't take ill , liking being all fancy . '' 
cried she , with a disdainful toss of the head , though severely mortified ; `` it 's nothing to me , I 'm sure ! '' 
Camilla ashamed , and Edgar embarrassed , strove now mutually to shew Sir Hugh they wished no more might be said : but he only embraced them again , and declared he had never been so full of joy before in his whole life , and would not be cut short . 
Miss Margland , extremely piqued , vented her spleen in oblique sarcasms , and sought to heal her offended pride by appeals for justice to her sagacity and foresight in the whole business . 
Camilla tried to escape ; but Sir Hugh would not permit her , and the house-keeper and butler led the way , followed by every other domestic of the house . 
`` Well , my friends , '' he cried , `` wish her joy , which I am sure you will do of your own accord , for she 's going to be mistress of Beech-Park ; which I thought would have been the case with my other niece , till I found out my mistake ; which is of no consequence now , all having ended for the best ; though unknown to us poor mortals . '' 
The servants obeyed with alacrity , and offered their hearty congratulations to the blushing Camilla and happy Edgar , Molly Mill excepted ; who , having concluded Sir Sedley Clarendel the man , doubted her own senses , and , instead of open felicitations , whispered Camilla , `` Dear Miss , I 've got another letter for you ! 
Camilla , frightened , said : `` Hush ! 
while Edgar , imagining the girl , whose simplicity and talkativeness were familiar to him , had said something ridiculous , intreated to be indulged with hearing her remark : but seeing Camilla look grave , forbore to press his request . 
Camilla could now stay no longer ; nor could Edgar , though adoring the hearty joy of Sir Hugh , refuse to aid her in absconding . 
He begged her permission to follow , as soon as it might be possible , which she tacitly accorded . 
She was impatient herself for the important conference she was planning , and felt , with increasing solicitude , that all her life 's happiness hung upon her power to extricate herself honourably from the terrible embarrassment in which she was involved . 
She sauntered about the hall till the servants came out , anxious to receive the letter which Molly Mill had announced . 
Camilla , in great confusion , put it into her pocket . 
He took her other hand , and , kissing it , cried : `` No , sweetest Camilla , such unworthy distrust shall make no part of our compact . 
The first impulse of Camilla was , to commit to him immediately the unopened letter : but the fear of its contents , its stile , its requisitions , made her terror overpower her generosity ; and , though she looked after him with regret , she stood still to break the seal of her letter . 
The immediate presence of Edgar himself could not have made this letter die the cheeks of Camilla of a deeper red . 
She saw that Sir Sedley thought her only coquetishly trifling , and she looked forward with nearly equal horror to clearing up a mistake that might embitter his future life , and to acknowledging to Edgar -- the scrupulous , the scrutinising , the delicate Edgar -- that such a mistake could have been formed . 
She was ruminating upon this formidable , this terrible task , when Edgar again appeared , accompanied by her sisters . 
She hurried the letter into her pocket . 
Edgar saw the action with a concern that dampt his spirits ; he wished to obtain from her immediately the unlimited trust , which immediately , and for ever , he meant to repose in her . 
They all strolled together for a short time in the park ; but she was anxious to retreat to her room , and her sisters were dying with impatience to read Sir Sedley 's letter . 
Edgar , disturbed to see how little any of their countenances accorded with the happy feelings he had so recently experienced , proposed not to lengthen the walk , but flattered himself , upon re-entering the house , Camilla would afford him a few minutes of explanation . 
But she only , with a faint smile , said she should soon return to the parlour ; and he saw Molly Mill eagerly waiting for her upon the stairs , and heard her , in reply to some question concerning Tommy Hodd , desire the girl to be quiet till she got to her room . 
Edgar could form no idea of what all this meant , yet , that some secret disturbance preyed upon Camilla , that some gentleman wrote to her , and expected impatiently an answer ; and that the correspondence passed neither through her friends , nor by the post , but by the medium of Molly Mill , were circumstances not less unaccountable than unpleasant . 
Camilla , meanwhile , produced the letter to her sisters , beseeching their ablest counsel . 
`` See but , '' she cried , `` how dreadfully unprepared is Sir Sedley for the event of the day ! 
The counsel of Eugenia , then , prevailed ; and it was settled , that Camilla should avoid , for the present , any communication to Edgar , lest it should lead to mischief between him and the young baronet , who could not but be mutually displeased with each other ; and that the next morning , before she saw Edgar again , she should set out for the Grove , and there cast herself wholly upon the generosity of Sir Sedley ; and , when freed from all engagement , return , and relate , without reserve , the whole history to Edgar ; who would so soon be brother of her brother , that he would pardon the faults of Lionel , and who would then be in no danger himself from personal contest or discussion with Sir Sedley . 
She wrote , therefore , one line , to say she would see Mrs. Arlbery early the next day , and delivered it to Molly Mill ; who promised to borrow a horse of the under-groom , that Tommy Hodd might be back before bed-time , without any obligation to Sir Sedley . 
The three sisters were retired , at night , to another council in the room of Camilla , when Molly Mill , with a look of dismay , burst in upon them , bringing , with the answer of Sir Sedley , news that Tommy Hodd , by an accident he could not help , had rode the horse she had borrowed for him of the under-groom to death . 
The debt of Lionel , the correspondence with Sir Sedley , the expectations of the young baronet -- Camilla could not support it ; she sent for Jacob to own to him the affair , and beg his assistance . 
The cost , he said , of poor Tom Jones was 40 l. Camilla held up her hands , almost screaming . 
cried Camilla ; `` I would not add the history of this dreadful expence to the sad tale I have already to relate to Edgar for the universe ! 
`` As far as these three guineas will go , '' said Lavinia , taking out her purse , `` here , my dearest Camilla , they are ; -- but how little that is ! 
Eugenia , who , in haste , had stept to her own room , now came back , and putting twenty guineas into the hand of Camilla , said : `` This , my beloved sister , is all I now have by me ; but Jacob is rich and good , and will rejoice to pay the rest for us at present ; and I shall very soon reimburse him , for my uncle has insisted upon making me a very considerable present , which I shall , now , no longer refuse . '' 
Camilla burst into tears , and , hanging about their necks : `` O my sisters , '' she cried , `` what goodness is yours ! 
`` Do not teach me to repine , my dear Camilla , that I have no more ! 
At an early hour , the next morning , the commission , with the twenty guineas in hand , and the promise of the rest in a short time , were given to Jacob ; and Camilla , then , begged permission of her father , and the carriage of her uncle , to visit Mrs. Arlbery , who , she had heard , was just returned to the Grove . 
Concluding she wished to be the messenger of her own affairs to that lady , they made no opposition , and she set off before eight o'clock , without entering the parlour , where Edgar , she was informed , was already arrived for breakfast . 
The little journey was terrible to her ; scenes of disappointment and despair on the part of Sir Sedley , were anticipated by her alarmed imagination , and she reproached herself for every word she had ever spoken , every look she had ever given , that could have raised any presumption of her regard . 
The last note was written in the style of all the others , and not one ever expressed the smallest doubt of success ; how dreadful then to break to him such news , at the very moment he might imagine she came to meet him with partial pleasure ! 
Camilla inquired , stammering , if any company were at the house . 
She then begged leave to walk in the garden till Mrs. Arlbery came down stairs . 
Camilla had seen him the moment she raised her eyes , and her horror was uncontrollable . 
Edgar , recalled by what he thought insolence to his recollection , advanced a few steps , and addressing himself to Camilla , said : `` I had the commands of Sir Hugh to pursue you , Miss Tyrold , to give you immediate notice that Mr. Lynmere is arrived . '' 
Camilla looked after him till he was out of sight , with uplifted hands and eyes , deploring his departure , his mistake , and his resentment , without courage to attempt stopping him . 
If Edgar 's was the displeasure of a discarded lover , why should it so affect Camilla ? 
if of a successful one , why came she to meet him ? 
why had she received and answered his notes ? 
Finding she attempted neither to speak nor move , he again approached her , and saying , `` Fair Incomprehensible ! 
-- '' would again have taken her hand ; but rousing to a sense of her situation , she drew back , and with some dignity , but more agitation , cried : `` Sir Sedley , I blush if I am culpable of any part of your mistake ; but suffer me now to be explicit , and let me be fully , finally , and not too late understood . 
Camilla now , amazed , cried , `` what is it you mean , sir ? '' 
Utterly confounded by so unexpected a disclaiming of all design , she again , though from far different sensations , cast up her eyes and hands . 
And is it , she thought , for a trifler such as this , so unmeaning , so unfeeling , I have risked my whole of hope and happiness ? 
She said , however , no more ; for what more could be said ? 
She coloured , past him , and hastily quitting the garden , told the footman to apologise to Mrs. Arlbery for her sudden departure , by informing her that a near relation was just arrived from abroad ; and then got into the carriage and drove back to Cleves . 
Camilla had but just set out from Cleves , when Sir Hugh , consulting his weather-cocks , which a new chain of ideas had made him forget to examine , saw that the wind was fair for the voyage of his nephew ; and heard , upon inquiry , that the favourable change had taken place the preceding day , though the general confusion of the house had prevented it from being heeded by any of the family . 
He come by t ` other way just as master , and Miss Margland , and Miss Lynmere , and Miss Tyrold , was gone to meet him by the great gate ; and so he said he 'd come and look who he could find himself . '' 
The family was all assembled in the parlour , except Camilla , for whom the baronet had instantly dispatched Edgar , and Mr. Tyrold , who was not yet returned from a morning ride , but for whom Sir Hugh had ordered the great dinner bell to be rung , as a signal of something extraordinary . 
When the carriage arrived with Camilla , young Lynmere loitered to a window , to look at it ; Eugenia arose , meaning to seize the opportunity to escape to her room ; but seeing him turn round upon her moving , she again sat down , experiencing , for the first time , a sensation of shame for her lameness , which , hitherto , she had regularly borne with fortitude , when she had not forgotten from indifference : neither did she feel spirits to exhibit , again , before his tall and strikingly elegant figure , her diminutive little person . 
Camilla entered with traces of a disordered mind too strongly marked in her countenance to have escaped observation , had she been looked at with any attention . 
The wan countenance of Camilla soon , however , drew all observation upon herself , and obliged her to narrate the cruel adventure of the morning . 
The bird , therefore , by Tom Hodd , was instantly conveyed to Clarendel-Place ; but the letters Camilla retained , till she could first shew them to Edgar , -- if this event had not lost him to her for ever , and if he manifested any desire of an explanation . 
she cried , `` what a tale have I now to unfold ! 
I have thought Camilla bestowed upon another , -- I have believed her , -- oh , Doctor ! 
He then detailed the account , calling upon the Doctor to unravel to him the insupportable nigma of his destiny ; to tell him for what purpose Camilla had shewn him a tenderness so bewitching , at the very time she was carrying on a clandestine intercourse with another ? 
with a man , who , though destitute neither of wit nor good qualities , it was impossible she should love , since she was as incapable of admiring as of participating in his defects ? 
Why accept and suffer her friends to accept him , if engaged to Sir Sedley ? 
`` Whence , Doctor Marchmont , the daring boldness of his seizing her hand ? 
explain , expound to me this work of darkness and amazement ; tell me why , with every appearance of the most artless openness , I find her thus eternally disingenuous and unintelligible ? 
why , though I have cast myself wholly into her power , she retains all her mystery -- she heightens it into deceit next perjury ? '' 
The young baronent , probably , has been making his court to her , or she has believed such was his design ; but as you first came to the point , she would not hazard rejecting you , while uncertain if he were serious . 
She was , possibly , putting him to the test , by the account of your declaration , at the moment of your unseasonable intrusion . '' 
But Edgar could not hear him ; he shook hands with him , faintly smiled , as an apology for not speaking ; and , hurrying off , without waiting for his servant , gallopped towards the New Forest : leaving his absence from Cleves to declare his defection , and bent only to fly from Camilla , and all that belonged to her . 
All , however , that belonged to Camilla was precisely what followed him ; purfued him in every possible , form , clung to his heart-strings , almost maddened his senses . 
To lose thus , without necessity , without calamity , the object of his dearest wishes , -- to lose her from mere declension of esteem -- `` Any inevitable evil , '' he cried , `` I could have sustained ; any blow of fortune , however severe ; any stroke of adversity , however terrible ; -- but this -- this error of all my senses -- this deception of all my hopes -- this extinction of every feeling I have cherished '' -- He rode on yet harder , leaping over every thing , thoughtless rather than fearless of every danger he could encounter , and gallopping with the speed and violence of some pursuit , though wholly without view , and almost without consciousness ; as if , hoping by flight , to escape from the degenerate portrait of Camilla : but its painter was his own imagination , and mocked the attempt . 
Miss Camilla 's like a child of my own , as one may say ; and she 'll never hold up her head again , I 'll be bound for it , if you should come to any harm ; and , as to poor old master ! 
Struck with words which , from so faithful an old servant , could not but be touching , Edgar was brought suddenly to himself , and felt the claim of the Tyrold family for a conduct more guarded . 
He endeavoured to put his own feelings apart , and consider how best he might spare those of the friends of Camilla ; those of Camilla herself he concluded to be out of his reach , except as they might simply relate to the female pride and vanity of refusing rather than being given up . 
This , at such a period , would create a surprise that might lead the way to what would follow : and Camilla , who could not , he thought , be much astonished , might then take her own measures for the defection she would see reason to expect . 
something that will do you no good , I 'll be bound , by the look of your eyes , which look as big as if they was both going to drop out ; you 'd better come yourself and tell 'em what 's the matter , and speak a word to poor Miss Camilla , or she 'll never believe but what some ill has betided you . 
Why we all knew about it , fast enough , before our master told us ; servants have eyes as well as their masters ; only Mary will have it she found it out at the first , which a n't true , for I saw it by the time you 'd been a week in the house ; and if you 'll take my word , squire , I do n't think there 's such another heart in the world as Miss Camilla 's , except just my own old master 's . '' 
`` What a power of good she 'll do , '' continued Jacob , `` when she 's mistress of Beech Park ! 
I warrant she 'll go about , visiting the poor , and making them clothes , and broths , and wine possets , and baby-linen , all day long . 
She has done it at Etherington quite from a child ; and when she had nothing to give 'em , she used to take her thread papers and needle books , and sit down and work for them , and carry them bits and scraps of things to help 'em to patch their gowns . 
Why when she 's got your fine fortunes , she 'll bring a blessing upon the whole country . '' 
Edgar felt touched ; his wrath was softened into tenderness , and he ejaculated to himself : `` Such , indeed , I thought Camilla ! 
-- I thought that in putting my fortune into her hands , I was serving the unhappy , -- feeding the indigent , -- reviving the sick ! '' 
`` Master , '' continued Jacob , `` took a fancy to her from the very first , as well as I ; and when master said she was coming to live with us , I asked to make it a holiday for all our folks , and master was as pleased as I . 
But nobody 'd think what a tender heart she 's got of her own , without knowing her , because of her singing , and laughing , and dancing so , except when old Miss Margland 's in the way , who 's what Mr. Lionel calls a kill-joy at any time . 
Almost instinctively he remounted his horse , and almost involuntarily -- drawn on by hearkening to the praise of Camilla , and fascinated by the details made by Jacob of her regard , accompanied him back to Cleves . 
As they rode into the park , and while he was earnestly endeavouring to form some palliation , by which he might exculpate what seemed to him so guilty in the strange meeting and its strange circumstances , he perceived Camilla herself , walking upon the lawn . 
He saw she had observed him , and saw , from her air , she seemed irresolute if to re-enter the house , or await him . 
Jacob , significantly pointing her out , offered to shew the effect he could produce by what he could relate ; but Edgar ; giving him the charge of his horse , earnestly besought him to retire in quiet , and to keep his opinions and experiments to himself . 
They approached each other ; Camilla with her eyes fixed upon the ground , her air embarrassed , and her cheeks covered with blushes ; Edgar with quick , but almost tottering steps , his eyes wildly avoiding hers , and his complexion pale even to indisposition . 
When they were met within a few yards , they stopt ; Camilla still without courage to look up , and Edgar striving to speak , but finding no passage for his voice . 
Camilla , then , ashamed of her situation , raised her eyes , and forced herself to say , `` Have you been into the house ? 
Struck with a cold formality that never before , from Edgar , had reached her ears , and shocked by the sight of his estranged and altered countenance , with the cruel consciousness that appearances authorised the most depreciating suspicions , she advanced , and holding out her hand , `` Edgar , '' she gently cried , `` are you ill ? 
`` O Camilla ! '' 
Deeply affected , she could hardly stand . 
He had taken her offered hand , but in a manner so changed from the same action the preceding day , that she scarce knew if he touched while he held it , scarce felt that he relinquished , as almost immediately she withdrew it . 
But her condescension at this moment was rather a new torment than any solace to him . 
The hand which she proferred , and which the day before he had received as the token of permanent felicity , he had now seen in the possession of another , with every licence , every apparent mark of permitted rapture in which he had been indulged himself . 
`` I see , '' cried she , after a mortified pause ; `` you have lost your good opinion of me -- I can only , therefore -- '' She stopt , but his melancholy silence was a confirmation of her suggestion that offended her into more exertion , and , with sensibility raised into dignity , she added , `` only hope your intended tour to the Continent may take place without delay ! '' 
She would then have walked on to the house ; but following her , `` Is all over ? '' 
he cried , `` and is it thus , Camilla , we part ? '' 
said she , suppressing a figh , yet turning back . 
cruel Camilla ! 
she cried , with alacrity ; and instantly taking out her pocket-book , presented him with the prepared packet . 
Penetrated by this unexpected openness and compliance , he snatched her hand , with intent to press it to his lips ; but again the recollection he had seen that liberty accorded to Sir Sedley , joined to the sight of his writing , checked him ; he let it go ; bowed his thanks with a look of grateful respect , and attempting no more to stop her , walked towards the summer-house , to peruse the letters . 
Young Lynmere , under an appearance of mingled assurance and apathy , the effect of acquired conceit , playing upon natural insipidity , was secretly tormented with the rueful necessity of sacrificing either a noble fortune , or his own fine person ; Sir Hugh felt a strange disappointment form the whole behaviour of his nephew , though it was what he would not acknowledge , and could not define ; Mr. Tyrold saw with much uneasiness the glaringly apparent unsuitableness of the intended alliance ; Eugenia had never yet thought herself so plain and insignificant , and felt as if , even since the morning , the small-pox had renewed its ravages , and she had sunk into being shorter ; Indiana and Miss Margland were both acutely incensed with Mandlebert ; Dr. Orkborne saw but small reason to expect gratitude for his labours form the supercilious negligence of the boasted young student ; Lavinia was disturbed for both her sisters ; and Camilla felt that all she valued in life depended upon the next critical hour or two . 
`` I know well , Doctor , '' said Edgar , `` that to find me here , after all that has passed , will make you conclude me the weakest of men -- but I can not now explain how it has been brought about -- these letters must first tell me if Camilla and I meet more than once again . '' 
Thither , therefore , he proceeded , purposing to seek Camilla , to return her the letters of Sir Sedley , and to desire her commands in what manner to conduct himself with her father and her uncle , in acknowledging his fears that the projected union would fail of affording , to either party , the happiness which , at first , it seemed to promise . 
Camilla , during this period , had gone through conflicts no less severe . 
had informed her of the gate adventure of Edgar , and told her that , but for his stopping him , he was riding like mad from Cleves , and only sending them all a message that he could not come back . 
Grieved , surprised , and offended , she instantly determined she would not risk such another mark of his cold superiority , but restore to him his liberty , and leave him master of himself . 
`` If the severity of his judgment , '' cried she , `` is so much more potent than the warmth of his affection , it shall not be his delicacy , nor his compassion , that shall make me his . 
She then , without weighing , or even seeing one objection , precipitately resolved to beg permission of her friends , to accept an invitation she had received , without as yet answering , to meet Mrs. Berlinton at Southampton , where that lady was going to pass some weeks . 
Camilla wept with joy at the idea : `` Ah ! '' 
she cried , `` if such should be my happy fate ; if , after hearing all my imprudence , my precipitance , and want of judgment , he should voluntarily , when wholly set free , return to me -- I will confess to him every feeling -- and every failing of my heart ! 
Another pause now ensued ; Dr. Marchmont , who , of the whole party , was alone , at this time , capable of leading to a general conversation , was separately occupied by watching Camilla ; while himself , as usual , was curiously and unremittingly examined by Dr. Orkborne , in whom so much attention to a young lady raised many private doubts of the justice of his scholastic fame ; which soon , by what he observed of his civility even to Miss Margland , were confirmed nearly to scepticism . 
Still Edgar , though frequent opportunities occurred , had no fortitude to address Camilla , and no spirits to speak . 
To her , however , his dejection was a revival ; she read in it her power , and hoped her present plan would finally confirm it . 
A servant now came in , announcing a person who had brought two letters , one for Sir Hugh , the other for Miss Camilla , but who said he would deliver them himself . 
The wonder of Sir Hugh was awakened for his letter ; but Camilla , dreading a billet from Sir Sedley , was in no haste . 
He then , however , added he had made a mistake , as there was no letter for his master , but one for Miss Camilla , and the other for Miss Margland . 
Camilla alone was not perplext by this sight ; she had , already , from the description , suggested whom she might expect , according to the intimation given by the ever mischievous Lionel . 
He then cast his eyes round the room , and espying Camilla , with a leering sort of smile , said : `` O , you 're there , ma'am ! 
He then presented her a letter , which she hastily put up , not daring to venture at a public perusal , lest it might contain not merely something ludicrous concerning Mr. Dubster , to which she was wholly indifferent , but allusions to Sir Sedley Clarendel , which , in the actual situation of things , might be fatally unseasonable . 
This address did not much add to the benevolent eagerness of Miss Margland to read the epistle , and endeavouring to decline accepting it : `` Really , '' she said , `` unless I know what it 's about , I 'm not much used to receiving letters in that manner . '' 
She would then have retired ; but Mr. Dubster , stopping her , said : `` Why , if you do n't read it , ma'am , nobody 'll be never the wiser for what I come about , for its ungain-like to speak for one 's self ; and the young gentleman said he 'd write to you , because , he said , you 'd like it the best . '' 
`` Young squire Tyrold ; he said you 'd be as pleased as any thing to tell it to the old gentleman yourself ; for you was vast fond , he said , of matrimony . '' 
Then , advancing to Camilla : `` Now , ma'am , let 's you and I have a little talk together ; but first , by good rights , I ought to speak to your uncle ; only I do n't know which he is ; ` twill be mortal kind if you 'll help a body out . '' 
Sir Hugh blessed himself , and Mr. Dubster said to Camilla : `` So , ma'am , why you do n't read your letter , neither , no more than the gentlewoman ; however , I think you may as well see a little what 's in it ; though I suppose no great matters , being from a lady . '' 
cried she , and eagerly taking it from her pocket , saw the hand-writing of Mrs. Berlinton , and inquired how it came into his possession . 
Camilla , hastily running it over , found it contained a most pressing repetition of invitation from Mrs. Berlinton for the Southampton plan , and information that she should make a little circuit , to call and take her up at Cleves , if not immediately forbidden ; the time she named for her arrival , though four days distant from the date of her letter , would be now the following morning . 
This seemed , to the agitated spirits of Camilla , an inviting opening to her scheme . 
While the baronet was pondering , in the most melancholy manner , upon this sudden and unexpected demand of absence in Camilla , the grim goddess of Envy took possession of the fine features of Indiana ; who declared she was immured alive , while her cousin went every where . 
Sir Hugh , concluding Edgar would attend Camilla , feared it might hurt the other match to part Eugenia from Clermont ; and , after a little pause , though deeply sighing at such a dispersion from Cleves , consented that they should all go together . 
Camilla , therefore , was commissioned to ask leave of Mr. Tyrold for Eugenia , as well as for herself , and to add a petition from Sir Hugh , that he and Lavinia would spend the time of their absence at Cleves . 
`` Still , Doctor , though nearly in defiance of all my senses , still I can doubt any thing rather than the heart of Camilla ! 
`` Because I never trouble myself with any thing that 's impertinent , '' she haughtily answered : though , in fact , when the family had retired , she had stolen down stairs , and read the letter ; which contained a warm recommendation of Mr. Dubster to her favour , with abundant flippant offers to promote her own interest for so desirable a match , should Camilla prove blind to its advantages . 
This she had then burnt , with a determination never to acknowledge her condescension in opening it . 
Taking Sir Hugh , then , by a button of his coat , he desired he would go back with him to the other parlour : and there , with much circumlocution , and unqualified declarations of his having given over all thoughts of further marrying , till the young gentleman over persuaded him of his being particular agreeable to the young lady , he solemnly proposed himself for Miss Camilla Tyrold . 
Hurrying , then , back to the breakfast parlour , and to Camilla , `` Come hither , my dear , '' he cried , `` for here 's a gentleman come to make his addresses to you , that wo n't take an answer . '' 
Every serious thought , and every melancholy apprehension in Camilla gave place , at this speech , to the ludicrous image of such an admirer as Mr. Dubster , foisted upon her by the ridiculous machinations of Lionel . 
of Camilla , `` good lack ! 
`` Good lack , my dear , '' cried the baronet , to Camilla , `` the gentleman quite denies it . '' 
Camilla , though unable to refrain from laughing , confessed she had received the information from Mrs. Arlbery at the Northwick breakfast , who , she now supposed , had said it in random sport . 
It contained his consent to return , with Lavinia , to Cleves , and his ready acquiescence in the little excursion to Southampton , since Miss Margland would be superintendant of the party ; `` and since , '' he added , `` they will have another guardian , to whom already I consign my Camilla , and , upon her account , my dear Eugenia also , with the same fearless confidence I should feel in seeing them again under the maternal wing . '' 
Camilla 's distress at this speech past unnoticed , from the abrupt entrance of Lynmere , giving orders aloud to his servant to get ready for Southampton . 
Forcing a chair between Sir Hugh and Camilla , he seized rapidly whatever looked most inviting from every plate on the table , to place upon his own , murmuring the whole time against the horses , declaring the stud the most wretched he had ever seen , and protesting the old groom must be turned away without loss of time . 
Camilla and Eugenia , mutually pained for him , endeavoured , by various little kind offices , to divert his attention ; but Indiana thought his displeasure proved her brother to be a wit ; and Clermont rose in spirits and in insolence upon the same idea : too shallow to know , that of all the qualities with which the perversity of human nature is gifted , the power which is the most common to attain , and the most easy to practise , is the art of provoking . 
Lynmere , resentfully hanging back , said no more : and Mr. Dubster , having drunk seven dishes of tea , with a long apology between each for the trouble , gladly seized the moment of pause , to ask Camilla when she had heard from their friend Mrs. Mittin , adding , `` I should have brought you a letter from her , ma'am , myself , but that I was rather out of sorts with her ; for happening to meet her , the day as you went , walking on them Pantiles , with some of her quality binding , when I was not dressed out quite in my best becomes , she made as if she did not know me . 
And young ` squire Tyrold 's never heard a word of it : which is somewhat of a wonder too . '' 
I 've settled every thing I was worth in the world upon her younger sister , that you saw sitting by her . '' 
Mrs. Berlinton now arrived , and , as Camilla was ready , though trembling , doubtful , apprehensive of the step she was taking , declined alighting . 
A general meeting was to take place at the inn : and the baronet , putting a twenty pound note into her hand , with the most tender blessings parted with his darling niece . 
When Camilla appeared at the halldoor , a gentleman descended from the carriage of Mrs. Berlinton , with an air the most melancholy , and eyes bent to the earth , in the mournful bow with which he offered her his hand : though , when he had assisted her into the coach , he raised them , and , turning round , cast upon the mansion a look of desponding fondness , that immediately brought to her recollection young Melmond , the Oxford student , and the brother of her new friend . 
The affection of Camilla was nearly reciprocal , but her pleasure had no chance of equal participation ; nor was the suspensive state of her mind the only impediment ; opposite to her in the carriage , and immediately claiming her attention , was Mrs. Mittin . 
The journey , though in itself short and pleasant , proved to Camilla long and wearisome ; the beauties of the prospect were acknowledged by her eye , but her mind , dead to pleasure , refused to give them their merited effect . 
To the charms of nature she could not be blind ; her servent imagination , and the lessons of her youth , combined to do them justice ; but she thought not of them at this moment ; hill , vale , or plain , were uninteresting , however beautiful ; it was Edgar she looked for ; Edgar , who thus coldly had suffered her to depart , but who still , it was possible , might pursue ; and hope , ever active , painted him , as she proceeded , in every distant object that caught her eye , whether living or inanimate , brightening , from time to time , the roses of her cheeks with the felicity of a speedy reconciliation ; but upon every near approach , the flattering error was detected , and neither hill , vale , nor plain ; could dispel the disappointment . 
They drove immediately to an elegant house , situated upon a small eminence , half a mile without the town of Southampton , which had already been secured ; and Mrs. Berlinton , as soon as she had chosen the pleasantest apartment it afforded for Camilla , and suffered Mrs. Mittin to choose the next pleasant for herself , went , accompanied by her brother , to the lodging of Mrs. Ecton . 
Left alone , Camilla stationed herself at a window , believing she meant to look at the prospect ; but her eye , faithful to her heart , roved up and down the high road , and took in only chaises or horsemen , till Mrs. Mittin , with her customary familiarity , came into the room . 
Camilla now experienced the extremest repentance and shame , to find herself involved in any obligation with a character so forward , vulgar , and encroaching , and to impose such a person , through the abuse of her name and influence , upon the time and patience of Mrs. Berlinton . 
Camilla would now have been left alone ; but Mrs. Mittin thought of nothing less than quitting her , and she knew not how to bid her depart . 
It was uncertain when Mrs. Berlinton could return ; to obviate , therefore , in some measure , the fatigue of such conversation , Camilla proposed walking . 
It was still but two o'clock , and the weather was delicious ; every place that opened to any view , presented some prospect that was alluring ; Camilla , notwithstanding her anxiety , was caught , and at intervals , at least , forgot all within , from admiration of all without . 
Mrs. Mittin led immediately to the town , and Camilla was struck with its neatness , and surprised by its populousness . 
This pretext proved so fertile to her of entertainment , in the opportunity it afforded of taking a near view of the various commodities exposed to sale , that while she entered almost every shop , with inquiries of what was worth seeing , she attended to no answer nor information , but having examined and admired all the goods within sight or reach , walked off , to obtain , by similar means , a similar privilege further on ; boasting to Camilla , that , by this clever device they might see all that was smartest , without the expence of buying any thing . 
It is possible that this might safely have been repeated , from one end of the town to the other , had Mrs. Mittin been alone ; and she seemed well disposed to make the experiment ; but Camilla , who , absent and absorbed , accompanied without heeding her , was of a figure and appearance not quite so well adapted for indulging with impunity such unbridled curiosity . 
The shopkeepers , who , according to their several tastes or opinions , gave their directions to the churches , the quays , the market-place , the antique gates , the town-hall , & c. involuntarily looked at her as they answered the questioner , and not satisfied with the short view , followed to the door , to look again ; this presently produced an effect , that , for the whole length of the High-street , was amply ridiculous ; every one perceiving that , whatsoever had been his recommendation , whether to the right , to the left , or straight forward , the two inquirers went no further than into the next shop , whence they regularly drew forth either the master or the man to make another starer at their singular proceeding . 
When he came up to them , the pensive and absorbed look of Camilla struck him as too particular to be natural ; and in Mrs. Mittin he immediately fancied he perceived something wild , if not insane . 
Mrs. Mittin , soon observing the curiosity with which he examined them , looked at him so hard in return , talking the whole time , in a quick low voice , to Camilla , upon his oddity , that , struck with a direful panic , in the persuasion she was marking him for some mischief , he turned short about to get back to his companions ; leaving Mrs. Mittin with precisely the same opinion of himself which he had imbibed of her . 
This seemed so secure , as well as pleasant , that Camilla , soothed by the tranquility with which she could contemplate the noble Southampton water and its fine banks , sat down at the window , and desired not to walk any further . 
Mrs. Mittin , meanwhile , was as much amused , though with different objects , as Camilla . 
Camilla also surveyed , but almost without seeing them ; for the only image of her mind now unexpectedly met her view ; Dr. Marchmont and Edgar , just arrived , had patrolled to the beach , where Edgar , whose eye , from his eagerness , appeared to be every where in a moment , immediately perceived her ; they both bowed , and Dr. Marchmont , amazed by the air and figure of her companion , inquired if Mrs. Berlinton had any particularly vulgar relation to whom she was likely to commit her fair guest . 
Edgar , who had seen only herself , could not now forbear another glance ; but the aspect of Mrs. Mittin , without Mrs. Berlinton , or any other more dignified or fitting protectress , was both unaccountable and unpleasant to him ; he recollected having seen her at Tunbridge , where the careless temper , and negligent manners of Mrs. Arlbery , made all approaches easy , that answered any purpose of amusement or ridicule ; but he could not conceive how Mrs. Berlinton , or Camilla herself , could be joined by such a companion . 
The curiosity of Edgar would have been converted into ridicule , had he been less uneasy at seeing with whom Camilla was thus associated ; Mrs. Mittin might certainly be a worthy woman , and , if so , must merit every kindness that could be shewn her ; but her air and manner so strongly displayed the low bred society to which she had been accustomed , that he foresaw nothing but improper acquaintance , or demeaning adventures , that could ensue from such a connection at a public place . 
Nothing of this could Edgar comprehend , except that Camilla had suffered herself to be led about by Mrs. Mittin , entirely at her pleasure ; but all further inquiry was stopt , by the voluntary and pert junction of Girt , the young perfumer , who , during this period , had by no means been idle ; for perceiving , in the group waiting for a vessel , a certain customer by whom he knew such a subject would be well received , he contrived to excite his curiosity to ask some questions , which could only be satisfied by the history of the wager , and his own opinion that both parties were out . 
This drew all eyes to the bathing room ; and new bets soon were circulated , consisting of every description of conjecture , or even possibility , except that the two objects in question were innocent : and for that , in a set of fourteen , one only was found who defended Camilla , though her face seemed the very index of purity , which still more strongly was painted upon it than beauty , or even than youth . 
but , take my word for it -- '' Here Edgar , who again had irresistibly looked up at the room , saw that three gentlemen had entered it ; alarmed lest these surmises should be productive of impertinence to Camilla , he darted quick from the beach to her immediate protection . 
Edgar , convinced now Camilla was here again implicated , broke with disgust from the man , and rushed to the door he charged him to avoid . 
Camilla , from the instant she had perceived Edgar , had been in the utmost emotion , from doubt if his journey were to seek a reconciliation , or only to return her letters , and take a lasting farewel . 
Her first feeling at his sight urged her to retire : but something of a softer nature speedily interfered , representing , if now he should join her , what suffering might mutually be saved by an immediate conference . 
She kept , therefore , her seat , looking steadily straight down the water , and denying herself one moment 's glance at any thing , or person , upon the beach : little imagining she ingrossed , herself , the attention of all who paraded it . 
But , when the insinuations of the flippant perfumer had once made her looked at , her beauty , her apparently unprotected situation , and the account of the wager , seemed to render her an object to be stared at without scruple . 
Mrs. Mittin saw how much they were observed , but Camilla , unheeding her remarks , listened only to hear if any footsteps approached ; but when , at last , some struck her ears , they were accompanied by an unknown voice , so loud and clamorously jovial , that , disturbed , she looked round -- and saw the door violently flung open , and three persons , dressed like gentlemen , force their way into the small dwelling place . 
He was the only one of the whole party to whom the countenance of Camilla had announced innocence ; and when Halder , instigated by the assertions of the facetious Girt , proposed the present measure , and Lord Valhurst , caught by the youthful beauty of the fair subject of discussion , acceded , this single champion stood forth , and modestly , yet firmly , declaring his opinion they were mistaken , accompanied them with a view to protect her , if he himself were right . 
Boisterously entering , Halder addressed at once to Camilla , such unceremonious praise of her beauty , that , affrighted and offended , she hastily seized the arm of Mrs. Mittin , and , in a voice of alarm , though with an air of command that admitted to doubt of her seriousness , and no appeal from her resolution , said , `` Let us go home , Mrs. Mittin , immediately . '' 
But Camilla , equally frightened at them all , shrunk appalled from his assistance , and turned towards the window , with an intention of demanding help from Edgar , whom she supposed still on the beach ; but the peer , slowly moving from the door , said he was the last to mean to disconcert the young lady , and only wished to stop her till he could call for his carriage , that he might see her safe wherever she wished to go . 
Camilla had no doubt of the sincerity of this proposal , but would accept no aid from a stranger , even though an old man , while she hoped to obtain that of Edgar . 
Edgar , however , she saw not , and fear is generally precipitate : she concluded him gone ; concluded herself deserted , and , from knowing neither , equally fearing both the young men , inclined towards Lord Valhurst ; who , with delighted surprise , was going to take her under his care , when Edgar rushed forward . 
The pleasure that darted into her eyes announced his welcome . 
Halder , from his reception , thought the enigma of his own ill success solved ; the other youth , supposing him her brother , no longer sought to interfere ; but Lord Valhurst exhibited sings of such irrepressible mortification , that inexperience itself could not mistake the dishonourable views of his offered services , since , to see her in safety , was so evidently not their purpose . 
Camilla , looking at him with the horror he so justly excited , gave her hand to Edgar , who had instantly claimed it , and , without one word being uttered by either , hastily walked away with him , nimbly accompanied by Mrs. Mittin . 
Edgar and Camilla continued their walk in a silence painful to both , but which neither knew how first to break ; each wished with earnestness an opening to communication and confidence ; but , mutually shocked by the recent adventure , Edgar waited the absence of Mrs. Mittin , to point out the impropriety and insufficiency of such a guard ; and Camilla , still aghast with terror , had no power of any sort to begin a discourse . 
The horror of the attack she had just escaped became soon but a secondary suffering to Camilla , though , at the moment , it had impressed her more terribly than any actual event of her life , or any scene her creative imagination had ever painted ; yet , however dreadful , it was now past ; but who could tell the end of what remained ? 
the mute distance of Edgar , her uncertainty of his intentions , her suspicions of his wished secession , the severe task she thought necessary to perform of giving him his liberty , with the anguish of a total inability to judge whether such a step would recall his tenderness , or precipitate his retreat , were suggestions which quick succeeded , and , in a very short time , wholly domineered over every other . 
Her departure was a moment of extreme confusion to Camilla , who considered it as an invitation to her great scheme of rejection , but who stammered something upon every other subject , to keep that off . 
She looked at her letter , wondered what it could contain , could not imagine why Mrs. Berlinton should write when they must so soon meet ; and spent in conjectures upon its contents the time which Edgar besought her to bestow upon their perusal . 
The beginning of this speech had made Camilla break the seal of her letter ; but its conclusion agitated her too much for reading it . 
she answered , forcing herself to look towards him with cheerfulness ; `` it is merely -- attention . '' 
The confusion of Camilla was now converted into self-reproach . 
What she thought coldness , she had resented ; what appeared to her to be haughtiness , she had resisted ; but truth , in the form of gentleness , brought her instantly to reason , and reason could only resume its empire , to represent as rash and imprudent an expedition so repugnant , in its circumstances , to the wishes and opinions of the person whose approbation was most essential to her happiness . 
Edgar had paused ; and her every impulse led to a candid recognition of what she felt to be wrong ; but her precarious situation with him , the report of his intended flight by Jacob , the letters still detained of Sir Sedley Clarendel , and no explanation demanded , by which she could gather if his plighted honour were not now his only tie with her , curbed her design , depressed her courage , and , silently , she let him proceed . 
The new , but strong friendship of Camilla was alarmed for its delicacy by these words . 
During this harangue , Camilla , ashamed of her want of resolution , secretly vowed , that , if again left alone with him , she would not lose a moment in restoring him his liberty , that with dignity she might once more receive , or with fortitude for ever resign it . 
She thought herself , at this moment , capable of either ; but she had only thought it , since his softened look and air had made her believe she had nothing to fear from the alternative . 
Camilla spoke first , `` I have something , '' she cried , `` to say -- , '' but her voice became so husky , the inarticulate sounds died away unheard , and blushing at so feeble an opening , she strove , under the auspices of a cough , to disguise that she had spoken at all , for the purpose of beginning , in a more striking manner , again . 
This succeeded with Edgar at this moment , for he had heard her voice , not her words : he began , therefore , himself . 
And how can it have come to pass that such a person -- '' `` Talk of her , '' interrupted Camilla , recovering her breath , `` some other time . 
The mention of those letters brought fresh to his heart the bitterest , the most excruciating and intolerable pang it had ever experienced ; it brought Camilla to his view no longer artless , pure , and single-minded , but engaged to , or trifling with , one man , while seriously accepting another . 
Camilla felt stung by this reply , and tremulously answered , `` Give me them back , then , if you please , and I will take care to see them all demolished together , in the same flames . 
O , Camilla ! 
Cut to the soul by this question , which , though softened by the last phrase , she deemed severely cruel , she hastily exclaimed : `` Philosophy I have no right to speak of -- but as to insensibility -- who is the man that ever more can surprise me by its display ? 
Camilla , in whom anger was momentary , but the love of justice permanent , rejoiced at an interruption which prevented her from speaking , with pique and displeasure , a sentence that must lose all its purpose if not uttered with mildness . 
She would write , she said , immediately ; and , bidding the man get her pen and ink , went to the window to read her letter ; with a formal bow of apology to Edgar as she passed him . 
But you must feel for me , Camilla , in the wound you have inflicted ! 
-- '' Camilla felt touched , yet continued reading , or rather rapidly repeating to herself the words of her letter , without comprehending , or even seeking to comprehend , the meaning of one sentence . 
He found himself quite unequal to enduring her displeasure ; his own , all his cautions , all Dr. Marchmont 's advice , were forgotten ; and tenderly following her , `` Have I offended , '' he cried , `` past forgiveness ? 
Is Camilla immoveable ? 
and is the journey from which I fondly hoped to date the renewal of every hope , the termination of every doubt , the period of all suffering and sorrow -- '' He stopt abruptly , from the entrance of the servant with pen and ink , and the interruption was critical : it called him to his self-command : he stammered out that he would not impede her writing ; and , though in palpable confusion , took his leave : yet , at the street-door , he gave a ticket with his name , to the servant who attended him , for Mrs. Berlinton ; and , with his best respects , desired she might be told he should do himself the honour to endeavour to see her in the evening . 
The tender avowal which had escaped him to Camilla , of the view of his journey , had first with astonishment struck her ear , and next with quick enchantment vibrated to her heart , which again it speedily taught to beat with its pristine vivacity ; and joy , spirit , and confidence expelled in a breath all guests but themselves . 
Camilla was again called upon for her note , before she had read the letter it was to answer ; but relieved now from the pressure of her own terrifying apprehensions , she gave it complete and willing attention . 
No , charming Camilla , think not so degradingly of her whom fate , in its sole pitying interval , has cast into thy arms . '' 
She next expressed her earnestness to see Indiana , whom Camilla had told her would be at Southampton . 
I die to see , to converse with her , to catch from her lovely lips the modest wisdom with which he tells me they teem ; to read in her speaking eyes the intelligence which he assures me illumines them . '' 
She concluded with desiring her to give what orders she pleased for the coach , and the servants , and to pass the day with her friends . 
Camilla , whose own sensations were now revived to happiness , read the letter with all the sympathy it claimed , and felt her eyes fill with generous tears at the contrast of their situations ; yet she highly blamed the tenderness expressed for the unknown correspondent , though its innocence she was sure must vanquish even Edgar , since its so constant avowal proved it might be published to all mankind . 
She answered her in language nearly as affectionate , though less inflated than her own , and resolved to support her with Edgar , till her sweetness and purity should need no champions but themselves . 
She was ashamed of the species of expectation raised for Indiana , yet knew not how to interfere in Melmond 's idea of her capacity , lest it might seem unkind to represent its fallaciousness ; but she was glad to find her soft friend seemed to have a strict guardian in her brother ; and wished eagerly to communicate to Edgar a circumstance which she was sure would be so welcome to him . 
Camilla , though she had wished , upon her own account , to repress Mrs. Mittin in the morning , had been too timid for such an undertaking ; but now , in her anxiety to oblige Edgar , she gathered resolution for declining her company . 
She then found , as is generally the case with the fearful , the task less difficult than she had expected ; for Mrs. Mittin , content with a promise self-made , that the introduction should take place the next day , said she would go and help Mrs. Berlinton 's woman to unpack her lady 's things , which would make a useful friend for her in the house , for a thousand odd matters . 
The carriage of Sir Hugh was just driving off as Camilla arrived at the hotel . 
She hurried from Mrs. Berlinton 's coach , demanding which way the company was gone ; and being answered , by a passing waiter , up stairs , ran on at once , without patience or thought for asking if she should turn to the right or left ; till seeing a gentleman standing still upon the landing place , and leaning upon the bannisters , she was retreating , to desire a conductor , when she perceived it was Dr. Orkborne ; who , while the ladies were looking at accommodations , and inquiring about lodgings , in profound cogitation , and with his tablets in his hands , undisturbed by the various noises around him , and unmoved by the various spectators continually passing and repassing , was finishing a period which he had begun in the coach for his great work . 
Camilla , cheerfully greeting him , begged to know which way she should find Eugenia ; but , making her a sign not to speak to him , he wrote on . 
Accustomed to his manner , and brought up to respect whatever belonged to study , from the studious life and turn of her father , she obeyed the mute injunction , and waited quietly by his side ; till , tired of the delay , though unwilling to interrupt him , she glided softly about the passage , watching and examining if she could see any of the party , yet fearing to offend or mortify him if she called for a waiter . 
While straying about thus , as far off as she could go without losing sight of Dr. Orkborne , a door she had just passed was flung open , and she saw young Halder , whose licentious insolence had so much alarmed her in the bathing-house , stroam out , yawning , stretching , and swearing unmeaningly , but most disgustingly , at every step . 
Terrified at his sight , she went on , as she could not get to the Doctor without passing him ; but the youth , recollecting her immediately , called out : `` Ah , ha ! 
and pursued her . 
she rather screamed than said , `` pray come this way ! 
Camilla , then , too much scared to be aware she ran a far greater risk than she escaped , desperately sought refuge by opening the nearest door ; though by the sudden noises upon the stairs , and in all the adjoining passages , it seemed as if Dr. Orkborne were the only one not alarmed by her cries . 
No one , however , could approach so soon as the person of whose chamber she had burst the door ; who was an old gentleman , of a good and lively countenance , who promptly presenting himself , looked at her with some surprise , but good-humouredly asked her what she was pleased to want in his room . 
`` That gentleman , '' she cried , panting and meaning to point to Dr. Orkborne ; `` that gentleman I want , sir ! '' 
Yet when Halder , vowing he owed her an ill turn for which she should pay , would have seized her by the hand , he protected with his own arm , saying : `` Fie , boy , fie ! 
A gentleman now , forcing himself through the crowd , exclaimed : `` Miss Camilla Tyrold ! 
It was Dr. Marchmont , whom the affrighted Camilla , springing forward , could only answer in catching by the arm . 
`` Tyrold ! '' 
repeated the old gentleman ; `` Is her name Tyrold ? '' 
Sorry now to have pronounced it in this mixt company , Dr. Marchmont evaded any answer ; and , begging her to be composed , asked whither , or to whom , he might have the honour of conducting her . 
`` Almost all my family are here , '' cried she , `` but I could not make Dr. Orkborne shew me the way to them . '' 
The old gentleman then , repeating `` Tyrold ! 
why if her name is Tyrold , I 'll take care of her myself ; '' invited her into his apartment . 
Upon her answering yes , he clapped his hands with delight , and saying : `` Why then I 'll take care of you myself , if it 's at the risk of my life ! '' 
carried , rather than drew her into his room , the Doctor following . 
They soon heard the passage clear , and , without deigning to listen to the petulant revilings with which young Halder solaced his foolish rage , `` Why , my dear , '' he continued , `` why did not you tell me your name was Tyrold at once ? 
No possible disturbance could make Camilla insensible to pleasure in the praise of her uncle , or depress her spirits from joining in his eulogy ; and her attention , and brightening looks , drew a narrative from the old gentleman of the baronet 's good actions and former kindnesses , so pleasant both to the speaker and the hearer , that the one forgot he had never seen her before , and the other , the frightful adventure which occasioned their meeting now . 
Camilla , smiling , assured him she wished much to be informed , but knew not how to trouble him with the question . 
Camilla said , his name , and her uncle 's regard for him , had long been familiar to her ; and told him Clermont Lynmere was of the party to Southampton , though she knew not how to enter abruptly into an explanation of his mistake concerning the inheritance . 
Upon re-entering the passage , to the great amusement of Dr. Marchmont , and serious provocation of Camilla , they perceived Dr. Orkborne , standing precisely where he had first stationed himself ; attending no more to the general hubbub than to her particular entreaty , and as regardless of the various jolts he had received during the tumult , as of the obstruction he caused , by his inconvenient position , to the haste of the passers by . 
Miss Margland received Camilla with a civility which , since her positive and public affiance to Edgar , she thought necessary to the mistress of Beech Park ; but she looked upon Dr. Marchmont , whom she concluded to have been her advocate , with a cold ill-will , which , for Mr. Westwyn , she seasoned still more strongly by a portion of contemptuous haughtiness ; from a ready disposition to believe every stranger , not formally announced , beneath her notice . 
He recounted to him the late transaction , with reiterated exhortations to circumspection , from added doubts of the solidity , though with new praise of the attractions of Camilla . 
Mr. Westwyn , charmed to meet so many near relations of a long-valued friend , struck by the extraordinary beauty of Indiana , and by the sensible answers of the child , as he called Eugenia ; as well as caught by the united loveliness of person and of mind which he observed in Camilla , could not bring himself to retire till the dinner was upon the table : pleading , in excuse for his stay , his former intimacy with Sir Hugh . 
But Camilla , brought up to exert constantly her courage for the absent , told the waiter to call the gentleman from the head of the stairs . 
Camilla and Eugenia , desirous of a private conference , begged to remain within ; though the latter sought to take care of her absent preceptor , before she could enjoy the conversation of her sister ; and when Miss Margland and Indiana , in secret exultation at his dinnerless state , had glided , with silent simpering , past him , flew to beseech his consent to take some nourishment . 
Camilla was severely shocked . 
When Camilla related her own history , her plan of making Edgar again completely master of his own proceedings met the entire approbation of Eugenia , who , with a serious smile , said , `` Take warning by me , my dear sister ! 
Camilla , much touched , embraced her , sincerely wishing she were half as faultless as her excellent self . 
Eugenia , to whom a great and populous town was entirely new , found also , in the diversity as well as novelty of its objects , much matter for remark and contemplation ; Miss Margland experienced the utmost satisfaction in seeing , at last , some faces and some things less rustic than had been presented to her in Yorkshire or at Cleves ; and Camilla had every hope that this place , in Edgar 's own expression , would terminate every perplexity , and give local date to her life 's permanent felicity . 
Camilla had the mortification to find , upon her return home , that Edgar had made his promised visit , not only in her absence , but while Mrs. Berlinton was still with her aunt . 
That lady then communicated to Camilla the secret to which , while yet in ignorance of its existence , she now found she had been sacrificed . 
Camilla heard the account with sincere concern for them both , much heightened for young Melmond , upon finding that , by his express desire , his sister now relinquished her design of cultivating an acquaintance with Indiana , whom he had the virtue to determine to avoid , since his fortune , and even his hopes , were thus irretrievably ruined . 
They conversed together to a late hour ; and Camilla , before they parted , made the most earnest apologies for the liberty taken with her house by Mrs. Mittin : but Mrs. Berlinton , with the utmost sweetness , begged she might stay till all her business with her was settled ; smilingly adding , business alone , she was sure , could bring them together . 
Early the next morning , Camilla went to the hotel , in the carriage of Mrs. Berlinton ; eluding , though not without difficulty , the company of Mrs. Mittin . 
Camilla was much embarrassed how to parry an introduction to Mrs. Berlinton , upon which all the females built as the foundation of their Southampton prosperity ; the young ones , already informed she was the sister of Melmond , languishing to know her for his sake ; and Miss Margland , formerly acquainted with the noble family of her husband , being impatient to resume her claims in similar circles ; but an awkward beginning apology was set aside by the entrance of Edgar and Dr. Marchmont . 
The two Doctors soon sat aloof , conferring upon less familiar matters ; but Edgar only spoke in reply , and Camilla uttered not a word . 
Indiana screamed ; Miss Margland echoed her cry ; Eugenia , who had looked down from his entrance , raised her eyes with an air of interest ; Camilla was surprised out of her own concerns ; and Edgar surveyed him with an astonishment not wholly unmixt with contempt ; but the two Doctors went on with their own discourse . 
Camilla inquired if he had seen Mr. Westwyn , whom she had met with the preceding day . 
cried Camilla , now much interested in this history ; `` and can you not save him such a shock ? 
cried Camilla : `` poor Mr. Westwyn will be made so unhappy if any evil befals his son ! '' 
Camilla again began to plead the merits of the father ; but Indiana more urgently demanded the reason of the combat . 
At the words a bathing house , the blood forsook the cheeks of Camilla with sudden personal alarm ; but it mounted high into them again , upon hearing the nature of the dispute ; though yet again it sunk , and left them wholly pallid , at the brief and final conviction she was the sole cause of this duel , and upon so disgraceful a dispute . 
That Camilla should be the subject of any challenge was shocking , but of such a one he thought a dishonour ; yet to prevent , and with the least publicity , its effect , was the immediate occupation of his mind . 
was capering out of the room ; but the shame of Camilla in the disgrace , was overpowered by her terror of its consequences , and starting up , and clasping her hands , `` O cousin ! 
Camilla now , her face varying in colour twenty times in a minute , and her whole frame shaking , while her eyes were cast , conscious and timid , on the floor , approached Edgar , and saying , `` This young man 's father is my dear uncle 's friend ! 
Edgar , wholly dissolved , took her hand , pressed it to his lips , besought her , in a low voice , to dismiss her apprehensions , in the confidence of his most ardent exertions , and again kissing her hand , with the words , `` Too -- O , far too dear Camilla ! '' 
The horrors of a culprit , the most cruel as well as criminal , seemed instantly the portion of the self-condemned Camilla ; and , as he advanced with chearful kindness , to inquire after her health , his ignorance that all his happiness , through her means , was that moment at stake , pierced her with a suffering so exquisite , that she uttered a deep groan , and sunk back upon her chair . 
An instant 's recollection brought her more of fortitude , though not of comfort ; and springing up and addressing , though not looking at Mr. Westwyn , who was staring at her with astonishment and concern : `` Where , sir , '' she cried , `` is your son ? 
Mr. Westwyn , in evident consternation , walked out , Camilla herself opening the door ; but turning back in the passage , strongly said : `` If the boy has been guilty of any misbehaviour , I wo n't support him ; I do n't like misbehaviour ; it 's a bad thing ; I ca n't take to it . '' 
exclaimed the agitated Camilla , he is good , kind , generous ! 
The old gentleman 's eyes now filled with tears , and coming back , and most affectionately shaking hands with her , `` I was afraid he had misbehaved , '' he cried ; `` but he was always a good lad ; and if he has done any thing for the niece of my dear Sir Hugh Tyrold , I shall hug him to my heart ! '' 
Camilla speeding , but not hearing him , returned to her seat ; yet could not answer one question , from the horrors of her fears , and her shame of the detail of the business . 
Camilla could scarce breathe ; she stood up , her eyes and mouth open , her face pale , her hands uplifted , waiting , but not daring to demand intelligence . 
Edgar , entering into her distress with a tenderness that drove from him his own , eagerly satisfied her : `` All , '' he cried , `` is safe ; the affair has been compromised ; no duel has taken place ; and the parties have mutually pledged themselves to forget the dispute . '' 
Tears again , but no longer bitter , flowed copiously down her cheeks , while her raised eyes and clasped hands expressed the fervency of her thankfulness . 
Edgar , extremely touched , took her hand ; he wished to seize a moment so nearly awful , to enforce upon her mind every serious subject with which he most desired it to be impressed ; but sorrow was ever sacred to him ; and desiring only , at this period , to console her : `` This adventure , '' he cried , `` has now terminated so well , you must not suffer it to wound you . 
Dismiss it , sweet Camilla , from your memory ! 
cried Camilla , to whom his softness , by restoring her hope of an ultimately happy conclusion , restored strength ; `` it ought never to be dismissed from my memory ; and what I am now going to say will fix it there indelibly . '' 
`` I am sensible that I have appeared to you , '' she resumed , `` in many points reprehensible ; in some , perhaps , inexcusable . 
-- '' She blushed ; but her blush was colourless to that of Edgar . 
Resentment against Sir Sedley beat high in every vein ; while disappointment to his delicacy , in the idea of Camilla duped by any man , seemed , in one blow , to detach him from her person , by a sudden dissolution of all charm to his mind in the connection . 
Camilla saw , too late , she had been too hasty in a confession which some apologising account should have preceded ; but what her courage had begun , pride now aided her to support , and she continued . 
`` Yes , part , '' said she , with assumed firmness ; `` it would be vain to palliate what I can not disguise from myself -- I am lessened in your esteem . '' 
She could not go on ; imperious shame took possession of her voice , crimsoned her very forehead , blushed even in her eyes , demolished her strained energy , and enfeebled her genuine spirit . 
But the conscious taciturnity of Edgar recalled her exertions ; struck and afflicted by the truth she had pronounced , he could not controvert it ; he was mute ; but his look spoke keen disturbance and bitter regret . 
Edgar started ; but she would not give him time to speak ; what she had last uttered was too painful to her to dwell upon , or hear answered , and rapidly , and in an elevated manner , she went on . 
`` I here , therefore , solemnly release you from all tie , all engagement whatever with Camilla Tyrold ! 
She was then retiring . 
Edgar , confounded by a stroke so utterly and every way unexpected , neither answering nor interposing , till he saw her hand upon the lock of the door . 
In a voice then , that spoke him cut to the soul , though without attempting to stop her , `` This then , '' he cried , `` Camilla , is your final adieu . '' 
She turned round , and with a face glowing , and eyes glistening , held out to him her hand : `` I knew not if you would accept , '' she said , `` a kinder word , or I should have assured you of my unaltered regard -- and have claimed the continuance of your friendship , and even -- if your patience is not utterly exhausted , of your watchful counsel -- Farewell ! 
The door , here , was opened by Miss Margland and Indiana , and Camilla hastily snatched away the hand which Edgar , grasping with the fondness of renovated passion , secretly meant to part with no more , till a final reconciliation once again made it his own ; but compelled to yield to circumstance , he suffered it to be withdrawn ; and while she darted into the chamber of Eugenia , to hide her deep emotion from Indiana , who was tittering , and Miss Margland , who wa sneering , at the situation in which she was surprised , he abruptly took leave himself , too much impressed by this critical scene , to labour for uninteresting discourse . 
While , in the bosom of her faithful sister , Camilla reposed her feelings and her fears , alternately rejoicing and trembling in the temerity of the resolution she had exerted ; Edgar sought his not less faithful , nor honourable , but far more worldly friend , Dr. Marchmont . 
He narrated , with extreme emotion , the scene he had just had with Camilla ; asserting her possession of every species of excellence from the nobleness of her rejection , and abhorring himself for having given her a moment 's doubt of his fullest esteem . 
Not a solicitude , he declared , now remained with him , but how to appease her displeasure , satisfy her dignity , and recover her favour . 
She was another Camilla . '' 
`` Another Camilla ! '' 
Yes , another Camilla ! 
though I see your incredulity ; I see you think my comparison almost profane ; and that grace , sweetness , and beauty , waited the birth of Camilla to be made known to the world . 
This first adventure , however , is now no longer useful to you , though upon its hard remembrance was founded my former caution : but I am even myself satisfied , at present , that the earliest partiality of Camilla has been yours ; what now you have to weigh , is the strength or inadequacy of her character , for guiding that partiality to your mutual happiness . 
You may easily believe , the last of my intentions was any further essay in a lottery I had found so inauspicious ; but , while cold even to apathy , it was my inevitable chance to fall in the way of a pleasing and innocent young creature , who gave me , unsought and unwished-for , her heart . 
The lesson , however , which they inculcated , he engaged to keep always present to his consideration ; though , but for the strange affair of Sir Sedley Clarendel , he should feel confident that , in Camilla , there was not more of exterior attraction , than of solid excellence : and , with regard to their concordance of taste and humour , he had never seen her so gay , nor so lovely , as in scenes of active benevolence , or domestic life . 
As the lodgings taken by Miss Margland could not be ready till the afternoon , Camilla remained with her sister ; a sojourn which , while it consoled her with the society , and gratified her by the approbation of Eugenia , had yet another allurement ; it detained her under the same roof with Edgar ; and his manner of listening to her rejection , and his undisguised suffering before they were parted , led her to expect he might yet demand a conference before she quitted the hotel . 
`` How monstrous lucky , my dear , '' cried she , to Camilla , `` that I should find you , and your little sister , for I suppose this is she , together ! 
The note from Mrs. Berlinton contained a tender supplication for the return of Camilla , and a pressing and flattering invitation that her sister should join their little party , as the motives of honour and discretion which made her , at the request and for the sake of her brother , sacrifice her eagerness to be presented to Miss Lynmere , operated not to impede her acquaintance with Miss Eugenia . 
Camilla , therefore , negotiated the visit with Miss Margland , who , though little pleased by this separate invitation , knew not how to refuse her concurrence ; but Indiana , indignant that the sister of Melmond should not , first , have waited upon her , and solicited her friendship , privately resolved , in pique of this disrespect , to punish the brother with every rigour she could invent . 
Camilla , upon her return , found Mrs. Mittin already deeply engaged in proposing an alteration in the dress of Eugenia , which she was aiding Molly Mill to accomplish ; and so much she found to say and to do , to propose and to object to , to contrive and to alter , that , from the simplicity of the mistress , and the ignorance of the maid , the one was soon led to conclude she should have appeared improperly before Mrs. Berlinton , without such useful advice ; and the other to believe she must shortly have lost her place , now her young lady was come forth into the world , if she had not thus miraculously met with so good a friend . 
During these preparations , Camilla was summoned back to the dining-room to receive Mr. Westwyn . 
She did not hear this call with serenity . 
The danger which , however unwittingly , she had caused his son , and the shocking circumstances which were its foundation , tingled her cheeks , and confounded her wish of making acknowledgments , with an horror that such an obligation could be possible . 
The door of the dining-room was open , and as soon as her steps were heard , Mr. Westwyn came smiling forth to receive her . 
She hung back involuntarily ; but , pacing up to her , and taking her hand , `` Well , my good young lady , '' he cried , `` I have brought you my son ; but he 's no boaster , that I can assure you , for though I told him how you wanted him to come to you , and was so good as to say you were so much obliged to him , I ca n't make him own he has ever seen you in his life ; which I tell him is carrying his modesty over far ; I do n't like affectation -- I have no taste for it . '' 
Camilla , discovering by this speech , as well as by his pleased and tranquil manner , that he had escaped hearing of the intended duel , and that his son was still ignorant whose cause he had espoused , ardently wished to avert farther shame by concealing herself ; and , step by step , kept retreating back towards the room of Eugenia ; though she could not disengage her hand from the old gentleman , who , trying to draw her on , said : `` Come , my dear ! 
`` Indeed , sir , this is some mistake , '' said the young man himself , now advancing into the passage , while Camilla was stammering out an excuse from entering ; `` it 's some great mistake ; I have not the honour to know -- '' He was going to add Miss Tyrold , but he saw her at the same moment , and instantly recollecting her face , stopt , blushed , and looked amazed . 
The retreating effort of Camilla , her shame and her pride , all subsided by his view , and gave place to the more generous feelings of gratitude for his intuitive good opinion , and emotion for the risk he had run in her defence : and with an expression of captivating sweetness in her eyes and manner , `` That you did not know me , '' she cried , `` makes the peculiarity of your goodness , which , indeed , I am more sensible to than I can express . '' 
Equally at a loss how either to avow or evade what had passed in the presence of Camilla , young Westwyn began a stammering and awkward apology ; but Camilla , feeling doubly his forbearance , said : `` Silence may in you be delicate -- but in me it would be graceless . '' 
Then , turning from him to old Mr. Westwyn , `` you may be proud , sir , '' she cried , `` of your son ! 
`` You are much too good , '' cried Camilla , in an accent of tender pleasure , the result of grateful joy , that she had not been the means of destroying the paternal happiness of so fond a father , joined to the dreadful certainty how narrowly she had escaped that misery ; `` you are much too good , and I blush even to thank you , when I think -- '' What she meant to add was in a moment forgotten , and that she blushed ceased to be metaphorical , when now , as they all three entered the dining-room together , the first object that met her eyes was Edgar . 
Their eyes met not again ; delighted and conscious , she turned hers hastily away . 
He comes , thought she , to reclaim me ! 
Edgar had seen , by chance , the Westwyns pass to the room of the Cleves party , and felt the most ardent desire to know if they would meet with Camilla , and what would be her reception of her young champion , whose sword , with extreme trouble , he had himself that morning sheathed , and whose gallantry he attributed to a vehement , however sudden passion . 
Miss Margland and Indiana , who were examining some goods sent by Mrs. Mittin , had received them all four without much mark of civility ; and Mr. Westwyn immediately desired Camilla to be sent for , and kept upon the watch , till her step made him hasten out to meet her . 
Edgar could not hear unmoved the dialogue which ensued ; he imagined an amiable rival was suddenly springing up in young Westwyn , at the very moment of his own dismission , which he now even thought possible this incipient conquest had urged ; and when Camilla , walking between the father and the son , with looks of softest sensibility , came into the room , he thought he had never seen her so lovely , and that her most bewitching smiles were purposely lavished for their captivation . 
With this idea , he found it impossible to speak to her ; their situation , indeed , was too critical for any common address , and when he saw that she turned from him , he attempted to converse with the other ladies upon their purchases ; and Camilla , left to her two new beaux , had the unavoidable appearance of being engrossed by them , though the sight of Edgar instantly robbed them of all her real attention . 
Ignorant of the mischief he had done her , and not even recollecting to have seen him , Camilla made one to look at his goods ; but Edgar , to whom his audacious assertions were immediately brought back by his sight , would have made him feel the effects of his resentment , had not his passion for Camilla been of so solid , as well as warm a texture , as to induce him to prefer guarding her delicacy , to any possible display he could make of his feelings to others , or even to herself . 
Mr. Girt , in the midst of his exhibition of memorandum books , smelling bottles , tooth-pick cases , and pocket mirrours ; with washes to immortalize the skin , powders becoming to all countenances , and pomatums to give natural tresses to old age , suddenly recollected Camilla . 
The gross mistake he had made he had already discovered , by having dodged her to the house of Mrs. Berlinton ; but all alarm at it had ceased , by finding , through a visit made to his shop by Mrs. Mittin , that she was uninformed he had propagated it . 
Not gifted with the discernment to see in the air and manner of Camilla her entire , though unassuming superiority to her accidental associate , he concluded them both to be relations of some of the upper domestics ; and with a look and tone descending from the most profound adulation , with which he was presenting his various articles to Miss Margland and Indiana , into a familiarity the most facetious , `` O dear , ma'am , '' he cried , `` I did not see you at first ; I hope t ` other lady 's well that 's been so kind as to recommend me ? 
while Camilla , crimsoned by the familiar assurance with which she had been addressed , retired to a window . 
Camilla felt her eyes suffuse with tears ; and Edgar , for the first time in his life , found himself visited by the baleful passion of envy . 
Miss Margland and Indiana now burst forth with a torrent of wonders , conjectures , and questions ; but the full heart of Camilla denied her speech , and the carriage of Mrs. Berlinton being already at the door , she called upon Eugenia , and followed , perforce , by Mrs. Mittin , left the hotel . 
`` Dr. Marchmont , '' said the former , in a tone of assumed moderation , `` I have lost Camilla ! 
This young man steps forward so gallantly , so ingenuously , nay so amiably , that the contrast -- chill , severe , and repulsive -- must render me -- in this detestable state -- insupportable to all her feelings . 
By this test , then , prove your Camilla . 
Her champion seems evidently her admirer , and his father her adorer . 
Her late engagement with you may possibly not reach them ; or reaching but with its dissolution , serve only to render them more eager . '' 
`` Clear her , then , at least , '' said he , with a solemnity almost reproachful ; `` clear her , at least , of every mercenary charge ! 
If I lose her -- '' he gasped for breath -- `` she will not , you find , be bought from me ! 
and pique , anger , injustice , nay inconstancy , all are less debasing than the sordid corruption of which you suspected her . '' 
`` This does not , necessarily , prove her disinterested ; she is too young , yet , to know herself the value she may hereafter set upon wealth . 
It remains , therefore , now to be tried , if Beech Park , and its master united , can vie with the bright and intoxicating incense of a life voluntarily risked , in support -- not of her fair fame , that was unknown to its defender -- but simply of the fair countenance which seemed its pledge . '' 
Edgar , heartless and sad , attempted no further argument ; he thought the Doctor prejudiced against the merits of Camilla ; yet it appeared , even to himself , that her whole conduct , from the short period of his open avowal , had seemed a wilful series of opposition to his requests and opinions . 
And while terror for surrounding dangers gave weight to his disapprobation of her visiting Southampton , with a lady she knew him to think more attractive than safe or respectable , her sufferance of the vulgar and forward Mrs. Mittin , with whom again he saw her quit the hotel , was yet more offensive , since he could conceive for it no other inducement than a careless , if not determined humour , to indulge every impulse , in equal contempt of his counsel , and her own reflection . 
All blame , however , of Camilla , was short of his self-dissatisfaction , in the distance imposed upon him by uncertainty , and the coldness dictated by discretion . 
At a period so sensitive , when her spirit was alarmed , and her delicacy was wounded , that a stranger should start forward , to vindicate her innocence , and chastise its detractors , was singular , was unfortunate , was nearly intolerable ; and he thought he could with thankfulness , have renounced half his fortune , to have been himself the sole protector of Camilla . 
-- From the height of happiest expectation , raised by the quick return of Edgar , Camilla was sunk into the lowest despondence , by the abortive conclusion of the meeting : while Eugenia was absorbed in mute joy , and wrapt expectation . 
Mrs. Berlinton , though somewhat struck at first sight of Eugenia with her strange contrast to Camilla , received her with all the distinguishing kindness due to the sister of her friend . 
She had the poems of Collins in her hand ; and , at their joint desire , instead of putting the book aside , read aloud , and with tenderest accent , one of his most plaintive odes . 
The ode , to her great delight , lasted till the dinner was announced , when Melmond appeared : but her prepossession could alone give any charm to his sight : he could barely recollect that he had seen her , or even Camilla before ; he had conversed with neither ; his eyes had been devoted to Indiana , and the despondence which had become his portion since the news of the marriage of his aunt , seemed but rendered the more peculiarly bitter , by this intimate connection with the family of an object so adored . 
The name , as Camilla knew it not , she had heard unmoved ; but the sight of a person who had so largely contributed to shock and terrify her in the bathing-house , struck her with horror . 
Brought up with the respect of other times , she had risen at his entrance ; but she turned suddenly round upon recollecting him , and instead of the courtsie she intended making , involuntarily moved away her chair from the part of the room to which he was advancing . 
Miss Tyrold , my dear , I hope you 've spoke to the gentleman ? '' 
Lord Valhurst with difficulty recollected Mrs. Mittin , from the very cursory view his otherwise occupied eyes had taken of her ; but when the concluding words made him look at Camilla , whose youth and beauty were not so liable to be forgotten , he knew at once her associate , and was aware of the meaning of her harangue . 
Sorry to appear before his fair kinswoman to any disadvantage , though by no means displeased at an opportunity of again seeing a young creature he had thought so charming , he began an apology to Mrs. Mittin , while his eyes were fixed upon Camilla , vindicating himself from every intention that was not respectful , and hoping she did not so much injure as to mistake him . 
His lordship courteously accepted the apology ; and advanced to Camilla , to express his hopes she had not participated in such injurious suspicions . 
She made no answer , and Mrs. Berlinton inquired what all this meant . 
This was a declaration Camilla could not dispute , and even felt inclined to credit , from the solemnity with which it was uttered ; but to discuss it was every was impossible , and therefore , coldly bowing her head , she seemed acquiescent . 
Lord Valhurst now pretty equally divided his attention between these two beautiful young women ; looking at and complimenting them alternately , till a servant came in and said , `` The two Mr. Westwyns desire to see Miss Tyrold . '' 
Camilla did not wish to avoid persons to whom she was so much obliged , but begged she might receive them in the next apartment , that Mrs. Berlinton might not be disturbed . 
But -- shall we not detain Miss Tyrold too long from her friends ? '' 
Camilla , with mingled gratitude and shame , offered her acknowledgments ; though what she heard astonished , if possible , even more than it mortified her . 
How in the world , thought she , can I have provoked this slander ? 
She knew not how little provocation is necessary for calumny ; nor how regularly the common herd , where appearances admit two interpretations , decide for the worst . 
Girt designed her neither evil nor good ; but not knowing who nor what she was , simply filled up the doubts in his own mind , by the bias of his own character . 
Confused as much as herself , Henry proposed immediately to retire ; and , as Camilla did not invite them to stay , Mr. Westwyn could not refuse his consent : though , sending his son out first , he stopt to say , in a low voice , `` What do you think of Hal , my dear young lady ? 
At night , Mrs. Mittin , following Camilla to her chamber , said , `` See here , my dear ! 
She demanded an explanation ; and Mrs. Mittin said , that , having taken notice that her cloak looked very mean by the side of Mrs. Berlinton 's , when she compared them together , she resolved upon surprising her with a new one as quick as possible . 
Camilla , seeing the materials were all infinitely richer than any she had been accustomed to wear , was extremely chagrined by such officiousness , and gravely inquired how much this would add to her debts . 
Camilla , who had determined to avoid even the shadow of a debt , and to forbear every possible expence till she had not one remaining , was now not merely vexed , but angry . 
Mrs. Mittin , however , upon whose feelings that most troublesome of all qualities to its possessors , delicacy , never obtruded , went on , extolling her own performance , and praising her own good nature , without discovering that either were impertinent ; and , so far from conceiving it possible they could be unwelcome , that she attributed the concern of Camilla to modesty , on account of her trouble ; and mistook her displeasure for distress , what she could do for her in return . 
And , indeed , when she finished her double panegyric upon the cloak and its maker , with confessing she had set up the whole night , in order to get it done , Camilla considered herself as too much obliged to her intention , to reproach any further its want of judgment ; and concluded by merely intreating she would change her note , pay for it immediately , discharge her other accounts with all speed , and make no future purchase for her whatsoever . 
Camilla , therefore , being entitled to a ticket , and having brought with her whatever was unspoilt of her Tunbridge apparel , thought this the most seasonable opportunity she could take for again seeing Edgar , who , in their present delicate situation , would no longer , probably , think it right to inquire for her at a stranger 's . 
Mrs. Berlinton had not purposed appearing in public , till she had formed her own party ; but an irrepressible curiosity to see Indiana induced her to accompany Camilla , with no other attendant than Lord Valhurst . 
Mrs. Mittin sought vainly to be of the party ; Mrs. Berlinton , though permitting her stay in her house , and treating her with constant civility , had no idea of including her in her own society , which she aimed to have always distinguished by either rank , talents , or admirers : and Camilla , who now felt her integrity involved in her economy , was firm against every hint for assisting her with a ticket . 
Camilla was too completely engrossed by her heart , to think of her appearance . 
He scarce knew upon which most to lavish his compliments , or to regale his eyes , and turned , half expiring with extasy , from the soft charms of his kinswoman , with something , he thought , resembling animation , to the more quickening influence of her bright-eyed companion . 
But the effect produced upon the company at large by the radiant beauty of Indiana , who had entered some time , was still more striking than any immediate powers from all the bewitching graces of Mrs. Berlinton , and all the intelligent loveliness of Camilla . 
Her faultless face , her perfect form , raised wonder in one sex , and overpowered envy in the other . 
The men looked at her , as at something almost too celestial for their devoirs ; the women , even the most charming amongst them , saw themselves distanced from all pretensions to rivalry . 
She was followed , but not approached ; gazed at , as if a statue , and inquired after , rather as a prodigy than a mortal . 
This awful homage spread not , however , to her party ; the watchful but disdainful eyes of Miss Margland obtained for herself , even with usury , all the haughty contempt they bestowed upon others : Eugenia was pronounced to be a foil , brought merely in ridicule : and Dr. Orkborne , whom Miss Margland , though detesting , forced into the set , in preference to being without a man , to hand them from the carriage , and to call it for them at night , had a look so forlorn and distressed , while obliged to parade with them up and down the room , that he seemed rather a prisoner than an esquire , and more to require a guardian to prevent his escaping himself , than to serve for one in securing his young charges from any attack . 
Edgar had waited impatiently the entrance of Camilla . 
His momentary sight of Lord Valhurst , at the bathing-room , did not bring him to his remembrance in his present more shewy apparel , and he was gratified to see only an old beau in her immediate suite . 
He did not deem it proper , as they were now circumstanced , to ask her to dance ; but he quietly approached and bowed to her , and addressed some civil inquiries to Mrs. Berlinton . 
Edgar was so much pleased with the perfectly natural character of this old gentleman , that , though alarmed at his intended call upon the favour of Sir Hugh , through the influence of Camilla , for Henry , he would yet have remained in his society , had he not been driven from it by the junction of young Lynmere , whose shallow insolence he thought insupportable . 
Mrs. Berlinton , who declined dancing , had arrived so late , that when Henry led back Camilla , the company was summoned to the tea-table . 
She was languishing for an introduction to Indiana , the absence of Melmond obviating all present objection to their meeting ; she therefore gave Camilla the welcome task to propose that the two parties should unite . 
Lord Valhurst adhered tenaciously to his kinswoman ; and the three gentlemen who had danced the last dances with Indiana , Eugenia , and Camilla , asserted the privilege of attending their partners at the tea-table . 
`` Really , sir , '' said Miss Margland , between whom and Camilla Lynmere had squeezed himself a place , `` you do n't use much ceremony ! '' 
Lord Valhurst was ambitious to suffice as guardian to both his fair charges ; but Henry , when prohibited from stopping the affray , offered his service to Camilla , who could not refuse them ; and Mrs. Berlinton , active and impatient , flew on foremost ; with more speed than his lordship could follow , or even keep in sight . 
Edgar , who had hurried to Camilla at the first tumult , was stung to the heart to see who handed her away ; and , forcing a passage , followed , till Henry , the envied Henry , deposited her in the carriage of Mrs. Berlinton . 
Camilla now thought herself safe in harbour ; the storms all over , the dangers all past , and but a light gale or two wanting to make good her landing on the bosom of permanent repose . 
This gale , this propitious gale , she thought ready to blow at her call ; for she deemed it no other than the breath of jealousy . 
She had seen Edgar , though he knew her to be protected , follow her to the coach , and she had seen , by the light afforded from the lamps of the carriage , that her safety from the crowd and tumult was not the sole object of his watchfulness , since though that , at the instant she turned round , was obviously secure , his countenance exhibited the strongest marks of disturbance . 
The secret spring , therefore , she now thought , that was to re-unite them , was in her own possession . 
Upon all these occasions , young Westwyn , though wholly unsought , and even unthought of by Camilla , was instinctively and incautiously the most alert to second her plan ; he was her first partner when she danced , her constant attendant when she walked , and always in wait to converse with her when she was seated ; while , not purposing to engage him , she perceived not his fast growing regard , and intending to be open to all alike , observed not the thwarting effect to her design of this peculiar assiduity . 
Bewitched with Camilla , he carried his son to her wherever she appeared , and said aloud to every body but herself : `` If the boy and girl like one another , they shall have one another ; and I wo n't inquire what she 's worth ; for she thinks so well of my son , that I 'd rather he 'd have her than an empress . 
This new experiment of Camilla , like every other deduced from false reasoning , and formed upon false principles , was flattering in its promise , pernicious in its progress , and abortive in its performance . 
cried the melancholy Edgar , `` in either case , she is no more the artless Camilla I first adored ! 
While Camilla , in gay ignorance of danger , and awake only to hope , pursued her new course , Eugenia had the infinite delight of improving daily and even hourly in the good graces of Mrs. Berlinton ; who soon discovered how wide from justice to that excellent young creature was all judgment that could be formed from her appearance . 
She found that she was as elegant in her taste for letters as herself , and far more deeply cultivated in their knowledge ; that her manners were gentle , her sentiments were elevated , yet that her mind was humble ; the same authors delighted and the same passages struck them ; they met every morning ; they thought every morning too short , and their friendship , in a very few days , knit by so many bands of sympathy , was as fully established as that which already Mrs. Berlinton had formed with Camilla . 
Mr. Ulst , of course included in the invitation , made the removal with alacrity , not for the pleasure it procured his wife , but for the money it saved himself ; and Mrs. Mittin voluntarily resigned to them the apartment she had chosen for her own , by way of a little peace-offering for her undesired length of stay ; for still , though incessantly Camilla inquired for her account , she had received no answer from the creditors , and was obliged to wait for another and another post . 
Camilla , who was in total ignorance of the whole of this business , received , during the dinner , an incoherent note from her sister , conjuring that she would search immediately , but privately , in her own chamber , in the dressing-room of Mrs. Berlinton , in the hall , and upon the stairs , for a paper in her hand-writing , which she had somewhere lost , but which she besought her , by all that she held dear , not to read when she found ; protesting she should shut herself up for ever from the whole world , if a syllable of what she had written on that paper were read by a human being . 
Camilla could not endure to keep her sister a moment in this suspensive state , and made an excuse for quitting the table that she might instantly seek the manuscript . 
Melmond and Mrs. Berlinton both conjectured the contents of the billet , and felt much for the modest and timid Eugenia ; but Mrs. Mittin could not confine herself to silent suggestion ; she rose also , and running after Camilla , said : `` My dear Miss , has your sister sent to you to look for any thing ? '' 
Camilla asked the meaning of her inquiry ; and she then owned she had picked up , from the stairs , a sort of love letter , in which Miss Eugenia had wrote couplets upon Mr. Melmond . 
Inexpressibly astonished , Camilla demanded their restoration ; this soon produced a complete explanation , and while , with equal surprise and concern , she learnt the secret of Eugenia , and its discovery to its object , she could not but respect and honour all she gathered from Mrs. Berlinton of the behaviour of her brother upon the detection ; and his equal freedom from presumptuous vanity , or mercenary projects , induced her to believe her sister 's choice , though wholly new to her , was well founded ; and that if he could conquer his early propensity for Indiana , he seemed , of all the characters she knew , Edgar alone and always excepted , the most peculiarly formed for the happiness of Eugenia . 
Scarce could she bear to be broken in upon even by Camilla , who tenderly hastened to console her . 
She hid her blushing conscious face , and protested she would inhabit only her own apartment for the rest of her life . 
Camilla devoted the afternoon to her agitated but enraptured sister , who desired her secret might spread no further , till the will of her father and uncle should decide its fate ; but the loquacious Mrs. Mittin , having some cheap ribands and fine edgings to recommend to Miss Margland and Indiana , could by no means refrain from informing them , at the same time , of the discovered manuscript . 
Camilla left her sister to accompany Mrs. Berlinton to the Rooms ; no other mode remaining for seeing Edgar , who , since her rejection , had held back from repeating his attempt of visiting Mrs. Berlinton . 
Accident , want of due consideration , and sudden recollection , in an agitated moment , of the worldly doctrine of Mrs. Arlbery , had led Camilla , once more , into the semblance of a character , which , without thinking of , she was acting . 
Born simple and ingenuous , and bred to hold in horror every species of art , all idea of coquetry was foreign to her meaning , though an untoward contrariety of circumstances , playing upon feelings too potent for deliberations , had eluded her into a conduct as mischievous in its effects , and as wide from artlessness in its appearance , as if she had been brought up and nourished in fashionable egotism . 
Such , however , was not Camilla : her every propensity was pure , and , when reflection came to her aid , her conduct was as exemplary as her wishes . 
Camilla now perceived her own error : the perseverance of young Westwyn not merely startled , but appalled her . 
His character , unassuming , though spirited , was marked by a general decency and propriety of demeanour , that would not presumptuously brave distancing ; and awakened her , therefore , to a review of her own conduct , as it related , or as it might seem , to himself . 
And here , not all the guiltlessness of her intentions could exonerate her from blame with that finely scrutinizing monitor to which Heaven , in pity to those evil propensities that law can not touch , nor society reclaim , has devolved its earthly jurisdiction in the human breast . 
With her hopes she could play , with her wishes she could trifle , her intentions she could defend , her designs she could relinquish -- but with her conscience she could not combat . 
It pointed beyond the present moment ; it took her back to her imprudence with Sir Sedley Clarendel , which should have taught her more circumspection ; and it carried her on to the disappointment of Henry and his father , whom while heedlessly she had won , though without out the most remote view to beguile , she might seem artfully to have caught , for the wanton vanity of rejecting . 
While advice and retrospection were thus alike oppressive in accusation , her pensive air and withdrawn smiles proved but more endearing to young Westwyn , whose internal interpretation was so little adapted to render them formidable , that his assiduities were but more tender , and allowed her no repose . 
Edgar , who with the most suffering suspense , observed her unusual seriousness , and its effect upon Henry , drew from it , with the customary ingenuity of sensitive minds to torment themselves , the same inference for his causeless torture , as proved to his rival a delusive blessing . 
He saw Camilla not merely turn wholly away from his rival , but enter into conversation , and give , apparently , her whole attention to Lord Valhurst , who , it was palpable , only spoke to her of her charms , which , alternately with those of Mrs. Berlinton , he devoted his whole time to worshipping . 
Camilla by this action , meant simply to take the quickest road she saw in her power to shew young Westwyn his mistake . 
Lord Valhurst she held nearly in aversion ; for , though his vindication of his upright motives at the bathing-house , joined to her indifference in considering him either guilty or innocent , made her conclude he might be blameless in that transaction , his perpetual compliments , enforced by staring eyes and tender glances , wearied and disgusted her . 
But he was always by her side , when not in the same position with Mrs. Berlinton ; and while his readiness to engage her made this her easiest expedient , his time of life persuaded her it was the safest . 
The pleasure with which he found , at last , that incense received , which hitherto had been slighted , gave new zest to an adulation which , while Camilla endared merely to shew her coldness to young Westwyn , seemed to Edgar to be offered with a gross presumption o welcome , that must result from an opinion it was addressed to a confirmed coquette . 
Offended in his inmost soul by this idea , he scarce desired to know if she were now stimulated most by a wish to torment Henry , or himself , or only by the general pleasure she found in this new mode of amusement . 
Dr. Marchmont was silent , and they walked out of the room together ; leaving the deceived Camilla persuaded he was so indifferent with regard to the old peer , that all her influence was lost , and all her late exertions were thrown away , by one evening 's remissness in exciting his fears of a young rival . 
The conclusion of the letter of Mr. Tyrold gave to Camilla as much pain as every other part of it gave to Eugenia pleasure : it was an earnest and parentally tender prayer , that the alliance with Melmond , should his worth appear such as to authorise its taking place , might prove the counterpart to the happiness so sweetly promised from that of her sister with Edgar . 
While Camilla sighed to consider how wide from the certainty with which he mentioned it was such an event , she blushed that he should thus be uninformed of her insecurity : but while a reconciliation was not more her hope than her expectation with every rising sun , she could not endure to break his repose with the knowledge of a suspense she thought as disgraceful as it was unhappy . 
Yet her present scheme to accelerate its termination , became difficult even of trial . 
The obviously serious regard of Henry was a continual reproach to her ; and the undisguised approbation of his father was equally painful . 
Yet she could now only escape them by turning to some other , and that other was necessarily Lord Valhurst , whose close siege to her notice forced off every assailant but himself . 
This the deluded Camilla thought an expedient the most innoxious ; and gave to him so much of her time , that his susceptibility to the charms of youth and beauty was put to a trial beyond his fortitude ; and , in a very few days , notwithstanding their disproportion in age , his embarrassed though large estates , and the little or no fortune which she had in view , he determined to marry her : for when a man of rank and riches resolves to propose himself to a woman who has neither , he conceives his acceptance not a matter of doubt . 
In any other society , his admiration of Camilla might easily , like what he had already experienced and forgotten for thousands of her sex , have escaped so grave or decided a tendency ; but in Mrs. Berlinton he saw so much of youth and beauty bestowed upon a man whom he knew to be his own senior in age , that the idea of a handsome young wife was perpetually present to him . 
Whenever Camilla was so much engaged with others that it was impossible to approach her , he thought himself capable of uttering an eternal adieu ; but when , by any opening , he saw where and how he might address her , his feet refused to move , his tongue became parched , and his pleading heart seemed exclaiming : O , not to-night ! 
yet , yet , another day , ere Camilla is parted with for ever ! 
But suddenly , soon after , Camilla ceased to appear . 
At the rooms , at the plays , at the balls , and at the private assemblies , Edgar looked for her in vain . 
Her old adulator , also , vanished from public places , while her young admirer and his father hovered about in them as usual , but spiritless , comfortless , and as if in the same search as himself . 
That Camilla was not caught by this ruinous fascination , was not simply the effect of necessity . 
Had the state of her finances been as flourishing as it was decayed , she would have been equally steady in this forbearance : her reason was fair , though her feelings frequently chaced it from the field . 
She looked on , therefore , with safety , though not wholly with indifference ; she had too much fancy not to be amused by the spirit of the business , and was too animated not to take part in the successive hopes and fears of the several competitors ; but though her quick sensations prompted a readiness , like that of Mrs. Berlinton , to enter warmly into all that was presented to her , the resemblance went no further ; what she was once convinced was wrong she was incapable of practising . 
In a very few days , however , while the blush of shame died her beautiful cheeks , she inquired if Camilla could lend her a a little ready money . 
A blush of no less unpleasant feelings overspread the face of her fair guest , in being compelled to own she had none to lend ; but she eagerly promised to procure some from Mrs. Mittin , who had a note in her hand to exchange for the payment of some small debts contracted at Tunbridge . 
Glaring imprudence in others is a lesson even to the most unthinking ; Camilla , when she found that Mrs. Berlinton had lost every guinea she could command , ventured to renew still more forcibly her exhortations against the Faro table ; but Mrs. Berlinton , notwithstanding she possessed an excellent capacity , was so little fortified with any practical tenets either of religion or morality , that where sentiment did not take the part of what was right , she had no preservative against what was wrong . 
Against this perilous mode of proceeding Camilla was not the only warner . 
Camilla was much relieved when she found this officious person was no longer retained solely upon her account ; but still she could neither obtain her bills , no answers ever arriving , nor the money for her twenty pound note , Mrs. Mittin always evading to deliver it , and asserting she was sure somebody would come in the stage the next day for the payment she had promised ; and when Camilla wanted cash for any of the very few articles she now allowed herself to think indispensable , instead of restoring it into her hands , she flew out herself to purchase the goods that were required , and always brought them home with assurances they were cheaper than the shopkeepers would let her have them for herself . 
Camilla resisted all incitements to new dress and new ornaments , with a fortitude which must not be judged by the aged , nor the retired , who weighing only the frivolity of what she withstood , are not qualified to appreciate the merit of this sort of resignation ; the young , the gay , the new in life , who know that , amongst minor calamities , none are more alarming to the juvenile breast than the fear of not appearing initiated in the reigning modes , can alone do justice to the present philosophy of Camilla , in seeing that all she wore , by the quick changes of fashion , seemed already out of date ; in refusing to look at the perpetual diversity of apparel daily brought , by various dress modellers , for the approbation of Mrs. Berlinton , and in seeing that lady always newly , brightly , and in a distinguished manner attired , yet appearing by her side in exactly the same array that she had constantly worn at Tunbridge . 
Nor was Camilla indifferent to this contrast ; but she submitted to it as the duty of her present involved situation , which exacted from her every privation , in preference to bestowing upon any new expence the only sum she could command towards clearing what was past . 
thought she , how long , in the careful and rare wear of Etherington and Cleves , all this would have served me ; while here , in this daily use , a fortnight is scarce passed , yet all is spoilt and destroyed . 
Camilla had now , with consuming regret , passed several days without one sight of Edgar . 
Clear lawn and lilac plumes and ornaments she had none ; how to go she knew not ; yet Edgar she was sure would be there ; how to stay away she knew less . 
This was a severe moment to her courage ; she felt it faultering , and putting down the card of invitation , without the force of desiring Mrs. Berlinton to make her excuse , repaired to her own room , terrified by the preponderance of her wishes to a consent which she knew her situation rendered unwarrantable . 
At this ball , and this supper , Camilla painted Edgar completely restored to her ; she was certain he would dance with her ; she was sure he would sit by no one else during the repast ; the many days since they had met would endear to him every moment they could now spend together , and her active imagination soon worked up scenes so important from this evening , that she next persuaded her belief that all chance of reconciliation hung wholly upon the meeting it offered . 
Impelled by this notion , yet wavering , dissatisfied , and uncomfortable , she summoned Mrs. Mittin , and intreated she would make such inquiries concerning the value of the ball-dress uniform , as would enable her to estimate its entire expence . 
Her hours passed now in extreme disquietude ; for while all her hopes centred in the approaching festival , the estimate which was to determine her power of enjoying it was by no means easy to procure . 
Camilla examined and admired it , asked what it was a yard , and how much would suffice for the dress . 
Camilla was amazed she could so far have misunderstood her as to bring it upon such terms , and begged she would carry it back . 
Camilla protested she would not , at this time , pay ten shillings a-yard for any gown in the world . 
Mrs. Mittin , who had flattered herself that the handkerchief and apron , at least , if not one of the gowns , would have fallen to her share , was much discomposed by this unexpected declaration ; and disappointed , murmuring , and conceiving her the most avaricious of mortals , was forced away ; leaving Camilla in complete despondence of any power to effect her wish with propriety . 
Camilla felt petrified . 
No possible pleasure or desire could urge her , deliberately , to what she deemed an extravagance ; yet here , in one moment , she was despoiled of three parts of all she possessed , either for her own use , or towards the restitution of her just debts with others . 
Observing her distress , though with more displeasure than pity , from believing it founded in the most extraordinary covetousness , Mrs. Mittin proposed measuring the piece in three , and disposing of the two gowns she did not want to Mrs. Berlinton , or her sister and Miss Lynmere . 
Camilla was a little revived ; but the respite of difficulty was short ; upon opening the piece , it was found damaged ; and after the first few yards , which Mrs. Mittin had sedulously examined , not a breadth had escaped some rent , fray , or mischief . 
Camilla scarce breathed from impatience for the important moment , which was preceded by an invitation to all the company , to take a sail on the Southampton water on the morning of the entertainment . 
The ball dress of Camilla was not yet ready , when she set out for the amusement of the morning . 
Among these , the first to press forward were the two Westwyns , each enraptured to again see Camilla ; and the most successful in obtaining notice was lord Valhurst , with whom Camilla still thought it prudent , however irksome , to discourse , rather than receive again the assiduities of Henry : but her mind , far from them all , was hovering on the edge of the shore , where Edgar was walking . 
Edgar , for some time past , had joined the utmost uneasiness what conduct to pursue with regard to the friends of Camilla , to the heart-rending decision of parting from her for ever . 
But in what way could he address that gentleman , without first knowing if Camilla had acquainted him with the step she had taken ? 
Finding so near an alliance likely to take place with the brother , he gave up his plan of remonstrating against the sister , except in private counsel to Camilla ; for which , and for uttering his fearful adieu , he was now waiting but to speak to her unobserved . 
Edgar , when he had spoken to the group to which the honours of the day belonged , made up to Camilla , gravely enquired after her health ; and then placed himself as near to her as he was able , in the hope of conferring with her when the company began to move . 
Her spirits now rose , and her prospects re-opened to their wished termination . 
All her regret was for Henry , who saw her present avoidance , and bemoaned her long absence , with a sadness that reproached and afflicted her . 
Camilla , depending upon the assistance of Edgar , in passing through the boat to the yacht , so obviously turned from Henry , that he lost all courage for persevering in addressing her , and was even , though most unwillingly , retiring from a vicinity in which he seemed palpably obtrusive , had not his father insisted upon detaining him , whispering , `` Be of good heart , Hal ! 
Edgar kept equally near her , with a design that was the counterpart of her own wish , of offering her his hand when it was her turn to enter the boat ; but they were both disappointed , the Peer , not waiting that rotation , presented her his arm as soon as lady Pervil had led the way . 
There was no redress , though Camilla was as much provoked as either of the young rivals . 
Lord Valhurst did not long exult in his victory ; the unsteadiness of the boat made him rather want help for himself , than find force to bestow it upon another , and , upon mounting at the helm to pass her on to the yacht , he tottered , his foot flipt , and he must have sunk between the two vessels , had not a waterman caught him up , and dragged him into the yacht , with no further misfortune than a bruised shin , wet legs and feet , and a deplorably rueful countenance , from mingled fright and mortification . 
Edgar , not wholly unsuspicious such an accident might happen , was darting into the boat to snatch Camilla from its participation , when he felt himself forcibly pulled back , and saw , at the same moment , Henry , who had also started forward , but whom nothing had retarded , anticipate his purpose , and aid her into the yacht . 
The passing of other ladies , with their esquires , prevented him , who had no lady he wished to conduct , from making his way yet into the yacht ; and the honest old gentleman , detained by the same reason , entered promptly into the history of the present situation of his son with regard to Camilla ; relating , frankly , that he thought her the sweetest girl in the world , except that she did not know her own mind ; for she had been so pleased with his son first of all , that he really thought he should oblige her by making it a match : `` which I could not , '' added he , `` have the heart to refuse to a girl that gave the boy such a good character . 
Edgar had never yet felt such serious displeasure against Camilla , as seized him upon this artless narrative . 
Edgar was ill-disposed to conversation , and intent only upon Camilla , who was now seated between Mrs. Berlinton and Eugenia , and occupied by the fine prospects every where open to her ; yet he explained the error of Clermont 's being heir , as well as nephew , to Sir Hugh ; at which the old gentleman , almost jumping with surprize and joy , said : `` Why , then who 's to pay all his debts at Leipsic ? 
Camilla , to whom the beauties of nature had mental , as well as visual charms , from the blessings , as well as pleasure , she had from childhood been instructed to consider as surrounding them , was so enchanted by the delicious scenery every way courting her eyes , the transparent brightness of the noble piece of water upon which she was sailing , the richness and verdure of its banks , the still and gently gliding motion of the vessel , the clearness of the heavens , and the serenity of the air , that all her cares , for a while , would have been lost in admiring contemplation , had she not painfully seen the eternal watching of Henry for her notice , and gathered from the expression of his eyes , his intended expostulation . 
The self-reproach with which she felt how ill she could make her defence , joined to a sincere and generous wish to spare him the humiliation of a rejection , made her seek so to engage herself , as to prevent the possibility of his uttering two sentences following . 
The fear of being too late for the evening 's arrangements , made lord Pervil , after a two hours sail , give orders for veering about : the ladies were advised to go into the cabin during this evolution , and Camilla was amongst those who most readily complied , for the novelty of viewing what she had not yet seen . 
But when , with the rest , she was returning to the deck , lord Valhurst , who had just descended , entreated her to stop one moment . 
Not at all conjecturing his reason , she knew not how to refuse , but innocently begged him to speak quick , as she was in haste , not to lose any of the beautiful landscapes they were passing . 
Amazed beyond all measure , she stared at him a moment in silence , and then , confirmed by his looks that he was serious , would have left the cabin with precipitance : but , preventing her from passing ; `` Charming Miss Tyrold ! '' 
To Camilla this offer appeared as little delicate , as its maker was attractive ; yet she thought herself indebted for its general purport , and , as soon as her astonishment allowed her , gracefully thanked him for the honour of his good opinion , but entreated him to make no application to her friends , as it would not be in her power to concur in their consent . 
Little imagining so serious a scene to be passing as the few words he now gathered gave him to understand , his perplexity at her not returning with the other ladies , made him suggest this to be a favourable moment to seize for following her himself , and demanding the sought , though dreaded conference . 
No liveliness of temper had injured in Camilla the real modesty of her character . 
Is this , thought he , Camilla ? 
Has she wilfully fascinated this old man seriously to win him , and has she won him but to triumph in the vanity of her conquest ? 
How is her delicacy perverted ! 
what is become of her sensibility ? 
Is this the artless Camilla ? 
modest as she was gay , docile as she was spirited , gentle as she was intelligent ? 
Camilla , little suspicious of this construction , thought it would be now equally wrong to speak any more with either Henry or lord Valhurst , and talked with all others indiscriminately , changing her object with almost every speech . 
A moment 's reflection would have told her , that quietness alone , in her present situation , could do justice to the purity of her intentions : but reflection is rarely the partner of happiness in the youthful breast ; it is commonly brought by sorrow , and flies at the first dawn of returning joy . 
Thus , while she dispensed to all around , with views the most innocent , her gay and almost wild felicity , the very delight to which she owed her animation , of believing she was evincing to Edgar with what singleness she was his own , gave her the appearance , in his judgment , of a finished , a vain , an all-accomplished coquette . 
The exaltation of her ideas brightened her eyes into a vivacity almost dazzling , gave an attraction to her smiles that was irresistible , the charm of fascination to the sound of her voice , to her air a thousand nameless graces , and to her manner and expression an enchantment . 
Powers so captivating , now for the first time united with a facility of intercourse , soon drew around her all the attendant admiring beaux . 
The young lord Pervil , the star of the present day , was now drawn into the magic circle of Camilla ; this was full sufficient to bring into it every minor luminary of his constellation ; and even the resplendent and incomparable beauty of Indiana , even the soft and melting influence of the expressively lovely Mrs. Berlinton , gave way to the superior ascendance of that varied grace , and winning vivacity , which seemed instinctively sharing with the beholders its own pleasure and animation . 
He made way , then , to the group , though with unsteady steps ; his eye pierced through to Camilla ; she caught and fixt it . 
She saw the change , but did not understand it . 
He offered her his hand before lady Pervil arose to lead the way , lest some competitor should seize it ; she accepted it , rather surprized by such sudden promptness , though encouraged by it to a still further dependance upon her revived and sanguine expectations . 
Yet deeper sunk this flattering illusion , when she found his whole frame was shaking , and saw his complexion every moment varying . 
She continued , though in a less disengaged manner , her sprightly discourse with the group ; for he uttered not a word . 
Content that he had secured her hand , he waited an opportunity less public . 
Edgar had else purposed to have detained Camilla in the vessel a moment later than her party , to hear the very few words it was his intention to speak . 
Frustrated of this design , he led her away with the rest , still totally silent , till her feet touched the beech : she was then , with seeming carelessness , withdrawing her hand , to trip off to Mrs. Berlinton ; but Edgar , suddenly grasping it , tremulously said : `` Will it be too much presumption -- in a rejected man -- to beg the honour of three minutes conference with Miss Tyrold , before she joins her party ? '' 
A voice piercing from the deep could not have caused in Camilla a more immediate revulsion of ideas ; but she was silent , in her turn , and he led her along the beech , while Mrs. Berlinton , attended by a train of beaux , went to her carriage , where , thus engaged , she contentedly waited . 
Camilla was now all emotion ; pale she turned , but Edgar did not look at her ; and she strove to thank him in a common manner , and to appear cool and unmoved . 
All that , now , I mean to enter upon , all that , now , I wish to enforce , a few words will comprise , and those words will be my -- '' He would have said my last , but his breath failed him ; he stopt ; he wanted her to seize his meaning unpronounced ; and , though it came to her as a thunderbolt from heaven , its very horror helped her ; she divined what he could not utter , by feeling what she could not hear . 
-- Camilla turned aside from him ; but not to weep ; her spirit was now rewakened by resentment , that he could thus propose a separation , without enquiring if she persisted to desire it . 
How could I have borne the light , when it had shewn me Camilla unhappy -- yet Camilla my own -- ? '' 
His struggle here grew vain , his voice faultered ; the resentment of Camilla forsook her ; she raised her head , and was turning to him her softened countenance , and filling eyes , when she saw Melmond , and a party of gentlemen , fast approaching her from Mrs. Berlinton . 
Edgar saw them too , and cutting short all he meant to have added , kissed , without knowing what he did , the lace of her cloak , and ejaculating `` Be Heaven your guard , and happiness your portion ! '' 
left her hand to that of Melmond , which was held out to her , and slightly bowing to the whole party , walked slowly , and frequently looking back , away : while Camilla , nearly blinded now by tears that would no longer be restrained , kept her eyes fixedly upon the earth , and was drawn , more dead than alive , by Melmond to the coach . 
The suddenness of this blow to Camilla , at the moment when her expectations from Edgar were wound up to the summit of all she desired , would have stupified her into a consternation beyond even affliction , had not the mildness of his farewell , the kindness of his prayers , and the friendship of his counsels , joined to the generosity of leaving wholly to herself the account of their separation , subdued all the pride that sought to stifle her tenderness , and penetrated her with an admiration which left not one particle of censure to diminish her regret . 
She went straight to her own room , with a sign of supplication that Mrs. Berlinton would not follow ; and turning quick from Mrs. Mittin , who met her at the street door . 
She was loaded with lilac plumes , ribbands , and gauzes , and Camilla saw her bed completely covered with her new ball dress . 
This sight was , at first , an aggravation of her agony , by appearing to her as superfluous as it was expensive : but wherever hope could find an aperture to creep in at , it was sure of a welcome from Camilla . 
he had taken leave of her , indeed , and he certainly proposed going abroad ; but could a mere meeting once more , be so repugnant as not to be endured . 
The answer to this question was favourable to her wishes , for by her wishes it was framed : and the next play of her fertile and quick reviving imagination , described the meeting that would ensue , the accidents that would bring them into the same set , the circumstances that would draw them again into conversation , and the sincerity with which she would do justice to her unalterable esteem , by assuring him how injurious to it were his surmises that she thought him rigorous , austere , or in any single instance to blame . 
These hopes somewhat appeased , though their uncertainty could not banish her terrors , and she was able to appear at dinner tolerably composed . 
Soon after her arrival at Southampton , a poor woman , who washed for her , made a petition in behalf of her brother , a petty shop-keeper , who , by various common , yet pitiable circumstances of unmerited ill success in business , was unable to give either money or security to the wholesale dealers , for the renewal of his exhausted stock in trade ; though the present full season , made it rational to suppose , that , if he had his usual commodities , he might retrieve his credit , save himself from bankruptcy , and his children from beggary . 
These last , which were five in number , were all , upon various pretences , brought to Camilla , whose pity they excited by the innocence with which they seemed ignorant of requiring it ; and who received them with smiles and encouragement , however frivolous their errands , and frequent their interruptions . 
But the goods which their father wanted to lay in , to revive his trade , demanded full thirty pounds , which , Camilla declared , were as absolutely out of her power to give as thirty thousand , though she promised to plead to Sir Hugh for the sum , upon her return to Cleves , and was prevailed with to grant her name to this promise for the wholesale dealers . 
These would trust , however , to no verbal security ; and Mrs. Mittin , who from collateral reasons was completely a friend of the poor man , offered to be bound for him herself , though thirty pounds were nearly her years income , provided Camilla would sign a paper , by which she would engage upon her honour , to indemnify her of any loss she might eventually sustain by this agreement , as soon as she was of age , or should find it in her power before that time . 
The seriousness of this clause , made Camilla refuse the responsibility , protesting she should have no added means in consequence of being of age . 
The steadiness of Camilla , however , could not withstand her compassion , when the washerwoman brought the poor children to beg for their father ; and , certain of her uncle 's bounty , she would have run a far more palpable risk , sooner than have assumed the force to send them weeping away . 
Camilla , to whose foresight misfortune never presented itself , heard this with nearly equal terror for herself , and sorrow for the poor man : yet her own part , in a second minute , appeared that of mere inconvenience , compared with his , which seemed ruin irretrievable ; she sought , therefore , to comfort him ; but could afford no further help , since she had painfully to beg from her uncle the sum already so uselessly incurred . 
He ventured still to press , that , if again he could obtain a supply , every evil chance should be guarded against ; but Camilla had now learned that accidents were possible ; and the fear which arises from disappointed trust , made her think of probable mischiefs with too acute a discernment , to deem it right to run again any hazard , where , if there were a failure , another , not herself , would be the sufferer . 
Yet the despair of the poor man induced her to promise she would write in his favour , though not act in it again unauthorised . 
With feelings of still augmented discomfort , from her denial , she repaired to her toilette ; but attired herself without seeing what she put on , or knowing , but by Mrs. Mittin 's descriptions and boastings , that her dress was new , of the Pervil uniform , and made precisely like that of Mrs. Berlinton . 
Mrs. Berlinton , though she felt no resentment against Camilla for the desertion she had occasioned her , felt much surprize ; not to be first was new to her : and whoever , in any station of life , any class of society , has had regular and acknowledged precedency , must own a sudden descent to be rather aukward . 
While Camilla was impatiently waiting , Mrs. Pollard , the washerwoman , gained admittance to her , and bringing two interesting little children of from four to five years old , and an elder girl of eleven , made them join with herself to implore their benefactress to save them all from destruction . 
Camilla now wavered ; the debt was but eighteen pounds ; the noble largesses of her uncle in charity , till , of late , that he had been somewhat drained by Lionel , were nearly unlimited . 
-- She paused -- looked now at the pleading group , now at her expensive dress ; asked how , for her own hopes , she could risk so much , yet for their deliverance from ruin so little ; and with a blush turning from the mirrour , and to the children with a tear , finally consented that the landlord should apply to her the next morning . 
Lord Pervil had some time opened the ball before Mrs. Berlinton 's arrival ; but he looked every where for Camilla , to succeed to a young lady of quality with whom he had danced the first two dances . 
He could not , however , believe he had found , though he now soon saw and made up to her . 
The brilliancy of her eyes was dimmed by weeping , her vivacity was changed into dejection , sighs and looks of absence took place of smiles and sallies of gaiety , and her whole character seemed to have lost its spring and elasticity . 
She gave him her hand , to preserve her power of giving it if claimed by Edgar , and though he had thought of her without ceasing since she had charmed him in the yacht , till he had obtained it , not a lady appeared in the room , by the time these two dances were over , that he would not more chearfully have chosen for two more : her gravity every minute encreased , her eye rolled , with restless anxiety , every where , except to meet his , and so little were her thoughts , looks , or conversation bestowed upon her partner , that instead of finding the animated beauty who had nearly captivated him on board the yacht , he seemed coupled with a fair lifeless machine , whom the music , perforce , put in motion ; and relinquished her hand with as little reluctance as she withdrew it . 
Camilla , who still saw nothing of Edgar , yet still thought it possible he might come , joined them as soon as she was able . 
Still vainly , and wretchedly , the eyes of Camilla sought Edgar : the evening advanced , but he came not ; yet , catching at every possible chance for hope , she thought some other room that they had not visited , might be open for company , where , finally , they might meet . 
Camilla now joined them , affrighted at the evident anguish of Eugenia , who , leaning upon her affectionate bosom , had the relief excited by pity , of bursting into tears , while despondingly she uttered : `` All is over , my sister , and over for life with Eugenia ! 
Camilla wept over her in silent , but heart-breaking sympathy . 
Lost to all happiness , and for the first time in her life , divested of hope , Camilla at a late hour returned to Mrs. Berlinton 's . 
The erring and unequal Camilla deserved thee not ! '' 
He accepted her verbal promise to be answerable for the rent now due , declining her note of hand , which her minority made illegal , and engaging not to hurry her for the money ; well satisfied , by the Tyrold character in the whole county , he might abide by her word of honour , founded upon the known munificence of her uncle . 
No conjecture occurred to Camilla but that this must be Edgar ; it was contrary to all probability ; but no other image could find way to her mind . 
She hastened , inexpressibly perturbed , to her sister , determining to be at home before twelve o'clock , and fashioning to herself all the varieties such a meeting could afford ; every one of which , however they began , ended regularly with a reconciliation . 
She found Eugenia weeping in bed . 
I weep , Camilla , for my own infatuation ! 
O Camilla ! 
Camilla , touched to the heart , wept now more than her sister . 
`` That Eugenia , '' she cried , `` has but to be known , to leave all beauty , all figure , every exterior advantage aloof , by the nobler , the more just superiority of intrinsic worth . 
She was then beginning her own sad relation , when an unopened letter upon the toilette table caught her eye . 
Struck by the shape of the seal , Camilla rose to examine it : what was her palpitation , then , to see the cypher E M , and , turning to the other side , to perceive the hand writing of Edgar ! 
She put it into her sister 's hand , with expectation too big for speech . 
exclaimed Camilla , stopping the reading , and putting her hand , as in benediction , upon the paper , `` do you deign to talk of disappointment ? 
At the kind wish upon her own opening prospects , Eugenia wept afresh ; but when Camilla took the letter to press to her lips and her heart what he said of his sufferings , she perceived at the doubling down , two lines more : -- I am this moment leaving Southampton for the Isle of Wight , whence I shall sail to the first Port , that the first vessel with which I may meet shall be bound . '' 
`` No , my dear Eugenia , '' cried she , then colouring , and putting down the letter , `` your mediation will be spared . 
Camilla strove to soothe her , but would no longer listen to any mediation ; she resolved , at once , to write of the separation to her father , and beseech him to send for her to Etherington , and never again suffer her to quit that roof , where alone her peace was without disturbance , her conduct without reproach . 
Even her debts , now , she felt equal to avowing , for as , far from contracting new ones , she meant in future to reside in complete obscurity , she hoped the feelings of this moment would procure pardon for her indiscretions , which her own sedulous future oeconomy should be indefatigable to repair . 
Eugenia would not strive longer against a procedure which she deemed dignified , and the departure of Camilla was hurried by a messenger , who brought word that the strange man , with the flapped hat , was returned , and entreated her , for Heaven 's sake , to let him speak with her one moment . 
Dead , now , to the hope she had entertained of this enquirer , she merely from his own urgency complied with his call ; for her curiosity was gone since she now knew it could not be Edgar . 
His heart was loaded with sorrow , his prospect seemed black with despondence ; but Camilla was lost to that perfect confidence , and unbounded esteem , he required to feel for his wife , and no tenderness without them , no partial good opinion , nor general admiration , could make him wish to lead her to the altar . 
With all the charms she assembles , her character seems too unstable for private domestic life . 
When a few years more have blunted the wild vivacity , the floating ambition , the changing propensities which now render her inconsistent to others , and fluctuating even to herself , she may yet become as respectable , as she must always be amiable . 
But now , ... whoever takes her from the circle in which she is playing will see her lost to all gaiety , though without daring to complain , from the restraint of bidden duties , which make the bidder a tyrant . '' 
He now addressed a few lines to his revered guardian , to be delivered by Dr. Marchmont ; to whom he gave discretionary powers , if any explanation should be demanded ; though clogged with an earnest clause , that he would neither advance , nor confess any thing that could hurt Camilla , even a moment , unless to avert from her some danger , or substantiate some good . 
He held his hand upon his eyes and forehead for a few minutes , in agony inexpressible , then silently gave his servant the letter he had written for Eugenia , took the Doctor by the arm , walked to the beech , and got aboard ; his head still turned wholly towards the town , his eyes looking above it , as if seeking to fix the habitation of Camilla . 
Camilla , farewell ! '' 
Quick , though without a wish of speed , was the return home of Camilla ; she felt at this moment in that crushed and desolate state , where the sudden extinction of hope leaves the mind without energy to form even a wish . 
She turned immediately to the bell , certain its first touch would bring in the footman : but , perceiving her purpose , the stranger seized her by the arm , and in a hoarse low voice said : `` Are you mad , Camilla ? 
-- My dear Camilla ! 
Camilla attempted not to rally ; she felt pierced as by a poignard at the very sight of Lionel . 
The debt he had made her contract with Sir Sedley , the secrecy it exacted , the correspondence it had drawn on , the cruel circumstances it had produced , and the heart-breaking event to which it had , ultimately , led , made his view excite sensations too corrosive , and reflections too bitter , for any enjoyment of a gaiety , which her utmost partiality could not disentangle from levity the most unfeeling . 
Camilla now began to tremble , and would ask no questions -- Lionel , when he had silenced her , seemed at a loss how to proceed ; he walked about the room with quick jerks , opened and shut the window , seated himself upon every chair , and every table ; and then , in a half passion , said : `` so you do n't want to hear any more ? 
You do n't half conceive what a pretty fellow I am , Camilla . 
Displeased at the past , and frightened for what might be to come , she protested she would immediately leave the room , if he continued this persecution : adding `` how affectionately I love you , I need not , I am sure , say ; but a confidence such as this , from a brother to a sister , disgraces us both : and let me penetrate , but not irritate you , if I own , that I much doubt whether I ought not from the beginning , to have revealed this transaction at Etherington . 
Finding he still would be heard , she was peremptorily quitting the room ; but when she had her hand upon the door , he effectually stopt her , by saying , `` Nay , then , if nothing will content you but getting the whole out at once , you may make yourself easy , the business is at end , for -- we 're blown ! '' 
and as it must have been known sooner or later '' -- Camilla now had an air the nearest to severity she had ever worn : `` Adieu , Lionel ! '' 
she cried , `` I am sorry for you , indeed ; but you must find another hearer for this guilty history . 
Lionel now detained her by force . 
Too sick for speech , yet too weak for resistance , she was constrained to return to her seat , and hear what he pleased to relate . '' 
If you 'll believe me , Camilla , you 'll quite spoil your face . 
However , I thought that better than a trial too ; not that she would have broken her heart at a separation , you 'll believe ; but then ... there 's a certain horrid thing called damages ! 
-- Camilla , shaking and pale , now entreated him to get her a glass of water , and , for a while , at least , to forbear continuing this terrible story . 
O , -- then for your life , cries I , do n't say I have been here -- but now -- now Camilla will you think me punished or not ? 
Camilla could not utter a word . 
She dropt her head over her folded arms upon the table , to hide her offending brother from her sight , whom now , placed in opposition to her all-excellent father , she blamed beyond her powers , beyond what she conceived even her rights of expression . 
`` Why now , my dear Camilla , what do you hide your face for ? 
She could only raise her head to ejaculate , `` My poor -- poor father ! '' 
`` Hey-day , Camilla ? 
She took the letter eagerly , yet awfully , kissed in weeping the hand-writing , and read what follows : To have brought up my family with the purity of principle which the holy profession of their father ought to inspire him to teach , has been , from the hour that my paternal solicitudes commenced , the most servent of my prayers . 
-- Camilla stopt , sunk upon her knees , and devoutly repeated the last sentence , with her own ardent supplications joined to it before she could proceed . 
Pay to the laws of society what retribution they require for their violation -- and if suffering should lead to contrition , and seclusion from the world bring thee back to rectitude , then thou may ` st find again thy father Camilla wept over this letter till its characters were almost effaced by her tears . 
To withhold from her father the knowledge of the misconduct of Lionel , what had she not suffered ? 
yet to find it all unavailing , to find him thus informed of his son 's wanton calls for money , his culpable connection , and his just fears of seeing it published and punished , -- and to consider with all this , that Edgar , through these unpardonable deviations from right , was irretrievably lost to her , excited sorrow the most depressing for her father , and regrets scarce supportable for herself . 
Well , what say you , Camilla ? 
Shame , now taking place of affliction , stopt her tears , which dried upon her burning cheeks , as she answered , `` He is well known to you , Lionel : -- you can address him yourself ! '' 
half pronounced Camilla , while again the icicles dissolved , and trickled down her face . 
however , it is not very pretty in you , Camilla , to praise him for treating me so scurvily . 
`` Lend , '' repeated she , significantly . 
`` Lionel , '' cried she , with extreme emotion , I shall see him no more ! 
But do only tell me , Camilla , if you ever knew such a poor unlucky wight ? 
Camilla remained in a state of accumulated distress , that knew not upon what object most to dwell : her father , shocked and irritated beyond the mild endurance of his character ; her brother , wantonly sporting with his family 's honour , and his own morals and reputation ; her uncle , preparing for nuptials broken off without his knowledge ; Edgar , by a thousand perversities of accident , of indiscretion , of misunderstanding , for ever parted from her ; -- rushed all together upon her mind , each combating for precedence , each individually foiled , yet all collectively triumphant . 
Nor were even these her sole subjects of affliction : yet another cause was added , in debts contracted from mingled thoughtlessness , inexperience , and generosity , augmented to she knew not what sum , and to be paid by she knew not what means . 
And this topic , which in itself seemed to her the least interesting , soon , by the circumstances with which it was connected , grew the most pressing of any . 
How , at a moment like this , could she make her purposed confession to her father , whose wounded mind demanded all she could offer of condolement ? 
How call upon her uncle to be reponsible for what she owed , when she now knew the enormous accounts preparing for him from Clermont , of which he was himself yet uninformed ? 
He then kissed her , and was going ; but , earnestly detaining him , she conjured that he would let her first hint his design to their father , that at least it might be set aside , if it would still more deeply disturb him . 
`` You 'll die an old maid , Camilla , take my word for it . 
Camilla cast up her eyes and hands : `` Lionel , she cried , what have you done with your heart ? 
`` Camilla , '' cried he , taking her hands , `` you wrong me ! 
And , believe me , if I were condemned to the galleys , I should think it less than I deserve ; for I hate myself , I repeat -- I honour my father , though I have used him so ill ; I love my mother , -- for all her deuced severity , -- to the bottom of my soul ; I would cut off my left arm for Lavinia and Eugenia ; and for thee , Camilla , I would lop off my right ! 
Camilla now embraced him with a deluge of tears , entreated him to forgive the asperity his seeming want of all feeling had drawn from her , and frequently to write to her , and acquaint her how he went on , and send his direction for her answers ; that so , at least , their father might know how he employed himself , and have the power to give him counsel . 
`` But how , my poor Lionel , '' she added , `` how will you live abroad ? 
What Camilla experienced at this juncture she believed inadmissible of aggravation . 
With his sympathising aid , how might she have softened the sorrows of her father ! 
how have broken the shock of the blow Clermont was preparing for her uncle ? 
But now , instead of lessening their griefs , she must herself inflict upon them a heavier evil than any they had yet suffered . 
And how could she reveal tidings for which they were so wholly unprepared ? 
Again she went to counsel with Eugenia , who , with her usual disinterested affection , proposed taking the painful business upon herself at their return home . 
Camilla with tears of gratitude accepted the sisterly office , and resolved to devote the rest of her short time for Southampton to Mrs. Berlinton ; who , shocked to see her evident unhappiness , hung over her with the most melting tenderness : bewailing alike the disappointment of Eugenia , and the conduct of her brother ; who now , with exquisite misery , shut himself wholly up in his room . 
`` Well , my dear , '' cried she , `` I come with better news now than ever ! 
Nothing could less conduce to the tranquillity of Camilla than such a desire ; her conjectures always flowed into the channels of her wishes ; and she thought immediately that Mrs. Mittin had been informed of her situation , and came to her with some intelligence of Edgar . 
No surprise had ever yet produced less pleasure to Camilla , who now ceased to listen , though Mrs. Mittin by no means ceased to speak , till her attention was awakened by the following sentence : `` So , as I am to go to town , to shop with her , at her own papa 's desire , you can give me the money , you know , my dear , and I can pay off your Tunbridge bills for you . '' 
Camilla , with the utmost apprehension , took the papers into her hands : they were the bills from Tunbridge , of the milliner , the shoe-maker , the haberdasher , and the glover , and amounted altogether to sixteen pounds . 
The chief articles had been nearly forced upon her by Mrs. Mittin , with assurances of their cheapness , and representations of their necessity , that , joined to her entire ignorance of the enormous charges of fashion , had led her to imagine four or five guineas the utmost sum at which they could be estimated . 
What now , then , was her horror ! 
if to sixteen pounds amounted the trifles she had had at Tunbridge , what calculation must she make of articles , so infinitely more valuable , that belonged to her debts at Southampton ? 
And to whom now could she apply ? 
The unhappy situation of her father was no longer an only reason to forbear such a call upon him : Lionel , still under age , was flying the kingdom with debts , which , be they small as they might , would , to Mr. Tyrold 's limited income , be as heavy as the more considerable ones of her cousin upon Sir Hugh ; yet who besides could give her aid ? 
From the fear which Camilla , in her anguish , had uttered of seeing her father , she gathered , there must be some severe restriction in money concerns ; and , without troubling herself to consider what they might be , saw that to aid her at this moment would be the highest obligation ; and immediately set at work a brain as fertile in wordly expedients , as it was barren of intellectual endowments , in forming a plan of present relief , which she concluded would gain her a rich and powerful friend for life . 
She was not long in suggesting a proposition , which Camilla started up eagerly to hear , almost breathless with the hope of any reprieve to her terrors . 
If Camilla , therefore , would collect her debts , this gentleman would pay them , for a handsome premium , and handsome interest , till she was able , at her own full leisure , to return the principal , with a proper present . 
Camilla nearly embraced her with rapture for this scheme . 
The premium she would collect as she could , and the interest she would pay from her allowance , certain that when her uncle was cleared from his embarrassments , her own might be revealed without any serious distress . 
She put , therefore , the affair wholly into the hands of Mrs. Mittin , besought her , the next morning , to demand all her Southampton bills , to add to them those for the rent and the stores of Higden , and then to transact the business with Mr. Clykes ; promising to agree to whatever premium , interest , and present , he should demand , with endless acknowledgments to herself for so great a service . 
The whole of the Southampton accounts were brought her early the next morning by the active Mrs. Mittin , who now concluded , that what she had conceived to be covetousness in Camilla , was only the fear of a hard tyrant of a father , who kept her so parsimoniously , that she could allow herself no indulgence , till the death of her uncle should endow her with her own rich inheritance . 
Had this arrangement not taken place before the arrival of the bills , Camilla , upon beholding them , thought she should have been driven to complete distraction . 
The cloak also , that cheapest thing in the world , was nine guineas ; and various small articles , which Mrs. Mittin had occasionally brought in , and others with which Camilla could not dispense , came to another five pounds . 
Camilla , again thanking , took leave of her , to consign her few remaining hours to Mrs. Berlinton , who was impatient at losing one moment of the society she began sincerely to regret she had not more uniformly preferred to all other . 
As sad now with cares as Camilla was with afflictions , she had robbed her situation of nearly the only good which belonged to it -- an affluent power to gratify every luxury , whether of generosity or personal indulgence . 
Her gaming , to want of happiness , added now want of money ; and Camilla , with a sigh , saw something more wretched , because far deeper and more wilful in error than herself . 
They mingled their tears for their separate personal evils , with the kindest consolation that either could suggest for the other , till Camilla was told that Eugenia desired to see her in the parlour . 
Camilla enquired if Miss Margland expected them immediately . 
`` Yes , '' she answered ; `` but I have first a little business of my own to transact . '' 
Camilla astonished , and Mrs. Berlinton silenced , waited , in an unpleasant pause , the event . 
Melmond , confounded , had bowed down his head not to look at her , while Camilla and Mrs. Berlinton both wept . 
She was then going to hold out her hand to him ; but her courage failed ; she hastily embraced Mrs. Berlinton , took the arm of Camilla , and hurried out of the house , followed by the footman who had attended her . 
Melmond , who had seen the motion of her hand now advancing , now withdrawn , would have given the universe to have stamped upon it his grateful reverence ; but his courage was still less than her own ; she seemed to him , on the sudden , transformed to a deity , benignly employed to rescue and bless him , but whose transcendent goodness he could only , at a distance , and in all humility , adore . 
She was then , by the account given to the master of the ceremonies by Miss Margland , regarded as the heiress of Cleves : but , almost immediately after , the report spread by Mrs. Mittin , that Camilla was the true heiress , gained such ground amongst the shop-keepers , and thence travelled so rapidly from gossip to gossip , and house to house , that Eugenia was soon no more thought of ; though a species of doubt was cast upon the whole party , from the double assertion , that kept off from Camilla , also , the fortune seekers of the place . 
They then settled that Camilla should accompany Mr. Tyrold to Etherington , but keep off all disclosure till the next morning , when Eugenia would arrive , and unfold the sad tidings . 
Indiana was so much piqued , she could scarce refrain from relating the portico history at lord Pervil 's ; but the Baronet , not remarking her discomposure , turned to Camilla and Eugenia , smilingly exclaiming : `` Well , my dear girls , I sha 'n' t mention what we have been looking at in your absence , because of your blushes , which I hope you approve . 
He was rather disappointed when he found Camilla was to go to Etherington , but desired there might be a general meeting the next day , when he should also invite Dr. Marchmont . 
In the way back to Etherington , Camilla could scarce utter a word ; and Lavinia , who had just gathered from her , in a whisper `` All is over with Edgar ! '' 
with divided , but silent pity , looked from her father to her sister , thought of her brother , and wept for all three . 
Unwilling to give Camilla , whom he concluded impressed with the thousand solicitudes of her impending change of situation , any abrupt account of her brother 's cruel conduct , he spoke with composure though not with chearfulness , and hoped , by a general gravity , to prepare , without alarming her , for the ill news he must inevitably relate . 
But he soon , however , observed an excess of sadness upon her countenance , far deeper than what he could attribute to the thoughts he had first suggested , and wholly different from an agitation in which though fear bears a part , hope preponderates . 
But of Melmond , less sure , he had been more open in enquiry , and with inexpressible concern , for his beloved and unfortunate Eugenia , gathered that the affair was ended : though her succeeding plan , by her own desire , Camilla left for her own explanation . 
When they arrived at Etherington , taking her into his study , `` Camilla , '' he said , `` tell me , I beg ... do you know any thing of Lionel ? '' 
Where directly questioned , no sisterly tenderness could induce her to filial prevarication ; but she rejoiced to spare her brother all exposure that mere silence could spare ; and as Mr. Tyrold suspected not her former knowledge of his extravagance and ill conduct , he neither asked , nor heard , any thing beyond the last interview . 
A calamity such as this seemed cause full sufficient for the distress of Camilla ; Mr. Tyrold sought no other ; but though she wept , now , at liberty , his very freedom from suspicion and enquiry increased her anguish . 
The horror of Camilla was nearly intolerable at this speech , and the dreadful disappointment which she knew yet to be awaiting her loved parents . 
`` Take comfort , my dearest girl , '' said Mr. Tyrold , who saw her suffering , `` it is yours , for all our sakes to be chearful , for to you we shall owe the worthiest of sons , at the piercing juncture when the weakest and most faulty fails us . '' 
she cried , `` speak not such words ! 
Lionel himself ... '' she was going to say : has made you less unhappy than you will be made by me : but she durst not finish her phrase ; she turned away from him her streaming eyes , and stopt . 
While to your father , my Camilla . 
... '' These last words were not heard ; such a mention of her mother had already overpowered her , and unable to let him keep up his delusion , she supported her shaking frame against his shoulder , and exclaimed in a tone of agony : `` O my father ! 
-- Shocked , yet nearly incredulous , he insisted upon looking at her : her countenance impelled belief . 
Again she got behind him , and in a voice scarce audible , said , Eugenia would , the next morning , explain all . 
you are young , however , and , with yourself , it may pass away ... but your mother -- my heart , Camilla , is rent for your unfortunate mother ! '' 
The next morning , before they assembled to breakfast , Eugenia was in the chamber of Camilla . 
`` Camilla ! '' 
Camilla , trembling and hanging over her , said : `` You will do for me , I know better than I could do for myself ; -- but spare poor Lionel -- and be just to Edgar ! 
-- Eugenia strictly obeyed : in sparing Lionel she spared also her father , whom his highly unfeeling behaviour with regard to Sir Sedley would yet further have incensed and grieved ; and , in doing justice to Edgar , she flattered herself she prevented an alienation from one yet destined to be nearly allied to him , since time , she still hoped , would effect the reconciliation of Camilla with the youth whom -- next to Melmond -- she thought the most amiable upon earth . 
He then met Camilla with the most consolatory kindness ; yet would not trust her ardent mind with the hopes he cherished himself , dreading insinitely more to give than to receive disappointment . 
He blamed her for admitting any doubts of the true regard of Edgar , in whom promise was always short of performance , and whom he conceived displeased by unjust suspicions , or offended by undue expectations of professions , which the very sincerity of his rational and manly character prevented him from making . 
Camilla heard in silence suggestions she could not answer , without relating the history of Sir Sedley : ` No , Lionel , no ! ' 
she said to herself , ` I will not now betrary you ! 
A man and horse , therefore , at break of day the next morning , was sent off by Eugenia to Southampton with these words : You will be welcome , Sir , at Cleves , where you will forget , I hope , every painful sensation , in the happiness which awaits you , and disimiss all retrospection , to return with sincerity the serene friendship of Mr. Tyrold now visited Cleves with only his younger daugther , and excused the non-appearance there , for the present , of Camilla ; acknowledging that some peculiar incidents , which he could not yet explain , kept Mandlebert away , and must postpone the celebration of the marriage . 
Mr. Tyrold was well aware that to keep from Sir Hugh the affliction of Camilla , he must keep from him Camilla herself : for though her sighs she could suppress , and her tears disperse , her voice had lost its tone , her countenance its gaiety ; her eyes no longer sparkled , her very smiles betrayed anguish . 
He was the last to wonder at her sufferings , for Edgar was nearly as dear to him as herself ; but he knew not , that , added to this annihilation of happiness , her peace was consumed by her secret knowledge of the blows yet impending for himself and for her uncle . 
Concealment , always abhorrent to her nature , had , till now , been unknown even to her thoughts ; and its weight , from a species of culpability that seemed attached to its practice , was , at times , more dreadful to bear than the loss even of Edgar himself . 
The latter blackened every prospect of selicity ; but the former , still more tremendous to the pure principles in which she had been educated , seemed to strike even at her innocence . 
Camilla felt nearly fainting . 
Why he was come -- whence -- whether Edgar accompanied him -- or sent by him any message -- whether he were returned to Beach Park -- or sailed for the Continent -- were doubts that pressed so fast , and so vehemently upon her mind , that she feared to quit the room lest she should meet Edgar in the passage , and feared still more to continue in it , lest Dr. Marchmont should enter without him . 
Mr. Tyrold , who participated in all her feelings , and shared the same ideas , gently committed her to Lavinia , and went into his study to the doctor . 
Comprehending , therefore , the cause at large , he desired no detail ; the words of Dr. Marchmont , though decisive , were not offensive , and they parted perfect friends , each perceiving , yet forgiving , that each cast upon the other the error of false reasoning ; Edgar to the one , and Camilla to the other , appearing faultless in the separation . 
The pale and trembling Camilla advanced with downcast eyes ; but when he took her in his arms , and kissed her , a sudden ray of hope shot across her quick imagination , and she looked up : an instant was now sufficient to rectify her mistake . 
The tenderness of her father wore no air of congratulation , it was the mere offspring of compassion , and the woe with which it was mixt , though mild , though patient , was too potent to require words for explanation . 
The glance sufficed ; her head dropt , her tears in torrents bathed his bosom ; and she retired to Lavinia while yet neither of them had spoken . 
He then brought her back to his apartment . 
He conjured her , there , to remember that she grieved not alone ; that where the tears flowed not so fast from the eyes , the sources were not dry whence they sprung , and that bridled sorrow was sometimes the most suffering . 
`` What a motive , '' she answered , `` for exertion ! 
Broken-hearted as was Camilla , her sorrows would , at least apparently , have abated from consolation so tender , if all she felt had been known ; if no latent and lurking evil had hung upon her spirits , defeating all argument , and blighting all comfort , by the cruel consciousness of concealed mischief , which while incessantly she studied the best moment for revealing , accident might prematurely betray . 
Upon this subject her thoughts were unremittingly bent , till , in a few days time , she received a letter from Mrs. Mittin , informing her she had just seen the money-lender , Mr. Clykes , who , finding her so much under age , would not undertake the business for less than ten per cent . 
Camilla , affrighted , knew not now what to conjecture ; but gliding into her pocket the letter of Mrs. Mittin , stood suspended from her purpose . 
Giving her , then , the letter and papers ; `` The son , '' he said , `` who once I had hoped would prove the guardian of his sisters , the honour of his mother 's days , the future prop of my own -- See , Camilla , on how sandy a foundation mortal man builds mortal hopes ! '' 
Camilla , overwhelmed with internal shame , yet more powerful than grief itself , stood motionless . 
These expences appeared but like a second part of her own , with her milliner , her jeweller , and her haberdasher ; which now seemed to herself not less wanton in extravagance . 
Surprised by her entire silence , Mr. Tyrold looked up . 
Her cheeks , rather livid than pale , and the deep dismay of her countenance , extremely affected him . 
The kindness of his embraces relieved her by melting her into tears , though the speech which accompanied them was , to her consciousness , but reproach : `` Let not your fisterly feelings thus subdue you , my dearest Camilla . 
Of this , he had always contrived to lay by an hundred pounds annually , which sum , with its accumulating interest , was destined to be divided between Lavinia and Camilla . 
cried Camilla , hanging over him , and losing in filial tenderness her personal distresses ; `` if your manner of living is altered , and my dear mother returns home and sees you relinquishing any of your small , your temperate indulgencies , may it not yet more embitter her sufferings and her displeasure for the unhappy cause ? 
Camilla , at this proposition , retreated , in agony , to her chamber . 
She had considered but the common cause when she spoke , without weighing the strange appearance of not being seconded by her sister : But her mind was amongst the last to covet the narrow praise of insidious comparison ; and her concern for the proposal she had made , when she saw its effect , was as deep as that of Camilla in hearing it , though not attended with the same aggravations . 
The generous and disinterested nature of Camilla , made it impossible to suspect her restrained by a greater love of money than Lavinia ; and he could not endure to suppose her late visits to public places , had rendered personal oeconomy more painful . 
The purchases for the wedding of Miss Dennel being now made , that young lady came down to the country to solemnize her nuptials , accompanied by Mrs. Mittin , who instantly visited Camilla . 
She could settle nothing , she said , with the money-lender , without the premium ; but she had coaxed all the creditors , by assuring them , that , as the debtor was a great heiress , they were certain of their money when she came to her estate . 
Camilla could not endure to owe their forbearance to a falshood ; though to convince Mrs. Mittin of her errour , in contradiction to the assertion of Lionel , was a vain attempt . 
She asked to look at what Camilla possessed of trinkets : and the prize ear - rings of Tunbridge , the ear - rings and necklace of Southampton , and several small toys occasionally given her , were collected . 
The locket she also demanded , to make weight ; but neither that , nor the peculiar gifts , as keep-sakes , of her father , mother , or uncle , consisting of a seal , a ring , and a watch , would she part with . 
What she would relinquish , however , Mrs. Mittin disposed of to one of her numerous friends ; but they raised only , when intrinsically valued , sixteen pounds . 
Lavinia then insisted upon coming forward with a contribution of every trinket she was worth , save what had the same sacred motives of detention : and the twenty pounds , without any ceremony of acknowledgement , were delivered to Mr. Clykes ; who then took into his own hands the payment of the hundred and eighteen pounds ; for which he received a bond , signed by Camilla , and witnessed by Mrs. Mittin ; and another note of hand , promising ten per cent . 
This important affair arranged , Camilla felt somewhat more at ease ; she was relieved from hourly alarms , and left the mistress to make her confession as circumstances directed . 
But she obtained not for nothing the agency of Mrs. Mittin , who was not a character to leave self out of consideration in her transactions for others ; and at every visit made at Etherington from this time , she observed something in the apparel of Camilla that was utterly old fashioned , or too mean for her to wear ; but which would do well enough for herself , when vamped up , as she knew how . 
Her obligations and inexperience made it impossible to her to resist , though , at this season of saving care , she gave up nothing which she could not have rendered useful , by industry and contrivance . 
But this adored object herself suffered some severe repining at her fate , when she saw , from her window , her lover gallop into the park without equipage , without domestics , and mounted on a hired horse . 
The grimacing shrugs of Miss Margland shewed she entered into this mortification ; and they were nearly conspiring to dismiss the ignoble pretender , when a letter , which he modestly sent up , from his sister , inviting Indiana to pass a few weeks in Grosvenor Square , once again secured the interest of the brother . 
This time now arrived ; and the next day was fixed for his painful task , in which he meant to spare Camilla any share , when Jacob begged immediate admittance into the study , where Mr. Tyrold and his daughters were drinking tea . 
Mr. Tyrold was alarmed , Lavinia was frightened , and Camilla exclaimed , `` Jacob , speak at once ! '' 
Camilla ran to get him a chair . 
if my uncle is but well , '' cried Camilla , relieved from her first dreadful doubt , `` all , I hope , will do right ! '' 
While Mr. Tyrold , in silent surprise and concern , listened to an account that placed his brother in difficulties so similar to his own , Camilla , sinking back in her chair , looked pale , looked almost lifeless . 
The history of the debts she already knew , and had daily expected to hear ; but the circumstance of the money-lender , and the delusion concerning the inheritance , so resembled her own terrible , and yet unknown story , that she felt personally involved in all the shame and horror of the relation . 
Mr. Tyrold , who believed her suffering all for her uncle , made further enquiries , while Lavinia tenderly sustained her . 
Camilla , with every moment encreasing agitation , hid her face against Lavinia ; but Mr. Tyrold , with some energy , said : `` The interest , at least , I hope he will not discharge ; for those dangerous vultures , who lie in wait for the weak or erring , to encourage their frailties or vices , by affording them means to pursue them , deserve much severer punishment , than merely losing a recompense for their iniquitous snares . '' 
This was quite too much for the already disordered Camilla ; she quitted her sister , glided out of the room , and delivered herself over as a prey no longer to sorrow but remorse . 
Her conduct seemed to have been precisely the conduct of Clermont , and she felt herself dreadfully implicated as one of the weak or erring , guilty of frailties or vices . 
That an uncle so dearly loved should believe she was forming an establishment which would afford him an asylum during his difficulties , now every prospect of that establishment was over , was so heart-piercing a circumstance , that to her father it seemed sufficient for the whole of what she endured . 
He made her over , therefore , to Lavinia , while he hastened to Cleves ; for Jacob , when he had said all he was ordered to say , all he had gathered himself , and all he was able to suggest , finished with letting him know that his master begged he would set out that very moment . 
The time of his absence was spent by Camilla in an anguish that , at his return , seemed quite to have changed her . 
He was alarmed , and redoubled his tenderness ; but his tenderness was no longer her joy . 
He knows not , she thought , whom he caresses ; knows not that the wounds just beginning to heal for the son , are soon to be again opened for the daughter ! 
He passed slightly over to Camilla the scene he had himself gone through ; but he consessed to Lavinia its difficulty and pain . 
The chaise came early the next morning , and Mr. Tyrold had the pleasure to see Camilla exert herself to appear less sad . 
Nevertheless , Sir Hugh dismissed him , and every body else , to receive Camilla alone . 
She endeavoured to approach him calmly , but his own unchecked emotions soon overset her borrowed fortitude , and the interview proved equally afflicting to both . 
The cruel mischiefs brought upon him by Clermont , were as nothing in the balance of his misfortunes , when opposed to the sight of sorrow upon that face which , hitherto , had so constantly enlivened him as an image of joy : and with her , every self-disappointment yielded , for the moment , to the regret of losing so precious a blessing , as offering a refuge , in a time of difficulty , to an uncle so dear to her . 
The cheeks of Camilla recovered their usual hue at the sight of Henry , from the various interesting recollections which occurred with it . 
She was seen herself with their original admiration , both by the father and the son , though with the former it was now mingled with anger , and with the latter no longer gilded with hope . 
Yet the complaints against her , which , upon his arrival , Mr. Westwyn meant to make , were soon not merely relinquished , but transformed into pity , upon the view of her dejected countenance , and silent melancholy . 
Mr. Westwyn was so much gratified by this praise , that he immediately confessed the scheme and wish he had formed of marrying Hal to Camilla , only for her not approving it . 
Sir Hugh protested nothing could give him more pleasure than such a connexion , and significantly added , he had other nieces , besides Camilla . 
The sisters mutually and sincerely declined this proposition ; Lavinia had too much employment to find time ever slow of passage ; and Camilla , joined to the want of all spirit for recreation , had a dread of appearing in the county , lest she should meet with Sir Sedley Clarendel , whose two hundred pounds were amongst the evils ever present to her . 
Mr. Tyrold was not sorry to have his proposition declined ; yet saw the sadness of Camilla unabated , and suggested , for a transient diversity , a visit to the Grove ; enquiring why an acquaintance began with so much warmth and pleasure , seemed thus utterly relinquished . 
Camilla had herself thought with shame of her apparently ungrateful neglect of Mrs. Arlbery ; but the five guineas she had borrowed , and forgotten to pay , while she might yet have asked them of Sir Hugh , and which now she had no ability any where to raise , made the idea of meeting with her painful . 
And thus , overwhelmed with regret and repentance for all around , her spirits gone , and her heart sunk , she desired never more , except for Cleves , to stir from Etherington . 
Had he seen the least symptom of her revival , Mr. Tyrold would have been gratified by her strengthened love of home ; but this was far from being the case ; and , upon the marriage of Miss Dennel , which was now celebrated , he was glad of an opportunity to force her abroad , from the necessity of making a congratulatory visit to the bride 's aunt , Mrs. Arlbery . 
Camilla felt sorry and ashamed ; but too much disturbed to attempt any palliation for her non-appearance , and remissness of even a note or message . 
The room was full of morning visitors , all collected for the same complimentary purpose ; but she was relieved with respect to her fears of Sir Sedley Clarendel , in hearing of his tour to the Hebrides . 
Her mournful countenance soon , however , dispersed the anger of Mrs. Arlbery . 
`` I thought , '' said Camilla , attempting to smile , `` none but country cousins ever made apologies ? '' 
This was the last thing Camilla meant to undertake : but she began , in a hesitating manner , to speak of her little debt . 
This was a fact that , being thus divulged , a very few questions made impossible to deny ; though Camilla was highly superior to the indelicacy and ingratitude of repaying the preference of any gentleman by publishing his rejection . 
This was by no means the style in which Camilla had been brought up to think of marriage ; and Mrs. Arlbery presently added : `` You are grave ? 
Camilla returned the most brief and quiet answers in her power ; but was too late to save the delicacy of Eugenia in concealing her late double disappointments , the abortive preparations of Sir Hugh having travelled through all the adjoining country . 
This raillery was painful nearly to disgust to Camilla ; who frankly declared she saw her sister with no eyes but those of respect and affection , and could not endure to hear her mentioned in so ridiculous a manner . 
`` Never judge the heart of a wit , '' answered she , laughing , `` by the tongue ! 
She then more seriously apologized for what she had said , and declared herself an unaffected admirer of all she had heard of the good qualities of Eugenia . 
Dear , how do you do , Miss Camilla Tyrold ? 
Then , turning to Camilla , `` Dear , '' she cried , `` how grave you look ! 
Then , taking Camilla by the hand , she begged she would accompany her to next room , saying , `` Pray excuse me , aunt Arlbery , because I want to talk to Miss Tyrold about a secret . '' 
When they came to another apartment , after carefully shutting the door , `` Only think , '' she cried , `` Miss Camilla Tyrold , of my marrying Mr. Lissin at last ! 
She looked frightened , and he took her hand ; which she had not courage to draw back , though in a voice that spoke a sob near at hand , `` I 'm sure , '' she cried , `` this is not being treated like a married woman ! 
The rest of the visit passed without further investigation on the part of Mrs. Arlbery , or embarrassment on that of Camilla ; who found again some little pleasure in the conversation which , at first , had so much charmed , and the kindness which even her apparent neglect had not extinguished . 
She had now learnt that Edgar was gone abroad ; and she had learnt that Camilla had private debts , to the amount of one hundred and eighteen pounds . 
The shock of Camilla , when spoken to upon this subject , was terrible . 
Camilla , deeply colouring , accepted her kind offer ; but was forced upon a confession of the transaction ; though with a shame for her trust in such a character as Mrs. Mittin , that made her deem the relation a penance almost adequate to its wrong . 
The visit of the Westwyns to Sir Hugh shewed Lavinia in so favourable a light , that nothing less than the strong prepossession already conceived for Camilla could have guarded the heart of the son , or the wishes of the father , from the complete captivation of her modest beauty , her intrinsic worth , and the chearful alacrity , and virtuous self-denial , with which she presided in the new oeconomy of the rectory . 
But though the utter demolition of hope played with Henry its usual part of demolishing , also , half the fervour of admiration , he still felt , in consequence of his late failure , a distaste of any similar attempt : and Mr. Westwyn , unbribed by the high praise of his son , which had won him in Camilla , left him master of his choice . 
Each , however , found a delight in the Tyrold society , that seconded the wishes of the Baronet to make them lengthen their visit . 
Camilla could scarcely look at her , for displeasure at her conduct ; but soon observed she seemed herself full of resentment and ill humour . 
She desired a private interview ; and Camilla then found , that Mrs. Arlbery had not only represented her fault , and frightened her with its consequences , but occasioned , though most undesignedly , new disturbances and new dangers to herself : for Mrs. Mittin at length learnt , in this conference , with equal certainty , surprise , and provocation , that the inheritance of Sir Hugh was positively and entirely settled upon his youngest niece ; and that the denials of all expectation on the part of Camilla , which she had always taken for closeness , conveyed but the simple truth . 
Long as was her lamentation , and satisfied as she always felt to hear her own voice , her pause still came too soon for any reply from Camilla , who now felt the discovery of her situation to be inevitable , compulsatory and disgraceful . 
Self-upbraidings that she had ever listened to such an expedient , assailed her with the cruellest poignancy , mingling almost self-detestation with utter despair . 
She now went away ; and Lavinia , who ran to her sister , found her in a state of distress , that melted her gentle heart to behold : but when she gathered what had passed , `` This disclosure , my dearest Camilla , '' she cried , `` can never be so tremendous as the incessant fear of its discovery . 
Far from running , as she was wont , to meet her father upon his entrance , Camilla was twice sent for before she could gain strength to appear in his presence ; nor could his utmost kindness enable her to look up . 
The heart of Mr. Tyrold was penetrated by her avoidance , and yet more sunk by her sight . 
His best hopes were all defeated of affording her parental comfort , and he was still to seek for her revival or support . 
Camilla , who secretly ejaculated a prayer that this sentence might live , henceforward , in her memory . 
Camilla had already strove to raise her drooping head , conscience struck at what was said of despondence ; and now endeavoured to join in the chearful confidence expressed by Lavinia , that he could not be mistaken . 
He now looked at them both , expecting to see pleasure even in Camilla , that what was destined , hereafter , for herself , could prove of the smallest utility to Sir Hugh : but his disappointment , and her shock were equal . 
Too true for the most transitory disguise , the keenest anguish shot from her eye ; and Mr. Tyrold , amazed , said : `` Is it Camilla who would draw back from any service to her uncle ? '' 
The conference here broke up ; something incomprehensible seemed to Mr. Tyrold to be blended with the grief of Camilla ; and though from her birth she had manifested , by every opportunity , the most liberal disregard of wealth , the something not to be understood seemed always to have money for its object . 
Camilla now was half dead ; Lavinia could with difficulty sustain , but by no possible means revive her . 
Camilla had , hitherto , seemed in the spring of joy yet more than of life . 
Anxiety flew at her approach , and animation took its place . 
Nothing could shake his resignation ; yet to behold her constant sadness , severely tried his fortitude . 
To see tears trickling incessantly down the pale cheeks so lately blooming ; to see her youthful countenance wear the haggard expression of care ; to see life , in its wish and purposes seem at an end , ` ere , in its ordinary calculation , it was reckoned to have begun , drew him from every other consideration , and filled his whole mind with monopolizing apprehension . 
He now himself pressed her , for change of scene , to accept an invitation she had received from Mrs. Berlinton to Grosvenor Square , whither Indiana was going in a few days , to spend a fortnight or three weeks before her marriage . 
But she declined the excursion , as not more unseasonable in its expence , than ungenial to her feelings . 
Camilla , in this concession , experienced all she could feel of satisfaction ; but the short sensation died away at the last words of the letter of her Mother , which Mr. Tyrold read aloud . 
In agony past repression at these words , Camilla glided out of the room . 
The return of her Mother was now horrour to her , not joy ; her shattered nerves could not bear the interview , while under a cloud threatening to burst in such a storm ; and she entreated Lavinia to tell her Father that she accepted his proposal for going to Mrs. Berlinton 's ; `` and there , '' she cried , `` Lavinia , I will wait , till Eugenia has told the dreadful history that thus humbles me to the dust ! '' 
The conscience-struck Camilla could make no profession , no promise ; nor yet , though ardently wishing it , refuse his offered advance of her next quarter 's allowance , lest she should be reduced again to the necessity of borrowing . 
`` I shall avoid , '' she cried , `` at least , with my Mother , these killing caresses of deluded kindness that break my heart with my Father . 
This added not , however , to the courage of Camilla for staying , and her next determination was to reveal the whole by letter . 
Mr. Tyrold would not send her to Cleves to take leave , that her uncle might not be tempted to exercise his wonted , but now no longer convenient generosity , nor yet be exposed to the pain of withholding it . 
Weeping and silent she heard him , and his fears gained ground that her disappointment , joined to a view of gayer life , had robbed Etherington of all charms to her . 
Bitterly he regretted he had ever suffered her to leave his roof , though he would not now force her stay . 
Compulsion could only detain her person ; and might heighten the disgust of her mind . 
The little time which remained was given wholly to packing and preparing ; and continued employment hid from Mr. Tyrold her emotion , which encreased every moment , till the carriage of Sir Hugh stopt at the gate . 
Lost , then , to all sensation , but the horrour of the avowal that must intervene ` ere they met again , with incertitude if again he would see her with the same kindness , she flew into his arms , rather agonised than affectionate ; kissed his hands with fervour , kissed every separate finger , rested upon his shoulder , hid her face in his bosom , caught and pressed to her lips even the flaps of his coat , and scarce restrained herself from bending to kiss his feet ; yet without uttering a word , without even shedding a tear . 
Strangely surprised , and deeply affected , Mr. Tyrold , straining her to his breast , said : `` Why , my dear child , why , my dearest Camilla , if thus agitated by our parting , do you leave me ? '' 
This question brought her to recollection , by the impossibility she found to answer it ; she tore herself , therefore , away from him , embraced Lavinia , and hurried into the coach . 
Camilla strove to check her grief upon entering the carriage , in which Miss Margland had again the charge of the young party ; but the interrogatory of her Father , Why will you leave me ? 
-- is expected -- when she returns to her family , Camilla seeks another abode ! 
Eugenia , whose dejection had made Sir Hugh press her into the party , found nothing in it to revive her ; and Camilla entered Grosvenor-square with keen dissatisfaction of every sort . 
The wretched Camilla quitted them all as soon as possible , to retire to her chamber , and ruminate upon her purposed letter . 
She meant , at first , to write in detail ; but her difficulties accumulated as she weighed them . 
`` What a season , '' cried she , `` to sink Lionel still deeper in disgrace ! 
yet , without this acknowledgment , what exculpation could she offer for the origin of her debts ? 
and all she had incurred at Tunbridge ? 
those of Southampton she now thought every way unpardonable . 
Even were she to relate the vain hopes which had led to the expence of the ball dress , could she plead , to an understanding like that of her Mother , that she had been deceived and played upon by such a woman as Mrs. Mittin ? 
cried Camilla , with fearful gratitude , and involuntarily reviving by the most distant idea of such a project . 
Camilla pressed her in her arms , almost kneeling with fond acknowledgments , and accepted , without hesitation , her generous offer . 
My spirits will revive in the revival of Camilla . 
The next morning they sent off a note to the money-lender , whose direction Camilla had received from Mrs. Mittin , entreating his patience for a fortnight , or three weeks , when he would receive the greatest part of his money , with every species of acknowledgment . 
Camilla , much relieved , went to sit with Mrs. Berlinton , but on entering the dressing room , was struck by the sight of Bellamy , just quitting it . 
Mrs. Berlinton , upon her appearance , with a look of soft rapture approaching her , said : `` Felicitate me , loveliest Camilla ! 
Camilla , startled , exclaimed with earnestness , `` My dearest Mrs. Berlinton , pardon me , I entreat -- but is Mr. Bellamy known to Mr. Berlinton ? '' 
answered she , disdainfully ; `` but he has been seen by him . 
said Camilla . 
Camilla was-now first sensible to all the alarm with which Edgar had hitherto strove to impress her in vain . 
The impropriety of such a connexion , the danger of such a partiality , filled her with wonder and disturbance . 
She hesitated whether to relate or not the adventure of Bellamy with her sister ; but the strong repugnance of Eugenia to having it named , and the impossibility of proving the truth of the general opinion of his base scheme , decided her to silence . 
But Camilla , notwithstanding she was lightened , at this moment , from one of her most corrosive cares , was too entirely miserable for any species of amusement . 
The same strong feelings that gave to pleasure , when she was happy , so high a zest , rendered it nearly abhorrent to her , when grief had possession of her mind . 
After dinner , when the ladies retired to dress , Camilla , with some uneasiness , conjured Eugenia to avoid renewing any acquaintance with Bellamy . 
At night , the whole party went to the Opera , except Camilla , who , in spending the evening alone , meant to ruminate upon her affairs , and arrange her future conduct : but Edgar , his virtues , and his loss , took imperious possession of all her thoughts ; and while she dwelt upon his honour , his sincerity , and his goodness , and traced , with cherished recollection , every scene in which she had been engaged with him , he and they recurred to her as visions of all earthly felicity . 
Awakened from these reveries , by the sound of the carriage , and the rapping at the street door , she was hastening down stairs to meet her sister , when she heard Melmond call out from the coach : `` Is Miss Eugenia Tyrold come home ? '' 
Do not be alarmed , my Indiana , and do not alarm Miss Camilla , for I will not return without her . '' 
They all entered but himself ; while Camilla , fixed to the stair upon which she had heard these words , remained some minutes motionless . 
Then , tottering down to the parlour , with a voice hollow from affright , and a face pale as death , she tremulously articulated , `` where is my sister ? '' 
She then gathered that , in coming out of the theatre , to get to the coach , they had missed her . 
cried she , in an agony of apprehension ; `` was he at the Opera ? 
exclaimed Camilla . 
cried Camilla , sinking on the floor , `` she is forced away ! 
When again her strength returned , she desired that some one might go immediately to the house or lodgings of Bellamy , to enquire if he were come home . 
Camilla now , confirmed in her horrible surmise , was nearly frantic . 
She bewailed her sister , her father , her uncle ; she wanted herself to rush forth , to search Eugenia in the streets ; she could scarce be detained within , scarce kept off from entire delirium . 
Camilla rushed to the street-door to meet him . 
She wrung her hands in anguish , and besought him to send instantly an express to Etherington , with the fatal tidings . 
He went himself to the nearest stables , desiring she would prepare a letter while he got a man and horse for the journey . 
In scrawling and indistinct characters she then wrote : `` O my Father -- our Eugenia has disappeared ! 
Melmond wrote the address , which her hand could not make legible ; and Miss Margland prepared for the post a laboured vindication to Sir Hugh of her own conduct upon this occasion . 
She was really very sorry ; but she was really much tired ; and she could do , as she said , no good . 
But Mrs. Berlinton felt an alarm for Eugenia , and an astonishment concerning Bellamy , that would fully have wakened her faculties , had she been wholly unmoved by the misery of Camilla . 
Far other was , however , her nature , gentle , compassionate , and sympathising ; and her own internal disturbance , though great even beyond her own conception why , sunk at sight of the excess of wretchedness which disordered her poor friend . 
Camilla nearly embraced him with transport at this ray of hope , and , leaving his tenderest condolements for Indiana , whom he implored his sister to watch sedulously , he galloped northwards . 
Camilla in every evil reverted to the loss of Edgar , whose guardian care , had she preserved him , would have preserved , she thought , her loved Eugenia . 
A week past thus in suspence , nearly intolerable to Camilla , before Melmond returned . 
Always upon the watch , she heard his voice , and flew to meet him in the dressing room . 
He was at the feet of Indiana , to whom he was pouring forth his ardent lamentations at this long deprivation of her sight . 
But joy had evidently no part in his tenderness ; Camilla saw at once depression and evil tidings , and , sinking upon a chair , could scarcely pronounce , `` Have you not then found her ? '' 
It was long before he could answer ; he besought her to compose herself ; he expressed the extremest solicitude for the uneasiness of Indiana , whose eternal interruptions of `` Dear ! 
he attributed to the agitation of the fondest friendship , and conjured , while tears of terror started into his eyes , that she would moderate the excess of her sensibility . 
It seems the peculiar province of the lover , to transfuse all that he himself most prizes , and thinks praise-worthy , into the breast of his chosen object ; nor is he more blind to the defects with which she may abound , than prodigal in gifts of virtues which exist but in his own admiration . 
cried Camilla , `` you have seen nothing of my Father ? '' 
Rapture now defied all apprehension with Camilla ; the idea of Eugenia restored to her Father , was an idea of entire happiness ; but her joy affected Melmond yet more than her alarm : he could not let her fasten upon any false expectations ; he bid his sister aid him to support Indiana , and then , with all the gentleness of the sincerest concern , confessed that Eugenia was married before she was overtaken . 
This was a blow for which Camilla was still unprepared . 
She concluded it a forced marriage ; horror froze her veins , her blood no longer flowed , her heart ceased to beat , she fell lifeless on the ground . 
Her recovery was more speedy than it was happy , and she was assisted to her chamber , no longer asking any questions , no longer desiring further information . 
This dread sort of chasm in the acuteness of the feelings of Camilla lasted not long ; and Mrs. Berlinton then brought from Melmond the following account . 
Tell Camilla , her sister is , for the present , going home with me -- though not , alas ! 
Tell her , too , I will write to her upon my arrival at Etherington . '' 
Nothing that Camilla had yet experienced of unhappiness , had penetrated her with feelings of such deadly woe as this event . 
We repined , my Camilla , at the deprivation you sustained at that period . 
`` Ah , my Camilla ! 
Tell me , my Camilla , and think but with what joy you will give joy again to your Eugenia . '' 
Broken hearted over these letters , Camilla spent her time in their perpetual perusal , in wiping from them her tears , and pressing with fond anguish to her lips the signature of her hapless sister , self-beguiled by her own credulous goodness , and self-devoted by her conscientious scruples . 
Mr. Clykes , by the promised payment and reward , being for the present appeased , Camilla still admitted some hope of waiting a more favourable moment for her cruel confession . 
She received , also , a little , though mournful , reprieve from terror , by a letter from Lisbon , written to again postpone the return of Mrs. Tyrold , at the earnest request of Mr. Relvil ; and she flattered herself that , before her arrival , she should be enabled to resume those only duties which could draw her from despondence . 
Camilla soon after learnt , from Lavinia , that Sir Hugh had been deeply affected by the history of the elopement , though it had been softened to him by all possible means , at the desire of the heroic Eugenia herself , who would now own to no one the force with which she had been carried off . 
Eugenia was now settled at Belfont ; but still Camilla received no intelligence of the promised boon , and spent her lingering hours in her chamber , no longer even invited thence , except at meals , by Mrs. Berlinton ; whose extreme and encreasing dissipation , from first allowing no time , took off , next , all desire for social life . 
Surprised and hurt , Camilla was called off a little from herself , through concern . 
She sincerely loved Mrs. Berlinton , whom it was difficult to see and know with indifference , and she softly represented to her how ill she felt at ease in the falling off she experienced in her partiality . 
Her gentleness , however , and her returned personal kindness , encouraged Camilla to repeat her admonitions , and engage assistance from Melmond ; who , at any other period , would , uncalled , have given his whole attention to a sister dear at once to his honour and his heart ; but Indiana more than occupied , she engrossed him . 
Gratefully , however , at the instigation of Camilla , he resumed the vigilance with which , upon her first entering London the preceding year , he had attended to all the actions of his sister . 
Even when again the time arrived for returning to Cleves , Indiana , hanging languidly upon every minute she could steal from it , petitioned for a few days more from the ever-granting Baronet , which , while by her devoted to coquetry , admiration , and dress , were consumed by Camilla in almost every species of wretchednes . 
Camilla , at this dreadful history , grew nearly indifferent to all else , and would have relinquished , almost unrepining , her expectations of personal relief , but that Lavinia , in the name of their unhappy sister , bid her still cherish them ; assuring her she hoped yet to perform her engagement , as Mr. Bellamy never disputed her already given promise , though he had mislaid the key of the box in which the trinkets were deposited . 
Nor even here rested the misery of Camilla : another alarm stole upon her mind , of a nature the most dreadful . 
Mrs. Berlinton blushed high , evidently with as much of anger as surprise ; Camilla hastily withdrawing , to avoid an object abhorrent to her , wondered she would admit him : yet , anxious for any intelligence that could relate to her sister , enquired when he was gone , and ran towards the dressing-room to ask what had passed : but before she reached the door , the found of his voice re-entering the hall , and of his step re-ascending the stairs , made her fly into the adjoining apartment , not to encounter him ; where the instant he had shut the door , and before she could move , she heard him exclaim , `` You weep still , my lovely friend ? 
Camilla , who , at first , had been immoveable from consternation , now recovered sufficiently to get back to her room . 
But she returned no more to Mrs. Berlinton , though Bellamy soon departed ; her eagerness for information subsided in indignant sorrow . 
Camilla , without answer or hesitation , related what she had overheard ; adding : `` O , Mrs. Berlinton ! 
`` How injured , my ever-dear Camilla ? 
Does she know what he says ? 
Can it hurt her unheard ? 
Can it affect her unimagined ? 
cried she , blushing in her unwilling conviction : `` I know not how he could delude me to believe our fates resembled . 
Camilla was happy in this victory ; but the following day , Bellamy , at the same hour was announced , and in the same manner was admitted ; Camilla flying , and Mrs. Berlinton protesting she should attack his mistaken comparison with severity . 
Severity , however , was a quality with which she was unacquainted ; Camilla , anxious in every way , hastened to her when he was gone , but found her dissolved in tender tears , shed , she declared , in regret of the uneasiness she had given him , for he had now made her fully sensible his destiny alone was to blame . 
The understanding of Camilla was highly superior to being duped by such flimsy sophistry , which she heard with added detestation of the character of Bellamy ; yet perceived that no remonstrance could prevent his admittance , and that every interview regularly destroyed the effect of every exhortation . 
Camilla sent this letter immediately to her Father , who remitted to Lionel such a sum as must obviate distress , with such intimation for the future as he hoped would best encourage more solid reformation . 
Thus passed the time , improperly , or unhappily to all , till the third period fixed for the return to the country elapsed : and Camilla , finding the whole view of her journey abortive , saw the accumulated yet useless suffering involved through her ill-judged procrastination . 
Camilla , whose heart , however dead to joy , was invariably open to tenderness , was melted with fond emotions in the idea of again meeting her beloved Eugenia , and ready for her journey nearly with the light . 
Soon after she was dressed , a house maid , tapping at her door , said , `` Pray , Ma'am , is Miss Lynmere with you ? '' 
`` Pray , Miss Camilla , do you know any thing of Miss Lynmere ? 
It 's the oddest thing in the world where she can be ! '' 
Camilla , now , went forth to aid the search ; Melmond , who was waiting to hand her into the carriage , looked amazed at the enquiry . 
It soon , however , was clear , that she was no where in the house ; and , after sundry examinations and researches , one of the maids was brought to confess having aided her , in the middle of the night , to go into the street , where she was handed into a post chaise by Mr. Macdersey . 
But , when Miss Margland exclaimed `` O pursue her ; Mr. Melmond ! 
The man who has the honour of her preference , is the only one who can have any hope to make her happy . 
Camilla was truly concerned ; and not merely for the future risk run by her Cousin , in this rash flight , but for the new disappointment to her Uncle . 
She was obliged , however , to bestow her whole attention upon Miss Margland , whose tribulation was yet greater , and who , in losing thus her pupil , lost the expected reward of near thirteen years of unwilling attendance . 
Nor could Camilla so little feel for her distress as to request it . 
An express , therefore , was ordered to Cleves , for informing him of these ill tidings , with a very elaborate panegyric from Miss Margland of her own conduct ; and a desire to know if she should remain in town till something transpired concerning Indiana . 
The express was but just gone , when a packet , which ought to have arrived two days before , by the stage , was delivered to Camilla . 
Camilla read it with a distraction that made it wholly unintelligible to her ; yet could not read it a second time ; her eyes became dim , her faculties confused , and she rather felt deprived of the power of thinking , than filled with any new and dreadful subjects for rumination . 
In this state , the letter on the floor , her eyes staring around , yet looking vacant , and searching nothing , she was called to Lord O'Lerney , who begged the honour of a conference with her upon business . 
She shook her head , in token of denial , but could not speak . 
The servant looked amazed ; yet brought her a second message , that his Lordship was extremely sorry to torment her , but wished to communicate something concerning Mr. Macdersey . 
She then faintly articulated , `` I can see nobody . '' 
Still the same dreadful vacuity superseded her sensibility , till , soon after , she received a note from Lady Isabella Irby , desiring to be admitted to a short conversation with her upon the part of Lord O'Lerney . 
The terrible state in which she appeared was naturally , though not justly , attributed by her ladyship to the elopement of her Cousin : while Camilla , called by her sight to softer regrets , beheld again , in mental view , the loved and gentle image of Edgar . 
Camilla , who only now recollected that Mr. Macdersey was related to Lord O'Lerney , was softened into some attention , and much gratitude for his goodness , and for her Ladyship 's benevolence in being its messenger . 
Camilla mechanically complied , and Lady Isabella sent her footman with a note to his Lordship , who was waiting at her house in Park-lane . 
The discourse still fell wholly upon Lady Isabella ; Camilla , lost alternately in misery and absence , spoke not , heard not ; yet former scenes , though not present circumstances , were brought to her mind by the object before her , and almost with reverence , she looked at the favourite of Edgar , in whose sweetness of countenance , good sense , delicacy , and propriety , she conceived herself reading every moment the causes of his approbation . 
Lord O'Lerney soon joined them ; and after thanking Camilla for granting , and his Ambassadress for obtaining him an audience , said ; `` I have been eager for the honour of a conference with Miss Tyrold , in the hope of somewhat alleviating the fears for the future , that may naturally join with displeasure for the present , from the very unadvised step of this morning . 
He told Camilla to write this , without delay , to the young lady 's Uncle , with full leave to use his name and authority . 
He then added , that it was from Miss Lynmere herself he had learnt the residence of Camilla in Grosvenor Square ; for , having made some acquaintance with her at one of Mrs. Berlinton 's evening parties , he had heard she was a niece of Sir Hugh Tyrold , and immediately enquired after her fair kinswoman , whom he had seen at Tunbridge . 
Camilla thanked him for remembering her ; and Lady Isabella , with a countenance that implied approbation in the remark , said ; `` I have never once heard of Miss Tyrold at the assemblies of this house . '' 
Nevertheless I should rather see any young person , for whom I was much interested , -- unless endowed with the very remarkable forbearance of Miss Tyrold , -- under her influence after the period your Lordship expects to return , than during its interregnum ! '' 
Camilla disavowed all claim to such praise , blushing both for her friend and herself at what was said . 
His eye was then fixed upon Camilla , who surprized , turned hastily to Lady Isabella , and saw a tender compassion in her countenance , that confirmed the interpretation of Lord O'Lerney ; joined with a modest confusion that seemed afraid , or ashamed , of what had escaped her . 
She chaced it , with as little emotion as she could shew ; and Lord O'Lerney , with an air of gayer kindness , said ; `` As we must now , Miss Tyrold , account ourselves to be somewhat allied , you permit me , I hope , to recommend my gallant Cousin to your protection with Sir Hugh ? 
Here ended the little interval of horrour in Camilla . 
`` We 'll talk of that , '' said Camilla , colouring at her loquacious familiarity , `` some other time . '' 
`` For Heaven 's sake , '' cried Camilla , startled , `` what -- '' `` What ? 
The breath of Camilla instantly stopt , and senseless , lifeless , she sunk upon the floor . 
The nearly distracted Camilla saw not that she went ; and knew no longer that she had been in the room . 
She held her forehead one moment ; called for death the next ; and the next wildly deprecated eternal punishment . 
But as the horrour nearly intolerable of this first abrupt blow gave way , the desire of flying instantly to her Father was the symptom of restored recollection . 
But Miss Margland , though she spared not the most severe attacks upon the already self-condemned and nearly demolished Camilla , always found something relative to herself that was more pressing than what could regard any other , and declared she could not stir from town till she received an answer from Sir Hugh . 
Camilla besought at least to have the carriage ; but of this she asserted herself at present the indisputable mistress , and as the express might come back in a few hours , with directions that she should set off immediately , she would not listen to parting with it . 
Camilla , frantic to be gone , flew then down stairs , and called to the porter in the hall , that some one should instantly seek her a chaise , coach , or any conveyance whatever , that could carry her to Winchester . 
She perceived not that Lady Isabella , waiting for her footman , who had , accidentally , gone on further , upon some message , now opened the door of the parlour , where Lord O'Lerney was conversing with her upon what had happened : she was flying back , though not knowing whither nor which way she turned , when Lord O'Lerney , gently stopping her , asked , why she would not , on such an emergence , apply for the carriage of Mrs. Berlinton ? 
The request for the carriage was , indeed , rather made by him than by Camilla , who , when she entered the room , and would have spoken , found herself deprived of the power of utterance , and looked a picture of speechless dismay . 
The next day , however , she was beginning to promise , -- but Camilla , to whom the next minute seemed endless , flew down again to the hall , to supplicate the first footman she could meet , to run and order any sort of carriage he could find ; with but barely sufficient recollection to refrain running out with that view herself . 
Camilla thanked her , without knowing what she said ; and Lord O'Lerney , who was descending the stairs , repeated similar offers . 
But wild with affright , or shuddering with horrour , she passed without hearing or observing him . 
To see a young creature in a state so deplorable , and to consider her as travelling without any friend or support , in so shaken a condition , to visit an imprisoned Father , touched these benign observers with the sincerest commiseration ; and the connexion of a part of his family forming at this moment with a branch of her own , induced Lord O'Lerney to believe he was almost bound to take care of her himself . 
It brought to her memory her various engagements ; but it represented at the same time to her benevolence that they would be all , by the performance of one good action , More honour 'd in the breach than the observance : She sent , therefore , a message after Camilla , entreating a short conference . 
Camilla , who was trying to comprehend some further account from Mrs. Mitten , silently , but hastily obeyed the call ; and her look of wild anguish would have fixed the benign intention of Lady Isabella , had it been wavering . 
A service so unexpected , a goodness so consoling , instantly brought Camilla to the use of her frightened away faculties , but with sensations of gratitude so forcible , that Lord O'Lerney with difficulty saved her from falling at the feet of his amiable friend , and with yet more difficulty restrained his own knees from doing her that homage . 
No time was to be lost ; Lady Isabella determined to do well what she once undertook to do at all ; she went to Park-lane , to make known her excursion , and arrange some affairs , and then instantly returned , in her own post-chaise and four horses , for Camilla ; who was driven from the metropolis . 
Lady Isabella , for the first two or three miles , left Camilla uninterruptedly to her own thoughts ; she then endeavoured to engage her in some discourse , but was soon forced to desist . 
Lady Isabella ordered the chaise to an hotel , where she was shewn into a room up stairs , whence she sent one of her own servants to enquire out where debtors were confined , and if Mr. Tyrold were in custody : charging him not to name , from whom or why he came , and begging Camilla to get ready a note to prepare her Father for the meeting , and prevent any affecting surprise . 
She then went to chuse herself a chamber , determined not to quit her voluntary charge , till she saw her in the hands of her own friends . 
Camilla could not write : to kneel , to weep , to sue , was all she could bear to plan ; to present to him the sight of her hand writing she had not courage . 
Presently she heard a chaise drive rapidly through the inn gate : it might be him , perhaps released ; she flew down the stairs with that wild hope ; but no sooner had descended them , than a dread of his view took its place , and she ran back : she stopt , however , in the landing place , to hear who entered . 
Suddenly a voice struck her ear that made her start ; that vibrated quick to her heart , and there seemed to arrest the springs of life : she thought it the voice of her Mother -- It ceased to speak ; and she dropt on one knee , inwardly , but fervently praying her senses might deceive her . 
Again , however , and more distinctly , it reached her ; doubt then ceased , and terrour next to horrour took its place . 
What was said she knew not , her trepidation was too great to take in more than the sound . 
Prostrate she fell on the floor ; but hearing a waiter say , `` Up stairs , madam , you may have a room to yourself . '' 
She started , rose , and rushing violently back to the apartment she had quitted , bolted herself in ; exclaiming `` I am not worthy to see you , my Mother ! 
She then sat down against the door , to listen if she were pursued ; she heard a footstep , a female step ; she concluded it that of her Mother ; `` She can come , '' cried she , `` but to give me her malediction ! '' 
And flew frantic about the room , looking for any means of escape , yet perceiving only the window , whence she must be dashed to destruction . 
She now heard a hand upon the lock of the door . 
she cried , madly advancing to the window , and throwing up the sash , yet with quick instinctive repentance pulling it down , shuddering and exclaiming : `` Is there no death for me but murder -- no murder but suicide ? '' 
A voice now found its way through her cries to her ear , that said , `` It is me , my dear Miss Tyrold ; will you not admit me ? '' 
`` What is it , my dear Miss Tyrold , '' said Lady Isabella , `` that causes you this sudden agony ? 
again ejaculated the prostrate Camilla ; `` My Mother is spared a little longer the dreadful sight of all she must now most abominate upon earth ! '' 
She then begged Lady Isabella instantly to order the chaise , and return to town . 
cried Camilla , speaking with frightful rapidity , and shaking in every limb , `` all now is changed . 
Camilla , though scarcely able to articulate her words , declared again the motive to her journey was at an end ; that her Father had now one to watch , soothe , and attend him , who had none of her dreadful drawbacks to consoling powers ; and that she would remain at Mrs. Berlinton 's till summoned home by their immediate commands . 
cried Camilla , starting up with fresh horror ; `` she is but just arrived -- has but just been at Etherington -- and there heard -- that her husband was in prison -- and in prison for the debts of her daughter ! 
-- Again , wringing her hands , half distracted , `` O , that the earth , '' she cried , `` had received me , ere I quitted the parental roof ! 
The compassionating , yet judicious Lady Isabella , willing to shorten the sufferings she pitied , made yet another effort to prevent this unadvised return , by proposing they should both sleep this night at Winchester , that Camilla might gather some particulars of her family , and some composure for herself , to better judge what step to pursue . 
But all desire of meeting was now converted into horrour ; she was too much known in the neighbourhood to escape being recognized if she stayed till the morning , and her shattered intellects , she declared , could not bear passing a whole night in expectation of a discovery through some accident . 
`` Have I not already , '' cried she , `` heard her voice and fled its sound ? 
I have a long and dreadful history to relate -- and then , when she has heard it -- and when the rectory has again its reverend master -- and when they find some little palliation , where now they can see only guilt -- and when all is committed without disguise to their goodness -- their mercy -- they may say to me perhaps themselves : Unhappy Camilla ! 
She gathered the amount of the sum for which Mr. Tyrold was confined , and besought Camilla to let it less weigh upon her spirits , as she could herself undertake that Lord O'Lerney would accommodate him with it immediately , and wait his perfect leisure for re-payment . 
`` I have known him , '' said she , `` from a child , and have always seen , with respect and admiration , the prompt pleasure with which he rather seizes than accepts every opportunity to do good . '' 
Camilla returned the most grateful thanks ; but acknowledged she had no apprehension but that the writ would immediately be withdrawn , as the county was almost filled with friends to her Father , who would come forward upon such an occasion . 
`` What rests thus upon my mind , '' said she , `` and what upon his -- and upon my Mother 's will rest -- is the disgrace -- and the cause ! 
Edgar himself seemed , to Camilla , to be speaking in this representation ; and that idea made it catch her attention , in the midst of her utmost misery . 
She urged , however , all she knew , and could suggest , in favour of Mrs. Berlinton ; and Lady Isabella expressed much concern in occasioning her any painful sensations . 
Instructed and grateful , though incapable of being tranquilifed , Camilla the next day reached Grosvenor Square long before her fair friend had left her downy pillow . 
Camilla took possession of the first room in which she found a pen and ink , and wrote instantly to Lavinia a short , rapid , and incoherent letter , upon the distraction of her mind at the dreadful calamity she had occasioned her Father , and the accumulated horrours to which her Mother had returned . 
She was put immediately into uncommon good-humour , by the ill success at the journey of Camilla , which she protested was exactly what she expected . 
Camilla then strove to recollect all she had been told by Lord O'Lerney of Mr. Macdersey , and to relate it to Miss Margland , who , pleased and surprised , undertook to write it to Sir Hugh . 
As soon as they were alone together , Camilla took her hand ; but , without returning its pressure , Mrs. Berlinton presented her with a new poem for her evening 's amusement . 
Camilla put it down , but while hesitating how to begin , Bellamy was announced . 
Camilla entreated she might speak with her before dinner the next day . 
To this she received a gentle assent : but no interview at the time appointed took place ; and when at dinner they met , no notice was taken of the neglect . 
She now saw she was pointedly avoided . 
Her courage , however , was called upon , her gratitude was indebted for past kindnesses , and her honour felt a double engagement . 
The opportunity therefore she could not obtain by request , she resolved to seize by surprise . 
Camilla drew back , and would have retired , but she hastily dried her eyes , and said : `` Miss Tyrold ? 
my friend , as I had hoped , and by me , surely I trust loved for ever , '' cried Camilla , throwing her arms round her neck , `` why this sorrow ? 
Camilla hoped this was the instant to improve ; when she appeared to be , herself , calling religion to her aid , and when the tenderness of her appeal seemed to bring back a movement of her first partiality . '' 
`` Suffer , suffer me , '' she therefore cried , `` to speak to you now ! 
`` Mrs. Berlinton , affrighted , drew back , acknowledging herself unhappy ; but shrinking from all discourse , and starting when Camilla named Bellamy , with a confusion she vainly strove to repress . 
Unhackneyed in the world as was Camilla , her understanding and sense of right stood here in the place of experience , to point out the danger and impropriety surrounding her friend ; and catching her by the gown , as she would have quitted the room , `` Mrs. Berlinton , '' she emphatically cried , `` if you persist in this unhappy , this perilous intercourse , you risk your reputation , you risk my sister 's peace , you risk even your own future condemnation ! 
Camilla listened with horrour to this avowal , yet saw , with compassion , that her friend endeavoured to persuade herself she was free from wrong ; though with censure that she sought to gloss over , rather than investigate , every doubt to the contrary : but while fear was predominant for the event of such a situation to herself , abhorrence filled her whole mind against Bellamy , in every part , every plan , and every probability of the business . 
she cried , `` conquer this terrible infatuation , which obscures danger from your sight , and right from your discernment ! 
Touched , terrified , and convinced , she embraced Camilla , wept in her arms , and promised to see Bellamy no more . 
Mr. Clykes , she had heard , finding his bill for his own trouble positively refused , had conceived the Tyrold family in danger of bankruptcy , by the general rumours of the joint claimants of Lionel and Clermont ; and imagining he had no time to lose , hoped by an arrest to frighten their Father to terms , in order to obviate the disgrace of such a measure . 
I will not therefore , wound your feelings , my dearest Camilla , with even touching upon my own . 
`` You know , my dearest Camilla , her extreme and tender fondness ; you can not , therefore , doubt , but her displeasure will soon pass away . 
A wish for death , immediate death , in common with every youthful mourner , in the first paroxisin of violent sorrow , was the sole sensation which accompanied the reading , or remained after the finishing of this letter , with Camilla . 
`` Here , '' she cried , falling prostrate , `` here might I but at once expire ! 
She laid down her head , and her sight became dim ; a convulsive shivering , from feelings over-strained , and nerves dreadfully shattered , seized her ; she sighed short and quick , and thought her prayer already accomplishing ; but the delusion soon ceased ; she found life still in its vigour , though bereft of its joy ; and death no nearer to her frame , for being called upon by her wishes . 
In the heaviness of disappointment , `` I have lived , '' she cried , `` too long , and yet I can not die ! 
-- To live thus , seemed to her impossible ; to pass even the day in such wretchedness she believed impracticable . 
Any , every period appeared to her preferable , and in the desperation of her heart , she determined instantly to pursue her Mother to Belfont ; and there , by the gentle intercession of Eugenia , to obtain her pardon , or , which she thought immediately would follow its refusal , to sink to death at her feet . 
The chaise was accorded promptly by Mrs. Berlinton , and no regret expressed at the uncertainty of Camilla whether or not she should return ; but Miss Margland , though burning with curiosity to see Eugenia as Mrs. Bellamy , would not quit town , from continual expectation of some news of Indiana . 
At an early hour the following morning , and feeling as if suspended but by a thread between life and death , Camilla set off for Belfont . 
The plan of Camilla was to stop within twenty yards of the house of Bellamy , and then send for Molly Mill . 
-- Is it Camilla ? 
Camilla could not articulate a syllable . 
The horrour she had conceived against Bellamy chilled all attempt at consolation , and her own misery which , the preceding moment , seemed to be crushing the springs of life , vanished in the agonized affection with which she felt the misfortunes of her sister . 
Eugenia soon recovered , and rising , and holding her by the hand , yet seeming to refuse herself the emotion of returning her embraces , said , with a faint effort to smile ; `` You have surprised me , indeed , my dear Camilla , and convicted me to myself of my vain philosophy . 
The melancholy conveyed by this idea of believed apathy , in a young creature so innocent , and but just dawning into life , still beyond speech , and nearly beyond sufferance , affected Camilla , who hanging over her , sighed out : `` My dearest ! 
`` No , '' she answered , shuddering at his name . 
Called to her sad self by this shock , of which she strove to repress the emotion , Camilla recollected her own `` almost blunted purposeHamlet. , '' and fearfully asked if their Mother were yet at Belfont . 
she answered , clasping her hands , and leaning her head upon her sister 's neck : `` She is gone ! 
-- yet to pass with her such another , I think , my dear Camilla , would soon lead me where I might learn a better philosophy than that I sovainly thought I had already acquired here ! '' 
Camilla , struck with awe , ventured not even at an enquiry ; and they both , for some little time , walked on in silence . 
`` Did she name to you , '' at length , in broken accents , she asked , `` did she name to you , my Eugenia , -- the poor , banished -- Camilla ? '' 
`` She did not mention me ? '' 
She came to me but upon one subject . 
She failed in her purpose , -- and left me . '' 
my Eugenia , '' cried Camilla , now in agony unresisted , `` tell me , then , what passed ! 
Camilla zealously joined in the prayer , yet besought to know if she might not be informed of the view to which she alluded ? 
Camilla , affrighted , now gave up her request ; but the generous Eugenia would not leave her in suspense . 
Camilla could give only a tacit promise ; but her air shewed she would hold it sacred as any bond . 
`` The idea which brought over this inestimable Parent , and which brought her , at a moment when she knew me to be alone , to this sad house , these sad arms -- Camilla ! 
and to restore me again -- O , Camilla ! 
Camilla ! 
She gasped almost convulsively ; yet though Camilla now even conjured her to say no more , went on : `` A proposal such as this , pressed upon me by one whose probity and honour hold all calamity at nought , if opposed to the most minute deviation from right -- a proposal such as this -- ah ! 
Camilla knew too well her firmness , her enthusiasm to perform whatever she conceived to be her duty , to enter into any contest . 
Yet to see her thus self devoted , where even her upright Mother , and pious Father , those patterns of resignation to every heaven-inflicted sorrow , thought her ties were repealed by the very villainy which had formed them , seemed more melancholy , and yet harder for submission , than her first seizure by the worthless Bellamy . 
And then , Camilla , began my trial ! 
Indeed I thought , when she had left me , -- when my arms no more embraced her honoured knees , and neither her blessings , nor her sorrows soothed or wounded my ears , I thought I might desy all evil to assault , all woe to afflict me ever again ! 
The sensations of Camilla were all such as she durst not utter ; but Eugenia , assuming some composure ; added , `` Of this and of me now enough -- speak , my dear Sister , of yourself . 
my Mother , I find , spared you ; and not only you , but me -- though I have wrung her heart , tortured it by a sight never to be obliterated from her memory -- she would not rob me of my beloved sister 's regard ; nor even name me , left the altered tone of her voice should make you say , Of what Camilla does my Mother speak ? '' 
Eugenia , with earnest wonder , begged an explanation ; but when Camilla found her wholly uninformed of the history of their Father 's confinement , she recoiled from giving her such a shock : yet having gone too far entirely to recede , she rested the displeasure of their Mother upon the debts , and the dealings with a usurer ; both sufficiently repugnant to the strictness and nobleness of Mrs. Tyrold to seem ample justification of her displeasure . 
Eugenia entered into the distresses of her sister , as if exempt herself from all suffering : and Camilla , thus commiserating and commiserated , knew not how to tear herself away ; for though Eugenia pressed not her stay , she turned pale , when a door opened , a clock struck , or any thing seemed to prognosticate a separation ; and looked as if to part with her were death . 
But when Camilla then rang to give orders for the carriage , the footman said it had been gone more than two hours . 
The postillion , being left without any directions , thought it convenient to suppose he was done with ; and knowing Camilla had no authority , and his lady no inclination to chide him , had given in her little packet , and driven off , without enquiry . 
Far from repining at this mixture of impertinence and carelessness , Camilla would have rejoiced in an accident that seemed to invite her stay , had not her sister seemed more startled than pleased by it . 
She begged , therefore , that a post chaise might be ordered ; and Molly Mill , the only servant to whom the mistress of the house appeared willing to speak , received the commission . 
At sight of Camilla , Molly had cried bitterly , and beginning `` O Miss ! 
Camilla embraced her generous Sister ; and always readiest for what was speediest , wrote these lines , directed I can not continue silent , yet to whom may I address myself ? 
cried Camilla . 
Obliged to acknowledge his entrance , Camilla arose ; but her parched lips and clammy mouth made her feel as if his sight had given her a fever , and she attempted not to force any speech . 
He did not seem surprized at seeing her , asked how she did , rather cavalierly than civilly : rang the bell , and gave various orders ; addressed scarce a word to his wife , and walked whistling about the room . 
At length ; `` Miss Camilla , '' he said , `` I suppose you know Miss Margland is gone ? '' 
Camilla , astonished , was now called forth from her taciturnity ; `` What possibly , '' she cried , `` can have induced this sudden journey ? 
Camilla was confounded . 
Why Miss Margland had not , at least , called at Belfont to enquire if she would proceed with her , was beyond all her conjecture . 
Soon after , Bellamy 's servant came in with a letter for Camilla , which had arrived after she left town , and was given to him by Mrs. Berlinton 's butler . 
So touching a mark of the fond gratitude of the Cleves ' servants to their kind master , mingled tenderness , in defiance of all horrour , in the tears of Camilla ; but her total inability to satisfy the just claims of Jacob , since now her resource even in Eugenia failed , with the grief of either defeating his worthy project , or making it lastingly hurtful to him , was amongst the severest strokes which had followed her ill advised schemes . 
But his inattention upon her return was so near rudeness , that she soon felt convinced Mrs. Berlinton had acquainted him with her remonstrances and ill opinion : he seemed in guilty fear of letting her converse even a moment with Eugenia ; and presently , though with an air of pretended unconcern , said : `` You have no commands for the chaise I came in , Miss Camilla ? '' 
Camilla , for some time , bestowed no thought upon what she was doing , nor whither she was going . 
A scene so dreadful as that she now quitted , and a character of such utter unworthiness as that with which her sister for life was tied , absorbed her faculties , and nearly broke her heart . 
When she stopt , however , at Bagshot , for fresh horses , the obligation of giving directions to others , made her think of herself ; and , bewildered with uncertainty whether the step she took were right or wrong , she regretted she had not , at least , desired to stay till the answer arrived from Etherington . 
Yet her journey had the sanction of Eugenia 's concurrence ; and Eugenia seemed to her oracular . 
Jacob was , at first , incapable of all answer , through surprise at her strange appearance ; but then said , `` O Miss Camilla ! 
Horrour crept through every vein of Camilla , in the explanation she awaited of this fearful mystery . 
`` Why , yes , Miss Camilla , considering -- '' he began ; but Camilla , whose fears had been fatal , interrupted him with servant thanksgiving , till she was called back from joy by the following words : `` He 's gone away Miss Camilla ! 
A thunder-bolt that had instantly destroyed her , would gratefully have been received , in preference to this speech , by Camilla , who , casting up her hands and eyes , exclaimed : `` Then am I the most detestable , as well as the most wretched of human beings ! 
Jacob tried to console her ; but his account was only added torture . 
The very instant he told her , that his master had received the news of the arrest of Mr. Tyrold , he determined upon this violent plan ; and though the so speedy release , through the generosity of Mr. Westwyn , had exceedingly calmed his first emotions , he would not change his purpose , and protested he would never indulge himself in peace nor comfort more , till he had cleared off their joint debts ; of which he attributed the whole fault to himself , from having lived up to the very verge of his yearly income , when he ought , he said , considering there were so many young people , to have always kept a few odd sums at hand for accidents . 
`` We all did what we could , '' continued Jacob , `` to put him off from such a thing , but all to no purpose ; but if you 'd been here , Miss Camilla , you 'd have done more with him than all of us put together : but he called Miss Lavinia and all of us up to him , and said to us , I wo n't have nobody tell this to my poor little girl , meaning you , Miss Camilla , till I 've got somewhere settled and comfortable ; because of her kind heart , says he . '' 
Tenderness so partial , at so suffering an instant , almost killed Camilla . 
`` O Jacob , '' she cried , `` where is now my dear generous uncle ? 
I will follow him in this chaise -LRB- rushing out as she spoke -RRB- I will be his servant , his nurse , and attend him from morning to night ! '' 
She hurried into the carriage as she spoke , and bade him give directions to the postillion . 
But when she heard he was , at present , only at Etherington , whence he was seeking a new abode , her head drooped , and she burst into tears . 
Miss Margland had been at the house about three hours ago ; and had met Sir Hugh , who had come over , to give directions about what he would have packed up ; and he had read a letter from Miss Indy that was , and had forgiven her ; but he was sore vexed Miss Margland had come without Miss Camilla ; only she said Miss Camilla was at Mrs. Bellamy 's , and she did not call , because she thought it would be better to go back again , and see more about Miss Indy , and so bring Miss Camilla next time ; so she wheedled his master to spare the chaise again , and let her go off directly to settle every thing to Miss Indy 's mind . 
Camilla now repented she had not returned to Mrs. Berlinton 's , there , notwithstanding all objections , to have waited her recall ; since there her parents still believed her , and thence , under the protection of Miss Margland , would in all probability summon her . 
To present herself , after this barbarous aggravation of the calamities she had caused , undemanded and unforgiven at Etherington , she thought impossible . 
She enquired if , by passing the night at Cleves , she might have any chance of seeing her uncle the next day . 
A meeting , thus circumstanced , with her Father , at a moment when he came upon so direful a business , as parting with a place of which she had herself occasioned the desertion , seemed to her insupportable : and she resolved to return immediately to Belfont , to see there if her answer from Lavinia contained any new directions ; and if not , to again go to London , and await final commands ; without listening ever more to any hopes , projects , or judgments of her own . 
Beseeching the worthy Jacob to pardon her non-payment , with every kind assurance that her uncle should know all his goodness , she told the postillion to take her to Belfont . 
Jacob marvelled , but blessed her , and Camilla , ejaculating , `` Adieu , dear happy Cleves ! '' 
To leave thus a spot where she had experienced such felicity ; to see it naked and forlorn , despoiled of its hospitality , bereft of its master , -- all its faithful old servants unrewarded dismissed ; in disgrace to have re-entered its pales , and in terrour to quit them ; -- to sly even the indulgent Father , whose tenderness had withstood every evil with which errour and imprudence could assail him , set her now all at war with herself , and gave her sensations almost maddening . 
She reviewed her own conduct without mercy ; and though misery after misery had followed every failing , all her sufferings appeared light to her repentant sense of her criminality ; for as criminal alone , she could consider what had inflicted misfortunes upon persons so exemplary . 
She arrived at Alresford so late , with the return horses , that she was forced to order a room there for the night . 
Though too much occupied to weigh well her lonely and improper situation , at an inn , and at such hours , she was too uneasy to go to bed , and too miserable for sleep . 
She sat up , without attempting to read , write , or employ herself , patroling her chamber in mournful rumination . 
Nearly as soon as it was light , she proceeded , and arrived at the house of Bellamy as the servants were opening the window-shutters . 
Camilla would fain have spared her the history of the desertion of Cleves ; but it was an act that in its own nature must be public ; and she had no other way to account for her so speedy return . 
Camilla , almost petrified , read the lines . 
She knew better than her sister the plan to which this was the consent ; which to have been given after her representations and urgency , appeared so utterly unjustifiable , that , with equal grief and indignation , she gave up this unhappy friend as wilfully lost ; and her whole heart recoiled from ever again entering her doors . 
Retracing , nevertheless , her many amiable qualities , she knew not how , without further effort , to leave her to her threatening fate ; and determined , at all risks , to put her into the hands of her brother , whose timely knowledge of her danger might rescue her from public exposure . 
She wrote therefore the following note : `` To Frederic Melmond , Esq. . 
C. T. '' His address , from frequently hearing it , was familiar to her ; she went herself into the hall , to give the billet to a footman for the post-office . 
She would not let her sister have any share in the transaction , left it should afterwards , by any accident , be known ; though , to give force to her warning , she risked without hesitation the initials of her own name . 
Camilla at length whispered ; `` I have , perforce , heard all ! 
and I will go ; -- though whither -- '' She stopt , with a look of distress so poignant , that Eugenia , bursting into tears , while tenderly she clung around her , said , `` My sister ! 
my Camilla ! 
Camilla entreated she would inquire if he knew whither Miss Margland was gone . 
Can you , thought Camilla , talk of ill-treatment ? 
while , turning to her sister , she said , `` Which way shall I now travel ? '' 
Bellamy advancing , said , with a smile , `` I see you are not much used to travelling , Miss Camilla ! '' 
Camilla now recollected the eldest little Higden , the washerwoman 's niece , and kindly enquired after her father , her aunt , and family . 
cried Camilla , `` all my purposes have not , then , been frustrated ! '' 
With added satisfaction she learnt also that the little girl had a good place , and a kind mistress . 
`` Yesterday I saw her looking at your picture ; the moment seemed to be happy , and I ventured to say ; `` Ah , poor Camilla ! '' 
`` Even after this , my dear Camilla , I hazarded another word , `` she will be miserable , I said , my dear Mother , till she returns . '' 
This is no season for any expence that may be avoided ; and Camilla , most of all , must now see the duties of oeconomy . 
Were her understanding less good , I should less heavily weigh her errours ; but she sets it apart , to abandon herself to her feelings . 
they will now themselves be her punishers ! 
Let her not however despond ; tell her , when you write , her angelic Father forgives her ; and tell her she has always had my prayers , and will ever have my blessing ; -- though I am not eager , as yet , to add to her own reproaches , those she may experience from my presence . 
`` I knew not how to introduce this to my dearest Camilla , but your messenger , and his haste , now forces me to say all , and say it quick . 
cried Camilla , `` she can not bear my sight ! 
Weak from inanition , confused from want of sleep , harassed with fatigue , and exhausted by perturbation , she felt now so ill , that she solemnly believed her fatal wish quick approaching . 
The landlord of the inn entered to say that the chaise she had ordered was at the door ; and put down upon the table the bill of what she had to pay . 
Whither to turn , what course to take , she knew not ; though to remain longer at an inn , while persuaded life was on its wane , was dreadful ; yet how present herself at home , after the letter she had received ? 
what asylum was any where open to her ? 
She begged the landlord to wait , and again read the letter of Lavinia , when , startled by what was said of abandoning herself to her feelings , shew saw that her immediate duty was to state her situation to her parents . 
`` Camilla Tyrold . '' 
To enclose the bill to Etherington was to secure its being paid ; but the sentence , Camilla most of all must now see the duties of conomy , made her revolt from such a step . 
All she still possessed of pecuniary value she had in her pocket : the seal of her Father , the ring of her Mother , the watch of her Uncle , and the locket of Edgar Mandlebert . 
With one of these she now determined to part , in preference to any new exposure at Etherington , or to incurring the smallest debt . 
She desired to be left alone , and took them from her pocket , one by one , painfully ruminating upon which she could bear to lose . 
`` It may not , she thought , be for long ; for quick , I hope , my course will end ! 
-- '' She looked at them , kissed and pressed them to her heart ; spoke to them as if living and understanding representatives of their donors , and bestowed so much time in lamenting caresses and hesitation , that the waiter came again , while yet she was undetermined . 
She desired to speak with the mistress of the house . 
Instinctively she now put away the gifts of her parents ; but between her uncle and Edgar she wavered . 
She blushed , however , at her demur , and the modesty of duty made her put up the watch . 
Taking , then , an agitating last view of a locket which circumstances had rendered inappreciable to her , `` Ah ! 
not in vain , '' she cried , `` even now shall I lose what once was a token so bewitching -- Dear precious locket ! 
Mrs. Marl looked at it with great admiration , and then , with yet greater wonder , at Camilla . '' 
Mrs. Marl objected to keeping both ; but her husband said he saw no harm in it ; and Camilla begged her note might be sent without delay . 
The messenger returned not till midnight ; what , then , was the consternation of Camilla that he brought no answer ! 
She suspected he had not found the house ; she doubted if the letter had been delivered ; but he affirmed he had put it into the hands of a maid-servant , though , as it was late , he had come away directly , and not thought of waiting for any answer . 
Unused to transact any sort of business for herself , she had expected , in sending a letter , an answer as a thing of course , and had now only herself to blame for not having ordered him to stay . 
She consoled herself , however , that she was known to be but nine miles distant from the rectory , and that any commands could be conveyed to her nearly in an hour . 
What they might be , became now , therefore , her sole anxiety . 
Would not her Mother write ? 
After an avowal such as she had made of her desolate , if not dying condition , would she not pardon and embrace her ? 
Was it not even possible she might come herself ? 
`` O how , '' she cried , `` shall I see her ? 
-- though a kindness that , even from my childhood , seemed to say , Camilla , be blameless -- or you break your Mother 's heart ! 
Expectation being now , for this night , wholly dead , the excess of her bodily fatigue urged her to take some repose : but her ever eager imagination made her apprehensive her friends might find her too well , and suspect her representation was but to alarm them into returning kindness . 
A fourth night , therefore , passed without sleep , or the refreshment of taking off her cloaths ; and by the time the morning sun shone in upon her apartment , she was too seriously disordered to make her illness require the aid of fancy . 
She was full of fever , faint , pallid , weak , and shaken by nervous tremors . 
`` I think , '' she cried , `` I am now certainly going ; and never was death so welcomed by one so young . 
Tranquillised by this hope , and this idea , she now lost all sufferings but those of disease : her mind grew calm , her spirits serene : all fears gave way to the certainty of soothing kindness , all grief was buried in the solemnity of expected dissolution . 
But this composure outlived not the first hours of the morning ; as they vainly advanced , producing no loved presence , no letter , no summons ; solicitude revived , disappointment sunk her heart , and dread preyed again upon her nerves . 
She started at every sound ; every breath of wind seemed portentous ; she listened upon the stairs ; she dragged her feeble limbs to the parlour , to be nearer at hand ; she forced them back again to her bed-room , to strain her aching eyes out of the window ; but still no voice demanded her , and no person approached . 
Camilla asked what had been the matter . 
`` O ma'am , '' she answered , crying , `` here 's been murder ! 
She then related that he had been found dead in a wood hard by , and one person calling another , and another , he had been brought to the inn to be owned . 
with an involuntary shudder asked Camilla . 
Yes , she answered , but her mistress had ordered her not to own it , for fear of frightening the young lady ; and said he would soon be carried away . 
The tale was shocking , and , though scarce conscious why , Camilla desired Peggy to stay with her . 
The little girl was most willing ; but she was presently called down stairs ; and Camilla , with strong shame of nameless fears and weak horrour , strove to meditate to some use upon this scene . 
But her mind was disturbed , her composure was gone ; her thoughts were broken , abrupt , unfixed , and all upon which she could dwell with any steadiness , was the desire of one more appeal to her family , that yet they would consent to see her , if they received it in time ; or that they should know in what frame of mind she expired , should it bring them too late . 
With infinite difficulty , she then wrote the following lines ; every bending down of her head making it ache nearly to distraction . 
`` Camilla Tyrold . '' 
This she gave to Peggy , with a charge that , at any expence , it might be conveyed to the rectory at Etherington immediately . 
When the first violence of this paroxysm of sorrow abated , Camilla again strove to pray , and found that nothing so much stilled her . 
Yet , her faculties confused , hurried , and in anguish , permitted little more than incoherent ejaculations . 
Again she sighed for her Father ; again the spirit of his instructions recurred , and she enquired who was the clergyman of the parish , and if he would be humane enough to come and pray by one who had no claim upon him as a parishioner . 
said Camilla , disappointed , `` it is more necessary than ever ! 
She then told Peggy to plead for her to her mistress , and assure her that nothing else , after the dreadful shock she had received , could still her mind . 
Mrs. Marl placed the light as far as possible from the bed , and when Camilla waved her hand in token of being ready , said , `` Now , Sir , if you please . '' 
-- He stopt ; but she did not speak ; and after a short pause , he resumed : but not a second sentence was pronounced , when she feebly ejaculated , `` Ah heaven ! '' 
She strove to raise her head ; but could not ; she opened , however , the side curtain , to look out ; he advanced , at the same moment , to the foot of the bed -- fixed his eyes upon her face , and in a voice that seemed to come from his soul , exclaimed , `` Camilla ! '' 
With a mental emotion that , for an instant , restored her strength , she drew again the curtain , covered up her face , and sobbed even audibly , while the words , `` O Edgar ! '' 
He attempted not to unclose the curtain she had drawn , but with a deep groan , dropping upon his knees on the outside , cried , `` Great God ! '' 
but checking himself , hastily arose , and motioning to Mrs. Marl and to Peggy , to move out of hearing , said , through the curtain ; `` O Camilla ! 
-- By all you have ever valued -- by all your wonted generosity -- I call -- I appeal -- Camilla ! 
Camilla ! 
Camilla had no utterance , yet could not resist this urgency , and gently through the opening of the curtain , put forth her feeble hand . 
He seemed affected to agony ; he held it between each of his own , and while softly he uttered , `` O ever -- unchangeably generous Camilla ! '' 
she felt it moistened with his tears . 
Too weak for the new sensation this excited , she drew it away , and the violence of her emotion menacing an hysteric fit , Mrs. Marl came back to her , and wringing his hands as he looked around the room , he tore himself away . 
Declining all aid , Camilla continued in the same position , wrapt up , coveting the dark , and stifling sighs that were rising into sobs , till she heard a gentle tap at her door . 
She started , but still hid herself : Mrs. Marl was already gone ; Peggy answered the summons , and returned to the bedside , with a note in her hand , begging Camilla to take it , as it came from the gentleman who was to have read the prayers . 
cried she , in a voice announcing deep disappointment . 
She threw the covering from her face , and with uplifted hands , exclaimed ; `` O Edgar ! 
But the characters seemed double to her weak and dazzled eyes , and she was forced to relinquish the attempt . 
She pressed it to her bosom , and again covered herself up . 
Something , nevertheless , like internal revival , once more , to her own unspeakable amazement , began fluttering at her breast . 
She had seen the beloved of her heart -- dearer to her far than the life she thought herself resigning ; seen him penetrated to anguish by her situation , awakened to the tenderest recollections , and upon her hand had dropt a testimony of his sensibility , that , dead as she had thought herself to the world , its views , its hopes , its cares , passed straight to her heart -- that wonderful repository of successive emotions , whence the expulsion of one species of interest but makes way for the entrance of another ; and which vainly , while yet in mortal life , builds , even from hour to hour , upon any chasm of mortal solicitude . 
While wrapt up in this reverie , poignantly agitating , yet undefinably soothing , upon the return of Edgar to England , and his astonishing appearance in her room , her attention was again aroused by another gentle tap at the door . 
A sensation of pleasure was now so new to Camilla , as almost to be too potent either for her strength or her intellects . 
She doubted all around her , doubted what she heard , doubted even her existence . 
-- who was under the same roof -- who had been in the same room -- who was now separated from her but by a thin wainscot ? 
she cried , `` my senses all delude me ! 
Yet she called Peggy to her again , again asked her if it were indeed true ; and , bidding her once more bring the candle , the new spirit with which she was invigorated , enabled her to persevere in her efforts , till she made out the following lines ; which were sealed , but not directed . 
-- Forgive , O Camilla ! 
Deign to bury in kind oblivion all remembrance but of our early friendship -- our intuitive attachment , our confidence , esteem , and happy juvenile intercourse ; and under such auspices -- animated as they are innocent -- permit me to hasten Mrs. Tyrold to this spot , or trust me -- I conjure -- with the mystery of this dreadful desolation -- O Camilla ! 
E. M. '' Dissolved in tears of tenderness , relieving , nay delightful , she immediately sent him word that she accepted his kind office , and should feel eternal gratitude if he would acquaint her friends with her situation . 
The young ` Squire then asked if she was a lodger or a traveller , and her mistress answered : `` She 's a traveller , Sir ; and if it had not been for Peggy 's knowing her , we should have been afraid who she might be ; for she stays here , and never pays us ; only she has given us a watch and a locket for pledges . '' 
internally cried Camilla , how from the first have I loved -- how to the last will I prize it ! 
A calm now took place of her agonies that made her seem in a renovated existence , till sleep , by gentle approaches , stole upon her again : not to bring to her the dread vision which accompanied its first return ; nor yet to allow her tranquil repose . 
A softer form appeared before her ; more afflictive , though not so horrible ; it was the form of her Mother ; all displeasure removed from her penetrating countenance ; no longer in her dying child viewing the child that had offended her ; yet while forgiving and embracing , seeing her expire in her arms . 
She awaked , affrighted , -- she started , she sat upright ; she called aloud upon her mother , and wildly looking round , thought she saw her at the foot of the bed . 
She crossed her eyes with her hands , to endeavour to clear her sight : but the object only seemed more distinct . 
She bent forward , seeking conviction , yet incredulous , though still meeting the same form . 
Sighing , at last , from fruitless fatigue ; '' 'T is wonderous odd , '' she cried , `` but I now never know when I wake or when I sleep ! '' 
The form glided away ; but with motion so palpable , she could no longer believe herself played upon by imagination . 
Awe-imprest , and wonder-struck , she softly opened her side curtain to look after it . 
She could not discern the face ; but the whole figure had the same sacred resemblance . 
The pulses of her head beat now with so much violence , she was forced to hold her temples . 
Doubt , dread , and hope seized every faculty at once ; till , at length , the upraised arm of the form before her dropt , and she distinctly saw the profile : `` It is herself ! 
she screamed , rather than pronounced , and threw herself from the bed to the floor . 
was repeated , in a tone solemn and penetrating ; -- `` to what a scene , O Camilla , returned ! 
her house abandoned -- her son in exile -- her Eugenia lost -- her husband , the prop of all ! 
-- where she dare not name ! 
-- and thou , the child of her bosom ! 
-- the constant terrour , yet constant darling of her soul -- where , and how , does she see , does she meet thee , again -- O Camilla ! '' 
Then tenderly , though with anguish , bending over her , she would have raised , and helped her to return to the bed : but Camilla would not be aided ; she would not lift up her eyes ; her face sought the ground , where leaning it upon her hands , without desiring to speak , without wishing to stir , torn by self-reproaches that made her deem herself unworthy to live , she remained speechless , immoveable . 
repeated Camilla , in a voice hardly audible ; `` have I a Mother -- who again will own the blast of her hopes and happiness ? 
Again she then would have raised her ; but Camilla sunk from all assistance : `` No , '' she cried , `` I am unworthy your lenity -- I am unable even to bear it . 
-- '' `` Camilla , '' said Mrs. Tyrold , steadily , `` it is time to conquer this impetuous sensibility , which already , in its effects , has nearly broken all our hearts . 
O Camilla ! 
Bending then over her , she folded her in her arms ; where Camilla , overpowered with the struggles of joy and contrition , sunk nearly lifeless . 
cried Camilla , `` tell me first -- if the time may ever come when with truth you can forgive me ? '' 
Camilla seemed transported to another region ; with difficulty Mrs. Tyrold could hold her in her bed , though hovering over her pillow with incessant caresses : but to raise her eye only to meet that of her Mother -- not as her fertile terrour had prophesied , darting unrelenting ire , but softly solicitous , and exquisitely kind ; to feel one loved hand anxiously upon her forehead , and to glue her own lips upon the other ; to find fears that had made existence insupportable , transformed into security that rendered it delicious ; -- with a floating , uncertain , yet irrepressible hope , that to Edgar she owed this restoration , caused a revulsion in all her feelings , that soon operated upon her frame -- not , indeed , with tranquillity , but with rapture approaching to delirium : -- when suddenly , a heavy , lumbering noise , appalled her . 
she faintly cried , `` our beloved Eugenia ! 
Camilla could not answer ; certain , now , who it must be , her emotions became again uncontrollable ; her horrour , her remorse , her self-abhorrence revived , and agonizingly exclaiming , '' 'T is my Father ! 
cried Camilla , forgetting her situation , in her desire to throw herself at his feet , `` can you speak to me thus , after the woe -- the disgrace I have brought upon you ? 
I lament only that I took you not at once to your proper security -- to these arms , my Camilla , that now so fondly infold you ! 
Camilla , in each hand held one of each beloved Parent ; alternately she pressed them with grateful reverence to her lips , alternately her eye sought each revered countenance , and received , in the beaming fondness they emitted , a benediction that was balm to every woe . 
Mr. Tyrold was soon , by urgent claims , forced to leave them ; and Camilla , with strong secret anxiety to know if Edgar had caused this blest meeting , led to a general explanation upon past events . 
And now , to her utter amazement , she found that her letter sent by the labourer had never been received . 
Mrs. Tyrold related , that she had no sooner read the first letter addressed to her through Lavinia , than , softened and affected , she wrote an answer of the utmost kindness to Belfont ; desiring Camilla to continue with her sister till called for by Miss Margland , in her return home from Mrs. Macdersey . 
The visit , meanwhile to Cleves , had transpired through Jacob , and , much touched by , yet much blaming her travelling thus alone , she wrote to her a second time , charging her to remove no more from Belfont without Miss Margland . 
Instantly imagining she came with tidings of fatal tendency concerning Camilla , she started back , exclaiming , `` All then , is over ? '' 
Bellamy , as soon as Camilla had left Belfont , had made a peremptory demand that his wife should claim , as if for some purpose of her own , a large sum of Sir Hugh . 
This view of the transaction , by better reconciling Camilla to the ultimate lot of her sister , brought her back to reflect upon her own . 
Still she had not gathered with precision how she had been discovered . 
Camilla , who had looked up , now again hastily drew back , and Mrs. Tyrold , after a short pause , went on . 
thought Camilla , 't is to Edgar , then , that ultimately I owe this blest moment ! 
`` But my Father , '' she cried , `` my dearest Mother , -- how came my dear Father to know where you had found me ? '' 
Again filial gratitude silenced all but itself , and sleep , the softest she had known for many months , soon gave to oblivion every care in Camilla . 
Camilla , from sorrow the most desolate , bounded to joy that refused a solicitude ; and from an illness that held her suspended between delirium and dissolution , to ease that had no complaint . 
The sufferings which had deprived her of the benefit of rest and nourishment were no sooner removed , than she appeared to be at once restored to health ; though to repair the wastes of strength some time yet was necessary . 
Though the evil committed by the non-deliverance of Camilla 's letter was now passed all remedy , Mrs. Tyrold thought it every way right to endeavour to discover where laid the blame : and by the two usual modes of menace and promises , she learnt that the countryman , when he stopt to drink by the way , had , in lighting his pipe , let the letter take fire ; and fearing to lose the recompense he had expected , had set his conscience apart for a crown , and returned with the eventful falsehood , which had made Camilla think herself abandoned , and her friends deplore her as lost . 
Camilla found , with extreme satisfaction , that Mrs. Tyrold , notwithstanding the strictness of the present family oeconomy , meant liberally to recompense Mrs. Marl , for the trouble and patience with which she had attended to a guest so little profitable : while Peggy , to whose grateful remembrance she owed the consideration she had met with in her deserted condition , was rewarded by a much larger sum than she had ever before possessed . 
Camilla was obliged to confess she had parted with two pledges for future payment : the watch was reclaimed without difficulty ; but she shewed so much distress in naming the locket , that Mrs. Tyrold , though she looked anxiously surprised , demanded it without enquiring into its history . 
The excess of delight to Camilla in preparing to return to Etherington , rendered her insensible to all fatigue , till she was descending the stairs ; when the recollection of the shock she had received from the corpse of Bellamy , made her tremble so exceedingly , that she could scarce walk past the door of the room in which it had been laid . 
Ambrose had announced their intended arrival , and at the door of the house , the timid , but affectionate Lavinia was waiting to receive them ; and as Camilla , in alighting , met her tender embraces , a well-known voice reached her ears , calling out in hurried accents , `` Where is she ? 
And Sir Hugh , hobbling rather than walking into the hall , folded her in his feeble arms , sobbing over her : `` I ca n't believe it for joy ! 
The heart of Camilla bounded with grateful joy at sight of this dear Uncle , and at so tender a reception : and while with equal emotion , and equal weakness , they were unable to support either each other or themselves , the worthy old Jacob , his eyes running over , came to help his Master back to the parlour , and Mrs. Tyrold and Lavinia conveyed thither Camilla : who was but just placed upon a sofa , by the side of her fond Uncle , when the door of an inner apartment was softly opened , and pale , wan , and meagre , Eugenia appeared at it , saying , as faintly , yet with open arms , she advanced to Camilla : `` Let me too -- your poor harassed , and but half-alive Eugenia , make one in this precious scene ! 
-- my so mourned -- but now for ever , I trust , restored to me , most dear Camilla ! '' 
Camilla , thus encircled in her Mother 's , Uncle 's , Sister 's , arms at once , gasped , sighed , smiled , and shed tears in the same grateful minute , while fondly she strove to articulate , `` Am I again at Etherington and at Cleves in one ? 
Mrs. Tyrold entreated Camilla might be spared further conversation . 
Eugenia had already glided back to her chamber , and begged , this one solacing interview over , to be dispensed with from joining the family at present ; Camilla was removed also to her chamber ; and the tender Mother divided her time and her cares between these two recovered treasures of her sondest affection . 
Camilla , whose danger was the result of self-neglect , as her sufferings had all flowed from mental anguish , was already able to go down to the study upon the arrival of Mr. Tyrold : where she received , with grateful rapture , the tender blessings which welcomed her to the paternal arms -- to her home -- to peace -- to safety -- and primval joy . 
Mr. Tyrold , sparing to her yet weak nerves any immediate explanations upon the past , called upon his wife to aid him to communicate , in the quietest manner , what had been done at Belfont to Eugenia ; charging Camilla to take no part in a scene inevitably shocking . 
Once more in the appropriate apartment of her Father , where all her earliest scenes of gayest felicity had passed , but which , of late , she had only approached with terrour , only entered to weep , she experienced a delight almost awful in the renovation of her pristine confidence , and fearless ease . 
She took from her pocket -- where alone she could ever bear to keep it -- her loved locket , delighting to attribute to it this restoration to domestic enjoyment ; though feeling at the same time , a renewal of suspence from the return of its donor , and from the affecting interview into which she had been surprised , that broke in upon even her filial happiness , with bitter , tyrannical regret . 
Yet she pressed to her bosom the cherished symbol of first regard , and was holding it to her lips , when Mrs. Tyrold , unexpectedly , re-entered the room . 
`` O yes , my dearest Mother , '' said the blushing Camilla , `` of that -- and of every -- and of all things -- you have only -- you have merely -- '' `` If it distresses you , my dear child , we will leave it to another day , '' said Mrs. Tyrold , whose eyes Camilla saw , as she now raised her own , were swimming in tears . 
cried she , with the tenderest alarm , `` has any thing new happened ? 
I am not without some fears for my Camilla 's strength , in the immediate demand that may be made upon her fortitude . 
repeated Camilla , with involuntary quickness ; but finding Mrs. Tyrold did not notice it , gently adding , `` That person that -- I believe -- you mean -- has done nothing , my dear Mother , to merit expulsion ! 
If Edgar -- '' Camilla again changed colour , and strove to withdraw her hands . 
Her head now dropt upon Mrs. Tyrold 's shoulder , as she faintly answered , `` He deserves your good opinion , my dearest Mother -- for he adores you -- I can not be unjust to him , -- though he has made me -- I own -- not very happy ! '' 
`` Design shy , my Camilla ? '' 
`` Speak out , then , and speak clearer , my dearest Camilla . 
Edgar , rushing forward , and seizing the hands of Mrs. Tyrold , even while they were encircling her drooping , shrinking , half expiring Camilla , pressed them with ardent respect to his lips , rapidly exclaiming , `` My more than Mother ! 
cried Mrs. Tyrold , leaning her head upon her clinging Camilla , while large drops fell from her eyes ; `` Misfortune , I see , is not the greatest test of our philosophy ! 
It was not , however , quite fair to my Camilla , and if she is angry , we will be self-exiled till she can pardon us . '' 
`` This is such a dream , '' -- cried Camilla , as now , first , from the voice of her Father she believed it reality ; `` so incredible -- so unintelligible -- I find it entirely -- impossible -- impossible to comprehend any thing I see or hear ! '' 
`` If I could understand in the least , '' said Camilla , `` what this all means -- what -- '' Mr. Tyrold now insisted that Edgar should retreat , while he made some explanation ; and then related to his trembling , doubting , wondering daughter , the following circumstances . 
interrupted Camilla , with quick blushing recollection ; -- `` but my illness -- and all that has followed , made me forget them both till this very moment -- Did she say any thing of any -- other ? '' 
`` Be not frightened , my Camilla , -- all has been beautifully directed for the best . 
Camilla now could with difficulty listen ; but her Father hastened to acquaint her , that Edgar , with the most generous apologies , the most liberal self-blame , had re-demanded his consent for a union , from which every doubt was wholly , and even miraculously removed , by learning thus the true feelings of her heart , as depicted at the awful crisis of expected dissolution . 
The returning smiles which forced their way now through the tears and blushes of Camilla , shewed how vainly she strove to mingle the regret of shame with the felicity of fond security , produced by this eventful accident . 
When I met her , I hinted at what was passing , and she followed me to our Eugenia ; I then briefly communicated my adventure ; and your Mother , my Camilla , lost herself in hearing it ! 
Only at her feet could Camilla shew her gratitude ; to action she had recourse , for words were inadequate , and the tenderest caresses now spoke best for them all . 
Camilla was most happy to pay such an attention to her sister ; but when Mr. Tyrold was leaving her , to consult upon it with Edgar , the ingenuousness of her nature urged her irresistibly to say , `` Since all this has passed , my dearest Father -- my dearest Mother -- does it not seem as if I should now myself -- '' She stopt ; but she was understood ; they both smiled , and Mr. Tyrold immediately bringing in Edgar , said , `` I find my pardon , my dear fellow-culprit , is already accorded ; if you have doubts of your own , try your eloquence for yourself . '' 
He left the room , and Mrs. Tyrold was gently rising to quietly follow , but Camilla , with a look of entreaty of which she knew the sincerity , and would not resist the earnestness , detained her . 
cried Edgar , again respectfully taking her hand , `` and through your unalterable goodness , let me hope to procure pardon for a distrust which I here for ever renounce ; but which had its origin in my never daring to hope what , at this moment , I have the felicity to believe . 
in a soft voice interrupted Camilla : `` Have I any thing to forgive ? 
and that my imprudencies -- my rashness -- my so often-erring judgment -- and so apparently , almost even culpable conduct '' -- `` O , my Camilla ! 
my now own Camilla ! '' 
`` Are you sure , '' said Camilla , smiling , `` this is your interest , and not mine ? 
The sun-shine of her returning smiles went warm to her Mother 's heart , and gave a glow to the cheeks of Edgar , and a brightness to his eyes that irradiated his whole countenance . 
Tears were the only language that could express the fulness of joy which succeeded to so much sorrow ; and when Mr. Tyrold returned , and had united his tenderest benediction with that of his beloved wife , Edgar was permitted to remain alone with Camilla ; and the close of his long doubts , and her own long perplexities , was a reciprocal confidence that left nothing untold , not an action unrelated , not even a thought unacknowledged . 
Edgar confessed that he no sooner had quitted her , than he suspected the justice of his decision ; the turn which of late , he had taken , doubtfully to watch her every action , and suspiciously to judge her every motive , though it had impelled him in her presence , ceased to operate in her absence . 
-- He was too noble to betray the well meant , though not well applied warnings of Dr. Marchmont , yet he acknowledged , that when left to cool reflection , a thousand palliations arose for every step he could not positively vindicate : and when , afterwards , from the frank communication of Lionel , he learnt what belonged to the mysterious offer of Sir Sedley Clarendel , that she would superintend the disposal of his fortune , and the deep obligation in which she had been innocently involved , his heart smote him for having judged ` ere he had investigated that transaction ; and in a perturbation unspeakable of quick repentance , and tenderness , he set out for England . 
-- '' `` But still , '' said Camilla , `` I do not quite understand how you came in that room this morning ? 
I heard my name spoken by Mrs. Tyrold , and the gentle voice of my Camilla , in accents yet more gentle than even that voice ever spoke before , answering from question ; I was not myself , at first , aware of its tenour -- but when , unavoidably , I gathered it -- when I heard words so beautifully harmonizing with what I had so lately perused -- I would instantly have ventured into the room ; but Mr. Tyrold feared surprising you -- you went on -- my fascinated soul divested me of obedience -- of caution -- of all but joy and gratitude -- and he could no longer restrain me . 
And now with which of her offenders will my Camilla quarrel ? '' 
I must only , in future , '' added she , smiling , `` speak ill of you -- and then you will find less pleasure in the thinness of a partition ! '' 
Faithfully she returned his communication , by the fullest , most candid , and unsparing account of every transaction of her short life , from the still shorter period of its being put into voluntary motion . 
With nearly breathless interest , he listened to the detail of her transactions with Sir Sedley Clarendel , with pity to her debts , and with horrour to her difficulties . 
But when , through the whole ingenuous narration , he found himself the constant object of every view , the ultimate motive to every action , even where least it appeared , his happiness , and his gratitude , made Camilla soon forget that sorrow had ever been known to her . 
They then spoke of her two favourites Mrs. Arlbery , and Mrs. Berlinton ; and though she was animated in her praise of the good qualities of the first , and the sweet attraction of the last , she confessed the danger , for one so new in the world , of chusing friends distinct from those of her family ; and voluntarily promised , during her present season of inexperience , to repose the future choice of her connections , where she could never be happy without their approvance . 
The two hundred pounds to Sir Sedley Clarendel , he determined , on the very day that Camilla should be his , to return to the Baronet , under the privilege , and in the name of paying it for a brother . 
In conference thus softly balsamic to every past wound , and thus deliciously opening to that summit of earthly felicity -- confidence unlimited entwined around affection unbounded -- hours might have passed , unnumbered and unawares , had not prudence forced a separation , for the repose of Camilla . 
Camilla sought to dissuade her from reflexions so afflictive , and retrospections so poignant ; but they aided her , she said , in her task of acquiring composure for the regulation of her future life . 
A sigh at the recollection of the change in his situation , since his plan was last agitated , checked his felicity , and depressed even that of Edgar , who , with the most tender earnestness , besought his leave to advance the sum requisite to return him tranquilly to his mansion ; but who could not prevail , till Camilla joined in the petition , and permitted Edgar , in both their names to entreat , as their dearest wish , that they might be united , according to the first arrangement , from Cleves . 
My dear little Camilla , that I took all my fortune from , is the very person to give me her 's as soon as ever she gets it ! 
as well as my own house over my old head again , after my turning her , as one may say , out of it ! 
When the happy day arrived for returning to Cleves , Sir Hugh re-took possession of his hospitable mansion , amidst the tenderest felicitations of his fond family , and the almost clamorous rejoicings of the assembled poor of the neighbourhood : and the following morning , Mr. Tyrold gave the hand of Lavinia to Harry Westwyn , and Dr. Marchmont united them ; and Edgar , glowing with happiness , now purified from any alloy , received from the same revered hand , and owed to the same honoured voice , the final and lasting possession of the tearful , but happy Camilla . 
Indiana was more fortunate in her northern expedition , than experiments of that nature commonly prove . 
Macdersey was a man of honour , and possessed better claims to her than he had either language or skill to explain : but the good Lord O'Lerney , who , to benevolence the most chearful , and keenness the least severe , joined judgment and generosity , acted as the guardian of his kinsman , and placed the young couple in competence and comfort . 
The profession of Macdersey obliging him to sojourn frequently in country quarters , Indiana , when the first novelty of tte--ttes was over , wished again for the constant adulatress of her charms and endowments , and , to the inexpressible rapture of Sir Hugh , solicited Miss Margland to be her companion : and the influence of constant flattery was so seductive to her weak mind , that , though insensible to the higher motive of cherishing her in remembrance of her long cares , she was so spoilt by her blandishments , and so accustomed to her management , that she parted from her no more . 
Mrs. Arlbery was amongst the first to hasten with congratulations to Camilla . 
With too much understanding to betray her pique upon the errour of her judgment , as to the means of attaching Mandlebert , she had too much goodness of heart not to rejoice in the happiness of her young friend . 
The first care of Edgar was to clear every debt in which Camilla had borne any share , and then to make over to Lavinia the little portion intended to be parted between the sisters . 
Lord O'Lerney was sedulously sought by Edgar , who had the infinite happiness to see Camilla a selected friend of Lady Isabella Irby , whose benevolent care of her in the season of her utter distress , had softly enchained her tenderest gratitude , and had excited in himself an almost adoring respect . 
Melmond had received in time the caution of Camilla , to prevent the meeting to which the baseness of Bellamy was deluding his misguided sister , through her own wild theories . 
Thus ended the long conflicts , doubts , suspences , and sufferings of Edgar and Camilla ; who , without one inevitable calamity , one unavoidable distress , so nearly fell the sacrifice to the two extremes of Imprudence , and Suspicion , to the natural heedlessness of youth unguided , or to the acquired distrust of experience that had been wounded . 
Edgar , by generous confidence , became the repository of her every thought ; and her friends read her exquisite lot in a gaiety no longer to be feared : while , faithful to his word , making Etherington , Cleves , and Beech Park , his alternate dwellings , he rarely parted her from her fond Parents and enraptured Uncle . 
And Dr. Marchmont , as he saw the pure innocence , open frankness , and spotless honour of her heart , found her virtues , her errours , her facility , or her desperation , but A PICTURE OF YOUTH ; and regretting the false light given by the spirit of comparison , in the hypothesis which he had formed from individual experience , acknowledged its injustice , its narrowness , and its arrogance . 
