As for Mary , her eye sparkled as brightly , and the rich tones of her voice were as merry , as they could have been when her little aerial foot danced along the marble saloon of her grandfather . 
My eye rested on her , with a painful mixture of sadness and admiration , as in rapid succession she inquired about the scenes of her youth . 
Whether the father felt any uneasiness as to the effect of this silent flattery on the young heart of his daughter , or whether habitual asperity had triumphed over natural affection I know not ; but he replied in an angry tone , `` Wherefore , Mary , do you ask about those , who bow the knee to Baal , and utter the mummery of common prayer ? 
As I saw the tears start in Mary 's eyes , I felt a vague suspicion that the conversation was , in some way or other , painful to her ; and I perceived that the entrance of Mr. Oldham with his tobacco was a relief to her . 
Here 's Good-man Conant would fain have a fair name on ` tother side the water ; but after all , he hath much likeness to Rachel of old , only he keepeth the images in another 's tent . 
Human weakness prompted me to return , and again , when I had most decidedly concluded to stay in New England , the childish witchery of Mary Conant would pass before me , and I felt that the balance was weighed down by earthly motives . 
The rays of the full moon rested on her face , and I at once perceived that it was Mary Conant . 
Among all my conjectures , I could not possibly imagine for what purpose she could be making an excursion at that lonely hour of the night . 
I remembered the hint , which her father had given , concerning the beguilement of her silly heart , and I could not but suspect that this walk was , in some way or other , connected with the young Episcopalian . 
Whatever was her project , she seemed half fearful of performing it ; for she cast a keen , searching glance behind , and a long , fearful look , at the woods beneath , before she plunged into the thicket . 
After a moment 's consideration , I resolved to follow her , and stepping from behind the tree which had afforded me concealment , I cautiously proceeded along the path which she had taken . 
She had stopped near a small brook , and when I first discovered her , she had stooped beside it , and taking a knife from her pocket , she opened a vein in her little arm , and dipping a feather in the blood , wrote something on a piece of white cloth , which was spread before her . 
She rose with a face pale as marble , and looking round timidly , she muttered a few words too low to meet my ear ; then taking a stick and marking out a large circle on the margin of the stream , she stept into the magic ring , walked round three times with measured tread , then carefully retraced her steps backward , speaking all the while in a distinct but trembling voice . 
She looked round anxiously as she completed the ceremony ; and I almost echoed her involuntary shriek of terror , when I saw a young Indian spring forward into the centre . 
`` Wherefore did you come hither , '' replied the maiden , after the tones of his voice had convinced her that he was real flesh and blood . 
Just as he turned to follow Mary , who was retreating from the woods , a third person made his appearance , in whom I thought I recognized young Brown , specified by Mr. Conant as the strange slip on their pleasant plants . 
Mary eagerly caught his arm , and seemed glad amid her terror and agitation , to seek the shelter of his offered protection . 
A mixed feeling of diffidence and delicacy , had induced me to remain concealed from Mary while I watched over her safety ; and the same feeling prompted me to continue where I was until she and her favoured lover were far out of sight and hearing . 
Whether the suspicion of Mary 's attachment had any thing to do with the old bachelor 's final arrangements , he saith not ; but when he again visited America , although he brought a young wife with him , I find he has not failed to speak of her wayward fate with frequent and deep-toned interest . 
Mary had sprung upon a jutting rock , and her sylph-like figure afforded a fine contrast to the decaying elegance of her mother , who was leaning on her arm , the cheerful countenance of Mr. Oldham 's buxom daughter , and the tall , athletic form of Hobomok , who stood by her side , resting his healthy cheek upon the hand which supported his bow . 
Mary 's eyes overflowed with the intense , unrestained gush of youthful feeling . 
`` That is Corbitant , '' said Mary , -- `` What is it that he says ? '' 
Mrs. Conant took the arm of her husband , and Mary lingered far behind , in hopes of obtaining a conference with Sally Oldham . 
Whenever Hobomok gazed upon Mary , it was with an expression in which reverence was strikingly predominant . 
Sally gladly left her discomfited lover to recover himself as he could , and bidding a hasty good-morning to Hobomok , as he stood laughing and muttering to himself , she followed Mary , who with an air of girlish confidence had beckoned her into a narrow footpath which led through the woods . 
`` Men of sense will speak all in good time , if you will wait patiently , '' answered Mary . 
`` I am sure , '' replied Mary , `` when you remember how many Indians we have lately met , whom Morton 's unthinking wickedness has armed with powder and firelocks , you will be glad that we have three hundred more defenders around us , whatever price we may pay therefor . 
`` I ca n't but admire ye 've been content so long , Miss Mary , considering what ye left behind you . 
`` O , do n't name such a thing , '' said Mary , shuddering . 
`` I 'm sure I do n't know , Mary . 
`` I do n't know how it was , '' replied Mary , with a deep sigh . 
Her only consolation during this period was in recounting to Mary the numerous acts of gallantry she had received from her Plymouth lovers . 
The young man whom she had seen upon the beach , on the morning of the 28th , had a kinder remembrance than all his competitors ; and when she heard that he had walked from Plymouth , with Hobomok for his guide , in the true spirit of female vanity , she judged that nothing but her own pretty face was the object of his journey . 
Still it seemed she had some fears about his diffidence , for when she had taken her milking-pail and quietly seated herself beside the miserable pile of logs and boughs , which she dignified with the name of a cow-house , she muttered to herself , `` I wish Collier was a little easier to take a hint . '' 
Her cogitations were interrupted by a well known voice , which had become associated in Sally 's mind with nought but `` the crackling of thorns . '' 
Mrs. Oldham , with a slight tincture of the modern policy of mothers , had gone out to `` neighbour Conant 's , '' when Sally first began to read the foregoing ; and luckily she was not there to witness the vexed and disappointed looks of her daughter . 
* Hobomok saves his tears for the white-faced daughter of Conant , and his blood for the arrow of Corbitant , that his kinswoman may be avenged . '' 
He had left Pokanecket 's daughter , because he loathed the idea of marriage with her ; but he never had thought , and till now he never had been told , that Mary Conant was the cause . 
Soon after her arrival at Plymouth , Mary had administered cordials to his sick mother , which restored her to life after the most skilful of their priests had pronounced her hopeless ; and ever since that time , he had looked upon her with reverence , which almost amounted to adoration . 
A few moments brought in view the settlement of Salem ; and amid the lights , which here and there twinkled indistinctly through the trees , he quickly distinguished the dwelling of Mary Conant . 
Duringtheir solitary stay at Naumkeak , wasted as the young colony had been with sickness , famine , and fearful apprehension , the buoyant spirits and kind heart of Sally Oldham , had proved an almost solitary source of enjoyment to Mary Conant . 
Indeed it seemed as if the chilling storms , which had lowered over the young life of Mary Conant , had not only served to call forth the fervid hues of feeling in their full perfection , but had likewise strengthened her native elegance of mind . 
The intellectual , like the natural sun , sheds its own bright and beautiful lustre on the surrounding gloom , till every object on which it shines seems glowing into life ; and amid all the dreariness of poverty , and the weight of affliction -LRB- the heavier , that it was borne far from the knowledge and sympathy of the world -RRB- , Mary found much to excite her native fervor of imagination . 
But all associations of this nature formed a `` sanctum sanctorum '' in the recesses of Mary 's heart , and Sally Oldham was one of the last to penetrate it . 
But whether the understanding finds reciprocation or not , the heart must have sympathy ; and amid the depression of spirits , naturally induced by the declining health of her mother , and the disheartening influence of the stern , dark circle in which she moved , Mary found a welcome relief in unlocking all her hopes , fears , and disappointments to her untutored friend . 
Her usual placid state of feeling had been restored by the ample confession she had made concerning an action , which she more than half feared would call down the vengeance of Heaven upon her ; and when Hobomok entered the room , after the excursion mentioned in the last chapter , she was quietly seated amid the circle , which had assembled at her father 's house . 
His long residence with the white inhabitants of Plymouth had changed his natural fierceness of manner into haughty , dignified reserve ; and even that seemed softened as his dark , expressive eye rested on Conant 's daughter . 
Mr. Conant returned to his family , and Mary , inured to such occurrences , slept peacefully within their humble dwelling , unconscious that Hobomok watched it the livelong night , with eyes that knew no slumber . 
All the people that were near , called at Mr. Conant 's , one after another , to hear the extent of the danger to which they had been exposed , till Mary and her mother were weary of repeating the story . 
`` Mother , '' said Mary , after their guests had all departed , `` you know father has gone to Plymouth for two or three days ? '' 
Mary hesitated a few moments ere she added , `` I have seen Charles Brown this morning ; and he is coming here this evening , that is , if you have no objection thereto . '' 
`` You well know my heart , my dear Mary , '' replied her mother , `` but I ought not to do wrong because your father is absent . '' 
`` You do n't think it is wrong -- in your conscience you ca n't think it 's wrong , '' said Mary , as she kissed her forehead , and looked up archly in her face . 
And , pausing a moment , she continued , `` Perhaps I do wrong thus to violate the injunctions of my husband , but I know you are prudent , and you may e ` en follow your own dictates concerning this matter . '' 
He had known Mary before she left the mansion of her noble grandfather ; and the remembrance of the little fairy just blushing into womanhood had proved powerful enough to draw the ambitious young lawyer from the fair hopes of distinction in England , to the wild and romantic scheme of establishing the Episcopal mitre in the forests of America . 
With all Mary 's habitual sweetness of disposition , this course of conduct did serve to diminish her filial respect and affection . 
She had no sympathy with her father 's religious scruples , for her heart very naturally bowed down before the same altar with the man she loved . 
None could form an idea of the depth and fervor of her affection , who had not , like her , left a bright and sunny path , to wander in the train of misery , gloom , and famine . 
During her stay at her grandfather 's , she had become familiar with much that was beautiful in painting , and lovely in sculpture , as well as all that was elegant in the poetry of that early period ; and their rich outline was deeply impressed upon her young heart . 
For her mother 's sake , she endured the mean and laborious offices which she was obliged to perform , but she lived only in the remembrance of that fairy spot in her existence . 
Alone as she was , without one spirit that came in contact with her own , she breathed only in the regions of fancy ; and many an ideal object had she invested with its rainbow robe . 
When at length she found a being who understood her feelings , and who loved , as she had imagined love , her whole soul was rivetted . 
The harshness of her father tended to increase this , by rendering the stream of affection more undivided in its source . 
The remembrance of her own thwarted inclinations wrought powerfully on the mind of Mary 's gentle and affectionate mother , and she at length gave their meeting her unqualified consent . 
The bowl of chocolate was prepared that night with even more careful fondness than usual ; and as Mrs. Conant at an early hour laid her head upon the pillow , she was just preparing to say , `` I fear I do wrong , my child , '' but Mary kissed away the sentence . 
The absence of so many of the inhabitants , and the fear of some fresh alarm , made it expedient that the outskirts of the settlement should be guarded , and Mary well knew that Brown was on that duty . 
In expectation of his arrival , she stationed herself at the door , and looked out upon the still brightness around . 
`` Fair planet , '' thought Mary , `` how various are the scenes thou passest over in thy shining course . 
`` The moon has seemed to rise slowly and wearily since I have been looking out for you , '' said the maiden , as her lover gaily imprinted a kiss upon her hand . 
`` I have been watching it , '' answered Mary , `` till it hath almost made me sad . 
Besides , my dear Mary , I trust we shall both live in England again . '' 
I know not why it is , but , in minds of a certain tone , the richest melody of love is always mingled with notes of sadness ; and , in the full communion of unreserved tenderness , the maiden leaned her head upon the shoulder of the young man , and wept in silence . 
`` My dear Mary , '' said Brown , `` it is not well to be melancholy . 
`` I know it too , '' replied Mary ; `` but her counsels have little weight with him when he has determined upon a course . 
`` Do you think you could endure so much for me , Mary ? '' 
asked her lover , while his bright dark eye rested with more than usual admiration on the passive beauty of her countenance . 
`` A cold heart may make promises and protestations , '' she replied ; `` and when we dream of love we are always too apt to think of the paradise , rather than the thorny hedge which the sin of Adam has placed around it ; but let the storm come upon you , Charles , and see if my head shrink from the tempest . '' 
`` And is n't it so with the path of love , my Mary ? '' 
`` That twenty Indians have been surprised in a plan of setting fire to the house of that wise and godly man , Mr. Roger Conant , '' rejoined the traveller . 
`` Oh , Mary , '' said she , `` what shall I do ? 
`` I always wondered how you could have spoken to Mr. Collier after such a fashion , '' replied Mary . 
So the pen and ink was brought forward , and Mary wrote a letter which she indited as follows : `` Reverende Sirs , `` Wheras Mr. Collier hathe beene supposed to blame concerning some businesse he hath of late endeavoured to transacte for Mr. Hopkins , this cometh to certifie that he did faithfully performe his dutie , and moreover that his great modestie did prevente his understanding many hints , until I spoke even as he hath represented . 
Mr. Collier was as frequent a visitor as distance and difficulty of travelling would permit ; Hobomok divided his time almost equally between his mother 's wigwam , and the dwelling of Mr. Conant ; and Mary obtained a `` paradisaical interview '' with Brown , as often as possible ; Mrs. Conant , sinking in a slow , but certain decline , seemed `` Like a spirit who longs for a purer day , And is ready to wing her flight away ; '' her husband , prudent , moderate , and persevering in public affairs , -- at home , sometimes passionate , and always unyielding ; and Mr. Oldham , the same as ever , an odd mixture of devotion and drollery . 
Sally listened to all their arguments with heedless gaiety ; Mary heard their wild war of words , with increased weariness ; and as her noble mother approached the confines of another world , and received its calm , heavenly influence , she looked with compassion on the wild and ever-varying light of human doctrines . 
Mary sat on the left hand of the bride , and their countenances , both interesting , presented a striking contrast of beauty . 
But Mary 's slender figure , her large , dark eyes , with their deep , melancholy fringe , and the graceful carriage of her neck and shoulders , brought before the mind a Parian statue , or one of those fair visions which fancy gives to slumber . 
`` Alas , that things so fair should be so fleeting , '' has been repeated thousands of times ; and yet how keenly it still enters into the soul , when early fascinations have faded away , and imagination has scattered her garland to the winds . 
At length , however , she ventured to raise her hand to her mouth , and whisper to Mary , `` I asked Brown to come to-day ; and then I told him not to come ; because it would make trouble for you . '' 
`` It was said in Lincolnshire , '' observed Mary , who was anxious to change the conversation , `` that love was the occasion of his coming hither ; and that if a young lady in Huntingdonshire had smiled upon him , he had not been thus wedded to his canonical robe . '' 
To Mary , its full maturity seemed but the shadow of coming decay ; and her dark eye rested upon Brown , as he walked before her in manly elegance , with a chastened tenderness that partook of sadness . 
All this while , Mary , who had taken a cross path with Mr. and Mrs. Collier , found means to linger behind , and hear many kind things from Brown . 
If you will give me notice when they begin to disperse , I will go directly to Mr. Conant 's ; for I must see Mary to-night . '' 
One moment he was invested in the civil gown , the applause of princes and nobles resounding in his ears ; -- and the next presented Mary restored to her original rank , and shining amid the loveliest and proudest of the land . 
She too , had had many bitter thoughts ; for she well knew the temper of the souls about her , and she felt that the decree of the assembly could not be otherwise than it had proved . 
Whenever Mary thought of the possibility of separation , and of late she had frequently feared that the time would soon come , she had felt that the youth was still dearer and dearer to her heart . 
And now when she heard him announce the speedy certainty of this , her pale lip quivered , and in the silent unreserve of hearts long wedded to each other , she threw herself sobbing on his neck , her slender arms clinging around him , in all the energy of grief . 
Remember , dear Mary , what I owe to your father . '' 
Then these unhappy differences had never arisen , and with my Mary , I could happily have shared a log hut in the wilderness . 
But , Mary , it will not be always thus -- You will come to England and be my wife . '' 
Mary looked at her mother and sighed . 
Nay , do not weep , Mary ; I know that you are willing to bear the burden , and that you have been kind and cheerful beneath it ; but the shadows of life are fleeting more dimly before me , and I feel that I must soon be gathered to my fathers . '' 
`` No , '' continued she , `` like the wife of Abraham , I must be buried far from my kindred . 
I loved my husband , -- nor have I ever repented that I followed him hither ; but oh , Mary , I would not have you suffer as I have suffered , when I have thought of that solitary old man . 
`` Dear mother , '' replied Mary , `` you know that grandfather loves you , and has long since forgiven you . 
`` Well , Mr. Brown , '' said she , `` Mary will write a letter to her grandfather , and when you deliver it , give him therewith the duty and affection of his dying daughter . 
I could wish that Mary might be always with her father . 
He loves her , notwithstanding his conscientious scruples cause him to seem harsh ; and perhaps she might feel happier when her days are numbered like mine . 
`` Wherever I am , '' replied Brown , `` my home shall be most gladly shared with Mary 's father . 
`` I am glad to hear you speak so , '' interrupted Mary . 
`` Oh , Charles , do n't stir up their enemies in England , '' said Mary . 
`` I would not hurt a hair of their heads , if I could , '' rejoined her lover ; `` and sorry am I that my unruly tongue led me far beyond my reason in this matter . 
`` I can not think with you and Mary , '' observed Mrs. Conant , `` about forms and ceremonies . 
`` Bless me , '' exclaimed Mary , `` here is father at the very doors . '' 
Her lover hastily relinquished her hand , and she sprang from his side ; but there was no chance for him to retreat . 
Pride was struggling hard for utterance , as Brown moved towards the door ; but for Mary 's sake it was repressed -- and before the old man was aware of his purpose , he stept back and took the hand of the mother and daughter , as he said , `` God bless you both . 
Mary rushed into her apartment , and hiding her face in the bed clothes , gave free vent to her tears . 
Her father 's supper must be prepared , and her mother 's wants must not be neglected ; and , with as much serenity as she could assume , she again appeared in his presence . 
The cake was burned , -- and the milk was not sweet , -- and there had been too much fire to prepare their little repast ; till wearied out with his continual fretfulness , they both retired to their beds at an early hour , and Mary sobbed herself into an uneasy slumber . 
In vain Mary tried to recognize its certainty enough to prepare the letter which he was to convey . 
It was not until the day before the dreaded event , that the solicitations of her mother prevailed on her to commence the task ; and when she did , the pen remained uplifted , and the stainless sheet lay for a long time before her , while she pressed her hand upon her brow in a bewilderment of misery . 
She wrote `` Deare Grandfather , '' -- but could proceed no further . 
By him she had been reared with more than tenderness , like some fair and slender blossom in his gardens . 
There she had been the little idol of the brilliant circle . 
There too , she had first seen Charles Brown , and mingled with him in the graceful evolutions of the dance , while her young heart in vain strove to be proof against the intoxicating witchery of light and motion . 
And there , as she gazed on his lofty forehead , stamped with the proud , deep impress of intellect , and watched the changeful lustre of his dark , eloquent eyes , that alternately beamed with high or tender thoughts , she too became covetous of mental riches , and worshipped at the shrine of genius . 
`` With all love and reverence , `` Your Affectionate and Dutifull Childe , `` Mary Conant . '' 
My kinde Mary is mistaken in thinking I shall long sojourne upon Earthe . 
God Almighty bless you , is the prayer of `` Your loving Daughtere , `` Mary Conant . '' 
Mr. Conant had given commands which his wife dared not disobey , and seemed more than ever inclined to keep watch upon Mary 's motions . 
In this dilemma she resolved to tax the ready wit of her friend Sally ; but when she sought Mrs. Collier for that purpose , she found her ready equipped for a journey . 
asked Mary . 
`` And you are going away from Salem then , for -- always , '' said Mary , as the tears came to her eyes . 
`` You used to tell me to trust in God , '' replied her friend , `` and perhaps I did wrong that I did not think more of such sober talk . 
I declare , I did not suppose any thing would have made me so sorry to go back to Plymouth , '' added she , and the ready tears of sympathy trickled down her cheeks . 
`` Well , good-bye , '' said Mary , as she threw her arms round her neck in the full tide of girlish affection . 
At another time Mary would have mourned bitterly over the loss of her old associate ; but now in the selfishness of more weighty sorrows , she hardly expended a thought upon it . 
Her whole mind was occupied in devising a method of seeing Brown , free from interruption . 
At the instigation of Mr. Brown , the widow Willet -LRB- whose red cardinal gave such offence to Mr. Oldham -RRB- , was induced to request Mary 's company through the night , under pretence of her son 's absence . 
Once arrived within her dwelling , the sorrowful young couple were left to an undisturbed discourse upon their present prospects and future plans . 
Brown rested his arm upon Mary 's shoulder , and pointed to the rising light , as he said , `` It is the signal of separation . 
`` Oh , '' replied Mary , `` were it not for the hope of speedy re-union , how gladly would I now lay down my aching head deep , deep , in the cold earth . '' 
`` Talk not so sadly , Mary , '' answered her lover . 
`` If your mother lives long , I shall again come to America , at least for a season ; and if she dies , you will soon return to your grandfather , who will make us both happy . '' 
`` Alas , Charles , '' replied she , `` it makes me shudder to think of the wickedness of such devoted love . 
For some moments he stood silently clasping her to his heart . 
He moved from her , and made a reluctant motion toward the table where he had placed his hat -- walked across the room again and again -- looked out upon the increasing light , and cursed its swiftness ; at length , a loud , shrill blast came upon the morning air ; `` 'T is the last signal for all to be on board , '' exclaimed he ; `` and now I mustdepart . '' 
She sprung to his embrace , and his arms twined round her , `` and clung as they would cling forever . '' 
The maiden slowly returned to her father 's house , sick , exhausted , and weary of life . 
Mary could not follow the multitude to the beach , and give the sacredness of her grief to the vulgar gaze ; but she sought a woody , retired hill , and watched the departure of her lover 's vessel , which with spreading sails , was soon seen wheeling from the shore . 
It again waved toward the thicket , and Mary knew that her last token of love had not passed unobserved . 
Her intense and eager gaze was never turned from the object , until the red-cross flag indistinctly mingled with the horizon . 
Mary looked on the bright , blue expanse of water before her . 
The deep furrows , which had so lately marred its beauty , had all passed away , as suddenly as the tribulations of boyhood ; and as she turned away from that smooth surface , she , for the first time , realized what she had as yet shrunk from acknowledging , the cheerless , utter solitude of the heart . 
At such seasons , he was all vigor and elasticity ; and none returned more heavily laden with furs and venison , than the tawny chieftain . 
The best of these spoils were always presented to the `` child of the Good Spirit , '' as he used to call Mary ; and never to Squantam or Abbamocho had he paid such unlimited reverence . 
Perhaps Mary smiled too complacently on such offerings ; perhaps she listened with too much interest , to descriptions of the Indian nations , glowing as they were in the brief , figurative language of nature . 
Be that as it may , love for Conant 's daughter , love deep and intense , had sunk far into the bosom of the savage . 
The untutored chief knew not the strange visitant which had usurped such empire in his heart ; if he found himself gazing upon her face in silent eagerness , 't was but adoration for so bright an emanation from the Good Spirit ; if something within taught him to copy , with promptitude , all the kind attentions of the white man , 't was gratitude for the life of his mother which she had preserved . 
He understood little of the dark divinity which he attempted to teach , and could not comprehend wherein the traditions of his fathers were heathenish and sinful ; but with Mary and her mother , he felt no such restraint , and there he was all eloquence . 
`` Hobomok brought you fur for moccassins , '' said he , as he handed them to Mary . 
`` How very soft it is , '' said she , showing it to her mother . 
inquired Mary . 
`` Well , '' rejoined Mary , `` I hope they 'll bring more such handsome fur hither . 
asked Mary . 
rejoined Mary . 
But Indian can love , '' said he , as he stooped low , and looked up in Mary 's face . 
`` Oh , they are coming out by torch-light , '' exclaimed Mary , `` as Hobomok says the western Indians do . 
asked Mary . 
`` But , '' rejoined his wife , `` two or three horses can be procured ; and if a few of the young folks will go , assuredly I see no harm therein ; more especially as you will accompany Mary . 
The window Willet agreed to come up and stay with Mrs. Conant ; and a few young women readily consented to accompany Mary , on such horses as the settlement could afford . 
His arrows were carefully selected , and the strength of his bow was tried again and again , as he occasionally turned to Mary , and boasted of the service it had always done him , in field and forest . 
Silently Mary gazed on the going down of that bright planet , and tree and shrub bowed low their spangled plumes in homage to her retiring majesty , till her oblique rays were only to be seen in faint and scattered radiance , on the cold , smooth surface of the earth . 
Mr. Conant held the rein of Mary 's horse , and guided his footsteps along the rough and narrow path . 
Hobomok walked by her side , as silent and thoughtful as he usually was in the presence of her father . 
The pale loveliness of Mary 's face , amid the intense cold of the night , seemed almost as blooming as her ruddy companions ; and the frozen beauty of the surrounding woods again flashed brightly beneath the unwonted glow of those artificial rays . 
The arrow of Hobomok was already drawn to the head , when Mary touched his shoulder , as she said , `` Do n't kill it , Hobomok -- do n't ; '' but the weapon was already on the wing , and from his hand it seldom missed its mark . 
As he brought it up to Mary , the glossy brown of its slender sides was heaving with the last agonies of life , and she turned away from the painful sight . 
The girls could not understand what was spoken by the contending savages ; but they saw that a quarrel was likely to ensue , and Mary whispered to her father to guide them homeward . 
Notwithstandingthe occasional excitements which we have mentioned , the winter passed wearily away ; and to Mary , the moral as well as the natural atmosphere , was chill and heavy . 
The earth , in this cold , northern climate , wore one uniform robe of state -- her spotless ermine , studded with jewels . 
Even in this dress , she displayed much to excite a poetic imagination and a devotional heart ; but the souls of men were not open to the influence of nature . 
Mary grew more and more weary of the loneliness of unreciprocated intellect ; and when she thought of Brown , it seemed as if winter would never depart . 
But though the wings of time appeared clogged , and folded about him in heaviness , he wheeled the same course through the sky ; and Spring was soon seen peeping from the sunny gates of heaven , and strewing her wild-flower wreath along the woods . 
Mary had known the lady Arabella in Lincolnshire , and she now kept an almost constant watch upon the seashore , in the eager anticipation of meeting with her friend . 
Perhaps even that friend was frequently forgotten in the thoughts of one still dearer ; for she had heard nothing from Brown since his departure , and her heart grew sick with `` hope deferred . '' 
It was late in May , when , as she was walking by the seashore , gazing on the bright scene , to her so painfully associated , she espied two vessels under full sail , and her spirits danced with the certainty of intelligence from her lover , if not his actual presence . 
Another fortnight passed slowly away , and it was rumored that one of the Arabella company had safely arrived at Shawmut ; but still there came no intelligence to hush the tumult of Mary 's hopes and fears . 
A tall , dignified looking lady descended from the vessel , and scarcely had the exclamations , `` My dear Mary , '' and `` My dear Lady Arabella , '' escaped their lips , ere they were fast locked in each other 's arms . 
`` Come , '' said Mary , `` I know you will be glad to enter any dwelling , after this voyage ; and my dear mother will be impatient to be introduced to you . '' 
`` Yes , '' replied Mary ; `` but she is sinking away , like a decaying lamp . '' 
`` This is my mother , '' continued she , as she entered and placed Lady Arabella 's hand within Mrs. Conant 's . 
`` And is Mary cheerful under all these privations ? '' 
`` Two or three years ' residence so far from the busy world hath made her matronly before her time . 
`` How I wish I could see him , '' said Mary . 
`` Yes , '' said her husband , `` many godly men are turning their faces hitherward ; and many of the wealthy and noble of our land are devoting their riches to the building up of Zion . '' 
Mary 's face flushed with conscious triumph , at this mention of her lover 's honorable conduct ; and even her father was surprised into something like respect . 
`` And yet , '' said Mary , `` he is very courteous , and when he unbends the bow , you would think loving was all his trade . 
`` I have come into the wilderness too , '' rejoined her friend ; `` and I must learn to eat hominy and milk , and forget the substantial plum puddings of England . 
But ` sweet is a dinner of herbs where love is , ' '' said she , as her eye rested on her husband , with all the pride of woman 's affection . 
She touched a sensitive chord , and Mary hastily turned away , to conceal the starting tears . 
`` Come , move to the table , Mr. Johnson , '' said her father ; `` and you too , Lady Arabella ; and after we have craved a blessing thereon , we will partake of pilgrims ' fare . '' 
`` I am going to try some of Mary 's pumpkin and milk . '' 
`` You must ask Mary about him , '' replied Mrs. Conant , smiling . 
`` She loves to hear his long stories about the Iroquois , which he learned of one of their chiefs who came hither many years ago ; and his account of the ancestors of some neighboring tribe , who , as he saith , were dropped by an eagle on an island to the south . '' 
Several hours past before the Lady Arabella 's chest was brought on shore ; and though Mary 's heart was throbbing high with expectation , she made no inquiries concerning letters from England . 
With provoking delay , she handed another package to Mary , as she said , `` This is from brother George . '' 
It was a neat edition of Spenser 's Fairy Queen , written within , in his lordship 's own hand , `` To Miss Mary Conant . 
`` And this , '' continued Lady Arabella , `` is likewise from Earl Rivers , who desired that Mary would open it in her own apartment . '' 
Mary half suspected that her friend noticed the painful suffusion which covered her face and neck , and the package which she supposed contained news , to her more important than any thing else in the world , was placed in her little bedroom with affected indifference , and was not touched till every article of household work was completed with even more deliberate neatness than usual . 
Give my fervente love to Mary . 
She is too sweete a blossom to bloome in the deserte . 
He is a man of porte and parts , and peradventure she maye see the time when her dutie and inclination will meete together . 
The greye hairs of her olde Grandefather maye be laide in the duste before that time ; but she will finde he hath nott forgotten her sweete countenance and gratious behaviour . 
The unqualified kindness of her repenting father proved too much for the weak nerves of his disobedient child ; and for a long time Mary and her friend hung over her in a fearful anxiety , lest the blow should hasten a departure , which they all saw must soon come . 
Mary willingly improved this opportunity to examine the contents of her package . 
A prayer book , bound in the utmost elegance of the times , first met her view . 
Mary hardly paused to look at the valuable present in her eagerness to read the following lines . 
`` Deare Mary , `` How many times I should have written to you , could I have devised any waye for it to come safely into your hands , I leave your own hearte to judge . 
The Protestants banished by Mary , thirste for the bloode of Charles ; sending out their poisoned arrows from Geneva and the Netherlands with all the acrimonie of exile . 
It contained a handsome gown , which Brown had once playfully promised her for a wedding dress . 
A letter from the Earl of Rivers was bound up with the prayer book which he sent to his `` Deare grandedaughtere ; '' but the import of it was so similar to her mother 's , that I forbear to copy it . 
Last of all , though the first opened , was a miniature likeness of Brown ; and Mary gazed upon it till the eyes seemed laughing and beaming , in all the brilliancy of life , then turned away and wept that the mockery of the pencil had such power to cheat the heart . 
A small rough box placed upon a trunk , was all Mary 's toilette . 
And now there reposed upon it the miniature of her lover , in its glittering enclosure ; and a splendid prayer-book printed for the royal family . 
As Mary looked upon them , and thought of her present situation , she felt that it was ill-judged kindness thus forcibly to remind her of what she had left . 
Her meditations were interrupted by the sound of Lady Arabella 's footsteps , and she hastily removed the rich articles which covered her table . 
No one could have more conscientious horror of the form of church worship established by the first defender of the faith , and either from opinion or policy , supported by three successive monarchs ; but personal respect for Mr. Brown , and affectionate interest in Mary , overcame in some degree the narrow prejudices of the times , and the secret was faithfully preserved . 
It contained , as he had mentioned , a large , handsome Bible , written within , in the trembling hand of age , `` For my beloved daughtere , the Ladye Mary . '' 
He met the anxious look of Mary , who was timidly watching the changes of his countenance . 
From his softened mood she argued that her grandfather 's expressions concerning Brown , had met with no very unfavorable reception ; but however the old man 's worldly pride might have been affected by such honorable mention of his name , it was all concealed , beneath a deep shade of rigidity , as he said , `` I have but two things whereof to complain , -- the one in the letter , the other in the book ; and they are both things which my soul hateth . 
Mr. Conant , stern as he was , felt that a sigh or groan from the woman whom he had so long and sincerely loved , had power to stir up those deep recesses of feeling , which had for years been sealed within his soul ; and Mary 's heart was ready to burst with keen and protracted anguish , when she saw death standing with suspended dart , taking slow , but certain aim , at two endeared victims . 
`` What would you say , Mary ? '' 
If Brown comes back , you must remember our own thwarted love , and deal kindly with Mary . 
She hath been a good child ; and verily the God who had mercy on our unconverted souls , will not forsake her . 
Mary and her father gently raised her , and turned her toward the little window . 
She looked on her husband , with the celestial smile of a dying saint , as she said , `` I die happy in the Lord Jesus . 
`` I have nothing to forgive , '' she replied . 
She reached out her hand to Mary -- `` For my sake , '' added she , `` be as dutiful to your good father as you have been to me . '' 
`` I will -- I will , '' answered Mary , as she , sobbing , hid her face in the bedclothes . 
She spoke no more for several hours . 
At length , Mr. Conant , who remained close by her side , heard her whisper , in low and broken tones , `` My dear husband . '' 
She attempted to extend her hand toward him , but the blindness of death was upon her , and it feebly sunk down by her side . 
As her husband placed it within his , she murmured , `` I can not see you , dear Roger . 
Mary likewise bent over her , and kissed her cold cheek . 
Her breathings soon became shorter and more disturbed , and the last agonies seemed passing over her . 
Mr. Conant placed his hand upon her heart -- its pulse no longer throbbed . 
He held the taper before her mouth -- no breath was there to move the steady flame . 
Mary uttered an involuntary shriek , and sunk upon her knees . 
He stood by the corpse of her , who for twenty years had lain in his bosom , and he heeded not that the big , bright tears fell fast upon the bed . 
Then , taking the ring from her finger , `` Give this to Mary '' said she ; `` and when she looks thereon , bid her think to what all human enjoyment must come . 
Mary handed down the Bible ; and her father read the 88th Psalm , without evincing any other emotion than the slight quivering of his lip and the gathering moisture of his eye . 
He entered Mr. Conant 's dwelling , and slightly partook of the food which Mary 's assiduous kindness prepared for him . 
There were some in the settlement in whom Mary might have found as much sympathy as she ever met from her old associate , but she knew them not ; and when the heart is oppressed with many sorrows , it shrinks from the task of initiating a stranger into all its mysteries of thought and feeling . 
With none therefore , had Mary any thing like communion . 
Sometimes she would think of asking her father 's permission to return to England ; and then the prospect of Brown 's arrival the ensuing spring , would determine her to await his motions . 
This hope enabled her to discharge her daily duties with tolerable cheerfulness ; but twilight generally saw the melancholy maiden seated by her mother 's grave . 
At such seasons her imagination would be busy with the light , silvery clouds , as they hurried along the sky in every variety of form and hue . 
It was a mild evening at the commencement of October , when , as she had seated herself as usual to pursue this fanciful amusement , her attention was suddenly arrested by the singular appearance of one of those capricious forms . 
It slowly floated along the atmosphere , till it came over the place whe she stood , when it gradually descended and melted into air . 
Mary had no small share of the superstition of the times , and shuddering at the fatal omen she hastily ran to inform her father . 
Mary readily believed that the extraordinary phantom was meant for herself only ; and she immediately conjectured it foreboded evil tidings from her lover . 
The more she indulged these thoughts , the more their power increased , till their unquiet influence entirely deprived her of rest . 
At that credulous period , it is not surprising that superstition exerted her full force over a mind so prone to revel in the etherial visions of imagination . 
Whatever is their source , they sometimes come suddenly upon the mind , striking with magic force , `` the electric chain wherewith it 's darkly bound ; '' and in this instance , Mary 's fearful augury was too soon realized . 
The circumstance of Mary 's attachment was well known , and the matrons and maidens paid a passing tribute of grief , as they asked , `` How will the poor damsel bear this ? 
While people were busy with similar observations , an officious neighbour eagerly carried the unwelcome news to Mary . 
For a moment her heart reeled , and the blow threatened to suspend her faculties . 
She had become accustomed to false alarms , and she trusted this would prove to be one . 
Fallacious as she felt this hope , she could not , and would not relinquish it . 
Whatever were her feelings , they were but briefly exposed to the unfeeling curiosity of her guest . 
Her father 's supper was left half prepared , her cloak hastily thrown on , and an instant after , she entered Governor Endicott 's . 
Her importunities were all useless , and the good woman would have attempted words of comfort , had not the misery of Mary 's countenance made such an emphatic appeal to her forbearance . 
Mary spoke not ; but fixed her wild and anxious gaze on the door , until the Governor entered , when she suddenly rose and inquired . 
She had always been a great favorite with the chief magistrate , for , zealous as he was , he was not the man to look on so fair and young a creature , and hate her for her creed . 
Her question awakened his deepest sympathy , and he cast a pitying glance upon her , as he replied , `` It is all too true , Mary . '' 
Mary answered not . 
She pressed her hand hard upon her brow , and she who had been so gentle and childlike that a rough word would draw tears from her eyes , now neither wept nor sighed . 
She was about to depart , but the Governor grasped her hand affectionately as he said , `` Forgive me , my good girl , I know that your heart is full ; but I would fain remind you that we are only sojourners in this world until we can find a better ; and that whatsoever befalleth us , is meant for our eternal good . 
Mary appreciated his kindness , but she could not attend to him ; and , struggling to release her hand , she muttered an indistinct answer , and hastily quitted the house , to hide her grief from his view . 
She rested her head on a young tree which grew in the path , and tried to pray ; but , in that whirl of feeling , she could not even think , and scarcely knowing what she did , she proceeded homeward . 
Her father had finished his supper , and though he had found it unprepared , he uttered no complaint . 
Unfortunately , Mary was too absent , too distressed , to receive these tardy proofs of affection with the gratitude which kindness was always wont to excite ; so after one or two efforts to mention the painful subject , he did as he too often had done -- stifled the voice of nature , and hid all his better feelings beneath the cold mask of austerity . 
Mary , tortured with thoughts she could no longer endure in his presence , observed that she was going to dame Willet 's , and then left him to his meditations . 
Thesame restlessness which had led Mary to dame Willet 's , soon made that scene of former happiness insupportable . 
Mary could not endure the good dame 's blunt sympathy ; beside , every object which there met her view , did but remind her of her lover 's farewell interview ; so she drew her cloak around her , and prepared to depart . 
`` Mary , '' said she , `` I have done all I could to comfort you ; but verily , my dear child , I fear you are not altogether yourself . '' 
`` Assuredly I am , '' replied Mary ; `` but I can not stay here , for when I stand at that little window , it seems as if I could see him as he looked the last time I ever saw him . '' 
Notwithstanding this declaration , there was a partial derangement of Mary 's faculties . 
She sat down by her mother 's grave , and wished to weep . 
The sorrow that can be exhausted , however keen it may be , has something of luxury in it , compared with grief when her fountains are all sealed , and her stormy waters are dashing and foaming within the soul . 
Mary 's heart refused to overflow , and she laid down her head on the cold sod , in hopes it would cool the burning agony of her brain . 
As she sat thus , insensible of the autumnal chilliness , she felt something lightly thrown over her . 
She looked up , and perceived that it was Hobomok , who had covered her with his blanket , and silently removed a short distance from her . 
He approached when he saw her rise . 
`` It 's a cold night for Mary to be on the graves , '' said he . 
`` Ah , Hobomok , '' she replied , `` I shall soon be in my own grave . '' 
There was a chaos in Mary 's mind ; -- a dim twilight , which had at first made all objects shadowy , and which was rapidly darkening into misery , almost insensible of its source . 
The sudden stroke which had dashed from her lips the long promised cup of joy , had almost hurled reason from his throne . 
If she went to England , those for whom she most wished to return , were dead . 
If she remained in America , what communion could she have with those around her ? 
She remembered the idolatry he had always paid her , and in the desolation of the moment , she felt as if he was the only being in the wide world who was left to love her . 
A broken and confused mass followed ; in which a sense of sudden bereavement , deep and bitter reproaches against her father , and a blind belief in fatality were alone conspicuous . 
In the midst of this whirlwind of thoughts and passions , she turned suddenly towards the Indian , as she said , `` I will be your wife , Hobomok , if you love me . '' 
`` Then meet me at my window an hour hence , '' said she , `` and be ready to convey me to Plymouth . '' 
She returned home ; and Hobomok , overjoyed at this unexpected fortune , prepared to obey her injunctions . 
Her father was absent when she entered , and lighting a taper , she sat down in the solitary room , and alternately attempted to fix her attention on the prayer book and Bible . 
When Mary thought that she was perhaps hearing that venerable voice for the last time , her heart relented . 
She acknowledged that a sort of desperate resentment towards him , had partly influenced her late conduct ; and she asked herself , `` What if he has been harsh and restrained in his intercourse with me ? 
Perhaps this effort of dawning reason and gentler feeling would have prevailed ; but her father angrily seized the prayer book , which she had carelessly left in his way , and would have thrown it upon the fire , had she not caught his arm and rescued it from his grasp . 
Mary 's mind was just in that vacillating state when a breath would have turned her from her purpose , or confirmed it forever . 
Her heart writhing and convulsed as it was , was gentle still ; and it now craved one look of tenderness , one expression of love . 
That soothing influence she in vain sought ; and the feelings which had harrowed up her soul to that fatal resolution , again returned in their full force . 
In the unreasonableness of mingled grief and anger , she accused her father as the sole cause of her present misery ; and again she sunk under the stupifying influence of an ill directed belief in the decrees of heaven , and the utter fruitlessness of all human endeavour . 
It was strange that trouble had power to excite her quiet spirit to so much irascibility ; and powerful indeed must have been the superstition , which could induce so much beauty and refinement , even in a moment of desperation , to exchange the social band , stern and dark as it was , for the company of savages . 
Mary retired to her own room , resolved on immediate departure ; but she was not sufficiently collected to make any necessary arrangements ; she even neglected taking a change of apparel . 
However , Brown 's miniature was not forgotten ; and as it lay before her , she could think of nothing , only that the form , which once could boast so much dignified beauty , was now unshrouded and uncoffined in the deep , deep ocean , -- and imagination shuddered over the thoughts which followed . 
She placed the miniature in her bosom , and looked out upon the scenes she was so soon to leave . 
Her eye first rested upon Endicott 's Hollow , where , as she supposed , it had been first revealed to her that Hobomok was to be her husband ; and falling on her knees , `` Oh , Charles , '' murmured she , `` if thy pure spirit is looking down upon this action , forgive me , in that I do but submit to my fate . '' 
She obeyed the signal , and in a few moments she was by his side , walking toward the seashore . 
Almost every thing in their path was , in some way or other , connected with Brown ; and she would frequently pause , as she uttered some mournful and incoherent soliloquy . 
The Indian had witnessed the dreadful ruins of mind in his own tribe , and the fear of her insanity more than once occurred to him ; then again her brief answers to his questions would be so prompt and rational , that he could not admit the doubt . 
Neither of them spoke , save when Hobomok stooped on his oar , and drawing the blanket more closely around her , asked whether or not the cold was uncomfortable . 
Mary , so pale and motionless , might have seemed like a being from another world , had not her wild , frenzied look revealed too much of human wretchedness . 
The moon , it is true , pursued her heavenly path as bright and tranquil as ever ; but the passing clouds made her appear hurried and perturbed , even as the passions of men float before the mild rays of the Gospel , making them seem as troubled and capricious as their own . 
Nature too , was in her saddest robe ; and the breeze , as it swept along the variegated foliage , sounded like the dismal roarings of the distant ocean . 
Mary 's meditations were more dull , and cold , and dreary still . 
It is difficult to tell what the feelings could have been , half bewildered as they were , which led her to persevere in so strange a purpose . 
Fortunately for Hobomok , none of the inhabitants had risen , and he guided her to his wigwam unobserved . 
Full of astonishment , the grateful squaw danced , sung , and caressed Mary , with every demonstration of frantic joy . 
Hobomok endeavoured to calm her transports , and urged the necessity of forwarding the marriage immediately ; for the savage had many fears that Mary would yet shrink from the strange nuptials . 
Her son hesitated a moment , then taking some wine , which Governor Bradford had once given his sick mother , he offered it to her , as he said , `` If Mary sick , this will make her well . '' 
They spoke no English , but each one lifted his hands as he looked at Mary , and seemed to utter some exclamation of surprise . 
After this was concluded , Hobomok stept out , and looked cautiously in every direction , to see that none were approaching , then taking Mary by the hand , he led her round the wigwam , and again entered . 
The eldest of the company then presented him with a witch-hazel wand of considerable length , and having placed one end of it in Mary 's hand , the bridegroom stood waiting for the ceremony . 
To this Hobomok responded in a tone half way between singing and speaking , `` Hobomok love her like as better than himself . 
Nobody but Great Spirit know how well he loveth her . '' 
The priest then looked toward Mary , as if waiting for her answer . 
`` Tell how well you love him , '' said the Indian woman , as she touched her arm . 
Mary raised her head with a look , which had in it much of the frightful expression of one walking in his sleep , as she replied , `` I love him better than any body living . '' 
It was the one which Brown had sent , and when Mary saw it , she uttered a piercing shriek , as she pointed to it , and said , `` Send it away ! 
Her husband understood her meaning , and returning it to his pocket , he produced another . 
Mary continued listless and unmoved , apparently unconscious of any change in her situation . 
But the ceremony of that morning was past recall ; and Mary Conant was indeed the wife of Hobomok . 
He knocked at Mary 's door . 
With dreadful apprehension he looked into her apartment . 
He felt that he had , in reality , known very little of Mary , except through the medium of her mother ; and he now blamed himself that he had not given her his confidence and sympathy , instead of compelling her so cautiously to conceal her feelings . 
The words of his dying wife seemed to resound in his ears , as she said , `` Be kind to Mary for my sake ; '' and with this remembrance came the sting of self-reproach , the keenest that can enter the human soul . 
At length the idea that she might have slept at Mr. Oldham 's , or Dame Willet 's , occurred to his mind , and though he gave it little credence , it afforded a moment 's relief . 
With his usual calm appearance he entered Mr. Oldham 's dwelling , and inquired whether they had seen any thing of Mary the preceding night . 
`` I may safely say she has scarcely darkened my doors since the day Sally was married . 
Mary was as sweet a creature as ever man looked upon ; and if she be indeed missing , the boats must be had out . '' 
The application at dame Willet 's was equally unsuccessful , and the report that Mary Conant was dead , spread like wildfire through the village . 
She had been so humble , kind , and cheerful among them , and had so seldom evinced any aversion to their sentiments , that she was a universal favorite . 
The young admired her as the loveliest being they had ever beheld ; and the old , even while they held up her errors of doctrine as a warning to their children , could not refrain from adding , `` Assuredly , in many things she hath borne herself worthy of a woman professing godliness . '' 
In the meantime the search of his brethren had of course proved useless , though the supposition that Mary was drowned amounted almost to absolute certainty . 
`` For my part , '' says Dame Willet , `` I could n't go quietly to my bed till I went up and looked into Mr. Conant 's to see that Mary was at home with her father ; for she came down to my house in the evening , and she took hold of my hand till I thought it had been in a vice and she had a dreadful wild look about her . 
Poor creature , I could n't help foreboding that all was not right , when she sighed so , and said that she little thought my house was the last place where she should ever see him ; for you must know , '' continued she , `` I gave the young folks a meeting without Goodman Conant 's knowing of the same . '' 
On the third evening after Mary 's departure , the good woman and her son were absent , and Mr. Conant seated alone by his solitary fire , when Mr. Collier arrived at Mr. Oldham 's , bringing news of the lamentable fact . 
The squaw had stept out when she first went in ; but seeing somebody in the bed , Sally thought she had been sick , and so went up to speak to her , when behold , she found it was Mary Conant . 
She said she was so stupid that she did not seem to know her , and she would n't speak a word ; only when she asked if what the old squaw said , was true , she answered , Yes . 
`` But what would you say , '' asked Mr. Skelton , `` if Mary was yet alive ? '' 
`` Mary is alive and well at Plymouth , '' answered Mr. Skelton . 
The clergyman said nothing to interrupt this burst of feeling , until Mr. Conant paused and inquired , `` But why went she thither without my knowledge ? '' 
`` I can bear any thing , if so be she is alive , '' answered the distressed father . 
`` She is married to Hobomok , '' replied Mr. Skelton . 
An hour elapsed before he returned , and could Mary have foreknown the agony of that hour , she had never left the parental roof . 
God forgive me , if in aught I have rebelled against his holy will ; but assuredly I find I could more readily have covered her sweet face with the clods , than bear this ; but the Lord 's will be done . '' 
`` It behoves you to think what would have become of her unconverted soul if she had died in such a state , '' replied the minister . 
`` Goodman Collier thinks she was bereaved of reason , when she did this deed ; and peradventure the Lord may yet raise her up to be ` a burning and a shining light . '' ' 
`` For her soul 's salvation , God grant she may not be in her right mind , '' answered Mr. Conant . 
I knew that Mary loved to hear his long stories , abounding as they were with metaphors , but then the thoughtless child was always given to vain imaginations , which profit not . 
Her good mother told me , the day before she died , that Mary 's heart would always hanker after him who is now lost in the bowels of the ocean ; and I promised that I would give my assent to their marriage . 
Forseveral weeks Mary remained in the same stupified state in which she had been at the time of her marriage . 
She would lie through the livelong day , unless she was requested to rise ; and once risen , nothing could induce her to change her posture . 
Language has no power to shadow forth her feelings as she gradually awoke to a sense of her situation . 
Desolate as Mary 's lot might seem , it was not without its alleviations . 
All the kind attentions which could suggest themselves to the mind of a savage , were paid by her Indian mother . 
Hobomok continued the same tender reverence , he had always evinced , and he soon understood the changing expression of her countenance , till her very looks were a law . 
So much love could not but awaken gratitude ; and Mary by degrees gave way to its influence , until she welcomed his return with something like affection . 
True , in her solitary hours there were reflections enough to make her wretched . 
Kind as Hobomok was , and rich as she found his uncultivated mind in native imagination , still the contrast between him and her departed lover , would often be remembered with sufficient bitterness . 
Beside this , she knew that her own nation looked upon her as lost and degraded ; and , what was far worse , her own heart echoed back the charge . 
Hobomok 's connexion with her was considered the effect of witchcraft on his part , and even he was generally avoided by his former friends . 
Every wound of this kind , every insult which her husband courageously endured for her sake , added romantic fervor to her increasing affection , and thus made life something more than endurable . 
While all her English acquaintances more or less neglected her , her old associate , Mrs. Collier , firmly and boldly stemmed the tide , and seemed resolved to do all in her power to relieve the hardships of her friend . 
For a long time her overtures were proudly refused ; for Mary could not endure that the visits of one , who had been so vastly her inferior , should now be considered an honor and obligation . 
As Mary looked on the little being , which was `` bone of her bone , and flesh of her flesh , '' she felt more love for the innocent object , than she thought she should ever again experience . 
Mary 's heart was melted at these proofs of affection , when she had so little expected them ; but she well knew she should only be considered an outcast among her brethren , and she could not persuade herself that her marriage vow to the Indian was any less sacred , than any other voluntary promise . 
So she wrote to her father , implored his forgiveness , hinted at the deplorable state of mind which had led her to this extremity , stated many reasons which now rendered it impossible for her to return , even if she were so disposed , and concluded by urging him to appropriate her property to his own comfort , as she should probably never be in a situation to enjoy it . 
The old squaw had lately died of a fever , and symptoms of the same disorder began to appear in her little grandson , now nearly two years old . 
Again the father stooped and kissed him , as he answered `` Hobomok very much bad , if he did n't come back always to see little Hobomok , and his good Mary . '' 
`` Good bye , Hobomok -- Good bye , Mary '' -- said the Indian . 
`` I do n't know concerning that , '' rejoined Mary . 
`` You look as if you were sorry your old friend had returned , '' said the Englishman ; `` but do speak and tell me one thing -- Is Mary Conant yet alive ? '' 
At length , the Indian answered with deliberate emphasis , `` She is both alive and well . '' 
`` I need not ask whether she is married ? '' 
The savage looked earnestly and mournfully upon him , and sighed deeply , as he said , `` The handsome English bird hath for three years lain in my bosom ; and her milk hath nourished the son of Hobomok . '' 
`` She was first his . 
Mary loves him better than she does me ; for even now she prays for him in her sleep . 
The sacrifice must be made to her . '' 
It is three snows since the bird came to my nest ; and the Great Spirit only knows how much I have loved her . 
Good and kind she has been ; but the heart of Mary is not with the Indian . 
In her sleep she talks with the Great Spirit , and the name of the white man is on her lips . 
They will dig him a grave , and Mary may sing the marriage song in the wigwam of the Englishman . '' 
`` She is your wife . 
Keep her , and cherish her with tenderness . 
Let Mary never know that I am alive . 
Love her , and be happy . '' 
For Mary 's sake I have borne the hatred of the Yengees , the scorn of my tribe , and the insults of my enemy . 
Ask Mary to pray for me -- that when I die , I may go to the Englishman 's God , where I may hunt beaver with little Hobomok , and count my beavers for Mary . '' 
Hobomok paused before the door of his wigwam , looked in at a small hole which admitted the light , saw Mary feeding her Indian boy from his little wooden bowl , and heard her beloved voice , as she said to her child , `` Father will come home and see little Hobomok presently . '' 
`` No , '' said he ; `` it will distress her . 
I have struggled through the clouds which have gathered around me , cheered by the thought that Mary 's love would render the evening of my days tranquil and happy . 
`` What will poor Mary do ? '' 
`` Had I not known the worst , I had not so long refrained from asking after my dear Mary . '' 
He himself told me that Mary was his wife , and the mother of an Indian boy . '' 
Her husband untied it ; and when opened , it proved to be as follows : `` This doth certifie that the witche hazel sticks , which were givene to the witnesses of my marriage are all burnte by my requeste : therefore by Indian laws , Hobomok and Mary Conant are divorced . 
And this I doe , that Mary may be happie . 
The deere and foxes are for my goode Mary , and my boy . 
The behavior of the savage naturally drew forth many expressions of wonder and admiration ; and the next question was , `` How is Mary to be informed of all this ? 
She will , no doubt , be alarmed at the absence of Hobomok . '' 
`` I am going to prepare some food for Mr. Brown , '' replied Sally ; `` and after I have done that , if you will take care of little Mary , I will go and spend the night with her . 
It is so near the fort , there ca n't be any danger when there are two of us ; and perhaps to-morrow she will see Mr. Brown . '' 
The young man insisted that he needed no food ; and that he himself would stand sentinel near Mary 's wigwam , and guard her through the night . 
Sally represented the impracticability of this plan , and the terrible alarm it would give Mary , should she chance to discover him ; and after a good deal of friendly altercation , she carried her point . 
The singular circumstances were so prudently revealed , and Mary had been so much accustomed to excitement , that no violent tumult was raised within her bosom ; but she sobbed till Mrs. Collier thought her heart must break . 
A thousand times did Mary repent this resolution , notwithstanding her eagerness for the interview . 
Alternately would she weep , and then pray that blessings might rest on the head of him who had so lately been her husband ; and if she regained any thing like composure , little Hobomok , who wandered about unused to such neglect , would ask , `` What for make mamy ky so ` bout fader ; '' and his tone of infant melancholy would call forth all her sorrows afresh . 
At length the day drew toward a close ; and Mary 's pulse throbbed high when she heard those well-known footsteps approaching . 
In an instant she was at the feet of her lover , clasping his knees with a pale imploring countenance , as she said , `` Can you forgive me , Charles , -- lost and humbled as I have been ? '' 
`` The Lord judge you according to your temptations , my dear Mary , '' replied he , as he raised her to his bosom , and wept over her in silence . 
`` My temptations were many , '' said Mary , interrupting the silence . 
`` I believe it , Mary ; but where is your boy ? '' 
Mary caught him to her heart and kissed him , while the tears fell fast upon his cheeks . 
`` Those were the last words his father said to him , '' rejoined Mary , and she placed him in his arms , and turned away to conceal her emotion . 
`` I can not go to England , '' she replied . 
`` According to the Indian custom , he took the name of his mother , '' answered Mary . 
`` I called him Charles Hobomok Conant . '' 
But , my dear Mary , will you , as soon as possible , be my wife ? '' 
`` If you do not utterly despise me , '' rejoined she , in an agitated tone . 
Mary and her son removed to Mrs. Collier 's ; and a letter was immediately despatched to Mr. Conant , informing him of existing circumstances , and requesting that the marriage might be performed at his house . 
The necessary arrangements were made ; and a few days after , Mr. Brown , accompanied by Mary and her son , returned to Salem . 
It was the first time Mary had seen the town since her departure with the savage ; and on many accounts the meeting could not be otherwise than one of mingled pain and pleasure . 
Her father clasped her in a long , affectionate embrace , and never to the day of his death , referred to a subject which was almost equally unpleasant to both . 
A few weeks after their arrival , Mr. Skelton was sent for , and Mary stood beside her bridegroom , her hand resting on the sleek head of that swarthy boy . 
He , all unconscious of what was going forward , gave little heed to the hand which was intended to restrain his restless motions ; for now he would be wholly concealed behind his mother 's dress , and now , one rougeish black eye would slily peep out upon his favorite companion , the laughing little Mary Collier . 
Charles Brown and Mary Conant were pronounced husband and wife , in the presence of her father and Dame Willet , Mr. and Mrs. Oldham , and her two constant friends from Plymouth . 
