As for Mr Transome , he was as poor , half-witted a fellow as you 'd wish to see ; but she was master , had come of a high family , and had a spirit -- you might see it in her eye and the way she sat her horse . 
Before she answered him , his eyes , with a keen restlessness , as unlike as possible to the lingering gaze of the portrait , had travelled quickly over the room , alighting on her again as she said , `` Everything is changed , Harold . 
said Harold ; inwardly , however , feeling that age had made his mother 's face very anxious and eager . 
-LRB- Here Harold lifted his arm and spread out his plump hand . -RRB- 
She took care that they should be silent tears , and before Harold came out of the library again they were dried . 
So , by the time Harold came from the library again , the traces of tears were not discernible , except to a very careful observer . 
And he did not observe his mother carefully ; his eyes only glanced at her on their way to the North Loamshire Herald , lying on the table near her , which he took up with his left hand , as he said , `` Gad ! 
`` But your little boy , Harold -- where is he ? 
How is it he has not come with you ? '' 
`` O , I left him behind , in town , '' said Harold , still looking at the paper . 
`` I hardly think that , '' said Harold , significantly . 
For the moment she had a sickening feeling that it was all of no use that the long-delayed good fortune had come at last -- all of no use though the unloved Durfey was dead and buried , and though Harold had come home with plenty of money . 
`` Will you go to your rooms , Harold , and see if there is anything you would like to have altered ? '' 
`` Yes , let us go , '' said Harold , throwing down the newspaper , in which he had been rapidly reading almost every advertisement while his mother had been going through her sharp inward struggle . 
`` Uncle Lingon is on the bench still , I see , '' he went on , as he followed her across the hall ; `` is he at home -- will he be here this evening ? '' 
said Harold , taking his mother 's hand and drawing it under his arm ; for he had perceived that her words were charged with an intention . 
Harold , on his side , had no wish opposed to filial kindness , but his busy thoughts were imperiously determined by habits which had no reference to any woman 's feeling ; and even if he could have conceived what his mother 's feeling was , his mind , after that momentary arrest , would have darted forward on its usual course . 
`` I have given you the south rooms , Harold , '' said Mrs Transome , as they passed along a corridor lit from above , and lined with old family pictures . 
the furniture is in a bad state , '' said Harold , glancing round at the middle room which they had just entered , `` the moths seem to have got into the carpets and hangings . '' 
`` I hardly thought you could have meant that , Harold , when I found you had married a foreign wife . '' 
`` I 've held every tree sacred on the demesne , as I told you , Harold . 
said Harold , putting his hand on her shoulder . 
That will not last under my reign , '' said Harold , turning on his heel and feeling in his pockets for the keys of his portmanteaus , which had been brought up . 
`` You seem to remember some things about home wonderfully well , Harold . '' 
`` I am , at least , Harold . 
`` Yes , but the Radical sticks are growing , mother , and half the Tory oaks are rotting , '' said Harold , with gay carelessness . 
Some time or other , by some means , the estate she was struggling to save from the grasp of the law would be Harold 's . 
Harold must go and make a career for himself : and this was what he was bent on , with a precocious clearness of perception as to the conditions on which he could hope for any advantages in life . 
Like most energetic natures , he had a strong faith in his luck ; he had been gay at their parting , and had promised to make his fortune ; and in spite of past disappointments , Harold 's possible fortune still made some ground for his mother to plant her hopes in . 
His luck had not failed him ; yet nothing had turned out according to her expectations . 
Harold had gone with the Embassy to Constantinople , under the patronage of a high relative , his mother 's cousin ; he was to be a diplomatist , and work his way upward in public life . 
But his luck had taken another shape : he had saved the life of an Armenian banker , who in gratitude had offered him a prospect which his practical mind had preferred to the problematic promises of diplomacy and high-born cousinship . 
Harold had become a merchant and banker at Smyrna ; had let the years pass without caring to find the possibility of visiting his early home , and had shown no eagerness to make his life at all familiar to his mother , asking for letters about England , but writing scantily about himself . 
Mrs Transome had kept up the habit of writing to her son , but gradually the unfruitful years had dulled her hopes and yearnings ; increasing anxieties about money had worried her , and she was more sure of being fretted by bad news about her dissolute eldest son than of hearing anything to cheer her from Harold . 
Now Harold was heir to the estate ; now the wealth he had gained could release the land from its burthens ; now he would think it worth while to return home . 
When the good tidings had been sent to Harold , and he had announced that he would return so soon as he could wind up his affairs , he had for the first time informed his mother that he had been married , that his Greek wife was no longer living , but that he should bring home a little boy , the finest and most desirable of heirs and grandsons . 
Harold , seated in his distant Smyrna home , considered that he was taking a rational view of what things must have become by this time at the old place in England , when he figured his mother as a good elderly lady , who would necessarily be delighted with the possession on any terms of a healthy grandchild , and would not mind much about the particulars of the long-concealed marriage . 
But in the months which had elapsed before Harold could actually arrive , she had prepared herself as well as she could to suppress all reproaches or queries which her son might resent , and to acquiesce in his evident wishes . 
She was ignorant what sort of man Harold had become now , and of course he must be changed in many ways ; but though she told herself this , still the image that she knew , the image fondness clung to , necessarily prevailed over the negatives insisted on by her reason . 
And so it was , that when she had moved to the door to meet him , she had been sure that she should clasp her son again , and feel that he was the same who had been her boy , her little one , the loved child of her passionate youth . 
If things went wrong , if Harold got unpleasantly disposed in a certain direction where her chief dread had always lain , she seemed to foresee that her words would be of no avail . 
The keenness of her anxiety in this matter had served as insight ; and Harold 's rapidity , decision , and indifference to any impressions in others which did not further or impede his own purposes , had made themselves felt by her as much as she would have felt the unmanageable strength of a great bird which had alighted near her , and allowed her to stroke its wing for a moment because food lay near her . 
She spoke with a refined accent , in a low , quick , monotonous tone -- `` Mr Harold is drest ; he shook me by the hand in the corridor , and was very pleasant . '' 
There 's a fine presence about Mr Harold . 
Harold Transome did not choose to spend the whole evening with his mother . 
It was his habit to compress a great deal of effective conversation into a short space of time , asking rapidly all the questions he wanted to get answered , and diluting no subject with irrelevancies , paraphrase , or repetitions . 
He volunteered no information about himself and his past life at Smyrna , but answered pleasantly enough , though briefly , whenever his mother asked for any detail . 
He was evidently ill-satisfied as to his palate , trying red pepper to everything , then asking if there were any relishing sauces in the house , and when Hickes brought various home-filled bottles , trying several , finding them failures , and finally falling back from his plate in despair . 
Yet he remained good-humoured , saying something to his father now and then for the sake of being kind , and looking on with a pitying shrug as he saw him watch Hickes cutting his food . 
Mrs Transome thought with some bitterness that Harold showed more feeling for her feeble husband who had never cared in the least about him , than for her , who had given him more than the usual share of mother 's love . 
An hour after dinner , Harold , who had already been turning over the leaves of his mother 's account-books , said , `` I shall just cross the park to the parsonage to see my uncle Lingon . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Harold , quite deaf to the innuendo , and accepting the words as a simple statement of the fact . 
He was not curious about the manners of Smyrna , or about Harold 's experience , but he unbosomed himself very freely as to what he himself liked and disliked , which of the farmers he suspected of killing the foxes , what game he had bagged that very morning , what spot he would recommend as a new cover , and the comparative flatness of all existing sport compared with cock-fighting , under which Old England had been prosperous and glorious , while , so far as he could see , it had gained little by the abolition of a practice which sharpened the faculties of men , gratified the instincts of the fowl , and carried out the designs of heaven in its admirable device of spurs . 
From these main topics , which made his points of departure and return , he rambled easily enough at any new suggestion or query ; so that when Harold got home at a late hour , he was conscious of having gathered from amidst the pompous full-toned triviality of his uncle 's chat some impressions which were of practical importance . 
But since Harold meant to stand for the county , Mr Lingon was equally emphatic as to the necessity of his not quarrelling with Jermyn till the election was over . 
Jermyn must be his agent ; Harold must wink hard till he found himself safely returned ; and even then it might be well to let Jermyn drop gently and raise no scandal . 
The discovery that Harold meant to stand on the Liberal side -- nay , that he boldly declared himself a Radical -- was rather startling ; but to his uncle 's good-humour , beatified by the sipping of port-wine , nothing could seem highly objectionable , provided it did not disturb that operation . 
In the course of half an hour he had brought himself to see that anything really worthy to be called British Toryism had been entirely extinct since the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel had passed the Catholic Emancipation Bill ; that Whiggery , with its rights of man stopping short at ten-pound householders , and its policy of pacifying a wild best with a bite , was a ridiculous monstrosity ; that therefore , since an honest man could not call himself a Tory , which it was , in fact , as impossible to be now as to fight for the old Pretender , and could still less become that execrable monstrosity a Whig , there remained but one course open to him . 
It is true the Rector was helped to this chain of reasoning by Harold 's remarks ; but he soon became quite ardent in asserting the conclusion . 
Harold did not feel sure that his uncle would thoroughly retain this satisfactory thread of argument in the uninspired hours of the morning ; but the old gentleman was sure to take the facts easily in the end , and there was no fear of family coolness or quarrelling on this side . 
Harold was glad of it . 
He was not to be turned aside from any course he had chosen ; but he disliked all quarrelling as an unpleasant expenditure of energy that could have no good practical result . 
He was at once active and luxurious ; fond of mastery , and good-natured enough to wish that every one about him should like his mastery ; not caring greatly to know other people 's thoughts , and ready to despise them as blockheads if their thoughts differed from his , and yet solicitous that they should have no colourable reason for slight thoughts about him . 
The blockheads must be forced to respect him . 
Hence , in proportion as he foresaw that his equals in the neighbourhood would be indignant with him for his political choice , he cared keenly about making a good figure before them in every other way . 
His conduct as a landholder was to be judicious , his establishment was to be kept up generously , his imbecile father treated with careful regard , his family relations entirely without scandal . 
He knew that affairs had been unpleasant in his youth -- that there had been ugly lawsuits -- and that his scapegrace brother Durfey had helped to lower still farther the depressed condition of the family . 
All this must be retrieved , now that events had made Harold the head of the Transome name . 
Jermyn must be used for the election , and after that , if he must be got rid of , it would be well to shake him loose quietly : his uncle was probably right on both those points . 
But Harold 's expectation that he should want to get rid of Jermyn was founded on other reasons than his scented handkerchief and his charity-school Latin . 
Otherwise , Harold had no prejudice against him . 
In his boyhood and youth he had seen Jermyn frequenting Transome Court , but had regarded him with that total indifference with which youngsters are apt to view those who neither deny them pleasures nor give them any . 
Jermyn used to smile at him , and speak to him affably ; but Harold , half proud , half shy , got away from such patronage as soon as possible : he knew Jermyn was a man of business ; his father , his uncle , and Sir Maximus Debarry did not regard him as a gentleman and their equal . 
When Mr Jermyn was ushered into the breakfast-room the next morning , Harold found him surprisingly little altered by the fifteen years . 
He was grey , but still remarkably handsome ; fat , but tall enough to bear that trial to man 's dignity . 
Harold remembered with some amusement his uncle 's dislike of those conspicuous hands ; but as his own were soft and dimpled , and as he too was given to the innocent practice of rubbing those members , his suspicions were not yet deepened . 
`` I congratulate you , Mrs Transome , '' said Jermyn , with a soft and deferential smile , `` all the more , '' he added , turning towards Harold , `` now I have the pleasure of actually seeing your son . 
`` No , '' said Harold , shaking Jermyn 's hand carelessly , and speaking with more than his usual rapid brusqueness , `` the question is , whether the English climate will agree with me . 
I do n't think so , '' said Harold . 
`` Old people are not so easily taught to change all their ways , Harold . '' 
`` Well , they can give up and watch the young ones , '' said Harold , thinking only at that moment of old Mrs Hickes and Dominic . 
But his mother was not thinking of them only . 
Harold 's mind was busy constructing probabilities about what he should discover of Jermyn 's mismanagement or dubious application of funds , and the sort of self-command he must in the worst case exercise in order to use the man as long as he wanted him . 
Jermyn was closely observing Harold with an unpleasant sense that there was an expression of acuteness and determination about him which would make him formidable . 
said Harold , as the breakfast was advancing . 
A fourth candidate of good position , who should coalesce with Mr Debarry -- a -- '' Here Mr Jermyn hesitated for the third time , and Harold broke in . 
Otherwise he sat as he had done before , with his eyes fixed abstractedly on the frill of a ham before him , and his hand trifling with his fork . 
He did not answer immediately , but when he did , he looked round steadily at Harold . 
`` O , of course , '' said Harold , impatiently . 
''' `` Yet I should think there are some things which people who have been stationary at Little Treby could tell you , Harold , '' said Mrs Transome . 
said Harold , rising and walking along the room . 
`` Mother , '' said Harold , not angrily or with any raising of his voice , but in a quick , impatient manner , as if the scene must be got through as quickly as possible ; `` it is natural that you should think in this way . 
`` And you will put the crown to the mortifications of my life , Harold . 
She , poor woman , knew quite well that she had been unwise , and that she had been making herself disaggreeable to Harold to no purpose . 
Harold continued his walking a moment longer , and then said to Jermyn , `` You smoke ? '' 
Harold , who , underneath all the tendencies which had made him a Liberal , had intense personal pride , thought , `` Confound the fellow -- with his Mrs Jermyn ! 
`` Well , I took my hookah before breakfast , '' he said aloud ; `` so , if you like , we 'll go into the library . 
`` Sit down , sit down , '' said Harold , as they entered the handsome , spacious library . 
But he himself continued to stand before a map of the county which he had opened from a series of rollers occupying a compartment among the book-shelves . 
I understand , '' he went on , flashing a look straight at Jermyn , `` that you have not taken any conspicuous course in politics ; and I know that Labron is agent for the Debarrys . '' 
said Harold . 
`` Certainly , '' said Jermyn , inwardly irritated by Harold 's rapid manner of cutting him short . 
`` I wish this man were not so much of a talker , '' thought Harold ; `` he 'll bore me . 
We shall see , '' he said aloud , `` what can be done in the way of combination . 
Mr Transome 's want of health ; Mr Durfey 's habits -- a -- . '' 
`` I shall know what to do , sir , never fear , '' said Harold , much offended . 
`` Damn him , I 'll soon let him know that I do , '' thought Harold . 
But in proportion as he found Jermyn 's manners annoying , he felt the necessity of controlling himself . 
He despised all persons who defeated their own projects by the indulgence of momentary impulses . 
`` I understand , I understand , '' he said aloud . 
When Harold , in his ride an hour or two afterwards , encountered his uncle shouldering a gun , and followed by one black and one liver-spotted pointer , his muscular person with its red eagle face set off by a velveteen jacket and leather leggings , Mr Lingon 's first question was , `` Well , lad , how have you got on with Jermyn ? '' 
But I say , Harold , I was going to tell you , now I come to think of it , this is rather a nasty business , your calling yourself a Radical . 
said the Vicar , slapping Harold 's knee . 
`` I remove the rotten timbers , '' said Harold , inwardly amused , `` and substitute fresh oak , that 's all . '' 
But , I say , Harold , I hope you 've got a little Latin left . 
`` That wo n't do at the hustings , '' said Harold . 
`` He 's a cleverish chap , '' muttered the Vicar , as Harold rode away . 
For if the mixed political conditions of Treby Magna had not been acted on by the passing of the Reform Bill , Mr Harold Transome would not have presented himself as a candidate for North Loamshire , Treby would not have been a polling-place , Mr Matthew Jermyn would not have been on affable terms with a Dissenting preacher and his flock , and the venerable town would not have been placarded with handbills , more or less complimentary and retrospective -- conditions in this case essential to the `` where , '' and the `` what , '' without which , as the learned know , there can be no event whatever . 
For example , it was through these conditions that a young man named Felix Holt made a considerable difference in the life of Harold Transome , though nature and fortune seemed to have done what they could to keep the lots of the two men quite aloof from each other . 
There could hardly have been a lot less like Harold Transome 's than this of the quack doctor 's son , except in the superficial facts that he called himself a Radical , that he was the only son of his mother , and that he had lately returned to his home with ideas and resolves not a little disturbing to that mother 's mind . 
On this 2d of September , when Mr Harold Transome had had his first interview with Jermyn , and when the attorney went back to his office with new views of canvassing in his mind , Mrs Holt had put on her bonnet as early as nine o'clock in the morning , and had gone to see the Rev. Rufus Lyon , minister of the Independent Chapel usually spoken of as `` Malthouse Yard . '' 
`` And she reads Byron also , and admires Childe Harold -- gentlemen of unspeakable woes , who employ a hairdresser , and look seriously at themselves in the glass . '' 
The Debarrys did not yet know what Harold 's politics were . 
`` I call my friend Harold a youngster , '' said Sir Maximus , `` for , you know , I remember him only as he was when that portrait was taken . '' 
The need for an answer to this embarrassing question was deferred by the increase of inarticulate sounds accompanied by a bark from the library , and the sudden appearance at the tapestry-hung doorway of old Mr Transome with a cord round his waist , playing a very poor-paced horse for a black-maned little boy about three years old , who was urging him on with loud encouraging noises and occasional thumps from a stick which he wielded with some difficulty . 
`` How very singular -- I mean that we should not have heard of Mr Harold 's marriage . 
But he 's a charming little fellow : come to me , you round-cheeked cherub . '' 
The child has taken a dislike to me ; but he makes quite a new life for Mr Transome ; they were playfellows at once . '' 
said Sir Maximus , `` it is odd to think of Harold having been a family man so long . 
I made up my mind he was a young bachelor . 
And whom has he married ? 
Sir Maximus , occupied with old Mr Transome , had not overheard the previous conversation on that subject . 
Do n't say another word , my dear -- we shall see you again -- you and Mr Harold will come and dine with us on Thursday -- say yes , only yes . 
Sir Maximus is longing to see him ; and Philip will be down . '' 
`` I will write and let you know if Harold has any engagement for Thursday ; he would of course be happy otherwise , '' said Mrs Transome , evading the question . 
`` If not Thursday , the next day -- the very first day he can . '' 
The visitors left , and Mrs Transome was almost glad of the painful bite which had saved her from being questioned further about Harold 's politics . 
`` Harold Transome ! '' 
No ; the centre of eager talk and enjoyment was the steward 's room , where Mr Scales , house-steward and head-butler , a man most solicitous about his boots , wristbands , the roll of his whiskers , and other attributes of a gentleman , distributed cigars , cognac , and whisky , to various colleagues and guests who were discussing , with that freedom of conjecture which is one of our inalienable privileges as Britons , the probable amount of Harold Transome 's fortune , concening which fame had already been busy long enough to have acquired vast magnifying power . 
When Mr Scales 's strong need to make an impressive figure in conversation , together with his very slight need of any other premise than his own sense of his wide general knowledge and probable infallibility , led him to specify five hundred thousand as the lowest admissible amount of Harold Transome 's commercially-acquired fortune , it was not fair to put this down to poor old Miss Rumour , who had only told Scales that the fortune was considerable . 
It was in this simple way that the report of Harold Transome 's fortune spread and was manified , adding much lustre to his opinions in the eyes of Liberals , and compelling even men of the opposite party to admit that it increased his eligibility as a member for North Loamshire . 
It took no long time for Harold Transome to discover this state of things , and to see , moreover , that , except on the demesne immediately around the house , the timber had been mismanaged . 
He had not yet thoroughly investigated the various accounts kept by his mother , by Jermyn , and by Banks the bailiff ; but what had been done with the large sums which had been received for timber was a suspicious mystery to him . 
He observed that the farm held by Jermyn was in first-rate order , that a good deal had been spent on the buildings , and that the rent had stood unpaid . 
Harold had only said , in his careless yet decisive way , `` O , Jermyn be hanged ! 
Harold did not care to enter fully into the subject with his mother . 
The fact that she had been active in the management of the estate -- had ridden about it continually , had busied herself with accounts , had been head-bailiff of the vacant farms , and had yet allowed things to go wrong -- was set down by him simply to the general futility of women 's attempts to transact men 's business . 
He did not want to say anything to annoy her : he was only determined to let her understand , as quietly as possible , that she had better cease all interference . 
As to the old tenants , she only observed , on hearing Harold burst forth about their wretched condition , `` that with the estate so burthened , the yearly loss by arrears could better be borne than the outlay and sacrifice necessary in order to let the farms anew . '' 
`` I was really capable of calculating , Harold , '' she ended , with a touch of bitterness . 
But , '' Harold added , smiling and handing her a ball of worsted which had fallen , `` a woman ought to be a Tory , and graceful , and handsome , like you . 
Harold thought it was only natural that his mother should have been in a sort of subjection to Jermyn throughout the awkward circumstances of the family . 
Harold would have been disgusted with himself if he had helped to frustrate his own purpose . 
And his strongest purpose now was to get returned for Parliament , to make a figure there as a Liberal member , and to become on all grounds a personage of weight in North Loamshire . 
How Harold Transome came to be a Liberal in opposition to all the traditions of his family , was a more subtle inquiry than he had ever cared to follow out . 
Harold Transome was neither the dissolute cosmopolitan so vigorously sketched by the Tory Herald , nor the intellectual giant and moral lobster suggested by the liberal imagination of the Watchman . 
That was a nuisance ; and on the whole the world seemed rather ill-arranged , at Eton especially , where there were many reasons why Harold made no great figure . 
He was not sorry the money was wanting to send him to Oxford ; he did not see the good of Oxford ; he had been surrounded by many things during his short life , of which he had distinctly said to himself that he did not see the good , and he was not disposed to venerate on the strength of any good that others saw . 
He turned his back on home very cheerfully , though he was rather fond of his mother , and very fond of Transome Court , and the river where he had been used to fish ; but he said to himself as he passed the lodge-gates , `` I 'll get rich somehow , and have an estate of my own , and do what I like with it . '' 
This determined aiming at something not easy but clearly possible , marked the direction in which Harold 's nature was strong ; he had the energetic will and muscle , the self-confidence , the quick perception , and the narrow imagination which make what is admiringly called the practical mind . 
Since then his character had been ripened by a various experience , and also by much knowledge which he had set himself deliberately to gain . 
In fact Harold Transome was a clever , frank , good-natured egoist ; not stringently consistent , but without any disposition to falsity ; proud , but with a pride that was moulded in an individual rather than an hereditary form ; unspeculative , unsentimental , unsympathetic ; fond of sensual pleasures , but disinclined to all vice , and attached as a healthy , clear-sighted person , to all conventional morality , construed with a certain freedom , like doctrinal articles to which the public order may require subscription . 
Reduced to a map , our premises seem insignificant , but they make , nevertheless , a very pretty freehold to live in and walk over ; and so , if Harold Transome had been among your acquaintances , and you had observed his qualities through the medium of his agreeable person , bright smile , and a certain easy charm which accompanies sensuousness when unsullied by coarseness -- through the medium also of the many opportunities in which he would have made himself useful or pleasant to you -- you would have thought him a good fellow , highly acceptable as a guest , a colleague , or a brother-in-law . 
Yet Harold was a kind son : he kissed his mother 's brow , offered her his arm , let her choose what she liked for the house and garden , asked her whether she would have bays or greys for her new carriage , and was bent on seeing her make as good a figure in the neighbourhood as any other woman of her rank . 
She trembled under this kindness : it was not enough to satisfy her ; still , if it should ever cease and give place to something else -- she was too uncertain about Harold 's feelings to imagine clearly what that something would be . 
Mrs Transome felt the fatal threads about her , and the bitterness of this helpless bondage mingled itself with the new elegancies of the dining and drawing rooms , and all the household changes which Harold had ordered to be brought about with magical quickness . 
If Harold had shown the least care to have her stay in the room with him -- if he had really cared for her opinion -- if he had been what she had dreamed he would be in the eyes of those people who had made her world -- if all the past could be dissolved , and leave no solid trace of itself -- mighty ifs that were all impossible -- she would have tasted some joy ; but now she began to look back with regret to the days when she sat in loneliness among the old drapery , and still longed for something that might happen . 
The gardeners were busy at their pleasant work ; the newly-turned soil gave out an agreeable fragrance ; and little Harry was playing with Nimrod round old Mr Transome , who sat placidly on a low garden-chair . 
Mrs Transome 's face was turned the other way , and for this reason she only heard an approaching step , and did not see whose it was ; yet it startled her : it was not quick enough to be her son 's step , and besides , Harold was away at Duffield . 
She did not smile , but said , `` You knew Harold was not at home ? '' 
`` Yes ; I came to see you , to know if you had any wishes that I could further , since I have not had an opportunity of consulting you since he came home . '' 
What Jermyn was really most anxious about , was to learn from Mrs Transome whether anything had transpired that was significant of Harold 's disposition towards him , which he suspected to be very far from friendly . 
`` Harold is remarkably acute and clever , '' he began at last , since Mrs Transome did not speak . 
`` If he gets into Parliament , I have no doubt he will distinguish himself . 
He has a quick eye for business of all kinds . '' 
`` I trust he is not unkind to you in any way . 
I know his opinions pain you ; but I trust you find him in everything else disposed to be a good son . '' 
And now , Harold 's long-deferred heirship , and his return with startlingly unexpected penetration , activity , and assertion of mastery , had placed them both in the full presence of a difficulty which had been prepared by the years of vague uncertainty as to issues . 
`` That you will never quarrel with Harold . '' 
`` You must know that it is my wish not to quarrel with him . '' 
Bear anything from him rather than quarrel with him . '' 
`` A man ca n't make a vow not to quarrel , '' said Jermyn , who was already a little irritated by the implication that Harold might be disposed to use him roughly . 
said Mrs Transome , taking her hand from his arm , `` is it possible you do n't feel how horrible it would be ? '' 
There was a half-formed wish in both their minds -- even in the mother 's -- that Harold Transome had never been born . 
Mr Jermyn 's heaviest reflections in riding homeward turned on the possibility of incidents between himself and Harold Transome which would have disagreeable results , requiring him to raise money , and perhaps causing scandal , which in its way might also help to create a monetary deficit . 
The election must be won : that would put Harold in good-humour , give him something to do , and leave himself more time to prepare for any crisis . 
He was in anything but low spirits that evening . 
It was his eldest daughter 's birthday , and the young people had a dance . 
A wild idea shot through Mr Chubb 's brain : could this grand visitor be Harold Transome ? 
Excuse him : he had been given to understand by his cousin from the distant borough that a Radical candidate in the condescension of canvassing had even gone the length of eating bread-and-treacle with the children of an honest freeman , and declaring his preference for that simple fare . 
`` The good news I mean is , that a first-rate man , Mr Transome of Transome Court , has offered himself to represent you in Parliament , sirs . 
But we have some notions of beauty and fitness which withstand the centuries ; and quite irrespective of dates , it would be pronounced that at the age of thirty-four Harold Transome was a striking and handsome man . 
Harold Transome regarded women as slight things , but he was fond of slight things in the intervals of business ; and he held it among the chief arts of life to keep these pleasant diversions within such bounds that they should never interfere with the course of his serious ambition . 
Esther was perfectly aware , as he took a chair near her , that he was under some admiring surprise at her appearance and manner . 
`` I hope you are not going to let us disturb you , '' said Harold , noticing her action . 
said Harold , preparing to open the door for her . 
It was a pity the room was so small , Harold Transome thought : this girl ought to walk in a house where there were halls and corridors . 
But he had soon dismissed this chance preoccupation with Esther ; for before the door was closed again Mr Lyon had entered , and Harold was entirely bent on what had been the object of his visit . 
What would conciliate the personal regard of old Mr Lyon became a curious problem to Harold , now the little man made his appearance . 
`` I am very glad to have secured this opportunity of making your personal acquaintance , Mr Lyon , '' said Harold , putting out his hand to the minister when Jermyn had mentioned his name . 
`` I am aware -- Mr Jermyn has told me , '' said Harold , `` what good service you have done me already , Mr Lyon . 
`` Just so , '' said Harold , who was quick at new languages , and still quicker at translating other men 's generalities into his own special and immediate purposes , `` men who will be satisfied if they can only bring in a plutocracy , buy up the land , and stick the old crests on their new gateways . 
Harold Transome was not at all a patient man , but in matters of business he was quite awake to his cue , and in this case it was perhaps easier to listen than to answer questions . 
You will find me there , Mr Transome ; you have probably still many things to say to Mr Lyon . '' 
Jermyn felt that in the eyes of Harold he was appearing all the more valuable when his services were thus in request . 
`` I have no objection to the ballot , '' said Harold , `` but I think that is not the sort of thing we have to work at just now . 
Mr Lyon looked at the speaker with a pitying smile and a subdued `` h 'm -- m -- m , '' which Harold took for a sign of satisfaction . 
He was soon undeceived . 
`` Confound this old man , '' thought Harold . 
He was going to excuse himself as prudently as he could , by deferring the subject till the morrow , and inviting Mr Lyon to come to him in the committeeroom before the time appointed for his public speech ; but he was relieved by the opening of the door . 
Lyddy put in her head to say , `` If you please , sir , here 's Mr Holt wants to know if he may come in and speak to the gentleman . 
A young man , '' Mr Lyon went on , speaking to Harold , `` whom a representative ought to know -- no voter , but a man of ideas and study . '' 
`` He is thoroughly welcome , '' said Harold , truthfully enough , though he felt little interest in the voteless man of ideas except as a diversion from the subject of the ballot . 
He had been standing for the last minute or two , feeling less of a victim in that attitude , and more able to calculate on means of escape . 
`` I am glad to see Mr Holt , '' said Harold , bowing . 
He perceived from the way in which Felix bowed to him and turned to the most distant spot in the room , that the candidate 's shake of the hand would not be welcome here . 
`` Mr Lyon , '' said Felix , `` I have taken a liberty with you in asking to see Mr Transome when he is engaged with you . 
I heard that Mr Transome was here , so I ventured to come . 
I hope you will both excuse me , as my business refers to some electioneering measures which are being taken by Mr Transome 's agents . '' 
`` Pray go on , '' said Harold , expecting something unpleasant . 
But I wish to ask you , Mr Transome , whether it is with your knowledge that agents of yours are bribing rough fellows who are no voters -- the colliers and navvies at Sproxton -- with the chance of extra drunkenness , that they may make a posse on your side at the nomination and polling ? '' 
`` Certainly not , '' said Harold . 
`` I believed that you were ignorant of all this , Mr Transome , '' he ended , `` and that was why I thought some good might be done by speaking to you . 
`` Your energetic protest is needless here , sir , '' said Harold , offended at what sounded like a threat , and was certainly premature enough to be in bad taste . 
It was a constant source of irritation to him that the public men on his side were , on the whole , not conspicuously better than the public men on the other side ; that the spirit of innovation , which with him was a part of religion , was in many of its mouthpieces no more of a religion than the faith in rotten boroughs ; and he was thus predisposed to distrust Harold Transome . 
Harold , in his turn , disliked impracticable notions of loftiness and purity -- disliked all enthusiasm ; and he thought he saw a very troublesome , vigorous incorporation of that nonsense in Felix . 
But it would be foolish to exasperate him in any way . 
`` If you choose to accompany me to Jermyn 's office , '' he went on , `` the matter shall be inquired into in your presence . 
`` Doubtless , '' said the minister , who liked the candidate very well , and believed that he would be amenable to argument ; `` and I would caution my young friend against a too great hastiness of words and action . 
`` It is rather too much for any man to keep the consciences of all his party , '' said Harold . 
`` Then we had better cut the matter short , as I propose , by going at once to Jermyn 's , '' said Harold . 
`` Never fear , sir , '' said Harold , shaking Mr Lyon 's hand cordially , `` there will be opportunities . 
Harold and Felix went out together ; and the minister , going up to his dull study , asked himself whether , under the pressure of conflicting experience , he had faithfully discharged the duties of the past interview ? 
If a cynical sprite were present , riding on one of the motes in that dusty room , he may have made himself merry at the illusions of the little minister who brought so much conscience to bear on the production of so slight an effect . 
At present , looking back on that day at Treby , it seems to me that the sadder illusion lay with Harold Transome , who was trusting in his own skill to shape the success of his own morrows , ignorant of what many yesterdays had determined for him beforehand . 
Jermyn was not particularly pleased that some chance had apparently hindered Harold Transome from making other canvassing visits immediately after leaving Mr Lyon , and so had sent him back to the office earlier than he had been expected to come . 
Harold Transome , on his side , was a good deal annoyed at being worried by Felix into an inquiry about electioneering details . 
The real dignity and honesty there was in him made him shrink from this necessity of satisfying a man with a troublesome tongue ; it was as if he were to show indignation at the discovery of one barrel with a false bottom , when he had invested his money in a manufactory where a larger or smaller number of such barrels had always been made . 
It was not disgraceful to be neither a Quixote nor a theorist , aiming to correct the moral rules of the world ; but whatever actually was , or might prove to be , disgraceful , Harold held in detestation . 
In this mood he pushed on unceremoniously to the inner office without waiting to ask questions ; and when he perceived that Jermyn was not alone , he said , with haughty quickness , `` A question about the electioneering at Sproxton . 
Mr Transome , it appears , was ignorant of the affair , and does not approve it . '' 
Jermyn , looking gravely and steadily at Felix while he was speaking , at the same time drew forth a small sheaf of papers from his side-pocket , and then , as he turned his eyes slowly on Harold , felt in his waistcoat-pocket for his pencil-case . 
`` I do n't approve it at all , '' said Harold , who hated Jermyn 's calculated slowness and conceit in his own impenetrability . 
`` Mr Holt , I know , is an excellent Liberal , '' said Jermyn , just inclining his head to Harold , and then alternately looking at Felix and docketing his bills ; `` but he is perhaps too inexperienced to be aware that no canvass -- a -- can be conducted without the action of able men , who must -- a -- be trusted , and not interfered with . 
Harold was moving about in an irritated manner while Felix and Jermyn were speaking . 
He preferred leaving the talk to the attorney , of whose talk he himself liked to keep as clear as possible . 
Before Jermyn chose to answer , Harold broke in , saying , quickly and peremptorily , `` The long and the short of it is this , Mr Holt : I shall desire and insist that whatever can be done by way of remedy shall be done . 
said Harold , breaking into his most agreeable smile . 
When he was gone out , and had closed the door behind him , Harold , turning round and flashing , in spite of himself , an angry look at Jermyn , said , `` And who is Johnson ? 
Jermyn turned perceptibly paler , but disagreeables of this sort between himself and Harold had been too much in his anticipations of late for him to be taken by surprise . 
He turned quietly round and just touched the shoulder of the person seated at the bureau , who now rose . 
Putty knows men , sir , '' he went on , turning to Harold ; `` it 's a thousand pities that you have not had his talents employed in your service . 
He has that kind of language ; and I need n't tell you , Mr Transome , that it 's the apex , which , I take it , means the tip-top -- and nobody can get higher than that , I think . 
No Whig could stand against a Whig , ' I said , ` who had Putty on his side : I hope Mr Transome goes in for something of a deeper colour . ' 
I do n't say that , as a general rule , opinions go for much in a return , Mr Transome ; it depends on who are in the field before you , and on the skill of your agents . 
Jermyn was not sorry that he should talk , even if he made a fool of himself ; for in that solid shape , exhibiting the average amount of human foibles , he seemed less of the alias which Harold had insinuated him to be , and had all the additional plausibility of a lie with a circumstance . 
Harold had thrown himself with contemptuous resignation into a chair , had drawn off one of his buff gloves , and was looking at his hand . 
But when Johnson gave his iteration with a slightly slackened pace , Harold looked up at him and broke in , `` Well then , Mr Johnson , I shall be glad if you will use your care and judgment in putting an end as well as you can to this Sproxton affair ; else it may turn out an ugly business . '' 
I speak plain English to you , Mr Transome , though I 've the highest respect for you as a gentleman of first-rate talents and position . 
Harold remained a few moments in angry silence looking at the floor , with one hand on his knee , and the other on his hat , as if he were preparing to start up . 
`` Certainly , the exposition befits the subject , '' said Harold , scornfully , his dislike of the man Johnson 's personality being stimulated by causes which Jermyn more than conjectured . 
Harold knew that he was indulging his temper , and he would probably have restrained it as a foolish move if he had thought there was great danger in it . 
But he was beginning to drop much of his caution and self-mastery where Jermyn was concerned , under the growing conviction that the attorney had very strong reasons for being afraid of him ; reasons which would only be reinforced by any action hostile to the Transome interest . 
Harold had smiles at command in the right place , but he was not going to smile when it was neither necessary nor agreeable . 
He was one of those good-humoured , yet energetic men , who have the gift of anger , hatred , and scorn upon occasion , though they are too healthy and self-contented for such feelings to get generated in them without external occasion . 
`` A -- pardon me , Mr Harold , '' said Jermyn , speaking as soon as Johnson went out , `` but I am sorry -- a -- you should behave disobligingly to a man who has it in his power to do much service -- who , in fact , holds many threads in his hands . 
I admit that -- a -- nemo mortalium omnibus horis sapit , as we say -- a -- '' `` Speak for yourself , '' said Harold . 
When Harold was gone , Jermyn 's handsome face gathered blackness . 
He hardly ever wore his worst expression in the presence of others , and but seldom when he was alone , for he was not given to believe that any game would ultimately go against him . 
His luck had been good . 
New conditions might always turn up to give him new chances ; and if affairs threatened to come to an extremity between Harold and himself , he trusted to finding some sure resource . 
The mingled irritation , dread , and defiance which he was feeling towards Harold Transome in the middle of the day , depended on too many and far-stretching causes to be dissipated by eight o'clock ; but when he left Mr Lyon 's house he was in a state of comparative triumph in the beleif that he , and he alone , was now in possession of facts which , once grouped together , made a secret that gave him new power over Harold . 
It had been a pleasant variety in her monotonous days to see a man like Harold Transome , with a distinguished appearance and polished manners , and she would like to see him again : he suggested to her that brighter and more luxurious life on which her imagination dwelt without the painful effort it required to conceive the mental condition which would place her in complete sympathy with Felix Holt . 
He sought Mr Transome , having a matter of some importance to speak upon with him . 
But presently she said , `` I should have liked to hear Mr Transome speak , but I suppose it is too late to get a place now . '' 
The other was Harold Transome 's ; but in this there was no lady -- only the olive-skinned Dominic , whose acute yet mild face was brightened by the occupation of amusing little Harry and rescuing from his tyrannies a King Charles puppy , with big eyes , much after the pattern of the boy 's . 
No man was permitted to speak from the platform except Harold and his uncle Lingon , though , in the interval of expectation , several Liberals had come forward . 
There 's one sort of fellow sees nothing but the end of his own nose , and another sort that sees nothing but the hinder side of the moon ; but my nephew Harold is of another sort ; he sees everything that 's at hitting distance , and he 's not one to miss his mark . 
A good-looking man in his prime ! 
Harold Transome will do you credit ; if anybody says the Radicals are a set of sneaks , Brummagem halfpennies , scamps who want to play pitch and toss with the property of the country , you can say , ` Look at the member for North Loamshire ! ' 
Harold had not been quite confident beforehand as to the good effect of his uncle 's introduction ; but he was soon reassured . 
Harold 's only interruption came from his own party . 
The oratorical clerk at the Factory , acting as the tribune of the Dissenting interest , and feeling bound to put questions , might have been troublesome ; but his voice being unpleasantly sharp , while Harold 's was full and penetrating , the questioning was cried down . 
Harold 's speech `` did : '' it was not of the glib-nonsensical sort , not ponderous , not hesitating -- which is as much to say , that it was remarkable among British speeches . 
Two or three of Harold 's committee had lingered talking to each other on the platform , instead of re-entering ; and Jermyn , after coming out to speak to one of them , had turned to the corner near which the carriages were standing , that he might tell the Transomes ' coachman to drive round to the side door , and signal to his own coachman to follow . 
While Dominic was answering , Christian had stared about him , as his manner was when he was being spoken to , and had had his eyes arrested by Esther , who was leaning forward to look at Mr Harold Transome 's extraordinary little gipsy of a son . 
The question , as you know , is of no practical importance ; but I wish to draw up an abstract of the Bycliffe case , and the exact position in which it stood before the suit was closed by the death of the plaintiff , in order that , if Mr Harold Transome desires it , he may see how the failure of the last claim has secured the Durfey-Transome title , and whether there is a hair 's - breadth of chance that another claim should be set up . 
When the attorney had sealed this letter and leaned back in his chair again , he was inwardly saying , `` Now , Mr Harold , I shall shut up this affair in a private drawer till you choose to take any extreme measures which will force me to bring it out . 
`` And so , if Mr Harold pushes me to extremity , and threatens me with Chancery and ruin , I have an opposing threat , which will either save me or turn into a punishment for him . '' 
But inward argument of this sort now , as always , was merged in anger , in exasperation , that Harold , precisely Harold Transome , should have turned out to be the probable instrument of a visitation which would be bad luck , not justice ; for is there any justice where ninety-nine out of a hundred escape ? 
He felt himself beginning to hate Harold as he had never -- Just then Jermyn 's third daughter , a tall slim girl wrapped in a white woollen shawl , which she had hung over her blanketwise , skipped across the lawn towards the greenhouse to get a flower . 
All the more undignified because Felix chose to live in a way that would prevent any one from classing him according to his education and mental refinement -- `` which certainly are very high , '' said Esther inwardly , colouring , as if in answer to some contrary allegation , `` else I should not think his opinion of any consequence . '' 
Still , the sense of being galled by Jermyn 's harness was an additional reason for cultivating all relations that were independent of him ; and pique at Harold Transome 's behaviour to him in Jermyn 's office perhaps gave all the more zest to Johnson 's use of his pen and ink when he wrote a handbill in the service of Garstin , and Garstin 's incomparable agent , Putty , full of inuendoes against Harold Transome , as a descendant of the Durfey-Transomes . 
He had been aware all along that the treating at Chubb 's had been continued , and that so far Harold Transome 's promise had produced no good fruits ; and what he was observing to-day , as he watched the uproarious crowd , convinced him that the whole scheme would be carried out just as if he had never spoken about it . 
He could be fair enough to Transome to allow that he might have wished , and yet have been unable , with his notions of success , to keep his promise ; and his bitterness towards the candidate only took the form of contemptuous pity ; for Felix was not sparing in his contempt for men who put their inward honour in pawn by seeking the prizes of the world . 
His scorn fell too readily on the fortunate . 
But when he saw Johnson passing to and fro , and speaking to Jermyn on the hustings , he felt himself getting angry , and jumped off the wheel of the stationary cart on which he was mounted , that he might no longer be in sight of this man , whose vitiating cant had made his blood hot and his fingers tingle on the first day of encountering him at Sproxton . 
The Rector of Treby Magna wrote an indignant message and sent it to the Ram , to Mr Lingon , the Rector of Little Treby , saying that there was evidently a Radical animus in the mob , and that Mr Transome 's party should hold themselves peculiarly responsible . 
A week after that Treby Riot , Harold Transome was at Transome Court . 
He had returned from a hasty visit to town , to keep his Christmas at this delightful country home , not in the best Christmas spirits . 
He had lost the election ; but if that had been his only annoyance , he had good humour and good sense enough to have borne it as well as most men , and to have paid the eight or nine thousand , which had been the price of ascertaining that he was not to sit in the next Parliament , without useless grumbling . 
But the disappointments of life can never , any more than its pleasures , be estimated singly ; and the healthiest and most agreeable of men is exposed to that coincidence of various vexations , each heightening the effect of the other , which may produce in him something corresponding to the spontaneous and externally unaccountable moodiness of the morbid and disagreeable . 
Harold might not have grieved much at a small riot in Treby , even if it had caused some expenses to fall on the county ; but the turn which the riot had actually taken , was a bitter morsel for rumination , on more grounds than one . 
However the disturbances had arisen and been aggravated -- and probably no one knew the whole truth on these points -- the conspicuous , gravest incidents had all tended to throw the blame on the Radical party , that is to say , on Transome and on Transome 's agents ; and so far the candidateship and its results had done Harold dishonour in the county : precisely the opposite effect to that which was a dear object of his ambition . 
More than this , Harold 's conscience was active enough to be very unpleasantly affected by what had befallen Felix Holt . 
His memory , always good , was particularly vivid in its retention of Felix Holt 's complaint to him about the treating of the Sproxton men , and of the subsequent irritating scene in Jermyn 's office , when the personage with the inauspicious name of Johnson had expounded to him the impossibility of revising an electioneering scheme once begun , and of turning your vehicle back when it had already begun to roll downhill . 
Remembering Felix Holt 's words of indignant warning about hiring men with drink in them to make a noise , Harold could not resist the urgent impression that the offences for which Felix was committed were fatalities , not brought about by any willing co-operation of his with the rioters , but arising probably from some ill-judged efforts to counteract their violence . 
And this impression , which insisted on growing into a conviction , became in one of its phases an uneasy sense that he held evidence which would at once tend to exonerate Felix , and to place himself and his agents in anything but a desirable light . 
In this matter Harold felt himself a victim . 
Could he hinder the tricks of his agents ? 
In this particular case he had tried to hinder them , and had tried in vain . 
He had not loved the two agents in question , to begin with ; and now at this later stage of events he was more innocent than ever of bearing them anything but the most sincere ill-will . 
He was more utterly exasperated with them than he would probably have been if his one great passion had been for public virtue . 
Jermyn , with his John Johnson , had added this ugly dirty business of the Treby election to all the long-accumulating list of offences , which Harold was resolved to visit on him to the utmost . 
He had seen some handbills carrying the insinuation that there was a discreditable indebtedness to Jermyn on the part of the Transomes . 
Now that the election was done with , Harold meant to devote himself to private affairs , till everything lay in complete order under his own supervision . 
This morning he was seated as usual in his private room , which had now been handsomely fitted up for him . 
It was but the third morning after the first Christmas he had spent in his English home for fifteen years , and the home looked like an eminently desirable one . 
Logs of dry oak blazed on the hearth ; the carpet was like warm moss under his feet ; he had breakfasted just according to his taste , and he had the interesting occupations of a large proprietor to fill the morning . 
Old Mr Transome had gathered new courage and strength since little Harry and Dominic had come , and since Harold had insisted on his taking drives . 
And if , in spite of this , she did not seem happy , Harold either did not observe it , or kindly ignored it as the necessary frailty of elderly women whose lives have had too much of dulness and privation . 
Our minds get tricks and attitudes as our bodies do , thought Harold , and age stiffens them into unalterableness . 
Yet even Harold 's own satisfaction in the midst of its elegant comfort needed at present to be sustained by the expectation of gratified resentment . 
He was obviously less bright and enjoying than usual , and his mother , who watched him closely without daring to ask questions , had gathered hints and drawn inferences enough to make her feel sure that there was some storm gathering between him and Jermyn . 
She did not dare to ask questions , and yet she had not resisted the temptation to say something bitter about Harold 's failure to get returned as a Radical , helping , with feminine self-defeat , to exclude herself more completely from any consultation by him . 
This morning Harold had ordered his letters to be brought to him at the breakfast-table , which was not his usual practice . 
His mother could see that there were London business letters about which he was eager , and she had found out that the letter brought by a clerk the day before was to make an appointment with Harold for Jermyn to come to Transome Court at eleven this morning . 
She observed Harold swallow his coffee and push away his plate with an early abstraction from the business of breakfast which was not at all after his usual manner . 
When Harold left the table she went into the long drawing-room , where she might relieve her restlessness by walking up and down , and catch the sound of Jermyn 's entrance into Harold 's room , which was close by . 
When Jermyn entered the room , Harold , who was seated at his library table examining papers , with his back towards the light and his face towards the door , moved his head coldly . 
On the attorney 's handsome face there was a black cloud of defiant determination , slightly startling to Harold , who had expected to feel that the overpowering weight of temper in the interview was on his own side . 
Nobody was ever prepared beforehand for this expression of Jermyn 's face , which seemed as strongly contrasted with the cold impenetrableness which he preserved under the ordinary annoyances of business as with the bland radiance of his lighter moments . 
Harold himself did not look amiable just then , but his anger was of the sort that seeks a vent without waiting to give a fatal blow ; it was that of a nature more subtly mixed than Jermyn 's -- less animally forcible , less unwavering in selfishness , and with more of high-bred pride . 
He looked at Jermyn with increased disgust and secret wonder . 
`` Sit down , '' he said , curtly . 
`` I have written to Makepeace , '' said Harold , `` to tell him to take the entire management of the election expenses . 
`` Be so good , then , as to open your business at once , '' said Harold , in a tone of imperious indifference . 
Jermyn , as he spoke , laid his hand on the papers before him , and looked straight at Harold . 
The tone in which Jermyn said this gave an unpleasant shock to Harold 's sense of mastery . 
`` I presume you refer to some underhand scheme of your own , on a par with the annuities you have drained us by in the name of Johnson , '' said Harold , feeling a new movement of anger . 
said Harold , sharply . 
There was a moment or two before Harold answered , and then he said abruptly , `` I do n't believe you . '' 
`` Well , then , say at once what your proofs are , '' said Harold , shaking in spite of himself , and getting nervous . 
said Harold , rising from his chair , and making a turn in the room , with his hands thrust in his pockets . 
Jermyn rose too , and stood near the hearth facing Harold , as he moved to and fro . 
For a minute or two Harold did not speak , but continued to pace the room , while Jermyn kept his position , holding his hands behind him . 
At last Harold said , from the other end of the room , speaking in a scornful tone , `` That sounds alarming . 
Jermyn took up the papers he had laid on the table , opening them slowly and coolly as he went on speaking , and as Harold advanced towards him . 
Or you may read the summing-up here , '' Jermyn ended , holding out one of the papers to Harold , and pointing to a final passage . 
Harold took the paper , with a slight gesture of impatience . 
He did not choose to obey Jermyn 's indication , and confine himself to the summing-up . 
When Harold 's eyes were on the signatures to this document for the third time , Jermyn said , `` As it turned out , the case being closed by the death of the claimant , we had no occasion for producing Thomas Transome , who was the old fellow I tell you of . 
Harold rose from his chair again , and again paced the room . 
He was not prepared with any defiance . 
he said at last , stopping in his walk , and facing round towards Jermyn . 
Harold turned again , and looked out of the window , without speaking for a moment or two . 
It was impossible that there should not be a conflict within him , and at present it was a very confused one . 
At last he said , `` This person is in ignorance of his claim ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Jermyn , keen enough to guess part of what was going on in Harold 's mind . 
`` I must have time to think of this , '' said Harold , conscious of a terrible pressure . 
`` Well , I must have time , '' said Harold , more than ever inclined to thrash the attorney , but feeling bound hand and foot with knots that he was not sure he could ever unfasten . 
Again Harold paused . 
He was more than ever exasperated , but he was threatened , mortified , and confounded by the necessity for an immediate decision between alternatives almost equally hateful to him . 
It was with difficulty that he could prevail on himself to speak any conclusive words . 
He walked as far as he could from Jermyn -- to the other end of the room -- then walked back to his chair and threw himself into it . 
At last he said , without looking at Jermyn , `` I agree -- I must have time . '' 
`` No further than this , '' said Harold , hastily , flashing a look at Jermyn -- `` no further than this , that I require time , and therefore I give it to you . '' 
Harold did not speak to him or look at him again , and Jermyn walked out of the room . 
As he appeared outside the door and closed it behind him , Mrs Transome showed her white face at another door which opened on a level with Harold 's in such a way that it was just possible for Jermyn not to see her . 
He availed himself of that possibility , and walked straight across the hall , where there was no servant in attendance to let him out , as if he believed that no one was looking at him who could expect recognition . 
Turning into her sitting-room , she heard the voices of Mr Transome and little Harry at play together . 
Few men would have felt otherwise than Harold Transome felt , if , having a reversion tantamount to possession of a fine estate , carrying an association with an old name and considerable social importance , they were suddenly informed that there was a person who had a legal right to deprive them of these advantages ; that person 's right having never been contemplated by any one as more than a chance , and being quite unknown to himself . 
In ordinary cases a shorter possession than Harold 's family had enjoyed was allowed by the law to constitute an indefeasible right ; and if in rare and peculiar instances the law left the possessor of a long inheritance exposed to deprivation as a consequence of old obscure transactions , the moral reasons for giving legal validity to the title of long occupancy were not the less strong . 
Nobody would have said that Harold was bound to hunt out this alleged remainder-man and urge his rights upon him ; on the contrary , all the world would have laughed at such conduct , and he would have been thought an interesting patient for a mad-doctor . 
The unconscious remainder-man was probably much better off left in his original station : Harold would not have been called upon to consider his existence , if it had not been presented to him in the shape of a threat from one who had power to execute the threat . 
In fact , what he would have done had the circumstances been different was much clearer than what he should choose to do or feel himself compelled to do in the actual crisis . 
He would not have been disgraced if , on a valid claim being urged , he had got his lawyers to fight it out for him on the chance of eluding the claim by some adroit technical management . 
But Jermyn had been too acute to let Harold know this : he had even carefully kept to the masculine pronoun . 
And he believed that there was no one besides himself who would or could make Harold any wiser . 
He went home persuaded that between this interview and the next which they would have together , Harold would be left to an inward debate , founded entirely on the information he himself had given . 
And he had not much doubt that the result would be what he desired . 
Harold was no fool : there were many good things he liked better in life than an irrational vindictiveness . 
And it did happen that , after writing to London in fulfilment of his pledge , Harold spent many hours over that inward debate , which was not very different from what Jermyn imagined . 
And while Harold was being galled by his subjection to Jermyn 's knowledge , independent information was on its way to him . 
The messenger was Christian , who , after as complete a survey of probabilities as he was capable of , had come to the conclusion that the most profitable investment he could make of his peculiar experience and testimony in relation to Bycliffe and Bycliffe 's daughter , was to place them at the disposal of Harold Transome . 
He was afraid of Jermyn ; he utterly distrusted Johnson ; but he thought he was secure in relying on Harold Transome 's care for his own interest ; and he preferred above all issues the prospect of forthwith leaving the country with a sum that at least for a good while would put him at his ease . 
When , only three mornings after the interview with Jermyn , Dominic opened the door of Harold 's sitting-room , and said that `` Meester Chreestian , '' Mr Philip Debarry 's courier and an acquaintance of his own at Naples , requested to be admitted on business of importance , Harold 's immediate thought was that the business referred to the so-called political affairs which were just now his chief association with the name of Debarry , though it seemed an oddness requiring explanation that a servant should be personally an intermediary . 
said Harold , with some surprise . 
said Harold , rather suspiciously , having no ground for confidence in a man of Christian 's position . 
`` With all my heart , '' said Harold , something like a gleam passing over his face . 
His circulation had become more rapid . 
He said , aloud , `` Then Mr Jermyn has never mentioned to you , sir , what I believe he is aware of -- that there is danger of a new suit being raised against you on the part of a Bycliffe , to get the estate ? '' 
said Harold , starting up , and placing himself with his back against the mantelpiece . 
He was electrified by surprise at the quarter from which this information was coming . 
Any fresh alarm was counteracted by the flashing thought that he might be enabled to act independently of Jermyn ; and in the rush of feelings he could utter no more than an interjection . 
Christian concluded that Harold had had no previous hint . 
`` From some other motive than kindness to me , I presume , '' said Harold , with a slight approach to a smile . 
`` I should not have the folly to use any affectation with you , Mr Transome . 
Harold listened as if he had been a legendary hero , selected for peculiar solicitation by the Evil One . 
But the desire to gain time served all the purposes of caution and resistance , and his indifference to the speaker in this case helped him to preserve perfect self-command . 
`` You are aware , '' he said , coolly , `` that silence is not a commodity worth purchasing unless it is loaded . 
`` I think you will see , Mr Transome , that , as a matter of justice , the knowledge I can give is worth something , quite apart from my future appearance or non-appearance as a witness . 
burst out Harold , throwing himself into his chair again , and turning his shoulder towards Christian . 
New thoughts crowded upon him . 
`` This fellow may want to decamp for some reason or other , '' he said to himself . 
`` I will not give you one sixpence for your information , '' he said , resolutely , `` until time has made it clear that you do not intend to decamp , but will be forthcoming when you are called for . 
In the first instance he had counted confidently on Harold 's ready seizure of his offer to disappear , and after some words had seemed to cast a doubt on this presupposition , he had inwardly determined to go away , whether Harold wished it or not , if he could get a sufficient sum . 
He did not reply immediately , and Harold waited in silence , inwardly anxious to know what Christian could tell , but with a vision at present so far cleared that he was determined not to risk incurring the imputation of having anything to do with scoundrelism . 
Christian was reflecting that if he stayed , and faced some possible inconveniences of being known publicly as Henry Scaddon for the sake of what he might get from Esther , it would at least be wise to be certain of some money from Harold Transome , since he turned out to be of so peculiar a disposition as to insist on a punctilious honesty to his own disadvantage . 
Did he think of making a bargain with the other side ? 
If so , he might be content to wait for the knowledge till it came in some other way . 
`` I will give you a thousand , '' said Harold , immediately , for Christian had unconsciously touched a sure spring . 
He wrote as he had promised , and gave the paper to Christian . 
`` Now , do n't be circuitous , '' said Harold . 
said Harold . 
At once , the first occasion on which he had seen Esther rose in his memory -- the little dark parlour -- the graceful girl in blue , with the surprisingly distinguished manners and appearance . 
`` I have seen her , '' said Harold , more than ever glad to have purchased this knowledge . 
`` Then , '' said Harold , as the details seemed to have come to a close , `` you believe that Miss Lyon and her supposed father are at present unaware of the claims that might be urged for her on the strength of her birth ? '' 
Christian was dismissed with a `` good-morning ; '' and while he cultivated some friendly reminiscences with Dominic , Harold sat chewing the cud of his new knowledge , and finding it not altogether so bitter as he had expected . 
From the first , after his interview with Jermyn , the recoil of Harold 's mind from the idea of strangling a legal right threw him on the alternative of attempting a compromise . 
And now he had learned that the new claimant was a woman -- a young woman , brought up under circumstances that would make the fourth of the Transome property seem to her an immense fortune . 
And having seen Esther , it was inevitable that , amongst the various issues , agreeable and disagreeable , depicted by Harold 's imagination , there should present itself a possibility that would unite the two claims -- his own , which he felt to be the rational , and Esther 's , which apparently was the legal claim . 
Harold , as he had constantly said to his mother , was `` not a marrying man ; '' he did not contemplate bringing a wife to Transome Court for many years to come , if at all . 
Harold preferred a slow-witted large-eyed woman , silent and affectionate , with a load of black hair weighing much more heavily than her brains . 
He had seen no such woman in England , except one whom he had brought with him from the East . 
Therefore Harold did not care to be married until or unless some surprising chance presented itself ; and now that such a chance had occurred to suggest marriage to him , he would not admit to himself that he contemplated marrying Esther as a plan ; he was only obliged to see that such an issue was not inconceivable . 
He was not going to take any step expressly directed towards that end : what he had made up his mind to , as the course most satisfactory to his nature under present urgencies , was to behave to Esther with a frank gentlemanliness , which must win her good-will , and incline her to save his family interest as much as possible . 
He was helped to this determination by the pleasure of frustrating Jermyn 's contrivance to shield himself from punishment ; and his most distinct and cheering prospect was , that within a very short space of time he should not only have effected a satisfactory compromise with Esther , but should have made Jermyn aware , by a very disagreeable form of announcement , that Harold Transome was no longer afraid of him . 
At the end of these meditations he felt satisfied with himself and light-hearted . 
He had rejected two dishonest propositions , and he was going to do something that seemed eminently graceful . 
But he needed his mother 's assistance , and it was necessary that he should both confide in her and persuade her . 
Within two hours after Christian left him , Harold begged his mother to come into his private room , and there he told her the strange and startling story , omitting , however , any particulars which would involve the identification of Christian as his informant . 
Harold felt that his engagement demanded this reticence ; and he told his mother that he was bound to conceal the source of that knowledge which he had got independently of Jermyn . 
Mrs Transome said little in the course of the story : she made no exclamations , but she listened with close attention , and asked a few questions so much to the point as to surprise Harold . 
When he showed her the copy of the legal opinion which Jermyn had left with him , she said she knew it very well ; she had a copy herself . 
Harold perceived that she was painfully agitated , that she trembled , and that her white lips would not readily lend themselves to speech . 
And this was hardly more than he expected . 
He had not liked the revelation himself when it had first come to him . 
But he did not guess what it was in his narrative which had most pierced his mother . 
Harold had not chosen to speak of them before ; but having at last called his mother into consultation , there was nothing in his mind to hinder him from speaking without reserve of his determination to visit on the attorney his shameful maladministration of the family affairs . 
Harold went through the whole narrative -- of what he called Jermyn 's scheme to catch him in a vice , and his power of triumphantly frustrating that scheme -- in his usual rapid way , speaking with a final decisiveness of tone : and his mother felt that if she urged any counter-consideration at all , she could only do so when he had no more to say . 
`` Now , what I want you to do , mother , if you can see this matter as I see it , '' Harold said in conclusion , `` is to go with me to call on this girl in Malthouse Yard . 
`` Well , '' said Harold , looking at his watch , `` it is hardly two yet . 
Harold withdrew his hand from the bell , and leaned against the mantelpiece to listen . 
`` You see I comply with your wish at once , Harold ? '' 
`` Pray go on , ' said Harold , expecting to be annoyed . 
`` That 's what I intend , '' said Harold , sharply . 
`` What he did , he did for his own sake , you may depend on that , '' said Harold , with a scornful laugh . 
`` I will arrange nothing amicably with him , '' said Harold , decisively . 
She did not speak in answer to Harold , but rose from the chair as if she gave up the debate . 
`` Women are frightened at everything , I know , '' said Harold , kindly , feeling that he had been a little harsh after his mother 's compliance . 
Come , mother , '' he went on , looking at her gently , and resting his hands on her shoulders , `` look cheerful . 
He spoke laughingly , only thinking how he could make his mother smile . 
But she looked at him seriously and said , `` Do you mean that , Harold ? '' 
said Harold , coaxingly . 
After the resolutions Harold had taken , some sort of compromise with this oddly-placed heiress was the result most to be hoped for ; if the compromise turned out to be a marriage -- well , she had no reason to care much : she was already powerless . 
Besides himself , he believed there was no one who could bear testimony to the remonstrances of Felix concerning the treating of the Sproxton men , except Jermyn , Johnson , and Harold Transome . 
Though he had the vaguest idea of what could be done in the case , he fixed his mind on the probability that Mr Transome would be moved to the utmost exertion , if only as an atonement ; but he dared not take any step until he had consulted Felix , who he foresaw was likely to have a very strong determination as to the help he would accept or not accept . 
Felix had declared that he would receive no aid from Harold Transome , except the aid he might give as an honest witness . 
There was nothing to be done for him but what was perfectly simple and direct . 
And , in the mean time , here was something to be gained in this Bycliffe business , which , it was not unpleasant to think , was a nut that Jermyn had intended to keep for his own particular cracking , and which would be rather a severe astonishment to Mr Harold Transome , whose manners towards respectable agents were such as leave a smart in a man of spirit . 
Even in her times of most untroubled egoism Esther shrank from anything ungenerous ; and the fact that she had a very lively image of Harold Transome and his gipsy-eyed boy in her mind , gave additional distinctness to the thought that if she entered they must depart . 
`` If it 's Mr Transome or somebody else as is great , Mr Lyon , '' urged Mrs Holt , `` you 'll remember my son , and say he 's got a mother with a character they may inquire into as much as they like . 
For it 's not to be thought but what the great people could get him off if they would ; and it 's very hard with a King in the country and all the texts in Proverbs about the King 's countenance , and Solomon and the live baby -- '' Mr Lyon lifted up his hand deprecatingly , and Mrs Holt retreated from the parlour-door to a corner of the kitchen , the outer doorway being occupied by Dominic , who was inquiring if Mr and Miss Lyon were at home , and could receive Mrs Transome and Mr Harold Transome . 
Harold Transome , greeting Esther gracefuly , presented his mother , whose eagle-like glance , fixed on her from the first moment of entering , seemed to Esther to pierce her through . 
But Harold saw that his mother was agreeably struck by Esther , who indeed showed to much advantage . 
Harold was carefully polite to the minister , throwing out a word to make him understand that he had an important part in the important business which had brought this unannounced visit ; and the four made a group seated not far off each other near the window , Mrs Transome and Esther being on the sofa . 
`` I ought to begin by saying that what I have to announce to you is the reverse of disagreeable , Miss Lyon , '' said Harold , with lively ease . 
`` I do n't suppose the world would consider it very good news for me ; but a rejected candidate , Mr Lyon , '' Harold went on , turning graciously to the minister , `` begins to be inured to loss and misfortune . '' 
`` You will never guess what I have to disclose , '' said Harold , again looking at Esther , `` unless , indeed , you have had some previous intimation of it . '' 
She was already brightened by Harold 's manner . 
said Harold , inwardly vexed , but sufficiently prepared not to seem so . 
`` I daresay , then , '' said Harold , `` you are more fully possessed of particulars than I am . 
`` Our chief anxiety , '' she said , knowing what Harold wished her to say , `` is , that there may be no contest , no useless expenditure of money . 
`` My mother expresses our feeling precisely , Miss Lyon , '' said Harold . 
`` Not exactly , '' said Harold , smiling . 
`` Do consent , '' said Harold , with winning brevity . 
said Harold to the minister . 
Harold was highly gratified with the perfection of his mother 's manner on this occasion , which he had looked forward to as difficult . 
Since he had come home again , he had never seen her so much at her ease , or with so much benignancy in her face . 
When Esther had left the room , Harold said , `` Apart from our immediate reason for coming , Mr Lyon , I could have wished to see you about these unhappy consequences of the election contest . 
`` Sir , you know him not , '' said the little minister , in his deeper tone . 
`` I shall be proud to supply her as amply as you think desirable , '' said Harold , not enjoying this lecture . 
Mrs Transome and Harold had both risen . 
`` If you are quite ready , Miss Lyon , '' said Harold , divining that the father and daughter would like to have an unobserved moment , `` I will take my mother to the carriage , and come back for you . '' 
`` Ah , I hear Mr Transome coming back . 
In spite of all the grave thoughts that had been , Esther felt it a very pleasant as well as new experience to be led to the carriage by Harold Transome , to be seated on soft cushions , and bowled along , looked at admiringly and deferentially by a person opposite , whom it was agreeable to look at in return , and talked to with suavity and liveliness . 
Banks the bailiff and the head-servant had nodded and winked a good deal over the certainty that Mr Harold was `` none so fond '' of Jermyn , but this was a subject on which Mrs Transome had never made up her mind to speak , and Denner knew nothing definite . 
I 'm fond of Mr Harold . 
I was at his bringing into the world , and nothing but his doing wrong by you would turn me against him . 
But the servants all say he 's in love with Miss Lyon . '' 
If that were all -- I should like Harold to marry her . 
And Dominic said Mr Harold never admired that sort of woman before . 
`` And so , if Mr Harold married her , it would save all fuss and mischief ? '' 
`` And he seems inclined ; and she 'll not refuse him , I 'll answer for it . 
`` Denner , '' she said , in a low tone , `` if I could choose at this moment , I would choose that Harold should never have been born . '' 
At first sight her light complexion and her blue gown , probably also her sunny smile and her hands stretched out towards him , seemed to make a show for him as of a new sort of bird : he threw himself backward against his `` Gappa , '' as he called old Mr Transome , and stared at this new-comer with the gravity of a wild animal . 
Whomsoever Harry liked , it followed that Mr Transome must like : `` Gappa , '' along with Nimrod the retriever , was part of the menagerie , and perhaps endured more than all the other live creatures in the way of being tumbled about . 
But what old Mr Transome thought the most wonderful proof of an almost preternatural cleverness was , that Harry would hardly ever talk , but preferred making inarticulate noises , or combining syllables after a method of his own . 
And when Harry seemed to have made up his mind distinctly that Esther 's name was `` Boo , '' Mr Transome nodded at her with triumphant satisfaction , and then told her in a low whisper , looking round cautiously beforehand , that Harry would never call Mrs Transome `` Gamma , '' but always `` Bite . '' 
Mr Transome had always had his beetles , but Mrs Transome -- ? 
But Harold Transome was more communicative about recent years than his mother was . 
He thought it well that Esther should know how the fotune of his family had been drained by law expenses , owing to suits mistakenly urged by her family ; he spoke of his mother 's lonely life and pinched circumstances , of her lack of comfort in her elder son , and of the habit she had consequently acquired of looking at the gloomy side of things . 
Harold Transome 's thoughts turned on the same subject , but accompanied by a different state of feeling and with more definite resolutions . 
He saw a mode of reconciling all difficulties , which looked pleasanter to him the longer he looked at Esther . 
When she had been hardly a week in the house , he had made up his mind to marry her ; and it had never entered into that mind that the decision did not rest entirely with his inclination . 
It was not that he thought slightly of Esther 's demands ; he saw that she would require considerable attractions to please her , and that there were difficulties to be overcome . 
She was clearly a girl who must be wooed ; but Harold did not despair of presenting the requisite attractions , and the difficulties gave more interest to the wooing than he could have believed . 
When he had said that he would not marry an Englishwoman , he had always made a mental reservation in favour of peculiar circumstances ; and now the peculiar circumstances were come . 
To be deeply in love was a catastrophe not likely to happen to him ; but he was readily amorous . 
No woman could make him miserable , but he was sensitive to the presence of women , and was kind to them ; not with grimaces , like a man of mere gallantry , but beamingly , easily , like a man of genuine good-nature . 
Harold was not one to fail in a purpose for want of assiduity . 
After an hour or two devoted to business in the morning , he went to look for Esther , and if he did not find her at play with Harry and old Mr Transome , or chatting with his mother , he went into the drawing-room , where she was usually either seated with a book on her knee and `` making a bed for her cheek '' with one little hand , while she looked out of the window , or else standing in front of one of the full-length family portraits with an air of rumination . 
The active Harold had almost always something definite to propose by way of filling the time : if it were fine , she must walk out with him and see the grounds ; and when the snow melted and it was no longer slippery , she must get on horseback and learn to ride . 
If they stayed indoors , she must learn to play at billiards , or she must go over the house and see the pictures he had had hung anew , or the costumes he had brought from the East , or come into his study and look at the map of the estate , and hear what -- if it had remained in his family -- he had intended to do in every corner of it in order to make the most of its capabilities . 
About a certain time in the morning Esther had learned to expect him . 
Let every wooer make himself strongly expected ; he may succeed by dint of being absent , but hardly in the first instance . 
One morning Harold found her in the drawing-room , leaning against a consol table , and looking at the full-length portrait of a certain Lady Betty Transome , who had lived a century and a half before , and had the usual charm of ladies in Sir Peter Lely 's style . 
`` She brightens up that panel well with her long satin skirt , '' said Harold , as he followed Esther , `` but alive I daresay she would have been less cheerful company . '' 
said Esther , as Harold , kneeling on one knee , held her silken netting-stirrup for her to put her foot through . 
Harold naturally believed that it was he himself who was filling the field of vision . 
He would have liked to place himself on the ottoman near Esther , and behave very much more like a lover ; but he took a chair opposite to her at a circumspect distance . 
Along with Esther 's playful charm she conveyed an impression of personal pride and high spirit which warned Harold 's acuteness that in the delicacy of their present position he might easily make a false move and offend her . 
Beforehand , he might have said that such characteristics as hers were not lovable in a woman ; but , as it was , he found that the hope of pleasing her had a piquancy quite new to him . 
-LRB- Harold Transome was masculine and fallible ; he had incautiously sat down this morning to pay his addresses by talk about nothing in particular ; and , clever experienced man as he was , he fell into nonsense . -RRB- 
Or suppose , '' added Esther , suddenly looking up merrily at Harold , `` the man himself was troublesome ? '' 
`` You are a perfect judge of sauces , '' said Esther , who had her triumphs in letting Harold know that she was capable of taking notes . 
When Esther began to speak , she meant to do no more than make a remote unintelligible allusion , feeling , it must be owned , a naugthy will to flirt and be saucy , and thwart Harold 's attempts to be felicitous in compliment . 
Harold felt himself unpleasantly illuminated as to a possibility that had never yet occurred to him . 
His surprise made an uncomfortable pause , in which Esther had time to feel much vexation . 
`` You speak in the past tense , '' said Harold , at last ; `` yet I am rather envious of that person . 
But Harold was not entirely satisfied ; if there was any obstacle in his way , he wished to know exactly what it was . 
`` That must have been a wretched life for you at Treby , '' he said , -- `` a person of your accomplishments . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Harold , rising and walking a few paces backwards and forwards , `` you are past your majority ; you are empress of your own fortunes -- and more besides . '' 
`` Well , '' said Harold , pausing in front of her , leaning one arm on the mantelpiece , and speaking very gravely , `` I hope that in any case , since you appear to have no near relative who understands affairs , you will confide in me , and trust me with all your intentions as if I had no other personal concern in the matter than a regard for you . 
`` I am sure you have given me reason to believe it , '' said Esther , with seriousness , putting out her hand to Harold . 
She had not been left in ignorance that he had had opportunities twice offered of stifling her claims . 
Harold raised the hand to his lips , but dared not retain it more than an instant . 
Still the sweet reliance in Esther 's manner made an irresistible temptation to him . 
After standing still a moment or two , while she bent over her work , he glided to the ottoman and seated himself close by her , looking at her busy hands . 
`` I see you have made mistakes in your work , '' he said , bending still nearer , for he saw that she was conscious , yet not angry . 
Harold was looking , as he felt , thoroughly enamoured of this bright woman , who was not at all to his preconceived taste . 
But he mastered all indiscretion , and only looked at her as he said , `` I am wondering whether you have any deep wishes and secrets that I ca n't guess . '' 
`` Pray do n't speak of my wishes , '' said Esther , quite overmastered by this new and apparently involuntary manifestation in Harold ; `` I could not possibly tell you one at this moment -- I think I shall never find them out again . 
`` I will give the order immediately , if you wish it , '' said Harold , understanding that the audience was broken up . 
If Esther had been less agitated , she would hardly have helped smiling at the picture her father 's words suggested of Harold Transome `` joining the church '' in Malthouse Yard . 
First , she was angry with him for daring to say positively whom she would marry ; secondly , she was angry at the implication that there was from the first a cool deliberate design in Harold Transome to marry her . 
Esther said to herself that she was quite capable of discerning Harold Transome 's disposition , and judging of his conduct . 
She felt sure he was generous and open . 
It did not lower him in her opinion that since circumstances had brought them together he evidently admired her -- was in love with her -- in short , desired to marry her ; and she thought that she discerened the delicacy which hindered him from being more explicit . 
`` Have you yet spoken with Mr Transome concerning Mistress Holt , my dear ? '' 
Mr Transome may have forgotten it , and , for several reasons , I would rather not talk of this -- of money matters to him at present . 
But she did not run her eyes over the pages during her solitary drive to get a foretaste of the argument , for she was entirely occupied with Felix Holt 's prophecy that she would marry Harold Transome . 
One fact conducing to keep him in this ignorance was , that some days after his critical interview with Harold -- days during which he had been wondering how long it would be before Harold made up his mind to sacrifice the luxury of satisfied anger for the solid advantage of securring fortune and position -- he was peremptorily called away by business to the south of England , and was obliged to inform Harold by letter of his absence . 
He took care also to notify his return ; but Harold made no sign in reply . 
The days passed without bringing him any gossip concerning Esther 's visit , for such gossip was almost confined to Mr Lyon 's congregation , her Church pupils , Miss Louisa Jermyn among them , having been satisfied by her father 's written statement that she was gone on a visit of uncertain duration . 
Entirely ignorant of those converging indications and small links of incident which had raised Christian 's conjectures , and had gradually contributed to put him in possession of the facts ; ignorant too of some busy motives in the mind of his obliged servant Johnson ; Jermyn was not likely to see at once how the momentous information that Esther was the surviving Bycliffe could possibly have reached Harold . 
His daughters naturally leaped , as others had done , to the conclusion that the Transomes , seeking a governess for little Harry , had had their choice directed to Esther , and observed that they must have attracted her by a high salary to induce her to take charge of such a small pupil ; though of course it was important that his English and French should be carefully attended to from the first . 
Jermyn , hearing this suggestion , was not without a momentary hope that it might be true , and that Harold was still safely unconscious of having under the same roof with him the legal claimant of the family estate . 
Too much depended on that unconsciousness of Harold 's ; and although Jermyn did not see the course of things that could have disclosed and combined the various items of knowledge which he had imagined to be his own secret , and therefore his safeguard , he saw quite clearly what was likely to be the result of the disclosure . 
Not only would Harold Transome be no longer afraid of him , but also , by marrying Esther -LRB- and Jermyn at once felt sure of this issue -RRB- , he would be triumphantly freed from any unpleasant consequences , and could pursue much at his ease the gratification of ruining Matthew Jermyn . 
He wrote to Mrs Transome requesting her to appoint an hour in which he could see her privately : he knew she would understand that it was to be an hour when Harold was not at home . 
As he sealed the letter , he indulged a faint hope that in this interview he might be assured of Esther 's birth being unknown at Transome Court ; but in the worst case , perhaps some help might be found in Mrs Transome . 
`` Harold has gone to Loamford , '' she said , in a subdued tone . 
But I am anxious to know whether you are aware of what has passed between me and Harold ? '' 
`` Yes , he has told me everything . '' 
`` About his proceedings against me ? 
and the reason he stopped them ? '' 
`` Yes : have you had notice that he has begun them again ? '' 
`` Of course he will now , '' said Mrs Transome . 
`` There is no reason in his mind why he should not . '' 
`` Has he resolved to risk the estate then ? '' 
`` He feels in no danger on that score . 
The most likely thing is , that he will marry this girl . '' 
`` He knows everything then ? '' 
It 's of no use for you to think of mastering him : you ca n't do it . 
I used to wish Harold to be fortunate -- and he is fortunate , '' said Mrs Transome , with intense bitterness . 
`` It 's not my star that he inherits . '' 
`` Do you know how he came by the information about this girl ? '' 
`` He told me they would . 
I have told him as plainly as I dare that I wish him to drop all public quarrel with you , and that you could make an arrangement without scandal . 
He will not listen to me ; he does n't mind about my feelings . 
He cares more for Mr Transome than he does for me . 
He will not listen to me any more than if I were an old balladsinger . '' 
`` I besought you three months ago to bear anything rather than quarrel with him . '' 
`` I have not quarrelled with him . 
It is he who has been always seeking a quarrel with me . 
He set his teeth against me from the first . '' 
`` He saw things that annoyed him ; and men are not like women , '' said Mrs Transome . 
And the property is sure to be Harold 's some day . ' 
He was a baby then . '' 
It is not to be supposed that Harold would go on against me ... if he knew the whole truth . '' 
As Jermyn , sitting down and leaning forward with an elbow on his knee , uttered his last words -- `` if he knew the whole truth '' -- a slight shock seemed to pass through Mrs Transome 's hitherto motionless body , followed by a sudden light in her eyes , as in an animal 's about to spring . 
`` And you expect me to tell him ? '' 
`` Would it not be right for him to know ? '' 
`` I will never tell him ! '' 
From the first , after Harold came home , I had a horrible dread . 
I felt the horror of his not knowing the truth . 
I might have been dragged at last , by my own feeling -- by my own memory -- to tell him all , and make him as well as myself miserable , to save you . '' 
`` But now you have asked me , I will never tell him ! 
And he was supported as to his justifiableness by the inward repetition of what he had already said to her : it was right that Harold should know the truth . 
He did not take into account -LRB- how should he ? -RRB- 
the exasperation and loathing excited by his daring to urge the plea of right . 
A man who had stolen the pyx , and got frightened when justice was at his heels , might feel the sort of penitence which would induce him to run back in the dark and lay the pyx where the sexton might find it ; but if in doing so he whispered to the Blessed Virgin that he was moved by considering the sacredness of all property , and the peculiar sacredness of the pyx , it is not to be believed that she would like him the better for it . 
As he was moving his arm from the chair-back , and turning to take his hat , there was a boisterous noise in the entrance-hall ; the door of the small drawing-room , which had closed without latching , was pushed open , and old Mr Transome appeared with a face of feeble delight , playing horse to little Harry , who roared and flogged behind him , while Moro yapped in a puppy voice at their heels . 
But when Mr Transome saw Jermyn in the room he stood still in the doorway , as if he did not know whether entrance were permissible . 
The majority of his thoughts were but ravelled threads of the past . 
After that morning on which Esther found herself reddened and confused by the sense of having made a distant allusion to Felix Holt , she felt it impossible that she should even , as she had sometimes intended , speak of him explicitly to Harold , in order to discuss the probabilities as to the issue of his trial . 
She was certain she could not do it without betraying emotion , and there were very complex reasons in Esther 's mind why she could not bear that Harold should detect her sensibility on this subject . 
She knew quite well that , to Harold Transome , Felix Holt was one of the common people who could come into question in no other than a public light . 
She had a native capability for discerning that the sense of ranks and degrees has its repulsions corresponding to the repulsions dependent on difference of race and colour ; and she remembered her own impressions too well not to foresee that it would come on Harold Transome as a shock , if he suspected there had been any love-passages between her and this young man , who to him was of course no more than any other intelligent member of the working class . 
And in her fluctuations on this matter , she found herself mentally protesting that , whatever Harold might think , there was a light in which he was vulgar compared with Felix . 
Felix had ideas and motives which she did not believe that Harold could understand . 
More than all , there was this test : she herself had no sense of inferiority and just subjection when she was with Harold Transome ; there were even points in him for which she felt a touch , not of angry , but of playful scorn ; whereas with Felix she had always a sense of dependence and possible illumination . 
In those large , grave , candid grey eyes of his , love seemed something that belonged to the high enthusiasm of life , such as might now be for ever shut out from her . 
All the same , her vanity winced at the idea that Harold should discern what , from his point of view , would seem like a degradation of her taste and refinement . 
She could not help being gratified by all the manifestations from those around her that she was thought thoroughly fitted for a high position -- could not help enjoying , with more or less keenness , a rehearsal of that demeanour amongst luxuries and dignities which had often been a part of her day-dreams , and the rehearsal included the reception of more and more emphatic attentions from Harold , and of an effusiveness in his manners , which , in proportion as it would have been offensive if it had appeared earlier , became flattering as the effect of a growing acquaintance and daily contact . 
Day after day Esther had an arm offered her , had very beaming looks upon her , had opportunities for a great deal of light , airy talk , in which she knew herself to be charming , and had the attractive interest of noticing Harold 's practical cleverness -- the masculine ease with which he governed everybody and administered everything about him , without the least harshness , and with a facile good-nature which yet was not weak . 
In the background , too , there was the ever-present consideration , that if Harold Transome wished to marry her , and she accepted him , the problem of her lot would be more easily solved than in any other way . 
Harold , on his side , was conscious that the interest of his wooing was not standing still . 
He was beginning to think it a conquest , in which it would be disappointing to fail , even if this fair nymph had no claim to the estate . 
He would have liked -- and yet he would not have liked -- that just a slight shadow of doubt as to his success should be removed . 
There was something about Esther that he did not altogether understand . 
She was clearly a woman that could be governed ; she was too charming for him to fear that she would ever be obstinate or interfering . 
Yet there was a lightning that shot out of her now and then , which seemed the sign of a dangerous judgment ; as if she inwardly saw something more admirable than Harold Transome . 
One fine February day , when already the golden and purple crocuses were out on the terrace -- one of those flattering days which sometimes precede the north-east winds of March , and make believe that the coming spring will be enjoyable -- a very striking group , of whom Esther and Harold made a part , came out at mid-day to walk upon the gravel at Transome Court . 
Harold was a good fellow ; a clever chap ; and Esther 's peculiar fitness for him , under all the circumstances , was extraordinary : it reminded him of something in the classics , though he could n't think exactly what -- in fact , a memory was a nasty uneasy thing . 
She and Harold were walking a little in advance of the rest of the party , who were retarded by various causes . 
Old Mr Transome , wrapped in a cloth cloak trimmed with sable , and with a soft warm cap also trimmed with fur on his head , had a shuffing uncertain walk . 
Looking back and seeing that they were a good in advance of the rest , Esther and Harold paused . 
said Harold , pointing with his stick . 
But I never heard you express yourself so dubiously , '' said Esther , looking at him rather archly : `` you generally see things so clearly , and are so convinced , that I shall begin to feel quite tottering if I find you in uncertainty . 
said Harold . 
said Harold , with a beaming inquiry in his eyes . 
`` The fact is , '' said Harold , moving on a little , as if he did not want to be quite overtaken by the others , `` you consider me a fat , fatuous , self-satisfied fellow . '' 
Here was a very baulking answer , but in spite of it Harold could not help believing that Esther was very far from objecting to the sort of incense he had been offering just then . 
`` I do n't confess to the same waywardness , '' said Harold . 
Harold nodded with a meaning smile at Esther . 
`` O , I assure you I have abjured all admiration for it , '' she said , smiling up at him in return . 
She was remembering the schooling Felix had given her about her Byronic heroes , and was inwardly adding a third sort of human nature to those varieties which Harold had mentioned . 
He naturally supposed that he might take the abjuration to be entirely in his own favour . 
And his face did look very pleasant ; she could not help liking him , although he was certainly too particular about sauces , gravies , and wines , and had a way of virtually measuring the value of everything by the contribution it made to his own pleasure . 
His very good-nature was unsympathetic : it never came from any thorough understanding or deep respect for what was in the mind of the person he obliged or indulge ; it was like his kindness to his mother -- an arrangement of his for the happiness of others , which , if they were sensible , ought to succeed . 
And an inevitable comparison which haunted her , showed her the same quality in his political views : the utmost enjoyment of his own advantages was the solvent that blended pride in his family and position , with the adhesion to changes that were to obliterate tradition and melt down enchased gold heirlooms into plating for the egg-spoons of `` the people . '' 
Esther had had an unusual illumination ; Harold did not know how , but he discerned enough of the effect to make him more cautious than he had ever been in his life before . 
That caution would have prevented him just then from following up the question as to the style of person Esther would think pleasant to live with , even if Uncle Lingon had not joined them , as he did , to talk about soughing tiles ; saying presently that he should turn across the grass and get on to the Home Farm , to have a look at the improvements that Harold was making with such racing speed . 
You see , Harold , a Radical wo n't do for the county . 
Harold and Esther turned , and saw an elderly woman advancing with a tiny red-haired boy , scantily attired as to his jacket , which merged into a small sparrow-tail a little higher than his waist , but muffled as to his throat with a blue woollen comforter . 
And in spite of the almost solemn memories connected with Mrs Holt , Esther 's first shudder was raised by the idea of what things this woman would say , and by the mortification of having Felix in any way represented by his mother . 
She curtsied once , as if to the entire group , now including even the dogs , who showed various degrees of curiosity , especially as to what kind of game the smaller animal Job might prove to be after due investigation ; and then she proceeded at once towards Esther , who , in spite of her annoyance , took her arm from Harold 's , said , `` How do you do , Mrs Holt ? '' 
That was what I said to myself when I made up my mind to come here and see you , and ask you to get me the freedom to speak to Mr Transome . 
Esther 's face was glowing , when Harold glanced at her ; and seeing this , he was considerate enough to address Mrs Holt instead of her . 
The daring bit of impromptu about the three Mr Transomes was immediately suggested by a movement of old Mr Transome to the foreground in a line with Mr Lingon and Harold ; his furred and unusual costume appearing to indicate a mysterious dignity which she must hasten to include in her appeal . 
While old Mr Transome stared , very much like a waxen image in which the expression is a failure , and the Rector , accustomed to female parishioners and complainants , looked on with a smile in his eyes , Harold said at once , with cordial kindness -- `` I think you are quite right , Mrs Holt . 
Rapid thoughts had convinced Harold that in this way he was best commending himself to Esther . 
This was a little too much for Mr Lingon 's gravity ; he exploded , and Harold could not help following him . 
`` I assure you , Mrs Holt , '' said Harold , coming to the rescue -- `` I assure you that enough has been said to make me use my best efforts for your son . 
`` No , pray , '' said Harold , with that kind of entreaty which is really a decision . 
Since Dominic was going , Harry and old Mr Transome chose to follow . 
Uncle Lingon shook hands and turned off across the grass , and thus Esther was left alone with Harold . 
Harold 's quick perception was least likely to be slow in seizing indications of anything that might affect his position with regard to Esther . 
Some time before , his jealousy had been awakened to the possibility that before she had known him she had been deeply interested in some one else . 
And Esther 's renewed confusion , united with her silence about Felix , which now first seemed noteworthy , and with Mrs Holt 's graphic details as to her walking with him and letting him sit by her before all the town , were grounds not merely for a suspicion , but for a conclusion in Harold 's mind . 
The effect of this , which he at once regarded as a discovery , was rather different from what Esther had anticipated . 
It seemed to him that Felix was the least formidable person that he could have found out as an object of interest antecedent to himself . 
A young workman who had got himself thrown into prison , whatever recommendations he might have had for a girl at a romantic age in the dreariness of Dissenting society at Treby , could hardly be considered by Harold in the light of a rival . 
Besides , Harold cherished the belief that , at the present time , Esther was more wisely disposed to bestow these things on another lover in every way eligible . 
Naturally , when they were left alone , it was Harold who spoke first . 
said Harold , not quite liking the tone of this answer . 
said Harold , in a tone of surprised yet thorough belief , and looking in Esther 's face . 
Esther at that moment looked perfectly beautiful , with an expression which Harold had never hitherto seen . 
Harold looked and listened , and felt his slight jealousy allayed rather than heightened . 
`` This is not like love , '' he said to himself , with some satisfaction . 
With all due regard to Harold Transome , he was one of those men who are liable to make the greater mistakes about a particular woman 's feelings , because they pique themselves on a power of interpretation derived from much experience . 
Harold 's experience had not taught him this ; and Esther 's enthusiasm about Felix Holt did not seem to him to be dangerous . 
`` He 's quite an apostolic sort of fellow , then , '' was the self-quieting answer he gave to her last words . 
But you saw a great deal of him , I suppose ; and your testimony to any one is enough for me , '' said Harold , lowering his voice rather tenderly . 
It was nothing more than might have been expected in a tender-hearted woman , considering Felix Holt 's circumstances , and the tears only made more lovely the look with which she met Harold 's when he spoke so kindly . 
She felt pleased with him ; she was open to the fallacious delight of being assured that she had power over him to make him do what she liked , and quite forgot the many impressions which had convinced her that Harold had a padded yoke ready for the neck of every man , woman , and child that depended on him . 
After a short silence , they were getting near the stone gateway , and Harold said , with an air of intimate consultation -- `` What could we do for this young man , supposing he were let off ? 
She was rather wickedly amused and scornful at Harold 's misconceptions and ill-placed intentions of patronage . 
Yes , '' said Harold , slightly piqued , `` but what a man means usually depends on what happens . 
`` That would be satisfactory if one were sure of getting your admiration , '' said Harold , leading her up to the terrace , and amongst the crocuses , from whence they had a fine view of the park and river . 
said Harold , turning his eyes from that landscape to Esther 's face . 
`` It would be a thing to be put up with , '' said Esther , smiling at him rather roguishly . 
`` You are a naughty fairy , '' said Harold , daring to press Esther 's hand a little more closely to him , and drawing her down the eastern steps into the pleasure-ground , as if he were unwilling to give up the conversation . 
Harold did not reply immediately to this last thrust of Esther 's . 
She had uttered it with innocent thoughtlessness from the playful suggestions of the moment ; but it was a fact that Harold 's previous married life had entered strongly into her impressions about him . 
Harold took this allusion of Esther 's as an indication that his quality of widower was a point that made against him ; and after a brief silence he said , in an altered , more serious tone -- `` You do n't suppose , I hope , that any other woman has ever held the place that you could hold in my life ? '' 
It was impossible for Harold to preconceive the effect this had on Esther . 
His natural disqualification for judging of a girl 's feelings was heightened by the blinding effect of an exclusive object -- which was to assure her that her own place was peculiar and supreme . 
She was unable to speak ; and Harold went on -- `` Though I am close on thirty-five , I never met with a woman at all like you before . 
Here at last Harold had stirred the right fibre . 
She paused at the glass door that opened on the terrace , and entered there , while Harold went round to the stables . 
Denner , peering and smiling quietly , was about to reply , when she was prevented by the appearance of old Mr Transome , who since his walk had been having `` forty winks '' on the sofa in the library , and now came out to look for Harry . 
He had doffed his furred cap and cloak , but in lying down to sleep he had thrown over his shoulders a soft Oriental scarf which Harold had given him , and this still hung over this scanty white hair and down to his knees , held fast by his wooden-looking arms and laxly clasped hands , which fell in front of him . 
And Mrs Holt rose and curtsied with a proud respect , precisely as she would have done if Mr Transome had looked as wise as Lord Burleigh . 
`` Very glad , my good woman -- sit down -- sit down , '' said Mr Transome , nodding and smiling between his clauses . 
Quite apart from any awe of Mr Transome -- sitting down , she felt , would be a too great familiarity with her own pathetic importance on this extra and unlooked-for occasion . 
said old Mr Transome , feeling himself scolded , and as usual desirousof mollifying displeasure . 
`` Yes -- a very good man -- he 'll do anything right , '' said Mr Transome , whose own ideas about the King just then were somewhat misty , consisting chiefly in broken reminiscences of George the Third . 
Poor old Mr Transome , getting more and more frightened at this severe-spoken woman , who had the horrible possibility to his mind of being a novelty that was to become permanent , seemd to be fascinated by fear , and stood helplessly forgetful that if he liked he might turn round and walk away . 
Esther , who had been waiting for an opportunity of intervention , now came up to Mrs Holt to speak some soothing words ; and old Mr Transome , seeing a sufficient screen between himself and his formidable suppliant , at last gathered courage to turn round and shuffle away with unusual swiftness into the library . 
But there was a fresh resistance raised in Harry by the threatened departure of Job , who had seemed an invaluable addition to the menagerie of tamed creatures ; and it was barely in time that Esther had the relief of seeing the entrance-hall cleared so as to prevent any further encounter of Mrs Holt with Harold , who was now coming up the flight of steps at the entrance . 
Harold Transome had once or twice mentioned the subject with a facile hopefulness as to `` the young fellow 's coming off easily , '' which , in her anxious mind , was not a counterpoise to disquieting suggestions , and she had not chosen to introduce another conversation about Felix Holt , by questioning Harold concerning the probabilities he relied on . 
Since those moments on the terrace , Harold had daily become more of the solicitous and indirectly beseeching lover ; and Esther , from the very fact that she was weighed on by thoughts that were painfully bewildering to her -- by thoughts which , in their newness to her young mind , seemed to shake her belief that life could be anything else than a compromise with things repugnant to the moral taste -- had become more passive to his attentions at the very time that she had begun to feel more profoundly that in accepting Harold Transome she left the high mountain air , the passionate serenity of perfect love for ever behind her , and must adjust her wishes to a life of middling delights , overhung with the languorous haziness of motiveless ease , where poetry was only literature , and the fine ideas had to be taken down from the shelves of the library when her husband 's back was turned . 
In our ears , who know him , it sounds strangely that aught else should be credible ; but he hath few to speak for him , though I trust that Mr Harold Transome 's testimony will go far , if , as you say , he is disposed to set aside all minor regards , and not to speak the truth grudgingly and reluctantly . 
`` He is kind ; he is capable of being generous , '' said Esther . 
Her domestication with this family had brought them into the foreground of her imagination ; the gradual wooing of Harold had acted on her with a constant immediate influence that predominated over all indefinite prospects ; and a solitary elevation to wealth , which out of Utopia she had no notion how she should manage , looked as chill and dreary as the offer of dignities in an unknown country . 
In that way Esther won her end without needing to betray it ; and as Harold was already away at Loamford , she was the more secure . 
`` It is thought that in the worst case a pardon may be obtained , '' said Esther , avoiding Harold Transome 's name . 
`` I do n't rely on that , '' said Felix , shaking his head . 
But you know , '' he went on , smiling at her brightly , `` I never went in for fine company and cushions . 
She saw a peculiar smile , which she knew well , gathering in his eyes . 
He smiled , and took her two hands between his , pressed together as children hold them up in prayer . 
And they stood in that way while he went on speaking . 
But she said no more , though he seemed to wait for it a moment or two , looking at her . 
But then he went on -- `` I do n't mean to be illustrious , you know , and make a new era , else it would be kind of you to get a raven and teach it to croak ` failure ' in my ears . 
`` All your tastes are gratified now , '' he went on innocently . 
One thought in the mind of Felix was , that Esther was sure to marry Harold Transome . 
But he could not allude to the marriage more directly . 
He was afraid of this destiny for her , without having any very distinct knowledge by which to justify his fear to the mind of another . 
It did not satisfy him that Esther should marry Harold Transome . 
Harold had received them at the hotel , and had observed that Esther looked ill , and was unusually abstracted in her manner , but this seemed to be sufficiently accounted for by her sympathetic anxiety about the result of a trial in which the prisoner at the bar was a friend , and in which both her father and himself were important witnesses . 
Harold was particularly delicate and unobtrusive in his attentions to-day : he had the consciousness that he was going to behave in a way that would gratify Esther and win her admiration , and we are all of us made more graceful by the inward presence of what we believe to be a generous purpose ; our actions move to a hidden music -- `` a melody that 's sweetly pitched in tune . '' 
But it was due also to whisperings that she was an hereditary claimant of the Transome estates , whom Harold Transome was about to marry . 
Harold himself had of late not cared to conceal either the fact or the probability : they both tended rather to his honour than his dishonour . 
`` He is really a fine young fellow , '' said Harold , coming to speak to Esther after a colloquy with the prisoner 's solicitor . 
Felix had seemed to include her in his general glance , but had avoided looking at her particularly . 
She understood how delicate feeling for her would prevent this , and that she might safely look at him , and towards her father , whom she could see in the same direction . 
Turning to Harold to make an observation , she saw that he was looking towards the same point , but with an expression on his face that surprised her . 
I am angry at something I 'm looking away from , '' said Harold , making an effort to drive back the troublesome demon who would stare out at window . 
`` It 's that Jermyn , '' he added , glancing at his mother as well as Esther . 
`` I foresaw he would make a blunder , '' said Harold , in a low voice to Esther . 
Then , seeing her shrink a little , he feared she might suspect him of being merely stung by the allusion to himself . 
`` I do n't mean what he said about the Radical candidate , '' he added hastily , in correction . 
He stated further that he had been present when an interview had occurred in his own house between the prisoner and Mr Harold Transome , who was then canvassing for the representation of North Loamshire . 
That the object of the prisoner in seeking this interview had been to inform Mr Transome of treating given in his name to the workmen in the pits and on the canal at Sproxton , and to remonstrate against its continuance ; the prisoner fearing that disturbance and mischief might result from what he believed to be the end towards which this treating was directed -- namely , the presence of these men on the occasions of the nomination and polling . 
The next witness , and the one on whom the interest of the spectators was chiefly concentrated , was Harold Transome . 
Harold was keenly alive to this , and to everything else that might prove disagreeable to him in his having to appear in the witness-box . 
But he was not likely to lose his self-possession , or to fail in adjusting himself gracefully , under conditions which most men would find it difficult to carry without awkwardness . 
He had generosity and candour enough to bear Felix Holt 's proud rejection of his advances without any petty resentment ; he had all the susceptibilties of a gentleman ; and these moral qualities gave the right direction to his acumen , in judging of the behaviour that would best secure his dignity . 
Everything requiring self-command was easier to him because of Esther 's presence ; for her admiration was just then the object which this well-tanned man of the world had it most at heart to secure . 
Harold Transome declared that he had had only one interview with the prisoner : it was the interview referred to by the previous witness , in whose presence and in whose house it was begun . 
Harold spoke with as noticeable a directness and emphasis , as if what he said could have no reaction on himself . 
He had of course not entered unnecessarily into what occurred in Jermyn 's office . 
But now he was subjected to a cross-examination on this subject , which gave rise to some subdued shrugs , smiles , and winks , among county gentlemen . 
The questions were directed so as to bring out , if possible , some indication that Felix Holt was moved to his remonstrance by personal resentment against the political agents concerned in setting on foot the treating at Sproxton , but such questioning is a sort of target-shooting that sometimes hits about widely . 
Under the fire of various questions about Jermyn and the agent employed by him at Sproxton , Harold got warm , and in one of his replies said , with his rapid sharpness , `` Mr Jermyn was my agent then , not now : I have no longer any but hostile relations with him . '' 
The sense that he had shown a slight heat would have vexed Harold more if he had not got some satisfaction out of the thought that Jermyn heard those words . 
Harold replied , with quiet fluency , `` Yes ; on my return to England , before I put up for North Loamshire , I got the best advice from practised agents , both Whig and Tory . 
Harold Transome had not been able to get back to her on leaving the witness-box , but Mr Lingon was close by her . 
Before Harold was aware of Esther 's intention she was on her way to the witness-box . 
A sort of gleam seemed to shoot across his face , and any one close to him could have seen that his hand , which lay on the edge of the dock , trembled . 
At the first moment Harold was startled and alarmed ; the next , he felt delight in Esther 's beautiful aspect , and in the admiration of the Court . 
Harold Transome was ready to give her his hand and lead her back to her place . 
Esther seemed now so tremulous , and looked so ill , that Harold begged her to leave the Court with his mother and Mr Lingon . 
He would come and tell her the issue . 
She was inwardly resolved to see Felix to the last moment before he left the Court . 
Before the trial commenced , Sir Maximus had naturally been one of those who had observed Esther with curiosity , owing to the report of her inheritance , and her probable marriage to his once welcome but now exasperating neighbour , Harold Transome ; and he had made the emphatic comment -- `` A fine girl ! 
As soon as he could take his brother by the buttonhole , he said , `` I tell you what , Gus ! 
Harold Transome had been energetically active in bringing about this meeting . 
Over and above the stings of conscience and a determination to act up to the level of all recognised honourableness , he had the powerful motive of desiring to do what would satisfy Esther . 
His gradually heightened perception that she had a strong feeling towards Felix Holt had not made him uneasy . 
Harold had a conviction that might have seemed like fatuity if it had not been that he saw the effect he produced on Esther by the light of his opinions about women in general . 
The conviction was , that Felix Holt could not be his rival in any formidable sense : Esther 's admiration for this eccentric young man was , he thought , a moral enthusiasm , a romantic fervour , which was one among those many attractions quite novel in his own experience ; her distress about the trouble of one who had been a familiar object in her former home , was no more than naturally followed from a tender woman 's compassion . 
It is undeniable , that what most conduced to the quieting nature of Harold 's conclusions was the influence on his imagination of the more or less detailed reasons that Felix Holt was a watchmaker , that his home and dress were of a certain quality , that his person and manners -- that , in short -LRB- for Harold , like the rest of us , had many impressions which saved him the trouble of distinct ideas -RRB- , Felix Holt was not the sort of man a woman would be likely to be in love with when she was wooed by Harold Transome . 
Thus , he was sufficiently at rest on this point not to be exercising any painful self-conquest in acting as the zealous advocate of Felix Holt 's cause with all persons worth influencing ; but it was by no direct intercourse between him and Sir Maximus that they found themselves in co-operation , for the old baronet would not recognise Harold by more than the faintest bow , and Harold was not a man to expose himself to a rebuff . 
Whatever he in his inmost soul regarded as nothing more than a narrow prejudice , he could defy , not with airs of importance , but with easy indifference . 
He could bear most things good-humouredly where he felt that he had the superiority . 
After his interview with Mrs Transome there had been for some reasons a delay of positive procedures against him by Harold , of which delay Jermyn had twice availed himself ; first , to seek an interview with Harold , and then to send him a letter . 
The interview had been refused ; and the letter had been returned , with the statement that no communication could take place except through Harold 's lawyers . 
Since Harold would not give Jermyn access to him , that vigorous attorney was resolved to take it . 
He knew all about the meeting at the White Hart , and he was going thither with the determination of accosting Harold . 
He thought he knew what he should say , and the tone in which he should say it . 
It would be a vague intimation , carrying the effect of a threat , which should compel Harold to give him a private interview . 
To any counter-consideration that presented itself in his mind -- to anything that an imagined voice might say -- the imagined answer arose , `` That 's all very fine , but I 'm not going to be ruined if I can help it -- least of all , ruined in that way . '' 
When Jermyn entered the room at the White Hart he did not immediately see Harold . 
His entrance excited no peculiar observation : several persons had come in late . 
Only one or two , who knew Jermyn well , were not too much preoccupied to have a glancing remembrance of what had been chatted about freely the day before -- Harold 's irritated reply about his agent , from the witness-box . 
Receiving and giving a slight nod here and there , Jermyn pushed his way , looking round keenly , until he saw Harold standing near the other end of the room . 
The solicitor who had acted for Felix was just then speaking to him , but having put a paper into his hand turned away ; and Harold , standing isolated , though at no great distance from others , bent his eyes on the paper . 
He looked brilliant that morning ; his blood was flowing prosperously . 
He had come in after a ride , and was additionally brightened by rapid talk and the excitement of seeking to impress himself favourably , or at least powerfully , on the minds of neighbours nearer or more remote . 
He had just that amount of flush which indicates that life is more enjoyable than usual ; and as he stood with his left hand caressing his whisker , and his right holding the paper and his riding-whip , his dark eyes running rapidly along the written lines , and his lips reposing in a curve of good-humour which had more happiness in it than a smile , all beholders might have seen that his mind was at ease . 
The two men were of the same height , and before Harold looked round Jermyn 's voice was saying , close to his ear , not in a whisper , but in a hard , incisive , disrespectful and yet not loud tone . 
`` Mr Transome , I must speak to you in private . '' 
The sound jarred through Harold with a sensation all the more insufferable because of the revulsion from the satisfied , almost elated , state in which it had seized him . 
He started and looked round into Jermyn 's eyes . 
Harold felt himself going to crush this insolence : Jermyn felt that he had words within him that were fangs to clutch this obstinate strength , and wring forth the blood and compel submission . 
At that sound , quick as a leaping flame , Harold had struck Jermyn across the face with his whip . 
Jermyn , a powerful man , had instantly thrust out his hand and clutched Harold hard by the clothes just below the throat , pushing him slightly so as to make him stagger . 
By this time everybody 's attention had been called to this end of the room , but both Jermyn and Harold were beyond being arrested by any consciousness of spectators . 
said Harold , fiercely , `` or I 'll be the death of you . '' 
In the thrust by which Harold had been made to stagger backward a little , the two men had got very near the long mirror . 
As Harold heard the last terrible words he started at a leaping throb that went through him , and in the start turned his eyes away from Jermyn 's face . 
He turned them on the same face in the glass with his own beside it , and saw the hated fatherhood reasserted . 
But in the same moment Jermyn released his hold , and Harold felt himself supported by the arm . 
It was Sir Maximus Debarry who had taken hold of him . 
`` Come , Harold , '' he said , in the old friendly voice , `` come away with me . '' 
A little after five o'clock that day , Harold arrived at Transome Court . 
As he was winding along the broad road of the park , some parting gleams of the March sun pierced the trees here and there , and threw on the grass a long shadow of himself and the groom riding , and illuminated a window or two of the home he was approaching . 
Harold just touched the boy 's head , and then said to Dominic in a weary voice . 
Harold , throwing off his hat and greatcoat , went straight to his mother 's dressing-room . 
There was still a hope in his mind . 
He might be suffering simply from a lie . 
There is much misery created in the world by mere mistake or slander , and he might have been stunned by a lie suggested by such slander . 
He rapped at his mother 's door . 
But when she saw Harold , a dreadful certainty took possession of her . 
Harold 's face told her what to fear the more decisively , because she had never before seen it express a man 's deep agitation . 
Harold looked as if he had been wrestling , and had had some terrible blow . 
His eyes had that sunken look which , because it is unusual , seems to intensify expression . 
He looked at his mother as he entered , and her eyes followed him as he moved , till he came and stood in front of her , she looking up at him , with white lips . 
`` Mother , '' he said , speaking with a distinct slow-ness , in strange contrast with his habitual manner , `` tell me the truth , that I may know how to act . '' 
He paused a moment , and then said , `` Who is my father ? '' 
Harold stood silent for a few moments , as if waiting . 
Then he spoke again . 
He looked still at his mother . 
She seemed as if age were striking her with a sudden wand -- as if her trembling face were getting haggard before him . 
In that moment Harold felt hard : he could show no pity . 
All the pride of his nature rebelled against his sonship . 
That day Esther dined with old Mr Transome only . 
Harold sent word that he was engaged and had already dined , and Mrs Transome that she was feeling ill . 
Esther was much disappointed that any tidings Harold might have brought relating to Felix were deferred in this way ; and , her anxiety making her fearful , she was haunted by the thought that if there had been anything cheering to tell , he would have found time to tell it without delay . 
Old Mr Transome went as usual to his sofa in the library to sleep after dinner , and Esther had to seat herself in the small drawing-room , in a well-lit solitude that was unusually dispiriting to her . 
Just then Dominic came to say that Mr Harold sent his compliments , and begged that she would grant him an interview in his study . 
He disliked the small drawing-room : if she would oblige him by going to the study at once , he would join her very soon . 
What she most feared or hoped in these moments related to Felix Holt , and it did not occur to her that Harold could have anything special to say to her that evening on other subjects . 
All the little objects of luxury around indicated Harold 's habitual occupancy ; and as Esther sat opposite all these things along with the empty chair which suggested the coming presence , the expectation of his beseeching homage brought with it an impatience and repugnance which she had never felt before . 
While these feelings were strongly upon her , the door opened and Harold appeared . 
He had recovered his self-possession since his interview with his mother : he had dressed , and was perfectly calm . 
He had been occupied with resolute thoughts , determining to do what he knew that perfect honour demanded , let it cost him what it would . 
It is true he had a tacit hope behind , that it might not cost him what he prized most highly : it is true he had a glimpse even of reward ; but it was not less true that he would have acted as he did without that hope or glimpse . 
It was the most serious moment in Harold Transome 's life : for the first time the iron had entered into his soul , and he felt the hard pressure of our common lot , the yoke of that mighty resistless destiny laid upon us by the acts of other men as well as our own . 
When Esther looked at him she relented , and felt ashamed of her gratuitous impatience . 
She saw that his mind was in some way burdened . 
But then immediately sprang the dread that he had to say something hopeless about Felix . 
They shook hands in silence , Esther looking at him with anxious surprise . 
He released her hand , but it did not occur to her to sit down , and they both continued standing on the hearth . 
`` Do n't let me alarm you , '' said Harold , seeing that her face gathered solemnity from his . 
`` But , '' said Harold , after a slight pause , and in a voice that was weighted with new feeling , `` it involves a difference in my position with regard to you ; and it is on this point that I wished to speak to you at once . 
While Esther continued to look at him , with eyes widened by anxious expectation , Harold turned a little , leaned on the mantelpiece , and ceased to look at her as he spoke . 
Harold 's voice and words moved her so much that her own task seemed more difficult than she had before imagined . 
It seemed as if the silence , unbroken by anything but the clicking of the fire , had been long , before Harold turned round towards her again and said . 
Harold commanded himself strongly , and said , `` What is to be done now is , that we should proceed at once to the necessary legal measures for putting you in possession of your own , and arranging mutual claims . 
Her sympathy with Harold at this moment was so strong , that it spread itself like a mist over all previous thought and resolve . 
It was impossible now to wound him afresh . 
With her hand still resting on his arm , she said timidly , `` Should you be urged -- obliged to go -- in any case ? '' 
`` Not in every case , perhaps , '' Harold said , with an evident movement of the blood towards his face ; `` at least not for long , not for always . '' 
Esther was conscious of the gleam in his eyes . 
She was moving her hand from his arm , when Harold took it reverentially and raised it to his lips . 
She turned towards her chair , and as he released her hand she sank down on the seat with a sense that she needed that support . 
She did not want to go away from Harold yet . 
She must resign herself to depend entirely on his recollection of anything beyond his own immediate trial . 
She sat helpless under contending sympathies , while Harold stood at some distance from her , feeling more harassed by weariness and uncertainty , now that he had fulfilled his resolve , and was no longer under the excitement of actually fulfilling it . 
Esther 's last words had forbidden his revival of the subject that was necessarily supreme with him . 
But still she sat there , and his mind , busy as to the probabilities of her feeling , glanced over all she had done and said in the later days of their intercourse . 
It was this retrospect that led him to say at last , `` You will be glad to hear that we shall get a very powerfully signed memorial to the Home Secretary about young Holt . 
This was what Esther had been yearning to hear and dared not ask , as well from respect for Harold 's absorption in his own sorrow , as from the shrinking that belongs to our dearest need . 
Harold did not gather that this was what Esther had waited for , or that the change in her indicated more than he had expected her to feel at this allusion to an unusual act which she had done under a strong impulse . 
Harold went to his bedroom on the same level with his study , thinking of the morning with an uncertainty that dipped on the side of hope . 
This sweet woman , for whom he felt a passion newer than any he had expected to feel , might possibly make some hard things more bearable -- if she loved him . 
If not -- well , he had acted so that he could defy any one to say he was not a gentleman . 
And Harold Transome 's love , no longer a hovering fancy with which she played , but become a serious fact , seemed to threaten her with a stifling oppression . 
Yet what had happened that very evening had strengthened her liking for Harold , and her care for all that regarded him : it had increased her repugnance to turning him out of anything he had expected to be his , or to snatching anything from him on the ground of an arbitrary claim . 
It had even made her dread , as a coming pain , the task of saying anything to him that was not a promise of the utmost comfort under this newly-disclosed trouble of his . 
-- When Denner had gone up to her mistress 's room to dress her for dinner , she had found her seated just as Harold had found her , only with eyelids dropping and trembling over slowly-rolling tears -- nay , with a face in which every sensitive feature , every muscle , seemed to be quivering with a silent endurance of some agony . 
At last , when the evening was far gone , Mrs Transome said , `` Go down , Denner , and find out where Harold is , and come back and tell me . '' 
`` Shall I ask him to come to you , madam ? '' 
Denner brought word that Mr Harold was in his study , and that Miss Lyon was with him . 
He had not dined , but had sent later to ask Miss Lyon to go into his study . 
What had Harold told her -- what had passed between them ? 
Harold was fond of this young creature , who had been always sweet and reverential to her . 
As Esther saw that image of restless misery , it blent itself by a rapid flash with all that Harold had said in the evening . 
`` No -- tell me , dear -- tell me what Harold said . '' 
`` That he has had some new trouble . '' 
`` He said nothing hard about me ? '' 
He did not mention you . '' 
Harold knows it , and yet he is hard to me . '' 
`` He will not be . 
To-morrow he will not be . 
I am sure he will be good , '' said Esther , pleadingly . 
`` Remember -- he said to me his trouble was new -- he has not had time . '' 
Do you think Mr Harold is out of his room ? '' 
`` Yes , a long while ; he was out earlier than usual . '' 
`` Will you ask him to come up here ? 
When Harold entered , Esther was leaning against the back of the empty chair where yesterday he had seen his mother sitting . 
He was in a state of wonder and suspense , and when Esther approached him and gave him her hand , he said , in a startled way , `` Good God ! 
said Harold . 
A painful thrill passed through Harold , and showed itself in his face with that pale rapid flash which can never be painted . 
Then with delicate instinct , she added , just laying her hand on his sleeve , `` I know you would have come . 
Harold just laid his right hand for an instant on the back of Esther 's as it rested on his sleeve , and then stepped softly to his mother 's bedside . 
An hour afterwards , when Harold had laid his mother 's pillow afresh , and sat down again by her , she said , `` If that dear thing will marry you , Harold , it will make up to you for a great deal . '' 
But before the day closed Harold knew that this was not to be . 
Harold heard from Esther 's lips that she loved some one else , and that she resigned all claim to the Transome estates . 
`` You are not going to be married to Harold Transome , or to be rich ? '' 
`` I did not wish to marry him , or to be rich . '' 
But he got his thousand pounds from Harold Transome . 
