After vainly waiting for an answer , much beyond the accustomed time when children are baptised , Mrs. Douglas could no longer refuse to accede to the desires of the venerable inmates of Glenfern ; and about a month before her favoured sister received her more elegant appellations , the neglected twin was baptized by the name of Mary . 
To engraft into her infant soul the purest principles of religion , was therefore the chief aim of Mary 's preceptress . 
The fear of God was the only restraint imposed upon her dawning intellect ; and from the Bible alone was she taught the duties of morality -- not in the form of a dry code of laws , to be read with a solemn face on Sundays , or learned with weeping eyes as a week-day task -- but adapted to her youthful capacity by judicious illustration , and familiarized to her taste by hearing its stories and precepts from the lips she best loved . 
A portion of Mary 's time was therefore devoted to the daily practice of the great duties of life ; in administering , in some shape or other , to the wants and misfortunes of her fellow-creatures , without requiring from them that their virtue should have been immaculate , or expecting that their gratitude should be everlasting . 
But , although Mary strenuously applied herself to the uses of life , its embellishments were by no means neglected . 
She was happily endowed by nature ; and , under the judicious management of her aunt , made rapid though unostentatious progress in the improvement of the talents committed to her care . 
Without having been blessed with the advantages of a dancing-master , her step was light , and her motions free and graceful ; and if her aunt had not been able to impart to her the favourite graces of the most fashionable singer of the day , neither had she thwarted the efforts of her own natural taste , in forming a style full of simplicity and feeling . 
In the modern languages she was perfectly skilled ; and if her drawings wanted the enlivening touches of the master to give them effect ; as an atonement , they displayed a perfect knowledge of the rules of perspective and the study of the bust . 
All this was however mere leather and prunella to the ladies of Glenfern ; and many were the cogitations and consulatations that took place on the subject of Mary 's mismanagement . 
Miss Jacky deponed , that during the month she was there , she never could discover when or how it was , that Mary got her lessons ; luckily the child was quick , and had contrived , poor thing ! 
to pick up things wonderfully , nobody knew how , for it was really astonishing to see how little pains were bestowed upon her ; and the worst of it was , that she seemed to do just as she liked , for nobody ever heard her reproved , and every body knew that young people never could have enough said to them . 
`` It really appears , as if Mary , poor thing ! 
was getting no education at all ; and yet she can do things , too . 
I ca n't understand it ; and its very odd in Mrs. Douglas to allow her to be so much neglected , for certainly Mary 's constantly with herself ; which , to be sure , shews that she is very much spoilt ; for although our girls are as fond of us as , I am sure , any creatures can be , yet , at the same time , they are always very glad -- which is quite natural -- to run away from us . '' 
`` I think its high time Mary had done something fit to be seen , '' said Miss Nicky . 
`` She is now sixteen past . '' 
`` Most girls of Mary 's time of life , that ever I had any thing to do with , '' replied Jacky , with a certain wave of the head , peculiar to sensible women , `` had something to shew before her age . 
`` And as to Mary 's drawing , '' continued the narrator of her deficiencies , `` there is not one of them fit for framing ; mere scratches with a chalk pencil -- what any child might do . '' 
I represented all that to Mrs. Douglas , and urged her very strongly to give Mary the benefit of , at least , a quarter of Miss Macgowk 's , were it only for the sake of her carriage ; or , at least , to make her wear our collar . '' 
The collar had long been a galling yoke upon their minds ; its iron had entered into their very souls ; for it was a collar presented to the family of Glenfern , by the wisest , virtuousest , best of women , and of grandmothers , the good Lady Girnachgowl ; and had been worn in regular rotation by every female of the family , till now , that Mrs. Douglas positively refused to subject Mary 's pliant form to its thraldom . 
`` Mary 's back wo n't be worth a farthing ; and we have always been quite famous for our backs . '' 
With regard to Mary 's looks , opinions were not so decided . 
She never supped her broth in a wise-like way at dinner ; and it was a shame to hear of a girl of Mary 's age being set up with tea to her breakfast , and wearing white petticoats in winter -- and such roads , too ! 
Let me then strive to make Mary virtuous , and leave the rest to Him who alone knoweth what is good for us ! '' 
But Mary 's back , and Mary 's complexion , now ceased to be the first objects of interest at Glenfern ; for , to the inexpressible delight and amazement of the sisters , Mrs. Douglas , after due warning , became the mother of a son . 
You , aunt Grizzy , may remember how desirous you were of administering one of Lady Maclaughlan 's powders to my little boy yesterday ; and you , aunt Jacky , made a point of trying Lady Girnachgowl 's collar upon Mary , to convince her how pleasant it was ; while you , aunt Nicky , had experienced a great alarm in supposing your cake had been burned in the oven . 
The calm and manly sorrow of the son ; the saint-like feelings of his wife ; the youthful agitation of Mary ; the weak superstitious wailings of the sisters ; and the loud uncontrolled lamentations of the daughters ; all betokened an intensity of suffering that arose from the same source , varied according to the different channels in which it flowed . 
Mrs. Douglas and Mary were differently affected . 
The impression made upon Mary 's feelings was of a more powerful nature . 
She had witnessed suffering , and watched by sick-beds ; but death , and death in so terrific a form , was new to her . 
She had been standing by her grandfather 's chair -- her head was bent to his -- her hand rested upon his , when , by a momentary convulsion , she beheld the last dread change -- the living man transformed into the lifeless corpse . 
It was in vain that Mary prayed , and reasoned , and strove against the feelings that had been thus powerfully excited . 
One object alone possessed her imagination -- the image of her grandfather dying -- dead ; his grim features -- his ghastly visage -- his convulsive grasp -- were ever present , by day and by night . 
Her nervous system had received a shock too powerful for all the strength of her understanding to contend with . 
Though Mary had been healthy in childhood , her constitution was naturally delicate , and she had latterly outgrown her strength . 
The shock she had sustained by her grandfather 's death , thus operating on a weakened frame , had produced an effect apparently most alarming ; and the efforts she made to exert herself , only served to exhaust her . 
She felt all the watchful solicitude , the tender anxieties of her aunt , and bitterly reproached herself with not better repaying these exertions for her happiness . 
A thousand times she tried to analyse and extirpate the saddening impression that weighed upon her heart . 
`` It is not sorrow , '' reasoned she with herself , `` that thus oppresses me ; for though I reverenced my grandfather , yet the loss of his society has scarcely been felt by me . 
Mary was unskilled to answer . 
Her 's was the season for feeling , not for reasoning . 
She knew not that her 's was the struggle of imagination striving to maintain its ascendancy over reality . 
She had heard and read , and thought , and talked of death ; but it was of death in its fairest form -- in its softest transition : and the veil had been abruptly torn from her eyes ; the gloomy pass had suddenly disclosed itself before her , not strewed with flowers , but shrouded in horrors . 
Like all persons of sensibility , Mary had a disposition to view every thing in a beau-idéal : whether that is a boon most fraught with good or ill , it were difficult to ascertain . 
This , then , was Mary 's first lesson in what is called the knowledge of life , as opposed to the beau-idéal of a young and ardent imagination , in love with life , and luxuriating in its own happiness . 
While Mary had prospered under her management , in the consciousness that she was fulfilling her duty to the best of her abilities , she could listen , with placid cheerfulness , to the broken hints of disapprobation , or forced good wishes for the success of her newfangled schemes , that were levelled at her by the sisters . 
But now , when her cares seemed defeated , it was an additional thorn in her heart to have to endure the common-place wisdom , and self-gratulations of the almost exulting aunts ; not that they had the slightest intention of wounding the feelings of their niece , whom they really loved , but the temptation was irresistible of proving , that they had been in the right , and she in the wrong , especially as no such acknowledgment had yet been extorted from her . 
`` It is nonsense to ascribe Mary 's dwining to her grandfather 's death , '' said Miss Jacky . 
`` We were all nearer to him in propinquity than she was , and none of our healths have suffered . '' 
`` With their fine feelings , I 'm sure , we have all reason to be thankful that they have been blest with such hearty stomachs , '' observed Miss Grizzy ; `` if they had been delicate , like poor Mary 's , I 'm sure , I declare , I do n't know what we would have done ; for certainly they were all most dreadfully affected at their excellent father 's death ; which was quite natural , poor things ! 
I 'm certain all Mary 's bad health is entirely owing to reading . 
You know , we always thought she read a great deal too much for her good . '' 
`` To be sure , '' returned Grizzy , `` it is a thousand pities that Mary has been allowed to go on so long ; not , I 'm sure , that any of us mean to reflect upon you , my dear Mrs. Douglas ; for of course it was all owing to your ignorance and inexperience ; and that , you know , you could not help ; for it was not your fault ; nobody can blame you . 
Indeed it has been the study of her life almost ; for , you know , poor Sir Sampson is never well ; and , I dare say , if Mary had taken some of her nice wormlozenges , which certainly cured Duncan M'Nab 's wife 's daughter 's little girl of the jaundice , and used that valuable growing embrocation , which we are all sensible made Babby a great deal fatter , I dare say there would have been nothing the matter with her to-day . '' 
`` Mary has been too much accustomed to spend both her time and money amongst idle vagrants , '' said Nicky . 
Well it was known , and frequently was it discussed , the iniquity of Mary being allowed to waste her time , and squander her money amongest the poor , instead of being taught the practical virtues of making her own gowns , and of hoarding up her pocket-money for some selfish gratification . 
In colloquies such as these , day after day passed on without any visible improvement taking place in her health . 
In this dilemma , the only resource that offered , was that of sending Mary for a few months to her mother . 
This was all that Mary knew of her mother , and the rest of her family were still geater strangers to her . 
Her father remained in a distant station in India , and was seldom heard of . 
Her brother was gone to sea ; and though she had written repeatedly to her sister , her letters remained unnoticed . 
Under these circumstances , there was something revolting in the idea of obtruding Mary upon the notice of her relations , and trusting to their kindness even for a few months ; yet her health , perhaps her life , was at stake , and Mrs. Douglas felt she had scarcely a right to hesitate . 
`` Mary has perhaps been too long an alien from her own family , '' said she to herself ; `` this will be a means of her becoming acquainted with them , and of introducing her to that sphere in which she is probably destined to walk . 
Under her uncle 's roof she will surely be safe , and in the society of her mother and sister she can not be unhappy . 
New scenes will give a stimulus to her mind ; the necessity of exertion will brace the languid faculties of her soul , and a few short months , I trust , will restore her to me such , and even superior to what she was . 
Mary listened to her communication with a throbbing heart , and eyes suffused with tears ; to part from her aunt was agony ; but to behold her mother -- she to whom she owed her existence -- to embrace a sister too -- and one for whom she felt all those mysterious yearnings which twins are said to entertain towards each other . 
-- O , there was rapture in the thought , and Mary 's buoyant heart fluctuated between the extremes of anguish and delight . 
Lady Maclaughlan had a high opinion of English air ; but then they had heard the moral of the people were not so good , and there were in a great many dissipated young men in England ; though , to be sure , there was no denying but the mineral waters were excellent ; and , in short , it ended in Miss Grizzy 's sitting down to concoct an epistle to Lady Maclaughlan ; in Miss Jacky 's beginning to draw up a code of instructions , for a young woman upon her entrance into life ; and Miss Nicky hoping , that if Mary did go , she would take care not to bring back any extravagant English notions with her . 
The younger set debated amongst themselves how many of them would be invited to accompany Mary to England , and from thence fell to disputing the possession of a brown hair trunk , with a flourished D , in brass letters , on the top . 
Such were the female members of the family to whom Mary was about to be introduced . 
In her mother 's heart she had no place , for of her absent husband and neglected daughter she seldom thought ; and their letters were scarcely read , and rarely answered . 
And , snatching up a pen , she instantly began a letter to Mary . 
Little weened the good ladies of Glenfern the ungracious reception their protégé was likely to experience from her mother ; for in spite of the defects of her education , Mary was a general favourite in the family ; and however they might solace themselves by depreciating her to Mrs. Douglas , to the world in general , and their young female acquaintances in particular , she was upheld as an epitome of every perfection above and below the sun . 
Had it been possible for them to conceive that Mary could have been received with any thing short of rapture , Lady Juliana 's letter might , in some measure , have opened the eyes of their understanding ; but to the guileless sisters , it seemed every thing that was proper . 
But as their minds never maintained a just equilibrium long upon any subject , but , like falsely adjusted scales , were ever hovering and vibrating at either extreme -- so they could not rest satisfied in the belief that Mary was to be happy -- there must be something to counteract that stilling sentiment ; and that was the apprehension that Mary would be spoilt . 
`` I declare , Mary , my sisters , and I , could get no sleep last night for thinking of you , '' said Miss Grizzy ; `` we are all certain that Lady Juliana especially , but indeed all your English relations , will think so much of you -- from not knowing you , you know -- which will be quite natural . 
`` Mary 's head is on her shoulders to little purpose , '' followed up Miss Jacky , `` if she ca n't stand being made of when she goes amongst strangers ; and she ought to know by this time , that a mother 's partiality is no proof of a child 's merit . '' 
`` You hear that , Mary , '' rejoined Miss Grizzy : `` So I 'm sure I hope you wo n't mind a word that your mother says to you , I mean about yourself ; for , of course , you know , she ca n't be such a good judge of you as us , who have known you all your life . 
`` And I hope , Mary , you will take care and not get into the daadlin ' handless ways of the English women , '' said Miss Nicky ; `` I would n't give a pin for an English-woman . '' 
`` And I hope you will never look at an Englishman , Mary , '' said Miss Grizzy , with equal earnestness ; `` take my word for it , they are a very dissipated unprincipled set . 
`` Do n't be afraid , my dear aunt , '' said Mary , with a kind caress , `` I shall come back to you your own ` Highland Mary . ' 
`` I 'm delighted to hear you say so , my dear Mary , '' said the literal minded Grizzy : `` Certainly nothing can be prettier than the heather when it 's in flower ; and there is something very manly -- nobody can dispute that -- in high cheek bones : and besides , to tell you a secret , Lady Maclaughlan has a husband in her eye for you -- We , none of us , can conceive who it is , but , of course , he must be suitable in every respect ; for you know Lady Maclaughlan has had three husbands herself , so , of course , she must be an excellent judge of a good husband . '' 
`` Or a bad one , '' said Mary , `` which is the same thing . 
Mrs. Douglas ' ideas and those of her aunts , did not coincide upon this occasion more than upon most others . 
In her sister-in-law 's letter , she flattered herself she saw only fashionable indifference ; and she fondly hoped that would soon give way to a tenderer sentiment , as her daughter became known to her . 
At any rate , it was proper that Mary should make the trial , and which ever way it ended , it must be for her advantage . 
`` Mary has already lived too long in these mountain solitudes , '' thought she ; `` her ideas will become romantic , and her taste fastidious . 
Should she make herself a place in the heart of her mother and sister , it will be so much happiness gained ; and should it prove otherwise , it will be a lesson learnt -- a hard one indeed ! 
It had been arranged by Lady Emily , that a carriage and servants should meet Mary at Edinburgh , whither Mr. Douglas was to convey her . 
The cruel moment came ; and mother , sister , relations , friends , all the bright visions which Mary 's sanguine spirit had conjured up to soften the parting pang , all were absorbed in one agonizing feeling -- one overwhelming thought . 
It seems almost profanation , to mingle with her elevated feelings , the coarse , yet simple sorrows of the aunts , old and young , as they clung around the nearly lifeless Mary , each tendering the parting gift they had kept as a solace for the last . 
Poor Miss Grizzy was more than usually incoherent , as she displayed `` a nice new umbrella that could be turned into a nice walking-stick , or any thing ; '' and a dressing-box , with a little of every thing in it ; and , with a fresh burst of tears , Mary was directed where she would not find eye ointment , and where she was not to look for sticking-plaister . 
Even old Donald had his offering , and , as he stood tottering at the chaise door , he contrived to get a `` bit snishin mull '' laid on Mary 's lap , with a `` God bless her bonny face , an ' may she ne'er want a good sneesh ! '' 
The carriage drove off , and for a while Mary 's eyes were closed in despair . 
But Mary left it not to the slow hand of time to subdue in some measure the grief that swelled her heart . 
Had she given way to selfishness , she would have sought the free indulgence of her sorrow as the only mitigation of it ; but she felt also for her uncle . 
He was depressed at parting with his wife and child , and he was taking a long and dreary journey entirely upon her account . 
Could she therefore be so selfish as to add to his uneasiness by a display of her sufferings ? 
No -- she would strive to conceal it from his observation , though to overcome it was impossible . 
Her feelings must ever remain the same , but she would confine them to her own breast ; and she began to converse with , and even strove to amuse her kind-hearted companion . 
Ever and anon , indeed , a rush of tender recollections came across her mind , and the soft voice , and the bland countenance of her maternal friend , seemed for a moment present to her senses ; and then the dreariness and desolation that succeeded as the delusion vanished , and all was stillness and vacuity ! 
Even self-reproach shot its piercing sting into her ingenuous heart ; levities on which , in her usual gaiety of spirit , she had never bestowed a thought , now appeared to her as crimes of the deepest dye . 
She thought how often she had slighted the counsels and neglected the wishes of her gentle monitress ; how she had wearied of her good old aunts , their cracked voices , and the everlasting tic-a-tic of their knitting needles ; how coarse and vulgar she had sometimes deemed the younger ones ; how she had mimicked Lady Maclaughlan , and caricatured Sir Sampson , and `` even poor dear old Donald , '' said she , as she summed up the catalogue of her crimes , could not escape my insolence and ill nature . 
Others besides Mary seemed to have taken a fanciful pleasure in combining the ideas of the mental and elemental world , for in the dreary dwelling where they were destined to pass the night , she found inscribed the following lines : -- While Mary was trying to decypher these somewhat mystic lines , her uncle was carrying on a colloquy in Gaelic with their hostess . 
She had prepared with her own hands a moorfowl-pye and potted nowt 's head , besides a profusion of what she termed `` trifles , just for Mary , poor thing ! 
in the anguish of separation , the covered basket had been forgot , and the labour of Miss Nicky 's hands fell to be consumed by the family , though Miss Grizzy protested , with tears in her eyes , `` that it went to her heart like a knife , to eat poor Mary 's puffs and snaps . '' 
Change of air , and variety of scene , failed not to produce the happiest effects upon Mary 's languid frame and drooping spirits . 
Her cheek already glowed with health , and was sometimes dimpled with smiles . 
She still wept indeed as she thought of those she had left ; but often while the tear trembled in her eye , its course was arrested by wonder , or admiration , or delight ; for every object had its charms for her . 
Her cultivated taste and unsophisticated mind could descry beauty in the form of a hill , and grandeur in the foam of the wave , and elegance in the weeping birch , as it dipped its now almost leafless boughs in the mountain stream . 
Mr. Douglas was therefore under the necessity of introducing himself and Mary to their ungracious hostess ; briefly stating the circumstances that had led them to be her guests , and dwelling , with much warmth , on the kindness and hospitality of her husband in having relieved them from their embarrassment . 
`` Excuse me , Mr. Douglas , '' said she , making a profound reverence to him , and another to Mary , while she waved her hand for them to be seated . 
Then , with an affected giggle , appealing to Mary , `` I leave you to judge , Miss Douglas , if I look like a person made for running after pigs ! '' 
`` Indeed , '' thought Mary , `` you do n't look like as if you could do any thing half so useful . '' 
Mary tried to look sorrowful , to hide the smile that was dimpling her cheek . 
Mary 's simple dress was quickly adjusted ; and , upon descending , she found her uncle alone in what Mrs. Gawffaw had shewn to her as the drawing-room . 
Poor Mary was doomed to a tetê-à-tête with her during the whole evening ; for Mr. Gawffaw was too happy with his friend , and without his wife , to quit the dining-room till a late hour ; and then he was so much exhilarated , that she could almost have joined Mrs. Gawffaw in her exclamation of `` For heaven 's sake , Mr. Gawffaw , have mercy on my head ! '' 
The night , however , like all other nights , had a close ; and Mrs. Gawffaw , having once more enjoyed the felicity of finding herself in company at twelve o'clock at night , at length withdrew ; and having apologised , and hoped , and feared , for another hour in Mary 's apartment , she finally left her to the blessings of solitude and repose . 
As Mr. Douglas was desirous of reaching Edinburgh the following day , he had , in spite of the urgent remonstrances of his friendly host , and the elegant importunities of his lady , ordered the carriage at an early hour ; and Mary was too eager to quit Howffend to keep it waiting . 
Mr. Gawffaw was in readiness to hand her in , but fortunately Mrs. Gawffaw 's head did not permit of her rising . 
All Mary 's sensations of admiration were faint , compared to those she experienced as she viewed the Scottish metropolis . 
It was associated in her mind , with all the local prepossessions to which youth and enthusiasm love to give `` a local habitation and a name ; '' and visions of older times floated o'er her mind , as she gazed on its rocky battlements , and traversed the lonely arcades of its deserted palace . 
thought she , as she listened to the dreary echo of her own footsteps ; `` and this very ground on which I now stand , was trod by the hapless Mary Stuart ! 
Even the blood-stained chamber possessed a nameless charm for Mary 's vivid imagination . 
She had not entirely escaped the superstitions of the country in which she had lived ; and she readily yielded her assent to the asseverations of her guide , as to its being the bona fide blood of David Rizzio , which , for nearly three hundred years , had resisted all human efforts to efface . 
`` My credulity is so harmless , '' said she in answer to her uncle 's attempt to laugh her out of her belief , `` that I surely may be permitted to indulge it -- especially since , I confess , I feel a sort of indescribable pleasure in it . '' 
mere modern vulgar blood is very shocking , '' answered Mary with a smile ; `` but observe how this is mellowed by time into a tint that could not offend the most fastidious fine lady ; besides , '' added she in a graver tone , `` I own I love to believe in things supernatural ; it seems to connect us more with another world , than when every thing is seen to proceed in the mere ordinary course of nature , as it is called . 
I can not bear to imagine a dreary chasm betwixt the inhabitants of this world , and beings of a higher sphere ; I love to fancy myself surrounded by -- '' `` I wish to heaven you would remember you are surrounded by rational beings , and not fall into such rhapsodies , '' said her uncle , glancing at a party , who stood near them , jesting upon all the objects which Mary had been regarding with so much veneration . 
exclaimed Mary after a long pause , in which she had been rivetted in admiration of the scene before her . 
`` Upon my soul , you will be taken for a Methodist , Mary , if you talk in this manner , '' said Mr. Douglas , with some marks of disquiet , as he turned round at the salutation of a fat elderly gentleman , whom he presently recognised as Bailie Broadfoot . 
The first salutations over , Mr. Douglas ' fears of Mary having been overheard recurred , and he felt anxious to remove any unfavourable impression with regard to his own principles , at least , from the mind of the enlightened magistrate . 
Then observing Mary 's eyes exploring , as he supposed , the town of Leith , `` You see that prospeck to nae advantage the day , Miss , '' said he . 
It was , indeed , deserving of the praises bestowed upon it ; and Mary was giving her whole attention to the details of it , when she was suddenly startled by hearing her own name wailed in piteous accents from one of the lower cells , and , upon turning round , she discovered in the prisoner the son of one of the tenants of Glenfern . 
The regale was admirable , and Mary could not help thinking times were improved , and that it was a better thing to eat tarts in Lord Nelson 's Monument , than to have been poisoned in Julius Cæsar 's . 
said Mary . 
Her uncle hesitated -- `` No , not formidable -- only rather particular , as all old people are ; but she is very good-hearted . '' 
They had now reached the airy dwelling where Mrs. Macshake resided , and having rung , the door was at length most deliberately opened , by an ancient , sour visaged , long waisted female , who ushered them into an apartment , the coup d'oeil of which struck a chill to Mary 's heart . 
I wonder what yer ' e aw made o ' , '' grasping Mary 's arm in her great bony hand -- `` a wheen puir feckless windlestraes -- ye maun awa to Ingland for yere healths . 
Mary , glad of a pretence to indulge the mirth the old lady 's manner and appearance had excited , joined most heartily in the laugh . 
Then after taking an accurate survey of her face , she pushed aside her pelisse -- `` Weel , it 's ae mercy , I see ye hae neither the red heed , nor the muckle cuits o ' the Douglasses . 
said Mary , in a tone of diffidence . 
turning sharply round upon her , `` what ken ye about impruvements , bairn ? 
A bony impruvement or ens no , to see tyleyors and sclaters leavin , whar I mind Jewks an Yerls -- An that great glowrin new toon there , '' pointing out of her windows , `` whar I used to sit an luck oot at bonny green parks , and see the coos milket , and the bit o ' bairnys rowin an ' tummlin , an ' the lasses trampin i ' their tubs -- What see I noo , but stane an lime , an stoor an dirt , an idle cheels , an dinket-oot madams prancin ' . 
Mary found she was not likely to advance her uncle 's fortune by the judiciousness of her remarks , therefore prudently resolved to hazard no more . 
Mr. Douglas , who was more au fait to the prejudices of old age , and who was always amused with her bitter remarks , when they did not touch himself , encouraged her to continue the conversation by some observation on the prevailing manners . 
repeated she , with a contemptuous laugh , `` what caw ye mainers noo , for I dinna ken ; ilk ane gangs bang in till their neebor 's hooss , and bang oo ' t o ' t as it war a chynge hooss ; an as for the maister o ` t , he 's no o ' sae muckle vaalu as the flunky ahint his chyre . 
Then resuming her scrutiny of Mary -- `` An ' I ` se warren ye 'll be lucken for an Inglish sweetheart tu ; that 'll be what 's takin ' ye awa to Ingland . '' 
`` On the contrary , '' said Mr. Douglas , seeing Mary was too much frightened to answer for herself -- `` On the contrary , Mary declares she will never marry any but a true Highlander ; one who wears the dirk and plaid , and has the second-sight . 
And the nuptials are to be celebrated with all the pomp of feudal times ; with bagpipes , and bonfires , and gatherings of clans , and roasted sheep , and barrels of whisky , and -- '' `` Weel a wat an ' she 's i ' the right there , '' interrupted Mrs. Macshake , with more complacency than she had yet shewn . 
`` I dinna mind them whan they war at the best ; but I hae heard my mither tell what a bonny ploy was at her waddin . 
I canna tell ye hoo mony was at it ; mair nor the room wad haud , ye may be sure , for every relation an ' freend o ' baith sides war there , as well they sude ; an ' aw in full dress : the leddies in their hoops round them , an ' some o ' them had sutten up aw night till hae their heads drest ; for they hadnae thae pooket-like taps ye hae noo , '' looking with contempt at Mary 's Grecian contour . 
-- Then observing the indignation that spread over Mr. Douglas ' face , she quickly resumed , `` An ' so ye think the kirsnin was the neist ploy ? 
Sit doon there , '' laying her hand upon his arm , `` an ' rest ye , an ' tak a glass o ' wine , an ' a bit breed ; or may be , '' turning to Mary , `` ye wad rather hae a drap broth to warm ye . 
She had now shuffled along to the further end of the room , and opening a press , took out wine , and a plateful of various-shaped articles of bread , which she handed to Mary . 
Mr. Douglas here paid her some compliments upon her appearance , which were pretty graciously received ; and added that he was the bearer of a letter from his aunt Grizzy , which he would send along with a roebuck and brace of moor-game . 
`` Come , come , sit ye doon there till I speak to this bairn , '' said she , as she pulled Mary into an adjoining bed-chamber , which wore the same aspect of chilly neatness as the one they had quitted . 
`` Hae , bairn , '' said she as she stuffed them into Mary 's hand ; `` they belanged to your faither 's grandmother . 
`` Well , how do you like Mrs. Macshake , Mary ? '' 
Mary could scarcely preserve her gravity at her uncle 's indignation , which seemed so disproportioned to the cause . 
But , to turn the current of his ideas , she remarked , that he had certainly been at pains to select two admirable specimens of her countrywomen for her . 
`` I do n't think I shall soon forget either Mrs. Gawffaw or Mrs. Macshake , '' said she , laughing . 
said her uncle . 
Mary acquiesced with a sigh . 
Return was to her still a melancholy sounding word . 
it reminded her of all she had left -- of the anguish of separation -- the dreariness of absence ; and all these painful feelings were renewed , in their utmost bitterness , when the time approached for her to bid adieu to her uncle . 
Lord Courtland 's carriage , and two respectable looking servants , awaited her ; and the following morning she commenced her journey , in all the agony of a heart that fondly clings to its native home . 
After parting with the last of her beloved relatives , Mary tried to think only of the happiness that awaited her in a re-union with her mother and sister ; and she gave herself up to the blissful reveries of a young and ardent imagination . 
The journey , like most modern journies , was performed in comfort and safety ; and , late one evening , Mary found herself at the goal of her wishes -- at the threshold of the house that contained her mother ! 
One idea filled her mind ; but that idea called up a thousand emotions . 
thought she ; and , unconscious of every thing else , she was assisted from the carriage , and conducted into the house . 
A door was thrown open ; but shrinking from the glare of light and sound of voices that assailed her , she stood dazzled and dismayed , till she beheld a figure approaching that she guessed to be her mother . 
Her heart beat violently -- a film was upon her eyes -- she made an effort to reach her mother 's arms , and sunk lifeless on her bosom ! 
But these kindly feelings were of short duration ; for no sooner was the nature of her daughter 's insensibility ascertained , than all her former hostility returned , as she found every one 's attention directed to Mary , and she herself entirely overlooked in the general interest she had excited ; and her displeasure was still further increased , as Mary , at length slowly unclosing her eyes , stretched out her hands , and faintly articulated , `` My mother ! '' 
thought the fashionable parent to herself ; and , instead of answering her daughter 's appeal , she hastily proposed that she should be conveyed to her own apartment : then , summoning her maid , she consigned her to her care , slightly touching her cheek as she wished her good night , and returned to the card table . 
Adelaide too resumed her station at the harp , as if nothing had happened ; but Lady Emily attended her cousin to her room -- embraced her again and again , as she assured her she loved her already , she was so like her dear Edward : then , after satisfying herself that every thing was comfortable , affectionately kissed her , and withdrew . 
Bodily fatigue got the better of mental agitation ; and Mary slept soundly , and awoke refreshed . 
`` Can it be , '' thought she , as she tried to collect her bewildered thoughts , `` can it be that I have really beheld my mother -- that I have been pressed to her heart -- that she has shed tears over me while I lay unconscious in her arms ? 
In these delightful cogitations , Mary remained till Lady Emily entered . 
`` I am sure I shall have cause , '' said Mary , returning her cousin 's affectionate embrace , `` but at present I feel anxious about my mother and sister . 
The agitation of our meeting , and my weakness , I fear it has been too much for them ; '' and she looked earnestly in Lady Emily 's face for a confirmation of her fears . 
The room was empty ; and again Mary 's sensitive heart trembled for the welfare of those already so dear to her ; but Lady Emily did not appear to understand the nature of her feelings . 
thought Mary , as Lady Emily and she sat like two specks in the splendid saloon , surrounded by all that wealth could purchase , or luxury invent ; and her thoughts reverted to the pious thanksgiving , and affectionate meeting that graced their social meal in the sweet sunny parlour at Lochmarlie . 
Mary , trembling violently , was ready to fall upon her sister 's neck ; but Adelaide seemed prepared to repel every thing like a scène ; for , with a cold , but sweet , `` I hope you are better this morning ? '' 
she seated herself at the opposite side of the table . 
Mary 's blood rushed back to her heart -- her eyes filled with tears , she knew not why ; for she could not analyse the feelings that swelled in her bosom . 
She would have shuddered to think her sister unkind , but she felt she was so . 
`` It can only be the difference of our manners , '' sighed she to herself ; `` I am sure my sister loves me , though she does not shew it in the same way I should have done ; '' and she gazed with the purest admiration and tenderness on the matchless beauty of her face and form . 
Never had she beheld any thing so exquisitely beautiful ; and she longed to throw herself into her sister 's arms , and tell her how she loved her . 
But Adelaide seemed to think the present company wholly unworthy of her regard ; for , after having received the adulation of the gentlemen , as they severally paid her a profusion of compliments upon her appearance , `` Desire Tomkins , '' said she to a footman , `` to ask Lady Juliana for the ` Morning Post , ' and the second volume of ` Le -- , ' of the French novel I am reading ; and say she shall have it again when I have finished it . '' 
`` In what different terms people may express the same meaning , '' thought Mary ; `` had I been sending a message to my mother , I should have expressed myself quite differently ; but no doubt my sister 's meaning is the same , though she may not use the same words . '' 
`` Lady Juliana never reads like any body else , '' said her daughter ; `` she is for ever mislaying books . 
This was uttered in the softest , sweetest tone imaginable , and as if she had been pronouncing a panegyric . 
Mary was more and more puzzled . 
thought she ; `` the words seem almost to imply censure ; but that voice and smile speak the sweetest praise . 
Again Mary found herself assailed by a variety of powerful emotions -- she attempted to rise ; but , pale and breathless , she sunk back in her chair . 
Her agitation was unmarked by her mother , who did not even appear to be sensible of her presence ; for , with a graceful bend of her head to the company in general , she approached Adelaide , and putting her lips to her forehead , `` How do you do , love . 
`` I certainly shall not read the third volume before the second , '' said Adelaide with her usual serenity . 
-- Then directing her eyes to Mary , who had summoned strength to rise , and was slowly venturing to approach her , she extended a finger towards her . 
Mary eagerly seized her mother 's hand , and pressed it with fervour to her lips ; then hid her face on her shoulder to conceal the tears that burst from her eyes . 
said her ladyship in a peevish tone , as she disengaged herself from her daughter ; `` you must really get the better of this foolish weakness ; these scènes are too much for me . 
Poor Mary 's tears congealed in her eyes at this tender salutation ; and she raised her head , as if to ascertain whether it really proceeded from her mother ; but instead of the angelic vision she had pictured to herself , she beheld a face which , though once handsome , now conveyed no pleasurable feeling to the heart . 
Mary almost shrank from the peevish inanity pourtrayed on her mother 's visage , as a glance of the mind contrasted it with the mild eloquence of Mrs. Douglas ' countenance ; and , abashed and disappointed , she remained mournfully silent . 
He has gone somewhere to eat turtle , at the very time I wished to consult him about -- '' `` The propriety of introducing a new niece to your Lordship , '' said Lady Emily , as , with affected solemnity , she introduced Mary to her uncle . 
Such was Mary 's first introduction to her family ; and those only who have felt what it was to have the genial current of their souls chilled by neglect , or changed by unkindness , can sympathise in the feelings of wounded affection -- when the overflowings of a generous heart are confined within the narrow limits of its own bosom , and the offerings of love are rudely rejected by the hand most dear to us . 
Mary was too much intimidated by her mother 's manner towards her , to give way , in her presence , to the emotions that agitated her ; but she followed her sister 's steps as she quitted the room , and , throwing her arms around her , sobbed in a voice almost choked with the excess of her feelings , `` My sister , love me ! 
But Adelaide 's heart , seared by selfishness and vanity , was incapable of loving any thing in which self had no share ; and , for the first time in her life , she felt awkward and embarrassed . 
Her sister 's streaming eyes and supplicating voice spoke a language to which she was a stranger ; for art is ever averse to recognise the accents of nature . 
Still less is it capable of replying to them ; and Adelaide could only wonder at her sister 's agitation , and think how unpleasant it was ; and say something about overcome , and eau-de-luce , and composure ; which was all lost upon Mary as she hung upon her neck , every feeling wrought to its highest tone by the complicated nature of those emotions which swelled her heart . 
At length , making an effort to regain her composure , `` Forgive me , my sister ! '' 
said she . 
but in spite of the faint smile that accompanied her words , tears again burst from her eyes . 
`` I am sure I shall have infinite pleasure in your society , '' replied Adelaide , with her usual sweetness and placidity , as she replaced a ringlet in its proper position ; `` but I have unluckily an engagement at this time . 
You will , however , be at no loss for amusement ; you will find musical instruments there , '' pointing to an adjacent apartment ; `` and here are new publications , and porte feuilles of drawings you will perhaps like to look over ; '' and so saying , she disappeared . 
repeated Mary mechanically to herself : `` what have I to do with them ? 
And she remained overwhelmed with the weight of those emotions , which , instead of pouring into the hearts of others , she was compelled to concentrate in her own . 
Her mournful reveries were interrupted by her kind friend Lady Emily ; but Mary deemed her sorrow too sacred to be betrayed even to her , and therefore rallying her spirits , she strove to enter into those schemes of amusement suggested by her cousin for passing the day . 
But she found herself unable for such continued exertion ; and hearing a large party was expected to dinner , she retired , in spite of Lady Emily 's remonstrance , to her own apartment , where she sought a refuge from her thoughts , in writing to her friends at Glenfern . 
Again Mary 's heart bounded towards the being to whom she owed her birth ; yet afraid to give utterance to her feelings , she could only regard her with silent admiration , till a moment 's consideration convertted that into a less pleasing feeling , as she observed for the first time , that her mother wore no mourning . 
I shall leave you my darling Blanche for a companion , '' kissing a little French lap-dog , as she laid it in Mary 's lap ; `` only you must be very careful of her , and coax her , and be very , very good to her ; for I would not have my sweetest Blanche vexed , not for the world ! '' 
And , with another long and tender salute to her dog , and a `` Good bye , my dear ! '' 
to her daughter , she quitted her to display her charms to a brilliant drawing-room , leaving Mary to solace herself in her solitary chamber with the whines of a discontented lap-dog . 
In spite of the disappointment she had experienced the preceding day , Mary arose the following morning with fresh hopes of happiness springing in her heart . 
`` What a fool I was , '' thought she , `` to view so seriously what , after all , must be merely difference of manner ; and how illiberal to expect every one 's manners should accord exactly with my ideas ; but now that I have got over the first impression , I dare say I shall find every body quite amiable and delightful ! '' 
And Mary quickly reasoned herself into the belief , that she only could have been to blame . 
With renovated spirits she therefore joined her cousin , and accompanied her to the breakfasting saloon . 
`` One of the stories with which my nurse used to amuse my childhood , '' said Mary , `` was that of having seen an itinerant conjurer dress a beaf-steak on his tongue . '' 
The Doctor suspended the morsel he was carrying to his mouth , and for the first time regarded Mary with looks of unfeigned admiration . 
You are a wonderful people , you Scotch -- a very wonderful people -- but , pray , was she at any pains to examine the fellow 's tongue ? '' 
`` I imagine not , '' said Mary ; `` I suppose the love of science was not strong enough to make her run the risk of burning her fingers . '' 
asked Mary , as the Doctor at length , with much reluctance , shuffled out of the room . 
`` It certainly does not require much penetration , '' said Mary , `` to discover the Doctor 's master passion ; love of ease , and self-indulgence , seem to be the predominant features of his mind ; and he looks as if , when he sat in an arm-chair , with his toes on the fender , and his hands crossed , he would not have an idea beyond `` I wonder what we shall have for dinner today . '' 
`` Young ladies are much more housewifely in Scotland than they are in this country , '' continued the Doctor , seating himself as close as possible to Mary , -- `` at least they were when I knew Scotland ; but that 's not yesterday , and it 's much changed since then , I dare say . 
Mary 's heart leapt within her at hearing her dear native land praised even by Dr. Redgill , and her conscience smote her for the harsh and hasty censure she had passed upon him . 
`` One who can admire the scenery of the Highlands , '' thought she , `` must have a mind . 
A London citizen , or a Lincolnshire grazier , sees nothing but deformity in the sublime works of nature , '' ergo , reasoned Mary , `` Dr. Redgill must be of a more elevated way of thinking than I had supposed . 
Mary tried to articulate , but her feelings rose almost to suffocation , and the words died upon her lips . 
`` Your ladyship confounds me , '' said the Doctor , pulling out his spectacles , which , after duly wiping , he adjusted on his nose , and turned their beams full on Mary 's face -- `` I really never should have guessed there was any thing the matter with the young lady . 
`` I thought the breakfasts like every thing else in Scotland , extremely disgusting , '' replied her Ladyship , with indignation . 
Tears dropped from Mary 's eyes . 
`` It appears to me excessively extraordinary , '' said Lady Juliana , addressing Mary , `` that Mrs. Douglas should have alarmed me so much about your health , when , it seems , there 's nothing the matter with you . 
Poor Mary 's feelings were now at their climax , and she gave way to all the repressed agony that swelled her heart . 
exclaimed Mary , trying to regain her composure , `` the fault is mine . 
I know not ; but in some way I have displeased my mother : her looks -- her words -- her manner -- all tell me how dissatisfied she is with me ; while to my sister , and even to her very dogs -- '' Here Mary 's agitation choked her utterance . 
Mary looked hurt , and making an effort to conquer her emotion , she said , `` Mrs. Douglas never spoke of my mother with disrespect ; but she did warn me against expecting too much from her affection . 
`` Lady Juliana is sometimes so odd , '' answered her daughter , in her sweetest tone , `` that I really am seldom surprised at any thing she does ; but all this fracas appears to me perfectly absurd , as nobody minds any thing she says . '' 
exclaimed Mary ; `` my duty must ever be to reverence my mother . 
Adelaide regarded her sister for a moment with a look of surprise ; then rose and left the room , humming an Italian air . 
But Mary had not been taught to trust to mortals weak as herself for support in the hour of trial : She knew her aid must come from a higher source ; and in solitude she sought for consolation . 
`` This must be all for my good , '' sighed she , `` else it would not be . 
Mary knew not how many a fair picture of human felicity had shared the same fate as hers ! 
In writing to her maternal friend , Mary did not follow the mode usually adopted by young ladies of the heroic cast , viz . 
Mary knew , that to breathe a hint of her own unhappiness would be to embitter the peace of those she loved ; and she therefore strove to conceal from their observation the disappointment she had experienced . 
She could say nothing of her mother 's tenderness , or her sister 's affection ; but she dwelt upon the elegance of the one , and the beauty of the other . 
She could not boast of the warmth of her uncle 's reception , but she praised his good humour , and enlarged upon Lady Emily 's kindness and attention . 
`` I declare , '' said Miss Grizzy , as she ended her fifth perusal of the letter , `` Mary must be a happy creature , every body must allow ; indeed I never heard it disputed that Lady Juliana is a most elegant being ; and I daresay she is greatly improved since we saw her , for you know that is a long time ago . '' 
`` What a delightful creature our charming niece Adelaide must be , from Mary 's account , '' said Grizzy ; `` only I ca n't conceive how her eyes come to be black . 
`` And only think of her being so much taller than Mary , and twins ! 
I declare it 's wonderful -- I should have thought , indeed I never doubted , that they would have been exactly the same size -- And such a beautiful colour too , when we used to think Mary rather pale -- it 's very unaccountable ! '' 
`` I 'm sure that 's very true , '' rejoined Grizzy ; `` and we have great reason to thank our stars , that Mary is not a perfect dwarf ; which I really thought she would have been for long , till she took a shooting , -- summer was a year . '' 
`` But she 'll shoot no more , '' said Jacky , with a shake of the head that might have vied with Jove 's imperial nod ; `` England 's not the place for shooting . '' 
that Mary should be so happy , '' resumed Grizzy . 
`` I 'm sure I do n't know what she would have done , if Lord Courtland had been an illtempered harsh man , which , you know , he might just as easily have been ; and it would really have been very hard upon poor Mary -- and Lady Emily such a sweet creature too ! 
`` I do n't know , '' said Jacky ; `` Mary was petted enough before , I wish she may have a head to stand any more . '' 
`` She 'll be ten times nicer than ever , '' quoth Nicky . 
`` There is some reason , to be sure , that ca n't be denied , to be afraid of that ; at the same time , Mary has a great deal of sense of her own when she chooses ; and it 's a great matter for her , and indeed for all of us , that she is under the eye of such a sensible worthy man , as that Dr. Redgill . 
Of course , we may be sure , Lord Courtland will keep a most elegant table , and have a great variety of sweet things , which are certainly very tempting for young people ; but I have no doubt but Dr. Redgill will look after Mary , and see that she does n't eat too many of them . '' 
The younger set of aunts were astonished that Mary had said nothing about lovers and offers of marriage , as they had always considered going to England as synonimous with going to be married . 
To Mrs. Douglas ' more discerning eye , Mary 's happiness did not appear in so dazzling a light , as to the weaker optics of her aunts . 
`` It is not like my Mary , '' thought she , `` to rest so much on mere external advantages ; surely her warm affectionate heart can not be satisfied with the grace of a mother , and the beauty of a sister : these she might admire in a stranger ; but where we seek for happiness , we better prize more homely attributes . 
Yet Mary is so open and confiding , I think she could not have concealed from me , had she experienced a disappointment . '' 
Thus thwarted in her scheme , Lady Juliana 's dislike to her daughter rather increased than diminished : and it was well for Mary , that lessons of forbearance had been early infused into her mind ; for her spirit was naturally high , and would have revolted from the tyranny and injustice with which she was treated , had she not been taught the practical duties of Christianity , and that `` patience , with all its appendages , is the sum-total of all our duty that is proper to the day of sorrow . '' 
Not that Mary sought , by a blind compliance with all her mother 's follies and caprices , to ingratiate herself into her favour -- even the motive she would have deemed insufficient to have sanctified the deed . 
And the only arts she employed to win a place in her parent 's heart , were ready obedience , unvarying sweetness , and uncomplaining submission . 
Although Mary possessed none of the sour bigotry of a narrow mind , she was yet punctual in the discharge of her religious duties ; and the Sunday following her arrival , as they sat at breakfast , she inquired of her cousin , at what time the church-service began . 
`` I really am not certain -- I believe it is late , '' replied her cousin carelessly . 
`` I would certainly prefer going to church , '' said Mary . 
`` In such a day as this , '' said Mary , `` so dry and sunny , I am sure there can be no danger . '' 
`` I assure you , Lady Juliana will be excessively annoyed if you go , '' said Lady Emily , as Mary rose to leave the room . 
said Mary , in astonishment . 
asked Mary , as she stood irresolute whether to proceed . 
`` Your Ladyship is just come in time to settle a dispute here , '' said the Doctor , anxious to turn her attention from a hot muffin , which had just been brought in , and which he meditated appropriating to himself : `` I have said all I can -- -LRB- Was you looking at the toast , Lady Emily ? -RRB- 
Mary gently expressed her wish to be permitted to attend divine service . 
`` It is the only place I shall ask to go to , '' said Mary , timidly ; `` but I have always been accustomed to attend church , and -- '' `` That is a sufficient reason for my choosing that you should not attend it here . 
Mary , with fear and hesitation , made another attempt to overcome her mother 's prejudice ; but in vain . 
cried she , raising her voice . 
This was said in a tone and manner not to be disputed , and Mary felf her resolution give way before the displeasure of her mother . 
A contest of duties was new to her , and she could not all at once resolve upon fulfilling one duty at the expense of another . 
`` Besides , '' thought she , `` my mother thinks she is in the right . 
But another Sabbath came , and Mary found she had made no progress in obtaining the desired permission . 
She therefore began seriously to commune with her own heart , as to the course she ought to pursue . 
The commandment of `` Honour thy father and thy mother , '' had been deeply imprinted on her mind , and few possessed higher notions of filial reverence ; but there was another precept , which also came to her recollection . 
`` But I may honour and obey my parent without loving her more than my Saviour , '' argued she with herself , in hopes of lulling her conscience by this reflection . 
`` But again , '' thought she , `` the Scripture saith , ` He that keepeth my commandments , he it is that loveth me . '' 
Then she felt the necessity of owning , that if she obeyed the commands of her mother , when in opposition to the will of her God , she gave one of the Scripture proofs of either loving or fearing her parent upon earth more than her father which is in heaven . 
But Mary , eager to reconcile impossibilities , viz . 
the will of an ungodly parent with the holy commands of her Maker , thought now of another argument to calm her conscience . 
`` The Scripture , '' said she , `` says nothing positive about attending public worship ; and , as Lady Emily says , I may say my prayers just as well at home . '' 
But the passages of Scripture were too deeply imprinted on her mind to admit of this subterfuge . 
The result of Mary 's deliberations was , a firm determination to do what she deemed her duty , however painful . 
And she went in search of Lady Emily , hoping to prevail upon her to use her influence with Lady Juliana to grant the desired permission ; or should she fail in obtaining it , she trusted her resolution would continue strong enough to enable her to brave her mother 's displeasure in this act of conscientious disobedience . 
`` Indeed I do , '' answered Mary , earnestly . 
`` Pray , tell me , '' said Mary , with a smile , `` what are your ideas of a Methodist ? '' 
Again Mary became serious , as she renewed her entreaties to her cousin to intercede with Lady Juliana , that she might be allowed to attend any church . 
`` Then I fear I must go to church without it , '' said Mary , in a melancholy tone . 
Mary went to put on her pelisse ; and , descending to join her cousin in the drawing-room , she found her engaged in an argument with Dr. Redgill . 
But we shall leave Lady Juliana to pass over the duties of parents , and ponder upon those of children , while we follow Lady Emily and Mary in their airing . 
The road lay by the side of a river ; and though Mary 's taste had been formed upon the wild romantic scenery of the Highlands , she yet looked with pleasure on the tamer beauties of an English landscape . 
And , though accustomed to admire even `` rocks where the snow flake reposes ; '' she had also taste , though of a less enthusiastic kind , for the `` gay landscapes and gardens of roses , '' which , in this more genial clime , bloomed even under winter 's sway . 
The carriage drove smoothly along , and the sound of the church bell fell at intervals on the ear , `` in cadence sweet , now dying all away ; '' and , at the holy sound , Mary 's heart flew back to the peaceful vale and primitive kirk of Lochmarlie , where all her happy Sabbaths had been spent . 
But , to Mary 's eyes , the well dressed English rustic , trudging along the smooth path , was a far less picturesque object , than the bare-footed Highland girl , bounding over trackless heath-covered hills ; and the well preserved glossy blue coat , seemed a poor substitute for the varied drapery of the graceful plaid . 
They had now reached the church , and as Mary adhered to her resolution of attending divine worship , Lady Emily declared her intention of accompanying her , that she might come in for her share of Lady Juliana 's displeasure ; but , in spite of her levity , the reverend aspect , and meek , yet fervent piety of Dr. Burley , impressed her with better feelings ; and she joined in the service with outward decorum , if not with inward devotion . 
The music consisted of an organ , simply but well played ; and to Mary , unaccustomed to any sacred sounds , save those twanged through the nose of a Highland precentor , it seemed the music of the spheres . 
Far different sounds than those of peace and praise awaited her return . 
She rejected all attempts at re - conciliation ; raved about ingratitude and disobedience ; declared her determination of sending Mary back to her vulgar Scotch relations one moment -- the next protested she should never see those odious Methodists again -- then she was to take her to France , and shut her up in a convent , & c. till after uttering all the incoherencies usual with ladies in a passion , she at last succeeded in raving herself into a fit of hysterics . 
Poor Mary was deeply affected at this -LRB- to her -RRB- tremendous display of passion . 
She who had always been used to the mild placidity of Mrs. Douglas , and who had seen her face sometimes clouded with sorrow , but never deformed by anger -- what a spectacle ! 
In addition to her mother 's implacable wrath and unceasing animadversion , Mary found she was looked upon as a sort of alarming character by the whole family . 
Lord Courtland seemed afraid of being drawn into a religious controversy every time he addressed her . 
Dr. Redgill retreated at her approach , and eyed her askance , as much as to say , ``` Pon my honour , a young lady that can fly in her mother 's face about such a trifle as going to church , is not very safe company . '' 
Lady Emily , however , remained staunch to her ; and though she had her own private misgivings as to her cousin 's creed , she yet stoutly defended her from the charge of Methodism , and maintained that , in many respects , Mary was no better than her neighbours . 
`` Well Mary , '' cried she , as she entered her room one day with an air of exultation , `` here is an opportunity for you to redeem your character -- There , '' throwing down a card , `` is an invitation for you to a fancy ball . '' 
Mary 's heart bounded at the mention of a ball . 
She had never been at one , and it was pictured in her imagination in all the glowing colours with which youth and inexperience deck untried pleasures . 
exclaimed she , with sparkling eyes , `` how my aunts Becky and Bella , will love to hear an account of a ball -- And a fancy ball ! 
Lady Emily explained to her the nature of the entertainment , and Mary was in still greater raptures . 
`` It will be a perfect scene of enchantment , I have no doubt , '' continued her cousin , `` for Lady M. understands giving balls , which is what every one does not ; for there are dull balls as well as dull everythings else in the world . 
The mention of her mother recalled Mary 's thoughts from the festive scene to which they had already flown . 
`` But are you quite sure , '' said she , `` that I shall have my mother 's consent to go ? '' 
`` Quite the contrary , '' answered her cousin coolly : `` She wo n't hear of your going . 
Poor Mary 's countenance fell , as the bright vision of her imagination melted into air . 
`` Without my mother 's permission , '' said she , `` I shall certainly not think of , or even wish , '' with a sigh , `` to go to the ball ; and if she has already refused it , that is enough . '' 
`` It is only when I conceive a higher duty is required of me , '' answered Mary . 
`` My obedience and disobedience both proceed from the same source , '' answered Mary . 
`` To me it appears very different , '' said Mary ; `` and therefore I should be inexcusable , were I to choose the evil believing it to be such . '' 
`` Say what you will , '' cried her cousin pettishly , `` you never will convince me there can be any harm in disobeying such a mother as your 's -- so unreasonable -- so -- . '' 
`` The Bible makes no exceptions , '' interrupted Mary , gently ; `` it is not because of the reasonableness of our parents ' commands that we are required to obey them , but because it is the will of God . '' 
-- This was said with such an air of vexation , that Mary burst into a fit of laughter . 
`` And yet you are the oddest compound , '' continued her cousin , `` so gay and comical , and so little given to be shocked and scandalized at the wicked ways of others ; or to find fault and lecture ; or , in short , to do any of the insufferable things that your good people are so addicted to . 
`` Think of me as a creature with too many faults of her own , to presume to meddle with those of others , '' replied Mary , smiling at her cousin 's perplexity . 
`` You have only to choose for yourself , my dear cousin , '' answered Mary . 
`` I understand your meaning , '' answered Mary , laughing ; `` but , indeed , I have no such apprehensions . 
replied Mary . 
They were ever my abhorrence , as every species of canting and hypocrisy still is -- '' Then struck with a sense of her own violence and impetuosity , contrasted with her cousin 's meek unreproving manner , Lady Emily threw her arms around her , begging pardon , and assuring her she did not mean her . 
`` If you had , '' said Mary , returning her embrace , `` you would only have told me what I am in some respects . 
Dull and childish , I know I am ; for I am not the same creature I was at Lochmarlie '' -- and a tear trembled in her eye as she spoke -- `` and troublesome , I am sure , you have found me . '' 
Mary shook her head . 
`` I 'll tell you what we can do , '' cried her persevering patroness , `` We can go as masks , and Lady Juliana shall know nothing about it . 
`` That of Janus , I think , would be the most suitable for me , '' said Mary . 
Then , in a serious tone , she added , `` I can neither disobey nor deceive my mother . 
She quitted her cousin in great anger , and poor Mary felt as if she had lost her only friend . 
sighed she , `` how difficult it is to do right , when even the virtues of others throw obstacles in our way ! 
Lady Emily 's resentment , though violent , was short-lived ; and , in the certainty that either the mother would relent , or the daughter rebel , she ordered a dress for Mary ; but the night of the ball arrived , and both remained unshaken in their resolution . 
With a few words , Adelaide might have obtained the desired permission for her sister ; but she chose to remain neuter , coldly declaring she never interfered in quarrels . 
Mary beheld the splendid dresses and gay countenances of the party for the ball with feelings free from envy , though perhaps not wholly unmixed with regret . 
She gazed with the purest admiration on the extreme beauty of her sister , heightened as it was by the fantastic elegance of her dress , and contrasted with her own pale visage , and mourning habiliments . 
`` Indeed , '' thought she , as she turned from the mirror , with rather a mournful smile , `` my aunt Nicky was in the right : I certainly am a poor shilpit thing . '' 
As she looked again at her sister , she observed , that her ear-rings were not so handsome as those she had received from Mrs. Macshake ; and she instantly brought them , and requested Adelaide would wear them for that night . 
The hour of departure arrived ; Lord Courtland and Lady Juliana were at length ready , and Mary found herself left to a tête-à-tête with Dr. Redgill ; and , strange as it may seem , neither in a sullen nor melancholy mood . 
But after a single sigh , as the carriage drove off , she sat down with a cheerful countenance to play backgammon with the Doctor . 
The following day , she heard of nothing but the ball and its delights ; for both her mother and cousin sought -LRB- though from different motives -RRB- to heighten her regret at not having been there . 
But Mary listened to the details of all she had missed with perfect fortitude , and only rejoiced to hear they had all been so happy . 
Amongst the numerous letters and parcels with which Mary had been entrusted by the whole county of -- , there was one she had received from the hands of Lady Maclaughlan , with a strict injunction to be the bearer of it herself ; and , as even Lady Maclaughlan 's wishes now wore an almost sacred character in Mary 's estimation , she was very desirous of fulfilling this her parting charge . 
But , in the thraldom in which she was kept , she knew not how that was to be accomplished . 
She could not venture to wait upon the lady to whom it was addressed , without her mother 's permission ; and she was aware , that to ask was upon every occasion only to be refused . 
In this dilemma , she had recourse to Lady Emily ; and , shewing her the letter , craved her advice and assistance . 
`` Mrs. Lennox , Rose Hall , '' said her cousin , reading the superscription . 
Permission for Mary to accompany her was easily obtained ; for Lady Juliana considered a visit to Mrs. Lennox as an act of penance rather than of pleasure ; and Adelaide protested the very mention of her name gave her the vapours . 
There certainly was nothing that promised much gratification in what Mary had heard ; and yet she already felt interested in this unfortunate blind lady , whom every body thought it a bore to visit , and she sought to gain some more information respecting her . 
`` That would be but a pagan sacrifice , '' said Mary . 
`` I would hope , '' answered Mary , meekly . 
`` If I am to lay snares , '' answered Mary , laughing , `` it must be for nobler objects than hedge-row elms and hillocks green . '' 
Mary only answered by singing , `` My heart 's in the Highlands , my heart is not here , '' & c. as the carriage drew up . 
Such were the sensations with which Mary found herself in the presence of the venerable Mrs. Lennox -- venerable rather through affliction than age ; for sorrow , more than time , had dimmed the beauty of former days , though enough still remained to excite interest and engage affection , in the mournful , yet gentle expression of her countenance , and the speaking silence of her darkened eyes . 
On hearing the names of her visitors , she arose , and , guided by a little girl , who had been sitting at her feet , advanced to meet them , and welcomed them with a kindness and simplicity of manner , that reminded Mary of the home she had left , and the maternal tenderness of her beloved aunt . 
She delivered her credentials , which Mrs. Lennox received with visible surprise ; but laid the letter aside without any comments . 
Mrs. Lennox involuntarily turned her mild but sightless eyes towards Mary , then heaved a sigh , and shook her head , as she was reminded of her deprivation . 
Mary was too much affected to speak ; but the hand that was extended to her , she pressed with fervour to her lips , while her eyes overflowed with tears . 
Mrs. Lennox seemed to feel the tribute of pity and respect that flowed from Mary 's warm heart , and from that moment they felt towards each other that indefinite attraction , which however it may be ridiculed , certainly does sometimes influence our affections . 
Look at it , my dear , '' taking Mary 's hand , and leading her to the well known spot , while her features brightened with an expression which shewed maternal vanity was not yet extinct in the mourner 's heart . 
`` He was only eighteen , '' continued she , `` when that was done ; and many a hot sun has burned on that fair brow ; and many a fearful sight has met these sweet eyes since then ; and sadly that face may be changed ; but I shall never see it more ! '' 
Lady Emily and Mary were both silent from different causes . 
`` Oh do not suppose , '' said Mary , making an effort to conquer her feelings , `` that we are so heartless as to refuse to take a part in the afflictions of others -- surely none can be so selfish -- and might I be allowed to come often -- very often -- '' She stopped and blushed ; for she felt that her feelings were carrying her farther than she was warranted to go . 
Lady Emily turned away , and it was not till they had been some time in the carriage , that Mary was able to express the interest this visit had excited , and her anxious desire to be permitted to renew it . 
`` It is really an extraordinary kind of delight , Mary , that you take in being made miserable , '' said her cousin , wiping her eyes ; `` for my part , it makes me quite wretched to witness suffering that I ca n't relieve ; and how can you or I possibly do poor Mrs. Lennox any good ? 
Mary smiled , and shook her head . 
Mary declared , she could not define it ; and Lady Emily insisted she could not comprehend it . 
`` You will some day or other , '' said Mary ; `` for none , I believe , have ever passed through life without feeling , or at least requiring its support ; and it is well , perhaps , that we should know betimes , how to receive , as well as how to bestow it . '' 
By the bye , Mary , you have a tolerable compass yourself , when you choose ; though I do n't think you have science enough for a bravura : there I certainly have the advantage of you , as I flatter myself my mind is a full band in itself . 
`` How does it happen , '' said Mary , when her cousin 's transports had a little subsided , `` that you , who are in such ectacies at the idea of seeing your brother , have scarcely mentioned his name to me ? '' 
`` That is sympathy , '' said Mary . 
Lady Emily indeed wondered , and was provoked , and impatient ; but she was not alarmed ; and Mary amused herself with contrasting in her own mind the difference of her aunts ' feelings in similar circumstances . 
And the result of Mary 's comparison was , that her aunts ' feelings , however troublesome , were better than no feelings at all . '' 
`` They are , to be sure , something like brambles , '' thought she ; `` they fasten upon one in every possible way , but still they are better than the faded exotics of fashionable life . '' 
Lord Courtland was roused to something like animation , as he cordially shook hands with his son ; Lady Juliana flew into raptures at the beauty of his Italian greyhound ; Adelaide , at the first glance , decided , that her cousin was worthy of falling in love with her ; Mary thought on the happiness of the family re-union ; and Dr. Redgill offered up a silent thanksgiving , that this fracas had not happened ten minutes sooner , otherwise the woodcocks would have been as cold as death . 
`` That 's just of a piece with his liking to eat boiled mutton , '' muttered the Doctor to Mary ; `` and yet to look at him , one would really not expect such gross stupidity . '' 
`` Come then , Mary , do you be the one to ` untwist the chains that tie the hidden soul of harmony . ' 
Mary would rather have declined , but she saw a refusal would displease her cousin ; and she was not accustomed to consult her own inclination in such frivolous matters : She therefore seated herself at the harp , and sung the following verses : -- Ere the song was ended , Lord Lindore had sauntered away to the billiard-room , singing , `` Oh ! 
At supper , it was still worse : He placed himself by Mary , and when he spoke , it was only of Scotland . 
`` And you , Mary , are your remarks to be equally judicious and polite ? '' 
Mary , in all the sincerity of her heart , said , she thought him by much the handsomest and most elegant-looking man she had ever seen . 
And there she stopped . 
But -- however , no matter -- I only wish he may have sense enough to fall in love with you , Mary . 
`` Then you may feel equally secure upon my account , '' said Mary , `` as I assure you I am in still less danger of losing mine , after the warning you have given . '' 
This off-hand sketch of her brother 's character , which Lady Emily had thoughtlessly given , produced the most opposite effects on the minds of the sisters . 
In Mary 's well regulated mind other feelings arose . 
Although she was not one of the outrageously virtuous , who storm and rail at the very mention of vice , and deem it contamination to hold any intercourse with the vicious , she yet possessed proper ideas of the distinction to be drawn ; and the hope of finding a friend and brother in her cousin , now gave way to the feeling , that in future she could only consider him as a mere common acquaintance . 
In honour of her brother 's return , Lady Emily resolved to celebrate it with a ball ; and always prompt in following up her plans , she fell to work immediately with her visiting list . 
asked Mary . 
Now what I have to warn you against , Mary , is the sin of ever listening to any of her advices . 
She will preach to you about the pinning of your gown , and the curling of your hair , till you would think it impossible not to do exactly what she wants you to do . 
She will inquire with the greatest solicitude what shoemaker you employ , and will shake her head most significantly when she hears it is any other than her own . 
But if ever I detect you paying the smallest attention to any of her recommendations , positively I shall have done with you . '' 
Mary laughingly promised to turn a deaf ear to all Mrs. Wiseacre 's wisdom ; and her cousin proceeded : `` Then here follows a swarm ` as thick as idle motes in sunny ray , ' and much of the same importance , methinks , in the scale of being . 
To keep him in good company , and get him well-married , is all her aim ; and this , she thinks , will not be difficult , as he is very handsome -- possesses an estate of ten thousand a-year -- and succeeds to some Scotch Lord Something 's title -- There 's for you , Mary ! 
She once had views of Adelaide , but Adelaide met the advances with so much scorn , that Mrs. Downe Wright declared she was thankful she had shewn the cloven foot in time ; for that she never would have done for a wife to her William . 
You have not spied them yet , it seems , '' said Mary , with a smile . 
`` That must be a still more painful faculty of vision than even the second sight , '' said Mary ; `` but I should think it depended very much upon yourself to counteract it . '' 
`` If people will be irritable , '' said Mary , laughing , `` why must others sacrifice their feelings to gratify them ? '' 
`` It admits of palliation , at least , '' answered Mary . 
`` There certainly must be some fascination about you , otherwise I should never have sat so long listening to you , '' said Mary , as she rose from the table at which she had been assisting to dash off the athomes . 
`` But you must listen to me a little longer , '' cried her cousin , seizing her hand to detain her : `` I have not got half through my detestables yet ; but , to humour you , I shall let them go for the present . 
To sum up the whole , she could listen with patience to Lady Placid ; she could bear to be advised by Mrs. Wiseacre ; she could stand the scrutiny of Mrs. Downe Wright ; and , hardest task of all , -LRB- throwing her arms around Mary 's neck , -RRB- she can bear with all my ill-humour and impertinence . '' 
The arrival of Lord Lindore brought an influx of visitors to Beech Park ; and , in the unceasing round of amusement that went on , Mary found herself completely overlooked . 
She therefore gladly took advantage of her insignificance to pay frequent visits to Mrs. Lennox , and easily prevailed with Lady Juliana to allow her to spend a week there occasionally . 
The day seemed doubly dark to Mrs. Lennox that was not brightened by Mary 's presence ; and Mary felt all the drooping energies of her heart revive in the delight of administering to the happiness of another . 
-- Mary read as follows : From such communings as these the selfish would have turned with indifference ; but Mary 's generous heart was ever open to the overflowings of the wounded spirit . 
She had never been accustomed to lavish the best feelings of her nature on frivolous pursuits , or fictitious distresses ; but had early been taught to consecrate them to the best , the most ennobling purposes of humanity -- even to the comforting of the weary soul -- the binding of the bruised heart . 
Yet Mary was no rigid moralist . 
She loved amusement as the amusement of an imperfect existence , though her good sense , and still better principles , taught her to reject it as the business of an immortal being . 
Several weeks passed away , during which Mary had been an almost constant inmate at Rose Hall ; but the day of Lady Emily 's fête arrived , and with something of hope and expectation fluttering at her heart , she anticipated her début in the ball-room . 
Mary flew towards her ; and as her light step and soft accents met her ear , she extended her arms towards her . 
`` Mary , my child , where are you , '' exclaimed she , as she pressed her with convulsive eagerness to her heart -- `` My son ! 
And she wept in all the agony of contending emotions , suddenly and powerfully excited . 
`` But you will hear him -- you will hold him to your heart -- you will be conscious that he is beside you , '' said Mary . 
`` Indeed it will be a sad return , '' said the old housekeeper , as she wiped her eyes ; `` for the Colonel doated on his sister , and she on him , and his brothers too ! 
Mary motioned the good woman to be silent ; then turning to Mrs. Lennox , she sought to soothe her into composure , and turned , as she always did , the bright side of the picture to view , by dwelling on the joy her son would experience in seeing her . 
`` But he will also find you resigned -- even contented , '' said Mary , while her tears dropped on the hand she held to her lips . 
And the wounds of her heart seemed to bleed afresh at the excitement of even its happiest emotions -- the return of a long absent , much-loved son . 
Mary exerted all the powers of her understanding , all the tenderness of her heart , to dispel the mournful images that pressed on the mind of her friend ; but she found it was not so much her arguments as her presence that produced that effect ; and to leave her in her present situation seemed impossible . 
In the agitation of her spirits , she had wholly forgotten the occasion that called for Mary 's absence , and she implored her to remain with her till the arrival of her son , with an earnestness that was irresistible . 
The thoughts of her cousin 's displeasure , should she absent herself upon such an occasion , caused Mary to hesitate ; yet her feelings would not allow her to name the cause . 
`` How unfeeling it would sound to talk of balls at such a time , '' thought she ; `` what a painful contrast must it present : surely Lady Emily will not blame me , and no one will miss me -- '' And , in the ardour of her feelings , she promised to remain . 
Yet she sighed as she sent off her excuse , and thought of the pleasures she had renounced ; but the sacrifice made , the regrets were soon past ; and she devoted herself entirely to soothing the agitated spirits of her venerable friend . 
Mary was certainly no logician , and all that she could say might have been said by another ; but there is something in the voice and manner that carries an irresistible influence along with it -- something that tells us our sorrows are felt and understood , not coldly seen and heard . 
Mary 's well-directed exertions were repaid with success ; she read , talked , played , and sung , not in her gayest manner ; but in that subdued strain which harmonized with the feelings , while it won upon the attention , and she had at length the satisfaction of seeing the object of her solicitude , restored to her usual state of calm confiding acquiescence . 
`` God bless you , my dear Mary ! '' 
said she , as they were about to separate for the night ; `` He only can repay you for the good you have done me this day ! '' 
thought Mary , as she tenderly embraced her , `` such a blessing is worth a dozen balls ! '' 
He raised his eyes , as in agony , to heaven -- then threw himself on his mother 's bosom ; and as Mary hurried from the apartment , she heard the sob which burst from his manly heart , as he exclaimed , `` My dear mother , do I indeed find you thus ! '' 
When Mary met Colonel Lennox in the breakfast room the following morning , he accosted her , not with the ceremony of a stranger , but with the frankness of a heart careless of common forms ; and spoke of his mother with indications of sensibility , which he vainly strove to repress . 
Mary knew that she had sought to conceal her real situation from him ; but it seemed a vague suspicion of the truth had crossed his mind , and having , with difficulty , obtained a short leave of absence , he had hastened to have either his hopes or fears realized . 
thought Mary , `` were they to behold that face now , how changed would it appear ! '' 
as she contrasted it with the portrait that hung immediately over the head of the original . 
At least so thought Mary ; but her comparisons were interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Lennox . 
Mary , my love , where are you ? 
Mary , blushing deeply , hastily withdrew it . 
She felt it as a sort of appeal to Colonel Lennox 's feelings ; and a sense of wounded delicacy made her shrink from being thus recommended to his gratitude . 
But Colonel Lennox seemed too much absorbed in his own painful reflections to attach such a meaning to his mother 's words ; and though they excited him to regard Mary for a moment with peculiar interest , yet , in a little while , he relapsed into the mournful reverie from which he had been roused . 
Breakfast ended , Mary rose to prepare for her departure , in spite of the solicitations of her friend , that she should remain till the following day . 
`` Surely , my dear Mary , '' said she , in an imploring accent , `` you will not refuse to bestow one day of happiness upon me ? 
-- And she clung to her with that pathetic look which Mary had ever found irresistible . 
But , upon this occasion , she steeled her heart against all supplication . 
It was the first time she had ever turned from the entreaty of old age or infirmity ; and those only who have lived in the habitual practice of administering to the happiness of others , can conceive how much it costs the generous heart to resist even the weaknesses of those it loves . 
But Mary felt she had already sacrificed too much to affection , and she feared the reproaches and ridicule that awaited her return to Beech Park . 
She therefore gently , though steadily , adhered to her resolution , only softening it by a promise of returning soon . 
exclaimed Mrs. Lennox to her son , as Mary left the room to prepare for her departure . 
Charles , could I but hope to see her yours ! '' 
`` But is she not a lovely creature ? '' 
She had long cherished the hope , that if ever her son came home , it would be to fall in love with and marry her beloved Mary ; and she had dwelt upon this favourite scheme till it had taken entire possession of her mind . 
It was with no slight mortification that Mrs. Lennox saw Mary depart without having made the desired impression on the heart of her son ; or , what was still more to be feared , of his having secured himself a place in her favour . 
But , again and again , she made Mary repeat her promise of returning soon , and spending some days with her . 
`` And then , '' thought she , `` things will all come right . 
Mary 's inexperienced mind expected to find , on her return to Beech Park , some vestige of the pleasures of the preceding night -- some shadows , at least , of gaiety , to shew what happiness she had sacrificed -- what delight her friends had enjoyed ; but , for the first time , she beheld the hideous aspect of departed pleasure . 
Drooping evergreens , dying lamps , dim transparencies , and faded flowers , met her view as she crossed the hall ; while the public rooms were covered with dust from the chalked floors , and wax from the droppings of the candles . 
Nothing was in its place -- nothing looked as it used to do -- and she stood amazed at the disagreeable metamorphose all things had undergone . 
Hearing some one approach , she turned , and beheld Dr. Redgill enter . 
exclaimed he , in a tone of chagrin . 
-- You are come to a pretty scene , '' continued he , looking round with a mixture of fury and contempt , -- `` a very pretty scene ! 
said Mary , `` it is not fair in us to stand here analysing the dregs of gaiety after the essence is gone . 
I thought my eyes would have been put out , the short time I staid ; indeed , I do n't think this one has recovered it yet , '' advancing a fierce blood-shot eye almost close to Mary 's . 
Mary gave it as her opinion that it did . 
The Doctor 's agitation was so great , that Mary really pitied him . 
`` It is rather hard that you can not get any breakfast , since you had no enjoyment in the ball , '' said she . 
She knows that -- and she knows that I like it to a moment -- and yet -- '' Here the Doctor blew his nose , and Mary thought she perceived a tear twinkle in his eye . 
Finding she was incapable of administering consolation , she was about to quit the room , when the Doctor , recovering himself , called after her . 
Mary took advantage of the deep sigh that followed to make her escape ; and as she crossed the vestibule , she descried the Doctor 's man , hurrying along with a coffee pot , which she had no doubt would pour consolation into his master 's soul . 
As Mary was aware of her mother 's dislike to introduce her into company , she flattered herself she had for once done something to merit her approbation , by having absented herself on this occasion . 
But Mary was a novice in the ways of temper , and had yet to learn , that to study to please , and to succeed , are very different things . 
She was , therefore , as her maid expressed it , in a most particular bad temper ; and Mary had to endure reproaches , of which she could only make out , that although she ought not to have been present , she was much to blame in having been absent . 
''' Mary would have felt rather uneasy at this intelligence , had she believed it possible for her sister to be in love ; but she had ever appeared to her so insensible to every tender emotion and generous affection , that she could not suppose even love itself was capable of making any impression on her heart . 
When , however , she saw them together , she began to waver in her opinion . 
Adelaide , silent and disdainful to others , was now gay and enchanting to Lord Lindore , and looked as if she triumphed in the victory she had already won . 
`` Pray put on your Lennox face this morning , Mary , '' said Lady Emily one day to her cousin , `` for I want you to go and pay a funeral visit with me to a distant relation , but unhappily a near neighbour of ours , who has lately lost her husband . 
Mary readily assented ; and when they were seated in the carriage , her cousin began -- `` Since I am going to put you in the way of a trap , I think it but fair to warn you of it . 
When , somewhat `` in the sear and yellow leaf , '' she married Mr. Sufton , a silly old man , who had been dead to the world for many years . 
But after having had him buried alive in his own chamber till his existence was forgot , she had him disinterred for the purpose of giving him a splendid burial in good earnest . 
That done , her duty is now to mourn , or appear to mourn , for the approbation of the world . 
Aware of her cousin 's satirical turn , Mary was not disposed to yield conviction to her representation , but entered Lady Matilda 's drawing-room with a mind sufficiently unbiassed to allow her to form her own judgment ; but a very slight survey satisfied her that the picture was not overcharged . 
replied Lady Emily , in a tone so significant as made Mary start . 
The Duke and the General handed Lady Emily and Mary to their carriage . 
Mary sprung into the carriage as quick as possible to be saved the embarrassment of a reply ; and it was not till they were fairly out of sight , that she ventured to raise her eyes to her cousin 's face . 
There the expression of ill humour and disgust was so strongly depicted , that she could no longer repress her risible emotions , but gave way to a violent fit of laughter . 
exclaimed her companion , `` is this the only effect ` Matilda 's moan ' has produced upon you ? 
`` My appetite , you ought rather to say , '' replied Mary ; `` taste implies some discrimination which you seem to deny me . '' 
`` The delicacy of your comparison is highly flattering , '' said Mary ; `` but I must be duller than the fat weed , were I to give my sympathy to such as Lady Matilda Surface . '' 
`` Duchess of Altamont , to be sure , '' said Mary : `` and then such a man ! 
`` Allow me to introduce to you , ladies , that most high and puissant Princess , her Grace the Duchess of Altamont , Marchioness of Norwood , Countess of Penrose , Baroness of , & c. & c. '' cried Lady Emily , as she threw open the drawing-room door , and ushered Mary into the presence of her mother and sister , with all the demonstrations of ceremony and respect . 
Mary was disliked by her mother , and despised by her sister ; and any attempt to bring her forward , or raise her to a level with themselves , never failed to excite the indignation of both . 
The consequences were always felt by her , in the increased ill-humour and disdainful indifference with which she was treated ; and , on the present occasion , her injudicious friend was only brewing phials of wrath for her . 
But Lady Emily never looked to future consequences -- present effect was all she cared for ; and she went on to relate seriously , as she called it , but in the most exaggerated terms , the admiration which the Duke had expressed for Mary , and her own firm belief that she might be Duchess when she chose ; `` that is , after the expiry of his mourning for the late Duchess . 
He was a very handsome young man , gentle , and rather pleasing in his manners ; and Mary , to whom his intentions were not so palpable , thought him by no means deserving of the contempt her cousin had expressed for him . 
cried Lady Emily , after they were gone , `` the plot begins to thicken -- lovers begin to pour in , but all for Mary -- how mortifying to you and me , Adelaide ! 
Mary felt the increasing ill humour which this subject drew upon her , without being able to penetrate the cause of it ; but she saw that it was displeasing to her mother and sister , and that was sufficient to make her wish to put a stop to it . 
She , therefore , earnestly entreated Lady Emily to end the joke . 
`` Unquestionably , '' said Mary . 
`` And can you really imagine , '' said Mary , `` that for the sake of shaking off a parent 's authority , I would impose upon myself chains still heavier , and even more binding ? 
`` I never learnt the creed of any school , '' said Mary , `` nor ever heard any one 's sentiments on the subject , except my dear Mrs. Douglas . '' 
`` She told me , '' said Mary , `` that there was a love which even the wisest and most virtuous need not blush to entertain -- the love of a virtuous object , founded upon esteem , and heightened by similarity of tastes , and sympathy of feelings , into a pure and devoted attachment : unless I feel all this , I shall never fancy myself in love . '' 
`` Suppose I did , '' said Mary , with a smile , `` the next point is to honour ; and surely he is as unlikely to excite that sentiment as the other . 
`` I have never thought much upon the subject , '' said Mary ; `` my sentiments are therefore all at second hand , but I shall repeat to you what I think is not love , and what is . '' 
-- And she repeated these pretty and well known lines : -- `` And such as I do feel , and will always feel , for my Edward , '' said Lady Emily -- `` But there is the dressing bell ! '' 
An unusual length of time had elapsed since Mary had heard from Glenfern , and she was beginning to feel some anxiety on account of her friends there , when her apprehensions were dispelled by the arrival of a large packet , containing letters from Mrs. Douglas and aunt Jacky . 
It is fortunate for you , my dear Mary , that you have friends who are always ready to point out your errors to you . 
It does not look as if you bestowed that pains upon it which you undoubtedly ought to do ; for without pains , I can assure you , Mary , you will never do any thing well . 
I know there are many young people who are very apt to think it beneath them to take pains ; but I sincerely trust , my dear Mary , you have more sense than to be so very foolish . 
Indeed , had it not been for Patty M'Pry , we never would have heard a syllable of the celebrated Lady Travers ' elopement with Sir John Conquest ; and , indeed , I can not conceal from you , that we have heard more as to what goes on in Lord Courtland 's family , through Miss Patty M'Pry , than ever we have heard from you , Mary . 
And now , my dear Mary , having said all that I trust is necessary to recal you to a sense of your duty , I shall now communicate to you a piece of intelligence , which , I am certain , will occasion you the most unfeigned pleasure , viz . 
And I am , my dear Mary , your most affectionate aunt , Joan Douglas . '' 
`` J. D. '' Mary could not entirely repress her mirth while she read this catalogue of her crimes ; but she was , at the same time , eager to expiate her offences , real or imaginary , in the sight of her good old aunt ; and she immediately sat down to the construction of a letter after the model prescribed ; -- though with little expectation of being able to cope with the intelligent Miss P. M ` P. in the extent of her communications . 
Her heart warmed at the thoughts of seeing again the dear familiar face of aunt Grizzy , and of hearing the tones of that voice , which , though sharp and cracked , still sounded sweet in memory 's ear . 
Mary 's thoughts had often reverted to Rose Hall since the day she had last quitted it , and she longed to fulfil her promise to her venerable friend ; but a feeling of delicacy , unknown to herself , withheld her . 
`` She will not miss me while she has her son with her , '' said she to herself ; but , in reality , she dreaded her cousin 's raillery should she continue to visit there as frequently as before . 
asked Mary . 
Mary could not deny the fact ; but , sick of idle altercation , she resolved to say nothing , but walk over to Rose Hall the following morning . 
And this she did , leaving a note for her cousin , apologizing for her flight . 
She was received with rapture by Mrs. Lennox . 
my dear Mary , '' said she , as she tenderly embraced her , `` you know not , you can not , conceive , what a blank your absence makes in my life ! 
`` I should not have staid so long from you , '' said Mary , `` but I knew you had Colonel Lennox with you , and I could not flatter myself you would have even a thought to bestow upon me . '' 
`` Indeed , '' said Mary , `` I can not doubt it . 
It is always a happiness to be with those we love , and whom we know love us , under any circumstances ; and it is for that reason I love so much to come to my dear Mrs. Lennox , '' caressing her as she spoke . 
`` Dearest Mary , who would not love you ? 
could I but see -- could I but hope -- '' `` You must hope every thing you desire , '' said Mary , gaily , and little guessing the nature of her good friend 's hopes ; `` I do nothing but hope . '' 
And she tried to check a sigh , as she thought how some of her best hopes had been already blighted by the unkindness of those whose love she had vainly strove to win . 
He welcomed Mary with an appearance of the greatest pleasure , and looked so much happier and more animated than when she last saw him , that she was struck with the change , and began to think he might almost stand a comparison with his picture . 
As Colonel Lennox 's character unfolded itself , Mary saw much to admire in it ; and it is more than probable the admiration would soon have been reciprocal , had it been allowed to take its course . 
Mary would have been deeply mortified had she suspected the cause of her friend 's solicitude to shew her off ; but she was a stranger to match-making in all its bearings -- had scarcely ever read a novel in her life , and was , consequently , not at all aware of the necessity there was for her falling in love with all convenient speed . 
She was , therefore , sometimes amused , though oftener ashamed , at Mrs. Lennox 's panegyrics , and could not but smile as she thought how aunt Jacky 's wrath would have been kindled , had she heard the extravagant praises that were bestowed on her most trifling accomplishments . 
Pray do : you did not use to require any entreaty from me , Mary ! 
Mary finding , whatever she did or did not , she was destined to hear only her own praises , was glad to take refuge at the harp , to which she sung the following ancient ditty : -- `` That , '' said Colonel Lennox , `` is one of the many exquisite little pieces of poetry which are to be found , like jewels in an Ethiop 's ear , in my favourite Isaac Walton . 
I say , as I thus sat joying in my own happy condition , and pitying this poor rich man , that owned this and many other pleasant groves and meadows about me , I did then thankfully remember what my Saviour said , that the meek possess the earth -- or , rather , they enjoy what the others possess and enjoy not ; for anglers and meek-spirited men are free from those high , those restless thoughts , which corrode the sweets of life ; and they , and they only , can say , as the poet has happily expressed it -- `` There is both poetry and painting in such prose as this , '' said Mary ; `` but I should certainly as soon have thought of looking for a pearl necklace in a fish pond , as of finding pretty poetry in a treatise upon the art of angling . '' 
Mary succeeded in soothing her weak and agitated spirits into composure ; but the chord of feeling had been jarred , and all her efforts to restore it to its former tone , proved abortive for the rest of the day . 
There was something so refreshing in the domestic peacefulness of Rose Hall , when contrasted with the heartless bustle of Beech Park , that Mary felt too happy in the change to be in any hurry to quit it . 
But an unfortunate discovery soon turned all her enjoyment into bitterness of heart ; and Rose Hall , from being to her a place of rest , was suddenly transformed into an abode too hateful to be endured . 
It happened , one day as she entered the drawing-room , Mrs. Lennox was , as usual , assailing the heart of her son in her behalf . 
A large Indian screen divided the room , and Mary 's entrance was neither seen nor heard till she was close by them . 
This was said when Mary was actually standing before her . 
To hear the words , and to feel their application , was a flash of lightning ; and , for a moment , she felt as if her brain were on fire . 
She was alive but to one idea , and that the most painful that could be suggested to a delicate mind . 
She had heard herself recommended to the love of a man who was indifferent to her . 
But her words fell unheeded on Mary 's ear -- she could hear nothing but what she had already heard . 
Hours passed away unheeded by Mary , while she was giving way to the wounded sensibility of a naturally high spirit and acute feelings , thus violently excited in all their first ardour . 
At length , she was recalled to herself , by hearing the sound of a carriage , as it passed under her window ; and , immediately after , she received a message to repair to the drawing-room to her cousin , Lady Emily . 
thought she ; `` I shall now get away -- no matter how or where , I shall go never again to return . '' 
And , unconscious of the agitation visible in her countenance , she hastily descended , impatient to bid an eternal adieu to her once loved Rose Hall . 
She found Lady Emily and Colonel Lennox together . 
Eyes less penetrating than her cousin 's , would easily have discovered the state of poor Mary 's mind , as she entered the room ; her beating heart -- her flushed cheek and averted eye , all declared the perturbation of her spirits ; and Lady Emily regarded her , for a moment , with an expression of surprise that served to heighten her confusion . 
-- to carry you home , Mary , by command of Lady Juliana . '' 
exclaimed Mary eagerly ; `` you are quite welcome . 
-- Then , recollecting herself , she blushed still deeper at her own precipitation . 
`` There is no occasion to be so vehemently obedient , '' said her cousin ; `` I am not quite ready , neither am I wishing , or waiting to be off in such a hurry . 
I would sing it myself if I could ; but I think every English woman , who pretends to sing Scotch songs , ought to have the bow-string ; '' then turning to the harpsichord , she began to play it with exquisite taste and feeling . 
`` There , '' said she , rising with equal levity ; `` is not that worth all the formal bows -- and ` recollects to have had the pleasure ' -- and ` long time since I had the honour ' -- and such sort of hateful reminiscences , that make one feel nothing , but that they are a great deal older , and uglier , stupider , and more formal than they were so many years before . '' 
`` Not to-day , surely , '' cried Mrs. Lennox in alarm ; `` to-morrow -- '' `` My orders are peremptory -- the suit is pressing , '' with a significant smile to Mary ; `` this day -- oh , ye hours ! '' 
looking at a time piece , `` this very minute , come Mary -- are you ready -- cap-a-pee ? '' 
At another time Mary would have thought only of the regrets of her venerable friend at parting with her ; but now she felt only her own impatience to be gone , and she hastily quitted the room to prepare for her departure . 
Mary pretended to be very busy collecting her work , drawings , & c. which lay scattered about , and merely bent her head in acknowledgment . 
Had Mary raised her eyes to those that vainly sought to meet her 's , she would there have read all , and more than had been expressed ; but she could only think , `` he has been entreated to love ! '' 
and at that humiliating idea , she bent her head still lower to hide the colour that dyed her cheek to an almost painful degree , while a sense of suffocation at her throat prevented her disclaiming , as she wished to do , the merit of any sacrifice . 
Some sketches of Lochmarlie lay upon a table , at which she had been drawing the day before ; they had ever been precious in her sight till now ; but they only excited feelings of mortification , as she recollected having taken them from her porte feuille , at Mrs. Lennox 's request to shew to her son . 
But oh , Mary ! 
Mary , too much affected to reply , could only wring the hand of her venerable friend , as she tore herself from her embrace , and followed Lady Emily to the carriage . 
Mary dreaded to encounter her cousin 's eyes , which she was aware were fixed upon her with more than their usual scrutiny . 
She therefore kept her 's steadily employed in surveying the well-known objects the road presented . 
At length her Ladyship began in a grave tone . 
`` Very much so , '' replied Mary , without knowing very well what she said . 
Mary now did look up in some surprise ; but she hastily withdrew from the intolerable expression of her cousin 's eyes . 
cried she , in a deprecating tone . 
Mary would fain have concealed the cause of her distress from every human being , as she felt as if degraded still lower by repeating it to another ; and she remained silent , struggling with her emotions . 
``` Pon my honour , Mary , you really do use great liberties with my patience and good nature . 
Thus urged , Mary at length , and with much hesitation , related to her cousin the humiliation she had experienced . 
`` And after all , '' said she , as she ended , `` I am afraid I behaved very like a fool -- and yet what could I do ? 
`` You quite misunderstand me , '' said Mary , with increasing vexation . 
Lady Emily little thought how near she was to the truth when she talked in this random way . 
Colonel Lennox saw the wound he had innocently inflicted on Mary 's feelings , and a warmer sentiment than any he had hitherto experienced had sprung up in his heart . 
exclaimed Mary , in astonishment . 
Poor Mary was , indeed , shocked at her cousin 's intelligence . 
With the highest feelings of filial reverence , she found herself perpetually called upon , either to sacrifice her own principles , or to act in direct opposition to her mother 's will ; and , upon this occasion , she saw nothing but endless altercation awaiting her : for her heart revolted from the indelicacy of such measures , and she could not for a moment brook the idea of being bestowed in marriage . 
But she had little time for reflection . 
They were now at Beech Park ; and , as she alighted , a servant informed her , Lady Juliana wished to see her in her dressing room immediately . 
Mary was silent ; and her mother , delighted at her own good sense , and judicious observations , went on -- `` That being the case , you may judge how very comfortable I must feel at having managed to procure for you a most excessive good establishment -- just the very thing I have long wished , as I have felt quite at a loss about you of late , my dear . 
For a few minutes , Mary was too much confounded by her mother 's rapidity to reply . 
She had expected to be urged to accept of Mr. Downe Wright ; but to be told that was actually done for her was more than she was prepared for . 
At length she found voice to say , that Mr. Downe Wright was almost a stranger to her , and she must therefore be excused from receiving his addresses at present . 
`` But I have not the slightest partiality for him , '' said Mary , colouring . 
Mary saw she must speak boldly . 
`` I shall never marry any body , I am sure , that you disapprove of , '' said Mary , timidly . 
Lady Juliana was one of those who always expect to carry their point by a raised voice and sparkling eyes ; and it was with difficulty Mary , with her timid air , and gentle accents , could convince her that she was determined to judge for herself in a matter in which her happiness was so deeply involved . 
When at last brought to comprehend it , her Ladyship 's indignation knew no bounds ; and Mary was accused in the same breath with having formed some low connection in Scotland , and of seeking to supplant her sister , by aspiring to the Duke of Altamont . 
When Mary entered the drawing-room , she found herself , without knowing how , by the side of Mr. Downe Wright . 
There was something so gentle and unassuming in his manner , that , almost provoked as she was by the folly of his proceedings , she found it impossible to resent it by her behaviour towards him ; and , indeed , without being guilty of actual rudeness , of which she was incapable , it would not have been easy to have made him comprehend the nature of her sentiments . 
He appeared perfectly satisfied with the toleration he met with ; and , compared to Adelaide 's disdainful glances , and Lady Emily 's biting sarcasms , Mary 's gentleness and civility might well be mistaken for encouragement . 
But even under the exhilarating influence of hope and high spirits , his conversation was so insipid and common-place , that Mary found it a relief to turn even to Dr. Redgill . 
It was evident the Doctor was aware of what was going on , for he regarded her with that increased respect due to the future mistress of a splendid establishment . 
Lady Juliana , who would have been highly incensed , had she suspected the application of the words , was so unconscious of it , as to join occasionally in singing them , to Mary 's great confusion , and Adelaide 's manifest displeasure . 
Adelaide , '' exclaimed her cousin , in an affected manner , `` what are you made of ? 
pretending to examine her all over . 
And she quitted the room , followed by Lady Juliana , who could only make out that Lady Emily had been insolent , and that Adelaide was offended . 
`` I see you think I am in the wrong , Mary ; I can read that in the little reproachful glance you gave me just now . 
asked Mary , in some surprise . 
Mary tried to defend her sister , in the first place ; but though her charity would not allow her to censure , her conscience whispered there was much to condemn ; and she was relieved from what she felt a difficult task , when the gentlemen began to drop in . 
In spite of all her manoeuvres , Mr. Downe Wright contrived to be next her , and whenever she changed her seat , she was sure of his following her . 
She had also the mortification of overhearing Lady Juliana tell the Duke , that Mr. Downe Wright was the accepted lover of her youngest daughter -- that he was a man of large fortune -- and heir to his uncle , Lord Glenallan ! 
The following day Mary was compelled to receive Mrs. Downe Wright 's visit ; but she was scarcely conscious of what passed , for Colonel Lennox arrived at the same time ; and it was equally evident that his visit was also intended for her . 
`` Come , Mary , '' cried Lady Emily , as if in answer to something Colonel Lennox had addressed to her in a low voice , `` do you remember the promise I made Colonel Lennox , and which it rests with you to perform ? '' 
`` I never consider myself bound to perform the promises of others , '' replied Mary , gravely . 
It rests with you , Mary , to be the founder of our friendship ; and if you manage the matter well , that is , sing in your best manner , we shall perhaps make it a triple alliance , and admit you as third . '' 
`` As every man is said to be the artificer of his own fortune , so every one , I think , had best be the artificer of their own friendship , '' said Mary , trying to smile , as she pulled her embroidery frame towards her , and began to work . 
And with a general obeisance to the company , and a significant pressure of the hand to Mary , she withdrew her son from his dilemma . 
Although a shrewd , penetrating woman , she did not possess that tact and delicacy necessary to comprehend the finer feelings of a mind superior to her own ; and in Mary 's averted looks and constrained manner , she saw nothing but what she thought quite proper and natural in her situation . 
`` As for Lady Emily , '' she observed , `` there would be news of her and that fine dashing looking Colonel yet , and Miss Adelaide would , perhaps , come down a pin before long . '' 
`` How prodigiously handsome Colonel Lennox looked to-day , '' said she , addressing Mary ; `` and how perfectly unconscious , at least indifferent , he seems about it . 
After a few more awkward , indefinite sort of visits , in which Mary found it impossible to come to an explanation , she was relieved , for the present , from the assiduities of her lover . 
Mary was now aware of the folly of talking reason to her mother , and remained silent ; thankful for the present peace this event would ensure her , and almost tempted to wish that Lord Glenallan 's doom might not speedily be decided . 
But to Mary , who was more alive to the difference of their characters and sentiments than any other member of the family , this appeared very improbable , and she could not help suspecting , that love for the sister , rather than friendship for the brother , was the real motive by which he was actuated . 
In a half jesting manner she mentioned her suspicions to Lady Emily , who treated the idea with her usual ridicule . 
`` I really could not have supposed you so extremely missy-ish , Mary , '' said she , `` as to imagine , that because two people like each other 's society , and talk , and laugh together a little more than usual , that they must needs be in love ! 
Mary looked incredulous . 
interrupted Mary , colouring , `` that is mere absence -- nothing to the purpose -- or perhaps , '' forcing a smile , `` he may be trying to love me ! '' 
Mary thought of her poor old friend , as she said this , with bitterness of heart . 
It was long since she had seen her ; and when she had last inquired for her , her son had said he did not think her well , with a look Mary could not misunderstand . 
She had heard him make an appointment with Lord Lindore for the following day , and she took the opportunity of his certain absence to visit his mother . 
She welcomed Mary with her usual tenderness , but even her presence seemed to fail of inspiring her with gladness . 
Mary found she was totally unsuspicious of the cause of her estrangement , and imputed it to a very different one . 
said she , as she affectionately embraced her ; `` but at such a time I could not expect you to think of me . '' 
`` Indeed , '' answered Mary , equally unconscious of her meaning , `` I have thought much and often , very often , upon you , and wished I could have come to you ; but -- '' she stopped for she could not tell the truth , and would not utter a falsehood . 
Mary , I once hoped that I might have lived to see you the happy wife of the best of sons . 
Mary was struck with consternation to find that her supposed engagement with Mr. Downe Wright , had spread even to Rose Hall ; and in the greatest confusion she attempted to deny it . 
But after the acknowledgment she had just heard , she acquitted herself awkwardly ; for she felt as if an open explanation would only serve to revive hopes that never could be realized , and subject Colonel Lennox and herself to future perplexities . 
Nothing but the whole truth would have sufficed to undeceive Mrs. Lennox , for she had had the intelligence of Mary 's engagement from Mrs. Downe Wright herself , who , for better security of what she already considered her son 's property , had taken care to spread the report of his being the accepted lover before she left the country . 
Mary felt all the unpleasantness of her situation . 
Although detesting deceit and artifice of every kind , her confused and stammering denials seemed rather to corroborate the fact ; but she felt that she could not declare her resolution of never bestowing her hand upon Mr. Downe Wright , without seeming at the same time , to court the addresses of Colonel Lennox . 
In short , poor Mary 's mind was a complete chaos ; and , for the first time in her life , she found it impossible to determine which was the right course for her to pursue . 
Even in the midst of her distress , however , she could not help smiling at the naïveté of the good old lady 's remarks . 
`` He is a handsome young man , I hear , '' said she , still in allusion to Mr. Downe Wright : `` has a fine fortune , and an easy temper . 
All these things help people 's happiness , though they can not make it ; and his choice of you , my dear Mary , shews that he has some sense . '' 
said Mary , laughing and blushing . 
Mary , my dear , let me advise you to beware of being led , even by a mother , in such a matter as this . 
This was the severest censure Mary had ever heard drop from Mrs. Lennox 's lips ; and she could not but marvel at the self-delusion that led her thus to condemn in another the very error she had committed herself ; but under such different circumstances , that she would not easily have admitted it to be the same . 
She sought for the happiness of her son , while Lady Juliana , she was convinced , wished only her own aggrandizement . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Mary , in answer to her friend 's observation , `` parents ought , if possible , to avoid even forming wishes for their children . 
Hearts are wayward things , even the best of them : '' Then more seriously she added , `` and dear Mrs. Lennox , do not either blame my mother nor pity me ; for be assured , with my heart only will I give my hand ; or rather , I should say , with my hand only will I give my heart : And now good bye , '' cried she , starting up and hurrying away , as she heard Colonel Lennox 's voice in the hall . 
She met him on the stair , and would have passed on with a slight remark , but he turned with her , and finding she had dismissed the carriage , intending to walk home , he requested permission to attend her . 
Mary declined ; but , snatching up his hat , and whistling his dogs , he set out with her in spite of her remonstrances to the contrary . 
To be sure , myself , with my shabby jacket , and my spattered dogs , do form rather a ruffian-like escort ; and I should not have dared to have offered my services to a fine lady -- but you are not a fine lady , I know ; '' and he gently drew her arm within his as they began to ascend a hill . 
This was the first time Mary had found herself alone with Colonel Lennox , since that fatal day which seemed to have divided them for ever . 
At first she felt uneasy and embarrassed , but there was so much good sense and good feeling in the tone of his conversation ; it was so far removed either from pedantry or frivolity , that all disagreeable ideas soon gave way to the pleasure she had in conversing with one whose turn of mind seemed so similar to her own ; and it was not till she had parted from him at the gate of Beech Park , she had time to wonder , how she could possibly have walked two miles tête-à-tête with a man whom she had heard solicited to love her ! 
From that day Colonel Lennox 's visits insensibly increased in length and number ; but Lady Emily seemed to appropriate them entirely to herself ; and certainly all the flow of his conversation , the brilliancy of his wit , were directed to her ; but Mary could not but be conscious that his looks were much oftener rivetted on herself , and if his attentions were not such as to attract general observation , they were such as she could not fail of perceiving and being unconsciously gratified by . 
`` How I admire Charles Lennox 's manner to you , Mary , '' said her cousin , `` after the awkward dilemma you were both in . 
Mary 's heart swelled at the thoughts of submitting to such an indignity , especially as she was beginning to feel conscious that Colonel Lennox was not quite the object of indifference to her that he ought to be ; but her cousin 's remarks only served to render her more distant and reserved to him than ever . 
Mary watched her sister 's looks with the most painful solicitude ; for from her lips she knew she never would learn the sentiments of her heart . 
But Adelaide was aware she had a part to act , and she went through it with an ease and self-possession that seemed to defy all scrutiny . 
Once or twice , indeed , her deepening colour and darkening brow , betrayed the feelings of her heart , as the Duke of Altamont and Lord Lindore were brought into comparison ; and Mary shuddered to think that her sister was even now ashamed of the man whom she was so soon to vow to love , honour , and obey . 
She had vainly tried to lead Adelaide to the subject . 
Adelaide would listen to nothing which she had reason to suppose was addressed to herself ; but either with cool contempt took up a book , or left the room , or , with insolent affectation , would put her hands to her head , exclaiming , `` mes oreilles n'etoient pas faites pour les entretiens serieux . '' 
All Mary 's worst fears were confirmed a few days before that fixed for the marriage . 
As she entered the music-room , she was startled to find Lord Lindore and Adelaide alone . 
Unwilling to suppose that her presence would be considered as an interruption , she seated herself at a little distance from them , and was soon engrossed by her task . 
Adelaide , too , had the air of being deeply intent upon some trifling employment ; and Lord Lindore , as he sat opposite to her , with his head resting upon his hands , had the appearance of being engaged in reading . 
All were silent for some time ; but as Mary happened to look up , she saw Lord Lindore 's eyes fixed earnestly upon her sister , and with a voice of repressed feeling he repeated , `` Ah ! 
Adelaide , pale and agitated , rose as if to follow him ; then , recollecting herself , she rushed from the apartment by an opposite door . 
Mary followed , vainly hoping that , in this moment of excited feeling , she might be induced to open her heart to the voice of affection -- but Adelaide was a stranger to sympathy , and saw only the degradation of confessing the struggle she endured in choosing betwixt love and ambition . 
That her heart was Lord Lindore 's , she could not conceal from herself , though she would not confess it to another ; and that other , the tenderest of sisters , whose only wish was to serve her . 
Mary 's tears and entreaties were therefore in vain , and at Adelaide 's repeated desire , she at length quitted her , and returned to the room she had left . 
She found Lady Emily there with a paper in her hand . 
`` Lend me your ears , Mary , '' cried she , `` while I read these lines to you . 
Mary felt it was in vain to attempt to win her sister 's confidence , and she was too delicate to seek to wrest her secrets from her ; she therefore took no notice of this effusion of love and disappointment , which she concluded it to be . 
All traces of agitation had vanished ; and her manner was as cool and collected , as if all had been peace and tranquillity at heart . 
Lady Juliana had , in a very early stage of the business , fixed in her own mind , that she , as a matter of course , would be invited to accompany her daughter upon her marriage ; indeed , she had always looked upon it as a sort of triple alliance , that was to unite her as indissolubly to the fortunes of the Duke of Altamont , as though she had been his wedded wife . 
The Duke had proposed to her to invite her sister , and even expressed something like a wish to that effect ; for though he felt no positive pleasure in Mary 's society , he was yet conscious of a void in her absence . 
-- She was always in good humour -- always gentle and polite -- and , without being able to tell why , his Grace always felt more at ease with her than with any body else . 
But his selfish bride seemed to think that the joys of her elevation would be diminished , if shared even by her own sister , and she coldly rejected the proposal . 
Lady Juliana was next suggested -- for the Duke had a sort of vague understanding that his safety lay in a multitude . 
With him , as with all stupid people , company was society , words were conversation -- and all the gradations of intellect , from Sir Isaac Newton , down to Dr. Redgill , were to him unknown . 
-- The intelligence was communicated to Mary in a letter . 
I sincerely hope , my dear Mary , that you will make a proper Apology to Lady Juliana for my not going to Beech Park -LRB- where I know I would be made most Welcome -RRB- directly -- but I am Certain she will Agree with me that it would be Highly Improper in me to leave Lady M'Laughlan when she is not at all Sure how long Sir Sampson may Live ; and it would Appear very Odd if I was to be out of the way at such a time as That . 
This gives us all the Greatest Pleasure , as I am certain it will also Do Lady Juliana , and you , my dear Mary . 
At the same Time , they are Wonderfully supported , and Behave with Astonishing firmness ; and I Trust , my dear Mary , you will do the Same , as I have no Doubt you will All be married yet , as I am sure you Richly deserve it when it Comes . 
I must now bid you adieu , my dear Mary , as I Am so soon to See yourself . 
And , in kind love to Lady Juliana and you , I remain , My dear Mary , your most affectionate Aunt , `` Grizzel Douglas . 
With the idea of Grizzy was associated in Mary 's mind all the dear familiar objects of her happiest days , and her eyes sparkled with delight at the thoughts of again beholding her . 
exclaimed she , as she finished the letter . 
But nothing could be more unpalatable than the truth ; and poor Mary 's short-lived joy was soon turned into the bitterest sorrow at the reproaches that were showered upon her by the incensed Lady Juliana . 
But for her these people never would have thought of coming to Bath ; or if they did , she should have had no connection with them . 
She had been most excessively ill-used by Mr. Douglas ' family , and had long since resolved to have no farther intercourse with them -- they were nothing to her , & c. & c. -- The whole concluding with a positive prohibition against Mary 's taking any notice of her aunt . 
`` From all that has been said , Mary , '' said Lady Emily , gravely , `` there can be no doubt but that you are the origin of Lady Juliana 's unfortunate connection with the family of Douglas . '' 
-- En attendant , I am determined to patronize Edward 's relations to the last degree ; and therefore , unless Mary is permitted to visit her aunt as often as she pleases , I shall make a point of bringing the dear aunt Grizzy here . 
After a violent altercation , in which Mary took no part , an ungracious permission was at length extorted , which Mary eagerly availed herself of ; and , charged with kind messages from Lady Emily , set off in quest of aunt Grizzy , and the green door . 
The carriage was stopped ; and in an instant Mary was in the arms of her aunt , all agitation , as Lochmarlie flashed on her fancy , at again hearing its native accents uttered by the voice familiar to her from infancy . 
Mary 's taste was somewhat startled , even while her heart warmed at the sight of the good old aunt . 
Mary was grown taller , and stouter , and fairer , and fatter , and her back was as straight as an arrow , and her carriage would even surprise Miss M'Gowk herself . 
It was quite astonishing to see her , for she had always understood Scotland was the place for beauty , and that nobody ever came to any thing in England . 
Even Sir Sampson and Lady Maclaughlan were forgot as she stood rivetted in admiration , and Mary was the first to recal her recollection to them . 
His lady sat by him calmly pursuing her work , and , without relaxing from it , merely held up her face to salute Mary as she approached her . 
`` So , I 'm glad you are no worse than you was , dear child , '' surveying her from head to foot ; `` that 's more than we can say . 
Mary now saw , that there are situations in which a weak capacity has its uses , and that the most foolish chat may sometimes impart greater pleasure than all the wisdom of the schools , even when proceeding from a benevolent heart . 
Mary paid a long visit to her aunt , and then took leave , promising to return the following day to take Miss Grizzy to deliver a letter of introduction she had received , and which had not been left to the chance of the carrier and the snow . 
Although , on her return , Mary read her mother 's displeasure in her looks , and was grieved at again having incurred it , she yet felt it a duty towards her father to persevere in her attentions to his aunt . 
She was old , poor , and unknown -- plain in her person-weak in her intellects-vulgar in her manners ; but she was related to her by ties more binding than the laws of fashion or the rules of taste . 
Even these disadvantages , which , to a worldly mind , would have served as excuses for neglecting her , to Marry 's generous nature , were so many incentives to treat her with kindness and attention . 
Faithful to her promise , therefore , she repaired to Milsom Street , and found her aunt all impatience for her arrival , with the letter so firmly grasped in both hands , that she seemed almost afraid to trust any one with a glance at the direction . 
`` This letter , Mary , '' said she , when they were seated in the carriage , `` will be a great thing for me , and especially for you . 
She received her visitors with that overstrained complaisance , which , to Mary 's nicer tact , at once discovered that all was hollow ; but poor Miss Grizzy was scarcely seated , before she was already transfixed with admiration at Mrs. Fox 's politeness , and felt as if her whole life would be too short to repay such kindness . 
She looked to Mary , but Mary 's hands and eyes betrayed no corresponding emotions ; she felt only disgust at the meanness and indelicacy of the mistress of such a mansion levying contributions from the stranger within her door . 
Mary 's disgust increased . 
`` And this woman , '' thought she , `` professes to be charitable amidst all this display of selfish extravagance . 
And she walked away to the other end of the room , to examine some fine scriptural paintings . 
Mary now advanced , quite unconscious of what had been going on ; and having whispered her aunt to take leave , they departed . 
Mary accompanied her in . 
turning to Mary , who for the first time observed the departure of Mary 's crown jewel . 
Mary was grieved at the loss of the brooch ; but Grizzy seemed more than ever satisfied with the exchange , as Sir Sampson had taken a fancy for the thread papers , and it would amuse him for the rest of the day to be told every two minutes what they were intended for . 
Mary , therefore , left her quite happy , and returned to Beech Park . 
Leaving his mother to settle his affairs in Scotland , to which she was much more au fait than himself , he hastened to Beech Park to claim Mary 's promised hand . 
But neither wealth nor grandeur possessed any sway over Mary 's well-regulated mind , and she turned from that species of happiness which she felt would be insufficient to satisfy the best affections of her heart . 
`` No , '' thought she , `` it is not in splendour and distinction that I shall find happiness ; it is in the cultivation of the domestic virtues -- the peaceful joys of a happy home , and a loved companion , that my felicity must consist . 
Without these , I feel that I should still be poor , were I mistress of millions ; '' and she took the first opportunity of acquainting Lord Glenallan with the nature of her sentiments . 
Lady Juliana 's anger at the discovery of her daughter 's refusal , it is needless to describe -- it may easily be imagined ; and poor Mary was almost heart-broken by the violence and duration of it . 
Sometimes she wavered in her ideas , as to whether she was doing right in thus resisting her mother 's wishes ; and in the utmost distress she mentioned her scruples to Lady Emily . 
`` As to Lady Juliana 's wishes , '' said her cousin , `` they are mere soap bubbles ; but as to your own views -- why really you are somewhat of a riddle to me . 
Mary coloured . 
`` Indeed , '' answered Mary , `` I find I have quite little enough for myself , and I have no genius whatever for managing . 
Now , I am much afraid , Mary , with all your sanctity , you are in some danger of becoming one of these idolatresses . '' 
`` I hope not , '' replied Mary , laughing ; `` but if I should , that seems scarcely so bad as the sect of Independents in the marriage state ; for example , there is Mrs. Boston , who by all strangers is taken for a widow , such emphasis does she lay upon the personal pronoun -- with her , 't is always , I do this , or I do that , without the slightest reference to her husband ; and she talks of my house , my gardens , my carriage , my children , as if there were no copartnery in the case . '' 
`` I confess , I should like that my husband 's genius was at least as bright as my own , '' said Mary , `` and I ca n't think there is any thing unreasonable in that ; or rather , I should say , were I a genius myself , I could better dispense with a certain portion of intellect in my husband ; as it has been generally remarked , that those who are largely endowed themselves , can easier dispense with talents in their companions , than others of more moderate endowments can do ; but virtue and talents on the one side , virtue and tenderness on the other , I look upon as the principal ingredients in a happy union . '' 
-- And this was all of comfort or advice that her ladyship could bestow . 
As Lady Emily was not a person who concealed either her own secrets or those of others , Colonel Lennox was not long of hearing from her what had passed , and of being made thoroughly acquainted with Mary 's sentiments on love and marriage . 
Independent of his narrow fortune , which , he was aware , would be an insuperable bar to obtaining Lady Juliana 's consent , Mary 's coldness and reserve towards him , seemed to increase rather than diminish . 
Or if she sometimes gave way to the natural frankness and gaiety of her disposition before him , a word or look expressive of admiration on his part , instantly recalled to her those painful ideas which had been for a moment forgot , and seemed to throw him at a greater distance than ever . 
Colonel Lennox was too noble minded himself , to suppose , for an instant , that Mary actually felt dislike towards him ; because , at the commencement of their acquaintance , he had not done justice to her merits ; but he was also aware , that , until he had explained to her the nature of his sentiments , she must naturally regard his attentions with suspicion , and consider them rather as acts of duty towards his mother , than as the spontaneous expression of his own attachment . 
For a moment , Mary 's distrust was overcome by the ardour of his address , and the open manly manner in which he had avowed the rise and progress of his attachment ; and she yielded herself up to the delightful conviction of loving and being beloved . 
But soon that gave way to the mortifying reflection that rushed over her mind . 
thought she ; but it is in obedience to his mother 's wish , and he thinks he has succeeded . 
He heard her determination with the deepest anguish , and used every argument and entreaty to soften her resolution ; but Mary had wrought herself up to a pitch of heroism -- she had rejected the man she loved -- the only man she ever could love -- that done , to persist in the sacrifice seemed easy ; and they parted with increased attachment in their hearts , even though those hearts seemed severed for ever . 
that Mary felt how deeply her happiness was involved in the fate of the man she had for ever renounced . 
To no one did she impart what had passed ; and Lady Emily was too dull herself , for some days after the departure of her friend , to take any notice of Mary 's dejection . 
Mary found herself bereft of both her lovers nearly at the same time . 
In a postscript to the letter , and in the same cordial style , the Duchess said something of a hope , that if her mother did come to town , Mary should accompany her ; but this her Ladyship , to Mary 's great relief , declared should not be , although she certainly was very much at a loss how to dispose of her . 
Mary timidly expressed her wish to be permitted to return to Lochmarlie , and mentioned that her uncle and aunt had repeatedly offered to come to Bath for her , if she might be allowed to accompany them home ; but to this her mother also gave a decided negative , adding that she never should see Lochmarlie again , if she could help it . 
In short , she must remain where she was , till something could be fixed as to her future destination . 
`` It was most excessively tiresome to be clogged with a great unmarried daughter , '' her Ladyship observed , as she sprung into the carriage , with a train of dogs , and drove off to dear delightful London . 
On Mary 's warm and unpolluted heart , the tidings of her father 's death produced a very different effect . 
Though she had never known , in their fullest extent , those feelings of filial affection , whose source begins with our being , and over which memory loves to linger , as at the hallowed fount of the purest of earthly joys , she had yet been taught to cherish a fond remembrance of him to whom she owed her being . 
She had been brought up in the land of his birth -- his image was associated in her mind , with many of the scenes most dear to her -- his name and his memory were familiar to those amongst whom she dwelt , and thus her feelings of natural affection had been preserved in all their genuine warmth and tenderness . 
Many a letter , and many a little token of her love , she had , from her earliest years , been accustomed to send him ; and she had ever fondly cherished the hope of her father 's return , and that she would yet know the happiness of being blest in a parent 's love . 
But now all these hopes were extinguished ; and , while she wept over them in bitterness of heart , she yet bowed with pious resignation to the decree of heaven . 
For some months all was peaceful seclusion in Mary 's life , and the only varieties she knew were occasional visits to aunt Grizzy 's , and now and then spending some days with Mrs. Lennox . 
Yet she never complained , and it was only from her languor and weakness that Mary guessed she suffered . 
When urged to have recourse to medical advice , she only smiled and shook her head ; yet , ever gentle and complying to the wishes of others , she was at length prevailed upon to receive the visits of a medical attendant , and her own feelings were but too faithfully confirmed by his opinion . 
Being an old friend of the family , he took upon himself to communicate the intelligence to her son , then abroad with his regiment ; and in the meantime Mary took up her residence at Rose Hall , and devoted herself unceasingly to the beloved friend she felt she was so soon to lose . 
Mary , '' she would sometimes say , `` God forgive me ! 
Dearest Mary , if you live long , you will live to think of the sad hours you have given me , as the fairest , perhaps , of many a happy day that , I trust , heaven has yet in store for you . 
Mary listened to the half-breathed wishes of her dear old friend with painful feelings of regret and self-reproach . 
`` Charles Lennox loved me , '' thought she , `` truly , tenderly loved me ; and had I but repaid his noble frankness -- had I suffered him to read my heart when he laid his open before me , I might now had gladdened the last days of the mother he adores . 
As Mary witnessed his watchful cares , and tender solicitude , she could almost have envied the unconscious object of such devoted attachment . 
With a look of fixed agony , but without uttering a syllable , he put the letter into Mary 's hand as she sat by his mother 's bedside , and then left the room to order preparations to be made for his instant departure . 
On his return , Mary witnessed the painful conflict of his feelings in his extreme agitation , as he approached his mother , to look , for the last time , on those features , already moulded into more than mortal beauty . 
Her look was long , and fondly fixed upon his face ; then turned to Mary with an expression so deep and earnest , that both felt the instantaneous appeal . 
The veil seemed to drop from their hearts ; one glance sufficed to tell that both were fondly , truly loved ; and as Colonel Lennox received Mary 's almost fainting form in his arms , he knelt by his mother , and implored her blessing on her children . 
It was long before Mary could believe in the reality of what had passed . 
It appeared to her as a beautiful , yet awful , dream . 
Could it be , that she had plighted her faith by the bed of death ; that the last look of her departed friend had hallowed the vow now registered in heaven ; that Charles Lennox had claimed her as his own , even in the agony of tearing himself from all he loved ; and that she had only felt how dear she was to him at the very moment when she had parted from him , perhaps for ever ! 
But Mary strove to banish these overwhelming thoughts from her mind , as she devoted herself to the performance of the last duties to her departed friend . 
These paid , she again returned to Beech Park . 
Lady Emily had been a daily visitor at Rose Hall during Mrs. Lennox 's illness , and had taken a lively interest in the situation of the family ; but , notwithstanding , it was some time before Mary could so far subdue her feelings as to speak with composure of what had passed . 
She felt , too , how impossible it was , by words , to convey to her any idea of that excitement of mind , where a whole life of ordinary feeling seems concentrated in one sudden but ineffable emotion . 
All that had passed might be imagined , but could not be told ; and she shrunk from the task of pourtraying those deep and sacred feelings , which language never could impart to the breast of another . 
Yet she felt it was using her cousin unkindly to keep her in ignorance of what she was certain would give her pleasure to hear ; and , summoning her resolution , she at length disclosed to her all that had taken place . 
Her own embarrassment was too great to allow her to remark Lady Emily 's changing colour , as she listened to her communication ; and after it was ended , she remained silent for some minutes , evidently struggling with her emotions . 
At length she exclaimed indignantly -- `` And so it seems Colonel Lennox and you have all this time been playing the dying lover , and the cruel mistress to each other ? 
Mary was too much confounded by her cousin 's reproaches to be able to reply to them for some time ; and when she did attempt to vindicate herself , she found it was in vain . 
Lady Emily refused to listen to her ; and , in haughty displeasure , quitted the room , leaving poor Mary overwhelmed with sorrow and amazement . 
There was a simplicity of heart , a singleness of idea in herself , that prevented her from ever attaching suspicion to others . 
But a sort of vague , undefined apprehension floated through her brain as she revolved the extraordinary behaviour of her cousin . 
Yet it was that sort of feeling to which she could not give either a local habitation or a name ; and she continued for some time in that most bewildering state of trying , yet not daring to think . 
Some time elapsed , and Mary 's confusion of ideas was increasing rather than diminishing , when Lady Emily slowly entered the room , and stood some moments before her without speaking . 
At length , making an effort , she abruptly said -- `` Pray , Mary , tell me what you think of me ? '' 
Mary looked at her with surprise . 
`` I think , '' said Mary , gently , `` that you have misunderstood me ; that , open and candid yourself , almost to a fault , you readily resent the remotest appearance of duplicity in others . 
But you are too generous not to do me justice -- '' `` Ah , Mary ! 
Mary 's colour rose , as she cast down her eyes , and exclaimed with agitation , `` No -- no , indeed ! '' 
Lady Emily threw her arms around her : -- `` Dear Mary , you are perhaps the only person upon earth I would make such a confession to -- it was because I , who had plighted my faith to another -- I , who piqued myself upon my openness and fidelity -- I -- how it chokes me to utter it ! 
Mary , too much affected to speak , could only press her in silence to her heart . 
`` And yet you never appeared to greater advantage , '' said Mary , as she regarded her with admiration . 
`` Perhaps Colonel Lennox '' -- said Mary , blushing , and hesitating to name her suspicion . 
All that I can promise for at present , is , that ` henceforth I will chide no breather in the world but myself , ' against whom I know most faults ; and now , from this day , from this moment , I vow -- '' `` No , I shall do it for you , '' said Mary with a smile , as she threw her arms around her neck ; henceforth But much as Mary loved and admired her cousin , she could not be blind to the defects of her character , and she feared they might yet be productive of great unhappiness to herself . 
Her mind was open to the reception of every image that brought pleasure along with it ; while , in the same spirit , she turned from every thing that wore an air of seriousness or self-restraint ; and even the best affections of a naturally good heart were borne away by the ardour of her feelings , and the impetuosity of her temper . 
Mary grieved to see the graces of a noble mind thus running wild for want of early culture ; and she sought , by every means , save those of lecture and admonition , to lead her to more fixed habits of reflection and self-examination . 
But it required all her strength of mind to turn her thoughts , at this time , from herself to another . 
She , the betrothed of one who was now in the midst of danger , of whose existence she was even uncertain , but on whose fate she felt her own suspended . 
thought she , with bitterness of heart , `` how dangerous it is to yield too much even to our best affections . 
And her soul sickened at the ills her fancy drew . 
But she strove to repress this strength of attachment , which she felt would otherwise become too powerful for her reason to controul ; and if she did not entirely succeed , at least the efforts she made , and the continual exercise of mind , enabled her , in some degree , to counteract the baleful effects of morbid anxiety , and overweening attachment . 
At length her apprehensions were relieved for a time , by a letter from Colonel Lennox . 
An engagement with the enemy had taken place , but he had escaped unhurt : He repeated his vows of unalterable affection ; and Mary felt that she was justified in receiving them . 
She had made Lady Juliana and Mrs. Douglas both acquainted with her situation : the former had taken no notice of the communication , but the latter had expressed her approval , in all the warmth and tenderness of gratified affection . 
Amongst the various occupations to which Mary devoted herself , there was none which merits to be recorded as a greater act of immolation , than her unremitting attentions to aunt Grizzy . 
It was not merely the sacrifice of time and talents that was required for carrying on this intercourse ; these , it is to be hoped , even the most selfish can occasionally sacrifice to the bienseances of society ; but it was , as it were , a total surrender of her whole being . 
When not engaged in radotage with Sir Sampson , her life was spent in losing her scissars , mislaying her spectacles , wondering what had become of her thimble , and speculating on the disappearance of a needle -- all of which losses daily and hourly recurring , subjected Mary to an unceasing annoyance , for she could not be five minutes in her aunt 's company without being at least as many times disturbed , with -- `` Mary , my dear , will you get up -- I think my spectacles must be about you '' -- or , `` Mary , my dear , your eyes are younger than mine , will you look if you can see my needle on the carpet '' -- or , `` Are you sure , Mary , that 's not my thimble you have got , it 's very like it ; and I 'm sure I ca n't conceive what 's become of mine , if that 's not it , '' & c. & c. & c . 
But her idleness was , if possible , still more irritating than her industry . 
When she betook herself to the window , it was one incessant cry of `` Who 's coach is that , Mary , with the green and orange liveries ? 
Come and look at this lady and gentleman , Mary ; I 'm sure I wonder who they are ! 
Here 's something , I declare I 'm sure I do n't know what you call it -- come here , Mary , and see what it is '' -- and so on ad infinitum . 
In short , Mary could not conceal from herself , that weak vulgar relations are an evil to those whose taste and ideas are refined by superior intercourse . 
But even this discovery she did not deem sufficient to authorise her casting off or neglecting poor Miss Grizzy , and she in no degree relaxed in her patient attentions towards her . 
Every meeting began with , `` My dear Mary , how did you sleep last night ? 
If Mary absented herself for a day , her salutation was , `` My dear Mary , what became of you yesterday ? 
Yet all this Mary bore with the patience of a martyr , to the admiration of Lady Maclaughlan , and the amazement of Lady Emily , who declared she could only submit to be bored as long as she was amused . 
On going to Milsom-street one morning , Mary found her aunt in high delight at two invitations she had just received for herself and her niece . 
`` The one , '' said she , `` is to dinner at Mrs. Pullens . 
You ca n't remember her mother , Mrs. Macfuss , I daresay , Mary -- she was a most excellent woman , I assure you , and got all her daughters married . 
And I remember Mrs. Pullens when she was Flora Macfuss ; she was always thought very like her mother ; and Mr. Pullens is a most worthy man , and very rich ; and it was thought at the time a great marriage for Flora Macfuss , for she had no money of her own , but her mother was a very clever woman , and a most excellent manager ; and I daresay so is Mrs. Pullens , for the Macfusses are all famous for their management -- so it will be a great thing for you , you know , Mary , to be acquainted with Mrs. Pullens . '' 
Mary was obliged to break in upon the eulogium on Mrs. Pullens , by noticing the other card -- This was a subject for still greater gratulation . 
`` This , '' said she , `` is from Mrs. Bluemits , and it is for the same day with Mrs. Pullens , only it is to tea , not to dinner -- To be sure it will be a great pity to leave Mrs. Pullens so soon ; but then it would be a great pity not to go to Mrs. Bluemits ' ; for I 've never seen her , and her aunt , Miss Shaw , would think it very odd if I was to go back to the Highlands without seeing Nancy Shaw , now Mrs. Bluemits ; and , at any rate , I assure you we may think much of being asked , for she is a very clever woman , and makes it a point never to ask any but clever people to her house ; so it 's a very great honour to be asked . '' 
It was an honour Mary would fain have dispensed with . 
At another time she might have anticipated some amusement from such parties , but at present her heart was not tuned to the ridiculous , and she attempted to decline the invitations , and get her aunt to do the same ; but she gave up the point when she saw how deeply Grizzy 's happiness , for the time being , was involved in these invitations , and she even consented to accompany her , conscious , as Lady Maclaughlan said , that the poor creature required a leading string , and was not fit to go alone . 
The appointed day arrived , and Mary found herself in company with aunt Grizzy , at the mansion of Mr. Pullens , the fortunate husband of the ci-devant Miss Flora Macfuss ; but as Grizzy is not the best of biographers , we must take the liberty of introducing this lady to the acquaintance of our reader . 
At length the hour of departure arrived , to Mary 's great relief , as she thought any change must be for the better . 
`` Well , certainly , Mary , you must allow Mrs. Pullens is an astonishing clever woman ! 
To be sure , as Mrs. Jekyll said , they certainly were hard -- nobody can deny that -- but then , you know , any thing would be hard , that had been kept since summer was a year ; and I 'm sure I thought they ate wonderfully well considering -- and these red currants , too -- I 'm afraid you did n't taste them -- I wish to goodness you had tasted them , Mary . 
Mary had been accustomed to read , and to reflect upon what she read , and to apply it to the purpose for which it is valuable , viz . 
in enlarging her mind and cultivating her taste ; but she had never been accustomed to prate , or quote , or sit down for the express purpose of displaying her acquirements ; and she began to tremble at hearing authors ' names ` familiar in their mouths as household words ; ' but Grizzy , strong in ignorance , was nowise daunted . 
Mary felt as if perforated by bullets in all directions , as she encountered the eyes of the company , turned alternately upon her aunt and her ; but they were on opposite sides of the room ; therefore to interpose betwixt Grizzy and her assailants was impossible . 
Mrs. Bluemits waved her hand with a look of tender reproach , as she repeated -- `` I 'm sure , Mary , '' said Grizzy , when they were in the carriage , `` I expected , when all the ladies were repeating , that you would have repeated something too . 
Mary felt it a relief to have done with this surfeit of soul , and was of opinion , that learning , like religion , ought never to be forced into conversation ; and that people , who only read to talk of their reading , might as well let it alone . 
-- Next morning she gave so ludicrous an account of her entertainment , that Lady Emily was quite charmed . 
`` Not at my friends , I hope , '' answered Mary ; `` only at folly . '' 
''' Mary had seen , in Mrs. Douglas , the effects of a highly cultivated understanding shedding its mild radiance on the path of domestic life , heightening its charms , and softening its asperities , with the benign spirit of Christianity . 
Her charity was not like that of Mrs. Fox ; she did not indulge herself in the purchase of elegant ornaments , and then , seated in the easy chair of her drawing-room , extort from her visitors money to satisfy the wants of those who had claims on her own bounty . 
Next to goodness , Mary most ardently admired talents . 
She knew there were many of her own sex who were justly entitled to the distinction of literary fame . 
Her introduction to the circle at Mrs. Bluemits ' had disappointed her ; but they were mere pretenders to the name . 
For many months , Mary was doomed to experience all the vicissitudes of hope and fear , as she heard of battles and sieges , in which her lover had a part . 
He omitted no opportunity of writing to her ; but scarcely had she received the assurance of his safety from himself , when her apprehensions were again excited by rumours of fresh dangers he would have to encounter ; and it required all her pious confidence and strength of mind to save her from yielding to the despondency of a naturally sensitive heart . 
But in administering to the happiness of others , she found the surest alleviation to the misfortune that threatened herself ; and she often forgot her own cares in her benevolent exertions for the poor , the sick , and the desolate . 
It was then she felt all the tenderness of that divine precept , which enjoins love of the Creator as the engrossing principle of the soul . 
Mary seldom heard from her mother or sister . 
Their time was too precious to be wasted on dull country correspondents ; but she saw their names frequently mentioned in the newspapers , and she flattered herself , from the eclat with which the Duchess seemed to be attended , that she had found happiness in those pleasures where she had been taught to expect it . 
Mary 's grief and horror at her sister 's misconduct , was proportioned to the nature of the offence . 
She considered it not as how it might affect herself , or would be viewed by the world , but as a crime committed against the law of God ; yet , while she the more deeply deplored it on that account , no bitter words of condemnation passed her lips . 
She thought , with humility , of the superior advantages she had enjoyed , in having principles of religion early and deeply engrafted in her soul ; and that , but for these , such as her sister 's fate was , her 's might have been . 
She felt for her mother , undeserving as she was of commiseration ; and strove , by every means in her power , to promote her comfort and happiness . 
Mary heard all this in shame and silence ; but Lady Emily , wearied and provoked by her folly and want of principle , was often led to express her indignation and contempt , in terms which drew tears from her cousin 's eyes . 
Mary was , indeed , the only person in the world who felt her sister 's dereliction with the keenest feelings of shame and sorrow . 
All Adelaide 's coldness and unkindness , had not been able to eradicate from her heart those deep-rooted sentiments of affection , which seem to have been entwined with our existence , and which , with some generous natures , end but with their being . 
Mrs. Downe Wright had not forgiven the indignity of her son having been refused by Mary , which she imputed entirely to Lady Emily 's influence , and had , from that moment , predicted the downfal of the whole pack , as she styled the family ; at the same time always expressing her wish that she might be mistaken , as she wished them well -- God knows she bore them no ill will , & c . 
She entered the drawing-room at Beech Park , with a countenance cast to a totally different expression from that with which she had greeted Lady Matilda Sufton 's widowhood . 
Melancholy would there have been appropriate , here it was insulting ; and accordingly , with downcast eyes , and silent pressures of the hand , she saluted every member of the family , and inquired after their healths with that air of anxious solicitude , which implied , that if they were all well , it was what they ought not to be . 
Mary was too noble minded , to suspect that Mrs. Downe Wright could intend to level inuendos ; but the allusion struck her : she felt herself blush ; and , fearful Mrs. Downe Wright would attribute it to a wrong motive , she hastened to join in the eulogium on the Benmavis family in general , and Lady Grace in particular . 
Again Mary coloured at the emphasis which marked the sensible , well principled mother , and the well brought up daughters ; and , in some confusion , she said something about Lady Grace 's beauty . 
Mary thought the conversation was getting rather too piquante to be pleasant , and tried to soften the tone of it , by asking that most innocent question , Whether there was any news ? 
She accordingly rallied her forces , and turned to Mary . 
quite aware of the report of Mary 's engagement with Colonel Lennox . 
`` Only one son , '' said Mary , with a little emotion . 
`` In the army , '' answered Mary faintly . 
said Lady Emily to Mary , `` who , to gratify her own malice , says the most cutting things to her neighbours , and , at the same time , feels self-approbation in the belief that she is doing good . 
Do come , Mary , you will help to dispel my chagrin . 
You must needs acknowledge , Mary , that spring in England is a much more amiable season than in your ungentle clime . '' 
This was the second spring Mary had seen set in , in England . 
But the first had been wayward and backward as the seasons of her native climate . 
Still Mary sighed as she thought of Lochmarlie : Its wild tangled woods , with here and there a bunch of primroses peeping forth from amidst moss and withered fern -- its gurgling rills , blue lakes , and rocks , and mountains -- all rose to view ; and she felt , that , even amid fairer scenes , and beneath brighter suns , her heart would still turn with fond regret to the land of her birth . 
He was received by her with rapture , and by Mary with the tenderest emotion . 
He was handsome , brave , good-hearted , and good-humoured , but he was not clever ; and Mary felt some solicitude as to the permanency of Lady Emily 's attachment to him . 
But Lady Emily , quick-sighted to the defects of the whole world , seemed happily blind to those of her lover ; and , when even Mary 's spirits were almost exhausted by his noisy rattle , Lady Emily , charmed and exhilarated , entered into all his practical jokes , and boyish frolics , with the greatest delight . 
She soon perceived what was passing in Mary 's mind . 
`` I see perfectly well what you think of my penchant for Edward , '' said she one day ; `` I can tell you exactly what was passing in your thoughts just now . 
said Mary . 
Mary agreed to the truth of her cousin 's observations in some respects , though she could not help thinking , that love had as much to say in her case as in most others ; for if it did not blind her to her lover 's faults , it certainly made her much more tolerant of them . 
Edward was , in truth , at times , almost provokingly boyish and unthinking , and possessed a flow of animal spirits as inexhaustible as they were sometimes overpowering ; but she flattered herself time would subdue them to a more rational tone : and she longed for his having the advantages of Colonel Lennox 's society -- not by way of pattern , as Lady Emily expressed it , but that he might be gradually led to something of more refinement , from holding intercourse with a superior mind . 
That battle was fought which decided the fate of Europe , and turned so many swords into plough-shares ; and Mary seemed now touching the pinnacle of happiness , when she saw her lover restored to her . 
If Mary had ever distrusted the reality of his affection , all her doubts were now at an end . 
She saw she was beloved with all the truth and ardour of a noble ingenuous mind , too upright to deceive others , too enlightened to deceive itself . 
And , then sending for Mary , she charged her , in the most peremptory manner , to break off all intercourse with Colonel Lennox . 
Poor Mary was overwhelmed with grief and amazement at this new display of her mother 's tyranny and injustice , and used all the powers of reasoning and entreaty to alter her sentiments ; but in vain . 
Although Mary had little hopes of being able to prevail by any efforts of reason , she yet tried to make her mother comprehend the nature of her engagement with Colonel Lennox as of a sacred nature , and too binding ever to be dissolved . 
Mary found her candour had therefore only reduced her to the alternative of either openly rebelling , or of submitting to be talked at , and watched , and guarded , as if she had been detected in carrying on some improper clandestine intercourse . 
But she submitted to all the restrictions that were imposed , and the torments that were inflicted , if not with the heroism of a martyr , at least with the meekness of one ; for no murmur escaped her lips . 
She was only anxious to conceal from others the extent of her mother 's folly and injustice , and took every opportunity of entreating Colonel Lennox 's silence and forbearance . 
Lady Juliana had so often repeated to Mary that it was the greatest presumption in Colonel Lennox to aspire to a daughter of hers , that she had fairly talked herself into the belief that he was all she asserted him to be -- a man of neither birth nor fortune -- certainly a Scotsman , from his name -- consequently having thousands of poor cousins , and vulgar relations of every description . 
She had suffered a great deal too much from her -LRB- Mary 's -RRB- father 's low relations ever to run the risk of any thing of the same kind happening again . 
Colonel Lennox pitied her folly too much to be hurt by her ill-breeding and malevolence ; but he could scarcely reconcile it to his notions of duty , that Mary 's superior mind should submit to the thraldom of one who evidently knew not good from evil . 
At length , she was struck with Mary 's dejection , and observed that Colonel Lennox seemed also dispirited ; but , imputing it to a lover 's quarrel , she laughingly taxed them with it . 
Although Mary could suppress the cause of her uneasiness , she was too ingenuous to deny it ; and , being pressed by her cousin , she at length disclosed to her the cause of her sorrow . 
`` Colonel Lennox and you have behaved like two fools , '' said she , at the end of her cousin 's communication . 
`` To try the effect of patience and submission , '' said Mary , `` rather than openly set at defiance one of the most sacred duties -- the obedience of a child to a parent . 
you had rather have been locked up in a tower -- wringing your hands at the height of the windows , the thickness of the walls , and so forth , '' said Mary . 
In spite of her levity , Lady Emily was seriously interested in her cousin 's affairs , and tried every means of obtaining Lady Juliana 's consent : but Lady Juliana was become more unmanageable than ever . 
At length even Colonel Lennox 's forbearance was exhausted , and Mary 's health and spirits were sinking beneath the conflict she had to maintain , when a sudden revolution in Lady Juliana 's plans caused also a revolution in her sentiments . 
Instant preparations were made for her departure , and in the bustle attendant on them , Mary and her affairs sunk into utter insignificance . 
Indeed , she seemed rather anxious to get her disposed of , in any way that might prevent her interfering with her own plans ; and a consent to her marriage , such as it was , was easily obtained . 
`` Marry whom you please , '' said she ; `` only remember I am not responsible for the consequences . 
Mary readily subscribed to the conditions ; but , as she embraced her mother at parting , she timidly whispered a hope that she would ever consider her house as her home . 
A smile of contempt was the only reply she received , and they parted never more to meet . 
The only obstacle to her union thus removed , Mary thought she might now venture to let her aunt Grizzy into the secret ; and accordingly , with some little embarrassment , she made the disclosure of the mutual attachment subsisting between Colonel Lennox and herself . 
It is greatly to be feared , none of my readers will sympathise in the feelings of the good spinster on this occasion , as she poured them forth in the following extempore or improvisitorial strain : `` Well , Mary , I declare I 'm perfectly confounded with all you have been telling me ! 
not but what it 's a thing we all expected , for there 's no doubt England 's the place for young women to get husbands -- we always said that , you know : Not but what I daresay you might have been married , too , if you had staid in the Highlands , and to a real Highlander , too , which , of course , would have been still better for us all ; for it will be a sad thing if you are obliged to stay in England , Mary ; but I hope there 's no chance of that : You know , Colonel Lennox can easily sell his place , and buy an estate in the Highlands . 
We must really inquire after it , Mary , and you must speak to Colonel Lennox about it , for you know such a property as that may be snapped up in a minute . '' 
Mary assented to all that was said ; and Grizzy proceeded -- `` I wonder you never brought Colonel Lennox to see us , Mary : I 'm sure he must think it very odd . 
I wish to goodness Lady M'Laughlan was come from the dentist 's , that I might consult her about it ; for , of course , Mary , you 'll do nothing without consulting all your friends : I know you 've too much sense for that . 
`` Here 's my niece Mary , Sir Sampson ; you remember her when she was little , I daresay -- you know you used to call her the fairy of Lochmarlie ; and I 'm sure we all thought for long she would have been a perfect fairy , she was so little ; but she 's tall enough now , you see , and she 's going to be married to a fine young man -- none of us know him yet , but I think I must have seen him ; and , at any rate , I 'm to see him to-morrow , and you will see him too , Sir Sampson , for Mary is to bring him to call here , and he 'll tell you all about the battle of Waterloo , and the Highlanders ; for he 's half a Highlander too , and I 'm certain he 'll buy the Dhuanbog estate ; and then when my niece Mary marries Colonel Lennox -- '' `` Lennox ! '' 
`` You see it 's all for fear of my marrying , '' whispered she to Mary : `` I 'm sure such a disinterested attachment , it 's imposible for me ever to repay it ! '' 
Then turning to Sir Sampson , she sought to sooth his perturbation by oft-repeated assurances , that it was not her but her niece Mary that was going to be married to Colonel Lennox : But in vain ; Sir Sampson quivered , and panted , and muttered ; and the louder Grizzy screamed out the truth , the more his irritation increased . 
Recourse was now had to Philistine ; and Mary , thoroughly ashamed of the eclat attending the disclosure of her secret , and finding she could be of no use , stole away in the midst of Miss Grizzy 's endless verbiage ; but as she descended the stairs , she still heard the same assurance resounding -- `` I can assure you , Sir Sampson , it 's not me , but my niece Mary that 's going to be married to Colonel Lennox , '' & c. On returning to Beech Park , she said nothing of what had passed either to Lady Emily or Colonel Lennox -- aware of the amusement it would furnish to both ; and she felt that her aunt required all the dignity with which she could invest her , before presenting her to her future nephew . 
But all Mary 's preconceived plans were threatened with a downfall , by the receipt of the following letter from Miss Jacky : `` Glenfern Castle , -- shire , June 19 , 181 * . 
Oh , Mary , how have you deceived us all !!! 
Oh , Mary , I must again repeat , how have you deceived us all !!! 
Oh , Mary , I can not too often repeat , how have you deceived us all !!! 
From no lips but those of Miss M'Pry would I have believed what I have heard , videlicet , that you -LRB- oh , Mary ! -RRB- 
and a blow , too , from your hand , Mary ! 
Oh , Mary ! 
Nicky 's appendix was as follows : `` Dear Mary , `` Jacky has read her letter to us . 
`` Yours , `` N. D. '' Mary felt somewhat in the situation of the sleeper awakened , as she perused these mysterious anathemas ; and rubbed her eyes more than once , in hopes of dispelling the mist that she thought must needs be upon them . 
But in vain : it seemed only to increase with every effort she made to remove it . 
She was aware , indeed , that when her aunt meant to be pathetic or energetic , she always had recourse to the longest and the strongest words she could possibly lay her hands upon ; and Mary had been well accustomed to hear her childish faults and juvenile indiscretions denounced , in the most awful terms , as crimes of the deepest dye . 
Many an exordium she had listened to , on the tearing of her frock , or the losing of her glove , that might have served as a preface to the Newgate Calendar , Colquhoun on the Police , or any other register of crimes . 
Still she had always been able to detect some clue to her own misdeeds ; but here even conjecture was baffled , and in vain she sought for some resting place for her imagination , in the probable misdemeanour of her lover . 
Mary had often reflected with surprise , that , although Lady Maclaughlan had been the person to introduce her to Mrs. Lennox , no intercourse had taken place between the families themselves ; and when she had mentioned them to each other , Mrs. Lennox had only sighed , and Lady Maclaughlan had humphed . 
`` Oh , Mary ! '' 
But , of course , I do n't mean to blame you , Mary . 
Only if Sir Sampson should die -- to be sure I must always think it was that , that killed him ; and I 'm sure that will soon kill me too -- such a friend -- Oh , Mary ! '' 
`` My dear aunt , '' said Mary , `` you certainly must be mistaken . 
`` There 's no doubt Sir Sampson has quite forgot you , Mary -- and no wonder -- with your being so long away ; but I daresay he 'll come to know you yet . 
But I 'm sure , I hope to goodness he 'll never know you as Mrs. Lennox , Mary . 
And it was very thoughtless in me to have forgot that , till Philistine put me in mind of it , and poor Sir Sampson has had a very bad night ; so I 'm sure , I hope , Mary , you 'll never think any more about Colonel Lennox : and , take my word for it , you 'll get plenty of husbands yet . 
Mary again tried to lead her back to the subject of the Lennoxs , in hopes of being able to extract some spark of knowledge from the dark chaos of her brain . 
`` O , I 'm sure , Mary , if you want to hear about that , I can tell you plenty about the Lennoxs ; or , at any rate , about the Maclaughlans , which is the same thing . 
But she had been silent on the subject to Mary ; for she could not conceal from herself that her husband had been to blame -- that the heat and violence of his temper had often led him to provoke and exasperate where mildness and forbearance would have soothed and conciliated , without detracting from his dignity ; but her gentle heart shrunk from the task of unnecessarily disclosing the faults of the man she had loved ; and when she heard Mary talk with rapture of the wild beauties of Lochmarlie , she had only sighed to think that the pride and prejudice of others had alienated the inheritance of her son . 
But all this Mary was still in ignorance of , for Miss Grizzy had gone completely astray in the attempt to trace the rise and progress of the Lennox and Maclaughlan feud . 
Mary , in some little confusion , was beginning to express to her Ladyship her regret at hearing that Sir Sampson had been so unwell , when she was stopped . 
Mary was too well accustomed to Lady Maclaughlan 's style , not to comprehend that her marriage with Colonel Lennox was an event she had long wished for , and now most warmly sanctioned ; and she hastened home to convey the glad tidings , in a letter , to her aunts , though doubtful if the truth itself would be able to pierce its way through their prejudices . 
Another stroke of palsy soon rendered Sir Sampson unconscious even to the charms of Grizzy 's conversation , and as she was no longer of use to him , and was evidently at a loss how to employ herself , Mary proposed that she should accompany her back to Lochmarlie , to which she yielded a joyful assent . 
The day of Lady Emily 's marriage arrived , and found her in a more serious mood than she had hitherto appeared in ; though it seemed doubtful , whether it was most occasioned by her own prospects , or the thoughts of parting with Mary , who , with aunt Grizzy , was to set off for Lochmarlie immediately after witnessing the ceremony . 
Dear Mary ! 
Mary could only embrace her cousin in silence , as she parted from her brother and her with the deepest emotion , and , assisted by Colonel Lennox , -LRB- who was to follow , -RRB- took her station by the side of her aunt . 
Silence she thought synonymous with low spirits , and she talked , and wondered , and exclaimed incessantly , and assured Mary she need not be uneasy , she was certain Colonel Lennox would follow very soon ; she had not the least doubt of that . 
But even these little torments were forgot by Mary , when she fould herself again in her native land . 
The hills , the air , the waters , the people , even the peat-stacks , had a charm that touched her heart , and brought tears into her eyes as they pictured home . 
But her feelings arose to rapture when Lochmarlie burst upon her view , in all the grandeur , beauty , and repose of a setting sun , shedding its farewell rays of gold and purple , and tints of such matchless hue , as no pencil ere can imitate -- no poet 's pen describe . 
and such was the moment to Mary when the carriage stopped , and she again heard the melody of that voice familiar from infancy -- and looked on the face known with her being -- and was pressed to that heart where glowed a parent 's love ! 
When Mary recovered from the first almost agonizing transports of joy , she marked , with delight , the increased animation and cheerfulness visible in Mrs. Douglas . 
Colonel Lennox lost no time in arriving to claim his promised bride ; and Mary 's happiness was complete , when she found her own choice so warmly approved of by the friends she loved . 
`` all earthly good still blends itself with harm , '' for on the day of Mary 's marriage -- a day consecrated to mirth , and bride-cake , and wedding favours , and marriage presents , and good cheer , and reels , and revelry , and bagpipes -- on that very day , when the marriage ceremony was scarcely over , arrived the accounts of the death of Sir Sampson Maclaughlan ! 
`` Oh , Mary ! '' 
