Sarah , for so I shall call her , shewed early talents for music and drawing , and was delighted with reading the best English poets . 
I have heard her father say , that at ten years old , she read with propriety , and seemed fully to comprehend all the beauties of Pope 's Homer , Dryden 's Virgil , and other works of the same tendency ; Spenser and Shakespeare were great favorites with her . 
Sarah is an only child : she inherited from her mother a small patrimony , about fifteen hundred pounds . 
It was in the funds , and the interest would have been sufficient to keep her at a very genteel school , but her father had an utter aversion to schools ; she was therefore attended by masters in all the polite branches , her aunt documented her about economy , sewing , flourishing muslin , & c. & c. but the larger part of her time , -LRB- her father being engaged in business or pleasure , her aunt in scolding the servants , dressing , and paying or receiving visits -RRB- , Sarah was left to amuse herself with the servants , or read any books which her father 's library afforded , or chance threw in her way , without any one to direct her choice , or correct her taste . 
Possessed of an ardent imagination , it may easily be conceived that works of fancy were read with uncommon pleasure : but this was not the worst ; she read books of religious controversy , nor did the pernicious writings of fashionable sceptics escape . 
Her mind , eager in the pursuit of information , embraced it with avidity , in whatever shape it offered itself . 
Nor is it surprising that from such a heterogeneous jumble , her ideas became a chaos of romantic sensibility , enthusiastic superstition , and sceptical boldness ; yes , contrary as those sentiments are , they each in turn , predominated in the mind of Sarah . 
Her father saw a great deal of company , chiefly gentlemen . 
Had Sarah been of a temperature easily called into action , she could not have escaped contamination in the scenes to which she was too often a witness . 
Her father was not a man of strict morals ; he had supported a woman as a mistress for many years , and was frequently so imprudent as to take his daughter with him , in his visits to this woman . 
But Sarah 's soul naturally revolted at the approach of vice , and when she understood the character of her father 's chere amie , she resolutely refused ever again to enter her house . 
Her aunt was so far serviceable to her that she early inspired her with a love of virtue , and a veneration for religion , which I have no doubt through her life , in spite of her eccentricities , will ever be the leading trait in her character . 
She was just turned of thirteen when I became acquainted with her , and though there were seven years difference in our age , her sense was so matured , her conversation so superior to the generality of women , even at a more advanced period , that I courted her friendship , obtained it , and found her tender , ardent , and sincere , -LRB- if I may be allowed the expression , -RRB- even to a fault . 
Totally unacquainted with the world , she believed it to be such as the books she had read represented ; she believed every profession of love or regard made to her , and would give her last farthing to relieve an object of distress , without staying to inquire whether the distress was feigned or real . 
I have said her father was dissipated ; he was , besides , thoughtless to a superlative degree in his expenses , so that when Sarah had reached her seventeenth year , involved in debt , severely blamed by his friends , and deserted by his dissolute companions , she saw him deprived of his place , the duties of which he had for some time scandalously neglected . 
About six months previous to this deplorable change in her situation , Sarah had buried her aunt ; and when her father , to avoid his creditors , went off to India , she found herself cast unprotected on the world , for having declared her resolution to liquidate the most pressing of her father 's debts , the moment she could sell out money sufficient for the purpose : her relations declared their disapprobation of a conduct which they plainly saw would leave her a very small stipend , and were cautious of inviting to their houses , a person likely to become in some degree a burthen to them . 
I spoke to Sarah on the subject ; her answer was , `` I am fully aware , Anne , that no one can oblige me to pay these sums , and that by retaining my little fortune , I shall be secure from dependence ; but one of my father 's creditors is a poor tradesman , who has a large family of children and a sick wife ; another is a widow , in very depressed circumstances ; what right have I to retain my fortune , while they , whose actual property I have helped to waste , are driven to extreme necessity , when by paying them what is lawfully their due , I restore them to a state of comparative comfort . '' 
This argument was unanswerable ; I did not attempt to dissuade her . 
She sold out a thousand pounds at a considerable loss , paid those she thought were most in need of the money , and remitted the remainder to her father . 
If you still feel interested in my narrative , I will renew it in a short period ; but do not expect any romantic scenes , flaming lovers , or cruel false friends ; what I have to relate , are incidents , perhaps , frequently to be met with in common life ; but I love Sarah , and all that concerns her is interesting to me . 
Sarah having thus discharged those duties which the strong sense she entertained of moral rectitude imposed on her , began to think of some method to enlarge her income by industry , and thus prevent her becoming troublesome to her friends ; I earnestly entreated her to live with me , but in vain . 
`` What is the reason , '' said she , `` that I must not be allowed to support myself ? 
Her plan was to get recommended as a teacher in a boarding school . 
Her aunt strongly opposed it -- `` I wonder , Sarah , '' said she to her one day , `` you have not more pride , than to be willing to live in a state of servitude ; I am ashamed , I blush for your meanness of spirit . '' 
`` I should have more cause to blush for myself , aunt , '' she replied -- `` were I , with the education I have received , to become a useless burthen to my friends . 
Mrs. Vernon colored deeply , and Sarah was allowed to follow her own plan . 
A young women , whose mind was so highly cultivated as Sarah 's , whose manners were so captivating , and who had abilities to be so eminently useful , was an acquisition to any school , and it proved that to the one in which she engaged , she was so in a superlative degree . 
The governess was not possessed of many engaging qualities ; she could speak French , and understood something of the fashionable needlework ; and these were the vast stock of qualifications with which she presumed to take upon herself the care and instruction of young ladies . 
She had been brought up in rather a low walk in life ; had married a reputable tradesman , and at the age of forty-five , was left a widow , with very little provision , but a house full of handsome furniture ; for having been of an expensive turn , she had found means to dissipate money as fast , and sometimes faster , than her husband could accumulate it . 
They had been settled in a very fine situation about five miles from London , nearly three years , when having lost their head teacher by her accepting a more advantageous offer , Mrs. Harrop heard of Sarah 's design , and having had her character very favorably represented by a gentleman who was intimate in her father 's family , she made application to her to take the superintendance of the school . 
Her offers were liberal , and Sarah having consulted me , determined to wait on the lady , to settle preliminaries ; and I , fearing my young enthusiastic friend would engage to perform more than her strength would support , resolved to accompany her . 
This visit produced some singular circumstances , and indeed , as things have terminated , may be termed the great period which gave the coloring to my dear Sarah 's future life . 
You have observed the dignity of Sarah 's carriage -- at that period it was more conspicuous than it is at present . 
At times when she supposed herself not treated with proper respect by those whose wealth or situation in life gave them a fancied superiority , it would rise into something like hauteur ; but to her equals she was ever affable , and to her inferiors , her manners were so sweetly conciliating , that while they forgot the disparity custom and education made between them , the affectionate respect her conduct inspired , never permitted them to treat her with improper familiarity . 
Her dress was always the habit of a woman of fashion , without the smallest affectation of finery . 
I laughed , Sarah smiled , and observed , that she was wondrous polite . 
Yes , my dear , said I , a great deal more so , than she would have been , had she guessed the nature of our business . 
She was a tall , masculine figure , dark complexioned , her cheeks just lightly tinged with best vegetable rouge , large black eyes , and very strong brows of the same color , meeting over her nose , which was inclined to the aquiline . 
`` Pray be seated , ladies , '' said she , seating herself at the same time , `` I am extremely honored by this visit , and I hope , upon the inspection of the work , & c. that has been executed in the school , you will be so far satisfied , as to give me the preference , in the placing any young lady from home for the purpose of education . 
I perceived the vermilion of Sarah 's complexion begin to heighten , so interrupted the loquacious governess with , `` True , madam , and I flatter myself my friend , Miss Osborn here , will do honor to those who spoke so favorably of her . '' 
`` Madam , '' said she , `` did I understand you -- this the young -- '' `` Yes , madam , '' said Sarah , bowing with composure and dignity , `` I am the young person to whom you addressed this letter ; I feel myself competent to the business therein mentioned , and shall only add , that if I engage in the situation , I shall strive to discharge my duty conscientiously . '' 
`` Upon my word , well to be sure , I thought , '' said the confused lady , then rising hastily , she rung the bell , and then seating herself familiarly on the sofa , between Sarah and myself -- `` I dare say , my dear , '' she continued addressing Sarah , `` you will do very well ; Mr. Lewis said you had a great deal of taste , was patient and good natured . '' 
`` I am so , I trust , madam , '' said Sarah , coloring , `` when not imposed on . '' 
As I wished to converse with Sarah , before she made any positive engagement , I made a motion to go . 
`` We will see you again in the evening , Mrs. Harrop , '' said I. `` Permit me , ladies , '' said Darnley , with a respectful bow , `` to call up your carriage , and do me the honor , '' presenting his hand to Sarah ! 
she accepted it , and with a slight courtesy to the governess , and one more respectful to Mrs. Darnley , tripped down stairs , and left Mrs. Harrop to explain to her visitor , who and what she was , at her leisure . 
When young Darnley had handed Sarah into the carriage , the bow of profound respect which accompanied the action , and the fixed attitude in which he remained on the steps of the door , until the carriage drove off , occasioned me to smile , and ask her if she knew the gentleman ? 
and if she did not think him handsome ? 
`` I am sure I do n't know , '' answered she gravely , `` whether he is handsome or ugly ; I never saw him before , and have no wish ever to see him again . '' 
`` I am much mistaken , Sarah , '' said I , `` if he is quite so indifferent in regard to seeing you again . '' 
`` Do not let us talk like a couple of girls , '' said she , with a half smile , `` who never received the smallest degree of polite attention from a man in their lives before . '' 
She then turned the conversation upon Mrs. Harrop , Miss Julia , the work , & c. `` I am much deceived , '' said she , `` if I do not shew them some work and painting , at the end of the next term , superior to the daubs she so ostentatiously displayed : the work is very well , but there is a want of taste in the arrangement of the colors , the flowers want that lightness which is the greatest beauty of needlework . '' 
I then gave her the necessary hints for not engaging to perform more than her strength would admit ; she replied , `` that if she was paid for her time , it would become a duty not to waste a moment , but to fill it up assiduously for the benefit of her employer . '' 
We dined with a friend , and in the evening returned to Mrs. Harrop 's , made the necessary arrangements , and it was agreed that Sarah should take her new situation on the Saturday following . 
She had not long superintended the school , before Mrs. Harrop discovered what a treasure she had got ; the scholars naturally attached themselves to her , especially those who had been accustomed to associate with well bred persons ; her manners were so gentle , yet commanding ; her language and appearance were so superior to the governess and her daughter , that they loved , while they dared not disobey her . 
But this , while it enhanced her value , created a kind of envy in the bosoms of both the mother and Miss Julia , which sometimes shewed itself unpleasantly ; and when Sarah would give her opinion , which she often did , contrary to that of these ladies , a degree of fretfulness apparent in their answers , would evince their consciousness of her superiority ; yet though they opposed her arguments , they generally adopted her plans . 
During her residence here , she was frequently seen by George Darnley ; his sister was extremely attached to her ; his mother was pleased with her attentions to her daughter , and George himself fancied he was in love with her . 
Such a disposition was by no means likely to please Sarah ; her chief pleasures were retired ; she loved society , indeed , but did not often mix in it , because she could not often meet with such as afforded her satisfaction . 
I have mentioned that she had no brother . 
There was a young man whom Mr. Osborn had educated , and got into the navy , by the name of Frederic Lewis ; indeed , it was thought he was her natural brother , but of this her father never gave her any intimation . 
This young man felt all the fraternal love for her , which a man of sense might be supposed to feel for a sister like her ; he thought her one of the most superior women the world afforded , and when on returning from a three year 's station in the West-Indies , he found the great change which had taken place in Mr. Osborn 's family , saw his sister -LRB- for so he always called her -RRB- employed as a teacher in a boarding school -- his sensations were poignant beyond description ; but alas , Frederic was but a lieutenant , and what could he do ? 
EXACTLY what I apprehended , came to pass : Sarah , anxious to exert herself for the advantage of her employers , went beyond her strength , was constantly at her needle or pencil , when the cessation of school business might even have allowed her recreation . 
She uniformly declined visiting any where , except now and then spending a day with me ; her aunt 's family , pretending offence at her entering into what they termed a servile employment , were , whenever she chanced to see them , cold and distant ; it was not therefore likely that she could reap much satisfaction from visiting them ; her other acquaintance had , some of them , chosen to forget her , and the rest treated her with a haughty familiarity , inquiring into the employments , and lamenting the fatigues of her new situation , sometimes mingling with these humiliating questions and observations , oblique sarcasms on her father ; which her high sense of filial duty could ill brook . 
This being the case , she frequently undertook the business of the other teacher , in order that she might reap the benefit of time , which , to Sarah herself , was of no value ; that is , of no value to be employed as usual with persons in her situation Such unwearied application , added to little air , and less exercise ; at least proper exercise , weakened a constitution not naturally robust , and extreme languor , difficulty of breathing , and a hectic cough were symptoms too alarming to be beheld by me with indifference ; but she herself treated them lightly , and would smiling say , `` I am not sick ; you want me to play the fine lady , which would be very unbecoming in a person in my station ; '' and when I have remonstrated , her reply would be , `` Dear Anne , tell me where would be the loss of such an atom in creation as I am ? 
Miss Darnley had , at her mother 's desire , invited Sarah to pass a few months with them at a small house they had at Turnham Green , and said her daughter should continue her studies at home under her inspection ; but this , from the consideration of young Darnley 's pointed assiduities , she positively , though politely , rejected ; nor did I blame her . 
Among the many who visited the school , to inspect the improvement of pupils , whom they had placed there , was Lady Bentley ; she had two children sent from the West-Indies to her care , and having had some slight personal knowledge of Sarah Osborn , during her father 's prosperity , hearing that she was the principal teacher at Mrs. Harrop 's , gave that school the preference . 
This was addressing Sarah , in the style which was to lead her to whatever was desired . 
Tears started to her eyes , she acknowledged Lady Bentley 's goodness ; the mention of her father 's name , accompanied with expressions of respect , was so soothing to her heart , that she readily agreed to do whatever might be thought necessary for the establishment of her health . 
Lady Bentley thought it would be the very thing for Sarah ; the lady wanted a companion , who would case her of the constant care she thought necessary to be paid to girls of the age of her daughters . 
She was introduced to Sarah , was charmed with her demeanor , and made her such offers as were honorable to her own liberal nature , and highly advantageous to my friend . 
She strove to draw her into a promise to return to her in the spring , but this Sarah was too wise to accede to . 
Previous to her taking her journey , she spent three weeks with me , and Frederic being with us , the lively parties and excursions he was continually contriving , helped to restore a great portion of her health and cheerfulness . 
Mr. Lewis himself was much better pleased with his sister 's situation ; he had been with her on a morning visit to Mrs. Beaumont , and was satisfied , that she was a perfectly wellbred woman ; which to a person of a delicate mind , is one guarantee for happiness ; for it is a certainty , no person accustomed to the forms of good breeding , and to that suavity of manners , which is dictated by a polished understanding , especially when accompanied by even the smallest portion of good nature , can be happy in the society of ill bred persons . 
Of her situation during her stay at Bath , I refer you to her own letter , which I enclose . 
Sarah , so far from being flattered by the attentions of the men , was , as she herself forcibly expresses it , humbled ; the situation of her mind , together with the irregular hours Mrs. Beaumont kept , rendered the medicinal virtues of the Bath waters of no effect . 
But I was shocked at the appearance of Sarah ; every bad symptom was evidently increased , and I was assured by a physician whom I had requested to call as by accident to see her , nothing but quiet and regular living would have any chance of restoring her . 
Sarah smiled . 
The dear children , madam , said she , are my comforts ; I could not have remained with you so long , had not my heart been strongly drawn towards those interesting young ladies . 
When Sarah left this amiable woman , she presented her with an elegant pocket book , which on opening , was found to contain a note of fifty guineas , together with a most affectionate letter , recommending her to a widow lady , who resided at Islington , who would be glad to take her as a boarder , where she might enjoy pure air , quiet , and the exercise of walking , whenever she felt inclined , in a large garden . 
I should have insisted on her going with me on some tour of pleasure , but business of an important nature obliged me to visit Paris , and the speed with which I was obliged to travel , as well as the length of the journey , made it impossible she should accompany me thither . 
The evening before my departure , I passed a few hours with her at her new habitation , and discovered that the old lady with whom she had taken up her abode , was a distant relation of the Darnley family . 
This was an unpleasant circumstance to Sarah , but she was every way else so comfortably accommodated , and reflecting wherever she was , Mrs. Darnley would claim a sight of visiting her , she made no attempt to remove . 
I received several letters from Sarah , during my residence abroad ; the last I received previous to my leaving Paris shocked me by announcing her marriage with George Darnley . 
I enclose the letter , -LSB- 1 -RSB- as it will best inform you of her motives , her prospects , her feelings and anxieties , at this eventful period . 
I had played until I was weary , and was sitting in a kind of listless half sleep and awake manner , when a single rap at the street door made me start ; the servant , who was sitting up in the kitchen , ran to the door , but had the precaution to put the chain across before she opened it . 
`` You hope , Sarah ? '' 
`` I do believe , Sarah , '' said he , turning laughing towards me , `` our cousin Mary here is in love with me , she seems so uneasy at the return of Jessey . 
`` Will you be so very good , my kind hearted Sarah ? '' 
said he ; `` it will indeed gratify me very much ; she is a distressed woman , has been calumniated by the world , and ill treated by her husband 's relations , who are endeavoring to wrest the little property her husband left , from her and her infant daughter , in order to secure it to her son , whom they have taken from her . 
Your countenancing her , will give her an air of respectability , and restore her to that rank in society , from which she has unjustly been driven by the ill nature and jealousy of a brutal husband . '' 
I do not think Sarah is of a jealous temper , but the inuendos of Mary Melbourn might awaken suspicion ; and where suspicion is once called into action , every word , look and movement is considered through a false medium , and even the most innocent , construed into proofs of guilt I am convinced that more than half the uneasinesses that subsist between married persons have originated in meddling friends of either sex ; but to our shame , I must own , I believe our own sex more addicted to this folly than the other . 
The summer before he became acquainted with Sarah , this woman had a small house near the summer residence of Darnley 's family . 
Her manners being polished , her temper naturally sweet , her cheerfulness exhilarating to all with whom she associated , she soon became a favorite with Mrs. Darnley , who , having met her several times at visits in the neighborhood , invited her to her house , and an intimacy ensued . 
My aunt never mentioned the affair until after Darnley was married to my friend Sarah ; and then a sudden exclamation , that he was unworthy so good a wife , led to the relation . 
My aunt could make no reply to such a remark , she had thought herself that Mrs. Romain would have shewn most prudence by remaining more at home , and not admitting young Darnley to be so constantly with her : she had thought her conduct very reprehensible , but she was not upon such intimate terms as could authorize a remonstrance , which , however , delicately given , or friendly designed , might have been deemed impertinence . 
It expressed a strong desire to be released from the fetters which bound the writer to one , and set her at liberty to devote herself to the other ; an offer to quit her legal protector , and go to any part of the world with her paramour ; concluding with saying , she could take with her papers , which would secure her independence . 
I shewed her this diabolical paper ; but she denied all knowledge of it , with such asseverations , and resented my suspicions with such an appearance of conscious innocence . 
that I almost doubted the evidence of my own senses , which had noticed familiarities between her and Darnley , which were very unbecoming a virtuous , married woman . 
Determined to put the writings mentioned beyond her reach , I placed them with you . 
It is a beautiful evening , and my charming little friend Sarah waits at the door in a coach , to take me to Kensington gardens . 
These circumstances , being made known to me , when it was too late to prevent Sarah from forming a connexion which , I greatly fear , will prove the ruin of her peace , I thought best not to mention them ; nor have I , since my return , permitted her to think I am in the least acquainted with any circumstance concerning Mrs. Romain . 
Jessey , -LRB- as I shall henceforth call her , -RRB- is a specious woman ; very insinuating in her manner ; and my dear Sarah , with all her good sense , is very credulous , and open to deception ; but I do earnestly hope that the film will not fall from her eyes on this occasion ; for what situation in life is more mortifying , than that of a neglected wife ? 
I shall let you know what discoveries I make ; I shall not be inquisitively prying , but I shall observe and draw conclusions from those observations , not to gratify any impertinent curiosity , but in order to guard the peace of the invaluable Sarah . 
THIS Jessey is more artful than I believed her to be ; she has gained such an ascendancy over Sarah , that she leads her into all manner of dissipation and extravagance . 
She is ever on the wing , always in a crowd ; a good way , you will say , of making her inattentive to her own particular conduct . 
Sarah , indulged from infancy in elegant habiliments , though her own taste prevents her dressing fine , is thoughtlessly extravagant ; elegant laces , rich satins , with gloves , caps , shoes , & c. suitable , are not procured for a trifling sum in the course of a year ; and Sarah is , perhaps , not so careful of her clothes , or attentive to the expenditures of her house keeping as she ought to be ; her heart is naturally liberal ; she has no idea of being imposed on by her servants , and when sometimes a slight suspicion will cross her mind , that her provisions are wasted , or her clothes wilfully lost , any plausible excuse will quiet her , and from a native love of peace , she will cease to inquire concerning her domestic concerns , or appear satisfied , when in faet , she is not convinced ; she exerts but little authority in the management of her family : dressing , making and receiving visits , late hours at night , and , consequently , late mornings , have , in appearance , totally altered the character of the late interesting Sarah . 
She gives dinners and suppers in very high style , and is herself the very soul of the parties she draws around her ; while Jessey , satisfied with having persuaded or flattered her into these follies , with an assumed humility , declines joining the parties , and I am well convinced , has more than once instigated Darnley to blame Sarah for a conduct , which I acknowledge very reprehensible . 
But she should be remonstrated with mildly , and not vulgarly reproached , and taunted with having all the extravagant propensities of a fine lady , without having brought any fortune to support them . 
Yet this unmanly reproach was made to the humiliated Sarah , in my presence , a few days since . 
To which she replied , with more sincerity than prudence : `` You knew my poverty , and wilfully burthened yourself with a woman , who can neither feel nor think as you do . 
He told her , it was not because he could not afford it , but because he did not choose , that she should lead so gay a life , that he found fault . 
She flew out of the room , and gave vent to her full heart by tears , -LRB- which she ever endeavors to restrain in his presence -RRB- in her own apartment . 
Thither the officious , intrusive Jessey followed her , and I was astonished when we met at dinner , for I was passing the day with her , to find her dressed , and hear her declare , she meant to join a party to the play , from whence she was going to a card party , and that she meant to sup out . 
She entreated me to accompany her ; but I very good naturedly felt at that moment a strong propensity to stay and keep Mrs. Romain company . 
I found a new novel in Sarah 's dressing room , and bidding the maid fetch Mrs. Romain 's work , told Darnley we did not want him , so he might as well follow his wife to the play ; and having partly laughed , and partly satirized him into some sense of shame , I had the pleasure to see him depart , and very composedly begun and finished the novel before twelve o'clock ; at which hour , Jessey being no longer able to command her impatience , and pretend pleasure , when in truth she was bursting with vexation , said she was sleepy , rang for candles , and with a profusion of civility , bade me a good night . 
About two o'clock Sarah returned , and Darnley with her ; he was very petulant , and taking a candle , went immediately to his room . 
Sarah threw herself on the sofa , and burst into tears . 
`` Nothing of consequence , '' said she , `` I am ashamed of myself , but -- '' `` I am afraid , my dear Sarah , '' said I , in a softened , almost hesitating voice , `` that you are somewhat to blame , in the little disagreement of to-day ; you must not be offended , you have even given me leave to be sincere with you ; why , when Mr. Darnley expressed a dislike to your leading so dissipated a life , why did you immediately dress and go out ? 
`` Anne , '' said she , wiping away her tears , `` I feel you are right , but I can not command my temper at all times . 
Heaven knows , '' continued she , and her lips began to tremble , and her voice to falter , `` Heaven knows I strive to consider him with respect ; to behold him with affection ; but how can I compel my heart to love a man , who one hour treats me with rudeness and contempt , and the next , with a disgusting fondness , even more repulsive to me than his ill nature ? 
`` I will implicitly regard your prudent injunction , '' I replied , struck with the magnanimity of her resolution , `` but will you allow me to mention one thing more , which I really think it my duty to point out to you , as I believe much of your happiness in future will depend on your attending to my advice on this subject . 
`` Anne , '' said she , `` do you apprehend that Jessey has any interested views in sowing dissention between us ? '' 
I perceived her drift , and , rising , said , `` I think nothing , only that Mrs. Romain is not a woman whom I could wish to see the friend of Sarah Darnley . 
She has a strong tincture of foreign manners , and what is dignified with the appellation of a masculine mind ; but she has not one quality which should give her an ascendancy over such a mind as yours Good night , '' said I , kissing her cheek , `` let me see you good friends with that unaccountable being , your husband , to-morrow ; and while you have yourself every disposition to make your fetters easy , do not suffer officious meddlers to render them galling . 
She went home yesterday , and I have not heard from Sarah since . 
Darnley has lost his mother ; she was an amiable woman , and in her soicety Sarah often found solace for her afflicted heart . 
I look upon this bereavement as peculiarly unfortunate for her , as the respectability of his mother 's character , her steady , though unassuming love of virtue , made George anxious to preserve some respect to decency ; but that slight restraint removed , he will no longer regard appearances . 
Sarah 's thoughtlessness and folly -LRB- for I must give it that harsh term -RRB- increases ; the more agonized her heart , -LRB- and agonized it is I am certain in a very high degree , -RRB- the more dissipated her conduct ; and to see her in company , you wonld suppose her the happiest of the happy . 
When alone , she either sits pensive and unemployed , except in reading some work of fancy , or applies to her music , playing and singing the most plaintive airs , while tears roll down her cheeks , and she seems lost to all but exquisite sensibility . 
Yet from such a state of depression , she will start suddenly up , dress , and fly to some scene of pleasure ; often losing very considerable sums at cards , and seldom or ever returning until very late at night -- sometimes she is favored with her husband 's company , but oftener she is left to herself . 
I am almost continually with her ; for I do not think a young and prepossessing woman can be placed in a more perilous situation , than to be neglected by her husband , and yet constantly mixing in that kind of society which abounds with libertines and flatterers , who think such a woman ever an object of illicit pursuit . 
Not that I doubt Sarah 's principles , I know she loves virtue for its own sake ; but she is imprudent , and might inadvertently fall into situations , which may ruin her reputation , and perhaps her peace of mind for ever . 
I am going this evening to her house , to remain a week with her , and shall not finish my letter until I retire for the night . 
The veil is at length rent , Sarah can no longer even pretend blindness to the insult her husband has offered her . 
How she will conduct on this trying occasion , I can not think , nor can I dare to advise ; I can only commiserate her situation , and weep , not with , -LRB- for she has not shed a tear , -RRB- but for her . 
`` Then why , my dear Sarah , '' said I , `` did you come out ? '' 
I must own my heart sunk at this discovery , and I thought a flash of awakened suspicion kindled upon the check of Sarah . 
said Sarah , impatiently . 
Sarah opened the drawing room door , the candles were burning on the table , but the room was empty . 
`` I will go up and see how Darnley is , '' said she , taking a chamber candle from the servant , `` and will see you again for a few minutes before I go to bed . '' 
She ran hastily up stairs , she is very light of foot , besides which , the stairs are carpeted , so that her ascent seemed no more than the gliding of a shadow . 
I sat down by the fire ; in less than two minutes she returned , her face pale , and positively gasping for breath . 
Her limbs scarcely supported her to the sofa , where I was sitting , on which she sunk almost insensible . 
Alarmed , I rang for water ; she swallowed a little , and then speaking with difficulty , bade the servant go to bed ; she could undress herself , she said , and as she knew where to find her night clothes , there was no occasion for her to go into the room . 
The poor girl , who suspected what was the matter , began to speak , but Sarah waved her from the room with an emphatic `` Go , '' and a motion of the hand , which , in her , carries with it positive command . 
About eight o'clock we heard Darnley 's bell ring violently ; she immediately left my chamber without speaking . 
DARNLEY 's dinner hour is four o'clock , the usual time for dining with all mercantile persons . 
Sarah kept her room until near three . 
About a quarter before three , Sarah came into my room ; she was dressed as usual for dinner ; and from her countenance , no indifferent person could have judged she had been discomposed : it was marked with a peculiar kind of sadness , which rendered it interesting ; but to me , who knew her , the effort she made to conceal her emotions , was very evident . 
`` Anne , '' said she , `` I am determined to see and speak to Jessey , before Darnley 's return . 
to go up into her room , or send for her into my dressing room ? '' 
I gave my opinion for the latter She thought a verbal message might have a rude appearance , but wrote on a slip of paper : `` Mrs. Darnley requests Mrs. Romain to favor her with a few minutes conversation previous to their meeting at dinner . '' 
Sarah 's countenance changed as she perused this haughty scrawl , for the uneven letters betrayed the tremor of the hand that wrote them ; she tore off the back of the billet , and wrote with her pencil : `` Madam , a personal interview is not sought from any expected pleasure it may afford , but because I think it necessary to speak a few words to you . 
Sarah walked once or twice across the room . 
`` Anne , '' said she , `` you must go with me ; I hope I shall not forget myself ; I hope I shall remember I am a rational being , and a christian , and that though this unhappy woman has injured me , I am not myself free from error , and have therefore no right to treat her with unmerciful contempt . '' 
`` Heaven support your good resolves , my dear Sarah , '' said I , and was obliged to turn from her , to hide my own rising emotion . 
She tapped at Jessey 's door ; the little girl opened it , and being extremely fond of Sarah , gave an instant exclamation of joy , saying , `` Come in , ma Darny ; Lyza glad , Lyza want kiss ma Darny . '' 
I feared this innocent prattle would be too much for my friend , but I had judged erroneously ; she stooped , kissed the child , and , ringing the bell , bade the maid take her down and give her an orange . 
Sarah seated herself , we followed her example ; a pause of about a minute ensued , in which period I am not certain but I felt more than either the injurer or the injured . 
I perceived that Sarah 's heart beat high , she struggled for composure ; she attained it . 
`` I come not , Mrs. Romain , '' said she , in a low , but impressive voice , `` to recapitulate past events , or to awaken resentful emotions by reproaches . 
`` Do not labor under a mistake , madam , '' said Sarah , `` you have not wounded my peace , though I greatly fear you have forever banished your own ; but let us talk no more . 
So saying , she left the room , and went to her own , where she remained until dinner was served . 
In the evening , Jessey sent for a coach , and having thanked Sarah for all favors , and received her wishes for her health , went to a lodging . 
The next morning her trunks were sent after her ; but the occurrences of that day must be the subject of another letter . 
THE morning following , the eventful day of which I gave you an account in my last , Sarah appeared at the breakfast table with a pale , languid countenance ; she had retired early the night before , and I was in hopes would have obtained some quiet repose -- a refreshment which her agitated frame and tortured mind seemed greatly to stand in need of . 
I learnt that Darnley had not been home all night ; he had come home early in the morning , and changed his clothes , but told the maid he did not wish to have her mistress disturbed . 
She is a woman whom I esteem ; she loves me with her whole soul ; she has given incontestable proofs , that her affection for me supersedes all other considerations ; and had she sooner been freed from her matrimonial shackles , you would never have been the wife of Sarah gave vent to her swollen heart in a flood of tears , when she had perused this unmanly epistle ; she wrote a few lines , which as near as I can recollect , I subjoin : `` That I am your wife , Mr. Darnley , is more my misfortune , than my fault . 
He went out at two o'clock ; I saw Sarah sinking under her mental sufferings , and put off my engagement to remain at home with her . 
-- that she passed for his wife in the house where they lodged , and went by the name of Hayley ; that the maid and child were left at home ; and that they said they were going a tour of pleasure . 
I intend remaining with Sarah during his absence . 
She has regained her composure , and mixes again in society ; but she assures me , there is now no tie between Darnley and herself , but the strong sense she entertains of what is due to moral rectitude . 
I have no doubt but he will endeavor to incense her so far , as to make her wish a separation ; but she will never do that , as there is no state in the world she thinks so humiliating and pitiable , as a woman in a state of separation from her husband ; the world ever ready to condemn , does not fail ever to attach some share of blame to the conduct of a wife who is slighted and forsaken by her legal protector . 
I was interrupted an hour since , by the arrival of a letter from Scarborough , where my brother has been for some time ; he is dangerously ill -- I must leave Sarah immediately ; she has promised to write often , you shall have copies of all her letters , as she has allowed me that liberty . 
`` You are welcome home , Mr. Darnley , '' said I , half extending my hand towards him . 
He arose , took it with an appearance of cordiality , and saluting me , said , `` he was glad to see me look so well . 
I came into town very late last night , '' said he , `` and would not disturb your repose by knocking you up at three o'clock '' -- -LRB- very considerate all at once , was he not , Anne ? -RRB- 
I smiled , and inquired if he had had a pleasant journey ? 
We chatted on indifferent subjects during breakfast , with much complacency on both sides ; he told me he had invited a large party of gentlemen to dinner . 
`` You must be very extravagant then , '' said he , petulantly , `` how much do you think you owe ? '' 
`` And where the devil , Sarah , do you thing I can get three or four hundred pounds ? 
There are ten guineas '' -- continued he , throwing the money on the table ; `` make the most of it ; for I do not know when I can give you any more . '' 
He then took his hat , and went immediately out I went into the kitchen to give the necessary orders for dinner -- as I came up the stairs , I met the head clerk in much consternation ; he followed me into the breakfast parlor , and entreating my pardon for the pain he was about to give me , said he was afraid Mr. Darnley was likely to break -- for that bills had been presented the day before , to a great amount ; and that he had gone out this morning , without giving any orders how they were to be provided for I hear Darnley below -- I will resume my pen to-morrow . 
I observed he laid an emphasis on the words must not ; and unwilling to do or say any thing which might awaken the curiosity of my companions , I resolved , when we met again , civilly to give her the compliments of the evening . 
We met , I courtsied with a manner formally polite ; but judge my surprise , when , advancing with an air of freedom , she took my hand , and cried , `` My dear madam , how glad I am to see you ? 
and you wretch , '' cried she , turning to Darnley , `` where have you been these hundred years ? 
She looked -- but she made no reply . 
said she to me , with the most easy effrontery . 
He seemed a little softened at this reflection , and continued in a milder key : `` I think , Sarah , you had better go home this morning ; perhaps the ruin has not reached so far as a general execution , and you may snatch a few trifles for yourself and me from the general desolation . '' 
The ostensible reason alleged was to place her son in some foreign seminary for education ; and if she could travel in a chariot and four , with a footman , groom , and servant , out of livery attending , it was certainly a prudent saving of her own money , and a much more agreeable mode of making the journey , than either in an hired chaise or a stage coach . 
` You are very positive , Sarah , ' said she , `` one would think you could have no great predilection for a man who has used you so ill , has run through all his property , and made himself a beggar . '' 
`` Well , you ever was so self-opinionated , so head-strong , Sarah ! '' 
`` What , telling over all your grievances , Sarah ? '' 
`` No , she is not , '' replied Mrs. Vernon , `` she is offended because I have been advising her , as your affairs are so embarrassed , to try to do something for herself , and for you to get some employment ; and in short , for you to live apart . '' 
I wrote again , no answer ; and uneasy as I was , I had no remedy but patience ; indeed , for the last three weeks , my feelings have been so tortured by the sufferings and death of my beloved brother , that I almost forgot even my valued Sarah . 
The next morning I set off for London , and immediately on my arrival , went according to her directions , to Greek Street , Soho . 
I found her , but how ? 
In a very confined lodging , actually employed in ironing her husband 's shirts ; she looked very pale , but starting at my entrance , the crimson tide rushed over her face , and throwing herself into my arms , she seemed to experience a kind of suffocating hysterical affection ; it was neither laughing nor crying , but a mixture of both , which evidenced the depression of her spirits and weakness of her frame . 
`` Why , '' said she , as soon as she could speak , `` why do you come here ? '' 
To see you , my dear Sarah , '' said I , `` why have you not answered my letters ? '' 
`` I had nothing either new or pleasant to write , '' she replied , `` and I thought you must be weary of a correspondent , whose whole topic was complaint . '' 
`` You have been ill , Sarah , '' said I , taking her hand . 
`` And you have been afflicted , '' said she , tenderly pressing my hand in both of hers . 
The tone of her voice , and the recollection of my loss , operated powerfully on my sensibility ; we wept in unison . 
A pause of a few moments ensued , when she arose from her seat , put her work into the next room , stirred the fire , swept up the hearth , and going down stairs , returned with the tea kettle ; which , having placed over the fire , she prepared the tea things , toasted her muffins , and performed every little necessary office , with the uncomplaining meekness of a saint , and with the case of one who had been accustomed to such employments . 
As I looked at her with a mixture of admiration and pity , I could not but think , I had never seen her rise so superior , appear so interesting , as in these domestic avocations . 
I have seen her move in a drawing room with infinite grace ; I have seen her trip in the light mazes of a dance , with fascinating vivacity and ease : I have witnessed the elegance and propriety of her manners -- when seated at the head of her table , she has performed the honors of it to a numerous and splendid company ; but never did she appear so engaging to me , as when having finished her preparations , she said , `` Come , Anne , the tea and muffins are just as good now as they used to be , only the servant is not quite so handy . '' 
While we partook of the pleasant repast , she informed me that she had been in search of employment , and at last heard of something which she believed she should close with . 
I have made some particular inquiries concerning this Mrs. Bellamy , with whom Sarah is about to embark for an another kingdom ; I can not reconcile the idea to myself , that a tract of ocean will divide us ; that in distress or sickness I can not fly to her ; that contrary winds may detain her letters , even should she write on all occasions ; but even this she will not promise . 
`` I will inform you of my health , '' said she , `` but I shall not plague you with all the little cross incidents which may occur , while I am acting in my double capacity of humble toad eater to grandmamma , and madam governanteto little darling . 
You flattered me in your last , with the hope of my seeing you in London ; it will , I assure you , be a very high gratification ; but as you mention January for the time of your proposed visit , I fear Sarah will long ere that have been the inhabitant of our sister island for some weeks , as she thinks of departing the latter end of October . 
I was unacquainted with the writing , yet it seemed as if I had seen it somewhere before , though I could form no idea whose it was ; I broke the seal , and found the two inclosed letters ; I send you the insulting originals , for I have not patience to transcribe them ; you see the situation they are in , I have wet them with indignant tears ; have trampled them under my feet ; I would have torn the infamous scrawls to atoms , and scattered them to the winds of heaven , or given them to the devouring flames , but I preserved them that you may see how low , how very low , your poor Sarah is fallen . 
I then flattered myself that Sarah , in compliance with my advice , was on her way home ; but a month passed on , and still no intelligeace arriving , I requested Mr. Lewis , the banker above-mentioned , to write to his friend , and beg him to call on Mrs. Bellamy , and make inquiry concerning her , as I did not think it improbable that curiosity might induce her to trace out my poor , deserted friend , and endeavour to prevail on her to return ; or , by sending the insinuating marquis , -LRB- for such by his letter I am convinced he is , -RRB- to use all his arts in order to reduce Sarah to the degraded level with herself . 
Through this man I entertained a faint hope that I might discover where she was , and have the superlative felicity of relieving her necessities , administering to her comfort , and cheering her heart , by convincing her my friendship was undeviating , my esteem undiminished , my heart as warmly attached as ever . 
Mr. Lewis , though an excellent man , could not feel interested as I did in the fate of Sarah , and neglected writing for above a week ; after his letter was gone , it was three weeks before he received an answer ; and when he did , it almost deprived me of my reason . 
The young woman replied , that Mrs. O'Donnell 's John had said , he saw her a few days since go into a house in an alley at the lower end of the town . 
I learnt that about two months since , Mrs. Darnley had come to this house and taken a lodging -- she did not go by the name of Darnley , but Beetham ; and the woman discovered her real name by a pocket handkerchief she dropped one day in taking some linen from her trunk , on which Sarah Darnley was marked at full length . 
I speak not as a woman only , but as a child of frailty ; for such are all the sons and daughters of Adam In such a situation , I would not answer for the steadiness even of my virtuous Sarah . 
Did I require any thing to convince me that she is not the depraved being they have represented her , the sincerity of her replies to the woman who interrogated her about her handkerchief , would be a sufficient proof , that she retained her native singleness of heart ; which , to me , was ever the most interesting trait in her character . 
Before she could become abandoned , she would have learnt to dissemble . 
What can I do ? 
I have requested Mr. Lewis to write to his friend once more ; in the mean time , I am determined , however eccentric you may think the step , to write to the marquis of H -- , and endeavor to interest him in her behalf ; a man of his rank has great influence in such a city as Dublin ; and if he has the smallest spark of honor , he will exert himself to restore to her friends , a woman whom his insulting overtures forced to seek shelter in poverty and shame , from the solicitations of vice , and the dread of ignominy . 
Indeed , my lord , you will never have cause to repent any interference in her behalf ; or any assistance you may give her ; for in serving Sarah Darnley , you are serving the cause of virtue . 
said she , `` it seems to be my lot to fall in with the admirers of the eccentric Sarah . '' 
`` Sarah ! 
Sarah ! 
what -- here is another lover I suppose , '' said she , laughing ; `` who would have thought the homely Sarah would ever have become so formidable ? '' 
said the young officer with increased vehemence . 
`` Oh , I dare not call her by her right name , '' said she , scornfully , `` my lord H -- will never forgive me if I do ; but to satisfy you , and that you may be convinced , whether it is your Sarah or not , I will shew you her picture , which I stole one evening in sport from a lover of mine , and he never after demanded it , to let me see how indifferent he was to the original . '' 
He took it -- he gazed on it -- he clasped it in his hands , and elevated them towards heaven with a look of indescribable anguish -- exclaimed , `` Oh God ! 
Dear , unhappy Sarah , well might you neglect to answer my letters . 
He inserted an advertisement in the papers , couched in such terms , as if it fell into her hands , and she wished to return to her friends , she could not but understand it ; yet so delicate as not to wound her feelings by making her situation a topic for public animadversion . 
But before either an answer could arrive to the letter , or any good effect arise from the latter expedient , his ship was ordered away -- and he departed , earnestly conjuring me to continue my endeavors to find and succour Mrs. Darnley , and have her conveyed in safety to England , where he expected to be in the course of a few months . 
The conduct of Bellamy is most detestable ; I was impatient for her return , that I might reproach her as she deserved , and oblige her to write to Darnley and unsay all she had asserted ; nay , despicable as the wretch appears to me , I had resolved to write to him myself , and defend his aspersed wife to the utmost of my power ; but upon reflection , I feared , as I had not discovered her retreat , and could not account for her conduct in thus keeping herself concealed , I might , by interference , when I could not fully vindicate , injure rather than serve her . 
`` Does Sarah Darnley lodge here ? '' 
`` She admits no male visitors , '' replied the woman , `` especially at this time of night . '' 
`` I must see her , '' said he , with vehemence , `` I have reasons for supposing her my sister ; is not her name Sarah ? '' 
A shriek from the parlor within , announced that we were overheard ; and in an instant , a female rushed by the mistress of the house , and throwing herself into the arms of Mr. Lewis , fainted -- It was Mrs. Darnley herself . 
I became impatient for the arrival of Sarah ; moments appeared hours , hours days , and days weeks . 
Think then , by this mode of computation , what an immense period a whole fortnight must have appeared ; for so long it was before I embraced my friend ; and when she did come , to pale , so changed was she , that my heart bled as I contemplated her depressed countenance . 
Frederic Lewis could only deliver her in safety to me , and set off the next morning to join his ship which had arrived at Plymouth . 
He had in the course of his inquiries , heard so many things to her disadvantage , that even his faith in her virtue began to be staggered , and he resolved to watch and ascertain who visited her , and by what means she was supported . 
Resolved , should he find her involved in shame and guilt , to write to her , give her the means of returning to England , but to see her no more . 
He had placed himself in the long passage for this purpose but a few minutes , when lord H -- entered , and he immediately concluded him to have been the original seducer , and present supporter of his sister ; notwithstanding all his pretended anxiety . 
`` I will own to you , my brother , that I never found any great portion of felicity in my union with Mr. Darnley ; yet when I entered into marriage with him , I resolved , to the utmost of my abilities , to perform the duties incumbent on the sacred obligation . 
Frederic would have combatted her opinion , but it was useless ; all he could obtain , was a promise that she would no farther seek him , than to acquaint him with her return , and then act as circumstances should direct . 
She has accordingly written a note , which to-morrow I shall dispatch to him . 
I hardly know whether to censure or applaud her resolution . 
She has suffered greatly both with him , and from him ; perhaps , should any means of their living in some degree of ease and plenty offer , they may taste more happiness than has yet fallen to their portion . 
He , so long abridged of the comforts of domestic regularity , and the pleasures which must arise from the society of a good humored , rational companion , will , I should think , hear of her return with delight , and invite her home with the ardor of a lover long separated from his mistress . 
My dear Sarah has kept a regular journal , if so it can be called , of every occurrence which took place , from her quitting Mrs. Bellamy 's to the time of her meeting Frederic . 
It was addressed to me , with a design should any event have put a period to her existence , it might have been transmitted to me , and have justified her to her father , should he ever return , or her brother , whom at that time she had but little hope of seeing again so soon . 
I have obtained leave to send it to you ; it will explain many circumstances which at present appear problematical , and will , I think , greatly interest your feelings . 
When you have perused , you will be so good as to return it by the next post , as every thing which bears the impression of Sarah 's hand is valuable to me . 
Sarah ` sJournal from the time she left Mrs. Bellamy 's , to the period of her meeting her brother . 
-LSB- This Journal is without date , from the begining to the end , but as the incidents refer to some already related , the reader can easily , by comparing them , ascertain the period when they took place . -RSB- 
She at length laid her hand on a pocket handkerchief , which was marked with my name at full length . 
She immediately replied hastily , `` Oh ! 
then you are a married woman , '' and in a few moments inundated mo with so many questions , answering some of them herself , according to her own vague conclusions , and interlarding all with so many old adages and wise sayings about prudence and virtue , withal intimating that she guessed I was a frail one , when I came there in such a hurry , and that when a woman has once ventured ancle deep , she may as well go on , for it was impossible to go back , I stood petrified at her effrontery : mistaking my silent astonishment for attention , she thus proceeded : `` I suppose you thought now that we should have known nothing about you , but you had not been here three days , before I heard the whole story -- how you have been living with madam Bellamy , and every body knows what she is -- but for my part , I wonder you treated lord what d'ye call 'em there so rudely -- I dare say he would be very generous to you , and there is such a thing as overstanding one 's market . '' 
`` I came , '' said I , advancing into the room , `` to request the payment of the money . '' 
I INFORMED you in my last , that Sarah had written to her husband , to announce to him her arrival in England ; he returned no answer , andIbegan to think all connexion between them was forever at an end ; indeed , I did not much regret it , only as it respected her own ideas of propriety , which led her to wish to see him , that she might clear up all misconceptions , which aspersed as her character has been , was absolutely necessary to be done ; though , until she saw him , and knew exactly what had been said by that arch fiend Bellamy , or whether she had really written at all or not ; to attempt an explanation before she was accused , was to acknowledge a consciousness of error . 
The evening our poor Sarah was driven from the door of the unfeeling Conolly , O`Donnell , who had been to pay his ancient friend a visit , and was passing just as she was on the steps entreating admission , he heard the name of Bellamy , and stopped ; a few moments attention to the scene convinced him Sarah was in great distress , and from his knowledge of the persons she had been among , he thought it more than probable , she might be an innocent , ill used woman . 
He saw her sink down upon the timber , and running hastily back to Peggy , thus addressed her : -- `` Good Peggy , go directly into the lane ; there is a poor creature in distress . 
`` I am commissioned by Mr. Darnley to inquire whether you , madam , -LRB- turning to Sarah -RRB- were , during that period , ac uainted with Mr. O`Donnell ? '' 
Sarah arose from her seat . 
`` I will go , '' said she ; `` lead me to him , sir ; I will go , and perform my duty in attending him ; if , when he recovers , he bids me leave him , I can return again to the only friend fortune has left me , and she will not refuse to receive me . '' 
She held out her hand to me ; the tears gushed from her eyes , and hastily throwing on her bonnet and cloak , the gentleman led her to a coach , leaving me a card where I might find her , and they drove off . 
I have heard from her every day since ; Darnley yet continues ill , but is , I believe , now out of danger . 
I am to see her to-day , and will write again soon . 
COMFORT seems again to dawn on our good Sarah ; her tender assiduity , her care , and unremitting watchfulness , have been the means in the hands of an all powerful God , of restoring Darnley to health . 
They also have awakened in his heart a degree of that affection he once professed so ardently to feel for her , and it certainly is more likely to be permanent , since what he experienced for her at the time of their union , was the effervescence of youthful passion ; but the present sentiment is softened by gratitude , and founded on esteem . 
The old gentleman who came to inform Sarah of her husband 's illness , is a Mr. Vaughan , a half pay officer , who has a wife and several children to maintain , and a very confined income to do it with ; he was in service at the commencement of the war , but receiving a wound , returned home , and his health has since been in so precarious a state , as to prevent his again joining his regiment , which continued still abroad . 
He soon gained Darnley 's confidence ; he imparted to this new friend , the doubts which had arisen in his mind concerning his wife 's conduct , during her absence from him ; shewed him the letter Bellamy had written to him , and which accused poor Sarah of almost every vice . 
Vaughan inquired if he ever had any reason to suspect her while she was with him ; what her general conduct and principles were , and learnt that though volatile and improvident in many things , she cherished the strictest principles of virtue and religion , and utter abhorrence of vice ; that while herself by look , by word , or action , never in her gayest and most thoughtless moments transgressed the laws of female propriety , she was ever ready to overlook the faults of others , pity their errors and relieve their distresses , though the natural consequence of those errors . 
He concluded , that it was not very probable that such a woman would become all at once abandoned to vice and profligacy . 
Darnley was inclined to do this , and would actually have put his design into execution , when he received her letter , written the day after her being received into the dwelling of Peggy McLean , but the very day in which he formed this resolution , another diabolical epistle arrived ; not from Mrs. Bellamy as before , but from Jessey Romain , aliasRyan ; who , though unacquainted with the place of his residence , rather than not have a chance to traduce his innocent wife , directed her letter to a coffee house in the city , where she knew , if he was in London , he would certainly find it , as he seldom passed a day without calling there . 
The consequence was , that when Sarah wrote to inform him of her arrival in England , he flew into a violent paroxysm of rage , and swore he would never see her again . 
But when from his fall , he found a long and painful confinement would most likely be the consequence , nay , perhaps the loss of life would follow , the good man renewed his solicitations that he would see and be reconciled to his wife . 
Mr. Vaughan found the heat of his passion was subsided , and imagined he would be even glad to find she had been traduced ; he therefore resolved himself to see her , to question her concerning the subject of the information officiously given by Ryan and Bellamy , and draw his conclusions from the manner in which she should receive and reply to his questions . 
Her frankness charmed him , and the readiness , even to eagerness , which she shewed to go immediately and attend her husband , prejudiced him highly in her favor . 
`` Who , Sarah , '' said he , `` where is she ? '' 
`` I am grieved for your accident , and wish it may be in my power , by performing every kind office , to alleviate your sufferings and accelerate your recovery . '' 
`` Do you wish it , Sarah ? '' 
`` No , Sarah , I believe you would not assert what you did not feel . 
Darnley awaits the answer of these letters with anxiety ; I am equally impatient with him , but my impatience proceeds from a wish to witness the triumph of my beloved Sarah , and in the pleasure that event would confer , I am sure you will partake . 
I really hope my dear Sarah has her happiest days yet to come ; and that they will commence the moment she is again comfortably settled in a home of her own . 
Darnley , apparently delighted with the reconciliation which has taken place , seemed only uneasy that his income was so contracted as not to allow him to procure lodgings and attendants such as he thought becoming his wife . 
This vanity still predominates in him ; but Sarah 's taste for shew and expense is entirely quenched ; and she sat about purchasing some plain furniture for two small rooms with that complacent cheerfulness which evinced her contented mind . 
But before they were settled , or had fixed on any apartments to remove to , a gentlemen one morning called on Darnley , bringing a letter from the marquis of H -- , to this effect : `` That the esteem Mrs. Darnley 's conduct had impressed on his mind , had made him take an interest in whatever concerned her happiness ; that he had been informed that misfortune had rendered their situation perplexing in regard to pecuniary circumstances , and being sensible that any offer of assistance in the form of benevolence would be rejected , he had taken the liberty to mention Mr Darnley to a gentleman who wanted a steward to superintend his estates in England , which were extensive ; he being obliged from a public employment to reside in Ireland , of which he was a native ; that the steward would be expected to reside on the principal estate , which was in Warwickshire ; that a neat house was provided for his family within a few miles of the town of Warwick ; that the salary was three hundred pounds a year , and half a year would be paid in advance on his entering on the employment ; which he might do immediately , should he accept the offer ; that there were two rooms which had been fitted up at the mansion house for an aged relation , who had ended her life there ; and as the furniture of those rooms was entirely useless to the owner , Mrs. Darnley was requested to accept of it as it might answer until she could acommodate herself with something better . '' 
This was the purport of the letter , but you must have seen it , to form a just idea of the delicacy which ran through the whole ; the style was elegant , and every sentence expressed , that though addressed to her husband , it was expected to meet the eye of Sarah ; that he considered her as a superior and highly respectable woman , and was at once studious to avoid wounding her delicacy or sensibility . 
The gentleman who brought the letter was empowered to engage with Darnley , and advance the money . 
It will be particularly pleasing to Sarah to reside in the country ; and if there should be a few rational , well informed persons in her vicinity , I am certain she will feel no regret at being obliged to relinquish the gaiety of a town life . 
I hope Darnley will keep away from Warwick , as he will not be so certain to meet with companions likely to draw him into his former follies in a country village , as in a populous town . 
But however Sarah may have erred heretofore in her conduct in regard to economy , and in not endeavoring to conceal her indifference towards him ; she at least ever has practised , and will continue still , the needful virtue of PATIENCE . 
I say needful , because there is no passing through life with any degree of comfort without a pretty good share of it ; and in the married state , I believe a double portion is absolutely necessary . 
Darnley answered in the affirmative , and when the young man left the room , said , `` This looks well , Sarah ; it looks as if Sir Richard meant to have us respected . '' 
An extract from one of these , which appears to have been written in the third year of Sarah 's residence at Woodlands , is particularly interesting , and therefore it is given here . 
`` I have , since I have been with my dear Sarah , this autumn , found her particularly gloomy and depressed . 
Darnley 's circumstances are again embarrassed , and it is with the utmost difficulty she can obtain from him money for housekeeping ; and whenever necessity obliges her to make a demand , he flies into such passions , that terrified , she will submit to every difficulty , by running bills with those who will give her longest credit , and who must necessarily repay their courtesy by advancing the price , and thus by the demands being larger than he had expected , he seems to think he has reason on his side , when he scolds and complains at what he chooses to term extravagance . 
But to return to Sarah . 
As her father and Darnley go frequently to Warwick and stay several days together , I asked her if he had long accustomed himself to be thus estranged from home . 
She answered with a sigh , Yes , that she did not possess the art of making his home agreeable to him , and to confess a truth , were it not for his reputation 's sake , which suffered from the company he associated with , she was happier when he was away , than when he was at home . 
`` We were not made , '' said she , `` to constitute each other 's happiness ; our minds , our habits , our pursuits are totally dissimilar , and though we are chained to the oar , for the life of one of us , we have never as yet made the discovery of any circumstance that might lighten the weight of the fetter , or prevent its galling us even to the quick . '' 
asked Sarah . 
`` Yes , it was put here to nurse thirteen months ago , but I never saw the color of the woman 's money since she brought it , and now she is gone nobody knows where . 
She was going on , but I perceived that Sarah changed color ; first crimson red , then ashly pale , then red again ; therefore interrupted the woman 's loquacity ; but Sarah had heard enough to awaken curiosity . 
`` Why , Mr What 's - his-name there , Sir Richard 's steward ; he brought a fine madam they say , from Warwick , and she and an old woman lived three or four months in this here house , and here this boy was born , and here she stayed until she was tired of him , or he of her , and so she went off ; I wish she had taken her brat with her . '' 
`` Will you do the same , my dear Sarah ? '' 
`` It may be unlucky , '' said Sarah , gravely , `` as far as it concerns ourselves , but I trust it will prove most lucky to a helpless , unprotected being , who , but for this shower , I should never perhaps have known was in existence . '' 
`` Do not put yourself in a passion , George , '' said she calmly , `` I do not mean to have any disagreement about it ; the child is neglected , and will either pevish in its infancy , or grow up to be a burthen to itself and a nuisance to society , unless those whose duty it is to provide for its maintenance and education , snatch it from so deplorable a fate . 
`` You may take the child , and its mother , and the nurse , and all her dirty brats , and all go to -- together , so as I hear nothing more of you . '' 
He rang the bell very deliberately , and with the most perfect appearance of composure bade the servant clear the table ; then turning to me , said , `` As Sarah is so indisposed , I will not disturb her to-night ; perhaps you will like to take my place ; '' then bidding the servant order a bed in one of the spare rooms to be got ready for him , he bade me good night . 
How my dear Sarah spent the night , may be easily imagined . 
However , in the morning she gave orders for the child to be brought home ; appointed a room as much out of the way as possible for a nursery , and hired a woman to take care of it . 
During this period , she was deprived of her friend Anne , and her mind became , to use her own expression , in a letter she addressed to her brother , `` dead to love and joy , '' and alive only to a sensation of peace which arose from a conviction of having , to the utmost , performed her duty . 
She was now at an age when every impulse of the soul is in full vigor , especially , in a well regulated mind ; for the senses at this time are more under the control of reason ; the heart selects its associates and pleasures with caution , and its choice is sanctioned by judgment . 
But Sarah , with a mind formed for all the gentle delights of love , friendship , and domestic happiness , had not one object on which to lavish its tenderness . 
A short letter which she addressed to her brother on his return from a six years station in America , from whence he had brought an amiable wife and two lovely children , will give a better picture of her mind , situation and feelings , than any transcript could possibly do . 
I am , dear sir , Thesincerity of Sarah 's dying declaration that `` even in thought she had never dishonored her husband , '' was confirmed by the confession of Mrs. Bellamy . 
Alas , poor Darnley , she then paid him with interest , all he had inflicted on the uncomplaining , unoffending Sarah From this account of our Heroine 's sufferings , let no one say , where then is the reward of virtue , if such a woman is not happy ? 
