Reginald has long wished I know to see this captivating Lady Susan , & we shall depend on his joining our party soon . 
Well my dear Reginald , I have seen this dangerous creature , & must give you some description of her , tho ' I hope you will soon be able to form your own judgement . 
I have disconcerted him already by my calm reserve ; & it shall be my endeavour to humble the Pride of these self-important De Courcies still lower , to convince Mrs Vernon that her sisterly cautions have been bestowed in vain , & to persuade Reginald that she has scandalously belied me . 
My dear Mother You must not expect Reginald back again for some time . 
He desires me to tell you that the present open weather induces him to accept Mr Vernon 's invitation to prolong his stay in Sussex that they may have some hunting together . 
I will not disguise my sentiments on this change from you my dear Madam , tho ' I think you had better not communicate them to my Father , whose excessive anxiety about Reginald would subject him to an alarm which might seriously affect his health & spirits . 
What stronger proof of her dangerous abilities can be given , than this perversion of Reginald 's Judgement , which when he entered the house was so decidedly against her ? 
In his last letter he actually gave me some particulars of her behaviour at Langford , such as he received from a Gentleman who knew her perfectly well , which if true must raise abhorrence against her , & which Reginald himself was entirely disposed to credit . 
His opinion of her I am sure , was as low as of any Woman in England , & when he first came it was evident that he considered her as one entitled neither to Delicacy nor respect , & that he felt she would be delighted with the attentions of any Man inclined to flirt with her . 
Her behaviour I confess has been calculated to do away such an idea , I have not detected the smallest impropriety in it , -- nothing of vanity , of pretension , of Levity -- & she is altogether so attractive , that I should not wonder at his being delighted with her , had he known nothing of her previous to this personal acquaintance ; but against reason , against conviction , to be so well pleased with her as I am sure he is , does really astonish me . 
This tendency to excuse her conduct , or to forget it in the warmth of admiration vexes me ; & if I did not know that Reginald is too much at home at Churchill to need an invitation for lengthening his visit , I should regret Mr Vernon 's giving him any . 
I can not for a moment imagine that she has anything more serious in view , but it mortifies me to see a young Man of Reginald 's sense duped by her at all . 
Sir Reginald is very infirm , & not likely to stand in your way long . 
Reginald has a good figure , & is not unworthy the praise you have heard given him , but is still greatly inferior to our friend at Langford . 
I really grow quite uneasy my dearest Mother about Reginald , from witnessing the very rapid increase of Lady Susan 's influence . 
They are now on terms of the most particular friendship , frequently engaged in long conversations together , & she has contrived by the most artful coquetry to subdue his Judgement to her own purposes . 
I wish you could get Reginald home again , under any plausible pretence . 
He is not at all disposed to leave us , & I have given him as many hints of my Father 's precarious state of health , as common decency will allow me to do in my own house . 
Mr Smith 's account of her proceedings at Langford , where he accused her of having made Mr Manwaring & a young Man engaged to Miss Manwaring distractedly in love with her , which Reginald firmly beleived when he came to Churchill , is now he is persuaded only a scandalous invention . 
He has told me so in a warmth of manner which spoke his regret at having ever beleived the contrary himself . 
I always looked forward to her coming with uneasiness -- but very far was it , from originating in anxiety for Reginald . 
I know that young Men in general do not admit of any enquiry even from their nearest relations , into affairs of the heart ; but I hope my dear Reginald that you will be superior to such as allow nothing for a Father 's anxiety , & think themselves privileged to refuse him their confidence & slight his advice . 
My Years & increasing Infirmities make me very desirous my dear Reginald , of seeing you settled in the world . 
I am & c. Regd De Courcy . 
I had intended to write to Reginald myself , as soon as my eyes would let me , to point out as well as I could the danger of an intimate acquaintance with so artful a woman as Lady Susan , to a young Man of his age & high expectations . 
Whether it would have done any good , can never be settled now ; but I am excessively vexed that Sir Reginald should know anything of a matter which we foresaw would make him so uneasy . 
He caught all your fears the moment he had read your Letter , and I am sure has not had the business out of his head since ; he wrote by the same post to Reginald , a long letter full of it all , & particularly asking for an explanation of what he may have heard from Lady Susan to contradict the late shocking reports . 
His answer came this morning , which I shall enclose to you , as I think you will like to see it ; I wish it was more satisfactory , but it seems written with such a determination to think well of Lady Susan , that his assurances as to Marriage & c. , do not set my heart at ease . 
I say all I can however to satisfy your Father , & he is certainly less uneasy since Reginald 's letter . 
My dear Mother I return you Reginald 's letter , & rejoice with all my heart that my Father is made easy by it . 
Her Ladyship is comforting herself meanwhile by strolling along the Shrubbery with Reginald , calling forth all his tender feelings I suppose on this distressing occasion . 
She may be Reginald 's Wife . 
Reginald is so incensed against the poor silly Girl ! 
Surely it is not to Lady Susan 's credit that he should be so bitter against her daughter ; his idea of her must be drawn from the Mother 's description . 
Well , whatever may be his fate , we have the comfort of knowing that we have done our utmost to save him . 
Reginald is never easy unless we are by ourselves , & when the weather is tolerable , we pace the shrubbery for hours together . 
I like him on the whole very well , he is clever & has a good deal to say , but he is sometimes impertinent & troublesome . 
There is a sort of ridiculous delicacy about him which requires the fullest explanation of whatever he may have heard to my disadvantage , & is never satisfied till he thinks he has ascertained the beginning & end of everything . 
Manwaring is indeed beyond compare superior to Reginald -- superior in everything but the power of being with me . 
Poor Reginald was beyond measure concerned to see his fair friend in such distress , & watched her with so much tender solicitude that I , who occasionally caught her observing his countenance with exultation , was quite out of patience . 
the prospect from her window is not very instructive , for that room overlooks the Lawn you know with the Shrubbery on one side , where she may see her Mother walking for an hour together , in earnest conversation with Reginald . 
Yet Reginald still thinks Lady Susan the best of Mothers -- still condemns Frederica as a worthless girl ! 
He is convinced that her attempt to run away , proceeded from no justifiable cause , & had no provocation . 
I am sure I can not say that it had , but while Miss Summers declares that Miss Vernon shewed no sign of Obstinacy or Perverseness during her whole stay in Wigmore St till she was detected in this scheme , I can not so readily credit what Lady Susan has made him & wants to make me believe , that it was merely an impatience of restraint , & a desire of escaping from the tuition of Masters which brought on the plan of an elopement . 
Reginald , how is your Judgement enslaved ! 
He scarcely dares even allow her to be handsome , & when I speak of her beauty , replies only that her eyes have no Brilliancy . 
Sometimes he is sure that she is deficient in Understanding , & at others that her temper only is in fault . 
Reginald is only repeating after her Ladyship . 
Thoughtful & pensive in general her countenance always brightens with a smile when Reginald says anything amusing ; & let the subject be ever so serious that he may be conversing on , I am much mistaken if a syllable of his uttering , escape her . 
I want to make him sensible of all this , for we know the power of gratitude on such a heart as his ; & could Frederica 's artless affection detach him from her Mother , we might bless the day which brought her to Churchill . 
She is actually falling in love with Reginald De Courcy . 
I am not yet certain that Reginald sees what she is about ; nor is it of much consequence ; she is now an object of indifference to him , she would be one of contempt were he to understand her Emotions . 
Her beauty is much admired by the Vernons , but it has no effect on him . 
At that moment we were interrupted by a knock at the door ; it was Reginald , who came by Lady Susan 's direction to call Frederica down . 
`` It is Mr. De Courcy , said she , colouring violently , Mama has sent for me , & I must go . '' 
The poor girl sat all this time without opening her lips ; her eyes cast down , & her colour varying every instant , while Reginald observed all that passed , in perfect silence . 
As for Reginald , I beleive he does not know what to make of the matter . 
The Girl , whose heart can distinguish Reginald De Courcy , deserves , however he may slight her , a better fate than to be Sir James Martin 's wife . 
I have for some time been more particularly resolved on the Match , from seeing the rapid increase of her affection for Reginald , & from not feeling perfectly secure that a knowledge of that affection might not in the end awaken a return . 
It is true that Reginald had not in any degree grown cool towards me ; but yet he had lately mentioned Frederica spontaneously & unnecessarily , & once had said something in praise of her person . 
He was all astonishment at the appearance of my visitor ; and at first observed Sir James with an attention which I was pleased to see not unmixed with jealousy ; but unluckily it was impossible for me really to torment him , as Sir James tho ' extremely gallant to me , very soon made the whole party understand that his heart was devoted to my daughter . 
I had no great difficulty in convincing De Courcy when we were alone , that I was perfectly justified , all things considered , in desiring the match ; & the whole business seemed most comfortably arranged . 
Reginald came this morning into my Dressing room , with a very unusual solemnity of countenance , & after some preface informed me in so many words , that he wished to reason with me on the Impropriety & Unkindness of allowing Sir James Martin to address my Daughter , contrary to her inclination . 
I am so much agitated by Delight that I can scarcely hold a pen , but am determined to send you a few lines by James , that you may have some explanation of what must so greatly astonish you , as that Reginald should be returning to Parklands . 
I concluded of course that she & Reginald had been quarrelling , & looked with anxious curiosity for a confirmation of my beleif in her face . 
I trust however my dear Mother , that we have no reason to fear an alteration of his present plan ; things have gone too far . 
What delight will be yours in seeing him again , in seeing him still worthy your Esteem , still capable of forming your Happiness ! 
The quarrel between Lady Susan & Reginald is made up , & we are all as we were before . 
Reginald was all but gone ; his horse was ordered , & almost brought to the door ! 
For half an hour I was in momentary expectation of his departure . 
Your applying however to Reginald can be productive only of Good to all parties . 
At that moment , how great was my astonishment at seeing Reginald come out of Lady Susan 's Dressing room . 
His confusion on seeing me was very evident . 
Reginald was glad to get away , & I went to Lady Susan ; curious indeed to hear her account of it . 
If you think your daughter at all attached to Reginald , her objecting to Sir James could not less deserve to be attended to , than if the cause of her objecting had been a consciousness of his folly . 
This Reginald has a proud spirit of his own ! 
I shall not easily forgive him I assure you . 
He was actually on the point of leaving Churchill ! 
It 's effect on Reginald justifies some portion of vanity , for it was no less favourable than instantaneous . 
how delightful it was , to watch the variations of his Countenance while I spoke , to see the struggle between returning Tenderness & the remains of Displeasure . 
Not that I would envy him their possession , nor would for the world have such myself , but they are very convenient when one wishes to influence the passions of another . 
And yet this Reginald , whom a very few words from me softened at once into the utmost submission , & rendered more tractable , more attached , more devoted than ever , would have left me in the first angry swelling of his proud heart , without deigning to seek an explanation ! 
Humbled as he now is , I can not forgive him such an instance of Pride ; & am doubtful whether I ought not to punish him , by dismissing him at once after this our reconciliation , or by marrying & teizing him for ever . 
I must punish Frederica , & pretty severely too , for her application to Reginald ; I must punish him for receiving it so favourably , & for the rest of his conduct . 
I must torment my Sister-in-law for the insolent triumph of her Look & Manner since Sir James has been dismissed -- for in reconciling Reginald to me , I was not able to save that ill-fated young Man -- & I must make myself amends for the humiliations to which I have stooped within these few days . 
Her idle Love for Reginald too ; it is surely my duty to discourage such romantic nonsense . 
When my own will is effected , contrary to his , I shall have some credit in being on good terms with Reginald , which at present in fact I have not , for tho ' he is still in my power , I have given up the very article by which our quarrel was produced , & at best , the honour of victory is doubtful . 
He is absolutely miserable about you , & jealous to such a degree of De Courcy , that it would be highly unadvisable for them to meet at present ; & yet if you do not allow him to see you here , I can not answer for his not committing some great imprudence -- such as going to Churchill for instance , which would be dreadful . 
Besides , if you take my advice , & resolve to marry De Courcy , it will be indispensably necessary for you to get Manwaring out of the way , & you only can have influence enough to send him back to his wife . 
This letter my dear Mother , will be brought you by Reginald . 
His long visit is about to be concluded at last , but I fear the separation takes place too late to do us any good . 
in all probability , be with Reginald -- & that would be the greatest evil of all . 
I could not help asking Reginald if he intended being in Town this winter , as soon as I found that her Ladyship 's steps would be bent thither ; and tho ' he professed himself quite undetermined , there there was a something in his Look and voice as he spoke , which contradicted his words . 
If he leaves you soon for London , everything will be concluded . 
I am pleased to find that my Letter had so much effect on you , & that De Courcy is certainly your own . 
At Bath , his old Aunts would have nursed him , but here it all falls upon me -- & he bears pain with such patience that I have not the common excuse for losing my temper . 
I will not dissemble what real pleasure his sight afforded me , nor how strongly I felt the contrast between his person & manners , & those of Reginald , to the infinite disadvantage of the latter . 
For an hour or two , I was even stagger 'd in my resolution of marrying him -- & tho ' this was too idle & nonsensical an idea to remain long on my mind , I do not feel very eager for the conclusion of my Marriage , or look forward with much impatience to the time when Reginald according to our agreement is to be in Town . 
I shall probably put off his arrival , under some pretence or other . 
He must not come till Manwaring is gone . 
If the old Man would die , I might not hesitate ; but a state of dependance on the caprice of Sir Reginald , will not suit the freedom of my spirit ; & if I resolve to wait for that event , I shall have excuse enough at present , in having been scarcely ten months a Widow . 
I have not given Manwaring any hint of my intention -- or allowed him to consider my acquaintance with Reginald as more than the commonest flirtation ; & he is tolerably appeased . 
Upper Seymour St. My dear Friend , That tormenting creature Reginald is here . 
My Letter , which was intended to keep him longer in the Country , has hastened him to Town . 
Much as I wish him away however , I can not help being pleased with such a proof of attachment . 
He is devoted to me , heart & soul . 
He will carry this note himself , which is to serve as an Introduction to you , with whom he longs to be acquainted . 
Allow him to spend the Evening with you , that I may be in no danger of his returning here . 
I have told him that I am not quite well , & must be alone -- & should he call again there might be confusion , for it is impossible to be sure of servants . 
Keep him therefore I entreat you in Edward St. You will not find him a heavy companion , & I allow you to flirt with him as much as you like . 
Mrs Manwaring had that instant entered the House , & forced herself into her Guardian 's presence , tho ' I did not know a syllable of it till afterwards , for I was out when both she & Reginald came , or I would have sent him away at all events ; but she was shut up with Mr Johnson , while he waited in the Drawing room for me . 
All is by this time known to De Courcy , who is now alone with Mr Johnson . 
Mr Johnson has for some time suspected De Courcy of intending to marry you , & would speak with him alone , as soon as he knew him to be in the House . 
Depend upon it , I can make my own story good with Reginald . 
Manwaring is just gone ; he brought me the news of his wife 's arrival . 
Reginald will be a little enraged at first , but by Tomorrow 's Dinner , everything will be well again . 
Reginald , you agitate me beyond expression . 
I had almost forgot to give you my opinion of De Courcy , I am really delighted with him , he is full as handsome I think as Manwaring , & with such an open , goodhumoured Countenance that one can not help loving him at first sight . 
Your Husband I abhor -- Reginald I despise -- & I am secure of never seeing either again . 
I am now satisfied that I never could have brought myself to marry Reginald ; & am equally determined that Frederica never shall . 
My dear Catherine I have charming news for you , & if I had not sent off my Letter this morning , you might have been spared the vexation of knowing of Reginald 's being gone to Town , for he is returned , Reginald is returned , not to ask our consent to his marrying Lady Susan , but to tell us that they are parted forever ! 
He has been only an hour in the House , & I have not been able to learn particulars , for he is so very low , that I have not the heart to ask questions ; but I hope we shall soon know all . 
This is the most joyful hour he has ever given us , since the day of his birth . 
I hope nothing will make it inconvenient to Mr Vernon , & pray bring all my Grand Children , & your dear Neice is included of course ; I long to see her . 
It has been a sad heavy winter hitherto , without Reginald , & seeing nobody from Churchill ; I never found the season so dreary before , but this happy meeting will make us young again . 
Frederica runs much in my thoughts , & when Reginald has recovered his usual good spirits , -LRB- as I trust he soon will -RRB- we will try to rob him of his heart once more , & I am full of hopes of seeing their hands joined at no great distance . 
And Reginald really with you ! 
My surprise is the greater , because on Wednesday , the very day of his coming to Parklands , we had a most unexpected & unwelcome visit form Lady Susan , looking all chearfulness & good humour , & seeming more as if she were to marry him when she got back to Town , than as if parted from him for ever . 
Reginald may not be in Town again by that time ! 
No remembrance of Reginald , no consciousness of Guilt , gave one look of embarrassment . 
Frederica was therefore fixed in the family of her Uncle & Aunt , till such time as Reginald De Courcy could be talked , flattered & finessed into an affection for her -- which , allowing leisure for the conquest of his attachment to her Mother , for his abjuring all future attachments & detesting the Sex , might be reasonably looked for in the course of a Twelvemonth . 
Three Months might have done it in general , but Reginald 's feelings were no less lasting than lively . 
