No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy , would have supposed her born to be an heroine . 
Her situation in life , the character of her father and mother , her own person and disposition , were all equally against her . 
Her father was a clergyman , without being neglected , or poor , and a very respectable man , though his name was Richard -- and he had never been handsome . 
Her mother was a woman of useful plain sense , with a good temper , and , what is more remarkable , with a good constitution . 
She had three sons before Catherine was born ; and instead of dying in bringing the latter into the world , as any body might expect , she still lived on -- lived to have six children more -- to see them growing up around her , and to enjoy excellent health herself . 
A family of ten children will be always called a fine family , where there are heads and arms and legs enough for the number ; but the Morlands had little other right to the word , for they were in general very plain , and Catherine , for many years of her life , as plain as any . 
She had a thin awkward figure , a sallow skin without colour , dark lank hair , and strong features ; -- so much for her person ; -- and not less unpropitious for heroism seemed her mind . 
She was fond of all boys ' plays , and greatly preferred cricket not merely to dolls , but to the more heroic enjoyments of infancy , nursing a dormouse , feeding a canary-bird , or watering a rose-bush . 
Indeed she had no taste for a garden ; and if she gathered flowers at all , it was chiefly for the pleasure of mischief -- at least so it was conjectured from her always preferring those which she was forbidden to take . 
-- Such were her propensities -- her abilities were quite as extraordinary . 
She never could learn or understand any thing before she was taught ; and sometimes not even then , for she was often inattentive , and occasionally stupid . 
Her mother was three months in teaching her only to repeat the `` Beggar 's Petition ; '' and after all , her next sister , Sally , could say it better than she did . 
Not that Catherine was always stupid , -- by no means ; she learnt the fable of `` The Hare and many Friends , '' as quickly as any girl in England . 
Her mother wished her to learn music ; and Catherine was sure she should like it , for she was very fond of tinkling the keys of the old forlorn spinnet ; so , at eight years old she began . 
She learnt a year , and could not bear it ; -- and Mrs. Morland , who did not insist on her daughters being accomplished in spite of incapacity or distaste , allowed her to leave off . 
The day which dismissed the music-master was one of the happiest of Catherine 's life . 
Her taste for drawing was not superior ; though whenever she could obtain the outside of a letter from her mother , or seize upon any other odd piece of paper , she did what she could in that way , by drawing houses and trees , hens and chickens , all very much like one another . 
-- Writing and accounts she was taught by her father ; French by her mother : her proficiency in either was not remarkable , and she shirked her lessons in both whenever she could . 
-- for with all these symptoms of profligacy at ten years old , she had neither a bad heart nor a bad temper ; was seldom stubborn , scarcely ever quarrelsome , and very kind to the little ones , with few interruptions of tyranny ; she was moreover noisy and wild , hated confinement and cleanliness , and loved nothing so well in the world as rolling down the green slope at the back of the house . 
Such was Catherine Morland at ten . 
At fifteen , appearances were mending ; she began to curl her hair and long for balls ; her complexion improved , her features were softened by plumpness and colour , her eyes gained more animation , and her figure more consequence . 
Her love of dirt gave way to an inclination for finery , and she grew clean as she grew smart ; she had now the pleasure of sometimes hearing her father and mother remark on her personal improvement . 
`` Catherine grows quite a good-looking girl , -- she is almost pretty to day , '' were words which caught her ears now and then ; and how welcome were the sounds ! 
Mrs. Morland was a very good woman , and wished to see her children every thing they ought to be ; but her time was so much occupied in lying-in and teaching the little ones , that her elder daughters were inevitably left to shift for themselves ; and it was not very wonderful that Catherine , who had by nature nothing heroic about her , should prefer cricket , base ball , riding on horseback , and running about the country at the age of fourteen , to books -- or at least books of information -- for , provided that nothing like useful knowledge could be gained from them , provided they were all story and no reflection , she had never any objection to books at all . 
But from fifteen to seventeen she was in training for a heroine ; she read all such works as heroines must read to supply their memories with those quotations which are so serviceable and so soothing in the vicissitudes of their eventful lives . 
From Pope , she learnt to censure those who `` bear about the mockery of woe . '' 
And from Shakspeare she gained a great store of information -- amongst the rest , that -- `` Trifles light as air , Are , to the jealous , confirmation strong , As proofs of Holy Writ . '' 
Mr. and Mrs. Morland were all compliance , and Catherine all happiness . 
In addition to what has been already said of Catherine Morland 's personal and mental endowments , when about to be launched into all the difficulties and dangers of a six weeks ' residence in Bath , it may be stated , for the reader 's more certain information , lest the following pages should otherwise fail of giving any idea of what her character is meant to be ; that her heart was affectionate , her disposition cheerful and open , without conceit or affectation of any kind -- her manners just removed from the awkwardness and shyness of a girl ; her person pleasing , and , when in good looks , pretty -- and her mind about as ignorant and uninformed as the female mind at seventeen usually is . 
A thousand alarming presentiments of evil to her beloved Catherine from this terrific separation must oppress her heart with sadness , and drown her in tears for the last day or two of their being together ; and advice of the most important and applicable nature must of course flow from her wise lips in their parting conference in her closet . 
`` I beg , Catherine , you will always wrap yourself up very warm about the throat , when you come from the Rooms at night ; and I wish you would try to keep some account of the money you spend ; -- I will give you this little book on purpose . '' 
It is remarkable , however , that she neither insisted on Catherine 's writing by every post , nor exacted her promise of transmitting the character of every new acquaintance , nor a detail of every interesting conversation that Bath might produce . 
Catherine was all eager delight ; -- her eyes were here , there , every where , as they approached its fine and striking environs , and afterwards drove through those streets which conducted them to the hotel . 
She was come to be happy , and she felt happy already . 
It is now expedient to give some description of Mrs. Allen , that the reader may be able to judge , in what manner her actions will hereafter tend to promote the general distress of the work , and how she will , probably , contribute to reduce poor Catherine to all the desperate wretchedness of which a last volume is capable -- whether by her imprudence , vulgarity , or jealousy -- whether by intercepting her letters , ruining her character , or turning her out of doors . 
Catherine too made some purchases herself , and when all these matters were arranged , the important evening came which was to usher her into the Upper Rooms . 
Her hair was cut and dressed by the best hand , her clothes put on with care , and both Mrs. Allen and her maid declared she looked quite as she should do . 
With such encouragement , Catherine hoped at least to pass uncensured through the crowd . 
As for admiration , it was always very welcome when it came , but she did not depend on it . 
With more care for the safety of her new gown than for the comfort of her protegée , Mrs. Allen made her way through the throng of men by the door , as swiftly as the necessary caution would allow ; Catherine , however , kept close at her side , and linked her arm too firmly within her friend 's to be torn asunder by any common effort of a struggling assembly . 
But to her utter amazement she found that to proceed along the room was by no means the way to disengage themselves from the crowd ; it seemed rather to increase as they went on , whereas she had imagined that when once fairly within the door , they should easily find seats and be able to watch the dances with perfect convenience . 
For some time her young friend felt obliged to her for these wishes ; but they were repeated so often , and proved so totally ineffectual , that Catherine grew tired at last , and would thank her no more . 
Catherine began to feel something of disappointment -- she was tired of being continually pressed against by people , the generality of whose faces possessed nothing to interest , and with all of whom she was so wholly unacquainted , that she could not relieve the irksomeness of imprisonment by the exchange of a syllable with any of her fellow captives ; and when at last arrived in the tea-room , she felt yet more the awkwardness of having no party to join , no acquaintance to claim , no gentleman to assist them . 
`` How uncomfortable it is , '' whispered Catherine , `` not to have a single acquaintance here ! '' 
`` Very agreeable indeed , '' she replied , vainly endéavouring to hide a great yawn . 
Yet Catherine was in very good looks , and had the company only seen her three years before , they would now have thought her exceedingly handsome . 
She was looked at however , and with some admiration ; for , in her own hearing , two gentlemen pronounced her to be a pretty girl . 
Such words had their due effect ; she immediately thought the evening pleasanter than she had found it before -- her humble vanity was contented -- she felt more obliged to the two young men for this simple praise than a true quality heroine would have been for fifteen sonnets in celebration of her charms , and went to her chair in good humour with every body , and perfectly satisfied with her share of public attention . 
His address was good , and Catherine felt herself in high luck . 
There was little leisure for speaking while they danced ; but when they were seated at tea , she found him as agreeable as she had already given him credit for being . 
He talked with fluency and spirit -- and there was an archness and pleasantry in his manner which interested , though it was hardly understood by her . 
After chatting some time on such matters as naturally arose from the objects around them , he suddenly addressed her with -- `` I have hitherto been very remiss , madam , in the proper attentions of a partner here ; I have not yet asked you how long you have been in Bath ; whether you were ever here before ; whether you have been at the Upper Rooms , the theatre , and the concert ; and how you like the place altogether . 
`` About a week , sir , '' replied Catherine , trying not to laugh . 
Catherine turned away her head , not knowing whether she might venture to laugh . 
`` I have sometimes thought , '' said Catherine , doubtingly , `` whether ladies do write so much better letters than gentlemen ! 
They were interrupted by Mrs. Allen : -- `` My dear Catherine , '' said she , `` do take this pin out of my sleeve ; I am afraid it has torn a hole already ; I shall be quite sorry if it has , for this is a favourite gown , though it cost but nine shillings a yard . '' 
`` How can you , '' said Catherine , laughing , `` be so -- -- '' she had almost said , strange . 
Catherine feared , as she listened to their discourse , that he indulged himself a little too much with the foibles of others . 
Catherine coloured , and said , `` I was not thinking of any thing . '' 
With more than usual eagerness did Catherine hasten to the Pump-room the next day , secure within herself of seeing Mr. Tilney there before the morning were over , and ready to meet him with a smile : -- but no smile was demanded -- Mr. Tilney did not appear . 
For a moment Catherine was surprized ; but Mrs. Thorpe and her daughters had scarcely begun the history of their acquaintance with Mr. James Morland , before she remembered that her eldest brother had lately formed an intimacy with a young man of his own college , of the name of Thorpe ; and that he had spent the last week of the Christmas vacation with his family , near London . 
The whole being explained , many obliging things were said by the Miss Thorpes of their wish of being better acquainted with her ; of being considered as already friends , through the friendship of their brothers , & c. which Catherine heard with pleasure , and answered with all the pretty expressions she could command ; and , as the first proof of amity , she was soon invited to accept an arm of the eldest Miss Thorpe , and take a turn with her about the room . 
Catherine was delighted with this extension of her Bath acquaintance , and almost forgot Mr. Tilney while she talked to Miss Thorpe . 
These powers received due admiration from Catherine , to whom they were entirely new ; and the respect which they naturally inspired might have been too great for familiarity , had not the easy gaiety of Miss Thorpe 's manners , and her frequent expressions of delight on this acquaintance with her , softened down every feeling of awe , and left nothing but tender affection . 
Catherine then ran directly up stairs , and watched Miss Thorpe 's progress down the street from the drawing-room window ; admired the graceful spirit of her walk , the fashionable air of her figure and dress , and felt grateful , as well she might , for the chance which had procured her such a friend . 
Catherine was not so much engaged at the theatre that evening , in returning the nods and smiles of Miss Thorpe , though they certainly claimed much of her leisure , as to forget to look with an inquiring eye for Mr. Tilney in every box which her eye could reach ; but she looked in vain . 
Here Catherine and Isabella , arm in arm , again tasted the sweets of friendship in an unreserved conversation ; -- they talked much , and with much enjoyment ; but again was Catherine disappointed in her hope of reseeing her partner . 
This sort of mysteriousness , which is always so becoming in a hero , threw a fresh grace in Catherine 's imagination around his person and manners , and increased her anxiety to know more of him . 
From the Thorpes she could learn nothing , for they had been only two days in Bath before they met with Mrs. Allen . 
Isabella was very sure that he must be a charming young man ; and was equally sure that he must have been delighted with her dear Catherine , and would therefore shortly return . 
She liked him the better for being a clergyman , `` for she must confess herself very partial to the profession ; '' and something like a sigh escaped her as she said it . 
Perhaps Catherine was wrong in not demanding the cause of that gentle emotion -- but she was not experienced enough in the finesse of love , or the duties of friendship , to know when delicate raillery was properly called for , or when a confidence should be forced . 
The progress of the friendship between Catherine and Isabella was quick as its beginning had been warm , and they passed so rapidly through every gradation of increasing tenderness , that there was shortly no fresh proof of it to be given to their friends or themselves . 
But , my dearest Catherine , what have you been doing with yourself all this morning ? 
dear , '' cried Catherine , colouring , `` how can you say so ? '' 
Catherine coloured , and disclaimed again . 
But , my dearest Catherine , have you settled what to wear on your head tonight ? 
`` But it does not signify if they do ; '' said Catherine , very innocently . 
`` Very well , Catherine . 
Catherine , in some amazement , complied ; and after remaining a few moments silent , was on the point of reverting to what interested her at that time rather more than any thing else in the world , Laurentina 's skeleton ; when her friend prevented her , by saying , -- `` For Heaven 's sake ! 
Away they walked to the book ; and while Isabella examined the names , it was Catherine 's employment to watch the proceedings of these alarming young men . 
In a few moments Catherine , with unaffected pleasure , assured her that she need not be longer uneasy , as the gentlemen had just left the Pump-room . 
Catherine readily agreed . 
`` Only , '' she added , `` perhaps we may overtake the two young men . '' 
Catherine had nothing to oppose against such reasoning ; and therefore , to shew the independence of Miss Thorpe , and her resolution of humbling the sex , they set off immediately as fast as they could walk , in pursuit of the two young men . 
was uttered at the same moment by Catherine ; and , on catching the young men 's eyes , the horse was immediately checked with a violence which almost threw him on his haunches , and the servant having now scampered up , the gentlemen jumped out , and the equipage was delivered to his care . 
Catherine , by whom this meeting was wholly unexpected , received her brother with the liveliest pleasure ; and he , being of a very amiable disposition , and sincerely attached to her , gave every proof on his side of equal satisfaction , which he could have leisure to do , while the bright eyes of Miss Thorpe were incessantly challenging his notice ; and to her his devoirs were speedily paid , with a mixture of joy and embarrassment which might have informed Catherine , had she been more expert in the developement of other people 's feelings , and less simply engrossed by her own , that her brother thought her friend quite as pretty as she could do herself . 
John Thorpe , who in the mean time had been giving orders about the horses , soon joined them , and from him she directly received the amends which were her due ; for while he slightly and carelessly touched the hand of Isabella , on her he bestowed a whole scrape and half a short bow . 
Morland remonstrated , pleaded the authority of road-books , innkeepers , and milestones ; but his friend disregarded them all ; he had a surer test of distance . 
`` You have lost an hour , '' said Morland ; `` it was only ten o'clock when we came from Tetbury . '' 
`` And I am sure , '' said Catherine , `` I know so little of such things that I can not judge whether it was cheap or dear . '' 
`` That was very good-natured of you , '' said Catherine , quite pleased . 
John Thorpe kept of course with Catherine , and , after a few minutes ' silence , renewed the conversation about his gig -- `` You will find , however , Miss Morland , it would be reckoned a cheap thing by some people , for I might have sold it for ten guineas more the next day ; Jackson , of Oriel , bid me sixty at once ; Morland was with me at the time . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Morland , who overheard this ; `` but you forget that your horse was included . '' 
`` Thank you , '' said Catherine , in some distress , from a doubt of the propriety of accepting such an offer . 
said Catherine very seriously , `` that will be forty miles a day . '' 
cried Isabella , turning round ; `` my dearest Catherine , I quite envy you ; but I am afraid , brother , you will not have room for a third . '' 
Morland must take care of you . '' 
This brought on a dialogue of civilities between the other two ; but Catherine heard neither the particulars nor the result . 
Her companion 's discourse now sunk from its hitherto animated pitch , to nothing more than a short decisive sentence of praise or condemnation on the face of every woman they met ; and Catherine , after listening and agreeing as long as she could , with all the civility and deference of the youthful female mind , fearful of hazarding an opinion of its own in opposition to that of a self-assured man , especially where the beauty of her own sex is concerned , ventured at length to vary the subject by a question which had been long uppermost in her thoughts ; it was , `` Have you ever read Udolpho , Mr. Thorpe ? '' 
Catherine , humbled and ashamed , was going to apologize for her question , but he prevented her by saying , `` Novels are all so full of nonsense and stuff ; there has not been a tolerably decent one come out since Tom Jones , except the Monk ; I read that t ` other day ; but as for all the others , they are the stupidest things in creation . '' 
`` Udolpho was written by Mrs. Radcliff , '' said Catherine , with some hesitation , from the fear of mortifying him . 
This critique , the justness of which was unfortunately lost on poor Catherine , brought them to the door of Mrs. Thorpe 's lodgings , and the feelings of the discerning and unprejudiced reader of Camilla gave way to the feelings of the dutiful and affectionate son , as they met Mrs. Thorpe , who had descried them from above , in the passage . 
Here is Morland and I come to stay a few days with you , so you must look out for a couple of good beds some where near . '' 
These manners did not please Catherine ; but he was James 's friend and Isabella 's brother ; and her judgment was further bought off by Isabella 's assuring her , when they withdrew to see the new hat , that John thought her the most charming girl in the world , and by John 's engaging her before they parted to dance with him that evening . 
Had she been older or vainer , such attacks might have done little ; but , where youth and diffidence are united , it requires uncommon steadiness of reason to resist the attraction of being called the most charming girl in the world , and of being so very early engaged as a partner ; and the consequence was , that , when the two Morlands , after sitting an hour with the Thorpes , set off to walk together to Mr. Allen 's , and James , as the door was closed on them , said , `` Well , Catherine , how do you like my friend Thorpe ? '' 
She said the highest things in your praise that could possibly be ; and the praise of such a girl as Miss Thorpe even you , Catherine , '' taking her hand with affection , `` may be proud of . '' 
`` Indeed I am , '' she replied ; `` I love her exceedingly , and am delighted to find that you like her too . 
You hardly mentioned any thing of her , when you wrote to me after your visit there . '' 
She is a most amiable girl ; such a superior understanding ! 
How fond all the family are of her ; she is evidently the general favourite ; and how much she must be admired in such a place as this -- is not she ? '' 
`` Yes , very much indeed , I fancy ; Mr. Allen thinks her the prettiest girl in Bath . '' 
I need not ask you whether you are happy here , my dear Catherine ; with such a companion and friend as Isabella Thorpe , it would be impossible for you to be otherwise ; and the Allens I am sure are very kind to you ? '' 
James accepted this tribute of gratitude , and qualified his conscience for accepting it too , by saying with perfect sincerity , `` Indeed , Catherine , I love you dearly . '' 
The time of the two parties uniting in the Octagon Room being correctly adjusted , Catherine was then left to the luxury of a raised , restless , and frightened imagination over the pages of Udolpho , lost from all worldly concerns of dressing and dinner , incapable of soothing Mrs. Allen 's fears on the delay of an expected dress-maker , and having only one minute in sixty to bestow even on the reflection of her own felicity , in being already engaged for the evening . 
The dancing began within a few minutes after they were seated ; and James , who had been engaged quite as long as his sister , was very importunate with Isabella to stand up ; but John was gone into the card-room to speak to a friend , and nothing , she declared , should induce her to join the set before her dear Catherine could join it too : `` I assure you , '' said she , `` I would not stand up without your dear sister for all the world ; for if I did we should certainly be separated the whole evening . '' 
Catherine accepted this kindness with gratitude , and they continued as they were for three minutes longer , when Isabella , who had been talking to James on the other side of her , turned again to his sister and whispered , `` My dear creature , I am afraid I must leave you , your brother is so amazingly impatient to begin ; I know you will not mind my going away , and I dare say John will be back in a moment , and then you may easily find me out . '' 
Catherine , though a little disappointed , had too much good-nature to make any opposition , and the others rising up , Isabella had only time to press her friend 's hand and say , `` Good bye , my dear love , '' before they hurried off . 
The younger Miss Thorpes being also dancing , Catherine was left to the mercy of Mrs. Thorpe and Mrs. Allen , between whom she now remained . 
Catherine had fortitude too ; she suffered , but no murmur passed her lips . 
From this state of humiliation , she was roused , at the end of ten minutes , to a pleasanter feeling , by seeing , not Mr. Thorpe , but Mr. Tilney , within three yards of the place where they sat ; he seemed to be moving that way , but he did not see her , and therefore the smile and the blush , which his sudden reappearance raised in Catherine , passed away without sullying her heroic importance . 
He looked as handsome and as lively as ever , and was talking with interest to a fashionable and pleasing-looking young woman , who leant on his arm , and whom Catherine immediately guessed to be his sister ; thus unthinkingly throwing away a fair opportunity of considering him lost to her for ever , by being married already . 
But guided only by what was simple and probable , it had never entered her head that Mr. Tilney could be married ; he had not behaved , he had not talked , like the married men to whom she had been used ; he had never mentioned a wife , and he had acknowledged a sister . 
From these circumstances sprang the instant conclusion of his sister 's now being by his side ; and therefore , instead of turning of a deathlike paleness , and falling in a fit on Mrs. Allen 's bosom , Catherine sat erect , in the perfect use of her senses , and with cheeks only a little redder than usual . 
Mr. Tilney and his companion , who continued , though slowly , to approach , were immediately preceded by a lady , an acquaintance of Mrs. Thorpe ; and this lady stopping to speak to her , they , as belonging to her , stopped likewise , and Catherine , catching Mr. Tilney 's eye , instantly received from him the smiling tribute of recognition . 
She returned it with pleasure , and then advancing still nearer , he spoke both to her and Mrs. Allen , by whom he was very civilly acknowledged . 
He thanked her for her fears , and said that he had quitted it for a week , on the very morning after his having had the pleasure of seeing her . 
This was accordingly done , Mr. Tilney still continuing standing before them ; and after a few minutes consideration , he asked Catherine to dance with him . 
Mrs. Hughes could not have applied to any creature in the room more happy to oblige her than Catherine . 
Catherine , interested at once by her appearance and her relationship to Mr. Tilney , was desirous of being acquainted with her , and readily talked therefore whenever she could think of any thing to say , and had courage and leisure for saying it . 
But the hindrance thrown in the way of a very speedy intimacy , by the frequent want of one or more of these requisites , prevented their doing more than going through the first rudiments of an acquaintance , by informing themselves how well the other liked Bath , how much she admired its buildings and surrounding country , whether she drew , or played or sang , and whether she was fond of riding on horseback . 
The two dances were scarcely concluded before Catherine found her arm gently seized by her faithful Isabella , who in great spirits exclaimed -- `` At last I have got you . 
I have been scolding him to such a degree , my dear Catherine , you would be quite amazed . 
`` Look at that young lady with the white beads round her head , '' whispered Catherine , detaching her friend from James -- `` It is Mr. Tilney 's sister . '' 
In this common-place chatter , which lasted some time , the original subject seemed entirely forgotten ; and though Catherine was very well pleased to have it dropped for a while , she could not avoid a little suspicion at the total suspension of all Isabella 's impatient desire to see Mr. Tilney . 
How can you be so teasing ; only conceive , my dear Catherine , what your brother wants me to do . 
My sweet Catherine , do support me , persuade your brother how impossible it is . 
Come along , my dearest Catherine , for heaven 's sake , and stand by me . '' 
John Thorpe , in the meanwhile , had walked away ; and Catherine , ever willing to give Mr. Tilney an opportunity of repeating the agreeable request which had already flattered her once , made her way to Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Thorpe as fast as she could , in the hope of finding him still with them -- a hope which , when it proved to be fruitless , she felt to have been highly unreasonable . 
said Catherine , looking round ; but she had not looked round long before she saw him leading a young lady to the dance . 
This inapplicable answer might have been too much for the comprehension of many ; but it did not puzzle Mrs. Allen , for after only a moment 's consideration , she said , in a whisper to Catherine , `` I dare say she thought I was speaking of her son . '' 
Catherine was disappointed and vexed . 
She seemed to have missed by so little the very object she had had in view ; and this persuasion did not incline her to a very gracious reply , when John Thorpe came up to her soon afterwards , and said , `` Well , Miss Morland , I suppose you and I are to stand up and jig it together again . '' 
Again Catherine excused herself ; and at last he walked off to quiz his sisters by himself . 
The rest of the evening she found very dull ; Mr. Tilney was drawn away from their party at tea , to attend that of his partner ; Miss Tilney , though belonging to it , did not sit near her , and James and Isabella were so much engaged in conversing together , that the latter had no leisure to bestow more on her friend than one smile , one squeeze , and one `` dearest Catherine . '' 
Theprogress of Catherine 's unhappiness from the events of the evening , was as follows . 
It appeared first in a general dissatisfaction with every body about her , while she remained in the rooms , which speedily brought on considerable weariness and a violent desire to go home . 
This , on arriving in Pulteney-street , took the direction of extraordinary hunger , and when that was appeased , changed into an earnest longing to be in bed ; such was the extreme point of her distress ; for when there she immediately fell into a sound sleep which lasted nine hours , and from which she awoke perfectly revived , in excellent spirits , with fresh hopes and fresh schemes . 
The first wish of her heart was to improve her acquaintance with Miss Tilney , and almost her first resolution , to seek her for that purpose , in the Pump-room at noon . 
In the Pump-room , one so newly arrived in Bath must be met with , and that building she had already found so favourable for the discovery of female excellence , and the completion of female intimacy , so admirably adapted for secret discourses and unlimited confidence , that she was most reasonably encouraged to expect another friend from within its walls . 
Her plan for the morning thus settled , she sat quietly down to her book after breakfast , resolving to remain in the same place and the same employment till the clock struck one ; and from habitude very little incommoded by the remarks and ejaculations of Mrs. Allen , whose vacancy of mind and incapacity for thinking were such , that as she never talked a great deal , so she could never be entirely silent ; and , therefore , while she sat at her work , if she lost her needle or broke her thread , if she heard a carriage in the street , or saw a speek upon her gown , she must observe it aloud , whether there were any one at leisure to answer her or not . 
At about half past twelve , a remarkably loud rap drew her in haste to the window , and scarcely had she time to inform Catherine of there being two open carriages at the door , in the first only a servant , her brother driving Miss Thorpe in the second , before John Thorpe came running up stairs , calling out , `` Well , Miss Morland , here I am . 
said Catherine , `` where are you all going to ? '' 
`` Something was said about it , I remember , '' said Catherine , looking at Mrs. Allen for her opinion ; `` but really I did not expect you . '' 
Catherine 's silent appeal to her friend , meanwhile , was entirely thrown away , for Mrs. Allen , not being at all in the habit of conveying any expression herself by a look , was not aware of its being ever intended by any body else ; and Catherine , whose desire of seeing Miss Tilney again could at that moment bear a short delay in favour of a drive , and who thought there could be no impropriety in her going with Mr. Thorpe , as Isabella was going at the same time with James , was therefore obliged to speak plainer . 
Catherine took the advice , and ran off to get ready . 
In a very few minutes she re-appeared , having scarcely allowed the two others time enough to get through a few short sentences in her praise , after Thorpe had procured Mrs. Allen 's admiration of his gig ; and then receiving her friend 's parting good wishes , they both hurried down stairs . 
Catherine followed her orders and tnrned away , but not too soon to hear her friend exclaim aloud to James , `` What a sweet girl she is ! 
Catherine did not think the portrait a very inviting one , but it was too late to retreat , and she was too young to own herself frightened ; so , resigning herself to her fate , and trusting to the animal 's boasted knowledge of its owner , she sat peaceably down , and saw Thorpe sit down by her . 
Catherine , delighted at so happy an escape , spoke her pleasure aloud with grateful surprize ; and her companion immediately made the matter perfectly simple by assuring her that it was entirely owing to the peculiarly judicious manner in which he had then held the reins , and the singular discernment and dexterity with which he had directed his whip . 
Catherine , though she could not help wondering that with such perfect command of his horse , he should think it necessary to alarm her with a relation of its tricks , congratulated herself sincerely on being under the care of so excellent a coachman ; and perceiving that the animal continued to go on in the same quiet manner , without shewing the smallest propensity towards any unpleasant vivacity , and -LRB- considering its inevitable pace was ten miles an hour -RRB- by no means alarmingly fast , gave herself up to all the enjoyment of air and exercise of the most invigorating kind , in a fine mild day of February , with the consciousness of safety . 
Catherine did not understand him -- and he repeated his question , adding in explanation , `` Old Allen , the man you are with . '' 
`` Yes , it does give a notion , '' said Catherine , warmly , `` and that is , that you all drink a great deal more wine than I thought you did . 
This declaration brought on a loud and overpowering reply , of which no part was very distinct , except the frequent exclamations , amounting almost to oaths , which adorned it , and Catherine was left , when it ended , with rather a strengthened belief of there being a great deal of wine drank in Oxford , and the same happy conviction of her brother 's comparative sobriety . 
Thorpe 's ideas then all reverted to the merits of his own equipage , and she was called on to admire the spirit and freedom with which his horse moved along , and the ease which his paces , as well as the excellence of the springs , gave the motion of the carriage . 
She followed him in all his admiration as well as she could . 
His knowledge and her ignorance of the subject , his rapidity of expression , and her diffidence of herself put that out of her power ; she could strike out nothing new in commendation , but she readily echoed whatever he chose to assert , and it was finally settled between them without any difficulty , that his equipage was altogether the most complete of its kind in England , his carriage the neatest , his horse the best goer , and himself the best coachman . 
-- `` You do not really think , Mr. Thorpe , '' said Catherine , venturing after some time to consider the matter as entirely decided , and to offer some little variation on the subject , `` that James 's gig will break down ? '' 
cried Catherine , quite frightened , `` then pray let us turn back ; they will certainly meet with an accident if we go on . 
Catherine listened with astonishment ; she knew not how to reconcile two such very different accounts of the same thing ; for she had not been brought up to understand the propensities of a rattle , nor to know to how many idle assertions and impudent falsehoods the excess of vanity will lead . 
Her own family were plain matter-of-fact people , who seldom aimed at wit of any kind ; her father , at the utmost , being contented with a pun , and her mother with a proverb ; they were not in the habit therefore of telling lies to increase their importance , or of asserting at one moment what they would contradict the next . 
She reflected on the affair for sometime in much perplexity , and was more than once on the point of requesting from Mr. Thorpe a clearer insight into his real opinion on the subject ; but she checked herself , because it appeared to her that he did not excel in giving those clearer insights , in making those things plain which he had before made ambiguous ; and , joining to this , the consideration , that he would not really suffer his sister and his friend to be exposed to a danger from which he might easily preserve them , she concluded at last , that he must know the carriage to be in fact perfectly safe , and therefore would alarm herself no longer . 
Little as Catherine was in the habit of judging for herself , and unfixed as were her general notions of what men ought to be , she could not entirely repress a doubt , while she bore with the effusions of his endless conceit , of his being altogether completely agreeable . 
and she would neither believe her own watch , nor her brother 's , nor the servant 's ; she would believe no assurance of it founded on reason or reality , till Morland produced his watch , and ascertained the fact ; to have doubted a moment longer then , would have been equally inconceivable , incredible , and impossible ; and she could only protest , over and over again , that no two hours and a half had ever gone off so swiftly before , as Catherine was called on to confirm : Catherine could not tell a falsehood even to please Isabella ; but the latter was spared the misery of her friend 's dissenting voice , by not waiting for her answer . 
-- It was ages since she had had a moment 's conversation with her dearest Catherine ; and , though she had such thousands of things to say to her , it appeared as if they were never to be together again ; so , with smiles of most exquisite misery , and the laughing eye of utter despondency , she bade her friend adieu and went on . 
Catherine found Mrs. Allen just returned from all the busy idleness of the morning , and was immediately greeted with , `` Well , my dear , here you are ; '' a truth which she had no greater inclination than power to dispute ; `` and I hope you have had a pleasant airing ? '' 
Catherine inquired no further ; she had heard enough to feel that Mrs. Allen had no real intelligence to give , and that she was most particularly unfortunate herself in having missed such a meeting with both brother and sister . 
TheAllens , Thorpes , and Morlands , all met in the evening at the theatre ; and , as Catherine and Isabella sat together , there was then an opportunity for the latter to utter some few of the many thousand things which had been collecting within her for communication , in the immeasurable length of time which had divided them . 
my beloved Catherine , have I got you at last ? '' 
was her address on Catherine 's entering the box and sitting by her . 
`` Now , Mr. Morland , '' for he was close to her on the other side , `` I shall not speak another word to you all the rest of the evening ; so I charge you not to expect it . 
My sweetest Catherine , how have you been this long age ? 
`` No , '' said Catherine , `` he is not here ; I can not see him any where . '' 
Catherine 's resolution of endeavouring to meet Miss Tilney again continued in full force the next morning ; and till the usual moment of going to the Pump-room , she felt some alarm from the dread of a second prevention . 
The female part of the Thorpe family , attended by James Morland , appeared among the crowd in less than a quarter of an hour , and Catherine immediately took her usual place by the side of her friend . 
James , who was now in constant attendance , maintained a similar position , and separating themselves from the rest of their party , they walked in that manner for some time , till Catherine began to doubt the happiness of a situation which confining her entirely to her friend and brother , gave her very little share in the notice of either . 
They were always engaged in some sentimental discussion or lively dispute , but their sentiment was conveyed in such whispering voices , and their vivacity attended with so much laughter , that though Catherine 's supporting opinion was not unfrequently called for by one or the other she was never able to give any , from not having heard a word of the subject . 
At length however she was empowered to disengage herself from her friend , by the avowed necessity of speaking to Miss Tilney , whom she most joyfully saw just entering the room with Mrs. Hughes , and whom she instantly joined , with a firmer determination to be acquainted , than she might have had courage to command , had she not been urged by the disappointment of the day before . 
was an artless exclamation of Catherine 's towards the close of their conversation , which at once surprized and amused her companion . 
she replied with a smile . 
`` You can not think , '' added Catherine after a moment 's silence , `` how surprized I was to see him again . 
`` I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you again soon , '' said Catherine . 
-- This civility was duly returned ; and they parted -- on Miss Tilney 's side with some knowledge of her new acquaintance 's feelings , and on Catherine 's , without the smallest consciousness of having explained them . 
She went home very happy . 
The morning had answered all her hopes , and the evening of the following day was now the object of expectation , the future good . 
What gown and what head-dress she should wear on the occasion became her chief concern . 
She can not be justified in it . 
Catherine knew all this very well ; her great aunt had read her a lecture on the subject only the Christmas before ; and yet she lay awake ten minutes on Wednesday night debating between her spotted and her tamboured muslin , and nothing but the shortness of the time prevented her buying a new one for the evening . 
This would have been an error in judgment , great though not uncommon , from which one of the other sex rather than her own , a brother rather than a great aunt might have warned her , for man only can be aware of the insensibility of man towards a new gown . 
-- But not one of these grave reflections troubled the tranquillity of Catherine . 
She entered the rooms on Thursday evening with feelings very different from what had attended her thither the Monday before . 
She had then been exulting in her engagement to Thorpe , and was now chiefly anxious to avoid his sight , lest he should engage her again ; for though she could not , dared not expect that Mr. Tilney should ask her a third time to dance , her wishes , hopes and plans all centered in nothing less . 
As soon as they were joined by the Thorpes , Catherine 's agony began ; she fidgetted about if John Thorpe came towards her , hid herself as much as possible from his view , and when he spoke to her pretended not to hear him . 
The cotillions were over , the country-dancing beginning , and she saw nothing of the Tilneys . 
`` Do not be frightened , my dear Catherine , '' whispered Isabella , `` but I am really going to dance with your brother again . 
Catherine had neither time nor inclination to answer . 
The others walked away , John Thorpe was still in view , and she gave herself up for lost . 
That she might not appear , however , to observe or expect him , she kept her eyes intently fixed on her fan ; and a self-condemnation for her folly , in supposing that among such a crowd they should even meet with the Tilneys in any reasonable time , had just passed through her mind , when she suddenly found herself addressed and again solicited to dance , by Mr. Tilney himself . 
With what sparkling eyes and ready motion she granted his request , and with how pleasing a flutter of heart she went with him to the set , may be easily imagined . 
To escape , and , as she believed , so narrowly escape John Thorpe , and to be asked , so immediately on his joining her , asked by Mr. Tilney , as if he had sought her on purpose ! 
-- it did not appear to her that life could supply any greater felicity . 
Scarcely had they worked themselves into the quiet possession of a place , however , when her attention was claimed by John Thorpe , who stood behind her . 
Catherine satisfied his curiosity . 
This was the last sentence by which he could weary Catherine 's attention , for he was just then born off by the resistless pressure of a long string of passing ladies . 
Her partner now drew near , and said , `` That gentleman would have put me out of patience , had he staid with you half a minute longer . 
Soon after their reaching the bottom of the set , Catherine perceived herself to be earnestly regarded by a gentleman who stood among the lookers-on , immediately behind her partner . 
He was a very handsome man , of a commanding aspect , past the bloom , but not past the vigour of life ; and with his eye still directed towards her , she saw him presently address Mr. Tilney in a familiar whisper . 
Confused by his notice , and blushing from the fear of its being excited by something wrong in her appearance , she turned away her head . 
But while she did so , the gentleman retreated , and her partner coming nearer , said , `` I see that you guess what I have just been asked . 
Catherine 's answer was only `` Oh ! '' 
With real interest and strong admiration did her eye now follow the General , as he moved through the crowd , and `` How handsome a family they are ! '' 
was her secret remark . 
This was readily agreed to , with only a proviso of Miss Tilney 's , that it did not rain , which Catherine was sure it would not . 
At twelve o'clock , they were to call for her in Pulteney-street -- and `` remember -- twelve o'clock , '' was her parting speech to her new friend . 
Of her other , her older , her more established friend , Isabella , of whose fidelity and worth she had enjoyed a fortnight 's experience , she scarcely saw any thing during the evening . 
Yet , though longing to make her acquainted with her happiness , she cheerfully submitted to the wish of Mr. Allen , which took them rather early away , and her spirits danced within her , as she danced in her chair all the way home . 
Themorrow brought a very sober looking morning ; the sun making only a few efforts to appear ; and Catherine augured from it , every thing most favourable to her wishes . 
A bright morning so early in the year , she allowed would generally turn to rain , but a cloudy one foretold improvement as the day advanced . 
She applied to Mr. Allen for confirmation of her hopes , but Mr. Allen not having his own skies and barometer about him , declined giving any absolute promise of sunshine . 
She applied to Mrs. Allen , and Mrs. Allen 's opinion was more positive . 
At about eleven o'clock however , a few specks of small rain upon the windows caught Catherine 's watchful eye , and `` Oh ! 
dear , I do believe it will be wet , '' broke from her in a most desponding tone . 
`` No walk for me to-day , '' sighed Catherine ; -- '' but perhaps it may come to nothing , or it may hold up before twelve , '' `` Perhaps it may , but then , my dear , it will be so dirty . '' 
said Catherine , as she stood watching at a window . 
Catherine went every five minutes to the clock , threatening on each return that , if it still kept on raining another five minutes , she would give up the matter as hopeless . 
At half past twelve , when Catherine 's anxious attention to the weather was over , and she could no longer claim any merit from its amendment , the sky began voluntarily to clear . 
A gleam of sunshine took her quite by surprize ; she looked round ; the clouds were parting , and she instantly returned to the window to watch over and encourage the happy appearance . 
But whether Catherine might still expect her friends , whether there had not been too much rain for Miss Tilney to venture , must yet be a question . 
It was too dirty for Mrs. Allen to accompany her husband to the Pump-room ; he accordingly set off by himself , and Catherine had barely watched him down the street , when her notice was claimed by the approach of the same two open carriages , containing the same three people that had surprized her so much a few mornings back . 
`` My sweetest Catherine , is not this delightful ? 
`` I doubt our being able to do so much , '' said Morland . 
cried Catherine ; `` what is that ? '' 
`` I can not go , because '' -- -LRB- looking down as she spoke , fearful of Isabella 's smile -RRB- `` I expect Miss Tilney and her brother to call on me to take a country walk . 
Isabella corroborated it : -- `` My dearest Catherine , you can not form an idea of the dirt ; come , you must go ; you can not refuse going now . '' 
Catherine 's feelings , as she got into the carriage , were in a very unsettled state ; divided between regret for the loss of one great pleasure , and the hope of soon enjoying another , almost its equal in degree , however unlike in kind . 
She could not think the Tilneys had acted quite well by her , in so readily giving up their engagement , without sending her any message of excuse . 
It was now but an hour later than the time fixed on for the beginning of their walk ; and , in spite of what she had heard of the prodigious accumulation of dirt in the course of that hour , she could not from her own observation help thinking , that they might have gone with very little inconvenience . 
On the other hand , the delight of exploring an edifice like Udolpho , as her fancy represented Blaize Castle to be , was such a counterpoise of good , as might console her for almost any thing . 
Thorpe talked to his horse , and she meditated , by turns , on broken promises and broken arches , phaetons and false hangings , Tilneys and trap-doors . 
Catherine looked round and saw Miss Tilney leaning on her brother 's arm , walking slowly down the street . 
She saw them both looking back at her . 
But to what purpose did she speak ? 
But Mr. Thorpe only laughed , smacked his whip , encouraged his horse , made odd noises , and drove on ; and Catherine , angry and vexed as she was , having no power of getting away , was obliged to give up the point and submit . 
Her reproaches , however , were not spared . 
Catherine 's complaisance was no longer what it had been in their former airing . 
She listened reluctantly , and her replies were short . 
Blaize Castle remained her only comfort ; towards that , she still looked at intervals with pleasure ; though rather than be disappointed of the promised walk , and especially rather than be thought ill of by the Tilneys , she would willingly have given up all the happiness which its walls could supply -- the happiness of a progress through a long suite of lofty rooms , exhibiting the remains of magnificent furniture , though now for many years deserted -- the happiness of being stopped in their way along narrow , winding vaults , by a low , grated door ; or even of having their lamp , their only lamp , extinguished by a sudden gust of wind , and of being left in total darkness . 
In the meanwhile , they proceeded on their journey without any mischance ; and were within view of the town of Keynsham , when a halloo from Morland , who was behind them , made his friend pull up , to know what was the matter . 
The others then came close enough for conversation , and Morland said , `` We had better go back , Thorpe ; it is too late to go on to-day ; your sister thinks so as well as I . 
Morland is a fool for not keeping a horse and gig of his own . '' 
`` No , he is not , '' said Catherine warmly , `` for I am sure he could not afford it . '' 
Thorpe then said something in the loud , incoherent way to which he had often recourse , about its being a d -- thing to be miserly ; and that if people who rolled in money could not afford things , he did not know who could ; which Catherine did not even endeavour to understand . 
Disappointed of what was to have been the consolation for her first disappointment , she was less and less disposed either to be agreeable herself , or to find her companion so ; and they returned to Pulteney-street without her speaking twenty words . 
As she entered the house , the footman told her , that a gentleman and lady had called and inquired for her a few minutes after her setting off ; that , when he told them she was gone out with Mr. Thorpe , the lady had asked whether any message had been left for her ; and on his saying no , had felt for a card , but said she had none about her , and went away . 
Pondering over these heart-rending tidings , Catherine walked slowly up stairs . 
At the head of them she was met by Mr. Allen , who , on hearing the reason of their speedy return , said , `` I am glad your brother had so much sense ; I am glad you are come back . 
Catherine was disturbed and out of spirits ; but Isabella seemed to find a pool of commerce , in the fate of which she shared , by private partnership with Morland , a very good equivalent for the quiet and country air of an inn at Clifton . 
Her satisfaction , too , in not being at the Lower Rooms , was spoken more than once . 
Catherine could almost have accused Isabella of being wanting in tenderness towards herself and her sorrows ; so very little did they appear to dwell on her mind , and so very inadequate was the comfort she offered . 
`` Do not be so dull , my dearest creature , '' she whispered . 
`` Mrs. Allen , '' said Catherine the next morning , `` will there be any harm in my calling on Miss Tilney today ? 
Catherine cheerfully complied ; and being properly equipped , was more impatient than ever to be at the Pump-room , that she might inform herself of General Tilney 's lodgings , for though she believed they were in Milsom-street , she was not certain of the house , and Mrs. Allen 's wavering convictions only made it more doubtful . 
Catherine , with a blush of mortification , left the house . 
She felt almost persuaded that Miss Tilney was at home , and too much offended to admit her ; and as she retired down the street , could not withhold one glance at the drawing-room windows , in expectation of seeing her there , but no one appeared at them . 
She was followed by a gentleman , whom Catherine believed to be her father , and they turned up towards Edgar 's - buildings . 
Catherine , in deep mortification , proceeded on her way . 
She could almost be angry herself at such angry incivility ; but she checked the resentful sensation ; she remembered her own ignorance . 
She knew not how such an offence as her 's might be classed by the laws of worldly politeness , to what a degree of unforgivingness it might with propriety lead , nor to what rigours of rudeness in return it might justly make her amenable . 
Dejected and humbled , she had even some thoughts of not going with the others to the theatre that night ; but it must be confessed that they were not of long continuance : for she soon recollected , in the first place , that she was without any excuse for staying at home ; and , in the second , that it was a play she wanted very much to see . 
To the theatre accordingly they all went ; no Tilneys appeared to plague or please her ; she feared that , amongst the many perfections of the family , a fondness for plays was not to be ranked ; but perhaps it was because they were habituated to the finer performances of the London stage , which she knew , on Isabella 's authority , rendered every thing else of the kind `` quite horrid . '' 
She was not deceived in her own expectation of pleasure ; the comedy so well suspended her care , that no one , observing her during the first four acts , would have supposed she had any wretchedness about her . 
On the beginning of the fifth , however , the sudden view of Mr. Henry Tilney and his father , joining a party in the opposite box , recalled her to anxiety and distress . 
The stage could no longer excite genuine merriment -- no longer keep her whole attention . 
Every other look upon an average was directed towarde the opposite box ; and , for the space of two entire scenes , did she thus watch Henry Tilney , without being once able to catch his eye . 
At length , however , he did look towards her , and he bowed -- but such a bow ! 
Catherine was restlessly miserable ; she could almost have run round to the box in which he sat , and forced him to hear her explanation . 
Feelings rather natural than heroic possessed her ; instead of considering her own dignity injured by this ready condemnation -- instead of proudly resolving , in conscious innocence , to shew her resentment towards him who could harbour a doubt of it , to leave to him all the trouble of seeking an explanation , and to enlighten him on the past only by avoiding his sight , or flirting with somebody else , she took to herself all the shame of misconduct , or at least of its appearance , and was only eager for an opportunity of explaining its cause . 
She was right ; in a few minutes he appeared , and , making his way through the then thinning rows , spoke with like calm politeness to Mrs. Allen and her friend . 
With a yet sweeter smile , he said every thing that need be said of his sister 's concern , regret , and dependence on Catherine 's honour . 
do not say Miss Tilney was not angry , '' cried Catherine , `` because I know she was ; for she would not see me this morning when I called ; I saw her walk out of the house the next minute after my leaving it ; I was hurt , but I was not affornted . 
Catherine 's mind was greatly eased by this information , yet a something of solicitude remained , from which sprang the following question , thoroughly artless in itself , though rather distressing to the gentleman : -- `` But , Mr. Tilney , why were you less generous than your sister ? 
He replied by asking her to make room for him , and talking of the play . 
He remained with them some time , and was only too agreeable for Catherine to be contented when he went away . 
Before they parted , however , it was agreed that the projected walk should be taken as soon as possible ; and , setting aside the misery of his quitting their box , she was , upon the whole , left one of the happiest creatures in the world . 
While talking to each other , she had observed with some surprize , that John Thorpe , who was never in the same part of the house for ten minutes together , was engaged in conversation with General Tilney ; and she felt something more than surprize , when she thought she could perceive herself the object of their attention and discourse . 
What could they have to say of her ? 
She feared General Tilney did not like her appearance : she found it was implied in his preventing her admittance to his daughter , rather than postpone his own walk a few minutes . 
was her anxious inquiry , as she pointed them out to her companion . 
Catherine was the immediate object of his gallantry ; and , while they waited in the lobby for a chair , he prevented the inquiry which had travelled from her heart almost to the tip of her tongue , by asking , in a consequential manner , whether she had seen him talking with General Tilney : -- `` He is a fine old fellow , upon my soul ! 
Here Catherine , who was much less gratified by his admiration than by General Tilney 's , was not sorry to be called away by Mr. Allen . 
The affair thus determined , and Thorpe 's approbation secured , Catherine only remained to be apprized of it . 
She had left them for a few minutes to speak to Miss Tilney . 
In that interval the plan was completed , and as soon as she came again , her agreement was demanded ; but instead of the gay acquiescence expected by Isabella , Catherine looked grave , was very sorry , but could not go . 
The engagement which ought to have kept her from joining in the former attempt , would make it impossible for her to accompany them now . 
She had that moment settled with Miss Tilney to take their promised walk to-morrow ; it was quite determined , and she would not , upon any account , retract . 
Catherine was distressed , but not subdued . 
The same arguments assailed her again ; she must go , she should go , and they would not hear of a refusal . 
She was sure her dearest , sweetest Catherine would not seriously refuse such a trifling request to a friend who loved her so dearly . 
She knew her beloved Catherine to have so feeling a heart , so sweet a temper , to be so easily persuaded by those she loved . 
But all in vain ; Catherine felt herself to be in the right , and though pained by such tender , such flattering supplication , could not allow it to influence her . 
`` I can not help being jealous , Catherine , when I see myself slighted for strangers , I , who love you so excessively ! 
Catherine thought this reproach equally strange and unkind . 
Was it the part of a friend thus to expose her feelings to the notice of others ? 
Isabella , in the meanwhile , had applied her handkerchief to her eyes ; and Morland , miserable at such a sight , could not help saying , `` Nay , Catherine . 
This was the first time of her brother 's openly siding against her , and anxious to avoid his displeasure , she proposed a compromise . 
If they would only put off their scheme till Tuesday , which they might easily do , as it depended only on themselves , she could go with them , and every body might then be satisfied . 
Catherine was sorry , but could do no more ; and a short silence ensued , which was broken by Isabella ; who in a voice of cold resentment said , `` Very well , then there is an end of the party . 
If Catherine does not go , I can not . 
`` Catherine , you must go , '' said James . 
The three others still continued together , walking in a most uncomfortable manner to poor Catherine ; sometimes not a word was said , sometimes she was again attacked with supplications or reproaches , and her arm was still linked within Isabella 's , though their hearts were at war . 
`` I did not think you had been so obstinate , Catherine , '' said James ; `` you were not used to be so hard to persuade ; you once were the kindest , best-tempered of my sisters . '' 
Catherine 's heart swelled ; she drew away her arm , and Isabella made no opposition . 
cried Catherine . '' 
Now , my sweet Catherine , all our distresses are over ; you are honourably acquitted , and we shall have a most delightful party . '' 
`` This will not do , '' said Catherine ; `` I can not submit to this . 
`` Then I will go after them , '' said Catherine ; `` wherever they are I will go after them . 
And with these words she broke away and hurried off . 
Thorpe would have darted after her , but Morland withheld him . 
Away walked Catherine in great agitation , as fast as the crowd would permit her , fearful of being pursued , yet determined to persevere . 
As she walked , she reflected on what had passed . 
It was painful to her to disappoint and displease them , particularly to displease her brother ; but she could not repent her resistance . 
Setting her own inclination apart , to have failed a second time in her engagement to Miss Tilney , to have retracted a promise voluntarily made only five minutes before , and on a false pretence too , must have been wrong . 
Catherine found that John Thorpe had given the message ; and Miss Tilney had no scruple in owning herself greatly surprized by it . 
But whether her brother had still exceeded her in resentment , Catherine , though she instinctively addressed herself as much to one as to the other in her vindication , had no means of knowing . 
And if Catherine had not most warmly asserted his innocence , it seemed likely that William would lose the favour of his master for ever , if not his place , by her rapidity . 
After sitting with them a quarter of an hour , she rose to take leave , and was then most agreeably surprized by General Tilney 's asking her if she would do his daughter the honour of dining and spending the rest of the day with her . 
Catherine was greatly obliged ; but it was quite out of her power . 
`` Oh , no ; Catherine was sure they would not have the least objection , and she should have great pleasure in coming . '' 
Catherine , delighted by all that had passed , proceeded gaily to Pulteney-street ; walking , as she concluded , with great elasticity , though she had never thought of it before . 
She reached home without seeing any thing more of the offended party ; and now that she had been triumphant throughout , had carried her point and was secure of her walk , she began -LRB- as the flutter of her spirits subsided -RRB- to doubt whether she had been perfectly right . 
A sacrifice was always noble ; and if she had given way to their entreaties , she should have been spared the distressing idea of a friend displeased , a brother angry , and a scheme of great happiness to both destroyed , perhaps through her means . 
To ease her mind , and ascertain by the opinion of an unprejudiced person what her own conduct had really been , she took occasion to mention before Mr. Allen the half-settled scheme of her brother and the Thorpes for the following day . 
`` Dear madam , '' cried Catherine , `` then why did not you tell me so before ? 
Catherine , relieved for herself , felt uneasy for Isabella ; and after a moment 's thought , asked Mr. Allen whether it would not be both proper and kind in her to write to Miss Thorpe , and explain the indecorum of which she must be as insensible as herself ; for she considered that Isabella might otherwise perhaps be going to Clifton the next day , in spite of what had passed . 
Catherine submitted ; and though sorry to think that Isabella should be doing wrong , felt greatly relieved by Mr. Allen 's approbation of her own conduct , and truly rejoiced to be preserved by his advice from the danger of falling into such an error herself . 
Thenext morning was fair , and Catherine almost expected another attack from the assembled party . 
With Mr. Allen to support her , she felt no dread of the event : but she would gladly be spared a contest , where victory itself was painful ; and was heartily rejoiced therefore at neither seeing nor hearing any thing of them . 
The Tilneys called for her at the appointed time ; and no new difficulty arising , no sudden recollection , no unexpected summons , no impertinent intrusion to disconcert their measures , my heroine was most unnaturally able to fulfil her engagement , though it was made with the hero himself . 
`` I never look at it , '' said Catherine , as they walked along the side of the river , `` without thinking of the south of France . '' 
`` I am sure , '' cried Catherine , `` I did not mean to say any thing wrong ; but it is a nice book , and why should not I call it so ? '' 
Catherine assented -- and a very warm panegyric from her on that lady 's merits , closed the subject . 
-- The Tilneys were soon engaged in another on which she had nothing to say . 
Here Catherine was quite lost . 
She knew nothing of drawing -- nothing of taste : -- and she listened to them with an attention which brought her little profit , for they talked in phrases which conveyed scarcely any idea to her . 
The little which she could understand however appeared to contradict the very few notions she had entertained on the matter before . 
She was heartily ashamed of her ignorance . 
But Catherine did not know her own advantages -- did not know that a good-looking girl , with an affectionate heart and a very ignorant mind , can not fail of attracting a clever young man , unless circumstances are particularly untoward . 
He talked of fore-grounds , distances , and second distances -- side-screens and perspectives -- lights and shades ; -- and Catherine was so hopeful a scholar , that when they gained the top of Beechen Cliff , she voluntarily rejected the whole city of Bath , as unworthy to make part of a landscape . 
Delighted with her progress , and fearful of wearying her with too much wisdom at once , Henry suffered the subject to decline , and by an easy transition from a piece of rocky fragment and the withered oak which he had placed near its summit , to oaks in general , to forests , the inclosure of them , waste lands , crown lands and government , he shortly found himself arrived at politics ; and from politics , it was an easy step to silence . 
The general pause which succeeded his short disquisition on the state of the nation , was put an end to by Catherine , who , in rather a solemn tone of voice , uttered these words , `` I have heard that something very shocking indeed , will soon come out in London . '' 
Catherine looked grave . 
It was no effort to Catherine to believe that Henry Tilney could never be wrong . 
His manner might sometimes surprize , but his meaning must always be just : -- and what she did not understand , she was almost as ready to admire , as what she did . 
The whole walk was delightful , and though it ended too soon , its conclusion was delightful too ; -- her friends attended her into the house , and Miss Tilney , before they parted , addressing herself with respectful form , as much to Mrs. Allen as to Catherine , petitioned for the pleasure of her company to dinner on the day after the next . 
No difficulty was made on Mrs. Allen 's side -- and the only difficulty on Catherine 's was in concealing the excess of her pleasure . 
The morning had passed away so charmingly as to banish all her friendship and natural affection ; for no thought of Isabella or James had crossed her during their walk . 
Towards the end of the morning however , Catherine having occasion for some indispensable yard of ribbon which must be bought without a moment 's delay , walked out into the town , and in Bond-street overtook the second Miss Thorpe , as she was loitering towards Edgar 's Buildings between two of the sweetest girls in the world , who had been her dear friends all the morning . 
Catherine spoke the pleasure she really felt on hearing this part of the arrangement . 
Catherine , a little doubtful of this , could not help answering , `` I wish you could have gone too . 
Catherine was still unconvinced ; but glad that Anne should have the friendship of an Emily and a Sophia to console her , she bade her adieu without much uneasiness , and returned home , pleased that the party had not been prevented by her refusing to join it , and very heartily wishing that it might be too pleasant to allow either James or Isabella to resent her resistance any longer . 
Early the next day , a note from Isabella , speaking peace and tenderness in every line , and entreating the immediate presence of her friend on a matter of the utmost importance , hastened Catherine , in the happiest state of confidence and curiosity , to Edgar 's Buildings . 
-- The two youngest Miss Thorpes were by themselves in the parlour ; and , on Anne 's quitting it to call her sister , Catherine took the opportunity of asking the other for some particulars of their yesterday 's party . 
Maria desired no greater pleasure than to speak of it ; and Catherine immediately learnt that it had been altogether the most delightful scheme in the world ; that nobody could imagine how charming it had been , and that it had been more delightful than any body could conceive . 
Such was the information of the first five minutes ; the second unfolded thus much in detail , -- that they had driven directly to the York Hotel , ate some soup , and bespoke an early dinner , walked down to the Pump-room , tasted the water , and laid out some shillings in purses and spars ; thence adjoined to eat ice at a pastry-cook 's , and hurrying back to the Hotel , swallowed their dinner in haste , to prevent being in the dark ; and then had a delightful drive back , only the moon was not up , and it rained a little , and Mr Morland 's horse was so tired he could hardly get it along . 
Catherine listened with heartfelt satisfaction . 
Maria was without ceremony sent away , and Isabella , embracing Catherine , thus began : -- `` Yes , my dear Catherine , it is so indeed ; your penetration has not deceived you -- Oh ! 
Catherine replied only by a look of wondering ignorance . 
my dear Catherine , you alone who know my heart can judge of my present happiness . 
Catherine 's understanding began to awake : an idea of the truth suddenly darted into her mind ; and , with the natural blush of so new an emotion , she cried out , `` Good heaven ! 
This bold surmise , however , she soon learnt comprehended but half the fact . 
The anxious affection , which she was accused of having continually watched in Isabella 's every look and action , had , in the course of their yesterday 's party , received the delightful confession of an equal love . 
Her heart and faith were alike engaged to James -- Never had Catherine listened to any thing so full of interest , wonder , and joy . 
Her brother and her friend engaged ! 
-- New to such circumstances , the importance of it appeared unspeakably great , and she contemplated it as one of those grand events , of which the ordinary course of life can hardly afford a return . 
The strength of her feelings she could not express ; the nature of them , however , contented her friend . 
Delighting , however , as Catherine sincerely did in the prospect of the connexion , it must be acknowledged that Isabella far surpassed her in tender anticipations . 
-- `` You will be so infinitely dearer to me , my Catherine , than either Anne or Maria : I feel that I shall be so much more attached to my dear Morland 's family than to my own . '' 
This was a pitch of friendship beyond Catherine . 
The very first day that Morland came to us last Christmas -- the very first moment I beheld him -- my heart was irrecoverably gone . 
Here Catherine secretly acknowledged the power of love ; for , though exceedingly fond of her brother , and partial to all his endowments , she had never in her life thought him handsome . 
Catherine , the many sleepless nights I have had on your brother 's account ! 
Catherine felt that nothing could have been safer ; but ashamed of an ignorance little expected , she dared no longer contest the point , nor refuse to have been as full of arch penetration and affectionate sympathy as Isabella chose to consider her . 
Catherine endeavoured to persuade her , as she was herself persuaded , that her father and mother would never oppose their son 's wishes . 
-- `` It is impossible , '' said she ; `` for parents to be more kind , or more desirous of their children 's happiness ; I have no doubt of their consenting immediately . '' 
`` Morland says exactly the same , '' replied Isabella ; `` and yet I dare not expect it ; my fortune will be so small ; they never can consent to it . 
Here Catherine again discerned the force of love . 
my sweet Catherine , in your generous heart I know it would signify nothing ; but we must not expect such disinterestedness in many . 
This charming sentiment , recommended as much by sense as novelty , gave Catherine a most pleasing remembrance of all the heroines of her acquaintance ; and she thought her friend never looked more lovely than in uttering the grand idea . 
-- `` I am sure they will consent , '' was her frequent declaration ; `` I am sure they will be delighted with you . '' 
cried Catherine . 
Morland says that by sending it to-night to Salisbury , we may have it to-morrow . 
Catherine wished to congratulate him , but knew not what to say , and her eloquence was only in her eyes . 
Twice was he called almost from the door by her eagerness to have him gone . 
`` Indeed , Morland , I must drive you away . 
To Catherine 's simple feelings , this odd sort of reserve seemed neither kindly meant , nor consistently supported ; and its unkindness she would hardly have forborn pointing out , had its inconsistency been less their friend ; -- but Anne and Maria soon set her heart at ease by the sagacity of their `` I know what ; '' and the evening was spent in a sort of war of wit , a display of family ingenuity ; on one side in the mystery of an affected secret , on the other of undefined discovery , all equally acute . 
Catherine was with her friend again the next day , endeavouring to support her spirits , and while away the many tedious hours before the delivery of the letters ; a needful exertion , for as the time of reasonable expectation drew near , Isabella became more and more desponding , and before the letter arrived , had worked herself into a state of real distress . 
It was `` dear John , '' and `` dear Catherine '' at every word ; -- `` dear Anne and dear Maria '' must immediately be made sharers in their felicity ; and two `` dears '' at once before the name of Isabella were not more than that beloved child had now well earned . 
Catherine wished him a good journey . 
Without appearing to hear her , he walked to the window , fidgetted about , hummed a tune , and seemed wholly self-occupied . 
said Catherine . 
A clever fancy of Morland 's and Belle 's . 
replied Catherine -- finding that he waited for an answer . 
And away she went . 
It was not in the power of all his gallantry to detain her longer . 
With such news to communicate , and such a visit to prepare for , her departure was not to be delayed by any thing in his nature to urge ; and she hurried away , leaving him to the undivided consciousness of his own happy address , and her explicit encouragement . 
The agitation which she had herself experienced on first learning her brother 's engagement , made her expect to raise no inconsiderable emotion in Mr. and Mrs. Allen , by the communication of the wonderful event . 
How great was her disappointment ! 
The important affair , which many words of preparation ushered in , had been foreseen by them both ever since her brother 's arrival ; and all that they felt on the occasion was comprehended in a wish for the young people 's happiness , with a remark , on the gentleman 's side , in favour of Isabella 's beauty , and on the lady 's , of her great good luck . 
It was to Catherine the most surprizing insensibility . 
Catherine 's expectations of pleasure from her visit in Milsom-street were so very high , that disappointment was inevitable ; and accordingly , though she was most politely received by General Tilney , and kindly welcomed by his daughter , though Henry was at home , and no one else of the party , she found , on her return , without spending many hours in the examination of her feelings , that she had gone to her appointment preparing for happiness which it had not afforded . 
Let me entreat you never to think of him again , my dear Catherine ; indeed he is unworthy of you . '' 
Catherine , meanwhile , undisturbed by presentiments of such an evil , or of any evil at all , except that of having but a short set to dance down , enjoyed her usual happiness with Henry Tilney , listening with sparkling eyes to every thing he said ; and , in finding him irresistible , becoming so herself . 
At the end of the first dance , Captain Tilney came towards them again , and , much to Catherine 's dissatisfaction , pulled his brother away . 
They retired whispering together ; and , though her delicate sensibility did not take immediate alarm , and lay it down as fact , that Captain Tilney must have heard some malevolent misrepresentation of her , which he now hastened to communicate to his brother , in the hope of separating them for ever , she could not have her partner conveyed from her sight without very uneasy sensations . 
Her suspense was of full five minutes ' duration ; and she was beginning to think it a very long quarter of an hour , when they both returned , and an explanation was given , by Henry 's requesting to know , if she thought her friend , Miss Thorpe , would have any objection to dancing , as his brother would be most happy to be introduced to her . 
Catherine , without hesitation , replied , that she was very sure Miss Thorpe did not mean to dance at all . 
Catherine blushed and disclaimed , and the gentleman 's predictions were verified . 
There was a something , however , in his words which repaid her for the pain of confusion ; and that something occupied her mind so much , that she drew back for some time , forgetting to speak or to listen , and almost forgetting where she was ; till , roused by the voice of Isabella , she looked up and saw her with Captain Tilney preparing to give them hands across . 
Isabella shrugged her shoulders and smiled , the only explanation of this extraordinary change which could at that time be given ; but as it was not quite enough for Catherine 's comprehension , she spoke her astonishment in very plain terms to her partner . 
Catherine , whose expectations had been as unfixed as her ideas of her father 's income , and whose judgment was now entirely led by her brother , felt equally well satisfied , and heartily congratulated Isabella on having every thing so pleasantly settled . 
`` It is not on my own account I wish for more ; but I can not bear to be the means of injuring my dear Morland , making him sit down upon an income hardly enough to find one in the common necessaries of life . 
There never was a young woman so beloved as you are by every body that knows you ; and I dare say when Mr. Morland sees you , my dear child -- but do not let us distress our dear Catherine by talking of such things . 
Catherine was hurt by these insinuations . 
`` I am very sure , '' said she , `` that my father has promised to do as much as he can afford . '' 
`` As to that , my sweet Catherine , there can not be a doubt , and you know me well enough to be sure that a much smaller income would satisfy me . 
my Catherine , you have found me out . 
Catherine 's uncomfortable feelings began to lessen . 
She endeavoured to believe that the delay of the marriage was the only source of Isabella 's regret ; and when she saw her at their next interview as cheerful and amiable as ever , endeavoured to forget that she had for a minute thought otherwise . 
The Allens had now entered on the sixth week of their stay in Bath ; and whether it should be the last , was for some time a question , to which Catherine listened with a beating heart . 
To have her acquaintance with the Tilneys end so soon , was an evil which nothing could counterbalance . 
Her whole happiness seemed at stake , while the affair was in suspense , and every thing secured when it was determined that the lodgings should be taken for another fortnight . 
What this additional fortnight was to produce to her beyond the pleasure of sometimes seeing Henry Tilney , made but a small part of Catherine 's speculation . 
Once or twice indeed , since James 's engagement had taught her what could be done , she had got so far as to indulge in a secret `` perhaps , '' but in general the felicity of being with him for the present bounded her views the present was now comprised in another three weeks , and her happiness being certain for that period , the rest of her life was at such a distance as to excite but little interest . 
In the course of the morning which saw this business arranged , she visited Miss Tilney , and poured forth her joyful feelings . 
No sooner had she expressed her delight in Mr. Allen 's lengthened stay , than Miss Tilney told her of her father 's having just determined upon quitting Bath by the end of another week . 
Catherine 's countenance fell , and in a voice of most sincere concern she echoed Miss Tilney 's concluding words , `` By the end of another week ! '' 
`` I am very sorry for it , '' said Catherine dejectedly , `` if I had known this before -- '' `` Perhaps , '' said Miss Tilney in an embarrassed manner , `` you would be so good -- it would make me very happy if -- '' The entrance of her father put a stop to the civility , which Catherine was beginning to hope might introduce a desire of their corresponding . 
After addressing her with his usual politeness , he turned to his daughter and said , `` Well , Eleanor , may I congratulate you on being successful in your application to your fair friend ? '' 
-- These were thrilling words , and wound up Catherine 's feelings to the highest point of extasy . 
Her grateful and gratified heart could hardly restrain its expressions within the language of tolerable calmness . 
To have her company so warmly solicited ! 
Every thing honourable and soothing , every present enjoyment , and every future hope was contained in it ; and her acceptance , with only the saving clause of papa and mamma 's approbation was eagerly given . 
-- `` I will write home directly , '' said she , `` and if they do not object , as I dare say they will not '' -- General Tilney was not less sanguine , having already waited on her excellent friends in Pulteney-street , and obtained their sanction of his wishes . 
The circumstances of the morning had led Catherine 's feelings through the varieties of suspense , security , and disappointment ; but they were now safely lodged in perfect bliss ; and with spirits elated to rapture , with Henry at her heart , and Northanger Abbey on her lips , she hurried home to write her letter . 
This indulgence , though not more than Catherine had hoped for , completed her conviction of being favoured beyond every other human creature , in friends and fortune , circumstance and chance . 
Every thing seemed to co-operate for her advantage . 
By the kindness of her first friends the Allens , she had been introduced into scenes , where pleasures of every kind had met her . 
Her feelings , her preferences had each known the happiness of a return . 
Wherever she felt attachment , she had been able to create it . 
With a mind thus full of happiness , Catherine was hardly aware that two or three days had passed away , without her seeing Isabella for more than a few minutes together . 
She began first to be sensible of this , and to sigh for her conversation , as she walked along the Pump-room one morning , by Mrs. Allen 's side , without any thing to say or to hear ; and scarcely had she felt a five minutes ' longing of friendship , before the object of it appeared , and inviting her to a secret conference , led the way to a seat . 
Catherine , observing that Isabella 's eyes were continually bent towards one door or the other , as in eager expectation , and remembering how often she had been falsely accused of being arch , thought the present a fine opportunity for being really so ; and therefore gaily said , `` Do not be uneasy , Isabella . 
my dear creature , '' she replied , `` do not think me such a simpleton as to be always wanting to confine him to my elbow . 
`` Nay , my sweetest Catherine , this is being quite absurd ! 
Catherine , with all the earnestness of truth , expressed her astonishment at such a charge , protesting her innocence of every thought of Mr. Thorpe 's being in love with her , and the consequent impossibility of her having ever intended to encourage him . 
-- Well , my dear Catherine , the case seems to be , that you are determined against poor John -- is not it so ? '' 
`` My dearest Catherine , '' continued the other without at all listening to her , `` I would not for all the world be the means of hurrying you into an engagement before you knew what you were about . 
But , above all things , my dear Catherine , do not be in a hurry . 
Catherine , looking up , perceived Captain Tilney ; and Isabella , earnestly fixing her eye on him as she spoke , soon caught his notice . 
His first address made Catherine start . 
Though spoken low , she could distinguish , `` What ! 
Catherine heard all this , and quite out of countenance could listen no longer . 
She was so amazingly tired , and it was so odious to parade about the Pump-room ; and if she moved from her seat she should miss her sisters , she was expecting her sisters every moment ; so that her dearest Catherine must excuse her , and must sit quietly down again . 
But Catherine could be stubborn too ; and Mrs. Allen just then coming up to propose their returning home , she joined her and walked out of the Pump-room , leaving Isabella still sitting with Captain Tilney . 
Catherine longed to give her a hint of it , to put her on her guard , and prevent all the pain which her too lively behaviour might otherwise create both for him and her brother . 
A few days passed away , and Catherine , though not allowing herself to suspect her friend , could not help watching her closely . 
The result of her observations was not agreeable . 
A something of languid indifference , or of that boasted absence of mind which Catherine had never heard of before , would occasionally come across her ; but had nothing worse appeared , that might only have spread a new grace and inspired a warmer interest . 
But when Catherine saw her in public , admitting Captain Tilney 's attentions as readily as they were offered , and allowing him almost an equal share with James in her notice and smiles , the alteration became too positive to be past over . 
What could be meant by such unsteady conduct , what her friend could be at , was beyond her comprehension . 
Isabella could not be aware of the pain she was inflicting ; but it was a degree of wilful thoughtlessness which Catherine could not but resent . 
She saw him grave and uneasy ; and however careless of his present comfort the woman might be who had given him her heart , to her it was always an object . 
When Catherine knew this , her resolution was directly made . 
She spoke to Henry Tilney on the subject , regretting his brother 's evident partiality for Miss Thorpe , and entreating him to make known her prior engagement . 
`` No , he does not know what he is about , '' cried Catherine ; `` he does not know the pain he is giving my brother . 
Catherine blushed for her friend , and said , `` Isabella is wrong . 
After a short pause , Catherine resumed with `` Then you do not believe Isabella so very much attached to my brother ? '' 
`` Well , '' said Catherine , after some moments ' consideration , `` you may be able to guess at your brother 's intentions from all this ; but I am sure I can not . 
Perceiving her still to look doubtful and grave , he added , `` Though Frederick does not leave Bath with us , he will probably remain but a very short time , perhaps only a few days behind us . 
Catherine would contend no longer against comfort . 
She had resisted its approaches during the whole length of a speech , but it now carried her captive . 
She blamed herself for the extent of her fears , and resolved never to think so seriously on the subject again . 
Her resolution was supported by Isabella 's behaviour in their parting interview . 
The Thorpes spent the last evening of Catherine 's stay in Pulteney-street , and nothing passed between the lovers to excite her uneasiness , or make her quit them in apprehension . 
Her tenderness for her friend seemed rather the first feeling of her heart ; but that at such a moment was allowable ; and once she gave her lover a flat contradiction , and once she drew back her hand ; but Catherine remembered Henry 's instructions , and placed it all to judicious affection . 
Catherine 's spirits revived as they drove from the door ; for with Miss Tilney she felt no restraint ; and , with the interest of a road entirely new to her , of an abbey before , and a curricle behind , she caught the last view of Bath without any regret , and met with every mile-stone before she expected it . 
Had their party been perfectly agreeable , the delay would have been nothing ; but General Tilney , though so charming a man , seemed always a check upon his children 's spirits , and scarcely any thing was said but by himself ; the observation of which , with his discontent at whatever the inn afforded , and his angry impatience at the waiters , made Catherine grow every moment more in awe of him , and appeared to lengthen the two hours into four . 
-- At last , however , the order of release was given ; and much was Catherine then surprized by the General 's proposal of her taking his place in his son 's curricle for the rest of the journey : -- `` the day was fine , and he was anxious for her seeing as much of the country as possible . '' 
The remembrance of Mr. Allen 's opinion , respecting young men 's open carriages , made her blush at the mention of such a plan , and her first thought was to decline it ; but her second was of greater deference for General Tilney 's judgment ; he could not propose any thing improper for her ; and , in the course of a few minutes , she found herself with Henry in the curricle , as happy a being as ever existed . 
A very short trial convinced her that a curricle was the prettiest equipage in the world ; the chaise-and-four wheeled off with some grandeur , to be sure , but it was a heavy and troublesome business , and she could not easily forget its having stopped two hours at Petty-France . 
But the merit of the curricle did not all belong to the horses ; -- Henry drove so well , -- so quietly -- without making any disturbance , without parading to her , or swearing at them ; so different from the only gentleman-coachman whom it was in her power to compare him with ! 
In addition to every other delight , she had now that of listening to her own praise ; of being thanked at least , on his sister 's account , for her kindness in thus becoming her visitor ; of hearing it ranked as real friendship , and described as creating real gratitude . 
said Catherine , `` are not you with her ? '' 
But Henry was too much amused by the interest he had raised , to be able to carry it farther ; he could no longer command solemnity either of subject or voice , and was obliged to entreat her to use her own fancy in the perusal of Matilda 's woes . 
Catherine , recollecting herself , grew ashamed of her eagerness , and began earnestly to assure him that her attention had been fixed without the smallest apprehension of really meeting with what he related . 
As they drew near the end of their journey , her impatience for a sight of the abbey -- for some time suspended by his conversation on subjects very different -- returned in full force , and every bend in the road was expected with solemn awe to afford a glimpse of its massy walls of grey stone , rising amidst a grove of ancient oaks , with the last beams of the sun playing in beautiful splendour on its high Gothic windows . 
But so low did the building stand , that she found herself passing through the great gates of the lodge into the very grounds of North-anger , without having discerned even an antique chimney . 
She knew not that she had any right to be surprized , but there was a something in this mode of approach which she certainly had not expected . 
To pass between lodges of a modern appearance , to find herself with such ease in the very precincts of the abbey , and driven so rapidly along a smooth , level road of fine gravel , without obstacle , alarm or solemnity of any kind , struck her as odd and inconsistent . 
She was not long at leisure however for such considerations . 
A sudden scud of rain driving full in her face , made it impossible for her to observe any thing further , and fixed all her thoughts on the welfare of her new straw bonnet : -- and she was actually under the Abbey walls , was springing , with Henry 's assistance , from the carriage , was beneath the shelter of the old porch , and had even passed on to the hall , where her friend and the General were waiting to welcome her , without feeling one aweful foreboding of future misery to herself , or one moment 's suspicion of any past scenes of horror being acted within the solemn edifice . 
The breeze had not seemed to waft the sighs of the murdered to her ; it had wafted nothing worse than a thick mizzling rain ; and having given a good shake to her habit , she was ready to be shewn into the common drawing-room , and capable of considering where she was . 
-- but she doubted , as she looked round the room , whether any thing within her observation , would have given her the consciousness . 
The fire-place , where she had expected the ample width and ponderous carving of former times , was contracted to a Rumford , with slabs of plain though handsome marble , and ornameuts over it of the prettiest English china . 
The windows , to which she looked with peculiar dependence , from having heard the General talk of his preserving them in their Gothic form with reverential care , were yet less what her fancy had portrayed . 
The General , perceiving how her eye was employed , began to talk of the smallness of the room and simplicity of the furniture , where every thing being for daily use , pretended only to comfort , & c. ; flattering himself however that there some apartments in the Abbey not unworthy her notice -- and was proceeding to mention the costly gilding of one in particular , when taking out his watch , he stopped short to pronounce it with surprize within twenty minutes of five ! 
This seemed the word of separation , and Catherine found herself hurried away by Miss Tilney in such a manner as convinced her that the strictest punctuality to the family hours would be expected at Northanger . 
On one side it had a range of doors , and it was lighted on the other by windows which Catherine had only time to discover looked into a quadrangle , before Miss Tilney led the way into a chamber , and scarcely staying to hope she would find it comfortable , left her with an anxious entreaty that she would make as little alteration as possible in her dress . 
A moment 's glance was enough to satisfy Catherine that her apartment was very unlike the one which Henry had endeavoured to alarm her by the description of . 
Her heart instantaneously at ease on this point , she resolved to lose no time in particular examination of anything , as she greatly dreaded disobliging the General by any delay . 
Her habit therefore was thrown off with all possible haste , and she was preparing to unpin the linen package , which the chaise-seat had conveyed for her immediate accommodation , when her eye suddenly fell on a large high chest , standing back in a deep recess on one side of the fire-place . 
The sight of it made her start ; and , forgetting every thing else , she stood gazing on it in motionless wonder , while these thoughts crossed her : -- `` This is strange indeed ! 
She advanced and examined it closely : it was of cedar , curiously inlaid with some darker wood , and raised , about a foot from the ground , on a carved stand of the same . 
Catherine bent over it intently , but without being able to distinguish any thing with certainty . 
She could not , in whatever direction she took it , believe the last letter to be a T ; and yet that it should be any thing else in that house was a circumstance to raise no common degree of astonishment . 
Her fearful curiosity was every moment growing greater ; and seizing , with trembling hands , the hasp of the lock , she resolved at all hazards to satisfy herself at least as to its contents . 
With difficulty , for something seemed to resist her efforts , she raised the lid a few inches ; but at that moment a sudden knocking at the door of the room made her , starting , quit her hold , and the lid closed with alarming violence . 
This ill-timed intruder was Miss Tilney 's maid , sent by her mistress to be of use to Miss Morland ; and though Catherine immediately dismissed her , it recalled her to the sense of what she ought to be doing , and forced her , in spite of her anxious desire to penetrate this mystery , to proceed in her dressing without further delay . 
Her progress was not quick , for her thoughts and her eyes were still bent on the object so well calculated to interest and alarm ; and though she dared not waste a moment upon a second attempt , she could not remain many paces from the chest . 
At length , however , having slipped one arm into her gown , her toilette seemed so nearly finished , that the impatience of her curiosity might safely be indulged . 
One moment surely might be spared ; and , so desperate should be the exertion of her strength , that , unless secured by supernatural means , the lid in one moment should be thrown back . 
With this spirit she sprang forward , and her confidence did not deceive her . 
Her resolute effort threw back the lid , and gave to her astonished eyes the view of a white cotton counterpane , properly folded , reposing at one end of the chest in undisputed possession ! 
She was gazing on it with the first blush of surprize , when Miss Tilney , anxious for her friend 's being ready , entered the room , and to the rising shame of having harboured for some minutes an absurd expectation , was then added the shame of being caught in so idle a search . 
said Miss Tilney , as Catherine hastily closed it and turned away to the glass . 
Catherine had no leisure for speech , being at once blushing , tying her gown , and forming wise resolutions with the most violent dispatch . 
Catherine trembled at the emphasis with which he spoke , and sat pale and breathless , in a most humble mood , concerned for his children , and detesting old chests ; and the General recovering his politeness as he looked at her , spent the rest of his time in scolding his daughter , for so foolishly hurrying her fair friend , who was absolutely out of breath from haste , when there was not the least occasion for hurry in the world : but Catherine could not at all get over the double distress of having involved her friend in a lecture and been a great simpleton herself , till they were happily seated at the dinner-table , when the General 's complacent smiles , and a good appetite of her own , restored her to peace . 
The dining-parlour was a noble room , suitable in its dimensions to a much larger drawing-room than the one in common use , and fitted up in a style of luxury and expense which was almost lost on the unpractised eye of Catherine , who saw little more than its spaciousness and the number of their attendants . 
Of the former , she spoke aloud her admiration ; and the General , with a very gracious countenance , acknowledged that it was by no means an ill-sized room ; and further confessed , that , though as careless on such subjects as most people , he did look upon a tolerably large eating-room as one of the necessaries of life ; he supposed , however , `` that she must have been used to much better sized apartments at Mr. Allen 's ? '' 
`` No , indeed , '' was Catherine 's honest assurance ; `` Mr. Allen 's dining-parlour was not more than half as large : '' and she had never seen so large a room as this in her life . 
It was only in his presence that Catherine felt the smallest fatigue from her journey ; and even then , even in moments of languor or restraint , a sense of general happiness preponderated , and she could think of her friends in Bath without one wish of being with them . 
Catherine , as she crossed the hall , listened to the tempest with sensations of awe ; and , when she heard it rage round a corner of the ancient building and close with sudden fury a distant door , felt for the first time that she was really in an Abbey . 
-- Yes , these were characteristic sounds ; -- they brought to her recollection a countless variety of dreadful situations and horrid scenes , which such buildings had witnessed , and such storms ushered in ; and most heartily did she rejoice in the happier circumstances attending her entrance within walls so solemn ! 
-- She had nothing to dread from midnight assassins or drunken gallants . 
Henry had certainly been only in jest in what he had told her that morning . 
In a house so furnished , and so guarded , she could have nothing to explore or to suffer ; and might go to her bedroom as securely as if it had been her own chamber at Fullerton . 
Thus wisely fortifying her mind , as she proceeded up stairs , she was enabled , especially on perceiving that Miss Tilney slept only two doors from her , to enter her room with a tolerably stout heart ; and her spirits were immediately assisted by the cheerful blaze of a wood fire . 
The fire therefore died away , and Catherine , having spent the best part of an hour in her arrangements , was beginning to think of stepping into bed , when , on giving a parting glance round the room , she was struck by the appearance of a high , old-fashioned black cabinet , which , though in a situation conspicuous enough , had never caught her notice before . 
Henry 's words , his description of the ebony cabinet which was to escape her observation at first , immediately rushed across her ; and though there could be nothing really in it , there was something whimsical , it was certainly a very remarkable coincidence ! 
She took her candle and looked closely at the cabinet . 
It was not absolutely ebony and gold ; but it was Japan , black and yellow Japan of the handsomest kind ; and as she held her candle , the yellow had very much the effect of gold . 
The key was in the door , and she had a strange fancy to look into it ; not however with the smallest expectation of finding any thing , but it was so very odd , after what Henry had said . 
In short , she could not sleep till she had examined it . 
So , placing the candle with great caution on a chair , she seized the key with a very tremulous hand and tried to turn it ; but it resisted her utmost strength . 
Alarmed , but not discouraged , she tried it another way ; a bolt flew , and she believed herself successful ; but how strangely mysterious ! 
She paused a moment in breathless wonder . 
The wind roared down the chimney , the rain beat in torrents against the windows , and every thing seemed to speak the awfulness of her situation . 
To retire to bed , however , unsatisfied on such a point , would be vain , since sleep must be impossible with the consciousness of a cabinet so mysteriously closed in her immediate vicinity . 
Again therefore she applied herself to the key , and after moving it in every possible way for some instants with the determined celerity of hope 's last effort , the door suddenly yielded to her hand : her heart leaped with exultation at such a victory , and having thrown open each folding door , the second being secured only by bolts of less wonderful construction than the lock , though in that her eye could not discern any thing unusual , a double range of small drawers appeared in view , with some larger drawers above and below them ; and in the centre , a small door , closed also with a lock and key , secured in all probability a cavity of importance . 
Catherine 's heart beat quick , but her courage did not fail her . 
With a cheek flushed by hope , and an eye straining with curiosity , her fingers grasped the handle of a drawer and drew it forth . 
With less alarm and greater eagerness she seized a second , a third , a fourth ; each was equally empty . 
Well read in the art of concealing a treasure , the possibility of false linings to the drawers did not escape her , and she felt round each with anxious acuteness in vain . 
The place in the middle alone remained now unexplored ; and though she had `` never from the first had the smallest idea of finding any thing in any part of the cabinet , and was not in the least disappointed at her ill success thus far , it would be foolish not to examine it thoroughly while she was about it . '' 
It was some time however before she could unfasten the door , the same difficulty occurring in the management of this inner lock as of the outer ; but at length it did open ; and not vain , as hitherto , was her search ; her quick eyes directly fell on a roll of paper pushed back into the further part of the cavity , apparently for concealment , and her feelings at that moment were indescribable . 
Her heart fluttered , her knees trembled , and her cheeks grew pale . 
She seized , with an unsteady hand , the precious manuscript , for half a glance sufficed to ascertain written characters ; and while she acknowledged with awful sensations this striking exemplification of what Henry had foretold , resolved instantly to peruse every line before she attempted to rest . 
The dimness of the light her candle emitted made her turn to it with alarm ; but there was no danger of its sudden extinction , it had yet some hours to burn ; and that she might not have any greater difficulty in distinguishing the writing than what its ancient date might occasion , she hastily snuffed it . 
Catherine , for a few moments , was motionless with horror . 
Catherine trembled from head to foot . 
In the pause which succeeded , a sound like receding footsteps and the closing of a distant door struck on her affrighted ear . 
A cold sweat stood on her forehead , the manuscript fell from her hand , and groping her way to the bed , she jumped hastily in , and sought some suspension of agony by creeping far underneath the clothes . 
To close her eyes in sleep that night , she felt must be entirely out of the question . 
-- She had not been used to feel alarm from wind , but now every blast seemed fraught with awful intelligence . 
-- and how singularly strange that it should fall to her lot to discover it ! 
Till she had made herself mistress of its contents , however , she could have neither repose nor comfort ; and with the sun 's first rays she was determined to peruse it . 
She shuddered , tossed about in her bed , and envied every quiet sleeper . 
The storm still raged , and various were the noises , more terrific even than the wind , which struck at intervals on her startled ear . 
The very curtains of her bed seemed at one moment in motion , and at another the lock of her door was agitated , as if by the attempt of somebody to enter . 
Hollow murmurs seemed to creep along the gallery , and more than once her blood was chilled by the sound of distant moans . 
Hour after hour passed away , and the wearied Catherine had heard three proclaimed by all the clocks in the house , before the tempest subsided , or she unknowingly fell fast asleep . 
The housemaid 's folding back her window-shutters at eight o'clock the next day , was the sound which first roused Catherine ; and she opened her eyes , wondering that they could ever have been closed , on objects of cheerfulness ; her fire was already burning , and a bright morning had succeeded the tempest of the night . 
Instantaneously with the consciousness of existence , returned her recollection of the manuscript ; and springing from the bed in the very moment of the maid 's going away , she eagerly collected every scattered sheet which had burst from the roll on its falling to the ground , and flew back to enjoy the luxury of their perusal on her pillow . 
Catherine was saved the embarrassment of attempting an answer , by the entrance of the General , whose smiling compliments announced a happy state of mind , but whose gentle hint of sympathetic early rising did not advance her composure . 
The elegance of the breakfast set forced itself on Catherine 's notice when they were seated at table ; and , luckily , it had been the General 's choice . 
He was enchanted by her approbation of his taste , confessed it to be neat and simple , thought it right to encourage the manufacture of his country ; and for his part , to his uncritical palate , the tea was as well flavoured from the clay of Staffordshire , as from that of Dresden or Sêve . 
Catherine was probably the only one of the party who did not understand him . 
They all attended in the hall to see him mount his horse , and immediately on re-entering the breakfast room , Catherine walked to a window in the hope of catching another glimpse of his figure . 
asked Catherine . 
Something had been said the evening before of her being shewn over the house , and he now offered himself as her conductor ; and though Catherine had hoped to explore it accompanied only by his daughter , it was a proposal of too much happiness in itself , under any circumstances , not to be gladly accepted ; for she had been already eighteen hours in the Abbey , and had seen only a few of its rooms . 
The netting-box , just leisurely drawn forth , was closed with joyful haste , and she was ready to attend him in a moment . 
She curtsied her acquiescence . 
He left the room , and Catherine , with a disappointed , anxious face , began to speak of her unwillingness that he should be taking them out of doors against his own inclination , under a mistaken idea of pleasing her ; but she was stopt by Miss Tilney 's saying , with a little confusion , `` I believe it will be wisest to take the morning while it is so fine ; and do not be uneasy on my father 's account , he always walks out at this time of day . '' 
Catherine did not exactly know how this was to be understood . 
Catherine had seen nothing to compare with it ; and her feelings of delight were so strong , that without waiting for any better authority , she boldly burst forth in wonder and praise . 
The number of acres contained in this garden was such as Catherine could not listen to without dismay , being more than double the extent of all Mr. Allen 's , as well her father 's , including church-yard and orchard . 
The General was flattered by her looks of surprize , which told him almost as plainly , as he soon forced her to tell him in words , that she had never seen any gardens at all equal to them before ; -- and he then modestly owned that , `` without any ambition of that sort himself -- without any solicitude about it , -- he did believe them to be unrivalled in the kingdom . 
Having taken her into every division , and led her under every wall , till she was heartily weary of seeing and wondering , he suffered the girls at last to seize the advantage of an outer door , and then expressing his wish to examine the effect of some recent alterations about the tea-house , proposed it as no unpleasant extension of their walk , if Miss Morland were not tired . 
It was a narrow winding path through a thick grove of old Scotch firs ; and Catherine , struck by its gloomy aspect , and eager to enter it , could not , even by the General 's disapprobation , be kept from stepping forward . 
He perceived her inclination , and having again urged the plea of health in vain , was too polite to make further opposition . 
He turned away ; and Catherine was shocked to find how much her spirits were relieved by the separation . 
The shock however being less real than the relief , offered it no injury ; and she began to talk with easy gaiety of the delightful melancholy which such a grove inspired . 
`` I am particularly fond of this spot , '' said her companion , with a sigh . 
Catherine had never heard Mrs. Tilney mentioned in the family before , and the interest excited by this tender remembrance , shewed itself directly in her altered countenance , and in the attentive pause with which she waited for something more . 
`` And ought it not , '' reflected Catherine , `` to endear it to her husband ? 
-- were questions now eagerly poured forth ; -- the first three received a ready affirmative , the two others were passed by ; and Catherine 's interest in the deceased Mrs. Tilney augmented with every question , whether answered or not . 
Catherine attempted no longer to hide from herself the nature of the feelings which , in spite of all his attentions , he had previously excited ; and what had been terror and dislike before , was now absolute aversion . 
This second instance of his anxiety to delay what she so much wished for , struck Catherine as very remarkable . 
Miss Tilney , understanding in part her friend 's curiosity to see the house , soon revived the subject ; and her father being , contrary to Catherine 's expectations , unprovided with any pretence for further delay , beyond that of stopping five minutes to order refreshments to be in the room by their return , was at last ready to escort them . 
They set forward ; and , with a grandeur of air , a dignified step , which caught the eye , but could not shake the doubts of the well-read Catherine , he led the way across the hall , through the common drawing-room and one useless anti-chamber , into a room magnificent both in size and furniture -- the real drawing-room , used only with company of consequence . 
-- was all that Catherine had to say , for her indiscriminating eye scarcely discerned the colour of the satin ; and all minuteness of praise , all praise that had much meaning , was supplied by the General : the costliness or elegance of any room 's fitting-up could be nothing to her ; she cared for no furniture of a more modern date than the fifteenth century . 
-- Catherine heard , admired , and wondered with more genuine feeling than before -- gathered all that she could from this storehouse of knowledge , by running over the titles of half a shelf , and was ready to proceed . 
But suites of apartments did not spring up with her wishes . 
-- Large as was the building , she had already visited the greatest part ; though , on being told that , with the addition of the kitchen , the six or seven rooms she had now seen surrounded three sides of the court , she could scarcely believe it , or overcome the suspicion of there being many chambers secreted . 
It was some relief , however , that they were to return to the rooms in common use , by passing through a few of less importance , looking into the court , which , with occasional passages , not wholly unintricate , connected the different sides ; -- and she was further soothed in her progress , by being told , that she was treading what had once been a cloister , having traces of cells pointed out , and observing several doors , that were neither opened nor explained to her ; -- by finding herself successively in a billiard-room , and in the General 's private apartment , without comprehending their connexion , or being able to turn aright when she left them ; and lastly , by passing through a dark little room , owning Henry 's authority , and strewed with his litter of books , guns , and great coats . 
Catherine could have raved at the hand which had swept away what must have been beyond the value of all the rest , for the purposes of mere domestic economy ; and would willingly have been spared the mortification of a walk through scenes so fallen , had the General allowed it ; but if he had a vavity , it was in the arrangement of his offices ; and as he was convinced , that , to a mind like Miss Morland 's , a view of the accommodations and comforts , by which the labours of her inferiors were softened , must always be gratifying , he should make no apology for leading her on . 
They took a slight survey of all ; and Catherine was impressed , beyond her expectation , by their multiplicity and their convenience . 
The number of servants continually appearing , did not strike her less than the number of their offices . 
How they could get through it all , had often amazed Mrs. Allen ; and , when Catherine saw what was necessary here , she began to be amazed herself . 
They returned to the hall , that the chief stair-case might be ascended , and the beauty of its wood , and ornaments of rich carving might be pointed out : having gained the top , they turned in an opposite direction from the gallery in which her room lay , and shortly entered one on the same plan , but superior in length and breadth . 
She was here shewn successively into three largebed-chambers , with their dressingrooms , most completely and handsomely fitted up ; every thing that money and taste could do , to give comfort and elegance to apartments , had been bestowed on these ; and , being furnished within the last five years , they were perfect in all that would be generally pleasing , and wanting in all that could give pleasure to Catherine . 
As they were surveying the last , the General , after slightly naming a few of the distinguished characters , by whom they had at times been honoured , turned with a smiling countenance to Catherine , and ventured to hope , that henceforward some of their earliest tenants might be `` our friends from Fullerton . '' 
She felt the unexpected compliment , and deeply regretted the impossibility of thinking well of a man so kindly disposed towards herself , and so full of civility to all her family . 
The gallery was terminated by folding doors , which Miss Tilney , advancing , had thrown open , and passed through , and seemed on the point of doing the same by the first door to the left , in another long reach of gallery , when the General , coming forwards , called her hastily , and , as Catherine thought , rather angrily back , demanding whither she were going ? 
Miss Tilney drew back directly , and the heavy doors were closed upon the mortified Catherine , who , having seen , in a momentary glance beyond them , a narrower passage , more numerous openings , and symptoms of a winding stair-case , believed herself at last within the reach of something worth her notice ; and felt , as she unwillingly paced back the gallery , that she would rather be allowed to examine that end of the house , than see all the finery of all the rest . 
Something was certainly to be concealed ; her fancy , though it had trespassed lately once or twice , could not mislead her here ; and what that something was , a short sentence of Miss Tilney 's , as they followed the General at some distance down stairs , seemed to point out . 
-- `` I was going to take you into what was my mother 's room -- the room in which she died -- '' were all her words ; but few as they were , they conveyed pages of intelligence to Catherine . 
Catherine understood her : -- the General must be watched from home , before that room could be entered . 
said she , in a tone of feeling . 
And nine years , Catherine knew was a trifle of time , compared with what generally elapsed after the death of an injured wife , before her room was put to rights . 
Catherine 's blood ran cold with the horrid suggestions which naturally sprang from these words . 
thought Catherine ; such ill-timed exercise was of a piece with the strange unseasonableness of his morning walks , and boded nothing good . 
After an evening , the little variety and seeming length of which made her peculiarly sensible of Henry 's importance among them , she was heartily glad to be dismissed ; though it was a look from the General not designed for her observation which sent his daughter to the bell . 
`` I have many pamphlets to finish , '' said he to Catherine , `` before I can close my eyes ; and perhaps may be poring over the affairs of the nation for hours after you are asleep . 
But neither the business alleged , nor the magnificent compliment , could win Catherine from thinking , that some very different object must occasion so serious a delay of proper repose . 
Catherine sometimes started at the boldness of her own surmises , and sometimes hoped or feared that she had gone too far ; but they were supported by such appearances as made their dismissal impossible . 
The side of the quadrangle , in which she supposed the guilty scene to be acting , being , according to her belief , just opposite her own , it struck her that , if judiciously watched , some rays of light from the General 's lamp might glimmer through the lower windows , as he passed to the prison of his wife ; and , twice before she stepped into bed , she stole gently from her room to the corresponding window in the gallery , to see if it appeared ; but all abroad was dark , and it must yet be too early . 
The clock struck twelve -- and Catherine had been half an hour asleep . 
It was Sunday , and the whole time between morning and afternoon service was required by the General in exercise abroad or eating cold meat at home ; and great as was Catherine 's curiosity , her courage was not equal to a wish of exploring them after dinner , either by the fading light of the sky between six and seven o'clock , or by the yet more partial though stronger illumination of a treacherous lamp . 
The day was unmarked therefore by any thing to interest her imagination beyond the sight of a very elegant monument to the memory of Mrs. Tilney , which immediately fronted the family pew . 
That the General , having erected such a monument , should be able to face it , was not perhaps very strange , and yet that he could sit so boldly collected within its view , maintain so elevated an air , look so fearlessly around , nay , that he should even enter the church , seemed wonderful to Catherine . 
She could remember dozens who had persevered in every possible vice , going on from crime to crime , murdering whomsoever they chose , without any feeling of humanity or remorse ; till a violent death or a religious retirement closed their black career . 
The erection of the monument itself could not in the smallest degree affect her doubts of Mrs. Tilney 's actual decease . 
Were she even to descend into the family vault where her ashes were supposed to slumber , were she to behold the coffin in which they were said to be enclosed -- what could it avail in such a case ? 
Catherine had read too much not to be perfectly aware of the ease with which a waxen figure might be introduced , and a supposititious funeral carried on . 
The General 's early walk , ill-timed as it was in every other view , was favourable here ; and when she knew him to be out of the house , she directly proposed to Miss Tilney the accomplishment of her promise . 
Eleanor was ready to oblige her ; and Catherine reminding her as they went of another promise , their first visit in consequence was to the portrait in her bed-chamber . 
It represented a very lovely woman , with a mild and pensive countenance , justifying , so far , the expectations of its new observer ; but they were not in every respect answered , for Catherine had depended upon meeting with features , air , complexion that should be the very counterpart , the very image , if not of Henry 's , of Eleanor 's ; -- the only portraits of which she had been in the habit of thinking , bearing always an equal resemblance of mother and child . 
Again she passed through the folding-doors , again her hand was upon the important lock , and Catherine , hardly able to breathe , was turning to close the former with fearful caution , when the figure , the dreaded figure of the General himself at the further end of the gallery , stood before her ! 
The name of `` Eleanor '' at the same moment , in his loudest tone , resounded through the building , giving to his daughter the first intimation of his presence , and to Catherine terror upon terror . 
An attempt at concealment had been her first instinctive movement on perceiving him , yet she could scarcely hope to have escaped his eye ; and when her friend , who with an apologizing look darted hastily by her , had joined and disappeared with him , she ran for safety to her own room , and , locking herself in , believed that she should never have courage to go down again . 
She remained there at least an hour , in the greatest agitation , deeply commiserating the state of her poor friend , and expecting a summons herself from the angry General to attend him in his own apartment . 
No summons however arrived ; and at last , on seeing a carriage drive up to the Abbey , she was emboldened to descend and meet him under the protection of visitors . 
The breakfast-room was gay with company ; and she was named to them by the General , as the friend of his daughter , in a complimentary style , which so well concealed his resentful ire , as to make her feel secure at least of life for the present . 
It was done ; and Catherine found herself alone in the gallery before the clocks had ceased to strike . 
It was no time for thought ; she hurried on , slipped with the least possible noise through the folding doors , and without stopping to look or breathe , rushed forward to the one in question . 
The lock yielded to her hand , and , luckily , with no sullen sound that could alarm a human being . 
On tiptoe she entered ; the room was before her ; but it was some minutes before she could advance another step . 
She beheld what fixed her to the spot and agitated every feature . 
-- She saw a large , well-proportioned apartment , an handsome dimity bed , arranged as unoccupied with an housemaid 's care , a bright Bath stove , mahogany wardrobes and neatly-painted chairs , on which the warm beams of a western sun gaily poured through two sash windows ! 
Catherine had expected to have her feelings worked , and worked they were . 
She could not be mistaken as to the room ; but how grossly mistaken in every thing else ! 
Catherine recollected herself , blushed deeply , and could say no more . 
He seemed to be looking in her countenance for that explanation which her lips did not afford . 
She moved on towards the gallery . 
`` I have been , '' said Catherine , looking down , `` to see your mother 's room . '' 
`` And that prevented you ; '' said Henry , earnestly regarding her . 
She could not contradict it , and therefore suffered herself to be detained , though her dread of further questions made her , for the first time in their acquaintance , wish to leave him . 
-- Catherine said nothing -- After a short silence , during which he had closely observed her , he added , `` As there is nothing in the room in itself to raise curiosity , this must have proceeded from a sentiment of respect for my mother 's character , as described by Eleanor , which does honour to her memory . 
`` And from these circumstances , '' he replied , -LRB- his quick eye fixed on her 's , -RRB- `` you infer perhaps the probability of some negligence -- some -- -LRB- involuntarily she shook her head -RRB- -- or it may be -- of something still less pardonable . '' 
She raised her eyes towards him more fully than she had ever done before . 
`` But your father , '' said Catherine , `` was he afflicted ? '' 
`` I am very glad of it , '' said Catherine , `` it would have been very shocking ! '' 
They had reached the end of the gallery ; and with tears of shame she ran off to her own room . 
Catherine was completely awakened . 
Henry 's address , short as it had been , had more thoroughly opened her eyes to the extravagance of her late fancies than all their several disappointments had done . 
Most grievously was she humbled . 
Most bitterly did she cry . 
It was not only with herself that she was sunk -- but with Henry . 
Her folly , which now seemed even criminal , was all exposed to him , and he must despise her for ever . 
The liberty which her imagination had dared to take with the character of his father , could he ever forgive it ? 
The absurdity of her curiosity and her fears , could they ever be forgotten ? 
She hated herself more than she could express . 
He had -- she thought he had , once or twice before this fatal morning , shewn something like affection for her . 
-- But now -- in short , she made herself as miserable as possible for about half an hour , went down when the clock struck five , with a broken heart , and could scarcely give an intelligible answer to Eleanor 's inquiry , if she was well . 
Catherine had never wanted comfort more , and he looked as if he was aware of it . 
The evening wore away with no abatement of this soothing politeness ; and her spirits were gradually raised to a modest tranquillity . 
She did not learn either to forget or defend the past ; but she learned to hope that it would never transpire farther , and that it might not cost her Henry 's entire regard . 
Her thoughts being still chiefly fixed on what she had with such causeless terror felt and done , nothing could shortly be clearer , than that it had been all a voluntary , self-created delusion , each trifling circumstance receiving importance from an imagination resolved on alarm , and every thing forced to bend to one purpose by a mind which , before she entered the Abbey , had been craving to be frightened . 
She remembered with what feelings she had prepared for a knowledge of Northanger . 
She saw that the infatuation had been created , the mischief settled long before her quitting Bath , and it seemed as if the whole might be traced to the influence of that sort of reading which she had there indulged . 
Catherine dared not doubt beyond her own country , and even of that , if hard pressed , would have yielded the northern and western extremities . 
For nine successive mornings , Catherine wondered over the repetition of a disappointment , which each morning became more severe : but , on the tenth , when she entered the breakfast-room , her first object was a letter , held out by Henry 's willing hand . 
She thanked him as heartily as if he had written it himself . 
`` 'T is only from James , however , '' as she looked at the direction . 
She opened it ; it was from Oxford ; and to this purpose : -- `` Dear Catherine , `` Though , God knows , with little inclination for writing , I think it my duty to tell you , that every thing is at an end between Miss Thorpe and me . 
Let me soon hear from you , dear Catherine ; you are my only friend ; your love I do build upon . 
Her duplicity hurts me more than all ; till the very last , if I reasoned with her , she declared herself as much attached to me as ever , and laughed at my fears . 
I can not understand even now what she would be at , for there could be no need of my being played off to make her secure of Tilney . 
Dearest Catherine , beware how you give your heart . '' 
`` Believe me , '' & c. Catherine had not read three lines before her sudden change of countenance , and short exclamations of sorrowing wonder , declared her to be receiving unpleasant news ; and Henry , earnestly watching her through the whole letter , saw plainly that it ended no better than it began . 
They went to breakfast directly ; but Catherine could hardly eat any thing . 
Tears filled her eyes , and even ran down her cheeks as she sat . 
The letter was one moment in her hand , then in her lap , and then in her pocket ; and she looked as if she knew not what she did . 
The General , between his cocoa and his newspaper , had luckily no leisure for noticing her ; but to the other two her distress was equally visible . 
As soon as she dared leave the table she hurried away to her own room ; but the house-maids were busy in it , and she was obliged to come down again . 
She turned into the drawing-room for privacy , but Henry and Eleanor had likewise retreated thither , and were at that moment deep in consultation about her . 
After half an hour 's free indulgence of grief and reflection , Catherine felt equal to encountering her friends ; but whether she should make her distress known to them was another consideration . 
Perhaps , if particularly questioned , she might just give an idea -- just distantly hint at it -- but not more . 
Catherine took her place at the table , and , after a short silence , Eleanor said , `` No bad news from Fullerton , I hope ? 
`` I have one favour to beg , '' said Catherine , shortly afterwards , in an agitated manner , `` that , if your brother should be coming here , you will give me notice of it , that I may go away . '' 
cried Catherine : `` you have guessed it , I declare ! 
`` No , read it yourself , '' cried Catherine , whose second thoughts were clearer . 
`` I do not know what I was thinking of , '' -LRB- blushing again that she had blushed before , -RRB- -- `` James only means to give me good advice . '' 
Miss Tilney , at Catherine 's invitation , now read the letter likewise ; and , having expressed also her concern and surprize , began to inquire into Miss Thorpe 's connexions and fortune . 
`` Her mother is a very good sort of woman , '' was Catherine 's answer . 
`` But perhaps , '' observed Catherine , '' `` though she has behaved so ill by our family , she may behave better by your 's . 
`` No , '' said Catherine , after a few moments ' reflection , `` I do not -- ought I ? 
Catherine , by some chance or other , found her spirits so very much relieved by this conversation , that she could not regret her being led on , though so unaccountably , to mention the circumstance which had produced it . 
From this time , the subject was frequently canvassed by the three young people ; and Catherine found , with some surprize , that her two young friends were perfectly agreed in considering Isabella 's want of consequence and fortune as likely to throw great difficulties in the way of her marrying their brother . 
Henry was greatly honoured and very happy , and Catherine was quite delighted with the scheme . 
A ball itself could not have been more welcome to Catherine than this little excursion , so strong was her desire to be acquainted with Woodston ; and her heart was still bounding with joy , when Henry , about an hour afterwards , came booted and great coated into the room where she and Eleanor were sitting , and said , `` I am come , young ladies , in a very moralizing strain , to observe that our pleasures in this world and always to be paid for , and that we often purchase them at a great disadvantage , giving ready-monied actual happiness for a draft on the future , that may not be honoured . 
said Catherine , with a very long face ; `` and why ? '' 
He went ; and , it being at any time a much simpler operation to Catherine to doubt her own judgment than Henry 's , she was very soon obliged to give him credit for being right , however disagreeable to her his going . 
But the inexplicability of the General 's conduct dwelt much on her thoughts . 
That he was very particular in his eating , she had , by her own unassisted observation , already discovered ; but why he should say one thing so positively , and mean another all the while , was most unaccountable ! 
This was the sad finale of every reflection : -- and Captain Tilney 's letter would certainly come in his absence ; and Wednesday she was very sure would be wet . 
Her brother so unhappy , and her loss in Isabella so great ; and Eleanor 's spirits always affected by Henry 's absence ! 
It came -- it was fine -- and Catherine trod on air . 
Catherine was ashamed to say how pretty she thought it , as the General seemed to think an apology necessary for the flatness of the country , and the size of the village ; but in her heart she preferred it to any place she had ever been at , and looked with great admiration at every neat house above the rank of a cottage , and at all the little chandler 's shops which they passed . 
Catherine 's mind was too full , as she entered the house , for her either to observe or to say a great deal ; and , till called on by the General for her opinion of it , she had very little idea of the room in which she was sitting . 
Upon looking round it then , she perceived in a moment that it was the most comfortable room in the world ; but she was too guarded to say so , and the coldness of her praise disappointed him . 
Catherine did not hear enough of this speech to understand or be pained by it ; and other subjects being studiously brought forward and supported by Henry , at the same time that a tray full of refreshments was introduced by his servant , the General was shortly restored to his complacency , and Catherine to all her usual ease of spirits . 
The room in question was of a commodious , well-proportioned size , and handsomely fitted up as a dining parlour ; and on their quitting it to walk round the grounds , she was shewn , first into a smaller apartment , belonging peculiarly to the master of the house , and made unusually tidy on the occasion ; and afterwards into what was to be the drawing-room , with the appearance of which , though unfurnished , Catherine was delighted enough even to satisfy the General . 
It was a prettily-shaped room , the windows reaching to the ground , and the view from them pleasant , though only over green meadows ; and she expressed her admiration at the moment with all the honest simplicity with which she felt it . 
Such a compliment recalled all Catherine 's consciousness , and silenced her directly ; and , though pointedly applied to by the General for her choice of the prevailing colour of the paper and hangings , nothing like an opinion on the subject could be drawn from her . 
The influence of fresh objects and fresh air , however , was of great use in dissipating these embarrassing associations ; and , having reached the ornamental part of the premises , consisting of a walk round two sides of a meadow , on which Henry 's genius had begun to act about half a year ago , she was sufficiently recovered to think it prettier than any pleasure-ground she had ever been in before , though there was not a shrub in it higher than the green bench in the corner . 
A saunter into other meadows , and through part of the village , with a visit to the stables to examine some improvements , and a charming game of play with a litter of puppies just able to roll about , brought them to four o'clock , when Catherine scarcely thought it could be three . 
She could not but observe that the abundance of the dinner did not seem to create the smallest astonishment in the General ; nay , that he was even looking at the side-table for cold meat which was not there . 
At six o'clock , the General having taken his coffee , the carriage again received them ; and so gratifying had been the tenor of his conduct throughout the whole visit , so well assured was her mind on the subject of his expectations , that , could she have felt equally confident of the wishes of his son , Catherine would have quitted Woodston with little anxiety as to the How or the When she might return to it . 
The next morning brought the following very unexpected letter from Isabella : -- Bath , April -- My dearest Catherine , I received your two kind letters with the greatest delight , and have a thousand apologies to make for not answering them sooner . 
Lose no time , my dearest , sweetest Catherine , in writing to him and to me , Who ever am , & c . 
Such a strain of shallow artifice could not impose even upon Catherine . 
Its inconsistencies , contradictions , and falsehood , struck her from the very first , She was ashamed of Isabella , and ashamed of having ever loved her . 
Her professions of attachment were now as disgusting as her excuses were empty , and her demands impudent . 
On Henry 's arrival from Woodston , she made known to him and Eleanor their brother 's safety , congratulating them with sincerity on it , and reading aloud the most material passages of her letter with strong indignation . 
When she had finished it , -- `` So much for Isabella , '' she cried , `` and for all our intimacy ! 
Catherine was complimented out of further bitterness . 
She resolved on not answering Isabella 's letter ; and tried to think no more of it . 
His departure gave Catherine the first experimental conviction that a loss may be sometimes a gain . 
The happiness with which their time now passed , every employment voluntary , every laugh indulged , every meal a scene of ease and good-humour , walking where they liked and when they liked , their hours , pleasures and fatigues at their own command , made her thoroughly sensible of the restraint which the General 's presence had imposed , and most thankfully feel their present release from it . 
Such ease and such delights made her love the place and the people more and more every day ; and had it not been for a dread of its soon becoming expedient to leave the one , and an apprehension of not being equally beloved by the other , she would at each moment of each day have been perfectly happy ; but she was now in the fourth week of her visit ; before the General came home , the fourth week would be turned , and perhaps it might seem an intrusion if she staid much longer . 
This was a painful consideration whenever it occurred ; and eager to get rid of such a weight on her mind , she very soon resolved to speak to Eleanor about it at once , propose going away , and be guided in her conduct by the manner in which her proposal might be taken . 
Aware that if she gave herself much time , she might feel it difficult to bring forward so unpleasant a subject , she took the first opportunity of being suddenly alone with Eleanor , and of Eleanor 's being in the middle of a speech about something very different , to start forth her obligation of going away very soon . 
-- Catherine explained . 
-- And it was directly settled that , till she had , her leaving them was not even to be thought of . 
Catherine walked on to her chamber , making up her mind as well as she could , to a further acquaintance with Captain Tilney , and comforting herself under the unpleasant impression his conduct had given her , and the persuasion of his being by far too fine a gentleman to approve of her , that at least they should not meet under such circumstances as would make their meeting materially painful . 
She trusted he would never speak of Miss Thorpe ; and indeed , as he must by this time be ashamed of the part he had acted , there could be no danger of it ; and as long as all mention of Bath scenes were avoided , she thought she could behave to him very civilly . 
At that moment Catherine thought she heard her step in the gallery , and listened for its continuance ; but all was silent . 
Scarcely , however , had she convicted her fancy of error , when the noise of something moving close to her door made her start ; it seemed as if some one was touching the very doorway -- and in another moment a slight motion of the lock proved that some hand must be on it . 
She trembled a little at the idea of any one 's approaching so cautiously ; but resolving not to be again overcome by trivial appearances of alarm , or misled by a raised imagination , she stepped quietly forward , and opened the door . 
Catherine 's spirits however were tranquillized but for an instant , for Eleanor 's cheeks were pale , and her manner greatly agitated . 
Catherine , supposing some uneasiness on Captain Tilney 's account , could only express her concern by silent attention ; obliged her to be seated , rubbed her temples with lavender-water , and hung over her with affectionate solicitude . 
`` My dear Catherine , you must not -- you must not indeed -- '' were Eleanor 's first connected words . 
A new idea now darted into Catherine 's mind , and turning as pale as her friend , she exclaimed , '' 'T is a messenger from Woodston ! '' 
`` You are mistaken , indeed , '' returned Eieanor , looking at her most compassionately -- `` it is no one from Woodston . 
Her voice faltered , and her eyes were turned to the ground as she mentioned his name . 
His unlooked-for return was enough in itself to make Catherine 's heart sink , and for a few moments she hardly supposed there were any thing worse to be told . 
She said nothing ; and Eleanor endeavouring to collect herself and speak with firmness , but with eyes still cast down , soon went on . 
My dear Catherine , we are to part . 
`` My dear Eleanor , '' cried Catherine , suppressing her feelings as well as she could , `` do not be so distressed . 
`` It will not be in my power , Catherine . '' 
-- Eleanor made no answer ; and Catherine 's thoughts recurring to something more directly interesting , she added , thinking aloud , `` Monday -- so soon as Monday ; -- and you all go . 
`` Ah , Catherine ! 
Catherine sat down , breathless and speechless . 
Dear , dear Catherine , in being the bearer of such a message , I seem guilty myself of all its insult ; yet , I trust you will acquit me , for you must have been long enough in this house to see that I am but a nominal mistress of it , that my real power is nothing . '' 
said Catherine in a faltering voice . 
It was with pain that Catherine could speak at all ; and it was only for Eleanor 's sake that she attempted it . 
Catherine 's swelling heart needed relief . 
Eleanor had wished to spare her from so painful a notion , but Catherine could not believe it possible that any injury or any misfortune could provoke such ill-will against a person not connected , or , at least , not supposed to be connected with it . 
That room , in which her disturbed imagination had tormented her on her first arrival , was again the scene of agitated spirits and unquiet slumbers . 
Yet how different now the source of her inquietude from what it had been then -- how mournfully superior in reality and substance ! 
Her anxiety had foundation in fact , her fears in probability ; and with a mind so occupied in the contemplation of actual and natural evil , the solitude of her situation , the darkness of her chamber , the antiquity of the building were felt and considered without the smallest emotion ; and though the wind was high , and often produced strange and sudden noises throughout the house , she heard it all as she lay awake , hour after hour without curiosity or terror . 
Catherine had not loitered ; she was almost dressed , and her packing almost finished . 
The possibility of some conciliatory message from the General occurred to her as his daughter appeared . 
and she only wanted to know how far , after what had passed , an apology might properly be received by her . 
Very little passed between them on meeting ; each found her greatest safety in silence , and few and trivial were the sentences exchanged while they remained up stairs , Catherine in busy agitation completing her dress , and Eleanor with more good-will than experience intent upon filling the trunk . 
When every thing was done they left the room , Catherine lingering only half a minute behind her friend to throw a parting glance on every well-known cherished object , and went down to the breakfast-parlour , where breakfast was prepared . 
She tried to eat , as well to save herself from the pain of being urged , as to make her friend comfortable ; but she had no appetite , and could not swallow many mouthfuls . 
The contrast between this and her last breakfast in that room , gave her fresh misery , and strengthened her distaste for every thing before her . 
With what cheerful ease , what happy , though false security , had she then looked around her , enjoying every thing present , and fearing little in future , beyond Henry 's going to Woodston for a day ! 
for Henry had been there , Henry had sat by her and helped her . 
These reflections were long indulged undisturbed by any address from her companion , who sat as deep in thought as herself ; and the appearance of the carriage was the first thing to startle and recall them to the present moment . 
Catherine 's colour rose at the sight of it ; and the indignity with which she was treated striking at that instant on her mind with peculiar force , made her for a short time sensible only of resentment . 
`` You must write to me , Catherine , '' she cried , `` you must let me hear from you as soon as possible . 
But this , with the look of sorrow accompanying it , was enough to melt Catherine 's pride in a moment , and she instantly said , `` Oh , Eleanor , I will write to you indeed . '' 
It had occurred to her , that after so long an absence from home , Catherine might not be provided with money enough for the expenses of her journey , and , upon suggesting it to her with most affectionate offers of accommodation , it proved to be exactly the case . 
Catherine had never thought on the subject till that moment ; but , upon examining her purse , was convinced that but for this kindness of her friend , she might have been turned from the house without even the means of getting home ; and the distress in which she must have been thereby involved filling the minds of both , scarcely another word was said by either during the time of their remaining together . 
The carriage was soon announced to be ready ; and Catherine , instantly rising , a long and affectionate embrace supplied the place of language in bidding each other adieu ; and , as they entered the hall , unable to leave the house without some mention of one whose name had not yet been spoken by either , she paused a moment , and with quivering lips just made it intelligible that she left `` her kind remembrance for her absent friend . '' 
But with this approach to his name ended all possibility of restraining her feelings ; and , hiding her face as well as she could with her handkerchief , she darted across the hall , jumped into the chaise , and in a moment was driven from the door . 
Catherine was too wretched to be fearful . 
The journey in itself had no terrors for her ; and she began it without either dreading its length , or feeling its solitariness . 
Leaning back in one corner of the carriage , in a violent burst of tears , she was conveyed some miles beyond the walls of the Abbey before she raised her head ; and the highest point of ground within the park was almost closed from her view before she was capable of turning her eyes towards it . 
Unfortunately , the road she now travelled was the same which only ten days ago she had so happily passed along in going to and from Woodston ; and , for fourteen miles , every bitter feeling was rendered more severe by the review of objects on which she had first looked under impressions so different . 
Every mile , as it brought her nearer Woodston , added to her sufferings , and when within the distance of five , she passed the turning which led to it , and thought of Henry , so near , yet so unconscious , her grief and agitation were excessive . 
The day which she had spent at that place had been one of the happiest of her life . 
It was there , it was on that day that the General had made use of such expressions with regard to Henry and herself , had so spoken and so looked as to give her the most positive conviction of his actually wishing their marriage . 
Yes , only ten days ago had he elated her by his pointed regard -- had he even confused her by his too significant reference ! 
And now -- what had she done , or what had she omitted to do , to merit such a change ? 
The only offence against him of which she could accuse herself , had been such as was scarcely possible to reach his knowledge . 
Henry and her own heart only were privy to the shocking suspicions which she had so idly entertained ; and equally safe did she believe her secret with each . 
Designedly , at least , Henry could not have betrayed her . 
If , indeed , by any strange mischance his father should have gained intelligence of what she had dared to think and look for , of her causeless fancies and injurious examinations , she could not wonder at any degree of his indignation . 
If aware of her having viewed him as a murderer , she could not wonder at his even turning her from his house . 
But a justification so full of torture to herself , she trusted would not be in his power . 
Anxious as were all her conjectures on this point , it was not , however , the one on which she dwelt most . 
How Henry would think , and feel , and look , when he returned on the morrow to Northanger and heard of her being gone , was a question of force and interest to rise over every other , to be never ceasing , alternately irritating and soothing ; it sometimes suggested the dread of his calm acquiescence , and at others was answered by the sweetest confidence in his regret and resentment . 
But , whatever might be the distress of Catherine 's mind , as she thus advanced towards the Parsonage , and whatever the humiliation of her biographer in relating it , she was preparing enjoyment of no every-day nature for those to whom she went ; first , in the appearance of her carriage -- and secondly , in herself . 
Happy the glance that first distinguished Catherine ! 
Her father , mother , Sarah , George , and Harriet , all assembled at the door , to welcome her with affectionate eagerness , was a sight to awaken the best feelings of Catherine 's heart ; and in the embrace of each , as she stepped from the carriage , she found herself soothed beyond any thing that she had believed possible . 
So surrounded , so caressed , she was even happy ! 
In the joyfulness of family love every thing for a short time was subdued , and the pleasure of seeing her , leaving them at first little leisure for calm curiosity , they were all seated round the tea-table , which Mrs. Morland had hurried for the comfort of the poor traveller , whose pale and jaded looks soon caught her notice , before any inquiry so direct as to demand a positive answer was addressed to her . 
Why he had done it , what could have provoked him to such a breach of hospitality , and so suddenly turned all his partial regard for their daughter into actual ill-will , was a matter which they were at least as far from divining as Catherine herself ; but it did not oppress them by any means so long ; and , after a due course of useless conjecture , that , `` it was a strange business , and that he must be a very strange man , '' grew enough for all their indignation and wonder ; though Sarah indeed still indulged in the sweets of incomprehensibility , exclaiming and conjecturing with youthful ardour . 
`` I can allow for his wishing Catherine away , when he recollected this engagement , '' said Sarah , `` but why not do it civilly ? '' 
`` I am sorry for the young people , '' returned Mrs. Morland ; `` they must have a sad time of it ; but as for any thing else , it is no matter now ; Catherine is safe at home , and our comfort does not depend upon General Tilney . '' 
Catherine sighed . 
`` Well , '' continued her philosophic mother , `` I am glad I did not know of your journey at the time ; but now it is all over perhaps there is no great harm done . 
It is always good for young people to be put upon exerting themselves ; and you know , my dear Catherine , you always were a sad little shatter-brained creature ; but now you must have been forced to have your wits about you , with so much changing of chaises and so forth ; and I hope it will appear that you have not left any thing behind you in any of the pockets . '' 
Catherine hoped so too , and tried to feel an interest in her own amendment , but her spirits were quite worn down ; and , to be silent and alone becoming soon her only wish , she readily agreed to her mother 's next counsel of going early to bed . 
Her parents seeing nothing in her ill-looks and agitation but the natural consequence of mortified feelings , and of the unusual exertion and fatigue of such a journey , parted from her without any doubt of their being soon slept away ; and though , when they all met the next morning , her recovery was not equal to their hopes , they were still perfectly unsuspicious of there being any deeper evil . 
They never once thought of her heart , which , for the parents of a young lady of seventeen , just returned from her first excursion from home , was odd enough ! 
As soon as breakfast was over , she sat down to fulfil her promise to Miss Tilney , whose trust in the effect of time and distance on her friend 's disposition was already justified , for already did Catherine reproach herself with having parted from Eleanor coldly ; with having never enough valued her merits or kindness ; and never enough commiserated her for what she had been yesterday left to endure . 
The strength of these feelings , however , was far from assisting her pen ; and never had it been harder for her to write than in addressing Eleanor Tilney . 
Catherine coloured as she warmly answered , `` No friend can be better worth keeping than Eleanor . '' 
The hope of meeting again in the course of a few years could only put into Catherine 's head what might happen within that time to make a meeting dreadful to her . 
She could never forget Henry Tilney , or think of him with less tenderness than she did at that moment ; but he might forget her ; and in that case to meet ! 
-- Her eyes filled with tears as she pictured her acquaintance so renewed ; and her mother , perceiving her comfortable suggestions to have had no good effect , proposed , as another expedient for restoring her spirits , that they should call on Mrs. Allen . 
This was just such a summary view of the affair as Catherine could listen to ; another sentence might have endangered her complaisance , and made her reply less rational ; for soon were all her thinking powers swallowed up in the reflection of her own change of feelings and spirits since last she had trodden that well-known road . 
It was not three months ago since , wild with joyful expectation , she had there run backwards and forwards some ten times a-day , with an heart light , gay , and independent ; looking forward to pleasures untasted and unalloyed , and free from the apprehension of evil as from the knowledge of it . 
Three months ago had seen her all this ; and now , how altered a being did she return ! 
She was received by the Allens with all the kindness which her unlooked-for appearance , acting on a steady affection , would naturally call forth ; and great was their surprize , and warm their displeasure , on hearing how she had been treated , -- though Mrs. Morland 's account of it was no inflated representation , no studied appeal to their passions . 
`` Catherine took us quite by surprize yesterday evening , '' said she . 
`` She travelled all the way post by herself , and knew nothing of coming till Saturday night ; for General Tilney , from some odd fancy or other , all of a sudden grew tired of having her there , and almost turned her out of the house . 
Very unfriendly , certainly ; and he must be a very odd man ; -- but we are so glad to have her amongst us again ! 
And it is a great comfort to find that she is not a poor helpless creature , but can shift very well for herself . '' 
Bath is a nice place , Catherine , after all . 
`` Yes , but that did not last long , '' said Catherine , her eyes brightening at the recollection of what had first given spirit to her existence there . 
Catherine could not answer ; and , after a short trial of other subjects , Mrs. Allen again returned to -- `` I really have not patience with the General ! 
His lodgings were taken the very day after he left them , Catherine . 
There was a great deal of good sense in all this ; but there are some situations of the human mind in which good sense has very little power ; and Catherine 's feelings contradicted almost every position her mother advanced . 
It was upon the behaviour of these very slight acquaintance that all her present happiness depended ; and while Mrs. Morland was successfully confirming her own opinions by the justness of her own representations , Catherine was silently reflecting that now Henry must have arrived at Northanger ; now he must have heard of her departure ; and now , perhaps , they were all setting off for Hereford . 
Catherine 's disposition was not naturally sedentary , nor had her habits been ever very industrious ; but whatever might hitherto have been her defects of that sort , her mother could not but perceive them now to be greatly increased . 
She could neither sit still , nor employ herself for ten minutes together , walking round the garden and orchard again and again , as if nothing but motion was voluntary ; and it seemed as if she could even walk about the house rather than remain fixed for any time in the parlour . 
Her loss of spirits was a yet greater alteration . 
In her rambling and her idleness she might only be a caricature of herself ; but in her silence and sadness she was the very reverse of all that she had been before . 
For two days Mrs. Morland allowed it to pass even without a hint ; but when a third night 's rest had neither restored her cheerfulness , improved her in useful activity , nor given her a greater inclination for needle-work , she could no longer refrain from the gentle reproof of , `` My dear Catherine , I am afraid you are growing quite a fine lady . 
Catherine took up her work directly , saying , in a dejected voice , that `` her head did not run upon Bath -- much . '' 
After a short silence -- `` I hope , my Catherine , you are not getting out of humour with home because it is not so grand as Northanger . 
Catherine said no more , and , with an endeavour to do right , applied to her work ; but , after a few minutes , sunk again , without knowing it herself , into languor and listlessness , moving herself in her chair , from the irritation of weariness , much oftener than she moved her needle . 
Catherine meanwhile , -- the anxious , agitated , happy , feverish Catherine , -- said not a word ; but her glowing cheek and brightened eye made her mother trust that this good-natured visit would at least set her heart at ease for a time , and gladly therefore did she lay aside the first volume of the Mirror for a future hour . 
Desirous of Mr. Morland 's assistance , as well in giving encouragement , as in finding conversation for her guest , whose embarrassment on his father 's account she earnestly pitied , Mrs. Morland had very early dispatched one of the children to summon him ; but Mr. Morland was from home -- and being thus without any support , at the end of a quarter of an hour she had nothing to say . 
After a couple of minutes unbroken silence , Henry , turning to Catherine for the first time since her mother 's entrance , asked her , with sudden alacrity , if Mr. and Mrs. Allen were now at Fullerton ? 
`` You may see the house from this window , sir , '' was information on Sarah 's side , which produced only a bow of acknowledgment from the gentleman , and a silencing nod from her mother ; for Mrs. Morland , thinking it probable , as a secondary consideration in his wish of waiting on their worthy neighbours , that he might have some explanation to give of his father 's behaviour , which it must be more pleasant for him to communicate only to Catherine , would not on any account prevent her accompanying him . 
Some explanation on his father 's account he had to give ; but his first purpose was to explain himself , and before they reached Mr. Allen 's grounds he had done it so well , that Catherine did not think it could ever be repeated too often . 
She was assured of his affection ; and that heart in return was solicited , which , perhaps , they pretty equally knew was already entirely his own ; for , though Henry was now sincerely attached to her , though he felt and delighted in all the excellencies of her character and truly loved her society , I must confess that his affection originated in nothing better than gratitude , or , in other words , that a persuasion of her partiality for him had been the only cause of giving her a serious thought . 
A very short visit to Mrs. Allen , in which Henry talked at random , without sense or connection , and Catherine , wrapt in the contemplation of her own unutterable happiness , scarcely opened her lips , dismissed them to the extasies of another tête-à-tête ; and before it was suffered to close , she was enabled to judge how far he was sanctioned by parental authority in his present application . 
The affrighted Catherine , amidst all the terrors of expectation , as she listened to this account , could not but rejoice in the kind caution with which Henry had saved her from the necessity of a conscientious rejection , by engaging her faith before he mentioned the subject ; and as he proceeded to give the particulars , and explain the motives of his father 's conduct , her feelings soon hardened into even a triumphant delight . 
The General had had nothing to accuse her of , nothing to lay to her charge , but her being the involuntary , unconscious object of a deception which his pride could not pardon , and which a better pride would have been ashamed to own . 
She was guilty only of being less rich than he had supposed her to be . 
Under a mistaken persuasion of her possessions and claims , he had courted her acquaintance in Bath , solicited her company at Northanger , and designed her for his daughter in law . 
On discovering his error , to turn her from the house seemed the best , though to his feelings an inadequate proof of his resentment towards herself , and his contempt of her family . 
Thorpe , most happy to be on speaking terms with a man of General Tilney 's importance , had been joyfully and proudly communicative ; -- and being at that time not only in daily expectation of Morland 's engaging Isabella , but likewise pretty well resolved upon marrying Catherine himself , his vanity induced him to represent the family as yet more wealthy than his vanity and avarice had made him believe them . 
The expectations of his friend Morland , therefore , from the first over-rated , had ever since his introduction to Isabella , been gradually increasing ; and by merely adding twice as much for the grandeur of the moment , by doubling what he chose to think the amount of Mr. Morland 's preferment , trebling his private fortune , bestowing a rich aunt , and sinking half the children , he was able to represent the whole family to the General in a most respectable light . 
For Catherine , however , the peculiar object of the General 's curiosity , and his own speculations , he had yet something more in reserve , and the ten or fifteen thousand pounds which her father could give her , would be a pretty addition to Mr. Allen 's estate . 
Her intimacy there had made him seriously determine on her being handsomely legacied hereafter ; and to speak of her therefore as the almost acknowledged future heiress of Fullerton naturally followed . 
Catherine herself could not be more ignorant at the time of all this , than his own children . 
That they were false , the General had learnt from the very person who had suggested them , from Thorpe himself , whom he had chanced to meet again in town , and who , under the influence of exactly opposite feelings , irritated by Catherine 's refusal , and yet more by the failure of a very recent endeavour to accomplish a reconciliation between Morland and Isabella , convinced that they were separated for ever , and spurning a friendship which could be no longer serviceable , hastened to contradict all that he had said before to the advantage of the Morlands ; -- confessed himself to have been totally mistaken in his opinion of their circumstances and character , misled by the rhodomontade of his friend to believe his father a man of substance and credit , whereas the transactions of the two or three last weeks proved him to be neither ; for after coming eagerly forward on the first overture of a marriage between the families , with the most liberal proposals , he had , on being brought to the point by the shrewdness of the relator , been constrained to acknowledge himself incapable of giving the young people even a decent support . 
I leave it to my reader 's sagacity to determine how much of all this it was possible for Henry to communicate at this time to Catherine , how much of it he could have learnt from his father , in what points his own conjectures might assist him , and what portion must yet remain to be told in a letter from James . 
Catherine , at any rate , heard enough to feel , that in suspecting General Tilney of either murdering or shutting up his wife , she had scarcely sinned against his character , or magnified his cruelty . 
Henry 's indignation on hearing how Catherine had been treated , on comprehending his father 's views , and being ordered to acquiesce in them , had been open and bold . 
He steadily refused to accompany his father into Herefordshire , an engagement formed almost at the moment , to promote the dismissal of Catherine , and as steadily declared his intention of offering her his hand . 
Mr. and Mrs. Morland 's surprize on being applied to by Mr. Tilney , for their consent to his marrying their daughter , was , for a few minutes , considerable ; it having never entered their heads to suspect an attachment on either side ; but as nothing ; after all , could be more natural than Catherine 's being beloved , they soon learnt to consider it with only the happy agitation of gratified pride , and , as far as they alone were concerned , had not a single objection to start . 
`` Catherine would make a sad heedless young housekeeper to be sure , '' was her mother 's foreboding remark ; but quick was the consolation of there being nothing like practice . 
Henry returned to what was now his only home , to watch over his young plantations , and extend his improvements for her sake , to whose share in them he looked anxiously forward ; and Catherine remained at Fullerton to cry . 
Mr. and Mrs. Morland never did -- they had been too kind to exact any promise ; and whenever Catherine received a letter , as , at that time , happened pretty often , they always looked another way . 
The anxiety , which in this state of their attachment must be the portion of Henry and Catherine , and of all who loved either , as to its final event , can hardly extend , I fear , to the bosom of my readers , who will see in the tell-tale compression of the pages before them , that we are all hastening together to perfect felicity . 
It taught him that he had been scarcely more misled by Thorpe 's first boast of the family wealth , than by his subsequent malicious overthrow of it ; that in no sense of the word were they necessitous or poor , and that Catherine would have three thousand pounds . 
The event which it authorized soon followed : Henry and Catherine were married , the bells rang and every body smiled ; and , as this took place within a twelvemonth from the first day of their meeting , it will not appear , after all the dreadful delays occasioned by the General 's cruelty , that they were essentially hurt by it . 
