-- Jacob Penhallow -LRB- of the late firm Wibird and Penhallow -RRB- had taken Mr. William Murray Bradshaw into partnership , and the business of the office would be carried on as usual under the title Penhallow and Bradshaw , Attorneys at Law . 
William Murray Bradshaw struck for a railroad train going to the great seaport , at a station where it stops for wood and water . 
Murray Bradshaw , ten years older than herself , a young man of striking aspect and claims to exceptional ability , had kept his eye on her of late ; but it was generally supposed that he would find a wife in the city , where he was in the habit of going to visit a fashionable relative , Mrs. Clymer Ketchum , of 24 Carat Place . 
If the old man had only given his money to Myrtle , Murray Bradshaw would have made sure of her ; but she was not likely ever to get much of it . 
His money matters had led him to have occasional dealings with the late legal firm of Wibird and Penhallow , which had naturally passed into the hands of the new partnership , Penhallow and Bradshaw . 
He had entire confidence in the senior partner , but not so much in the young man who had been recently associated in the business . 
Mr. William Murray Bradshaw , commonly called by his last two names , was the son of a lawyer of some note for his acuteness , who marked out his calling for him in having him named after the great Lord Mansfield . 
Murray Bradshaw was about twenty-five years old , by common consent good-looking , with a finely formed head , a searching eye , and a sharp-cut mouth , which smiled at his bidding without the slightest reference to the real condition of his feeling at the moment . 
This was a great convenience ; for it gave him an appearance of good-nature at the small expense of a slight muscular movement which was as easy as winking , and deceived everybody but those who had studied him long and carefully enough to find that this play of his features was what a watchmaker would call a detached movement . 
He had been a good scholar in college , not so much by hard study as by skilful veneering , and had taken great pains to stand well with the Faculty , at least one of whom , Byles Gridley , A. M. , had watched him with no little interest as a man with a promising future , provided he were not so astute as to outwit and overreach himself in his excess of contrivance . 
All the young girls in the country , and not a few in the city , with which , as mentioned , he had frequent relations , were on his list of possible availabilities in the matrimonial line of speculation , provided always that their position and prospects were such as would make them proper matches for so considerable a person as the future Hon. William Murray Bradshaw . 
He noticed that her name was apt to come up in his conversations with Murray Bradshaw ; and , as he himself never introduced it , of course the young man must have forced it , as conjurers force a card , and with some special object . 
This set him thinking hard ; and , as a result of it , he determined the next time Mr. Bradshaw brought her name up to set him talking . 
So he talked , not suspecting how carefully the old man listened . 
`` So you do n't think he believes all the mediæval doctrines he is in the habit of preaching , Mr. Bradshaw ? '' 
`` No , sir ; I think he belongs to the class I have seen described somewhere . 
`` Where did you pick up that saying , Mr. Bradshaw ? '' 
The axiom Murray Bradshaw had quoted -- he did not remember from what , -- `` sounded like Coleridge '' -- was staring him in the face from that very page . 
When he remembered how he had pleased himself with that compliment the other day , he blushed like a school-girl ; and then , thinking out the whole trick , -- to hunt up his forgotten book , pick out a phrase or two from it , and play on his weakness with it , to win his good opinion , -- for what purpose he did not know , but doubtless to use him in some way , -- he grinned with a contempt about equally divided between himself and the young schemer . 
he muttered scornfully . 
Niccolo Macchiavelli Bradshaw ! '' 
From this day forward he looked on all the young lawyer 's doings with even more suspicion than before . 
Yet he would not forego his company and conversation ; for he was very agreeable and amusing to study ; and this trick he had played him was , after all , only a diplomatist 's way of flattering his plenipotentiary . 
Some time or other he might cajole England or France or Russia into a treaty with just such a trick . 
Shallower men than he had gone out as ministers of the great Republic . 
A short time before Myrtle Hazard 's disappearance , Mr. Byles Gridley had occasion to call again at the office of Penhallow and Bradshaw on some small matter of business of his own . 
There were papers to look over , and he put on his great round-glassed spectacles . 
He and Mr. Penhallow sat down at the table , and Mr. Bradshaw was at a desk behind them . 
Mr. Bradshaw , if you are not busy , I wish you would look over this bundle of papers . 
This last-named gentleman felt just then a strong impulse to observe the operations of Murray Bradshaw . 
He could not have given any very good reason for it , any more than any of us can for half of what we do . 
`` I should like to examine that conveyance we were speaking of once more , '' said he . 
When he had got them to suit himself , sitting there with his back to Murray Bradshaw , he could see him and all his movements , the desk at which he was standing , and the books in the shelves before him , -- all this time appearing as if he were intent upon his own reading . 
In his hand Mr. Bradshaw held a paper folded like the others , the back of which he read , holding it in such a way that Master Gridley saw very distinctly three large spots of ink upon it , and noticed their position . 
Murray Bradshaw took another hurried glance at the two gentlemen , and then quickly opened the paper . 
He ran it over with a flash of his eye , folded it again , and laid it by itself . 
With another quick turn of his head , as if to see whether he were observed or like to be , he reached his hand out and took a volume down from the shelves . 
In this volume he shut the document , whatever it was , which he had just taken out of the bundle , and placed the book in a very silent and as it were stealthy way back in its place . 
He then gave a look at each of the other papers , and said to his partner : `` Old bills , old leases , and insurance policies that have run out . 
Then turning round to the young man , he slowly repeated the lines , -- ``` Multa senem circumveniunt incommoda , vel quod Quœrit et inventis miser abstinet , ac timet uti ; Vel quod res omnes timide , gelideque ministrat -- ' You remember the passage , Mr. Bradshaw ? '' 
While he was reciting these words from Horace , which he spoke slowly as if he relished every syllable , he kept his eyes on the young man steadily , but without betraying any suspicion . 
Murray Bradshaw 's face was calm as usual , but there was a flush on his cheek , and Master Gridley saw the slight but unequivocal signs of excitement . 
He waited patiently , on the pretext of business , until Mr. Bradshaw got up and left the office . 
As soon as he and the senior partner were alone , Master Gridley took a lazy look at some of the books in his library . 
Then he drew the back of his forefinger along the books on the shelf , as if nothing interested him in them , and strolled to the shelf in front of the desk at which Murray Bradshaw had stood . 
He took down the secondvolume of the Corpus Juris Civilis , turned the leaves over mechanically , as if in search of some title , and replaced it . 
He looked round for a moment . 
His hand was on the book , whether taking it out or putting it back was not evident , when the door opened and Mr. William Murray Bradshaw entered . 
`` Ah , Mr. Gridley , '' he said , `` you are not studying the civil law , are you ? '' 
He strode towards him as he spoke , his face white , his eyes fixed fiercely on him . 
`` It always interests me , Mr. Bradshaw , '' he answered , `` and this is a fine edition of it . 
He looked impenetrable , and whether or not he had seen more than Mr. Bradshaw wished him to see , that gentleman could not tell . 
Ever since the day when Master Gridley had made that over-curious observation of the young lawyer 's proceedings at the office , Murray Bradshaw had shown a far livelier interest than before in the conditions and feelings of Myrtle Hazard . 
He had called frequently at The Poplars to talk over business matters , which seemed of late to require a deal of talking . 
He had been very deferential to Miss Silence , and had wound himself into the confidence of Miss Badlam . 
He found it harder to establish any very near relations with Myrtle , who had never seemed to care much for any young man but Cyprian Eveleth , and to care for him quite as much as Olive 's brother as for any personal reason . 
Murray Bradshaw did not stop to guess and wonder . 
He said nothing about it , but wound the shining threads on his finger , and , as soon as he got home , examined them with a magnifier . 
But Murray Bradshaw 's plain dress and carpet-bag were more than made up for by the air and tone which imply the habit of being attended to . 
The clerk saw that in a glance , and , as he looked at the name and address in the book , spoke sharply in the explosive dialect of his tribe , -- `` Jun ! 
When Cyprian Eveleth reached the same hotel late at night , he appeared in his best clothes and with a new valise ; but his amiable countenance and gentle voice and modest manner sent him up two stories higher , where he found himself in a room not much better than a garret , feeling lonely enough , for he did not know he had an acquaintance in the same house . 
Murray Bradshaw returned to his hotel , and , going to his chamber , summoned all his faculties in state council to determine what course he should follow , now that he had the object of his search certainly within reaching distance . 
There was no danger now of her eluding him ; but the grave question arose , what was he to do when he stood face to face with her . 
She must not go , -- that was fixed . 
If she once got off in that ship , she might be safe enough ; but what would become of certain projects in which hewas interested , -- that was the question . 
But again , she was no child , to be turned away from her adventure by cajolery , or by any such threats as common truants would find sufficient to scare them back to their duty . 
He could tell the facts of her disguise and the manner of her leaving home to the captain of the vessel , and induce him to send her ashore as a stray girl , to be returned to her relatives . 
But this would only make her furious with him ; and he must not alienate her from himself at any rate . 
He might plead with her in the name of duty , for the sake of her friends , for the good name of the family . 
She had thought all these things over before she ran away . 
What if he should address her as a lover , throw himself at her feet , implore her to pity him and give up her rash scheme , and , if things came to the very worst , offer to follow her wherever she went , if she would accept him in the only relation that would render it possible . 
He would rather risk that than lose all hold upon her . 
She could not help feeling flattered at such an offer from him , -- him , William Murray Bradshaw , the rising young man of his county , at her feet , his eyes melting with the love he would throw into them , his tones subdued to their most sympathetic quality , and all those phrases on his lips which every day beguile women older and more discreet than this romantic , long-imprisoned girl , whose rash and adventurous enterprise was an assertion of her womanhood and her right to dispose of herself as she chose . 
He had not lived to be twenty-five years old without knowing his power with women . 
He believed in himself so thoroughly , that his very confidence was a strong promise of success . 
In case all his entreaties , arguments , and offers made no impression , should he make use of that supreme resource , not to be employed save in extreme need , but which was of a nature , in his opinion , to shake a resolution stronger than this young girl was like to oppose to it ? 
Murray Bradshaw called to a boatman near by and ordered the man to row him over as fast as he could to the vessel lying in the stream . 
He had no sooner reached the deck of the Swordfish than he asked for the young person who had just been put on board . 
His heart beat , in spite of his cool temprament , as he went down the steps leading to the cabin . 
The young person was talking earnestly with the captain , and , on his turning round , Mr. William Murray Bradshaw had the pleasure of recognizing his young friend , Mr. Cyprian Eveleth . 
Some say that Lawyer Bradshaw is after her ; but my ! 
he is ten years older than she is . 
All this she reported to Cyprian , and all this was got out of him by Mr. William Murray Bradshaw . 
Dyspepsia would answer the purpose well enough ; so Mr. Murray Bradshaw picked up a medical book and read ten minutes or more for that complaint . 
At the end of this time he was an accomplished dyspeptic ; for lawyers half learn a thing quicker than the members of any other profession . 
He presented himself with a somewhat forlorn countenance to Dr. Fordyce Hurlbut , as suffering from some of the less formidable symptoms of that affection . 
Murray Bradshaw was afraid to meddle directly . 
He knew something more about the history of Myrtle 's adventure than any of his neighbors , and , among other things , that it had given Mr. Byles Gridley a peculiar interest in her , of which he could take advantage . 
IT was impossible for Myrtle to be frequently at Olive 's without often meeting Olive 's brother , and her reappearance with the bloom on her cheek was a signal which her other admirers were not likely to overlook as a hint to recommence their flattering demonstrations ; and so it was that she found herself all at once the centre of attraction to three young men with whom we have made some acquaintance , namely , Cyprian Eveleth , Gifted Hopkins , and Murray Bradshaw . 
Indeed , they all became used to meeting him in a brotherly sort of relation ; only , as he was not the brother of two of them , it gave him the inside track , as the sporting men say , with reference to any rivals for the good-will of either of these . 
His second rival , Mr. William Murray Bradshaw , had made a half-playful bet with his fair relative , Mrs. Clymer Ketchum , that he would bag a girl within twelve months of date who should unite three desirable qualities , specified in the bet , in a higher degree than any one of the five who were on the matrimonial programme which she had laid out for him , -- and Myrtle was the girl with whom he meant to win the bet . 
But then it must be remembered that Murray Bradshaw had a poet for his rival , to say nothing of the brother of a bosom friend . 
`` What a pity , '' he said to himself , `` that this Gifted Hopkins has n't got the brains of that William Murray Bradshaw ! 
Has Mr. Bradshaw been following after her lately ? 
He is taken with her too . 
Did n't you ever think she would have to give in to Murray Bradshaw at last ? 
He looks to me like a man that would hold on desperately as a lover . '' 
If Myrtle Hazard , instead of being a half-finished school-girl , hardly sixteen years old , had been a young woman of eighteen or nineteen , it would have been plain sailing enough for Murray Bradshaw . 
But he knew what a distance their ages seemed just now to put between them , -- a distance which would grow practically less and less with every year , and he did not wish to risk anything so long as there was no danger of interference . 
He rather encouraged Gifted Hopkins to write poetry to Myrtle . 
`` Go in , Gifted , '' he said , `` there 's no telling what may come of it , '' -- and Gifted did go in at a great rate . 
Murray Bradshaw did not write poetry himself , but he read poetry with a good deal of effect , and he would sometimes take a hint from one of Gifted Hopkins 's last productions to recite a passionate lyric of Byron or Moore , into which he would artfully throw so much meaning that Myrtle was almost as much puzzled , in her simplicity , to know what it meant , as she had been by the religious fervors of the Rev. Mr. Stoker . 
The three young men had access to her as she walked to and from meeting and in her frequent rambles , besides the opportunities Cyprian had of meeting her in his sister 's company , and the convenient visits which , in connection with the great lawsuit , Murray Bradshaw could make , without question , at The Poplars . 
It was not long before Cyprian perceived that he could never pass a certain boundary of intimacy with Myrtle . 
Very pleasant and sisterly always she was with him ; but she never looked as if she might mean more than she said , and cherished a little spark of sensibility which might be fanned into the flame of love . 
Cyprian felt this so certainly that he was on the point of telling his grief to Bathsheba , who looked to him as if she would sympathize as heartily with him as his own sister , and whose sympathy would have a certain flavor in it , -- something which one can not find in the heart of the dearest sister that ever lived . 
Mr. William Murray Bradshaw had called on Clement the day after his arrival . 
He had already met the Deacon in the street , and asked some questions about his transient boarder . 
He , the Deacon , thought of having a few religious friends to meet the young gentleman , if he felt so disposed ; and should like to have him , Mr. Bradshaw , come in and take a part in the exercises . 
-- Mr. Bradshaw was unfortunately engaged . 
He thought the young gentleman could hardly find time for such a meeting during his brief visit . 
Mr. Bradshaw expected naturally to see a youth of imperfect constitution , and cachectic or dyspeptic tendencies , who was in training to furnish one of those biographies beginning with the statement that , from his infancy , the subject of it showed no inclination for boyish amusements , and so on , until he dies out , for the simple reason that there was not enough of him to live . 
When Mr. Clement Lindsay presented himself , Mr. Bradshaw was a good deal surprised to see a young fellow of such a mould . 
He pleased himself with the idea that he knew a man of mark at sight , and he set down Clement in that category at his first glance . 
Mr. Bradshaw looked at the young man to know what he meant . 
Clement stared at Mr. Bradshaw , and wondered whether he was trying to make a fool of him . 
said Mr. Bradshaw . 
He saw that there had been a slight misunderstanding between the young man and his worthy host , but it was none of his business , and there were other subjects of interest to talk about . 
Tell me , Mr. Bradshaw , who is there that I shall meet if I go ? 
Mr. Bradshaw liked the thought of showing the young man to some of his friends there . 
And although Clement was particularly good-looking , and would have been called a distinguishable youth anywhere , Mr. Bradshaw considered himself far more than his match , in all probability , in social accomplishments . 
He expected , therefore , a certain amount of reflex credit for bringing such a fine young fellow in his company , and a second instalment of reputation from outshining him in conversation . 
This was rather nice calculating , but Murray Bradshaw always calculated . 
With most men life is like backgammon , half skill , and half luck , but with him it was like chess . 
He never pushed a pawn without reckoning the cost , and when his mind was least busy it was sure to be half a dozen moves ahead of the game as it was standing . 
Mr. Bradshaw gave Clement a pretty dinner enough for such a place as Oxbow Village . 
He offered him some good wine , and would have made him talk so as to show his lining , to use one of his own expressions , but Clement had apparently been through that trifling experience , and could not be coaxed into saying more than he meant to say . 
Murray Bradshaw was very curious to find out how it was that he had become the victim of such a rudimentary miss as Susan Posey . 
Why no , of course not ; had not he made all proper inquiries about that when Susan came to town ? 
A small inheritance from an aunt or uncle , or some such relative , enough to make her a desirable party in the eyes of certain villagers perhaps , but nothing to allure a man like this , whose face and figure as marketable possessions were worth say a hundred thousand in the girl 's own right , as Mr. Bradshaw put it roughly , with another hundred thousand if his talent is what some say , and if his connection is a desirable one , a fancy price , -- anything he would fetch . 
Must have got caught when he was a child . 
Why the diavolodid n't he break it off , then ? 
She had , in fact , in a quiet way , given Mr. Bradshaw to understand that he would probably meet Myrtle at the Parsonage if he dropped in at their small gathering . 
Mr. William Murray Bradshaw had asked the privilege of waiting upon Myrtle to the little party at the Eveleths . 
Before William Murray Bradshaw and Myrtle Hazard had reached the Parsonage , the girl 's cheeks were flushed and her dark eyes were flashing with a new excitement . 
Murray Bradshaw felt sure that the game was in his hands if he played it with only common prudence . 
There was no need of hurrying this child , -- it might startle her to make downright love abruptly ; and now that he had an ally in her own household , and was to have access to her with a freedom he had never before enjoyed , there was a refined pleasure in playing his fish , -- this gamest of golden-scaled creatures , -- which had risen to his fly , and which he wished to hook , but not to land , until he was sure it would be worth his while . 
Does not Myrtle look more in her place by the side of Murray Bradshaw than she would with Gifted hitched on her arm ? '' 
Wants you to introduce him , Mr. Bradshaw . '' 
The bell rang presently , and Murray Bradshaw slipped out into the entry to meet the two lovers . 
he said , as he met them at the door . 
There was no expression of contempt about Mr. Bradshaw 's manner or language at which he could take offence . 
Only he had the air of a man who praises his neighbor without stint , with a calm consciousness that he himself is out of reach of comparison in the possessions or qualities which he is admiring in the other . 
Clement was right in his obscure perception of Mr. Bradshaw 's feeling while he was making his phrases . 
That gentleman was , in another moment , to have the tingling delight of showing the grand creature he had just begun to tame . 
He was going to extinguish the pallid light of Susan 's prettiness in the brightness of Myrtle 's beauty . 
He would bring this young man , neutralized and rendered entirely harmless by his irrevocable pledge to a slight girl , face to face with a masterpiece of young womanhood , and say to him , not in words , but as plainly as speech could have told him , `` Behold my captive ! '' 
It was a proud moment for Murray Bradshaw . 
He had seen , or thought that he had seen , the assured evidence of a speedy triumph over all the obstacles of Myrtle 's youth and his own present seeming slight excess of maturity . 
Unless he were very greatly mistaken , he could now walk the course ; the plate was his , no matter what might be the entries . 
She was at that moment talking with the worthy Rector , and turned when Mr. Bradshaw spoke to her . 
But she was excitable , and whatever the cause of the disturbance may have been , it seemed prudent that she should go home early ; and the excellent Rector insisted on caring for her , much to the discontent of Mr. William Murray Bradshaw . 
Mr. Bradshaw asked , with eager interest . 
Mr. Bradshaw thought to himself . -RRB- 
`` Thank you , no , '' he answered , recovering himself . 
Mr. Bradshaw was not disposed to press his question in the face of the calm , repressive look the young man gave him . 
Mr. Bradshaw called the day after the party , but did not see her . 
He met her walking , and thought she seemed a little more distant than common . 
He called again at The Poplars a few days afterwards , and was met in the entry by Miss Cynthia , with whom he had a long conversation on matters involving Myrtle 's interests and their own . 
Clement read Murray Bradshaw correctly . 
All this Clement saw , as in apocalyptic vision , stored up for the wife of Murray Bradshaw , if he read him rightly , as he felt sure he did , from the few times he had seen him . 
He would be rich by and by , very probably . 
He looked like one of those young men who are sharp and hard enough to come to fortune . 
MR. WILLIAM MURRAY BRADSHAW was in pretty intimate relations with Miss Cynthia Badlam . 
It was well understood between them that it might be of very great advantage to both of them if he should in due time become the accepted lover of Myrtle Hazard . 
So long as he could be reasonably secure against interference , he did not wish to hurry her in making her decision . 
Two things he did wish to be sure of , if possible , before asking her the great question ; -- first , that she would answer it in the affirmative ; and secondly , that certain contingencies , the turning of which was not as yet absolutely capable of being predicted , should happen as he expected . 
Cynthia had the power of furthering his wishes in many direct and indirect ways , and he felt sure of her co-operation . 
She had some reason to fear his enmity if she displeased him , and he had taken good care to make her understand that her interests would be greatly promoted by the success of the plan which he had formed , and which was con fided to her alone . 
He kept the most careful eye on every possible source of disturbance to this quietly maturing plan . 
He had no objection to have Gifted Hopkins about Myrtle as much as she would endure to have him . 
As for that youth , Clement Lindsay , if he had not taken himself off as he did , Murray Bradshaw confessed to himself that he should have felt uneasy . 
He was too good-looking , and too clever a young fellow to have knocking about among fragile susceptibilities . 
But on reflection he saw there could be no danger . 
Mr. Bradshaw began humming the hymn , `` When I can read my title clear , '' adding some variations of his own . 
Murray Bradshaw was surprised and confounded at the easy way in which she received his compliments , and played with his advances , after the fashion of the trained ball-room belles , who know how to be almost caressing in manner , and yet are really as far off from the deluded victim of their suavities as the topmost statue of the Milan cathedral from the peasant that kneels on its floor . 
The change which surprised Murray Bradshaw could not fail to be noticed by all those about her . 
MR. BRADSHAW was obliged to leave town for a week or two on business connected with the great land-claim . 
On his return , feeling in pretty good spirits , as the prospects looked favorable , he went to make a call at The Poplars . 
He asked first for Miss Hazard . 
This announcement seemed to make a deep impression on Murray Bradshaw , for his feelings found utterance in one of the most energetic forms of language to which ears polite or impolite are accustomed . 
He next asked for Miss Silence , who soon presented herself . 
Mr. Bradshaw asked , in a rather excited way , `` Is it possible , Miss Withers , that your niece has quitted you to go to a city school ? '' 
She has seemed so fond of dress lately , and once she spoke of learning -- yes , Mr. Bradshaw , of learning to -- dance ! 
That was such a tremendous thing to think of , and especially to speak of in Mr. Bradshaw 's presence , -- for the most pathetic image in the world to many women is that of themselves in tears , -- that it brought a return of the same overflow , which served as a substitute for conversation until Miss Badlam entered the apartment . 
Miss Cynthia went to the door with Mr. Bradshaw , and the conversation immediately became short and informal . 
Murray Bradshaw went home and wrote a long letter to Mrs. Clymer Ketchum , of 24 Carat Place , containing many interesting remarks and inquiries , some of the latter relating to Madam Delacoste 's institution for the education of young ladies . 
Mr. William Murray Bradshaw tried all his fascinations upon her , but she parried compliments so well , and put off all his nearer advances so dexterously , that he could not advance beyond the region of florid courtesy , and never got a chance , if so disposed , to risk a question which he would not ask rashly , believing that , if Myrtle once said No , there would be little chance of her ever saying Yes . 
She soon got another letter from Mr. William Murray Bradshaw , which explained the interest he had taken in Madam Delacoste 's school , -- all which she knew pretty nearly beforehand , for she had found out a good part of Myrtle 's history in the half-hour they had spent in company . 
`` I had a particular reason for my inquiries about the school , '' he wrote . 
You 're dead in love with this girl , Murray , you know you are . 
You owe something to the family , Mr. William Murray Bradshaw ! 
Only I know what life is , Murray B. Getting married is jumping overboard , any way you look at it , and if you must save some woman from drowning an old maid , try to find one with a cork jacket , or she 'll carry you down with her . '' 
Murray Bradshaw was calculating enough , but he shook his head over this letter . 
It was too demonish cold-blooded for him , he said to himself . 
Never mind , -- he must have Mrs. Clymer Ketchum 's house and influence for his own purposes . 
Myrtle Hazard must become her guest , and then , if circumstances were favorable , he was certain of obtaining her aid in his project . 
Mrs. Clymer Ketchum had written to Murray Bradshaw that she had asked his pretty milkmaid to come and stay awhile with her , but he had been away on business , and only arrived in the city a day or two before the party . 
He did get one opportunity , however , and used it well . 
They had so many things to talk about in common , that she could not help finding him good company . 
She might well be pleased , for he was an adept in the curious art of being agreeable , as other people are in chess or billiards , and had made a special study of her tastes , as a physician studies a patient 's constitution . 
There had been times when Murray Bradshaw would have offered his heart and hand to Myrtle at once , if he had felt sure that she would accept him . 
But he preferred playing the safe game now , and only wanted to feel sure of her . 
He had done his best to be agreeable , and could hardly doubt that he had made an impression . 
He dressed well when in the city , -- even elegantly , -- he had many of the lesser social accomplishments , was a good dancer , and compared favorably in all such matters with the more dashing young fellows in society . 
He was a better talker than most of them , and he knew more about the girl he was dealing with than they could know . 
`` You have only got to say the word , Murray , '' Mrs. Clymer Ketchum said to her relative , `` and you can have her . 
Murray Bradshaw laughed , and told Mrs. Clymer Ketchum not to worry about him ; he knew what he was doing . 
On the morning of the day of the great party Mr. William Murray Bradshaw received a brief telegram , which seemed to cause him great emotion , as he changed color , uttered a forcible exclamation , and began walking up and down his room in a very nervous kind of way . 
Whatever bearing this telegram may have had upon his plans , he made up his mind that he would contrive an opportunity somehow that very evening to propose himself as a suitor to Myrtle Hazard . 
He could not say that he felt as absolutely certain of getting the right answer as he had felt at some previous periods . 
Myrtle knew her price , he said to himself , a great deal better than when she was a simple country girl . 
Murray Bradshaw was ready to land his fish now , but he was not quite sure that she was yet hooked , and he had a feeling that by this time she knew every fly in his book . 
However , as he had made up his mind not to wait another day , he addressed himself to the trial before him with a determination to succeed , if any means at his command would insure success . 
He arrayed himself with faultless elegance : nothing must be neglected on such an occasion . 
He went forth firm and grave as a general going into a battle where all is to be lost or won . 
He entered the blazing saloon with the unfailing smile upon his lips , to which he set them as he set his watch to a particular hour and minute . 
The rooms were pretty well filled when he arrived and made his bow before the blazing , rustling , glistening , waving , blushing appearance under which palpitated , with the pleasing excitement of the magic scene over which its owner presided , the heart of Mrs. Clymer Ketchum . 
Murray Bradshaw was fairly dazzled with the brilliant effect of Myrtle in full dress . 
He did not know before what handsome arms she had , -- Judith Pride 's famous arms , -- which the high-colored young men in top-boots used to swear were the handsomest pair in New England , -- right over again . 
He did not know before with what defiant effect she would light up , standing as she did directly under a huge lustre , in full flower of flame , like a burning azalea . 
He was not a man who intended to let his sentiments carry him away from the serious interests of his future , yet , as he looked upon Myrtle Hazard , his heart gave one throb which made him feel in every pulse that this was a woman who in her own right , simply as a woman , could challenge the homage of the proudest young man of her time . 
There was an unusual look of benignity upon his firmly moulded features , and an air of ease which rather surprised Mr. Bradshaw , who did not know all the social experiences which had formed a part of the old Master 's history . 
The greeting between them was courteous , but somewhat formal , as Mr. Bradshaw was acting as one of the masters of ceremony . 
He nodded to Gifted in an easy way , and led them both into the immediate Presence . 
Mr. Murray Bradshaw had been watching the opportunity for carrying out his intentions , with his pleasant smile covering up all that was passing in his mind , and Master Byles Gridley , looking equally unconcerned , had been watching him . 
Not the way , certainly , that most young men would arrange their great trial scene ; but Murray Bradshaw was a lawyer in love as much as in business , and considered himself as pleading a cause before a jury of Myrtle Hazard 's conflicting motives . 
The steady nerves of William Murray Bradshaw felt unwonted thrills and tremors tingling through them , as he came nearer and nearer the few simple words with which he was to make Myrtle Hazard the mistress of his destiny . 
His tones were becoming lower and more serious ; there were slight breaks once or twice in the conversation ; Myrtle had cast down her eyes . 
`` There is but one word more to add , '' he murmured softly , as he bent towards her -- A grave voice interrupted him . 
`` Excuse me , Mr. Bradshaw , '' said Master Byles Gridley , `` I wish to present a young gentleman to my friend here . 
I promised to show him the most charming young person I have the honor to be acquainted with , and I must redeem my pledge . 
He addressed her , therefore , in the usual terms of courtesy , and then turned and greeted Mr. Bradshaw , whom he had never met since their coming together at Oxbow Village . 
Whatever it was , it broke the charm which had been weaving between her and Murray Bradshaw . 
He was not foolish enough to make a scene . 
What fault could he find with Clement Lindsay , who had only done as any gentleman would do with a lady to whom he had just been introduced , -- addressed a few polite words to her ? 
But Murray Bradshaw could not help seeing that Myrtle had transferred her attention , at least for the moment , from him to the new-comer . 
He folded his arms and waited , -- but he waited in vain . 
The inward rage of Murray Bradshaw at being interrupted just at the moment when he was , as he thought , about to cry checkmate and finish the first great game he had ever played , may well be imagined . 
Fortunately for him the young man who had been introduced at such a most critical moment was not one from whom he need apprehend any serious interference . 
WHAT the nature of the telegram was which had produced such an effect on the feelings and plans of Mr. William Murray Bradshaw nobody especially interested knew but himself . 
However that might be , Mr. Bradshaw no sooner heard that Myrtle had suddenly left the city for Oxbow Village , -- for what reason he puzzled himself to guess , -- than he determined to follow her at once , and take up the conversation he had begun at the party where it left off . 
If any underhand contrivance was at work , involving the welfare of any one in whom he was interested , he was a dangerous person for the plotters , for he had plenty of time to attend to them , and would be apt to take a kind of pleasure in matching his wits against another crafty person 's , -- such a one , for instance , as Mr. Macchiavelli Bradshaw . 
Mr. Bradshaw and Miss Cynthia went into the parlor together , and Mistress Kitty retired to her kitchen . 
The conversation which took place in the hearing of the invisible third party began in a singularly free-and-easy manner on Mr. Bradshaw 's part . 
`` That 's more than I can tell you , Mr. Bradshaw . 
Mr. Bradshaw looked as if this did not please him particularly . 
If he was the object of her thoughts she would not avoid him , surely . 
Mr. Bradshaw playfully finished the sentence for Miss Cynthia . 
`` Do n't trouble yourself about Kitty Fagan , for pity 's sake , Mr. Bradshaw . 
Murray Bradshaw started . 
He got up and opened softly all the doors leading from the room , one after another , and looked out . 
`` If you wait till this old house keeps still , Mr. Bradshaw , you might as well wait till the river has run by . 
He got up once more and opened every door softly and looked out . 
He fixed his eye suspiciously on a large sofa at the other side of the room , and went , looking half ashamed of his extreme precaution , and peeped under it , to see if there was any one hidden there to listen . 
Then he came back and drew his chair close up to the table at which Miss Badlam had seated herself . 
The reader will find out in due time whether she listened to any purpose or not . -RSB- 
Whether his introduction to her at the party , just at the instant when Murray Bradshaw was about to make a declaration , saved her from being in another moment the promised bride of that young gentleman , or not , we will not be so rash as to say . 
She could hardly be in love with this young artist ; she knew that his affections were plighted to another , -- a fact which keeps most young women from indulging unruly fancies ; yet her mind was possessed by his image to such an extent that it left little room for that of Mr. William Murray Bradshaw . 
If she had accepted Murray Bradshaw , she would have pledged herself to a worldly life . 
If she had refused him , it would perhaps have given her a taste of power that might have turned her into a coquette . 
Murray Bradshaw was perfectly determined , and not to be kept back by any trivial hindrances , such as her present unwillingness to accept him , or even her repugnance to him , if a freak of the moment had carried her so far . 
Mr. Bradshaw 's lessons had not been thrown away on his attentive listener . 
Mistress Kitty began telling in an undertone of the meeting between Mr. Bradshaw and Miss Badlam , and of the arrangements she made for herself as the reporter of the occasion . 
There was some deep-laid plot between Murray Bradshaw and Cynthia Badlam , involving the interests of some of the persons connected with the late Malachi Withers ; for that the paper described by Kitty was the same that he had seen the young man conceal in the Corpus Juris Civilis , it was impossible to doubt . 
`` Does Mr. William Murray Bradshaw know anything about any papers , such as I am referring to , that may have been sent to the office ? '' 
`` You had better ask Mr. William Murray Bradshaw yourself about that , '' she answered . 
I do n't choose to be catechised about Murray Bradshaw 's business . 
Go to him , if you please , if you want to find out about it . '' 
Has Mr. William Murray Bradshaw ever delivered into your hands any papers relating to the affairs of the late Malachi Withers , for your safe keeping ? '' 
`` I wish to know all that you can tell me about a certain paper , or certain papers , which I have reason to believe Mr. William Murray Bradshaw committed to your keeping . '' 
Do you want to make him kill me ? 
Among them was an oblong packet , sealed with what appeared to be the office-seal of Messrs. Penhallow and Bradshaw . 
I am in the power of a dreadful man -- '' `` You mean Mr. William Murray Bradshaw ? '' 
`` I mean him . '' 
`` Has there not been some understanding between you that he should become the approved suitor of Miss Myrtle Hazard ? '' 
How long is Mr. William Murray Bradshaw like to be away ? '' 
`` Perhaps a few days , -- perhaps weeks , -- and then he will come back and kill me , -- or -- or -- worse ! 
It was at his request that Mr. Bradshaw had undertaken his journey , which , as he believed , -- and as Mr. Bradshaw had still stronger evidence of a strictly confidential nature which led him to feel sure , -- would end in the final settlement of the great land claim in favor of their client . 
It was plain that the successful issue of the long process would make the heirs of the late Malachi Withers possessors of an ample fortune , and it was also plain that the firm of Penhallow and Bradshaw were like to receive , in such case , the largest fee that had gladdened the professional existence of its members . 
He could not help thinking that Mr. Bradshaw believed that Myrtle Hazard would eventually come to a part at least of this inheritance . 
For the story was , that he was paying his court to the young lady whenever he got an opportunity , and that he was cultivating an intimacy with Miss Cynthia Badlam . 
`` Bradshaw would n't make a move in that direction , '' Mr. Penhallow said to himself , `` until he felt pretty sure that it was going to be a paying business . 
If he was only a young minister now , there 'd be no difficulty about it . 
But I do n't know what she 'll say to Bradshaw . 
Perhaps he 'd better have a hint to go to meeting a little more regularly . 
However , I suppose he knows what he 's about . '' 
I am afraid the good standing of your partner , Mr. William Murray Bradshaw , is concerned in the matter . 
Would it be a surprise to you , if he had carried his acuteness in some particular case like the one I am to mention beyond the prescribed limits ? '' 
The question was put so diplomatically that there was no chance for an indignant denial of the possibility of Mr. Bradshaw 's being involved in any discreditable transaction . 
`` It is possible , '' he answered , `` that Bradshaw 's keen wits may have betrayed him into sharper practice than I should altogether approve in any business we carried on together . 
He is a very knowing young man , but I ca n't think he is foolish enough , to say nothing of his honesty , to make any false step of the kind you seem to hint . 
I think he might on occasion go pretty near the line , but I do n't believe he would cross it . '' 
`` Do you recollect giving some of them to Mr. Bradshaw to look over ? '' 
`` Now I come to think of it , I believe I did ; but he reported to me , if I remember right , that they amounted to nothing . '' 
Thereupon Mr. Gridley proceeded to state succinctly the singular behavior of Murray Bradshaw in taking one paper from a number handed to him by Mr. Penhallow , and concealing it in a volume . 
He related how he was just on the point of taking out the volume which contained the paper , when Mr. Bradshaw entered and disconcerted him . 
He had , however , noticed three spots on the paper by which he should know it anywhere . 
He then repeated the substance of Kitty Fagan 's story , accenting the fact that she too noticed three remarkable spots on the paper which Mr. Bradshaw had pointed out to Miss Badlam as the one so important to both of them . 
Here he rested the case for the moment . 
He thought it not unlikely that Mr. Bradshaw was a little smitten with the young lady up at The Poplars , and that he had made some diplomatic overtures to the duenna , after the approved method of suitors . 
She was young for Bradshaw , -- very young , -- but he knew his own affairs . 
If he chose to make love to a child , it was natural enough that he should begin by courting her nurse . 
Master Byles Gridley lost himself for half a minute in a most discreditable inward discussion as to whether Laura Penhallow was probably one or two years older than Mr. Bradshaw . 
That was his way , -- he could not help it . 
He could not think of anything without these mental parentheses . 
But he came back to business at the end of his half-minute . 
If , for instance , it should prove that this envelope contained matters relating solely to private transactions between Mr. Bradshaw and Miss Badlam , concerning no one but themselves , -- and if the words on the back of the envelope and the seal had been put there merely as a protection for a package containing private papers of a delicate but perfectly legitimate character -- '' The lawyer paused , as careful experts do , after bending the bow of an hypothesis , before letting the arrow go . 
Could n't be anything in such a violent supposition as that , -- and yet such a crafty fellow as that Bradshaw , -- what trick was he not up to ? 
Mr. Bradshaw is off , as you know , and the business on which he is gone is important , -- very important . 
He can be depended on for that ; he has acted all along as if he had a personal interest in the success of our firm beyond his legal relation to it . '' 
He looked troubled and absent-minded , and , when Miss Laura ventured to ask him how long Mr. Bradshaw was like to be gone , answered her in such a way that the girl who waited at table concluded that he did n't mean to have Miss Laury keep company with Mr. Bradshaw , or he 'd never have spoke so dreadful hash to her when she ahst about him . 
`` How 's Mr. Bradshaw ? '' 
`` Well , the young squire , he 's off travellin ' somewhere in the West , or to Washi n'ton , or somewhere else , -- I do n't jestly know where . 
They say that he 's follerin ' up the courts in the business about old Malachi 's estate . 
Murray Bradshaw was away , and here was this handsome and agreeable youth coming in to poach on the preserve of which she considered herself the gamekeeper . 
Miss Cynthia wrote a letter to Murray Bradshaw that very evening , telling him that he had better come back to Oxbow Village as quickly as he could , unless he wished to find his place occupied by an intruder . 
Cynthia Badlam wrote a pressing letter to Murray Bradshaw . 
Kitty Fagan answered its summons , and presently entered the parlor and announced that Mr. Bradshaw was in the library , and wished to see the ladies . 
With these reflections in her mind , Mistress Kitty delivered her message , not without a gleam of malicious intelligence in her look that stung Mr. Bradshaw sharply . 
He had noticed a hat in the entry , and a little stick by it which he remembered well as one he had seen carried by Clement Lindsay . 
`` I 'm afraid so , Mr. Bradshaw . 
He 's been here several times , and they seem to be getting intimate . 
Murray Bradshaw looked sharply at it . 
Murray Bradshaw went home in a very desperate state of feeling . 
He had laid his plans , as he thought , with perfect skill , and the certainty of their securing their end . 
He was to offer his hand -- and heart , of course -- to Myrtle , and it was to be accepted . 
It had been a matter of pride with Murray Bradshaw that he never lost his temper so as to interfere with the precise course of action which his cool judgment approved ; but now he was almost beside himself with passion . 
His labors , as he believed , had secured the favorable issue of the great case so long pending . 
He had followed Myrtle through her whole career , if not as her avowed lover , at least as one whose friendship promised to flower in love in due season . 
Myrtle followed her down stairs almost immediately , and went into the parlor , where Mr. Bradshaw was waiting . 
Never in his calmest moments had he worn a more insinuating smile on his features than that with which he now greeted Myrtle . 
Murray Bradshaw thought little of this somewhat formal address , -- a few minutes would break this thin film to pieces . 
He was not only a suitor with a prize to gain , he was a colloquial artist about to employ all the resources of his specialty . 
He introduced the conversation in the most natural and easy way , by giving her the message from a former schoolmate to which he had referred , coloring it so delicately , as he delivered it , that it became an innocent-looking flattery . 
Myrtle found herself in a rose-colored atmosphere , not from Murray Bradshaw 's admiration , as it seemed , but only reflected by his mind from another source . 
That was one of his arts , -- always , if possible , to associate himself incidentally , as it appeared , and unavoidably , with an agreeable impression . 
So Myrtle was betrayed into smiling and being pleased before he had said a word about himself or his affairs . 
Then he told her of the adventures and labors of his late expedition ; of certain evidence which at the very last moment he had unearthed , and which was very probably the turning-point in the case . 
He could not help feeling that she must eventually reap some benefit from the good fortune with which his efforts had been attended . 
The thought that it might yet be so had been a great source of encouragement to him , -- it would always be a great happiness to him to remember that he had done anything to make her happy . 
Myrtle was very glad that he had been so far successful , -- she did not know that it made much difference to her , but she was obliged to him for the desire of serving her that he had expressed . 
`` I know , Mr. Bradshaw , it has been one of kindness . 
He sprang the great confession on Myrtle a little sooner than he had meant . 
`` It can not be , Mr. Bradshaw , -- it must not be . 
`` I have thanked you for any services you may have rendered me , Mr. Bradshaw , '' Myrtle answered , very calmly , `` and I hope you will add one more to them by sparing me this rude questioning . 
But Murray Bradshaw had gone too far to control himself , -- he listened only to the rage which blinded him . 
he said . 
Myrtle stood , arrested , whether by fear , or curiosity , or the passive subjection of her muscles to his imperious will , it would be hard to say . 
Murray Bradshaw took out the spotted paper from his breast-pocket , and held it up before her . 
he exclaimed . 
Murray Bradshaw walked deliberately to the fireplace , and laid the spotted paper upon the burning coals . 
He folded his arms , and stood looking at the wreck of Myrtle 's future , the work of his cruel hand . 
She had kept her eyes steadily on him all the time , and was still gazing at the altar on which her happiness had been in some way offered up , when the door was opened by Kitty Fagan , and Master Byles Gridley was ushered into the parlor . 
Murray Bradshaw exclaimed , in a hoarse and savage voice , as he passed out of the room , and strode through the entry and down the avenue . 
It was the last time the old gate of The Poplars was to open or close for him . 
The same day he left the village ; and the next time his name was mentioned it was as an officer in one of the regiments just raised and about marching to the seat of war . 
That Murray Bradshaw thought he was inflicting a deadly injury on her was plain enough . 
Miss Cynthia knew that all Murray Bradshaw 's plans , in which he had taken care that she should have a personal interest , had utterly failed . 
What he had done with the means of revenge in his power , -- if , indeed , they were still in his power , -- she did not know . 
She only knew that there had been a terrible scene , and that he had gone , leaving it uncertain whether he would ever return . 
Myrtle Hazard opened her eyes very widely , for the paper Mr. Penhallow held looked exactly like that which Murray Bradshaw had burned , and , what was curious , had some spots on it just like some she had noticed on that . 
`` Our distinguished young townsman , William Murray Bradshaw , Esq. , has been among the first to respond to the call of the country for champions to defend her from traitors . 
We understand that he has obtained a captaincy in the -- the Regiment , about to march to the threatened seat of war . 
May victory perch on his banners ! '' 
He was breathing with great difficulty ; his face was almost convulsed with the effort , but she recognized him in a moment ; it was Murray Bradshaw , -- Captain Bradshaw , -- as she knew by the bars on his coat flung upon the bed where he had just been laid . 
She addressed him by name , tenderly as if he had been a dear brother ; she saw on his face that hers were to be the last kind words he would ever hear . 
He turned his glazing eyes upon her . 
he said in a feeble voice . 
He started . 
`` I have nothing to forgive you , Mr. Bradshaw . 
he cried out , rising suddenly in bed , and clasping his hands behind his head to give him a few more gasps of breath . 
She took his hand , and held it until it gently loosed its hold , and he ceased to breathe . 
She cherished the fond hope that these last words of one who had erred so miserably were a token of some blessed change which the influences of the better world might carry onward until he should have outgrown the sins and the weaknesses of his earthly career . 
Myrtle recalled his kind care of her in her illness , and paid the tribute of a sigh to his memory , -- there was nothing in a death like his to call for any aching regret . 
