Marian and Lydia having finished their daily talk , set aside their wheels with alacrity , and tying on their straw bonnets , prepared to enjoy the beauties of the evening , by rambling over the adjacent fields and meadows . 
Here Marian and Lydia , by their chearfulness and industry , enlivened the declining hours of their mother Dorcas . 
Marian and Lydia had wandered to the road , and were just crossing it with an intent to enter a small wood on the other side , when this magnificent equipage impeded their way . 
They had never before seen any thing half so grand -- they stopped involuntarily to admire it as it passed ; the wind had blown off Marian 's bonnet , her luxuriant brown hair falling in ringlets over her face and neck , served as a shade to heighten but not obscure her charms . 
Sir George caught a glimpse of her person , and in her little white jacket , simple , unadorned , she appeared to him like a wood nymph ; her form was delicate , her stature rather below the middling size . 
He alighted from his phaeton , and offering his hand to Marian , said he would assist her in crossing the road ; he seized her unreluctant hand , he gazed earnestly upon her face , and felt in a moment his heart was captivated by this rustic fascinating beauty ; the modest inobtrusive charms of Lydia were unnoticed , he called her sister by a thousand divine appellations , which , as they had never heard them before , at once excited their wonder and their fears . 
They then dropped their curtsies , and wishing him a good night , would have left him , but he stopped Marian , and attempted rudely to salute her ; she shrieked , struggled , and at length freeing herself from his hold , caught her sister 's hand , and darting across the field , they were presently out of sight . 
Sir George gazed after them for a moment , then , ascending his carriage , determined in his own mind to attempt the seduction of Marian , He made no doubt but she would again walk the same way , and resolved every night to ramble out in hopes of meeting her . 
Not very rude , said Marian , interrupting her , he only wanted to kiss me , and I ran away from him . 
I am surprised , Marian , said Dorcas , gravely , to hear you talk thus ; it becomes not a girl of your humble station to speak in such raptures of the beauty of a gentleman , or the grandeur of his equipage , much less to form wishes to be indulged by riding in it . 
You know , Marian , 't is impossible you can ever possess a splendid equipage . 
dear , said Marian , I do not think so ; mayhap the fine gentleman may be in love with me ; I am sure he called me by many pretty names . 
And how , said she , looking mournfully at Marian , how has vanity found entrance in a heart I had hoped was the seat of innocence and content . 
That 's nothing but envy , said Marian , peevishly , because he did not say any thing to you . 
They entered the cottage , and sat down to a rural supper of milk and fruit ; during the repast Marian could think nor speak of aught beside the gentleman . 
I listened to it eagerly , and like my simple Marian placed an implicit faith in all they said . 
Here Dorcas paused to give vent to her tears ; Marian wept with her ; Lydia threw her arms round her mother 's neck , and kissing off the drops as they fell upon her cheeks , vowed that no action of hers should ever increase the anguish which already weighed down her too susceptible heart . 
They then retired for the night , Lydia to the soft repose that ever attends youth and innocence ; Marian to reflect on the fine things Sir George had said , and Dorcas to weep over past afflictions . 
Marian , listen not to the voice of adulation , stifle every rising ambitious thought , be humble , be innocent , and be happy . 
Marian listened attentively to the affecting recital of her mother 's sorrow , but every syllable sunk deep into the heart of Lydia . 
said Marian . 
I know not , replied her mother , but if he he can never be any thing to you , he has us all . 
Foolish Marian , said the anxious mother , why regret the loss of such a trifle ; be virtuous , my child , you will then elevate the most humiliating station , and rise superior to those whose only boast is wealth and titles , to render them the envy of the blind misguided multitude . 
Lydia 's heart responsive echoed her mother 's sentiments -- Marian sighed and was silent . 
The moon in majestic splendor illumined the sky , and darted her silver beams through the ancient elms that shaded Dorcas 's cottage . 
The man seized the opportunity , and delivered to the lovely unsuspecting Marian a letter from Sir George Lovemore . 
Love and ambition had already taught her art , she hastily took the offered letter , and hid it in her bosom . 
The servant having completed his errand retired , and Marian found means to peruse her letter ; -- it abounded with professions of love , vows of everlasting fidelity , and encomiums on her beauty . 
She read it with rapture , and though so recently warned of the duplicity of men , believed every syllable it contained . 
In conclusion , he solicited a private interview the next morning , in the field adjoining her mother 's cottage . 
Marian paused at this request , hesitated -- read the letter again and resolved to comply . 
During supper she was thoughtful and absent , and when the usual hour of rest arrived , she retired with an anxious perturbed mind ; sleep was to her eyes , and several times she resolved to shew the letter to Lydia , and request her to accompany her -- But then Sir George had desired her to come alone , he might be offended and she might never see him again . 
Aurora had but faintly streaked the eastern skies with mingled gold and purple , when the ill-fated Marian met her lover . 
He thanked her for her , told her his whole happiness depended on her , and urged her immediate slight with him to London . 
Marian hesitated , her mother , her sister , hung heavy at her heart . 
Sir George was an adept in the art of seduction , he talked of gaiety , splendor and pleasure , swore she was born to grace the first station , declared it was a crime to bury so much beauty and sweetness in a desart . 
Marian 's reason was not convinced , but her vanity was awakened and her senses dazzled , what wonder then that her scruples were overcome by Sir George 's artful persuasions . 
She left the mansion of peace and innocence , and in a chaise which he had prepared for the purpose , hurried as fast as four horses would carry her to the feat of dissipation and folly . 
Marian dropped a tear as she took a last look at the cottage , but Sir George kissed it off , and the reflection which had caused it to start was instantly banished from her mind . 
Lydia on awakening missed her sister , and hastily rising , ran into her mother 's apartment , vexed that Marian should have been the first to bid her good morning . 
Lydia left her mother , and sought her sister in the fields and woods ; echo a thousand times repeated the name as she called her dear Marian ; at length fatigued and dispirited , she was returning home , when she met a shepherd , who early attended his sheep , that way , and demanded of him whether he had seen her sister . 
He had seen her , he saw her enter the chaise with Sir George , he saw them drive off . 
Sir , replied Lydia , I fear my poor Marian is worse than dead . 
A gentleman has found means to ensnare her innocent unsuspecting heart , and she has this morning left her only friends to trust the promises of one she never saw till three days since . 
my dear mother , she is lost to us ; that gentleman whom we met -- Enough , said Dorcas , I fully understand the extent of my misfortune ; my Marian is dishonored , plunged in infamy ; but I will not renounce her , she is my child . 
my dear Marian ! 
Peace , with the speed of a courier , now fled from the mansion of Dorcas , affliction usurped her place , and with solemn pace each night walled with the solitary Lydia over those fields an meadows where she once had cheerfully tripped with her beloved Marian . 
The female attendant who was immediately about the person of Marian , was a girl who had formerly fallen a prey to the arts of Sir George , and now only enjoyed his bounty for reducing other hapless females to the horrid level with herself . 
She was wretched in the loss of her own virtue , and like the spoiler of mankind , exulted in every opportunity of robbing others of that blessing herself could no longer enjoy . 
She treated the innocent Marian with the most profound respect , led her through a suit of superb apartments and told her ; if she could think of any thing that would add to the elegance or beauty of the furniture , she need only mention her wishes to have them complied with . 
She next displayed a variety of elegant female apparel , toys , jewels , and other things proper to catch the attention of inexperienced youth , and kindle the glowing seeds of vanity into a flame that might consume her , at that time was without a favorite , and from the prepossession he felt in his bosom towards our poor wanderer , he determined to raise her from the abject state to which she was reduced , to the honorablestation of his mistress ; he therefore dispatched his visits as quick as possible , and repaired to the place of appointment . 
Marian met him at the door of the apartment , he gave her his hand , she raised it to her lips , and attempted to speak , but words were refused , a gush of silent tears more eloquently spoke her soul 's meaning -- the Major was moved , he made her sit , down , and placing himself beside her , began to unfold the designs he had formed in her favour . 
Sir , said Marian mournfully , I had hoped you would have taken me from this life of shame , indeed I am sick of what is termed pleasure , I long to sink into peaceful obscurity , and having just sufficient to supply the wants of nature , repent my past misdeeds , and wait with patience the appointed hour of rest . 
Marian was thoughtful , eat , little , and frequently turned her head to hide the starting tears . 
Supper removed he renewed his solicitations , she sunk on her knees , and with uplifted hands entreated him to grant her relief on other terms , or suffer her to leave him , and again tempt the miseries of her hard destiny . 
He was deaf to her prayers , he attributed them to art -- he raised her from the ground , and proceeded to unwarrantable liberties -- she made a violent effort , and springing from his arms , cried , Oh ! 
At length recovering from his surprise , he observed a small shagreen case which lay on the floor , and during her struggles had dropped from Marian 's bosom . 
The first thought that struck him was the horrid crime he had so nearly perpetrated ; the next was what was become of his poor ruined child -- His continual ravings for his Marian , his dear lost daughter , and the evident incoherence of his discourse led the servants to believe he was fiezed with a sudden fit of insanity , and in that belief conveyed him home . 
The remembrance was too acute , and his senses , which were before wavering , took their flight -- but still his fancy was haunted by the image of Dorcas and Marian , and his agonies became dreadful , even to those who attended him . 
Every enquiry after the hapless Marian was fruitless , and the miserable Renfew , when a turn of his disorder restored him to reason , found that there was no hope of recovering the poor wanderer -- The picture discovered to the Earl of Landaff that Dorcas was the mother and Lydia the sister of the woman who had caused such anxious emotions in his uncle 's bosom , but how Lydia and Marian should be the daughters of Major Renfew appeared to him an inexplicable riddle . 
my beloved , will not your gentle heart break when I shall tell you I have seen our dear Marian -- I have seen her a wretched nightly wanderer -- I heard her implore charity , I saw her overpowered with anguish of heart , and relieved her not , but drove her from me , drove her again upon the merciless world , exposed to all the miseries of want ! 
Many days shall not pass e'er I hope to hear you pronounce my pardon , and clasp you to the heart of your repentant husband , From the day of Marian 's elopement pleasure had been a stranger to the heart of Dorcas , nor could all the duteous tenderness of Lydia dissipate the anxiety she felt for the fate of Marian from her maternal breast . 
Twasnight , a chearful fire illumined their little cottage , but sorrow still sat heavy on the heart of Dorcas -- the wind blew , the cold rain beat against the casement ; and where now is my poor Marian ? 
said she , sighing deeply . 
Lydia , continued she , you will receive a father 's blessing , but my poor Marian is lost for ever . 
The Major looked at the unhappy girl , and through the shade which extreme want , sickness , and even disordered reason had cast over her countenance , instantly discovered the seatures of Marian . 
Have you a child , said Marian , catching at his last words , then for pity 's sake do n't forsake her . 
Landaff assisted the servants in raising Marian , and being then but a short distance from the cottage , persuaded his uncle to ride forward , accompanied by one servant , while he followed with the other two supporting Marian between them . 
Words are too languid to describe the ensuing scene , suffice it to say , for Marian was for a moment forgot , for a moment they were all happy ; but they were awakened from this dream of bliss by the approach of Landaff . 
Marian was beginning to recover her fenses as they entered the cottage . 
Marian sunk into a chair , folded her arms round Lydia 's waist , and gazing at her for a moment , recollection and reason at once returned , she dropped her head on her bosom and cried , it is indeed my sister . 
That voice should be the voice of Marian , said she , but alas ! 
Innocence and peace are fled together , said Marian , grant me but pardon and let medie at your feet ; she sunk upon her knees , Lydia knelt beside her ; the afflicted mother wept over her , blessed and forgave her . 
Enough , said Marian , this was the only prayer I dared to offer at the throne of grace since I left my home , and became acquainted with guilt and misery ; how it has pleased heaven to direct me to you I know not . 
spare her , spare my child , merciful heaven , cried Dorcas , sinking on her knees . 
Marian ! 
Marian ! 
But tell me , continued he , who was her seducer ; who plunged my child into this abyss of misery ; teach me where to find him , that with his heart 's blood I may wash out the stain he has entailed upon the name of Renfew . '' 
A few days after the ill-fated Marian was committed to her parent earth , when Renfew , Dorcas , and Lydia removed to the seat of the Earl of Landaff , where in a short time she reaped the full reward of her filial duty and unremitting tenderness to her mother , by becoming the bride of that young nobleman . 
Major Renfew purchased the cottage where his wife and children had lived so many years , and kept it in constant repair ; in the garden he had two small temples erected , one was almost hid from the eye , by thick spreading cypress and yew trees , round whose branches twined the deadly night-shade , and baleful ivy ; within was a tomb of black marble , over which stood Humanity weeping ; on the front of the monument was the following inscription : Hither let the Daughter of Vanity repair , Look on this silent Monitor , AND REMEMBER MARIAN ! 
She was fair and sweet as the lily , innocent as the young lamb , but folly misled her , vice betrayed her , and misery closed the final awful scene , in the Twenty-Third Year of her Age . 
The other temple was built of white marble , surrounded by the most beautiful flowering shrubs and evergreens ; within was Peace and Prosperity , thowering their favors on filial piety ; above covered an Angel with a crown of gold in her hands , round which was this heavenly promise . 
`` I will go to the wedding , said she , because that woman shall not have a moment 's happiness of which it is in my power to deprive her . '' 
