` Ethel , my dear , how often have I told you of your impetuosity -- you have forgotten . ' 
` Good morning , Ethel , good morning , Flora , ' said the prim , middle-aged , daily governess , taking off her bonnet , and arranging the stiff little rolls of curl at the long , narrow looking-glass , the border of which distorted the countenance . 
whispered Ethel to herself , wriggling fearfully on the wide window-seat on which she had precipitated herself , and kicking at the bar of the table , by which manifestation she of course succeeded in deferring her hopes , by a reproof which caused her to draw herself into a rigid , melancholy attitude , a sort of penance of decorum , but a rapid motion of the eyelids , a tendency to crack the joints of the fingers , and an unquietness at the ends of her shoes , betraying the restlessness of the digits therein contained . 
Flora began , ` If you do n't want this afternoon to yourself -- ' Ethel was on her feet , and open-mouthed . 
` Yes , yes , but hear , ' cried Ethel . 
` O , we have settled that , ' said Ethel , ` we mean to make the donkey a sumpter-mule , so , if you are tired , you may ride home on her . ' 
` It is Saturday , ' said Ethel , ` we can get the boys . ' 
cried Ethel . 
Ethel had clapped after her the heavy door with its shining brass lock , before Miss Winter well knew what she was about , and the governess seemed annoyed . 
` Ethel does not consider , ' said she . 
` It is unlucky , ' began the governess , but stopped at the incursion of some new comers , nearly tumbling over each other , Ethel at the head of them . 
as the gathers of her frock gave way in the rude grasp of a twelve-years-old boy . 
Miss Winter glanced unutterable things at Margaret , and Ethel began to perceive she had done something wrong . 
` Are many of your reefs out there , Ethel ? ' 
` We shall know soon , ' said Ethel . 
` I think so , since we are so nearly collected , ' said Miss Winter ; and Ethel , seating herself on the corner of the window-seat , with one leg doubled under her , took up a Shakespeare , holding it close to her eyes , and her brother Norman , who , in age , came between her and Flora , kneeling on one knee on the window-seat , and supporting himself with one arm against the shutter , leant over her , reading it too , disregarding a tumultuous skirmish going on in that division of the family collectively termed ` the boys , ' namely , Harry , Mary , and Tom , until Tom was suddenly pushed down , and tumbled over into Ethel 's lap , thereby upsetting her and Norman together , and there was a general downfall , and a loud scream , ` The sphynx ! ' 
` Be off , out of this window , and let Ethel and me read in peace . ' 
` Here 's the place , ' said Ethel -- ` Crispin , Crispian 's day . 
Mrs. May laughed , and proceeded to advise Ethel and Norman to put away Henry V. , and find the places in their Bibles , ` or you will have the things mixed together in your heads , ' said she . 
The Gospel was that on the taking the lowest place , and when they had finished , Ethel said , ` I like the verse which explains that : `` They who now sit lowest here , When their Master shall appear , He shall bid them higher rise , And be highest in the skies . '' 
` It seemed to be only our worldly advantage that was meant before , ' said Ethel . 
Norman tarried to put his books into a neat leather case , and Ethel stood thinking . 
` It means altogether -- it is a lesson against ambition , ' said she . 
` True , ' said her mother , ` the love of eminence for its own sake . ' 
cried Ethel , ` but no one fit to speak to would do that ! ' 
exclaimed Ethel . 
` I know , ' said Ethel , bending her brow , with the fulness of her thought -- ` I mean caring to do a thing only because nobody else can do it -- wanting to be first more than wanting to do one 's best . ' 
` You are quite right , my dear Ethel , ' said her mother ; ` and I am glad you have found in the Gospel a practical lesson , that should be useful to you both . 
I had rather you did so than that you read it in Greek , though that is very nice too , ' she added , smiling , as she put her hand on a little Greek Testament , in which Ethel had been reading it , within her English Bible . 
cried Ethel , rushing head-long upstairs , twice tripping in it , before she reached the attic , where she slept , as well as Flora and Mary -- a large room in the roof , the windows gay with bird-cages and flowers , a canary singing loud enough to deafen any one but girls to whom headaches were unknown , plenty of books and treasures , and a very fine view , from the dormer-window , of the town sloping downwards , and the river winding away , with some heathy hills in the distance . 
Poking and peering about with her short-sighted eyes , Ethel lighted on a work-basket in rare disorder , pulled off her frock , threw on a shawl , and sat down cross-legged on her bed , stitching vigorously , while meantime she spouted with great emphasis an ode of Horace , which Norman having learnt , by heart , she had followed his example ; it being her great desire to be even with him in all his studies , and though eleven months younger , she had never yet fallen behind him . 
On Saturday , he showed her what were his tasks for the week , and as soon as her rent was repaired , she swung herself down-stairs in search of him for this purpose . 
She found him in the drawing-room , a pretty pleasant room -- its only fault that it was rather too low . 
Ethel found the state of affairs unfavourable to her . 
Ethel would not , for the world , that any one should guess at her classical studies -- she scarcely liked to believe that even her father knew of them , and to mention them before Mr. Ernescliffe would have been dreadful . 
So she only shoved Norman , and asked him to come . 
said she , poking her head into the book . 
She read over him a few minutes , then recoiled : ` I forgot , mamma told me not to read those stories in the morning . 
She fidgetted , till Mr. Ernescliffe asked Norman if there was a table of logarithms in the house . 
` O yes , ' she answered ; ` do n't you know , Norman ? 
He was conscious of nothing but his book ; however , she found the logarithms , and brought them to Mr. Ernescliffe , staying to look at his drawing , and asking what he was making out . 
He replied , smiling at the impossibility of her understanding , but she wrinkled her brown forehead , hooked her long nose , and spent the next hour in amateur navigation . 
Ethel and Mary made a vehement uproar to discover who could have written Margaret , and at last traced it home to Mr. Ernescliffe , who replied that Flora , without saying why , had desired him to set down his favourite name . 
Ethel 's navigation lesson was interrupted by the dinner-bell . 
The sons and daughters were divided in likeness to father and mother ; Ethel was almost an exaggeration of the Doctor 's peculiarities , especially at the formed , but unsoftened age of fifteen ; Norman had his long nose , sallow complexion , and tall figure , but was much improved by his mother 's fine blue eyes , and was a very pleasant-looking boy , though not handsome ; little Tom was a thin , white , delicate edition of his father ; and Blanche contrived to combine great likeness to him with a great deal of prettiness . 
said Ethel . 
There was a great laugh , and an entreaty to know whether this was really his address -- Ethel telling him she knew he had muttered it to himself quite audibly , for which she was rewarded by a pretended box on the ear . 
` You ca n't think how often I shall remember it , or how rejoiced I -- ' He broke off , for the noise subsided , and his speech was not intended for the public ear , so he dashed into the general conversation , and catching his own name , exclaimed , ` What 's that base proposal , Ethel ? ' 
` To be sure you may ; ' and Norman , with a hand on the back of Ethel 's chair , took a flying leap over his own , that set all the glasses ringing . 
Norman , come back in time , ' said Ethel . 
` Papa , ' said Ethel , ` will you lend me a pair of spectacles for the walk ? ' 
` And make yourself one , Ethel , ' said Flora . 
` It is very bad for you , Ethel , ' further added her mother ; ` you will make your sight much shorter if you accustom your eyes to them . ' 
` They were that pair that you never could keep on , papa , ' said Ethel -- no use at all to you . 
` Yes , in Norman 's Lexicon , ' said Ethel , ' a capital likeness of you , papa ; but I never could get him to tell me who drew it . ' 
Nor did Ethel know that that caricature had been the cause of the black eye that Harry had brought home last summer . 
Harry returned , to protest that he would not join the walk , if she chose to be seen in the spectacles , while she undauntedly continued her petition , though answered that she would attract the attacks of the quarry-men , who would take her for an attenuated owl . 
cried Ethel , ` and then you would know how tiresome it is not to see twice the length of your own nose . ' 
` Margaret ought to be in the picture herself , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel , running after him ; ` you know I am an injured individual , for mamma wo n't let me carry baby about the house , because I am so blind . ' 
I was very glad he heard what Ethel said to-day . ' 
` Ethel spoke very deeply , ' said Margaret ; ` I was a good deal struck by it -- she often comes out with such solid thoughts . ' 
The craving for rank , or wealth , or beauty , are so clearly wrong , that one does not question about them ; but I suppose , as Ethel said , the caring to be first in attainments is as bad . ' 
` Harry wo n't go because of Ethel 's spectacles , ' answered Flora ; ` and Mary and he are inseparable , so they are gone with Hector to have a shipwreck in the field . ' 
That 's not right , but -- ' ` Ethel , Norman , what are you about ? ' 
cried Ethel , flying into vehement activity ; ` only I 've lost my blue-edged handkerchief -- Flora , have you seen it ? ' 
` You 'll drive us out of patience , ' said Flora , tying the handkerchief round Ethel 's throat , and pulling out the fingers of her gloves , which of course were inside out ; ` are you ready ? ' 
There 't is -- three stitches -- go on , and I 'll come , ' said Ethel , seizing a needle , and sewing vehemently at a little pink frock . 
` Come , Norman , then ; it is the only way to make her come at all . ' 
` I shall wait for her , ' said Norman . 
Your verses will be much the best , Ethel ; I only went on a little about Mount Vesuvius and the landscape , as Alan described it the other day , and Decius taking a last look , knowing he was to die . 
Come along , ' said Ethel , crumpling her work into a bundle , and snatching up her gloves -- then , as they ran down stairs , and emerged into the street , ` it is a famous subject . ' 
` O no , no , ' said Ethel . 
` Fame is coarse and vulgar -- blinder than ever they draw Love or Fortune -- she is only a personified newspaper , trumpeting out all that is extraordinary , without minding whether it is good or bad . 
She misses the delicate and lovely -- I wished they would give us a theme to write about her . 
I should like to abuse her well . ' 
` I 'm not sure , ' said Ethel ; ` I think looking for fame is like wanting a reward at once . 
Presently Norman slackened his space , and driving his stick vehemently against a stone , exclaimed , ` It is no use talking , Ethel , it is all a fight and a race . 
The Bible says so replied Ethel ; ` but is not there the difference , that here all may win -- not only one ? 
No , no , I 'll never be beat , Ethel -- I never have been beat by any one , except by you , when you take pains , ' he added , looking exultingly at his sister , ` and I never will be . ' 
` I did it all but one question , ' said Ethel , ` but so did he , you know , and we ca n't tell whether we should have it done well enough . ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel ; ` if papa will but let you try for the Randall scholarship next year , but he says it is not good to go to Oxford so young . ' 
` Now , Mr. Ernescliffe , I should like you to say , ' cried Ethel , ` which do you think is the best , the name of it , or the thing ? ' 
Her eloquence always broke down with any auditor but her brother , or , perhaps , Margaret . 
The argument is this : Ethel wants people to do great deeds , and be utterly careless of the fame of them ; I say , that love of glory is a mighty spring . ' 
said Alan ; ` but I think , as far as I understand the question , that Ethel has the best of it . ' 
` But do you think it right , ' said Ethel , ` to care for distinction ? 
said Ethel . 
` You agree then , ' said Ethel , ` do you , Mr. Ernescliffe ? ' 
Miss Winter looked at Etheldred reprovingly , and she shrank into herself , drew apart , and indulged in a reverie . 
She had heard in books , of girls writing poetry , romance , history -- gaining fifties and hundreds . 
Could not some of the myriads of fancies floating in her mind thus be made available ? 
She would compose , publish , earn money -- some day call papa , show him her hoard , beg him to take it , and , never owning whence it came , raise the building . 
Spire and chancel -- pinnacle and buttress rose before her eyes -- and she and Norman were standing in the porch , with an orderly , religious population , blessing the unknown benefactor , who had caused the news of salvation to be heard among them . 
Whence came Ethel 's certainty that the accident concerned themselves ? 
In an agony of apprehension , though without one outward sign of it , she walked home . 
Ethel had been first , but she held back , and let Miss Winter go forward into the house . 
` There 's nurse , ' and Ethel flew up to her . 
` My poor , poor children , ' said old nurse , passionately kissing Ethel . 
Ethel could bear it no longer . 
As if she could escape , she fled up-stairs , into her room , and , falling on her knees , hid her face on her bed . 
There were heavy steps in the house , then a sound of hasty feet coming up to her . 
He groaned , but could not speak ; he rested his head against her , and gasped . 
She was terribly frightened . 
` I 'll call -- ' and she would have gone , but he held her . 
She tried to support him , but could only guide him as he sank , till he lay at full length on the floor , where she put a pillow under his head , and gave him some water . 
whispered Ethel ; but Norman only pressed his face into the pillow . 
She was so bewildered as to be more alive to the present distress of his condition , than to the vague horrors down-stairs . 
cried Ethel , startled and recalled to the sense of what was passing . 
Ethel 's understanding perceived , but her mind refused to grasp the extent of the calamity . 
There was no answer , save a convulsive squeezing of her hand . 
Fresh sounds below recalled her to speech and action . 
` Where is she ? 
What are they doing for her ? 
She -- when they lifted her up , she was -- ' ` Dead ? ' 
said Ethel , presently . 
` I saw them lift her up . ' 
` And papa -- he was stunned -- but soon he sat up , said he would go to her -- he looked at her -- felt her pulse , and then -- sank down over her ! ' 
The shuddering came again , ` His arm -- all twisted -- broken , ' and his voice sank into a faint whisper ; Ethel was obliged to sprinkle him again with water . 
said she , in a tone calm from its bewilderment . 
but he was obliged to lay his head down again ; and Ethel , scarcely less trembling , crept carefully towards the stairs , but a dread of what she might meet came over her , and she turned towards the nursery . 
Mary held up her finger as Ethel entered , and whispered , ` Hush ! 
The first true pang of grief shot through Ethel like a dart , stabbing and taking away her breath , ` Where are they ? ' 
she said ; ` how is papa ? 
They did not seem to know , and Ethel asked where to find Flora . 
` With Margaret , ' she was told , and she was thinking whether she could venture to seek her , when she herself came fast up the stairs . 
Ethel and Harry both darted out . 
Ethel ran after her sister , and pulling out drawers without knowing what she sought , begged to hear how papa and Margaret were . 
Harry had gone back to his refuge in the nursery , and Ethel returned to Norman . 
There was nothing to be done but to return to Ethel and Harry , and tell them all ; with some humiliation at being helpless , where Flora was doing so much , and to leave their father to be watched by a stranger . 
They sat together in Ethel 's room , till somewhere between eight and nine o'clock , when good old nurse , having put her younger ones to bed , came in search of them . 
Harry and Mary ate enough to satisfy her , from a weary craving feeling , and for want of employment ; Norman sat with his elbow on his knee , and a very aching head resting on his hand , glad of drink , but unable to eat ; Ethel could be persuaded to do neither , till she found old nurse would let her have no peace . 
The nurse sent them all to bed , taking the two girls to their own room , undressing them , and never leaving them until Mary was in a fair way of crying herself to sleep -- for saying her prayers had brought the tears ; while Ethel lay so wide awake that it was of no use to wait for her , and then she went to the boys , tucked them each in , as when they were little children , and saying , ` Bless your dear hearts ! ' 
Harry slept a good deal , Ethel read to herself , and tried to get Norman to look at passages which she liked , Mary kept the little ones from being troublesome , and at last took them to peep behind the school-room blinds for Richard 's coming . 
There was a simultaneous shout when , at four o'clock , they caught sight of him , and though , at Ethel 's exclamation of wonder , Mary and Tom hung their heads at having forgotten themselves , the association of gladness in seeing Richard was refreshing ; the sense of being desolate and forsaken was relieved , and they knew that now they had one to rely on and to comfort them . 
Ethel thought not , but took him to Margaret 's room , where he stood for many minutes without speaking ; then whispered to Flora that he must go to the others , she should call him if -- and went down , followed by Ethel . 
But Richard 's entrance set all at peace -- he sat down among them , and , with soft voice and arm round Blanche , as she leaned against him , made her good in a moment ; and she listened while he talked over with Norman and Ethel all they could bear to speak of . 
Ethel eagerly undertook to send to Mr. Ward , and hastened from the room , as if in a sort of terror , shrinking perhaps from what might lead to an outburst of grief . 
She longed to have seen her father , but was frightened at the chance of meeting him . 
When she had sent her message , and told her brothers what was passing , she went and lingered on the stairs and in the passage for tidings . 
said Ethel . 
` She just answered in that dreamy way when he spoke to her . 
He says he thinks it is as Mr. Ward believes , and that she will soon come to herself . 
Ethel stood by listening . 
There was silence at first , then some sounds from the baby , and her father 's voice soothing it , in his wonted caressing phrases and tones , so familiar that they seemed to break the spell , drive away her vague terrors , and restore her father . 
Her heart bounded , and a sudden impulse carried her to the bedside , at once forgetting all dread of seeing him , and chance of doing him harm . 
Dr. May looked up at Ethel , then at the infant ; ` Yes , ' he said , ` at once . ' 
There was a pause , while Flora looked reproachfully at her sister , and Ethel became conscious of her imprudence , but in a few moments Dr. May spoke again , first to the baby , and then asking , ` Is Richard here ? ' 
Ethel retreated , much alarmed at her rash measure , and when she related it , she saw that Richard and Mr. Ernescliffe both thought it had been a great hazard . 
Ethel and Norman went up arm-in-arm at bed-time . 
` I am going to ask if I may wish papa good night , ' said Ethel . 
Norman hesitated , but his cheeks blanched ; he shuddered , shook his head without speaking , ran up after Harry , and waved her back when she would have followed . 
Richard told her that she might come in , and , as she slowly advanced , she thought she had never seen anything so ineffably mournful as the affectionate look on her father 's face . 
She held his hand and ventured -- for it was with difficulty she spoke -- to hope he was not in pain . 
` Better than it was , thank you , my dear , ' he said , in a soft weak tone ; then , as she bent down to kiss his brow , ` You must take care of the little ones . ' 
` Yes , papa , ' she could hardly answer , and a large drop gathered slowly in each eye , long in coming , as if the heart ached too much for them to flow freely . 
He held her hand , as if lengthening the interview . 
Ethel 's two tears stood on her cheeks . 
Ethel went up-stairs , saddened and yet soothed . 
The calm silent sorrow , too deep for outward tokens , was so unlike her father 's usually demonstrative habits , as to impress her all the more , yet those two tears were followed by no more ; there was much strangeness and confusion in her mind in the newness of grief . 
She found poor Flora , spent with exertion , under the reaction of all she had undergone , lying on her bed , sobbing as if her heart would break , calling in gasps of irrepressible agony on mamma ! 
Ethel , terrified and distressed , timidly implored her to be comforted , but it seemed as if she were not even heard ; she would have fetched some one , but whom ? 
Ethel stood helpless and despairing , and Flora sobbed on , so that Mary awakened to burst out in a loud frightened fit of crying ; but in a few moments a step was at the door , a knock , and Richard asked , ` Is anything the matter ? ' 
Mary was hushed in a moment , and Flora 's exhausted weeping was gradually soothed , when she was able to recollect that she was keeping him from her father ; with kind good nights , he left Ethel to read to her till she could sleep . 
Long did Ethel read , after both her sisters were slumbering soundly ; she went on in a sort of dreamy grief , almost devoid of pain , as if all this was too terrible to be true ; and she had imagined herself into a story , which would give place at dawn to her ordinary life . 
At last she went to bed , and slept till wakened by the return of Flora , who had crept down in her dressing-grown to see how matters were going . 
Norman started up , and walked hastily out of the room , but his hand shook so , that he could hardly open the door ; and Ethel , seeing how it was with him , followed him quickly , as he dashed , at full speed , up the stairs . 
` Dear Norman , ' she said , ` there 's nothing to mind . 
` I see it wo n't do , ' said Ethel -- ` do n't try -- you will be better by-and-by , and he has not asked for you in particular . ' 
The first cure was the being forced to clear out of Mr. Ward 's way , which he could not effect without being seen ; and Ethel , though she knew that he would be annoyed , was not sorry to be obliged to remain , and tell what was the matter with him . 
And armed with the cordial he had prepared , Ethel hunted up her brother , and persuaded him , after scolding her a little , to swallow it , and take a turn in the garden ; after which he made a more successful attempt at visiting his father . 
To see her unconscious of their presence was too strange and sad , and all were silent , till , as they left the room , Ethel looked out at Blanche and Aubrey in the garden . 
` They will never remember her ! 
Richard would fain have moralized and comforted , but she felt as if she knew it all before , and heard with languid attention . 
She had rather read than talk , and he sat down to write letters . 
Ethel wished it very much , and thought it nonsense to care whether people looked at her ; and in spite of Miss Winter 's seeming shocked at her proposing it , had a great mind to persist . 
She would even have appealed to her papa , if Flora had not stopped her , exclaiming , ` Really , Ethel , I think there never was a person so entirely without consideration as you are . ' 
Much abashed , Ethel humbly promised that if she might go into papa 's room , she would not say one word about the Christening , unless he should begin , and , to her great satisfaction , he presently asked her to read the service to him . 
said Ethel , when Flora took her again , ` might we take her to her godmother to see if she would notice her ? ' 
Flora pressed the babe in her arms , Ethel 's two reluctant tears stood on her cheeks , Mary exclaimed , ` I 'll try not to be naughty ; ' and Blanche climbed up to kiss him , saying , ` I will be always good , papa . ' 
` Daisy -- papa 's Daisy -- your vows are made , ' whispered Ethel , gaining sole possession of the babe for a minute . 
But home they must go , and , before going up-stairs , as Flora and Etheldred stood a moment or two with Norman , Ethel said in a tone of resolution , and of some cheerfulness , ` Well , we have to begin afresh . ' 
` And now Margaret is getting better , she will be our stay , ' said Ethel . 
` I must go to her , ' and Flora went up-stairs . 
` I wish I could be as useful as Flora , ' said Ethel , ` but I mean to try , and if I can but keep out of mischief , it will be something . ' 
Ethel hesitated a little , and presently answered , ` I do n't think it can be right to lament for our own sakes so much , is it ? ' 
` We ought to think of her gain . 
Well , I am glad , for no more can I. I ca n't think of her liking for papa and baby and all of us to be left to ourselves . 
But that 's not right of me , and of course it all comes right where she is ; so I always put that out of my head , and think what is to come next in doing , and pleasing papa , and learning . ' 
` I wish -- ' said Ethel , disappointed , but cheering up the next minute . 
Poor Ethel 's feelings were not such as to deserve the imputation of levity , when this thought came over her ; but her buoyant mind , always seeking for consolation , recurred to Margaret 's improvement , and she fixed her hopes on her . 
Again in returning , he slipped out of the party , and was at home the first , and when this recurred in the afternoon , Ethel began to understand his motive . 
The High-street led past the spot where the accident had taken place , though neither she nor any of the others knew exactly where it was , except Norman , on whose mind the scene was branded indelibly ; she guessed that it was to avoid it that he went along what was called Randall 's Alley , his usual short cut to school . 
Ethel was ashamed of herself when she saw him taking thought for them , tying Blanche 's bonnet , putting Aubrey 's gloves on , teaching them to put away their Sunday toys , as if he meant them to be as neat and precise as himself . 
was heard behind , and there was no certainty that any thanks reached the poor little heroine , who was evidently borne off summarily to the nursery , while Ethel gave way to a paroxysm of suppressed laughter , joined in , more or less , by all the rest ; and thus Alan , promising faithfully to preserve the precious token , left Dr. May 's door , not in so much outward sorrow as he had expected . 
Ethel was very angry , and was only prevented from vindicating herself , by remembering there was no peace-maker now , and that she had resolved only to think of Miss Winter 's late kindness , and bear with her tiresome ways . 
Etheldred thought herself too sorrowful to be liable to her usual faults , which would seem so much worse now ; but she found herself more irritable than usual , and doubly heedless , because her mind was pre-occupied . 
She hated herself , and suffered more from sorrow than even at the first moment , for now she felt what it was to have no one to tame her , no eye over her ; she found herself going à tort et à travers all the morning , and with no one to set her right . 
The Doctor was with Margaret , and though Richard tried to say something cheerful , as his brothers entered , there was no response , and they sat down on the opposite sides of the fire , forlorn and silent , till Richard who was printing some letters on card-board to supply the gaps in Aubrey 's ivory Alphabet , called Harry to help him ; but Ethel , as she sat at work , could only look at Norman , and wish she could devise anything likely to gratify him . 
Flora took up her work , and began to consult with Richard , while Ethel moved to Norman 's side , and kneeling so as to lean against his shoulder , as he sat on a low cushion , they read their mother 's last letter , by the fire-light , with indescribable feelings , as they went through the subjects that had lately occupied them , related by her who would never be among them again . 
`` Rather she than I , '' says Harry , but notice is notice to the white Mayflower , and there is my anxiety -- I am afraid it is not wholesome to be too engaging ever to get a rebuff . 
The three whom you left , when people used to waste pity on me for their being all babies together , now look as if any pair of them were twins , for Norman is the tallest , almost outgrowing his strength , and Ethel 's sharp face , so like her papa 's , makes her look older than Flora . 
Norman and Ethel do indeed take after their papa , more than any of the others , and are much alike . 
There is the same brilliant cleverness , the same strong feeling , not easy of demonstration , though impetuous in action ; but poor Ethel 's old foibles , her harum-scarum nature , quick temper , uncouth manners , and heedlessness of all but one absorbing object , have kept her back , and caused her much discomfort ; yet I sometimes think these manifest defects have occasioned a discipline that is the best thing for the character in the end . 
They are faults that show themselves , and which one can tell how to deal with , and I have full confidence that she has the principle within her that will conquer them . ' 
` If -- ' mournfully sighed Ethel ; but her brother pointed on further . 
` My great hope is her entire indifference to praise -- not approval , but praise . 
If she has not come up to her own standard , she works on , not always with good temper , but perseveringly , and entirely , unheeding of commendation till she has satisfied herself , only thinking it stupid not to see the faults . 
It is this independence of praise that I want to see in her brother and sister . 
` So there you are up for the day -- really you look very comfortable , ' said Ethel , coming into the room where Margaret lay on her bed , half raised by pillows , supported by a wooden frame . 
` I think he is doing something else for you , ' said Ethel ; ` I heard him carpentering at six o'clock this morning , but I suppose it is to be a secret . ' 
` And do n't you admire her night-cap ? ' 
said Ethel , peering closer . 
` O , I see -- so she has a fine day night-cap . 
` I 'm very glad you could , ' said Ethel , gravely ; ` but do you know ? 
cried Ethel . 
` No -- not disconsolate , ' said Ethel ; ` but the white puffiness -- and the hemming -- and the glass ! ' 
` Poor Ethel ca n't get over it , ' said Margaret . 
` But , Ethel , do you think there is nothing disconsolate in untidiness ? ' 
And , Ethel , ' she added , drawing her down close over her , ` I did not think the trouble wasted , if seeing me look fresher cheered up dear papa a moment . ' 
` I spoke to papa about nurse 's proposal , ' said Margaret presently to Flora , ` and he quite agrees to it . 
` Do you remember -- ` said Ethel , there stopping . 
There -- give me my work-basket , please , Ethel ; I mean to make some more white puffs . ' 
` What 's the matter now , Ethel ? ' 
` I was only thinking it was as if she was settling herself to lie in bed for a very long time , ' said Ethel . 
` I hope not , said Richard ; ` but I do n't see why she should not be as comfortable as she can , while she is there . ' 
` I am sure I hope you will never be ill , Ethel , ' said Flora . 
` She will know how to be grateful when she is , ' said Margaret . 
` I say , Richard , ' exclaimed Ethel , ` this is hospital-meeting day , so you wo n't be wanted to drive papa . 
So it was determined that Richard and Ethel should walk together to Cocksmoor . 
Richard was sometimes seriously annoyed by Ethel 's heedlessness , and did not always understand her sublimities , but he had a great deal of admiration for one who partook so much of his father 's nature ; and Ethel had a due respect for her eldest brother , gratitude and strong affection for many kindnesses , a reverence for his sterling goodness , and his exemption from her own besetting failings , only a little damped by compassionate wonder at his deficiency in talent , and by her vexation at not being always comprehended . 
Ethel was anxious to hear what her brother thought of papa 's spirits , and whether he talked in their drives . 
said Ethel . 
He ca n't leave off his old self , of course , but ' -- Ethel stopped short . 
` That she is . 
She thinks of him all day long , and I do n't think either of them is ever so happy as in the evening , when he sits with her . 
They talk about mamma then ' -- It was just what Richard could not do , and he made some observation to change the subject , but Ethel returned to it , so far as to beg to know how the arm was going on , for she did not like to say any thing about it to papa . 
` Ah , ' said Ethel , ` there 's a line -- here -- round his eyes , that there never used to be , and when it deepens , I am sure he is in pain , or has been kept awake . ' 
` You are very odd , Ethel ; how do you see things in people 's faces , when you miss so much at just the same distance ? 
` I look after what I care about , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
Richard shook his head , not quite satisfied , but not sure enough that he entered into her meaning to question it . 
` I wonder you do n't wear spectacles , ' was the result of his meditation , and it made her laugh by being so inapposite to her own reflections ; but the laugh ended in a melancholy look . 
` Dear mamma did not like me to use them , ' she said , in a low voice . 
The twins were grown and improved , and Ethel supposed they would be brought to Church on the next Christening Sunday , but their mother looked helpless and hopeless about getting them so far , and how was she to get gossips ? 
Ethel began to grow very indignant , but she was always shy of finding fault with poor people to their faces when she would not have done so to persons in her own station , and so she was silent , while Richard hoped they would be able to manage , and said it would be better not to wait another month for still worse weather and shorter days . 
` I am Dr. May 's son , ' said Richard ; while Ethel , startled , clung to his arm , in dread of some rudeness . 
His grandmother knew he was the age of her black bonnet , and as he looked about fifteen , Ethel honoured him and the bonnet accordingly , while Richard said he must be very glad to be able to maintain them all , at his age , and , promising to try to bring his father that way , since prescribing at second hand for such curious symptoms was more than could be expected , he took his leave . 
` It is miserable , ' said Ethel ; and all her thoughts during her last walk thither began to rush over her again , not effaced , but rather burnt in , by all that had subsequently happened . 
She had said it should be her aim and effort to make Cocksmoor a Christian place . 
Such a resolve must not pass away lightly ; she knew it must be acted on , but how ? 
What would her present means -- one sovereign -- effect ? 
Her fancies , rich and rare , had nearly been forgotten of late , but she might make them of use in time -- in time , and here were hives of children growing up in heathenism . 
Suddenly an idea struck her -- Richard , when at home , was a very diligent teacher in the Sunday-school at Stoneborough , though it was a thankless task , and he was the only gentleman so engaged , except the two Clergymen -- the other male teachers being a formal , grave , little baker , and one or two monitors . 
` Richard , ' said Ethel , ` I 'll tell you what . 
He was so confounded by the suddenness of the project , that he did not answer , till she had time for several exclamations and ` Well , Richards ! ' 
` The evenings are horrid now , especially Sundays , ' said Ethel . 
` Papa is always with Margaret , ' said Ethel . 
` I hate it , ' exclaimed Ethel ; then seeing Richard shocked , and finding she had spoken more vehemently than she intended -- ` It is not as bad for you among the boys , but while that committee goes on , it is not the least use to try to teach the girls right . 
Ethel was slightly taken aback , but only said , ` Papa would be very angry if he knew it . ' 
` I thought it would only tease him , ' said Ethel , ` and that he might call it a petty female squabble ; and when Margaret is well , it will come right , if Fanny Anderson has not spoilt the girls in the meantime . 
` Hush , hush , Ethel , what 's the use of thinking such things ? ' 
A silence , -- then she exclaimed , ` But , indeed , Richard , you do n't fancy that I want to teach at Cocksmoor , because it is disagreeable at Stoneborough ? ' 
The rendering of full justice conveyed in his tone , so opened Ethel 's heart , that she went on eagerly : -- ` The history of it is this . 
` I do n't see how , ' was the answer , and there was a fragment of a smile on Richard 's face , as if it struck him as a wild scheme , that Ethel should undertake , single handed , to evangelize Cocksmoor . 
` My pins always come out , ' said Ethel , disconsolately , crumpling the black folds into one hand , while she hunted for a pin with the other . 
Ethel laughed . 
As he took Richard 's arm he gave the long heavy sigh that always fell so painfully on Ethel 's ear . 
thought she , ` my work must also be to do all I can to comfort him . ' 
Her reflections were broken off . 
Dr. May exclaimed , ` Ethel , do n't make such a figure of yourself . 
Poor Ethel step on before with mud-encrusted heels , and her father speaking sharply in the weariness and soreness of his heart ; her draggle-tailed petticoats weighing down at once her missionary projects at Cocksmoor , and her tender visions of comforting her widowed father ; her heart was full to overflowing , and where was the mother to hear her troubles ? 
Ethel sat submissively down on the lowest step , and pulled off her boots . 
As she did so , her father and brother came in -- the former desiring Richard to come with him to the study , and write a note for him . 
She hoped that thus she might have Margaret to herself , and hurried into her room . 
` Well , Ethel , have you had a pleasant walk ? ' 
` Ethel , dear , what is the matter ? 
` Darling Ethel , dear Ethel , I wish I could comfort you . 
Dear Ethel , what has gone wrong ? ' 
` Every thing , ' said Ethel . 
` No -- I 'm too dirty to come on your white bed ; I forgot , you wo n't like it , ' added she , in an injured tone . 
` It was figurative cold water , ' said Ethel , smiling for a moment . 
` But what was the scheme , Ethel ? ' 
` Cocksmoor , ' said Ethel , proceeding to unfold it . 
` I do n't know , ' said Ethel , ` only he thought it would not do . 
` I know the feeling of it , Ethel dear ; but you know if he did see that some of your plans might not answer , it is no reason you should not try to do something at once . 
Ethel proceeded to tell the history . 
` Yes , ' said Ethel ; ` but those are only little isolated individual things ! ' 
said Ethel , wistfully . 
` Ethel , dear , I do n't think dear mamma would say we ought to make vows , except what the Church decrees for us . 
` I do n't know , Ethel ; I think great things ca n't be good unless they stand on a sure foundation of little ones . ' 
Mary , will you get Ethel 's dressing things ? 
She has come home wet-footed and cold , and has been warming herself by my fire . ' 
Mary was happy to help , and Ethel was dressed and cheered by the time . 
Margaret could think : ` Dear , dear Ethel , how noble and high she is ! 
It is what people call a difficult , dangerous age , and the grander she is , the greater danger of not managing her rightly . 
` O , Ethel , good morning , dear ! 
said Ethel , as the child was fretting a little . 
` Yes , thank you , she has been very good , but she was tired of lying here , and I ca n't move her about , ' said Margaret . 
` O Margaret , I have such a plan , ' said Ethel , as she walked about with little Gertrude ; but Tom interrupted . 
` Not long -- it set me dreaming though , and a very romantic dream it was , worthy of Ethel herself . ' 
Ethel longed to hear his dream , but thought he would not like to go on ; however , he did presently . 
` That is why you like to call us your Daisy Chain , ' said Ethel . 
` For he told me his dreams , talked of eating and drinking , ' leaving Margaret with her eyes full of tears , and Ethel vehemently caressing the baby . 
said Ethel . 
` You do n't think it ominous , ' said Ethel , with a slight tremulous voice . 
said Ethel , earnestly . 
An interruption occurred , and Ethel had to go down to breakfast with a mind floating between romance , sorrow , and high aspirations , very unlike the actual world she had to live in . 
First , there was a sick man walking into the study , and her father , laying down his letters , saying , ` I must despatch him before prayers , I suppose . 
Ethel tried to read ; the children lingered about ; it was a trial of temper to all but Tom , who obtained Richard 's attention to his lessons . 
If mamma had been there , she would have had prayers ; but now no one had authority enough , though they did at last even finish breakfast . 
It was French day , always a trial to Ethel . 
M. Ballompré , the master , knew what was good and bad French , but could not render a reason , and Ethel , being versed in the principles of grammar , from her Latin studies , chose to know the why and wherefore of his corrections -- she did not like to see her pages defaced , and have no security against future errors ; while he thought her a troublesome pupil , and was put out by her questions . 
They wrangled , Miss Winter was displeased , and Ethel felt injured . 
Mary 's inability to catch the pronunciation , and her hopeless dull look when she found that coeur must not be pronounced cour , nor cur , but something between , to which her rosy English lips could never come -- all this did not tease M. Ballompré , for he was used to it . 
His mark for Ethel 's lesson was ` de l' humeur . ' 
` I ca n't tell how a language is to be learnt without knowing the reasons of one 's mistakes , ' said Ethel . 
Now , Mary , call Blanche , and you and Ethel take your arithmetic . ' 
Ethel 's mind was in too irritated and tumultuous a state for her to derive her usual solace from Cube Root . 
Her sum was wrong , and she wanted to work it right , but Miss Winter , who had little liking for the higher branches of arithmetic , said she had spent time enough over it , and summoned her to an examination such as the governess was very fond of and often practised . 
Ethel thought it useless , and was teased by it ; and though her answers were chiefly correct , they were given in an irritated tone . 
When this was over , Ethel had to fetch her mending-basket , and Mary her book of selections ; the piece for to-day 's lessons was the quarrel of Brutus and Cassius ; and Mary 's dull droning tone was a trial to her ears ; she presently exclaimed , ` O Mary , do n't murder it ! ' 
` I 've heard Papa say it , ' said Ethel , only wanting to silence Miss Winter . 
In a cooler moment , she would not have used the argument . 
Ethel made a fretful contortion , and obeyed . 
So it went on all the morning , Ethel 's eagerness checked by Miss Winter 's dry manner , producing pettishness , till Ethel , in a state between self-reproach and a sense of injustice , went up to prepare for dinner , and to visit Margaret on the way . 
as Ethel did not show the lively interest that she expected . 
I was cross I know , but she and M. Ballompré made me so ; ' and Ethel was in the midst of the narration of her grievances , when Norman came in . 
said Ethel . 
` Ethel has been poking the fire , ' she said , as if no more was needed to account for their insecurity . 
Flora had been in such close attendance upon Margaret , that she needed some cheerful walks , and though she had some doubts how affairs at home would go on without her , she was overruled , and sent on a long expedition with Miss Winter and Mary , while Ethel remained with Margaret . 
cried Ethel , ` that 's your capital management , Flora Nurse thinks she has done it all herself . 
This arranged , and the walking party set forth , Ethel sat down by her sister 's bed , and began to assist in unpicking the merino , telling Margaret how much obliged she was to her for thinking of it , and how grieved at having been so ungrateful in the morning . 
` O Margaret , I did not mean to worry you , ' said Ethel , sorry to see her look uneasy . 
` I like you to tell me every thing , dear Ethel ; but I do n't see clearly the best course . 
` Of course , ' said Ethel , shocked at her murmurs having even suggested the possibility of a change , and having , as well as all the others , a great respect and affection for her governess . 
` We could not get on without her , even if I were well , ' continued Margaret ; ` and dear mamma had such perfect trust in her , and we all know and love her so well -- it would make us put up with a great deal . ' 
` It is all my own fault , ' said Ethel , only anxious to make amends to Miss Winter . 
But for you -- ' ` It is my own fault , ' repeated Ethel . 
` I did not know that was the reason , ' said Ethel , overpowered by the recollection of the happy morning 's work she had often done in that very room , when her mother had not been equal to the bustle of the whole school-room . 
said Margaret , ` but now , my poor Ethel , I do n't think it would be right by you or by Miss Winter , to take you out of the school-room . 
I think it would grieve her . ' 
` Especially after all her kind nursing of me , and even , with more reason , it would not be becoming in us to make changes . 
No , do n't make me your mistress , Ethel dear -- let me be your sister and play-fellow still , as well as I can . ' 
` And will you try to bear with her , and remember it is right in the main , though it is troublesome ? ' 
The nursery was deserted -- all were out , and Ethel came back in trepidation at the notion of having to do it herself , though she knew it was only to put one arm to support her sister , while , with the other , she removed the pillows ; but Ethel was conscious of her own awkwardness and want of observation , nor had Margaret entire trust in her . 
Still she was too much fatigued to wait , so Ethel was obliged to do her best . 
She was careful and frightened , and therefore slow and unsteady . 
She trusted that all was right , and Margaret tried to believe so , though still uneasy . 
Ethel began to read to her , and Dr. May came home . 
She looked up smiling , and asked where he had been , but it was vain to try to keep him from reading her face . 
He saw in an instant that something was amiss , and drew from her a confession that her back was aching a little . 
He knew she might have said a great deal -- she was not in a comfortable position -- she must be moved . 
She shook her head -- she had rather wait -- there was a dread of being again lifted by Ethel , that she could not entirely hide . 
Ethel was distressed , Dr. May was angry , and , no wonder , when he saw Margaret suffer , felt his own inability to help , missed her who had been wont to take all care from his hands , and was vexed to see a tall strong girl of fifteen , with the full use of both arms , and plenty of sense , incapable of giving any assistance , and only doing harm by trying . 
` Ethel will give no attention to anything but her books ! 
She cares for nothing else . ' 
Ethel could little brook injustice , and much as she was grieving , she exclaimed , ` Papa , papa , I do care -- now do n't I , Margaret ? 
If you had taken the most moderate care -- ' ` I believe Ethel took rather too much care , ' said Margaret , much more harrassed by the scolding than by the pain . 
But he was not only grieved for the present , but anxious for the future ; and , though he knew it was bad for Margaret to manifest his displeasure , he could not restrain it , and continued to blame Ethel with enough of injustice to set her on vindication , whereupon he silenced her , by telling her she was making it worse by self-justification when Margaret ought to be quiet . 
Nothing could be done but keep her quiet , and Ethel went away to be miserable ; Flora tried to comfort her by saying it was unfortunate , but no doubt there was a knack , and every one could not manage those things ; Margaret was easier now , and as to Papa 's anger , he did not always mean all he said . 
` My poor Ethel , ' she said , holding her close , ` I am sorry I have made such a fuss . ' 
Ethel smiled and sighed , and Margaret whispered , ` Do n't grieve about me , but put your clever head to rule your hands , and you will do for home and Cocksmoor too . 
` I 've vexed papa , ' sighed Ethel -- and just then he came into the room . 
` Papa , ' said Margaret , ` here 's poor Ethel , not half recovered from her troubles . ' 
` I was very stupid , ' said Ethel . 
said her papa , ` she is worse off than I am . 
If I have but one hand left , she has two left-hands . ' 
` Yes , you must , Ethel . 
I am sorry , my dear , but you must bear with me , for I never learnt her ways with you when I might . 
What could Ethel do but hang round his neck and cry , till he said , but tenderly , that they had given Margaret quite disturbance enough to-day , and sent her to bed , vowing to watch each little action , lest she should again give pain to such a father and sister . 
In reply to Ethel 's inquiry what he was going to do that morning , he gave a yawn and stretch , and said , dejectedly , that he had got some Euripides to look over , and some verses to finish . 
` I promised to go and read to Margaret , while Flora does her music , ' said Ethel ; ` I shall come after that and do my Latin and Greek with you . ' 
` It 's enough to startle any one to be waked up with such a noise , ' said Ethel . 
` Talking in his sleep ; why , just now , you said he did not sleep , ' said Ethel . 
In the meantime , Norman had disconsolately returned to his Euripides , and Ethel , who wanted to stay with him and look out his words , was ordered out by Miss Winter , because she had spent all yesterday in-doors . 
Miss Winter was going to stay with Margaret , and Ethel and Flora coaxed Norman to come with them , ` just one mile on the turnpike road and back again ; he would be much fresher for his Greek afterwards . ' 
Flora gathered some hoary clematis , and red berries , and sought in the hedge-sides for some crimson fairy baths to carry home ; and , at the sight of the amusement Margaret derived from the placing the beauteous little Pezizas in a saucer of damp green moss , so as to hide the brown sticks on which they grew , Ethel took shame to herself for want of perception of little attentions . 
When she told Norman so , he answered , ` There 's no one who does see what is the right thing . 
It was not disorder , and Ethel could not see what he meant . 
said she . 
said Ethel . 
` Never mind , ' again said Norman , but he put his arm round her . 
` Only three weeks to the holidays , ' said Ethel , trying to be cheerful ; but his assent was depressing , and she began to fear that Christmas would only make them more sad . 
Mary did not keep Tom 's secret so inviolably , but that , while they were dressing for tea , she revealed to Ethel where Harry was gone . 
Flora and Ethel , who were the first in the drawing-room , had a consultation . 
` He never did so , ' sighed Ethel , ` things never went wrong then . ' 
` Papa would not be angry with him if we told him it was a secret , ' said Ethel ; ` I wish Harry would come in . 
The sisters looked at each other , and Ethel , after an interval , explained their doubts about Harry . 
` It will never do to have him going out with those boys continually , ' said Ethel -- ` Harvey Anderson close by all the holidays ! ' 
` No , ' said Ethel , decidedly , ` I am glad you were there , Ritchie ; I never should have thought of one time being better than another . ' 
` Just like Ethel ! ' 
` I ca n't , ' said Ethel , in a desponding way . 
` Then you must have both sorts , ' said Ethel , ` for you can do things nicely , and yet you learn very fast . ' 
` Take care , Ethel , you are singeing your frock ! 
I do believe that if Ethel would think , no one would do things so well . 
Do n't you remember the beautiful perspective drawing she made of this room , for me to take to Oxford ? 
That was very difficult , and wanted a great deal of neatness and accuracy , so why should she not be neat and accurate in other things ? 
And I know you can read faces , Ethel -- why do n't you look there before you speak ? ' 
before instead of after , when I only see I have said something mal-à-propos , said Ethel . 
` Flora despairs of me , ' said Ethel . 
` Well , then , see if you ca n't learn to make tea ; and , by-the-by , Ethel , which is the next Christening Sunday ? ' 
said Ethel , with a concluding sigh , ` it makes one hotter than double equations ! ' 
She thought Richard would never succeed in making a notable or elegant woman of Ethel , and it was best that the two sisters should take different lines . 
Flora knew that , though clever and with more accomplishments , she could not surpass Ethel in intellectual attainments , but she was certainly far more valuable in the house , and had been proved to have just the qualities in which her sister was most deficient . 
She did not relish hearing that Ethel wanted nothing but attention to be more than her equal , and she thought Richard mistaken . 
The next day Norman told Ethel that he had got on very well with the verses , and finished them off late at night . 
He showed them to her before taking them to school on Monday morning , and Ethel thought they were the best he had ever written . 
There was too much spirit and poetical beauty , for a mere school-boy task , and she begged for the foul copy , to show it to her father . 
` As it says here , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel scanned . 
` I see nothing wrong , ' she said , ` but it seems a shame to begin scanning Undine 's verses , they are too pretty . 
` You are sure they are right , Ethel ? 
Ethel thought those verses ought to make a sensation , but all that came of them was a Quam optimè , and when she asked Norman if no special notice had been taken of them , he said , in his languid way , ` No ; only Dr. Hoxton said they were better than usual . ' 
Ethel did not even have the satisfaction of hearing that Mr. Wilmot , happening to meet Dr. May , said to him , ` Your boy has more of a poet in him than any that has come in my way . 
Richard laid before him the sheet of note paper on which this portion of the letter was written , and left him alone with it , while he set out on the promised walk with Ethel . 
` No , no , Sir ; I 've done with the Doctor for this while , ' said the old woman , to Ethel 's great amusement . 
` Never mind that , ' said Ethel , a little shyly , ` I came -- where are your grandchildren ? ' 
` I wanted to know if these would fit them , ' said Ethel , beginning to undo her basket . 
all which threats were bawled out in such a good-natured , natured , triumphant voice , and with such a delighted air , that Richard and Ethel could not help laughing . 
After a few moments , Polly and Jenny made their appearance , extremely rough and ragged , but compelled by their grandmother to duck down , by way of courtesies , and , with finger in mouth , they stood , too shy to show their delight , as the garments were unfolded ; Granny talking so fast that Ethel would never have brought in the stipulation , that the frocks should be worn to school and Church , if Richard , in his mild , but steady way , had not brought the old woman to listen to it . 
Ethel promised to be there to introduce them to the chief lady , the president of the Committee , Mrs. Ledwich , and , with a profusion of thanks , they took leave . 
Ethel was so much diverted and pleased as to be convinced she would ; Richard was a little doubtful as to her power over the wild girls . 
said Ethel -- ` there will be no good to be done if it depends on her . ' 
Richard made no answer , and Ethel presently felt remorseful for her harsh speech about a poor ignorant woman , overwhelmed with poverty , children , and weak health . 
cried Ethel , eagerly ; and the black peaty pond she was looking at , seemed to sparkle with sunlight . 
` Yes , to be sure ; ' she said , with some indignation . 
Ethel was glad she had repeated this , for there was a deepening colour and smiling glow of pleasure on her brother 's face , such as she had seldom seen on his delicate , but somewhat impassive features . 
` This one thing , Ethel , I must stipulate . 
` Stop , Ethel , do n't you see , it ca n't be done for nothing ? 
Ethel looked wild with impatience , but could not gainsay these scruples , otherwise than by declaring they ought not to weigh against the good of Cocksmoor . 
` No , ' said Ethel , sorrowfully ; ` but you do n't mean to give it up . ' 
` You are always in extremes , Ethel . 
She fidgetted and gave a long sigh . 
` And I know what she will say , ' said Ethel . 
` O I am so glad , ' and she jumped over three puddles in succession . 
` And , Ethel , you must learn to keep your frock out of the dirt . ' 
When Ethel came home , burning with the tidings of the newly-excited hopes for Cocksmoor , they were at once stopped by Margaret eagerly saying , ` Is Richard come in ? 
said Ethel . 
He said his fees had come to such an accumulation , that he must see about sending them to the Bank ; and then he told me of the delight of throwing his first fee into dear mamma 's lap , when they were just married , and his old uncle had given up to him , and how he had brought them to her ever since ; he said she had spoiled him , by taking all trouble off his hands . 
` Oh , Ritchie , ' said Ethel , ` what can expense signify , when all that has been kicking about loose in an open drawer ? 
` Yes , Richard is right , ' said Ethel , mournfully ; ` it will not do to press him about our concerns ; but do you think him worse to-day ? ' 
and , without perception of fit times and seasons , Ethel would have told her story , but Margaret , too anxious to attend to her , said , ` Hark ! 
Thank you , my dear , ' as Ethel fetched his slippers , and placed a stool for his feet , feeling somewhat ashamed of thinking it an achievement to have , unbidden , performed a small act of attention which would have come naturally from any of the others . 
That Margaret could not be made to listen this evening was plain , and all that Ethel could do , was to search for some books on schools . 
In seeking for them , she displayed such confusion in the chiffoniere , that Flora exclaimed , ` Oh , Ethel , how could you leave it so ? ' 
I 'll set it to rights , ' said Ethel , gulping down her dislike to being reproved by Flora , with the thought that mamma would have said the same . 
` No , no , Flora ; ' and Richard , in a low voice , gave Ethel some advice , which she received , seated on the floor , in a mood between temper and despair . 
` He is going to teach her to do it on the principles of gravitation , ' said Flora . 
Richard did not do it himself , but , by his means Ethel , without being in the least irritated , gave the chiffoniere a thorough dusting and setting-to-rights , sorting magazines , burning old catalogues , and finding her own long-lost ` Undine , ' at which she was so delighted , that she would have forgotten all ; in proceeding to read it , curled up on the floor amongst the heaps of pamphlets , if another gentle hint from Richard had not made her finish her task so well , as to make Flora declare it was a pleasure to look in , and Harry pronounce it to be all neat and ship-shape . 
There was no speaking to Margaret the next morning -- it was French day -- and Ethel had made strong resolutions to behave better ; and whether there were fewer idioms , or that she was trying to understand , instead of carping at the master 's explanations , they came to no battle ; Flora led the conversation , and she sustained her part with credit , and gained an excellent mark . 
I would not let M. Ballompré blunder upon any of the subjects Ethel feels too deeply to talk of in good French , and really Ethel has a great talent for languages . 
How fast she gets on with Italian ! ' 
` That she does , ' said Margaret . 
` I think it would be a relief to Ethel to escape from Miss Winter 's beloved Friday questions . ' 
` She only kept Ethel in her own hands , and if you would be so kind as to change sometimes and sit in the school-room , we could spare Ethel , without hurting Miss Winter 's feelings . ' 
` Well , I 'll call Ethel , if you like , but I shall go and practise in the drawing-room . 
Flora went away , evidently annoyed , and Margaret 's conjectures on the cause of it , were cut short , by Ethel running in with a slate in one hand , and two books in the other , the rest having all tumbled down on the stairs . 
It was not till all were done , that Ethel felt free to exclaim , ` Now for what I have been longing to tell you -- Richard is going to -- ' But the fates were unpropitious . 
Aubrey trotted in , expecting to be amused ; next came Norman , and Ethel gave up in despair ; and , after having affronted Flora in the morning , Margaret was afraid of renewing the offence , by attempting to secure Ethel as her companion for the afternoon ; so not till after the walk , could Margaret contrive to claim the promised communication , telling Ethel to come and settle herself cosily by her . 
` I should have been very glad of you last evening , ' said she , ` for papa went to sleep , and my book was out of reach . ' 
` It must be like the waiting in the dark between the slides of a magic lantern , ' said Ethel ; ` I never like to be quiet . 
said Ethel . 
` I am happy , sitting on her bed here with you . 
You are a little of her , besides being my own dear Peg-top ! 
` O , it is best , ' said Ethel . 
` You must prepare for disappointments , dear Ethel . ' 
` So am I. Do you know , mamma and I were one day talking over those kind of things , and she said she had always regretted that she had so many duties at home , that she could not attend as much to the poor as she would like ; but she hoped now we girls were growing up , we should be able to do more . 
` Did she ? ' 
was all Ethel said , but she was deeply gratified . 
` I only wish we could begin , ' said Ethel , ` but Richard is so slow ! 
` Perhaps , ' said Ethel ; ` but I wish it was you . 
Do n't sigh , dear Ethel -- perhaps he may soon speak , and , if not , you can be preparing in a quiet way all the time . 
I 've been thinking about it these six weeks , ' said Ethel . 
` It would be hollow , show-goodness , ' said Ethel . 
` If he would only read our books , and enter into poetry and delight in it ; but it is all nonsense to him , ' said Ethel . 
And it was again happily discussed ; Ethel , satisfied by finding him fully set upon the design , and Margaret , giving cordial sympathy and counsel . 
When Ethel was called away , Margaret said , ` I am so glad you have taken it up , not only for the sake of Cocksmoor , but of Ethel . 
It is good for her not to spend her high soul in dreams . ' 
` I am afraid she does not know what she undertakes , ' said Richard . 
` She does not ; but you will keep her from being turned back . 
It is just the thing to prevent her energies from running to waste , and her being so much with you , and working under you , is exactly what one would have chosen . ' 
I do n't half understand or follow her , and when I think a thing nonsense , I see you all calling it very fine , and I do n't know what to make of it -- ' ` You are making yourself out more dull than you are , ' said Margaret , affectionately . 
If I were as clever as he , I could do so much with Ethel , and be so much more to papa . ' 
Norman must have been dreaming , for he had taken to school , by mistake , Richard 's old Gradus that Ethel uses , and there were ever so many rough copies of hers sticking in it . ' 
` Poor Ethel ! 
He showed them up , and would have got some noted good mark , but that , by great good luck , Ethel had made two of her pentameters too short , which he had n't the wit to find out , thinking all Norman did must be right . 
said Harry , who regarded Ethel 's attainments as something contraband . 
` Are these verses of poor Ethel 's safe at home ? ' 
Etheldred had the satisfaction of seeing the Taylors at school on Sunday , but no Halls made their appearance , and , on inquiry , she was told , ` Please ma'am , they said they would not come ; ' so Ethel condemned Granny Hall as ' a horrid , vile , false , hypocritical old creature ! 
It was no use having any thing more to do with her . ' 
I want to have no more to say to -- ' but here Ethel caught herself up , and began to perceive what a happiness it was that she had not the power of acting on her own impulses . 
The twins and their little brother of two years old were Christened in the afternoon , and Flora invited the parents to drink tea in the kitchen , and visit Lucy , while Ethel and Mary each carried a baby up-stairs to exhibit to Margaret . 
At tea , he began to rehearse his information , and the Doctor listened with interest , which put Ethel in happy agitation , believing that the moment was come , and Richard seemed to be only waiting for the conclusion of a long tirade against those who ought to do something for the place , when behold ! 
thought Ethel , it suits me as well as the children . 
She was less impatient this week , partly from the sense of being on probation , and partly because she , in common with all the rest , was much engrossed with Harry 's fate . 
Now that Harry 's destiny was fixed , Ethel began to think of Cocksmoor again , and she accomplished another walk there with Richard , Flora , and Mary , to question Granny Hall about the children 's failure . 
There was certainly a charm in her manners , for Ethel forgot her charge of ingratitude , the other sisters were perfectly taken with her , nor could they any of them help giving credence to her asseverations that Jenny and Polly should come to school next Sunday . 
was Ethel 's exclamation . 
` How well you helped us out , Flora , ' said Ethel ; ` I did not know in the least what to say . ' 
` We did not expect to find a perfect place , ' said Ethel ; ` if it were , it would be of no use to go to it . ' 
Ethel could answer with dignity , but her heart sank at the aspect of what she had undertaken . 
She knew there would be evil , but she had expected it in a more striking and less disagreeable form . 
That walk certainly made her less impatient , though it did not relax her determination , nor the guard over her lion and bear , which her own good feeling , aided by Margaret 's counsel , showed her were the greatest hindrances to her doing anything good and great . 
Richard and Ethel themselves had their thoughts otherwise engrossed . 
Mr. Wilmot , in a call on Ethel and Flora , told them that he thought their brother had a fair chance , but he feared he was over-working himself , and should tell the Doctor so , whenever he could catch him ; but this was difficult , as there was a great deal of illness just then , and he was less at home than usual . 
The great day was the 20th of December , and Ethel ran out , as the boys went to school , to judge of Norman 's looks , which were not promising . 
` But never mind , Ethel , if he only beats Anderson , I do n't care for anything else . ' 
` He 'll light up at the last moment , ' said Ethel , consolingly , to Harry ; but she was very uneasy herself , for she had set her heart on his surpassing Harvey Anderson . 
Eight , and no tidings ; nine , the boys not come ; Tom obliged to go to bed by sheer sleepiness , and Ethel unable to sit still , and causing Flora demurely to wonder at her fidgetting so much , it would be so much better to fix her attention to some employment ; while Margaret owned that Flora was right , but watched , and started at each sound , almost as anxiously as Ethel . 
Flossy , Ethel , Mary ! 
Ethel paused in her exultation : ` But is it , is it true , Norman ? ' 
said Ethel , knowing what was the greater suffering ; but he did not move , and they forbore to torment him with questions . 
` And tell us more , Harry , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel ; ` he would have taken such delight in it ; but , even if he could have gone , he doubted whether it would not have made Norman get on worse from anxiety . ' 
Ethel 's joy was sadly damped by Norman 's manner . 
sighed Ethel , nearly ready to cry , 't is not like what I used to fancy it would be when he came to the head of the school ! ' 
` It will be different to-morrow , ' said Margaret , trying to console herself as well as Ethel . 
Ethel did not understand what mental fatigue was , for her active , vigorous spirit had never been tasked beyond its powers . 
said she , disconsolately . 
` No , no , Ethel , you ar n't going to blame your own Norman for unkindness on this of all days in the year . 
You know how it was , you love him better ; just as I do , for not being able to bear to stay in this room , where -- ' ` Yes , ' said Ethel , mournfully ; ` it was a great shame of me ! 
` What , Ethel , you , who said you did n't care for mere distinction and praise ? 
` It is very tiresome , ' said Ethel , nearly convinced , but in a slightly petulant voice . 
Ethel smiled , and drew up her head , and said no boys were like them anywhere , and papa would be delighted , and so went to bed happier in her exultation , and in hoping that the holidays would make Norman himself again . 
and the whole tone and gesture had a heartfelt approval and joy in them , that Ethel knew her brother was deeply thrilled by , for his colour deepened , and his lips quivered into something like a smile , though he did not lift his eyes . 
Ethel -- ` O , give us for our Kings such Queens , And for our Ducks such Drakes . ' 
Ethel wondered whether anyone but herself observed that the voice most seldom heard was Norman 's . 
They were then resigned to Ethel 's keeping , and she could not help imparting her admiration to their author , with some apology for vexing him again . 
` And another thing , Ethel , I do n't feel as if I had fairly earned it . 
said Ethel , ` like that night you did the coral-worm verses . 
To which he answered , with displeasure , that he was as well as possible , ordered her not to go and make any more fuss , and left her hastily . 
She was unhappy , and far from satisfied ; she had never known his temper so much affected , and was much puzzled ; but she was too much afraid of vexing him , to impart her perplexity even to Margaret . 
However , the next day , Sunday , as she was reading to Margaret after Church , her father came in , and the first thing he said was , ` I want to know what you think of Norman : ' ` How do you mean ? ' 
` Mind and body , ' said Margaret , while Ethel gazed intently at her father , wondering whether she ought to speak , for Margaret did not know half what she did ; nothing about the bad nights , nor what he called the ` funny state . ' 
Why , Ethel , you have turned as red as he did . ' 
exclaimed Ethel , in a smothered voice . 
Speak , Ethel . ' 
` He has gone past it -- the place , ' whispered she . 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , ` he has always gone round Randall 's alley or the garden ; he has said nothing , but has contrived to avoid it . 
exclaimed her father ; ` I had not notion of that . 
` He went on with Mr. Ernescliffe , and saw it all , ' said Ethel , as her father drew out her words , apparently with his eye ; ` and then came up to my room so faint that he was obliged to lie on the floor ever so long . ' 
said her father , examining her without apparent emotion , as if it had been an indifferent patient . 
` Terrible ones , ' said Ethel ; ` I do n't think he ever sleeps quietly till morning ; he has dreams , and he groans and talks in his sleep : Harry can tell you all that . ' 
` He could not bear to have it mentioned , ' said Ethel , timidly ; ` and I did n't know that it signified so much ; does it ? ' 
said Ethel , in great dismay . 
And Ethel was much relieved by pouring out all she knew , though her alarm was by no means lessened by the effect it produced on her father , especially when he heard of the `` funny state . 
cried Ethel , in extreme distress , ` what shall I do ! 
I wish I had told you , but -- ' ` I 'm not blaming you , Ethel , you knew no better , but it has been grievous neglect . 
He went away , leaving Margaret to comfort Ethel as well as she could , by showing her that he had not said the mischief was done , putting her in mind that he was wont to speak strongly ; and trying to make her thankful that her brother would now have such care as might avert all evil results . 
` But , oh , ' said Ethel , ` his success has been dearly purchased ! ' 
His father found him after breakfast lying on the sofa in the drawing-room with a Greek play by his side , telling Ethel what words to look out . 
` Carry it away , Ethel . 
` Just so , Ethel . 
Richard and Ethel were glad of a walk , for Margaret had found them a pleasant errand . 
Ethel and Flora were obliged to appear in the drawing-room , where they were greeted by two girls , rather older than themselves . 
exclaimed Ethel , pleased at participation in her rejoicing . 
Flora gave a glance of warning , but Ethel 's short-sighted eyes were beyond the range of correspondence , and Miss Anderson continued . 
` Norman was sorry for Forder and Cheviot -- ' began Ethel . 
` Poor Norman ca n't help it , ' said Ethel , piteously . 
` By-the-bye , Ethel , it is you that are the great patroness of the wild Cocksmoor children -- are not you ? ' 
Ethel coloured , and mumbled , and Flora answered for her , ` Richard and Ethel have been there once or twice . 
cried Ethel , vehemently ; ` surely she does not suspect any of those poor children ! ' 
` But is she sure she lost it at school ? ' 
She will not accuse anyone , but it is not comfortable . 
` Richard thinks it might drive them away to insist at first , ' said Ethel ; ` we will try to bring it about in time . ' 
` Well , Mrs. Ledwich is nearly resolved to insist , so you had better be warned , Ethel . 
She can not suffer such untidiness and rags to spoil the appearance of the school , and , I assure you , it is quite unpleasant to the teachers . ' 
said Ethel . 
The visitors took their leave , and the two sisters began exclaiming -- Ethel at their dislike of her protégés , and Flora at what they had said of Norman . 
` And you , Ethel , how could you go and tell them we were surprised , and Norman thought it was hard on the other boys ? 
cried Ethel ; ` they must have understood better that it was his noble humility and generosity . ' 
cried Ethel ; ` Norman must get that ! ' 
` I almost wish he had not been put up at all , if it is to end in this way , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel was very unhappy till she was able to pour all this trouble out to Margaret , and worked herself almost into crying about Norman 's being passed by ` that Harvey , ' and his sisters exulting , and papa being vexed , and Norman losing time and not caring . 
` There you are wrong , ' said Margaret , ` Norman did care very much , and it was not till he had seen clearly that it was a matter of duty to do as papa thought right , and not agitate his mind about his chances of keeping up , that he could bear to give up his work ; and she told Ethel a little of what had passed . 
Ethel was much struck . 
` Dear Ethel , why should you mind so much about the Andersons ? 
said Ethel . 
` I suppose they do , said Ethel , grudgingly ; ` but still I can not bear to see Norman doing nothing , and know Harvey Anderson will beat him . ' 
` Yes ; but , Ethel , whose doing is his getting into this state ? ' 
Ethel looked grave . 
` It was wrong of me , ' said she , ` but then papa is not sure that Greek would hurt him . ' 
But , Ethel , dear , why are you so bent on his being Dux at all costs ? ' 
` Yes , I know I did , ' said Ethel , faltering , ` but that was for one 's self . ' 
Ethel hung her head . 
` There 's some of that , ' she said , ` but it is not all . 
` I ca n't tell , ' said Ethel , ` but it is the being triumphed over that I can not bear . ' 
''' Ethel was silent for some little space , then suddenly exclaimed , ` And you think he will really be put down ? ' 
Margaret seemed to have been talking with little effect , but she kept her patience , and answered , ` I can not guess , Ethel , but I 'll tell you one thing -- I think there 's much more chance if he comes to his work fresh and vigorous after a rest , than if he went on dulling himself with it all this time . ' 
With which Ethel was so far appeased that she promised to think as little as she could of the Andersons , and a walk with Richard to Cocksmoor turned the current of her thoughts . 
` What do you think I heard , Ethel ? ' 
cried Ethel . 
Flora had managed admirably , and the only mishap was some awkward carving of Ethel 's which had caused the dish to be changed with Norman . 
Ethel abruptly pronounced , ` I am very glad Aunt Flora married Uncle Arnott instead . ' 
` No , ' said Ethel ; ` that was the thing . ' 
` No , ' again said Ethel ; ` but papa has a way -- do n't you know , Margaret , how one can tell in a moment if it is company talk . ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel ; ` and then when papa told him that beautiful history of Dr. Spencer going to take care of those poor emigrants in the fever , what do you think he said ? 
Come , Ethel . 
` You are like me , ' said Ethel , ` in being glad he is not our uncle . ' 
` I ca n't find much ground for Ethel 's dislike , and Flora is pleased . ' 
` She did not hear the worst , nor you either , Ethel , ' said Norman . 
Ethel and Norman came up after breakfast , their aversion by no means decreased by further acquaintance . 
Ethel was highly indignant at the tone in which he had exclaimed , ` What , May , have you one as young as this ? ' 
on discovering the existence of the baby ; and when Norman observed that was not so atrocious either , she proceeded , ` You did not hear the contemptuous compassionate tone when he asked papa what he meant to do with all these boys . ' 
said Ethel . 
` The little affected pussy-cat made a set at him , bridled and talked in her mincing voice , with all her airs , and made him take a great deal of notice of her . ' 
In all his joy , however , Dr. May could not cease bewailing the alteration in his old friend , and spent half the evening in telling Margaret how different he had once been , in terms little less measured than Ethel 's : ` I never saw such a change . 
Ethel was in a vehement state of indignation at what had that day happened at school . 
` It is the same in effect , ' said Ethel , ` to turn them from school ; for if they did try to go alone , the pew-openers would drive them out . ' 
said Ethel . 
` Ethel , my dear , ' said Margaret , pleadingly . 
papa , that would not be fair -- ' began Ethel ; but Margaret knew he would not act on this , squeezed her hand , and silenced her . 
` Papa , ' said Richard , who had all the time been standing silent , ` Ethel and I have been thinking , if you approved , whether we could not do something towards teaching the Cocksmoor children , and breaking them in for the Sunday school . ' 
What a bound Ethel 's heart gave , and how full of congratulation and sympathy was the pressure of Margaret 's hand ! 
Ethel burnt to reply , but her sister 's hand admonished her to remember her compact . 
Ethel , unable to bear it any longer , threw herself forward , and sitting on the ground at her father 's feet , exclaimed , ` O papa ! 
Ethel , have a fancy for two whole months , and the whole house not hear of it ! ' 
said her father , with a rather provoking look of incredulity . 
She clasped her hands in ecstacy . 
` I 've got Richard to help me , ' said Ethel . 
` Sufficient guarantee , ' said her father , smiling archly as he looked up to his son , whose fair face had coloured deep red . 
` And to know her right hand from her left , Eh , Ethel ? 
` If you would help us , ' said Ethel , with an odd shy manner ; ` we meant to make what we have go as far as may be , but mine is only fifteen and sixpence . ' 
said Ethel . 
` But look you here , Ethel , if you 'll take my advice , you 'll make your bargain for Tuesday . 
What do you think of that , Ethel ? 
An old banker , rich enough for his daughter to curl her hair in bank notes . 
Ethel ran up to her room , hardly able to believe that the mighty proposal was made ; and it had been so readily granted , that it seemed as if Richard 's caution had been vain in making such a delay , that even Margaret had begun to fear that the street of by-and-by was leading to the house of never . 
Ethel was in a wild state of felicity all that evening and the next day , very unlike her brother , who , dismayed at the open step he had taken , shrank into himself , and in his shyness dreaded the discussion in the evening , and would almost have been relieved , if Mr. Wilmot had been unable to accept the invitation . 
So quiet and grave was he , that Ethel could not get him to talk over the matter at all with her , and she was obliged to bestow all her transports and grand projects on Flora or Margaret , when she could gain their ears , besides conning them over to herself , as an accompaniment to her lessons , by which means she tried Miss Winter 's patience almost beyond measure . 
Margaret began to feel a little overwhelmed , and while answering yes at intervals , was considering whether Ethel had not been flying about in an absent inconsiderate mood all day , and whether it would seem unkind to damp her ardour , by giving her a hint that she was relaxing her guard over herself . 
Before Margaret had steeled herself , Ethel was talking of a story she had read , of a place something like Cocksmoor . 
Margaret was not ready with her recollection , and Ethel , saying it was in a magazine in the drawing-room chiffoniere , declared she would fetch it . 
Margaret knew what it was to expect her visitors to return ` in one moment , ' and with a ` now-or-never ' feeling she began , ` Ethel dear , wait , ' but Ethel was too impetuous to attend . 
` I 'll be back in a twinkling , ' she called out , and down she flew , in her speed whisking away , without seeing it , the basket with Margaret 's knitting and all her notes and papers , which lay scattered on the floor far out of reach , vexing Margaret at first , and then making her grieve at her own impatient feeling . 
Ethel was soon in the drawing-room , but the right number of the magazine was not quickly forthcoming , and in searching she became embarked in another story . 
Just then , Aubrey , whose stout legs were apt to carry him into every part of the house where he was neither expected nor wanted , marched in at the open door , trying by dint of vehement gestures to make her understand , in his imperfect speech , something that he wanted . 
Very particularly troublesome she thought him , more especially as she could not make him out , otherwise than that he wanted her to do something with the newspaper and the fire . 
She made a boat for him with an old newspaper , a very hasty and frail performance , and told him to sail it on the carpet , and be Mr. Ernescliffe going away ; and she thought him thus safely disposed of . 
Returning to her book and her search , with her face to the cupboard , and her book held up to catch the light , she was soon lost in her story , and thought of nothing more till suddenly roused by her father 's voice in the hall , loud and peremptory with alarm , ` Aubrey ! 
She looked , and beheld Aubrey brandishing a great flaming paper -- he dropped it at the exclamation -- it fell burning on the carpet . 
Ethel was springing up , but in her cramped , twisted position , she could not do so quickly , and even as he called , her father strode by her , snatched at Aubrey 's merino frock , which he crushed over the scarcely lighted pinafore , and trampled out the flaming paper with his foot . 
` Ethel ! ' 
Ethel stood by , pale and transfixed with horror . 
Her father was more angry with her , than she had ever seen him , and with reason , as she knew , as she smelt the singeing , and saw a large burnt hole in Aubrey 's pinafore , while the front of his frock was scorched and brown . 
` I did n't see -- ' she faultered . 
That 's it , Ethel . 
Ethel was too much terrified to know where she was , or anything , but that she had let her little brother run into fearful peril , and grievously angered her father ; she was afraid to follow him , and stood still , annihilated , and in despair , till roused by his return ; then , with a stifled sob , she exclaimed , ` Oh , papa ! ' 
But the anger of the shock of terror was over , and Dr. May was sorry for her tears , though still he could not but manifest some displeasure . 
` Yes , Ethel , ' he said , ` it was a frightful thing , ' and he could not but shudder again . 
It is an escape to be for ever thankful for -- poor little fellow -- but Ethel , Ethel , do let it be a warning to you . ' 
` O , I hope -- I 'll try -- sobbed Ethel . 
` I know I have , ' said Ethel , choked . 
` If I could but -- ' ` Poor child , ' said Dr. May , sadly ; then looking earnestly at her , ` Ethel , my dear , I am afraid of its being with you as -- as it has been with me ; ' he spoke very low , and drew her close to him . 
said Ethel , clasping her hands . 
He knows how she would wish him to cheer up and look to the end , and support and comfort are given to him , I know they are ; but oh , Ethel ! 
Ethel was in great distress . 
said she , ` and just as he seemed better and brighter ! 
` Ethel , I do n't really think he could have told you so . ' 
` Well , I suppose it is part of his nature , and that you have inherited it , but -- ' Margaret paused -- and Ethel exclaimed , ` He said his was long-nurtured ; yes , Margaret , you guessed right , and he said he could not change it , and no more can I. ' ` Surely , Ethel , you have not had so many years . 
` Do you know , Ethel , I was thinking whether dear mamma would not say that was the reason . 
` I should not wonder if that was it , ' said Ethel , thoughtfully . 
` I wish you had , ' said Ethel . 
cried Ethel , ` he must have wanted me to make the fire blaze up , as Richard did one evening when we came in and found it low ; I remember Aubrey clapping his hands and shouting at the flame ; but my head was in that unhappy story , and I never had sense to put the things together , and reflect that he would try to do it himself . 
Ethel sat for a long time with her head hidden in Margaret 's pillow , and her hand clasped by her good elder sister . 
At last she looked up and said , ` O Margaret , I am so unhappy . 
` Dearest Ethel , I do n't see that . 
` It 's hope is in Richard , ' said Ethel . 
` I wish Mr. Wilmot was not coming to-night , ' said Ethel again . 
Ethel lingered with her sister till Harry and Mary came up with Margaret 's tea , and summoned her , and she crept down stairs , and entered the room so quietly , that she was hardly perceived behind her boisterous brother . 
Ethel , on coming in , found Flora making tea , her father leaning back in his great chair in silence , Richard diligently cutting bread , and Blanche sitting on Mr. Wilmot 's knee , chattering fast and confidentially . 
Flora made Harry dispense the cups , and called everyone to their places ; Ethel timidly glanced at her father 's face , as he rose and came into the light . 
She thought the lines and hollows were more marked than ever , and that he looked fatigued and mournful , and she felt cut to the heart ; but he began to exert himself , and to make conversation , not , however , about Cocksmoor , but asking Mr. Wilmot what his brother thought of his new squire , Mr. Rivers . 
` One daughter , about Ethel 's age , is there with her governess . 
So long did this last , that Ethel began to think her father meant to punish her by not beginning the subject that night , and though she owned that she deserved it , she could not help being very much disappointed . 
At length , however , her father began : ` We wanted you to talk over a scheme that these young ones have been concocting . 
We ca n't do without him any way , so he and Ethel have a scheme of seeing what can be done for that wretched place , Cocksmoor . ' 
This embarked the Doctor in the history of the ladies being too fine to teach the poor Cocksmoor girls , which he told with kindling vehemence and indignation , growing more animated every moment , as he stormed over the wonted subject of the bad system of management -- ladies ' committee -- negligent incumbent -- incumbent -- insufficient clergy -- misappropriated tithes -- while Mr. Wilmot , who had mourned over it , within himself , a hundred times already , and was doing a Curate 's work on sufferance , with no pay , and little but mistrust from Mr. Ramsden , and absurd false reports among the more foolish part of the town , sat listening patiently , glad to hear the Doctor in his old strain , though it was a hopeless matter for discussion , and Ethel dreaded that the lamentation would go on till bed-time , and Cocksmoor be quite forgotten . 
Ethel left it all to him , and he with rising colour , and quiet , unhesitating , though diffident manner , detailed designs that showed themselves to have been well matured . 
Mr. Wilmot heard , cordially approved , and , as all agreed that no time was to be lost , while the holidays lasted , he undertook to speak to Mr. Ramsden on the subject the next morning , and if his consent to their schemes could be gained , to come in the afternoon to walk with Richard and Ethel to Cocksmoor , and set their affairs in order . 
All the time Ethel said not a word , except when referred to by her brother ; but when Mr. Wilmot took leave , he shook her hand warmly , as if he was much pleased with her . 
she thought , ` if he knew how ill I have behaved ! 
She did not know that Mr. Wilmot thought her silence one of the best signs for the plan , nor how much more doubtful he would have thought her perseverance , if he had seen her wild and vehement . 
` Ethel wo n't believe it rains unless it is very bad , ' said Richard . 
I wonder what Ethel is doing about Cocksmoor . 
` At Stoneborough , ' said Norman , a little amused at the thought how angry Ethel and Harry would be that the paragraph of the county paper , where ` N. W. May ' was recorded as prizeman and foremost in the examination , had not penetrated even to Abbotstoke Grange , or rather to its owner 's memory . 
So you braved the rain , Ethel . 
` Very well on the whole , was Mr. Wilmot 's answer , while Ethel scrambled in , and tried to make herself small , an art in which she was not very successful ; and Norman gave an exclamation of horrified warning , as she was about to step into the flower - basket ; then she nearly tumbled out again in dismay , and was relieved to find herself safely wedged in , without having done any harm , while her father called out to Mr. Wilmot , as they started , ` I say ! 
That cheerful tone , and the kindness to herself , were a refreshment and revival to Ethel , who was still sobered and shocked by her yesterday 's adventure , and by the sense of her father 's sorrowful displeasure . 
Expecting further to be scolded for getting in so awkwardly , she did not venture to volunteer anything , and even when he kindly said , ` I hope you were prosperous in your expedition , ' she only made answer , in a very grave voice , ` Yes , papa , we have taken a very nice tidy room . ' 
` It is only two guineas to-day ; that banker at the Grange beguiled us of our time , but you had better close the bargain for him , Ethel -- he will be a revenue for you , for this winter at least . ' 
` O thank you , papa , ' was all Ethel could say ; overpowered by his kindness , and more repressed by what she felt so unmerited , than she would have been by coldness , she said few words , and preferred listening to Norman , who began to describe their adventures at the Grange . 
All her eagerness revived , however , as she sprung out of the carriage , full of tidings for Margaret ; and it was almost a race between her and Norman to get up-stairs , and unfold their separate budgets . 
Well , Ethel , are you come home too ? ' 
Ethel went on with her history . 
Ethel departed on her father 's coming in to ask Margaret if she would like to have a visit from Mr. Wilmot . 
` It is most desirable that something should be done for those poor people , and Richard would never act rashly ; but I have longed for advice whether it was right to promote Ethel 's undertaking . 
I suppose Richard told you how bent on it she was , long before papa was told of it . ' 
` He said it was her great wish , and had been so for a long time past . ' 
Margaret , in words more adequate to express the possession the project had gained of Ethel 's ardent mind , explained the whole history of it . 
` I do believe she looks on it as a sort of call , ' said she , ` and I have felt as if I ought not to hinder her , and yet I did not know whether it was right , at her age , to let her undertake so much . ' 
` I understand , ' said Mr. Wilmot , ` but , from what I have seen of Ethel , I should think you had decided rightly . 
He came up after tea , reporting that papa was fast asleep in his chair , and the others would go on about Cocksmoor till midnight , if they were let alone ; and made up for his previous yielding to Ethel , by giving , with much animation , and some excitement , a glowing description of the Grange , so graphic , that Margaret said she could almost fancy she had been there . 
In a large family it must often happen , that since every member of it can not ride the same hobby , nor at the same time , their several steeds must sometimes run counter to each other ; and so Ethel found it , one morning when Miss Winter , having a bad cold , had given her an unwonted holiday . 
Mr. Wilmot had sent a large parcel of books for her to choose from for Cocksmoor , but this she could not well do without consultation . 
The multitude bewildered her , she was afraid of taking too many or too few , and the being brought to these practical details made her sensible that though her schemes were very grand and full for future doings , they passed very lightly over the intermediate ground . 
The ` Paulò post futurum ` was a period much more developed in her imagination than the future , that the present was flowing into . 
Where was her coadjutor , Richard ? 
She had better have waited tranquilly , but this would not suit her impatience , and she ran up to Margaret 's room . 
In came Ethel . 
Because then you can judge , ' said Ethel . 
I should like to look over them by-and-by , dear Ethel , very much . ' 
Ethel gazed and went away , more put out than was usual with her . 
Ethel could not deny it , and began to deal them out in piles , looking somewhat more fitting , but still felt neglected and aggrieved , at no one being at leisure but Harry , who was not likely to be of any use to her . 
Presently she heard the study door open , and hoped ; but though it was Richard who entered the room , he was followed by Tom , and each held various books that boded little good to her . 
Miss Winter had , much to her own satisfaction , been relieved from the charge of Tom , whose lessons Richard had taken upon himself ; and thus Ethel had heard so little about them for a long time past , that even in her vexation and desire to have them over , she listened with interest , desirous to judge what sort of place Tom might be likely to take in school . 
She did not perceive that this made Richard nervous and uneasy . 
He had a great dislike to spectators of Latin lessons ; he never had forgotten an unlucky occasion , some years back , when his father was examining him in the Georgics , and he , dull by nature , and duller by confusion and timidity , had gone on rendering word for word -- enim for , seges a crop , lini of mud , urit burns , campum the field , avenæ a crop of pipe , urit burns it , when Norman and Ethel had first warned him of the beauty of his translation by an explosion of laughing , when his father had shut the book with a bounce , shaken his head in utter despair , and told him to give up all thoughts of doing anything -- and when Margaret had cried with vexation . 
Since that time , he had never been happy when anyone was in earshot of a lesson ; but to-day he had no escape -- Harry lay on the rug reading , and Ethel sat forlorn over her books on the sofa . 
Tom , however , was bright enough , declined his Greek nouns irreproachably , and construed his Latin so well , that Ethel could not help putting in a word or two of commendation , and auguring the third form . 
` Do let him off the parsing , Ritchie , ' said she , coaxingly -- ` he has said it so well , and I want you so much . ' 
` I am afraid I must not , ' said Richard ; who , to her surprise , did not look pleased or satisfied with the prosperous translation ; ` but come , Tom , you sha n't have many words , if you really know them . ' 
` Third person singular , præter perfect tense of the verb affo , affis , affui , affere , ' gabbled off Tom with such confidence , that though Ethel gave an indignant jump , Richard was almost startled into letting it pass , and disbelieving himself . 
Ethel was surprised , for she remembered that it was , in this passage , part of a passive verb , which Tom had construed correctly , ` it was objected , ' and she had thought this very creditable to him , whereas he now evidently took it for opposite ; however , on Richard 's reading the line , he corrected himself and called it a participle , but did not commit himself further , till asked for its derivation . 
` Oppositus , ' said Tom , twisting his fingers , and gazing first at Ethel , then at Harry , in hopes of being prompted , then at the ceiling and floor , the while he drawled out the word with a whine , ` why , oppositus from op-posor . ' 
Richard , with the gravity of a victim , heard this sally of schoolboy wit , which threw Ethel back on the sofa in fits of laughing , and declaring that the Opossum declined , not that he was declined ; but , in the midst of the disturbance thus created , Tom stepped up to her , and whispered , ` Do tell me , Ethel . ' 
` Indeed I sha n't , ' said she . 
Ethel could not help saying , ` How did you find out the meaning of that word , Tom , if you did n't look out the verb ? ' 
` It is very odd , ' she said , decidedly ; but Richard took no notice , and proceeded to the other lessons , which went off tolerably well , except the arithmetic , where there was some great misunderstanding , into which Ethel did not enter for some time . 
When she did attend , she perceived that Tom had brought a right answer , without understanding the working of the sum , and that Richard was putting him through it . 
She began to be worked into a state of dismay and indignation at Tom 's behaviour , and Richard 's calm indifference , which made her almost forget Jane Sparks , and long to be alone with Richard ; but all the world kept coming into the room , and going out , and she could not say what was in her mind till after dinner , when , seeing Richard go up into Margaret 's room , she ran after him , and entering it , surprised Margaret , by not beginning on her books , but saying at once , ` Ritchie , I wanted to speak to you about Tom . 
said Ethel , astonished not to see her sister looked shocked as well as sorry . 
` Well , I ca n't think how you can take it so quietly , ' said Ethel . 
` Ethel , Ethel , that would never do ! ' 
` Well , so he deserves , ' said Ethel . 
cried Ethel , who thought she knew pretty well what his sharp words were . 
` I think all that is expediency , ' said Ethel , in her bluff , abrupt way . 
cried Ethel . 
` Then Tom ought not to go to school at all till he is well armed against it , ' said Ethel . 
` Well , ' said Ethel , ` of course I sha n't tell , because it is not my business , but I think papa ought to know everything about us , and I do n't like your keeping anything back . 
With which words , as Flora entered , Ethel marched out of the room in displeasure , and went down , resolved to settle Jane Sparks by herself . 
` Ethel is out of sorts to-day , ' said Flora . 
Her principle is quite right , but I doubt -- ' ` I know exactly how Ethel would do it ! ' 
` Ethel 's rule is right in principle , ' said Margaret , thoughtfully , that papa ought to know all without reserve , and yet it will hardly do in practice . 
Ethel was put out , as Flora had discovered , and when she was down stairs she found it out , and accused herself of having been cross to Margaret , and unkind to Tom -- of wishing to be a tell-tale . 
Margaret and Norman were engrossed in the subject , and , to Ethel , who had no toleration for fancy work , who expected everything to be either useful or intellectual , this seemed very frivolous . 
She knew , too , that Margaret did it for his sake , but , said Ethel to herself , ` It was very odd that people should find amusement in such things . 
There walked Mr. Wilmot , Richard , and Flora , with Mary , in a jumping capering state of delight , and Ethel , not knowing whether she rejoiced . 
She kept apart from the rest , and hardly spoke , for this long probation had impressed her with a sense of responsibility , and she knew that it was a great work to which she had set her hand -- a work in which she must persevere , and in which she could not succeed in her own strength . 
She took hold of Flora 's hand , and squeezed it hard , in a fit of shyness , when they came upon the hamlet , and saw the children watching for them ; and when they reached the house , she would fain have shrank into nothing ; there was a swelling of heart that seemed to ovewhelm and stifle her , and the effect of which was to keep her standing unhelpful , when the others were busy bringing in the benches and settling the room . 
Ethel felt some dismay when they all came pushing in , without order or civility , and would have been utterly at a loss what to do with her scholars now she had got them , if Richard and Flora had not marshalled them to the benches . 
Ethel felt as if she could bear it better , and was more up to the work after this . 
To some this seemed to give great satisfaction , especially to Una , but Ethel was surprised to see that many , and those not only little ones , talked and yawned . 
It was plain that it was time to leave off , and there was no capacity there which did not find the conclusion agreeable , when the basket was opened , and Ethel and Mary distributed the buns , with instructions to say ` thank you . ' 
The next Tuesday , some of the lessons were learnt , Una 's perfectly ; the big ignorant boy came no more ; and some of the children had learnt to behave better , while others behaved worse ; Ethel began to know what she was about ; Richard 's gentleness was eminently successful with the little girls , impressing good manners on them in a marvellous way ; and Mary 's importance and happiness with alphabet scholars , some bigger than herself , were edifying . 
But the bustle was oppressive , and her cheerful manner was an effort ; she longed to see them all gone , and Flora found it out , sent the children for their walk , and carried off Ethel and the brothers . 
Dr. May was called out of the room at the same time , and she was left alone . 
She gazed round her , at the room where , four months before , she had seen her mother with the babe in her arms , the children clustered round her , her father exulting in his hen-and-chicken daisies , herself full of bright undefined hope , radiant with health and activity , and her one trouble such that she now knew the force of her mother 's words , that it only proved her happiness . 
` Ethel fancies it is rather frivolous of him , I believe ; but it amuses me to see how men give dignity to what women make trifling . 
Ethel asked ; and was told pretty much the same as when he went away ; and , on a further query from Flora , it appeared that an old naval friend of his father 's had hopes of a ship , and had promised to have him with him , and thereupon warm hopes were expressed that Harry might have a berth in the same . 
said Ethel . 
Norman triumphantly gave the key to Richard , and then called to Ethel : I say , wo n't you come into my room while I unpack ? ' 
Ethel sat on the bed , rolled up in a cloak , while Norman undid his bag , announcing at the same time : ` Well , Ethel , papa says I may get to my Euripides to-morrow , if I please , and only work an hour at a time ! ' 
` I 'm glad he put both verses , ' said Ethel , presently . 
A silence while brother and sister both gazed intently at the crooked characters , till at last Ethel , with a long breath , resumed her ordinary tone , and said , ` How well he has come to write with his left hand now . ' 
` Do you know , Ethel , ' said Norman , as he knelt on the floor , and tumbled miscellaneous articles out of his bag , ` it is my belief that Ernescliffe is in love with her , and that papa thinks so . ' 
cried Ethel , starting up . 
` But mind , Ethel , for your life you must not say one word to any living creature . ' 
cried Ethel , eagerly . 
` Did you hear him inquire for her ? 
But I 'll tell you one thing , Ethel ; when papa was talking of her to Mrs. Mackenzie , at the other end of the room , all his attention went away in an instant from what he was saying . 
And once , when Harry said something to me about her , he started , and looked round so earnestly . ' 
` No ; I do n't recollect that he did , ' said Norman ; ` but I observed he never asked directly after her if he could help it , but always was trying to lead , in some round-about way , to hearing what she was doing . ' 
` Did he call her Margaret ? ' 
` I watched ; but to me he always said , `` Your sister , '' and if he had to speak of her to papa , he said , `` Miss May . '' 
cried Ethel , clasping her hands . 
` But , poor man , how unhappy he must have been at having to go away when she was so ill ! ' 
` Aye , the last time he saw her was when he carried her up-stairs . ' 
` Do n't you see , Ethel , that would be of no use while poor Margaret is no better . 
` He might have her when he was at home , ' said Ethel . 
said a voice , Ethel little expected . 
said Ethel , looking down . 
said Ethel , interrogatively , and blushing in emulation of her brother , who was crimson . 
` I 'll find it , ' said he , rushing off with a sort of nod and sign , that conveyed to Ethel that there was no help for it . 
So , with much confusion , she whispered into her papa 's ear that Norman had been telling her something he guessed about Mr. Ernescliffe . 
Her father at first smiled , a pleased amused smile . 
` He told me to say not one word , ' said Ethel . 
` Right -- mind you do n't , ' said Dr. May , and Ethel was surprised to see how sorrowful his face became . 
` repeated Ethel , vehemently . 
Ethel could not help whispering . 
said Dr. May , sighing ; then , as he caught her earnest eyes ; ` The more I see of Alan , the finer fellow I think him , and the more sorry I am for him . 
said Ethel . 
Though I so far deserve your compliment , Miss , that I should be foolish enough , if she were but well , to give my consent to-morrow , because I could not help it ; yet one ca n't live forty-six years in this world without seeing it is wrong to marry without a reasonable dependance -- and there wo n't be much among eleven of you . 
It makes my heart ache to think of it , come what may , as far as I can see , and without her to judge . 
Ethel sought her room , with graver , deeper thoughts of life than she had carried up stairs . 
I asked Flora if they were hers , and she laughed and said no ; and that Ethel would be much discomposed that I had seen them . 
Ethel keeps up with her brother Norman -- only fancy ! 
How clever she must be ! ' 
` No ; I was trying on their frocks , but they trailed on the ground upon me , so she asked if I would come and sit by the nursery fire till my habit was dry ; and there was the dear little good-humoured baby , so fair and pretty . 
She is not a bit shy , will go to anybody , but , they say , she likes no one so well as her brother Norman . ' 
` That I had ; I could not part with her , the darling . 
I wanted to have seen Ethel ; but , only think , papa has asked Dr. May to bring Flora some day ; how I hope he will ! ' 
` I wished to speak to you about deal Ethel , ' said the governess ; ` you know how unwilling I always am to make any complaint , but I can not be satisfied with her present way of going on . ' 
Margaret knew how Miss Winter often tried Ethel 's temper , and was inclined to take her sister 's part . 
` Ethel 's time is so fully occupied , ' she said . 
This was a new idea to Margaret , who was silent , longing to prove Miss Winter wrong , and not have to see poor Ethel pained by having to relinquish any of her cherished pursuits . 
` She does not work very well , ' said Margaret , who was at that moment , though Miss Winter did not know it , re-gathering a poor child 's frock that Ethel had gallopped through with more haste than good speed . 
` She works a great deal worse than little Blanche , ' said Miss Winter , ` and though it may not be the fashion to say so in these days , I consider good needlework far more important than accomplishments . 
Ethel 's best writing was an upright , disjointed , niggle , looking more like Greek than anything else , except where here and there it made insane efforts to become running-hand , and thereby lost its sole previous good quality of legibility , while the lines waved about the sheet in almost any direction but the horizontal . 
The necessity she believed herself under of doing what Harry called writing with the end of her nose , and her always holding her pen with her fingers almost in the ink , added considerably to the difficulty of the performance . 
This being at her best , the worst may be supposed to be indescribable , when dashed off in a violent hurry , and considerably garnished with blots . 
Miss Winter explained that Ethel had , in an extremely short time , performed an exercise in which no fault could be detected except the writing , which was pronounced to be too atrocious to be shown up to M. Ballompre . 
On being desired to write it over again , she had obeyed with a very bad grace , and some murmurs about Cocksmoor , and produced the second specimen , which , in addition to other defects , had some elisions from arrant carelessness , depriving it of its predecessor 's merits of being good French . 
Miss Winter had been so provoked , that she believed this to be an effect of ill temper , and declared that she should certainly have kept Ethel at home to write it over again , if it had not so happened that Dr. May had proposed to walk part of the way with her and Richard , and the governess was unwilling to bring her into disgrace with him . 
She could not but see much truth in what Miss Winter said , and yet she could not bear to thwart Ethel , whom she admired with her whole heart ; and that dry experience , and prejudiced preciseness , did not seem capable of entering into her sister 's thirst for learning and action . 
When Miss Winter said Ethel would grow up odd , eccentric , and blue , Margaret was ready to answer that she would be superior to everyone ; and when the governess urged her to insist on Cocksmoor being given up , she felt impatient of that utter want of sympathy for the good work . 
All that evening Margaret longed for a quiet time to reflect , but it never came till she was in bed ; and when she had made up her mind how to speak to Ethel , it was five times harder to secure her alone . 
` Pray do spare me a minute , Ethel , for I have something that I must say to you , and I am afraid you wo n't like it -- so do listen kindly . ' 
said Ethel , ` Miss Winter has been talking to you . 
I know she said she would tell you that she wants me to give up Cocksmoor . 
` Indeed , dear Ethel , I should be very sorry , but one thing I am sure of , that there is something amiss in your way of going on . ' 
` Did she show you that horrid exercise ? ' 
` You must wait a little longer , please , Ethel , for I want to say to you that I am afraid you are doing too much , and that prevents you from doing things well , as you were trying to do last autumn . ' 
cried Ethel , vehemently . 
` I want you to consider what is to be done , dear Ethel . 
` It is n't Cocksmoor that is the reason , ' said Ethel . 
` But can you , dear Ethel ? 
` I know I have been cross lately , ' said Ethel , ` but it 's the being so bothered . ' 
said Ethel , in an injured , unconvinced voice . 
` I know it would be very hard , ' said Margaret , but Ethel continued , in a piteous tone , a little sentimental : ` From hic hæc hoc up to Alcaics and beta Thukididou we have gone on together , and I ca n't bear to give it up . 
I 'm sure I can -- ' ` Stop , Ethel , I really doubt whether you can . 
Ethel looked very much mortified . 
` He has so much more time for it , ' said Ethel . 
Now consider , Ethel . 
` I do n't want one , ' said Ethel ; ` I only ca n't bear not to do as Norman does , and I like Greek so much . ' 
Ethel was silent , and large tears were gathering . 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , faintly . 
` Then , Ethel dearest , when you made up your mind to Cocksmoor , you knew those things could not be done without a sacrifice ? ' 
But indeed , Ethel , do n't say that I can let you leave off anything . 
Ethel made two or three great gulps : ` Margaret , must I give up everything , and forget all my Latin and Greek ? ' 
` Thank you , ' said Ethel , much relieved ; ` I 'm glad you do n't want me to leave it all off . 
I hope Norman wo n't be vexed , ' she added , looking a little melancholy . 
But Norman had not by any means the sort of sentiment on the subject that she had : ` Of course , you know , Ethel , ' said he , ` it must have come to this some time or other , and if you find those verses too hard , and that they take up too much of your time , you had better give them up . ' 
Ethel did not like anything to be said to be too hard for her , and was very near pleading she only wanted time , but some recollection came across her , and presently she said , ` I suppose it is a wrong sort of ambition to want to learn more , in one 's own way , when one is told it is not good for one . 
` I 'm glad you did not , ' said Norman , ` for it would have been very silly of you ; and I assure you , Ethel , it is really time for you to stop , or you would get into a regular learned lady , and be good for nothing . 
This argument from Norman himself , did much to reconcile Ethel 's mind to the sacrifice she had made ; and when she went to bed , she tried to work out the question in her own mind , whether her eagerness for classical learning was a wrong sort of ambition , to know what other girls did not , and whether it was right to crave for more knowledge than was thought advisable for her . 
She only bewildered herself , and went to sleep before she had settled anything , but that she knew she must make all give way to papa first , and , secondly , to Cocksmoor . 
He was only surprised to hear that Ethel had kept up so long with Norman , and thought that it was quite right that she should not undertake so much , agreeing more entirely than Margaret had expected with Miss Winter 's view , that it would be hurtful to body as well as mind . 
` I am glad I have , ' said Margaret ; ` and dear Ethel behaved so very well . 
If she had resisted , it would have puzzled me very much , I must have asked you to settle it . 
But it is very odd , papa , Ethel is the one of them all who treats me most as if I had real authority over her ; she lets me scold her , asks my leave , never seems to recollect for a moment how little older I am , and how much cleverer she is . 
And that always makes it more difficult to me to direct her ; I do n't like to take upon me with her , because it seems wrong to have her obeying me , as if she were a mere child . ' 
` She is a fine creature , ' said Dr. May , emphatically . 
I only meant that Ethel lays herself out to be ruled in quite a remarkable way . 
I am sure , though she does love learning , her real love is for goodness , and for you , papa . ' 
Ethel would have thought her sacrifice well paid for , had she seen her father 's look of mournful pleasure . 
` Suppose , ' Ethel had once said to him , ` that when you are a Clergyman , you could be Curate of Cocksmoor , when there is a Church there . ' 
` Richard borrowed it to look out something , and Ethel brought it down . ' 
` Norman , ' Ethel was exclaiming in delight , ` do you know this book ? ' 
` Some of them are the same as Mr. Rivers ' gems , ' said Norman , standing behind her , and turning the leaves , in search of a favourite . 
said Ethel . 
While Ethel spoke she opened the marked page , to show the extent of the calamity , and as she did so Mary exclaimed , ` Dear me ! 
Do n't you see , Ethel ? ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , ` nobody drew that but Harry . ' 
Margaret caressed and soothed her , to the best of her ability , trying to persuade her that , if Tom had done wrong , it was better for him it should be known , and assuring her that no one could think her unkind , nor a tell-tale ; then dismissing her to bed , and Mary was not unwilling to go , for she could not bear to meet Tom again , only begging in a whisper to Ethel , ` that , if dear Tom had not done it , she would come and tell her . ' 
sighed Ethel , as the door closed on Mary . 
said Ethel , looking in Norman 's face , as if she hardly ventured to put the question , and she only received sorrowful signs as answers . 
Margaret rested her head on the sofa , and looked very mournful , Richard stood by the fire without moving limb or feature , Flora worked fast , and Ethel leant back on an arm-chair , biting the end of a paper-knife . 
` And mine , ' put in Richard ; and she continued , ` Ethel told us we were very wrong , and I wish we had followed her advice . 
said Dr. May , though speaking to her much more softly than to Norman , to whom he turned angrily again . 
Ethel spoke hopefully when she had heard it . 
` Perhaps he will take a turn , as Ethel says , ' answered Norman , cheerfully . 
Mr. Wilmot was to examine the scholars , and buns and tea were provided , in addition to which Ethel designed to make a present to everyone -- a great task , considering that the Cocksmoor funds were reserved for absolute necessaries , and were at a very low ebb . 
Never were Easter gifts the source of more pleasure to the givers , especially when the nursery establishment met Dr. Hoxton near the pastry-cook 's shop , and he bestowed on Blanche a packet of variegated sugar-plums , all of which she literally poured out at Ethel 's feet , saying , ` I do n't want them . 
Most likely she would do like Ethel , if she had the opportunity , but she has not . ' 
As it is , it is a fine field for Ethel and Richard . 
I am sure it is training Ethel , or making her train herself , as we could never have done without it . 
It was one of his enthusiasms , he was so very fond of Ethel , probably because of her likeness to himself . 
Flora thought Ethel put almost too forward -- they all helped at Cocksmoor , and Ethel was very queer and unformed , and could do nothing by herself . 
The only thing Flora did keep in her mind was , that her papa had spoken to her , as if she were a woman compared with Ethel . 
Little Blanche made her report of the conversation to Mary , ` that it was so nice ; and now she did not care about Miss Rivers 's fine presents at all , for papa said what one made one 's self was better to give than what one bought . 
` I 'm sure I would , ' said Norman aside to Ethel . 
` One must not begin with showing dislike , ' began Ethel , ` or -- ' ` Aye -- you like rags , do n't you ? 
She wanted to find someone else on her side , and , as they went to bed , she said to Ethel , ` Do n't you wish we had some of this superfluity of the Riverses for poor Cocksmoor ? ' 
Ethel , Mary , and Blanche , flew about in all directions , and in spite of much undoing of their own arrangements , finished their preparations so much too early , that at half-past eleven , Mary complained that she had nothing to do , and that dinner would never come . 
The first division started on foot directly after dinner , the real council of education , as Norman called them , namely , Mr. Wilmot , Richard , Ethel , and Mary ; Flora , the other member , waited to take care of Blanche and Aubrey , who were to come in the gig , with the cakes , tea-kettles , and prizes , driven by Norman . 
Everybody trooped into Mrs. Green 's house , while Richard and Ethel ran different ways to secure that the fires were burning , which they had hired , to boil their kettles , with the tea in them . 
She could really read and say the Catechism , her Irish wit and love of learning had out-stripped all the rest , and she was the pride of Ethel 's heart , fit , now , to present herself on equal terms with the Stoneborough set , as far as her sense was concerned -- though , alas ! 
neither present nor exhortation had succeeded in making her anything , in looks , but a picturesque tatterdemalion , her sandy elf locks streaming over a pair of eyes , so dancing and gracieuses , that it was impossible to scold her . 
With beating heart , as if her own success in life depended for ever on the way her flock acquitted themselves , Ethel stood by Mr. Wilmot , trying to read answers coming out of the dull mouths of her children , and looking exultingly at Richard whenever some good reply was made , especially when Una answered an unexpected question . 
Flora 's whisper to Ethel was her first discovery , that the closeness and heat of the room were nearly overpowering . 
Her excitement had made all be forgotten . 
Ethel ! 
you do n't consider , ' said Ethel , in an agony . 
Ethel did own , when she was in the open air , ` that it had been rather hot . ' 
This was Ethel 's delight ! 
to this she made so many sacrifices ! 
this was all that her time and labour had effected ! 
He did not wish to vex her , but it was more than he could stand . 
However , Ethel was too much engrossed to look for sympathy . 
Flora and Ethel called the names , Mary and Blanche gave the presents , and assuredly the grins , courtesies , and pulls of the forelock they elicited , could not have been more hearty for any of Miss Rivers 's treasures . 
Mr. Wilmot rejoicing Ethel and Richard , by saying , ` Well , really , you have made a beginning . 
Ethel 's eyes beamed , and she hurried to tell Flora . 
How can you take Ethel into such a hole , Richard ? 
It is enough to kill her to go on with it for ever . ' 
` It is not fit that Ethel should give up everything , health and all , to such a set as these . 
Norman was not pleased with himself , but thought it his duty to let his father know his opinion of Ethel 's weekly resort . 
All he wished was to avoid Ethel herself , not liking to show her his sentiments , and he was glad to see her put into the gig with Aubrey and Mary . 
Mr. Rivers had been there , with a pressing invitation to his daughter 's school-feast , and it had been arranged that Flora and Ethel should go and spend the day at the Grange , and their father come to dine , and fetch them home in the evening . 
cried Ethel , enraptured , as soon as he came into the room . 
` Not just this minute , Ethel , ' said he , with his bright sad smile . 
Ethel threw herself eagerly into the history of the examination , and had almost forgotten the invitation till she heard the front door open . 
Then it was not she , but Margaret , who told Flora -- Ethel could not , as she said , enjoy what seemed to sadden her father . 
` It will be very pleasant , ' said she ; ` it was very kind of papa to consent . 
And , as soon as they went up-stairs , Ethel began to write down the list of prizes in her school journal , while Flora took out the best evening frocks , to study whether the crape looked fresh enough . 
He did not like to mortify Ethel by telling her his intense disgust , and he knew he was about to do what she would think a great injury by speaking to his father on the subject ; but he thought it for her real welfare , and took the first opportunity of making to his father and Margaret a most formidable description of Ethel 's black-hole . 
` Very likely , but your head is not Ethel 's , and there were twice as many people as the place was intended to hold . ' 
` You do n't know what it is , papa , or you would never let Ethel spend her life there . 
` I 'll take care of Ethel , ' said Dr. May , walking off , and leaving Norman in a state of considerable annoyance at being thus treated . 
said Norman ; ` but if he chooses to run after dirty brats , why should he take Ethel there ? ' 
` My dear Norman , you know it is all Ethel 's doing . ' 
` Yes , I know she has gone crazy after them , and given up all her Greek for it . 
` Well , but surely , Norman , it is better they should do what they can for those poor creatures , than for Ethel to learn Greek . ' 
I have no doubt he will see whether it is proper for Ethel . 
Flora , extremely anxious that Ethel should comport herself discreetly ; and Ethel full of curiosity and eagerness , the only drawback , her fears that her papa was doing what he disliked . 
She was not in the least shy , and did not think about her manner enough to be troubled by the consciousness that it had a good deal of abruptness and eagerness , and that her short sight made her awkward . 
she said , triumphantly , and , after her warm greeting , she looked with some respect at the face of the Miss May , who was so very clever . 
It certainly was not what she expected , not at all like either of the four sisters she had already seen -- brown , sallow , and with that sharp long nose , and the eager eyes , and brow a little knit by the desire to see as far as she could . 
Ethel left the talk chiefly to Flora -- there was wonder and study enough for her in the grounds and garden , and when Mrs. Larpent tried to enter into conversation with her , she let it drop two or three times , while she was peering hard at a picture , and trying to make out its subject . 
However , when they all went out to walk to Church , Ethel lighted up , and talked , admired , and asked questions in her quick , eager way , which interested Mrs. Larpent greatly . 
The governess asked after Norman , and no more was wanted to produce a volume of histories of his successes , till Flora turned as she walked before with Meta , saying , ` Why , Ethel , you are quite overwhelming Mrs. Larpent . ' 
But some civil answer convinced Ethel that what she said was interesting , and she would not be stopped in her account of their anxieties on the day of the examination . 
They found Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wilmot in the school , with a very nice well-dressed set of boys and girls , and -- but there is no need to describe the roast-beef and plum-pudding , ` the feast ate merrily , ' and Ethel was brilliantly happy waiting on the children , and so was sunny-hearted Meta . 
Ethel found a small boy looking ready to cry at an untouched slice of beef . 
She examined him whether he could cut it , and at last discovered that , as had been the case with one or two of her own brothers at the same age , meat was repugnant to him . 
In her vehement manner , she flew off to fetch him some pudding , and hurrying up , as she thought , to Mr. Charles Wilmot , who had been giving it out , she thrust her plate between him and the dish , and had begun her explanation , when she perceived it was a stranger , and she stood , utterly discomfited , not saying , ` I beg your pardon , ' but only blushing , awkward and confused , as he spoke to her , in a good-natured , hospitable manner , which showed her it must be Mr. Rivers . 
She obtained her pudding , and , turning hastily , retreated . 
` Yes , papa , Ethel , the third , the clever one . ' 
` I thought she must be one of them from her dress ; but what a difference between her and the others ! ' 
Ethel , after the awkwardness was over , thought no more of the matter , but went on in full enjoyment of the feast . 
The smiles of Meta and of the children were a pretty sight , and Ethel thought she had never seen anything so like a beneficent fairy . 
Ethel could not think how the Wilmots could have found it in their heart to regret the liberality of this sweet damsel , on whom she began to look with Norman 's enthusiastic admiration . 
There was time for a walk round the grounds , Meta doing the honours to Flora , and Ethel walking with Mrs. Larpent . 
Both pairs were very good friends , and the two sisters admired and were charmed with the beauty of the gardens and conservatories -- Ethel laying up a rich store of intelligence for Margaret ; but still she was not entirely happy ; her papa was more and more on her mind . 
He had looked dispirited at breakfast ; he had a long hard day 's work before him ; and she was increasingly uneasy at the thought that it would be a painful effort to him to join them in the evening . 
Her mind was full of it when she was conducted , with Flora , to the room where they were to dress ; and when Flora began to express her delight , her answer was only that she hoped it was not very unpleasant to papa . 
` It is not worth while to be unhappy about that , Ethel . 
How pretty she is ! ' 
` Now , Ethel , it is high time to dress . 
Ethel sighed , then began talking fast about some hints on school-keeping which she had picked up for Cocksmoor . 
Flora 's glossy braids were in full order , while Ethel was still struggling to get her plait smooth , and was extremely beholden to her sister for taking it into her own hands , and doing the best with it that its thinness and roughness permitted . 
And then Flora pinched and pulled and arranged Ethel 's frock , in vain attempts to make it sit like her own -- those sharp high bones resisted all attempts to disguise them . 
` And , Ethel , do take care . 
` I 'll try , ' said Ethel , meekly , though a good deal tormented , as Flora went on with half-a-dozen more injunctions , closed by Meta 's coming to fetch them . 
She would have liked to put Flora 's arm through her 's , but she thought it would look neglectful of Ethel ; so she only showed the way down stairs . 
Ethel forgot all her sister 's orders ; for there stood her father , and she looked most earnestly at his face . 
Ethel drew as near him as she could ; she had a sense of protection , and could open to full enjoyment when she saw him bright . 
Mr. Rivers began talking to Flora , and Dr. May , after a few pleasant words to Meta , went back to Ethel . 
He wanted her to see his favourite pictures -- he led her up to them , made her put on his spectacles to see them better , and showed her their special merits . 
Mr. Rivers and the others joined them ; Ethel said little , except a remark or two in answer to her papa , but she was very happy -- she felt that he liked to have her with him ; and Meta , too , was struck by the soundness of her few sayings , and the participation there seemed to be in all things between the father and daughter . 
At dinner Ethel went on pretty well . 
She was next to her father , and was very glad to find the dinner so grand , that no side-dish fell to her lot to be carved . 
There was a great deal of pleasant talk , such as the girls could understand , though they did not join much in it , except that now and then Dr. May turned to Ethel as a reference for names and dates . 
Flora and Meta on one side , hand in hand , calling each other by their Christian names , Mrs. Larpent and Ethel on the other . 
Flora dreaded only that Ethel was talking too much , and revealing too much in how different style they lived . 
Then came the gentlemen , Dr. May begging Mr. Rivers to show Ethel one of his prints , when Ethel stooped more than ever , as if her eyelashes were feelers , but she was in transports of delight , and her embarrassment entirely at an end in her admiration , as she exclaimed and discussed with her papa , and by her hearty appreciation made Mr. Rivers for the time forget her plainness . 
Music followed ; Flora played nicely , Meta like a well-taught girl , Ethel went on musing over the engravings . 
Ethel went home , leaning hard against her papa , talking to him of Raffaelle 's Madonnas ; and looking out at the stars , and thinking how the heavenly beauty of those faces that , in the prints she had been turning over , seemed to be connected with the glories of the dark-blue sky and glowing stars . 
` As one star differeth from another star in glory , ' murmured she ; ` that was the lesson to-day , papa ; ' and when she felt him press her hand , she knew he was thinking of that last time she had heard the lesson , when he had not been with her , and her thoughts went with his , though not another word was spoken . 
Her only fear was , that Ethel 's awkwardness might make an unfavourable impression , but , at least , she said to herself , it was anything but vulgar awkwardness . 
It seemed a comment on Ethel 's thoughts , bringing them back to the present hour . 
Dr. May walked in , met his daughter 's look of delight and surprise , spoke cheerfully to Mrs. Green , a hospital acquaintance of his , like half the rest of the country , and made her smile and courtesy by asking if she was not surprised at such doings in her house ; then looked at the children , and patted the head that looked most fit to pat , inquired who was the best scholar , and offered a penny to whoever could spell copper tea-kettle , which being done by three merry mortals , and having made him extremely popular , he offered Ethel a lift , and carried her off between him and Adams , on whom he now depended for driving him , since Richard was going to Oxford at once . 
Ethel was much concerned to lose him from Cocksmoor , and dreaded hindrances to her going thither without his escort ; but she had much trust in having her father on her side , and meant to get authority from him for the propriety of going alone with Mary . 
He lectured Ethel herself on opening the window , now that she could ; and advised Norman to go and spend an hour in the school , that he might learn how pleasant peat-smoke was -- a speech Norman did not like at all . 
He told his own story to Ethel , in the garden , not without much difficulty , so indignant were her exclamations ; and it was impossible to make her see that his father 's interference would put him in an awkward position among the boys . 
She would argue vehemently that she could not bear Mr. Wilmot to think ill of him , that it was a great shame of Dr. Hoxton , and that it was dreadful to let such a boy as Harvey Anderson go unpunished . 
That was all the comforts he gave Norman , and she walked in to pour out a furious grumbling upon Margaret . 
` Yes , ' said Ethel . 
` I used to think Harvey the best of the two , ' said Ethel . 
` Yes , I wish papa had not yielded , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
Now , do n't look furious , Ethel . 
cried Ethel , too much shocked to bring out another word . 
stammered Ethel . 
cried Ethel , recovering her utterance . 
` To be sure , ' broke out Ethel . 
Ethel was entirely consoled . 
Flora thought of the words ` téte exaltêe , ' and considered herself alone to have sober sense enough to see things in a true light -- not that she went the length of believing that Norman had any underhand motives , but she thought it very discreet in her to think a prudent father would not have been satisfied with such a desire to avoid investigation . 
Ethel wanted to hear that he declared his complete conviction of Norman 's innocence , and was disappointed to find that he did not once allude to the subject . 
She was only consoled by Margaret 's conjecture that , perhaps , he thought the head-master had been hasty , and could not venture to say so -- he saw into people 's characters , and it was notorious that it was just what Dr. Hoxton did not . 
Only Tom 's lips were quivering , and Ethel had squeezed Norman 's hand . 
` Hush , Ethel , remember what we resolved . ' 
To Ethel , especially , it is a struggle to be in charity with the Andersons . ' 
Richard and Ethel both expressing their intention of adhering to Margaret -- the latter observing bow nice it would be to get rid of everybody , and have a talk . 
` Chattering , not conversing , ' said Ethel , saucily . 
` Richard , Margaret , and Ethel , when they sit upon Cocksmoor , ' said Dr. May . 
` It is what papa is when he comes out of the council-room , added Ethel . 
I ca n't bear it ; and the worst of it is , that -- ' she added , finishing her lamentation , after the others were out at the door , ` Papa and Ethel have neither of them the least shame about it . ' 
` I have shame , ' sighed Ethel , walking across the room , disconsolately , to put a book into a shelf . 
` I wish I did not , ' said Ethel ; ` I was thinking whether I had better not make myself pay a forfeit . 
` Give them to the Ladies ' Committee , ' said Ethel , making a face . 
asked Ethel . 
` It will be one voice , ' said Ethel ; ` but oh ! 
` My dear Ethel do n't frown so horribly , or it will spoil your eloquence , ' said Margaret . 
-- puzzled Richard -- making Margaret laugh -- but Ethel was too much in earnest for amusement . 
she continued , ` they will not know them well enough to understand them when they are old enough ! ' 
I want to know , indeed , Ethel . ' 
` I never heard of a little bit of a sparklet before , ' said Richard , ` but I think I do see what Ethel means ; and it is like what I heard and liked in a University sermon some Sundays ago , saying that these lessons and holy words were to be impressed on us here from infancy on earth , that we might be always unravelling their meaning , and learn it fully at last -- where we hope to be . ' 
exclaimed Margaret , delighted ; ` but , ' after a pause , ` I am afraid the Ladies ' Committee might not enter into it in plain English , far less in Ethel 's language . ' 
said Ethel . 
` She has power over people , and can influence them . 
O Ritchie , do n't persuade papa out of letting her go . ' 
` I have not heard him say , but he was very much vexed about the prayers , ' said Ethel . 
` Pretty well , on the whole , ' said Ethel , ` but , oh dear ! 
said Ethel ; ` and going to some heathenish place again ! 
If I could only have seen her first , and begged her to go to Church and say her prayers . 
If I only knew where she is gone ! 
` Mr. Wilmot says it is bread cast on the waters , ' said Margaret -- ` he was very kind in consoling Ethel , who came home quite in despair . ' 
` Yes , he said it was one of the trials , ' said Ethel , ` and that it might be better for Una as well as for me . 
And I am trying to care for the rest still , but I can not yet as I did for her . 
` Why , Ethel ! ' 
Margaret could have said that Ethel had come in positively crying with vexation , but with no diminution of the spirit of perseverance . 
she continued . 
Here is the account-book -- ' ` How neatly you have kept it , Ethel . ' 
` I looked in the paper the other day , and saw that a chapel had been built for nine hundred pounds , ' said Ethel . 
And a Church has to be endowed as well as built , you know , Ethel . ' 
said Richard , as Ethel dashed away . 
` Is not she ? ' 
` And yet when we look at poor dear Ethel , and her queer ungainly ways , and think of her building a Church ! ' 
Ethel came back , having , of course , mislaid her sketch , and , much vexed , wished to know if it ought to cause her first forfeit , but Margaret thought these should not begin till the date of the agreement , and the three resumed the Cocksmoor discussion . 
Ethel diligently lifted it up ; and while Norman exclaimed at her tidiness , Margaret told how a new leaf was to be turned , and of her voluntary forfeits . 
A great deal of merriment had come home with Harry , who never was grave for ten minutes without a strong reaction , and distracted the house with his noise and his antics , in proportion , as it sometimes seemed , to the spaces of serious thought and reading spent in the study , where Dr. May did his best to supply Mr. Ramsden 's insufficient attention to his Confirmation candidates , by giving an hour every day to Norman , Ethel , and Harry . 
` Flora and Blanche did , ' said Ethel ; ` I thought you did not want me to go , and I had not time . 
and Ethel shook her head in disgust . 
She has never been out ! ' 
` I should not have seen her , ' said Ethel , ` for she was not well enough to let us in . ' 
` I think I should like the rule to be made in earnest , ' said Ethel . 
` I know , ' said Ethel . 
whispered Ethel . 
and up went Harry 's book of decimals to the ceiling , coming down upon a candle , which would have been overturned on Ethel 's work , if it had not been dexterously caught by Richard . 
indignantly cried Ethel and Flora , ` see what you have done ; ' and the Doctor 's voice called to order , but Harry could not heed . 
''' Ethel could not help looking at Margaret , but was ashamed of her impertinence , and coloured violently , whereas her sister did not colour at all , and Norman , looking down , wondered whether Alan would make the voyage . 
While a tumultuous party were pursuing her with it to claim the penny , and Richard was conveying Margaret up-stairs , Ethel found an opportunity of asking her father if he were not very glad of Mr. Ernescliffe 's good fortune . 
She had no answer but a sigh , and a look that made her blush for having ventured so far . 
She was so much persuaded that great events must ensue , that , all the next day , she listened to every ring of the bell , and when one at last was followed by a light , though , to her ears , manly sounding tread , she looked up flushing with expectation . 
Behold , she was disappointed . 
` Miss Walkingham ' was announced , and she rose surprised , for the lady in question had only come to Stoneborough for a couple of days with an infirm mother , who , having known Dr. May in old times , had made it her especial request that he would let her see his daughters . 
` Miss Walkingham , ' said Ethel , ` but you wo n't understand . 
She seemed half wild ! 
she had none , ' said Flora . 
said Ethel . 
` You do n't think she could put that into her pocket , ' said Ethel , laughing as she held it up . 
Miss Winter said that she saw the old lady helped into the carriage , as she passed . ' 
said Ethel , hastily ; ` do n't you see that Margaret is terribly frightened . 
` Did you know it , Ethel ? ' 
` I only guessed it this moment , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` He had nobody to teach him but Mary , ' said Ethel . 
Hasty and eager inquiries broke out from Flora and Ethel . 
` They said Flora was thought pretty , but -- and as to Ethel , now , how do you think you came off , Unready ? ' 
They called Ethel very odd , poor girl . ' 
` I do n't mind , ' said Ethel . 
` I hope they said something of the sailor brother , ' said Ethel . 
In the hall , he was instantly beset by Ethel and Mary , the former exclaiming , ` Papa ! 
Ethel 's mode of pleading was unfortunate ; the ` very foolish of Margaret ' were the very words to displease . 
` I say nothing to you , Mary , you knew no better ; but , to see you , Ethel , first encouraging him in his impertinence , and terrifying Margaret so , that I dare say she may be a week getting over it , and now defending him , and calling her silly , is unbearable . 
An hour had passed away , when Richard knocked at Ethel 's door to tell her that tea was ready . 
` I have a great mind not to go down , ' said Ethel , as he looked in , and saw her seated with a book . 
` Hush , Ethel ! ' 
It is unkind , and unjust , and -- ' ` Ethel , you will be sorry -- ' ` Papa will be sorry , ' continued Ethel , disregarding the caution . 
Richard was somewhat in difficulties how to answer , but at that moment Harry 's door , which was next , was slightly opened -- and his voice said , ` Go down , Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` The fault was in our never heeding her when we were so eager to hear Harry 's story , ' said Ethel . 
` Go down , Ethel , ' repeated Harry . 
The voice was very much troubled , and it brought back that burning sensation of indignant tears to Ethel 's eyes . 
Ethel groaned , but made no opposition to following her brother down to tea . 
Ethel had began to hope for the warm re-action she had so often known after a hasty fit , but it did not readily come ; Harry was boy instead of girl -- the fault and its consequence had been more serious -- and the anxiety for the future was greater . 
Ethel grieved over the words she had yesterday spoken in haste of her father and sister ; Mary knew herself to have been an accomplice in the joke , and Norman blamed himself for not having taken the trouble to perceive that Harry had not been talking rhodomontade , when he had communicated ` his capital scheme ' the previous morning . 
Flora consoled herself by observing that , as he was so young , no one need know it , nor miss him ; and Ethel , with a trembling , almost sobbing voice , enumerated all Harry 's excellencies , his perfect truth , his kindness , his generosity , his flashes of intense feeling -- declared that nobody ought to be Confirmed if he were not , and begged and entreated that Mr. Wilmot might be written to , and consulted . 
She would almost have done so herself , if Richard had not shown her that it would be undutiful . 
Ethel and Norman walked together in the twilight , in deep lamentation over their brother 's deprivation , which seemed especially to humble them ; ` for , ' said Norman , ` I am sure no one can be more resolved on doing right than July , and he has got through school better than I did . ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel ; ` if we do n't get into his sort of scrape , it is only that we are older , not better . 
said Ethel . 
Ethel was gravely putting on her walking-dress , when she heard her father 's voice calling Harry , and she started with a joyful hope . 
There , indeed , when she came down stairs , stood Harry , his cap in his hand , and his face serious , but with a look on it that had as much subdued joy , as awe . 
` Yes , papa wrote to ask what Mr. Wilmot thought , and he said -- ' Harry broke off , as his father advanced , and gave her the letter itself to read . 
Norman and Ethel were too happy for words , as they went arm in arm along the street , leaving their dear sailor to be leant on by his father . 
Mr. Rivers had asked that his daughter might be with Miss May , and Ethel had therefore to be called for in the Abbotstoke carriage , quite contrary to her wishes , as she had set her heart on the walk to Church with her father and brothers . 
` O Margaret , ' said Flora , after putting her sister into the carriage , ` I wish we had put Ethel into a veil ! 
and Ethel , in her little white cap , looks as if she might be Lucy Taylor , only not so pretty . ' 
` Then I am glad Ethel has not one , ' said Flora . 
Only Ethel , as she met Richard on the stairs , said , ` Ritchie , do you know what the Bishop 's text was ? 
` I thought it might be a voice to me , ' said Ethel ; ` besides what it says to all , about our Christian course . 
And for our own Ethel , she looked as if she was promising on and on , straight into eternity . 
I heard her `` I do , '' dear child , and it was in such a tone as if she meant to be ever doing . ' 
However , the Roman camp had long been an object of their desires , and Margaret was glad that the last day should have a brilliancy , so she would not hear of anyone remaining to keep her company , talked of the profit she should gain by a leisure day , and took ardent interest in everyone 's preparations and expectations , in Ethel 's researches into county histories and classical dictionaries , Flora 's sketching intentions , Norman 's promises of campanula glomerata , and a secret whispered into her ear by Mary and Harry . 
By-and-by she joined Ethel , and Norman was summoned to help them to trace out the old lines of encampment , ditch , rampart , and gates -- happy work on those slopes of fresh turf , embroidered with every minute blossom of the moor -- thyme , birdsfoot , eyebright , and dwarf purple thistle , buzzed and hummed over by busy , blacktailed , yellow-banded dumbledores , the breezy wind blowing softly in their faces , and the expanse of country-wooded hill , verdant pasture , amber harvest-field , winding river , smoke-canopied town , and brown moor , melting greyly away to the mountain heads . 
Now in sun , now in shade , the bright young antiquaries surveyed the old banks , and talked wisely of vallum and fossa , of legion and cohort , of Agricola and Suetonius , and discussed the delightful probability , that this might have been raised in the war with Caractacus , whence , argued Ethel , since Caractacus was certainly Arviragus , it must have been the very spot where Imogen met Posthumus again . 
Then followed the suggestion that the mound in the middle was a good deal like an ancient tomb , where , as Blanche interposed with some of the lore lately caught from Ethel 's studies , ` they used to bury their tears in wheelbarrows , ' while Norman observed it was the more probable , as fair Fidele never was buried at all . 
While Norman set to work as pioneer , some skipped about in wild ecstasy , and Ethel knelt down to peer into the hole . 
` Well , ' said Ethel , ` you know , Norman , I always told you that the children 's pots and pans in the clay ditch were very like Roman pottery . ' 
Flora and Ethel admired and speculated till there was a fresh , and still more exciting discovery -- a coin , actually a medal , with the head of an emperor upon it -- not a doubt of his high nose being Roman . 
Ethel was resolved that he should be Claudius , and began decyphering the defaced inscription THVRVS . 
She tried Claudius 's whole torrent of names , and , at last , made it into a contraction of Tiberius , which highly satisfied her . 
Then Meta , in her turn , read D. V. X. , which , as Ethel said , was all she could wish -- of course it was dux et imperator , and Harry muttered into Norman 's ear , ` ducks and geese ! ' 
I have it , Venus Victrix , ' said Ethel , ` the ancestral Venus ! 
there she is on the other side , crowning Claudius . ' 
But Ethel was sure that could not be , because there was no dipthong ; and a fresh theory was just being started , when Blanche 's head was thrust in to know what made them all so busy . 
` Why , Ethel , what are you doing with Harry 's old medal of the Duke of Wellington ? ' 
Poor Meta and Ethel , what a downfall ! 
Flora acted the grown-up lady with Mrs. Wilmot , and Meta found herself sitting by Ethel , asking her a great many questions about Margaret , and her home , and what it could be like to be one of such a numerous family . 
Blunt as Ethel was , her heartiness of manner gave a sense of real progress in friendship . 
Their Confirmation vows seemed to make a link , and Meta 's unfeigned enthusiasm for the Doctor was the sure road to Ethel 's heart . 
She was soon telling how glad Margaret was that he had been drawn into taking pleasure in to-day 's scheme , since , not only were his spirits tried by the approach of Harry 's departure , but he had , within the last few days , been made very sad by reading and answering Aunt Flora 's first letter on the news of last October 's misfortune . 
` My aunt in New Zealand , ' explained Ethel . 
` I never heard of her ! ' 
she does write such charming long letters ! ' 
` Is she Dr. May 's sister ? ' 
She is dear mamma 's sister . 
I do n't remember her , for she went out when I was a baby , but Richard and Margaret were so fond of her . 
` I fancy Aunt Flora has done a good deal that may be called missionary work , ' said Ethel , ` teaching the Maori women and girls . 
They call her mother , and she has quite a doctor 's shop for them , and tries hard to teach them to take proper care of their poor little children , when they are ill -- and she cuts out clothes for the whole pah , that is , the village . ' 
Meta asked ravenously for more details , and when she had pretty well exhausted Ethel 's stock , she said , ` How nice it must be ! 
Ethel , did you ever read the `` Faithful Little Girl ? 
said Ethel . 
she added , laughing . 
` Well , but -- ' said Ethel , ` it is the state of life in which you are placed . ' 
` I thought you had them , ' said Ethel . 
` It was so nice to think of her being with the poor mother , and I was quite interested in managing for myself ; besides , you know , it was just a proof how one learns to be selfish , that it had never occurred to me that I ought to spare her . ' 
` Stay , ' said Ethel , ` if the ill-temper was in you , you would only be the crosser for being indulged -- at least , so books say . 
Ethel screwed up her face , as if the eyes of her mind were pursuing some thought almost beyond her . 
` If our will and our duty run the same , ' she said , ` that ca n't be wrong . 
but Ethel , ' cried Meta , distressed , ` that is putting it too high . 
And Ethel , ' she added , in a low voice , as the tears came into her eyes , ` do n't you remember last Sunday ? 
Ethel felt ashamed , as she heard of warmer feelings than her own had been , expressed in that lowered trembling voice , and she sought for the answer that would only come to her mind in sense , not at first in words . 
` Discipline , ' said she , ` would not that show the willingness to have the part ? 
It is in the Prayer-book , ' said Ethel . 
` Let us run and meet him , ' said Ethel . 
` No , papa , we have been having a talk , ' said Ethel . 
Meta had not bargained for this , but she was very much in earnest , and there was nothing formidable in Dr. May , so she assented . 
` Meta is longing to be at work -- she thinks she is of no use , ' said Ethel -- ` she says she never does anything but please herself . ' 
` And she thinks it can not be safe or right , ' added Ethel , ` to live that happy bright life , as if people without care or trouble could not be living as Christians are meant to live . 
` O , no , ' said Ethel . 
` Ethel , they sang that Psalm the first Sunday I brought your mamma home ! ' 
Perhaps the little modes of secret discipline , of which Ethel had spoken , might be the true means of clasping the staff -- perhaps she had been impatient , and wanting in humility in craving for the strife , when her armour was scarce put on . 
Ethel -- ' ` I shall blunder , I forewarn you , ' said Ethel , ` but this is mine . 
One day , when he was out hunting in a forest , a white hind came and ran before him , till she guided him to a castle , and there he found a lady , all dressed in white , with a beamy crown on her head , and so nobly beautiful , that he fell in love with her at once , and was only sorry to see another prince who was come to her palace too . 
She told them her name was Gloria , and that she had had many suitors , but the choice did not depend on herself -- she could only be won by him who deserved her , and for three years they were to be on their probation , trying for her . 
''' Ethel 's language had become more flowing as she grew more eager in the tale , and they all listened with suspended interest . 
Norman asked where she got the story . 
` Because I thought , ' said Ethel , ` that glory could not properly belong to anyone here , and if he was once conscious of it , it would be all spoilt . 
` My story will not be as long as Ethel 's , ' said the Doctor . 
crossed Ethel 's mind , but Margaret was alone , flushed , and holding out her hands . 
Harry was vociferously telling his version of the story to Ethel and Mary . 
cried Mary 's voice in the first pause , and , Margaret asking where he was , he suddenly turned round , recollected himself , and found it was not the back of the chair that he had been squeezing , blushed intensely , but made no attempt at apology , for indeed he could not speak -- he only leant down over Margaret , to receive her heartfelt embrace ; and , as he stood up again , his father laid his hand on his shoulder , ` My boy , I am glad -- ' but the words were broken , and , as if neither could bear more , Norman hastily left the room , Ethel rushing after him . 
The world was somewhat flat after the loss of Harry -- that element of riot and fun -- Aubrey was always playing at ` poor Harry sailing away , ' Mary looked staid and sober , and Norman was still graver , and more devoted to books , while Ethel gave herself up more completely to the thickening troubles of Cocksmoor . 
Ethel was at first vehement in her defence ; then when stronger evidence was adduced of the woman 's dishonesty , she was dreadfully shocked , and wanted to give up all connexion with her , and in both moods was equally displeased with Richard for pausing , and not going all lengths with her . 
It was a great distress to Ethel -- it haunted her night and day -- she lay awake pondering on the vain hopes for her poor children , and slept to dream of the angry faces and rude accusations . 
This doubt put Ethel into an agony . 
Though she had lately been declaring that it made her very unhappy to go -- she could not bear the sight of Mrs. Green , and that she knew all her efforts were vain while the poor children had such homes ; she now only implored to be allowed to go on ; she said that the badness of the people only made it more needful to do their utmost for them -- there were no end to the arguments that she poured forth upon her ever kind listener , Margaret . 
` Yes , dear Ethel , yes , but pray be clam ; I know papa and Mr. Wilmot would not put a stop to it , if they could possibly help it , but if it is not proper -- ' ` Proper ! 
` Ethel , you and I can not judge of these things -- you must leave them to our elders -- ' ` And men always are so fanciful about ladies -- ' ` Indeed , if you speak in that way , I shall think it is really hurting you . ' 
` I did not mean it , dear Margaret , ' said Ethel , ` but if you knew what I feel for poor Cocksmoor , you would not wonder that I can not bear it . ' 
` Perhaps it is for my fault , ' said Ethel . 
Margaret drew her down close to her , and whispered , ` Trust them , Ethel dear . 
` If I have been too neglectful of home , too vain of persevering when no one but Richard-would , ' sighed Ethel . 
I will try to be patient , ' sobbed Ethel ; ` I know to be wayward and set on it would only hurt . 
` Well , Ethel ! 
Mr. Ernes -- ' He held up his finger , drew her into the study , and shut the door . 
She was checked and alarmed , but she could not help asking , ` Is he here ? ' 
asked Ethel . 
I must not have her agitated till she has had her dinner in peace , and the house is quiet . 
You know she can not run away to her room as you would . ' 
` cried Ethel , breathlessly ; and , perceiving the affirmative , added , ` but why did he wait so long ? ' 
` He wished to see his way through his affairs , and also wanted to hear of her from Harry . 
He rested his forehead on his hands , and Ethel stood aghast at his unexpected reception of the addresses for which she had so long hoped . 
She did not venture to speak , and presently he roused himself as the dinner-bell rang . 
It was not flattering to be thus cleared out of the way , especially when full of excited curiosity , but any such sensation was quite overborne by sympathy in his great anxiety , and Ethel 's only question was , ` Had not Flora better stay , to keep off company ? ' 
` No , no , ' said Dr. May , impatiently , ` the fewer the better ; ' and hastily passing her , he dashed up to his room , nearly running over the nursery procession , and , in a very few seconds , was seated at table , eating and speaking by snatches , and swallowing endless draughts of cold water . 
` O yes , Flora , you must come , ' said Ethel , ` we want you . ' 
` You must , ' reiterated Ethel . 
` If you would only come up-stairs , ' implored Ethel , at the door , ` I have something to tell you alone . ' 
Her movements were quickened however by her father , who , finding her with Margaret in the drawing-room , ordered her up-stairs in a peremptory manner , which she resented , as treating her like a child , and therefore proceeded in no amiable mood to the room , where Ethel awaited her in wild tumultuous impatienence . 
` Well , Ethel , what is this grand secret ? ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , beginning to perceive the secret of her displeasure , ` but only because I was the first person he met ; and Norman guessed it long ago . 
Ethel looked horrified by the assertion of independence , but Richard called her from below , and with one more fruitless entreaty , she ran down stairs . 
Richard had been hearing all from his father , and it was comfortable to talk the matter over with him , and hear explained the anxiety which frightened her , while she scarcely comprehended it ; how Dr. May could not feel certain whether it was right or expedient to promote an engagement which must depend on health so uncertain as poor Margaret 's , and how he dreaded the effect on the happiness of both . 
Ethel 's romance seemed to be turning to melancholy , and she walked on gravely and thoughtfully , though repeating that there could be no doubt of Margaret 's perfect recovery by the time of the return from the voyage . 
Ethel thought it quite provoking in her brother to accede to Mary 's entreaties that they should go and call on this promising importation . 
At another time , the thought of Charity Elwood would have engrossed Ethel 's whole mind , now she could hardly attend , and kept looking eagerly at Richard as he talked endlessly with the good mother . 
cried Ethel . 
could she mean it ? ' 
` She thought she meant it , poor dear , and repeated such things again and again ; but when I asked whether I should send him away without seeing her , she cried more than ever , and said , ` You are tempting me ! 
she surely has seen him ! ' 
` I told her that I would be the last person to wish to tempt her to selfishness , but that I did not think that either could be easy in settling such a matter through a third person . ' 
` It would have been very unkind , ' said Ethel ; ` I wonder she did not think so . ' 
` She did at last . 
I saw it could not be otherwise , and she said , poor darling , that when he had seen her , he would know the impossibility ; but she was so agitated , that I did not know how it could be . ' 
` Has she ? ' 
` Aye , I told him not to stay too long , and left him under the tulip-tree with her . 
I found her much more composed -- he was so gentle and considerate . 
Besides , he has convinced her now that affection brings him , not mere generosity , as she fancied . ' 
cried Ethel , joyously . 
She has owned that if -- if she were in health -- but that is all , and he is transported with having gained so much ! 
So far , I trust , it is better for them to know each other 's minds , but how it is to be -- ' ` But , papa , you know Sir Matthew Fleet said she was sure to get well ; and in three years ' time -- ' ` Yes ! 
Ethel could find no words of comfort in the bewildered glimpse at his sorrow and agitation . 
At the door , Dr. May asked for Flora , and Ethel explained . 
If Flora had obtruded herself , he would have been irritated , but , as it was , he had no time to observe the disobedience , and saying that he hoped she was with Margaret , sent Ethel into the drawing-room . 
Flora was not there , only Margaret lay on her sofa , and Ethel hesitated , shy , curious , and alarmed ; but , as she approached , she was relieved to see the blue eyes more serene even than usual , while a glow of colour spread over her face , making her like the blooming Margaret of old times ; her expression was full of peace , but became somewhat amused at Ethel 's timid , awkward pauses , as she held out her hands , and said , ` Come , dear Ethel . ' 
And Ethel was drawn into her sister 's bosom . 
Presently she drew back , gazed at her sister inquiringly , and said in an odd , doubtful voice , ` Then you are glad ? ' 
again said Ethel ; ` I thought it was making everybody unhappy . ' 
` I do n't believe I could be that , now he has come , now I know ; ' and her voice trembled . 
` There must be doubt and uncertainty , ' she added , ` but I can not dwell on them just yet . 
said Ethel , wistfully . 
he is so kind , and so unselfish , and so beautifully gentle -- and to think of his still caring -- but there , dear Ethel , I am not going to cry -- do call papa , or he will think me foolish again . 
` Yes , at tea-time -- so run , dear Ethel , and tell Jane to get his room ready . ' 
This message quickened Ethel , and after giving it , and reporting consolingly to her father , she went up to Flora , who had been a voluntary prisoner up-stairs all this time , and was not peculiarly gratified at such tidings coming only through the medium of Ethel . 
She had before been sensible that , superior in discretion and effectiveness as she was acknowledged to be , she did not share so much of the confidence and sympathy as some of the others , and she felt mortified and injured , though in this case it was entirely her own fault . 
The sense of alienation grew upon her . 
She dressed quickly , and hurried down , that she might see Margaret alone , but the room was already prepared for tea , and the children were fast assembling . 
Ethel came down a few minutes after , and found Blanche claiming Alan Ernescliffe as her lawful property , dancing round him , chattering , and looking injured if he addressed a word to anyone else . 
was a speculation which had , more than once , occupied Ethel , and when she had satisfied herself that her father was at ease , she began to study it , as soon as a shamefaced consciousness would allow her , after Alan 's warm shake of the hand . 
After the storm of the day , the sky seemed quite clear , and Ethel could not see that being lovers made much difference -- to be sure papa displeased Blanche , by calling her away to his side , when she would squeeze her chair in between Alan 's and the sofa ; and Alan took all the waiting on Margaret exclusively to himself . 
Margaret and Ethel especially delighted in the look of enjoyment with which their father sat down to enter on the evening 's conversation after the day 's work ; and Flora was well-pleased that Mrs. Hoxton should find Alan in the drawing-room , and ask afterwards about his estate ; and that Meta Rivers , after being certified that this was their Mr. Ernescliffe , pronounced that her papa thought him particularly pleasing and gentlemanlike . 
Dr. May could not conceal his trouble , and rendered Ethel almost as unhappy as himself , after each conversation with her , though her hopes usually sprang up again , and she had a happy conviction that this was only the second volume of the novel . 
After the tossings of uncertainty , it was a positive relief to refer the question to some external voice , and only Ethel and Norman expressed strong dislike to Sir Matthew becoming the arbitrer of Margaret 's fate , and were scarcely pacified by Dr. May 's assurance , that he had not revealed the occasion of his inquiry . 
Ethel used to watch them , and think how beautiful their countenances were , and talk them over with her father , who was quite happy about them now . 
She gave assistance , which Alan never once called unhandy , to all his contrivances , and often floundered in upon his conferences with Margaret , in a way that would have been very provoking , if she had not always blushed and looked so excessively discomfited , that they had only to laugh and reassure her . 
Alan was struck by finding that the casual words spoken on the way from Cocksmoor had been so strenuously acted on , and he brought on himself a whole torrent of Ethel 's confused narratives , which Richard and Flora would fain have checked ; but Margaret let them continue , as she saw him a willing listener , and was grateful to him for comprehending the ardent girl . 
He declared himself to have a share in the matter , reminding Ethel of her appeal to him to bind himself to the service of Cocksmoor . 
he sent a sovereign at once , to aid in a case of the sudden death of a pig ; and when securely established in his brotherly right , he begged Ethel to let him know what would help her most . 
She stood colouring , twisting her hands , and wondering what to say , whereupon he relieved her by a proposal to leave an order for ten pounds , to be yearly paid into her hands , as a fixed income for her school . 
A thousand a year could hardly have been so much to Ethel . 
said Alan , turning to Margaret , as Ethel frantically burst out of the room ; ` perhaps I should have asked leave ? ' 
` It is the very kindest thing you could have done by dear Ethel ! 
She will be at peace now , when anything hinders her from going to Cocksmoor . ' 
` I wonder , ' said Alan , musing , ` whether we shall ever be able to help her more substantially . 
` It is a long way off , ' he said , sadly ; ` and perhaps her force of perseverance will have prevailed alone . ' 
` I suppose I must not tell her , even as a vision . ' 
I would not let these vague dreams interfere with her resolute work ; but , Margaret , what a vision it is ! 
And there shall be Ethel 's sharp face full of indescribable things as she marshals her children , and Richard shall be Curate , and read in his steady soft tone , and your father shall look sunny with his boys around him , and you -- ' ` Oh ! 
Ethel never knew what passed in the drawing-room , whence everyone was carefully excluded . 
The other farewells were hurried ; Alan seemed voiceless , only nodding in reply to Mary 's vociferous messages to Harry , and huskily whispering to Ethel , ` Good luck to Cocksmoor ! ' 
Ethel had a gold chain and eye-glass , which , it was hoped , might cure her of frowning and stooping , though her various ways of dangling her new possession , caused her to be so much teazed by Flora and Norman , that , but for regard to Margaret 's feelings , she would not have worn it for three days . 
Ethel had never found any lack of sympathy in her for her Cocksmoor pursuits ; but the change now showed , that where once Margaret had been interested , merely as a kind sister , she now had a personal concern , and she threw herself into all that related to it as her own chief interest and pursuit -- becoming the foremost in devising plans , and arranging the best means of using Mr. Ernescliffe 's benefaction . 
said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
With these Cocksmoor could dispense at present ; Cherry was humbly gratified , and her parents delighted with the honour and profit ; there was a kitchen which afforded great facilities , and Richard and his carpenter managed the fitting to admiration ; Margaret devised all manner of useful arrangements , settled matters with great earnestness , saw Cherry frequently , discussed plans , and learnt the history and character of each child , as thoroughly as Ethel herself . 
Mr. Ramsden himself came to the opening of the school , and said so much of the obligations of Cocksmoor to the young ladies , that Ethel would not have known which way to look , if Flora had not kindly borne the brunt of his compliments . 
Everyone was pleased , except Mrs. Green , who took upon herself to set about various malicious reports of Cherry Elwood ; but nobody cared for them , except Mrs. Elwood , who flew into such passions , that Ethel was quite disappointed in her , though not in Cherry , who meekly tried to silence her mother , begged the young ladies not to be vexed , and showed a quiet dignity that soon made the shafts of slander fall inoffensively . 
The order and obedience that Ethel could not gain in six months , seemed impressed in six days by Cherry ; the neat work made her popular with the mothers , her firm gentleness won the hearts of the children , and the kitchen was filled not only with boys and girls from the quarry , but with some little ones from outlying cottages of Fordholm and Abbotstoke , and there was even a smart little farmer , who had been unbearable at home . 
Margaret 's unsuccessful Bath chair was lent to Cherry , and in it her scholars drew her to Stoneborough every Sunday , and slowly began to redeem their character with the ladies , who began to lose the habit of shrinking out of their way -- the Stoneborough children did so instead ; and Flora and Ethel were always bringing home stories of injustice to their scholars , fancied or real , and of triumphs in their having excelled any national school girl . 
The most stupid children at Cocksmoor always seemed to them wise in comparison with the Stoneborough girls , and the Sunday-school might have become to Ethel a school of rivalry , if Richard had not opened her eyes by a quiet observation , that the town girls seemed to fare as ill with her , as the Cocksmoor girls did with the town ladies . 
Then she caught herself up , tried to be candid , and found that she was not always impartial in her judgments . 
Cherry did not so bring forward her scholars , that Ethel could have many triumphs of this dangerous kind . 
Indeed , Ethel was often vexed with her ; for though she taught needlework admirably , and enforced correct reading , and reverent repetition , her strong provincial dialect was a stumbling-block ; she could not put questions without book , and nothing would teach her Ethel 's rational system of arithmetic . 
That she was a capital dame , and made the children very good , was allowed ; but now and then , when mortified by hearing what was done at Stoneborough , Fordholm , or Abbotstoke , Ethel would make vigorous efforts , which resulted only in her coming home fuming at Cherry 's ` outrageous dullness . ' 
Ethel would have thought she did not feel , but Margaret knew better . 
` Papa is not so very fond of dining at Dr. Hoxton 's , ' said Ethel . 
cried Ethel . 
` Hush , Ethel ! 
said Ethel , in vexation , though he gave her a pinch to show it was all in good humour , while he went on , ` I am glad to hear they do leave him to himself in a corner . 
Ethel was displeased , and began her defence : ` Papa ! 
I wish -- ' and there she checked herself . 
cried Ethel . 
if you knew , papa -- ' began Ethel . 
Two or three days after , as Ethel was going to the school-room after breakfast , Dr. May beckoned her back to the dining-room , and , with his merry look of significance , said , ` Well , ma'am , I have found out your mystery ! ' 
You know , ' pleaded Ethel , ` it is not ingratitude or elation , but it is , somehow , not nice to be treated as he is , set apart from the rest . ' 
cried Ethel . 
` I can not tell , Ethel . 
` Nor I , ' said Ethel ; ` he never seems to say anything he can help , and goes after Norman without talking to anyone else . ' 
asked Ethel . 
We shall have a fall yet , Ethel . 
` But we shall still have the spirit that made him try , ' said Ethel , ` and that is the thing . ' 
and he dashed off to his work , while Ethel stood laughing . 
` Papa was so very kind , ' said Norman , tremulously , when Ethel followed him to his room , to congratulate him on having gained his father 's assent , of which he had been more in doubt than she . 
` Take my word for it , Ethel , Tom will surprise you all . 
I should not so much dislike Margaret 's knowing , but I wo n't have Flora know -- mind that , Ethel , ' he said , with disproportionate vehemence . 
` I am sure I did not , ' said Ethel , in a mortified voice . 
exclaimed Ethel . 
she cried , vehemently . 
A brotherly home-truth followed : ` Nobody asked you , sir , she said ! ' 
` I know , ' said Ethel , not in the least offended , ` I am very ugly , and very awkward , but I do n't care . 
Ethel squeezed up her eyes , curled up her nose , showed her teeth in a horrible grimace , and made a sort of snarl : ` Yah ! 
and then , with another good-night , ran to her own room . 
He was not conscious of any change , and , indeed , it hardly amounted to a change , and yet Margaret , lying inactive and thoughtful , began to observe that the fullness of his confidence was passing to Ethel . 
Now and then it would appear that he fancied he had told Margaret little matters , when he had really told them to Ethel -- and it was Ethel who would linger with him in the drawing-room after the others had gone up at night , or who would be late at the morning 's reading , and disarm Miss Winter , by pleading that papa had been talking to her . 
The secret they shared together was , of course , the origin of much of this ; but also Ethel was now more entirely the Doctor 's own than Margaret could be after her engagement ; and there was a likeness of mind between the father and daughter that could not but develop more in this year , that in all Ethel 's life , when she had made the most rapid progress . 
Perhaps , too , the Doctor looked on Margaret rather as the authority and mistress of his house , while Ethel was more of a playfellow ; and thus , without either having the least suspicion that the one sister was taking the place of the other , and without any actual neglect of Margaret , Ethel was his chief companion . 
said Margaret , one day , when he had rushed in at the dinner-hour , asking for his father , and , when he could not find him , shouting out for Ethel . 
Ethel ! ' 
-- stepping to the door , and calling in her sister , who came from the street door , her hair blowing about with the wind . 
` Only to know whether papa had left a note for Dr. Hoxton , ' said Ethel , looking very confused and very merry . 
` Now do n't be absurd , Ethel -- I hate mysteries . ' 
` Last time I had a secret , you would not believe it , ' said Ethel , laughing . 
` Because I was desired not , ' said Ethel . 
` You will hear it soon enough , ' and she capered a little . 
` Let her alone , Flora , ' said Margaret . 
` If she is desired to be silent , there is nothing to be said , ' replied Flora , sitting down again , while Ethel ran away to guard her secret . 
` I can not imagine why Ethel is always making mysteries ! ' 
` She can not help other people having confidence in her , ' said Margaret , gently . 
` Ethel is a very superior person , ' said Margaret , with half a sigh . 
` As to that , Ethel is often very ridiculous and silly . ' 
` She is improving every day ; and you know dear mamma always thought her the finest character amongst us . ' 
` I like it -- when -- when I think of papa , and of his dear , noble Ethel . 
` Only , Flora , ' she said , ` pray do not say one word of this , on any account , to Ethel . 
She is so happy with papa , and I would not , for anything , have her think I feel neglected , or had any jealousy . ' 
Now I , who certainly have the best right , and a great deal more practical sense -- ' Flora took Margaret 's advice , and did not reproach Ethel , for a little reflection convinced her that she should make a silly figure in so doing , and she did not like altercations . 
It was the same evening that Norman came in from school with his hands full of papers , and , with one voice , his father and Ethel exclaimed , ` You have them ? ' 
` Tell them , ' whispered Norman , a good deal out of countenance , as he leant over Ethel , and quitted the room . 
Ethel cried , ` Now then ! ' 
and looked at her father , while Blanche and Mary reiterated inquiries -- marriage , and going to sea , being the only events that , in their imagination , the world could furnish . 
Ethel slipped away to her brother , who was in his own room , surrounded with books , flushed and anxious , and trying to glance over each subject on which he felt himself weak . 
cried Ethel , in consternation . 
` I tell you , Ethel , you know nothing about it . 
So they went on , Ethel doing her best to help and encourage , and Norman in an excited state of restless despair , which drove away half his senses and recollection , and his ideas of the superior powers of public school-boys magnifying every moment . 
said Ethel . 
pleaded Ethel , who could not bear to see him pained . 
Again Ethel made an exclamation of entreaty . 
The Doctor only further bade him good night , with a whispered blessing , and , taking Ethel by the hand , drew her away . 
So , commending Tom 's lessons to Ethel , and hearing , but not marking , countless messages to Richard , he set forth upon his emprise , while his anxiety seemed to remain as a legacy for those at home . 
Margaret was the better companion for him now , attaching less intensity of interest to Norman 's success , than did Ethel ; she was the more able to compose him , and cheer his hopes . 
I do n't know , ' said Ethel . 
He says he wants no girls , ' said Ethel , laughing . 
` Very funny , I should think , ' said Ethel , ` judging by the verses I could see . ' 
muttered Tom in his throat , and well he might , for two or three voices cried out that was too bad , and that it was all his own fault , for not accepting Ethel 's help . 
As soon as the books were shut , she ran off , and a few words passed among the elder ones about the truant -- Flora opining that the Andersons had led him away ; Ethel suggesting that his gloom must arise from his not being well ; and Margaret looking wistfully at Norman , and saying she feared they had judged much amiss last spring . 
Ethel , especially , mourned the loss to Cocksmoor , and , for though hers had been the executive part , his had been the head , and he was almost equally grieved to go from the newly-begun work . 
Ethel said it was a change from Horrid-locks to Harfagre ; Margaret said little , but like her father , she blessed Norman in her heart for having given back the boy to his father 's confidence , and saved him so far from the terrible course of deceit and corruption . 
Nevertheless , the habit of cheerfulness and sympathy had not deserted her , and it was with a somewhat amused glance that she turned towards Ethel , as she heard her answer by a sigh . 
` Poor Ethel ! 
said Ethel , ` especially as Flora and Mrs. Hoxton say it is all for your sake ; ' then , nettled by Margaret 's laugh , ` such a nice occupation for her , poor thing , as if you were Mrs. Hoxton , and had no resource but fancy-work . ' 
` You know I am base enough to be so amused , ' said Margaret ; ` but , seriously , Ethel dear , I can not bear to see you so much hurt by it . 
cried Ethel , vehemently . 
As soon as anything is done there , Flora must needs go about implying that we have set some grand work in hand , and want only means -- ' ` Stop , Ethel ; Flora does not boast . ' 
` No , she does not boast . 
I wish she did ! 
That would be straight-forward and simple ; but she has too good taste for that -- so she does worse -- she tells a little , and makes that go a long way , as if she were keeping back a great deal ! 
` Ethel ! ' 
` So , ' said Ethel , disregarding , ` she stirs up all Stoneborough to hear what the Miss Mays are doing at Cocksmoor . 
` No , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` It is of no use to talk to Flora , ' said Ethel ; ` she would say it was high-flown and visionary . 
she wants it for the bazaar 's own sake , and that is one reason why I hate it . ' 
` Now , Ethel ! ' 
` You frighten me , Ethel ! 
I can not say it is not so , and these are so like the latent faults that dear mamma 's letter spoke of -- ' Ethel sat meditating , and , at last , said , ` I wish I had not told you ! 
I ought not to have thought it of her ! 
Think of her ever ready kindness and helpfulness ; her pretty courteous ways to the very least ; her obligingness and tact ! ' 
` That is the bright side , the surface side , ' said Ethel . 
` No , ' said Ethel , ` but I can not help being sorry for Cocksmoor . 
Ethel sighed . 
Ethel laughed , and said , ` I did not think Mary was in such awe of me . 
` Her coming home from London was exactly a specimen of that sacrifice -- and no sacrifice , ' said Ethel . 
` They did their utmost , ' said Ethel . 
` They made engagements for her , and took her to parties and concerts -- those she did enjoy very much -- and she had lessons in drawing and music , but whenever she wanted to see any exhibitions , or do anything , they always said there was time to spare . 
I believe it was very charming , and she would have been very glad to stay , but she never would promise , and she was always thinking of her positive duty at home . 
She seemed afterwards to think of her wishes to remain almost as if they had been a sin ; but she said -- dear little Meta -- that nothing had ever helped her so much as that she used to say to herself , whenever she was going out , `` I renounce the world . '' 
` I was so sorry , ' said Ethel , ` but I had to go instead , and it was delightful . 
` And there was no more question of her going back ? ' 
She said , when her uncle asked in joke , on Monday morning , whether she had packed up to return with him , Mr. Rivers was quite nervously alarmed the first moment , lest she should intend it . ' 
said Ethel . 
` I should call her present position the perfection of feminine usefulness . ' 
` So perhaps it is , ' said Ethel ; ` but though she does it beautifully , and is very valuable ; to be the mistress of a great luxurious house , like that , does not seem to me the subject of aspirations like Meta 's . ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , ` she does more ; she told me one day that one reason she liked sketching was , that looking into nature always made Psalms and Hymns sing in her ears , and so with her music and her beautiful copies from the old Italian devotional pictures . 
She says our papa taught her to look at them so as to see more than the mere art and beauty . ' 
` Think how diligently she measures out her day , ' said Margaret ; ` getting up early , to be sure of time for reading her serious books , and working hard at her tough studies . ' 
` And what I care for still more , ' said Ethel , ` her being bent on learning plain needlework and doing it for her poor people . 
She is so useful amongst the cottagers at Abbotstoke ! ' 
Perhaps Ethel does not believe in them ? ' 
I know what you mean , and how she had difficulties about sending the maids to Church , and in dealing with the cook who did harm to the other servants , and yet sent up dinners that he liked , and how puzzled she was how to avoid annoying him . 
she has got into a peck of troubles by making herself manager . ' 
` And had she not been the Meta she is , she would either have fretted , or thrown it all up , instead of humming briskly through all . 
She never was afraid to speak to anyone , ' said Margaret , ` that is one thing ; I believe every difficulty makes the spirit bound higher , till she springs over it , and finds it , as she says , only a pleasure . ' 
` She need not be afraid to speak , ' said Ethel , ` for she always does it well and winningly . 
I have seen her give a reproof in so firm and kind a way , and so bright in the instant of forgiveness . ' 
` And yet , ' said Ethel , ` doing things well does not seem to be a snare to her . ' 
` No further than those two pretty meanings , the pearl and the daisy , ' said Ethel . 
` A fit meaning for one whole carries sunshine with her , ' said Margaret . 
` You want no one to put you in tune , ' said Ethel , fondly -- ` you , our own pearl of light . ' 
` Not a bit , only our moon , la gran Margarita , ' said Ethel . 
Her sway had been brought to a happy conclusion by a proposal from a widowed sister to keep house with her ; and Ethel had reason to rejoice that Margaret had kept her submissive under authority , which , if not always judicious , was both kind and conscientious . 
Upon the change , Ethel had thought that the lessons could easily be managed by herself and Flora ; while Flora was very anxious for a finishing governess , who might impart singing to herself , graces to Ethel , and accomplishments to Mary and Blanche . 
Blanche struck up a great friendship for her at once , Mary , always docile , ceased to be piteous at her lessons , and Ethel moralised on the satisfaction of having sympathy needed instead of repelled , and did her utmost to make Miss Bracy feel at home -- and like a friend -- in her new position . 
For herself , Ethel had drawn up a beautiful time-table , with all her pursuits and duties most carefully balanced , after the pattern of that which Margaret Rivers had made by her advice , on the departure of Mrs. Larpent , who had been called away by the ill-health of her son . 
Moreover , Ethel perceived that Aubrey 's lessons were in an unsatisfactory state . 
Gertrude was also Ethel 's pupil , but learning was not at all in her line ; and the sight of `` Cobwebs to Catch Flies , '' or of the venerated `` Little Charles , '' were the most serious clouds , that made the Daisy pucker up her face , and infuse a whine into her voice . 
However , to-day , as usual , she was half dragged , half coaxed , through her day 's portion of the discipline of life , and then sent up for her sleep , while Aubrey 's two hours were spent in more agreeable work , such as Margaret could not but enjoy hearing -- so spirited was Ethel 's mode of teaching -- so eager was her scholar . 
His play afterwards consisted in fighting o'er again the siege of Troy on the floor , with wooden bricks , shells , and the survivors of a Noah 's ark , while Ethel read to Margaret until Gertrude 's descent from the nursery , when the only means of preventing a dire confusion in Aubrey 's camp was , for her elder sisters to become her playfellows , and so spare Aubrey 's temper Ethel good-humouredly gave her own time , till their little tyrant trotted out to make Norman carry her round the garden on his back ! 
So sped the morning till Flora came home , full of the intended bazaar , and Ethel would fain have taken refuge in puzzling out her Spanish , had she not remembered her recent promise to be gracious . 
The matter had been much as she had described it . 
Flora had a way of hinting at anything she thought creditable , and thus the Stoneborough public had become aware of the exertions of the May family on behalf of Cocksmoor . 
As she had once declared , with truth , it only had depended on them selves , whether she and her sisters should sink to the level of the Andersons , and their set , or belong to the county society ; and her tact had resulted in her being decidedly -- as the little dress-maker 's apprentice amused Ethel by saying -- `` One of our most distinguished patronesses '' -- a name that had stuck by her ever since . 
said Ethel , heaving up a grim mass of knitting . 
Then , Ethel , we will get some pretty batiste , and you and Mary shall make some of those nice sun-bonnets , which you really do to perfection . ' 
People may have something worth buying , ' said Ethel , who , like all the world , felt the influence of Flora 's tact . 
` Mrs. Taylor , at Cocksmoor , could do that for you , ' said Ethel . 
` Her two phials , stuffed with chintz patterns and flour , are quite as original and tasteful . ' 
` The essence of Vanity Fair , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel saw Margaret looking distressed , and , recalling her resolution , she said , ` Well , Flora , I dont mean to say any more about it . 
` Poor old King Ethel ! ' 
Perpetual change prevented any real education , and , as each lady held different opinions and proscribed all books not agreeing thereto , everything `` dogmatical '' was excluded ; and , as Ethel said , the children learnt nothing but facts about lions and steam-engines , while their doctrine varied with that of the visitor for the week . 
It was well that Ethel was not at home . 
cried Ethel , as she heard of this , ` it would be hard to find such a teacher in humility ! 
As to the dullness , against which Ethel used to rail , the attacks upon it had made her erect it into a positive merit ; she was always comparing the truth , honesty , and respectful demeanour of Cherry 's scholars , with the notorious faults of the National-school girls , as if these defects had been implanted either by Mrs. Ledwich , or by geography . 
However , the interest of the bazaar began somewhat to divert the current of the ladies ' thoughts , and Ethel found herself walking day after day to Cocksmoor , unmolested by further reports of Mrs. Ledwich 's proceedings . 
His parish , carefully watched for so many years , had been a study not lost upon Norman , who detailed particulars of the doings there , which made Ethel sigh to think of the contrast with Stoneborough . 
said Ethel , in a low voice , from the bottom of her heart . 
She used him mercifully , and made the lessons shorter than usual , but when they reached the open air again , he drew a long breath ; and when Mary eagerly tried for a compliment to their scholars , asked if they could not be taught the use of eyelids . 
said Ethel . 
` You used such hard words , ' replied Ethel . 
` Never mind , ' said Ethel , seeing him disconcerted . 
said Ethel . 
` Yes , ' replied Ethel , very low . 
` One soul is worth -- ' and she paused from the fullness of thought . 
` They do , ' said Ethel . 
His aid was Ethel 's chief pleasure through this somewhat trying summer , it might be her last peaceful one at Cocksmoor . 
How wild it had driven the whole town , and even her own home ! 
In her unvaried life , it was a great amusement to have so many bright elegant things exhibited to her , and Ethel was often mortified to find her excited about some new device , or drawn off from `` rational employments , '' to complete some trifle . 
If Ethel remonstrated , she hurt Miss Bracy 's feelings , and this was a very serious matter to both parties . 
All Ethel 's good sense was of no avail ; she could not stop Miss Bracy , and , though she might resolve within herself that real kindness would be to make one reasonable reply , and then quit the subject , yet , on each individual occasion , such a measure would have seemed mere impatience and cruelty . 
She found that if Miss Winter had been too dry , Miss Bracy went to the other extreme , and demanded a manifestation of sympathy , and return to her passionate attachment that perplexed Ethel 's undemonstrative nature . 
Ethel submitted , and only laughed with Norman at the display of treasures , which the girls went over daily , like the `` House that Jack built , '' always starting from ` the box that Mary made . ' 
Ethel hoped that the holidays would create a diversion , but Mary was too old to be made into a boy , and Blanche drew Hector over to the feminine party , setting him to gum , gild , and paste all the contrivances which , in their hands , were mere feeble gimcracks , but which now became fairly sound , or , at least , saleable . 
The boys also constructed a beautiful little ship from a print of the Alcestis , so successfully , that the Doctor promised to buy it ; and Ethel grudged the very sight of it to the bazaar . 
thought Ethel , as she awoke . 
Flora was sleeping at the Grange , to be ready for action in the morning , and Ethel was to go early with Mary and Blanche , who were frantic to have a share in the selling . 
It was a pattern day , bright , clear , warm , and not oppressive , perfect for an out-of-doors fète ; and Ethel had made up her mind to fulfil her promise to Margaret of enjoying herself . 
In the brilliant sunshine , and between two such happy sisters , it would have been surly , indeed , not to enter into the spirit of the day ; and Ethel laughed gaily with them , and at their schemes and hopes ; Blanche 's heart being especially set on knowing the fate of a watch-guard of her own construction . 
Ethel , with her over minute knowledge of every article , could hardly believe that yonder glowing Eastern pattern of scarlet , black and blue , was , in fact , a judicious mosaic of penwipers that she remembered , as shreds begged from the tailor , that the delicate lace-work consisted of Miss Bracey 's perpetual anti-macassars , and that the potichomanie could look so dignified and Etruscan . 
` Coming in good time , ' said Ethel . 
` What a genius she is , Ethel ! 
She worked wonders all yesterday , and let the Miss Hoxtons think it was all their own doing , and she was out before six this morning , putting finishing touches . ' 
said Ethel . 
It occurred to Ethel , for the first time , that Flora was decidedly the reigning beauty of the bazaar -- no one but Meta Rivers could be compared to her , and that little lady was on so small a scale of perfect finish , that she seemed fit to act the fairy , where Flora was the enchanted princess . 
cried Blanche ; whereupon he fell into a fit of laughter , which disconcerted her , because she could not understand him , and made Ethel take an aversion to him on the spot . 
There Mr. George Rivers came up , and began to teaze Blanche about the guards , asking her to take his fifteen shillings -- or five-and-twenty , and who had got that one , which alone he wanted ; till the poor child , after standing perplexed for some moments , looked up with spirit , and said , `` You have no business to ask , '' and , running away , took refuge in the back of Mrs. Hoxton 's marquee , where she found Ethel packing up for Miss Hoxton 's purchasers , and confiding to her that Mr. George Rivers was a horrid man , she ventured no more from her protection . 
She did , indeed , emerge , when told that papa was coming with Aubrey and Daisy , and Miss Bracy , and she had the pleasure of selling to them some of her wares , Dr. May bargaining with her to her infinite satisfaction ; and little Gertrude 's blue eyes opened to their full width , not understanding what could have befallen her sisters . 
` And what is Ethel doing ? ' 
` Packing up parcels , papa , ' and Ethel 's face was raised , looking very merry . 
` Lasting is the concern of nothing in the fair , papa ' answered she , in the same tone . 
For Ethel was noted as the worst packer in the house ; but , having offered to wrap up a pincushion , sold by a hurried Miss Hoxton , she became involved in the office for the rest of the day -- the same which Bellairs and her companion performed at the Langdale counter . 
Flora was too ready and dextrous to need any such aid , but the Miss Hoxtons were glad to be spared the trouble ; and Blanche , whose fingers were far neater than Ethel 's , made the task much easier , and was kept constant to it by her dread of the dark moustache , which was often visible near their tent , searching , she thought , for her . 
Poor Ethel , who had been persuaded to venture a shilling to please Blanche , who had spent all her own , obtained the two jars in potichomanie , and was regarding them with a face worth painting . 
So Dr. May gathered his flock together , and packed them , boys and all , into the two conveyances , and Ethel bade Meta good night , almost wondering to hear her merry voice say , ` It has been a delightful day , has it not ? 
Ethel smiled , but hurried her departure , for she saw Blanche again tormented by Mr. George Rivers , to know what had become of the guard , telling her that , if she would not say , he should be furiously jealous . 
Blanche hid her face on Ethel 's arm , when they were in the carriage , and almost cried with indignant `` shamefastness . '' 
That long-desired day had not bee one of unmixed happiness to her , poor child , and Ethel doubted whether it had been so to anyone , except , indeed , to Mary , whose desires never soared so high but that they were easily fulfilled , and whose placid content was not easily wounded . 
She was so charmed with her presents , of every degree ; things , unpleasant at the time , could , by drollery in the relating , be made mirthful fun , ever after ; Dr. May and the boys were so comical in their observations -- Mary 's wonder and simplicity came in so amazingly -- and there was such merriment at Ethel 's two precious jars , that she could hardly wish they had not come to her . 
said her father , laying his hand on Ethel 's arm , as she was wearily and pensively putting together the scattered purchases , before going up to bed . 
` Spectators are more philosophical than actors , Ethel . 
` I had rather do that than -- but that is the `` Fox and the Grapes , '' ` said Ethel , smiling . 
` Ethel , my child ! 
said Ethel , rousing herself , though speaking huskily . 
` You know I am your merry Ethel . 
You know I can be happy enough -- only at home -- ' And Ethel , though she had tried to be cheerful , leant against his arm , and shed a few tears . 
` The fact is , she is tired out , ' said Dr. May , soothingly , yet half laughing . 
` She is not a beauty or a grace , and she is thoughtful and quiet , and so she moralizes , instead of enjoying , as the world goes by . 
` They are not there yet , Ethel . 
The next day , Ethel had hoped for a return to reason , but behold , the world was cross ! 
Ethel had been holding an interminable conversation with her in the school-room , interrupted at last by a summons to speak to a Cocksmoor woman at the back-door , and she was returning from the kitchen , when the Doctor called her into his study . 
` Ethel ! 
` I am sure you will be quite as much surprised , ' said Ethel , somewhat exasperated , ` when you hear that you lacerated her feelings yesterday . ' 
` You shewed your evident want of confidence in her . ' 
` Ethel , what on earth can you mean ? 
I do not know how to believe you , Ethel . 
Of course you told her , nothing of the kind crossed my mind , poor thing . ' 
` I told her so , over and over again , as I have done forty times before , but her feelings are always being hurt ! ' 
no doubt it is a trying situation , and she is sensitive . 
Surely you are all forbearing with her ? ' 
` I hope we are , ' said Ethel ; ` but how can we tell what vexes her ? ' 
` Well , papa , ' said Ethel , softened , yet wounded by his thinking it so impossible . 
` I had often thought I ought to tell her that these sensitive feelings of hers were nothing but temper ; and perhaps -- indeed I know I do -- I partake of the general fractiousness of the house to-day , and I did not bear it so patiently as usual . 
I did say that I thought it wrong to foster her fancies ; for if she looked at them coolly , she would find they were only a form of pride and temper . ' 
` It did not come well from you , Ethel , ' said the Doctor , looking vexed . 
` No , I know it did not , ' said Ethel , meekly ; ` but oh ! 
said Ethel . 
If any of us criticize anything the girls have done , if there is a change in any arrangement , if she thinks herself neglected -- I ca n't tell you what little matters suffice ; she will catch me , and argue with me , till-oh ! 
I would not have told you , if I had remebered -- but I am worried to-day , and off my guard -- ' ` Ethel , I thought you were the one on whom I could depend for hearing everything . ' 
` What may seem nonsense to you , is not the same to her . 
You must be forbearing , Ethel . 
` It seems to me that touchiness is more pride than humility , ' said Ethel , whose temper , already not in the smoothest state , found it hard that , after having long borne patiently with these constant arguments , she should find Miss Bracy made the chief object of compassion . 
He put Ethel aside , and knocked at the school-room door , while Ethel stood , mortified . 
` He thinks I have been neglecting , or speaking harshly to her ! 
For fifty times that I have borne with her maundering , I have , at last , once told her the truth ; and for that I am accused of want of forbearance ! 
Now he will go and make much of her , and pity her , till she will think herself an injured heroine , and be worse than ever ; and he will do away with all the good of my advice , and want me to ask her pardon for it -- but that I never will . 
` Ethel ! ' 
She was crying , and I asked what was the matter , and she said , my sister Ethel said , she was ill-tempered . ' 
` She made a great exaggeration then , ' said Ethel . 
` I am sure she was very cross all day ! ' 
` Well , that is no business of yours , ' said Ethel , pettishly . 
Miss Bracy had ceased her tears before he came -- they had been her retort on Ethel , and she had not intended the world to know of them . 
Half-disconcerted , half-angry , she heard the Doctor approach . 
She was a gentle , tearful woman , one of those who are often called meek , under an erroneous idea , that meekness consists in making herself exceedingly miserable under every kind of grievance ; and she now had a sort of melancholy satisfaction in believing that the young ladies had fabricated an exaggerated complaint of her temper , and that she was going to become injured innocence . 
To think herself accused of a great wrong , excused her from perceiving herself guilty of a lesser one . 
Such amends as these confused Miss Bracy , who found it pleasanter to be lamentable with Ethel , than to receive a full apology , for her imagined offence , from the master of the house . 
Feeling both small and absurd , she murmured something of `` oh no ; '' and `` being sure , '' and hoped he was going , so that she might sit down to pity herself , for those girls having made her appear so ridiculous . 
Dr. May put a chair for her , and sat down himself , saying , with a smile , ` You see , you must trust us sometimes , and overlook it , if we are less considerate than we might be . 
Miss Bracy began to be sensible that she had somewhat abused Ethel 's patience ; and the unfortunate speech about the source of her sensitiveness , did not appear to her so direfully cruel as at first . 
Margaret gravely sent Blanche and the other children away , to take their walk , and the brother and sister , soon after , took leave , when Flora called Ethel to hasten to the Ladies ' Committee , that they might arrange the disposal of the one hundred and fifty pounds , the amount of their gains . 
` To see the fate of Cocksmoor , ' said Ethel . 
` Poor Ethel ! 
There was sense in this ; there always was sense in what Flora said , but it jarred on Ethel ; and it seemed almost unsympathizing in her to be so gay , when the rest were wearied or perturbed . 
Ethel would have been very glad of a short space to recollect herself , and recover her good temper ; but it was late , and Flora hurried her to put on her bonnet , and come to the Committee . 
` It would not be acting fairly to let them build for us , and then for us to put them out of the management , ' said Ethel . 
` You like to build Cocksmoor with such instruments , ' said Ethel , whose ruffled condition made her forget her resolution not to argue with Flora . ' 
said Ethel . 
said Ethel , sensible all the time of her own ill-humour , and of her sister 's patience and amiability , yet propelled to speak the unpleasant truths that in her better moods were held back . 
Still Flora was good tempered , though Ethel would almost have preferred her being provoked ; ` I know , ' she said , ` I have been using you ill , and leaving the world on your shoulders , but it was all in your service and Cocksmoor 's ; and now we shall begin to be reasonable and useful again . ' 
` I hope so , ' said Ethel . 
` Really , Ethel , to comfort you , I think I shall send you with Norman to dine at Abbotstoke Grange on Wednesday . 
and Ethel repeated the doubt between hating and detesting . 
Flora came in , smiling and greeting ; Ethel , grave , earnest , and annoyed , behind her , trying to be perfectly civil , but not at all enjoying the congratulation on the successful bazaar . 
The ladies all talked and discussed their yesterday 's adventures , gathering in little knots , as they traced the fate of favourite achievements of their skill , while Ethel , lugubrious and impatient , beside Flora , the only one not engaged , and , therefore , conscious of the hubbub of clacking tongues . 
So they all sat down round a circular table , with a very fine red , blue , and black oil-cloth , whose pattern was inseparably connected , in Ethel 's mind , with absurdity , tedium , and annoyance . 
Everyone except Flora , Ethel , and quiet Mrs. Ward , began to talk at once . 
There was a great deal about Elizabethan architecture , crossed by much more , in which normal , industrial , and common things , most often met Ethel 's ear , with some stories , second-hand , from Harvey Anderson , of marvellous mistakes ; and , on the opposite side of the table , there was Mrs. Ledwich , impressively saying something to the silent Mrs. Ward , marking her periods with emphatic beats with her pencil , and each seemed to close with `` Mrs. Perkinson 's niece , '' whom Ethel knew to be Cherry 's intended supplanter . 
She looked piteously at Flora , who only smiled and made a sign with her hand to her to be patient . 
Ethel fretted inwardly at that serene sense of power ; but she could not but admire how well Flora knew how to bide her time , when , having waited till Mrs. Ledwich had nearly wound up her discourse on Mrs. Elwood 's impudence , and Mrs. Perkinson 's niece , she leant towards Miss Boulder , who sat between , and whispered to her : ` Ask Mrs. Ledwich if we should not begin with some steps for getting the land . ' 
Flora gave Ethel a tranquillizing pat , and , as Mrs. Ledwich turned to her , asking whether she thought Dr. May , or Dr. Hoxton , would prevail on him to come , she said , with her winning look , ` I think that consideration had better wait till we have some more definite view . 
Flora 's gentle voice carried conviction that she knew what she was saying , when , at last , they left a moment for her to speak -- -LRB- Ethel would have done so long ago . -RRB- 
You will see , Ethel , we shall get the ground on our own terms , and then it will be time to settle about the mistress . 
` My dear Ethel ! 
Ethel did not answer ; she had self-control enough left , not to retort upon Flora 's estimate of herself , but the irritation was strong ; she felt as if her cherished views of Cocksmoor were insulted , as well as set aside , by the place being made the occasion of so much folly and vain prattle , the sanctity of her vision of self-devotion destroyed by such interference , and Flora 's promises did not reassure her . 
Such were Ethel 's feelings as the pair walked down the street ; the one sister bright and smiling with the good humour that had endured many shocks all that day , all good-nature and triumph , looking forward to success , great benefit to Cocksmoor , and plenty of management , with credit and praise to herself ; the other , downcast and irritable , with annoyance at the interference with her schemes , at the prospects of her school , and at herself for being out of temper , prone to murmur or to reply tartly , and not able to recover from her mood , but only , as she neared the house , lapsing into her other trouble , and preparing to resist any misjudged , though kind attempt of her father , to make her unsay her rebuke to Miss Bracy . 
Dr. May was at his study door , as his daughters entered the hall , and Ethel expected the order which she meant to question ; but , instead of this , after a brief inquiry after the doings of the nine muses , which Flora answered , so as to make him laugh , he stopped Ethel , as she was going up-stairs , by saying , ` I do not know whether this letter is intended for Richard , or for me . 
So far Ethel saw , and exclaimed , with amusement , then , with a long-drawn `` Ah ! '' 
she became absorbed , the large tears -- yes , Ethel 's reluctant tears gathering slowly and dropping . 
`` I never saw a more engaging , though droll , wild expression , than that with which she looked up to me -- '' -LRB- Ethel 's cry of delight was , at that sentence -- she knew that look so well , and had yearned after it so often ! -RRB- 
that she was not , when she went away ! ' -RRB- 
how I longed , when she went away , to beg her to keep them up ! 
Nothing could have so humbled the distrustful spirit that had been working in Ethel , which had been scotched into silence -- not killed -- when she endured the bazaar , and now had been indemnifying itself by repining at every stumbling-block . 
Ethel gave her the letter , and Mary 's tears showered very fast -- they always came readily . 
Ethel ! 
No wonder his teaching -- ' and Ethel sat down and cried again . 
Ethel , do you think ' -- she came near , and whispered -- ` that Una has met dear mamma there ? ' 
Ethel kissed her . 
Mary was silent , and , next time she spoke , it was to hope that Ethel would tell the Cocksmoor children about Una . 
Ethel was obliged to dress , and go down-stairs to tea . 
Her father seemed to have been watching for her , with his study door open , for he came to meet her , took her hand , and said , in a low voice , ` My dear child , I wish you joy . 
` That it will , papa -- ' ` Why , Ethel , have you been crying over it all this time ? ' 
said he , struck by the sadness of her voice . 
Ethel 's lips trembled . 
I see it now -- and here this poor girl , that I thought thrown away -- ' ` Aye , Ethel , you will often see the like . 
Dr. May gave Ethel his sheet not folded . 
` The authority can move from without , the equal must from within , ' said Ethel . 
` That is the worst of it , ' said Ethel . 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , hesitating . 
` You here , Ethel ? ' 
` I am more surprised to find you here , ' she answered . 
` Harry 's , when you were made Dux , ' whispered Ethel to her brother . 
asked Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
Ethel would have asked further of her father 's dear old friend , but there were sounds , denoting an arrival , and Margaret beckoned to them , as Miss Rivers , and her brother , were ushered into the drawing-room ; and Blanche instantly fled away , with her basin , to hide herself in the school-room . 
` Mary unconsciously acted Diana , ' said Ethel , ` and bore the victim away . ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , ` my only doll was like a heraldic lion , couped in all her parts . ' 
Meta told Ethel , a little apart , that he was so tired of going out alone , that he had brought her here , in search of a companion . 
` Indeed , ' exclaimed Ethel . 
` It would be a horrid nuisance to me , ' said Ethel , bluntly , ` if my brothers wanted me to amuse them all the morning . ' 
` Come , Ethel , do n't make me naughty . 
When Ethel had watched the tall , ponderous brother help the bright fairy sister to fly airily into her saddle , and her sparkling glance , ' and wave of the hand , as she cantered off , contrasting with his slow bend , and immobility of feature , she could not help saying that Meta 's life certainly was not too charming , with her fanciful , valetudinarian father , and that stupid , idealess brother . 
` We shall have baby calling him `` the detestable '' next , ' said Ethel . 
` What a famous set down she gave him . ' 
` She is a thorough lady , and allows no liberties , ' said Dr. May . 
cried Ethel , laughing . 
` Aye , ' said Ethel , ` when you come yawning to me to find amusement for you , you will see what I shall do ! ' 
` That is too intellectual , as papa makes it , ' said Ethel . 
` By-the-by , Norman , ' she added , as she had now walked with him a little apart , ` it always was a bubble of mine that you should try for the Newdigate Prize . 
Now , Ethel , do oblige me , do write another , as we used in old times . ' 
` I had better not , ' said Ethel , standing thoughtful . 
Ethel prevailed by following her brother to his room , and perching herself on the window-sill , while he read his performance from many slips of paper . 
The visions of those boyish days had not been forgotten , the Vesuvius scenery was much as Ethel had once described it , but with far more force and beauty ; there was Decius ' impassioned address to the beauteous land he was about to leave , and the remembrances of his Roman hearth , his farm , his children , whom he quitted for the pale shadows of an uncertain Elysium . 
There was a great hiatus in the middle , and Norman had many more authorities to consult , but the summing up was nearly complete , and Ethel thought the last lines grand , as they spoke of the noble consul 's name living for evermore , added to the examples that nerve ardent souls to devote life , and all that is precious , to the call of duty . 
She may crown their pale brows , but for the good of others , not their own , a beacon light to the world . 
` Next spring , if at all , but keep the secret , Ethel . 
` I 'll tell you of a motto , ' said Ethel . 
` Too obvious , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel was always very happy over Norman 's secrets , and went about smiling over Decius , and comparing her brother with such a one as poor Meta was afflicted with ; wasting some superfluous pity and contempt on the weary weight that was inflicted on the Grange . 
cried Ethel , laughing . 
` But not one word about it , Ethel ! ' 
Margaret and Etheldred kept their eyes open , and sometimes imagined , sometimes laughed at themselves for their speculations , and so October began ; and Ethel laughed , as she questioned whether the Grange would feel the Hussar 's return to his quarters , as much as home would the departure of their scholar for Balliol . 
She forgave him , when it occurred to her that she was too important , and valuable , to be easily spared ; and a tenderness thrilled through her , as she looked at the sleeping Margaret 's pale face , and thought of surrendering her and little Daisy to Ethel 's keeping . 
She decided , however , that feelings must not sway her -- out of six sisters some must marry , for the good of the rest . 
Blanche and Daisy should come and stay with her , to be formed by the best society ; and , as to poor dear Ethel , Mrs. Rivers would rule the Ladies ' Committee for her with a high hand , and , perhaps , provide Cocksmoor with a school at her sole expense . 
What a useful , admirable woman she would be ! 
Ethel perceived that something was in agitation , but the fact did not break upon her till she came to Margaret , after the school-room reading , and heard Dr. May declaiming away , in the vehement manner , that always relieved him . 
These were the words that met her ear ; and she would have gone away , but he called her -- ` Come in , Ethel ; Margaret says , you guessed at this affair ! ' 
exclaimed Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` Yes she does ! 
What can possess her ? 
What can she see to admire ? ' 
` I am afraid it is partly the grandeur -- ' said Ethel . 
She broke off short , quite dismayed at the emotion she had excited . 
Dr. May stepped towards her , almost as if he could have shaken her . 
` Ethel ! ' 
Ethel tried to recollect what she had said that was so shocking , for the idea of Flora 's worldly motives was no novelty to her . 
` Ethel did not mean , dear papa -- ' ` No , ' said Dr. May , his passionate manner giving way to dejection . 
Meanwhile , Ethel stood unnoticed and silent , making no outward protestation , but with lips compressed , as in her heart of hearts , she passed the resolution -- that her father should never feel this pain on her account . 
Leave him who might , she would never forsake him ; nothing but the will of Heaven should part them . 
She knew not what it might cost her ; but , where Ethel had treasured her resolve to work for Cocksmoor , there she also laid up her secret vow -- that no earthly object should be placed between her and her father . 
Margaret and Ethel glanced at each other ; and both felt the impenetrability of Flora 's nature , so smooth , that all thrusts glided off . 
` It will be of no use , ' said Ethel ; ` and , what is more , she will not have it done . ' 
Do you think she will attend to me , when she has not chosen to heed papa ? ' 
said Ethel , with an emphasis of incredulity . 
` More yours than mine , ' said Ethel . 
She looked so nervous and shaken by the bare idea of a remonstrance with Flora , that Ethel could not press her ; and , though convinced that her representation would be useless , she owned that her conscience would rest better , after she had spoken . 
So Ethel let it rest , and attended to the children 's lessons , during which Flora came into the drawing-room , and practised her music , as if nothing had happened . 
Before the morning was over , Ethel contrived to visit Norman , in the dining-room , where he was wont to study , and asked him whether he had made any impression on Flora . 
` Why , about this concern , ' said Ethel ; ` this terrible man , that makes papa so unhappy . ' 
` My dear Ethel , if you wait to marry till you find some one as clever as yourself , you will wait long enough . 
Ethel sat down , perfectly breathless with amazement and indignation . 
Norman saw that he had shocked her very much . 
` I tell you , ' said Ethel , ` it is not the intellect . 
` You do not understand me , Ethel . 
` I did wrong , ' said Ethel . 
` Now , Ethel , you are working yourself up into a state of foolish prejudice . 
said Ethel , ironically . 
` I wonder if she would have seen them in a poor Curate . ' 
` Ethel ! 
` So papa said , ' replied Ethel , as she looked sorrowfully down . 
` I only wish you to know what I feel ; and , I think , Margaret and papa do , ' said Ethel , humbly , ` and then you will not think us more unjust than we are . 
He was heartily delighted at the proposed connexion , and his genuine satisfaction not only gratified Flora , and restored the equanimity that had been slightly disturbed by her father , but it also reassured Ethel and Margaret , who could not help trusting in his judgment , and began to hope that George might be all he thought him . 
Ethel , finding that there were two ways of viewing the gentleman , doubted whether she ought to express her opinion . 
Dr. May was not so much consoled by Norman 's opinion , as Ethel expected . 
Meta Rivers came flying into the room , her beautiful eyes dancing , and her cheeks glowing with pleasure , as , a little timidly , she kissed Margaret ; while Ethel , in a confused way , received Mr. Rivers , in pain for her own cold , abrupt manner , in contrast with his gentle , congratulating politeness . 
Ethel was almost vexed with herself , as ungrateful , when she saw Mr. Rivers so mildly kind , and so delighted , with the bland courtesy that seemed fully conscious of the favour that Flora had conferred on his son , and thankful to the Mays for accepting him . 
Margaret answered with more expression of gratification , than would have been sincere in Ethel ; but it was a relief , when Flora and Meta came in together , as pretty a contrast as could be seen ; the little dark-eyed fairy , all radiant with joy , clinging to the slender waist of Flora , whose quiet grace , and maidenly dignity , were never more conspicuous , than , as with a soft red mantling in her fair cheek , her eyes cast down , but with a simple , unaffected warmth of confidence and gratitude , she came forward to receive Mr. Rivers 's caressing affectionate greeting . 
Ethel could not feel the same , and was bent on avoiding any expression of opinion ; she hoped that Meta 's ecstacies would all be bestowed upon her future sister-in-law ; but Meta was eager for an interview with Ethel herself , and , as usual , gained her point . 
Ethel had not thought of this as a convenience of the connection , and she let Meta kiss her , and owned that it was very nice . 
` Ethel , ' said Meta , ` I see , and I wanted to talk to you . 
` I never meant to shew it , ' said Ethel . 
` A great lubberly boy , ' Ethel said , rather repenting the next moment . 
` Thank you for telling me , ' said Ethel . 
Meta laughed , for Ethel 's sham was not too successful ; she continued , ` dear Dr. May , I thought he would think his beautiful Flora not exactly matched -- but tell him , Ethel , for if he once is sorry for poor George , he will like him . 
` I can like it better now , ' said Ethel . 
Meta clapped her hands , and said that she should tell her father , and Ethel parted with her , liking her , at least , better than ever . 
There was a comical scene between her and the Doctor , trying to define what relations they should become to each other , which Ethel thought did a good deal to mollify her father . 
As to Tom , he wrote his congratulations to Ethel , that she might make a wedding present of her Etruscan vases , the Cupids on which must have been put there by anticipation . 
Richard heard none of the doubts , and gave kind , warm congratulations , promising to return home for the wedding ; and Mary and Blanche no sooner heard a whisper about bridesmaids , than all their opposition faded away , in a manner that quite scandalized Ethel , while it set Margaret on reminiscences of her having been a six-year old bridesmaid to Flora 's godmother , Mrs. Arnott . 
As to the gossip in the town , Ethel quite dreaded the sight of everyone without Flora to protect her , and certainly , Flora 's unaffected , quiet manner , was perfection , and kept off all too forward congratulations , while it gratified those whom she was willing to encourage . 
She laughed with Ethel at the anticipations of the Stoneborough ladies that she must be going to London , and , at the requests , as a great favour , that they might be allowed the sight of her trousseau . 
Her wedding-dress , white silk , with a white cashmere mantle , was , indeed , ordered from Meta 's London dress-maker ; but , for the rest , she contented herself with an expedition to Whitford , accompanied by Miss Bracy and her two enchanted pupils , and there laid in a stock of purchases , unpretending and in good taste , aiming only at what could be well done , and not attempting the decorative wardrobe of a great lady . 
Ethel was highly amused when the Miss Andersons came for their inspection , to see their concealed disappointment at finding no under garments trimmed with Brussels , lace , nor pocket handkerchiefs all open-work , except a centre of the size of a crown-piece , and the only thing remarkable , was Margaret 's beautiful marking in embroidery . 
If the bride had been anyone else , she could have enjoyed making all go off well , but , under present circumstances , it would be great pain to her father and Margaret , a misery to Ethel , and something she dared not think of to the guests . 
She had no difficulty in having it dispensed with . 
The bride-maiden 's glory was theirs by right , though Ethel was an unsatisfactory chief , for such as desired splendour . 
She protested against anything incongruous with January , or that could not be useful afterwards , and Meta took her part , laughing at the cruel stroke they were preparing for Bellairs . 
Ethel begged for dark silks and straw bonnets , and Flora said that she had expected to hear of brown stuff and grey duffle , but owned that they had better omit the ordinary muslin garb in the heart of winter . 
Meta was charmed with the idea , and though Ethel stuck out her shoulder-blades and poked out her head , and said she should look like the ugly duckling , she was clamorously reminded that the ugly duckling ended by being a swan , and promised that she should be allowed a bonnet of a reasonable size , trimmed with white , for Mr. Rivers ' good taste could endure , as little as Dr. May 's sense of propriety , the sight of a daughter without shade to her face . 
Ethel , finally , gave in , on being put in mind that her papa had a penchant for swan 's - down ; and , on Margaret 's promising to wear a dress of the same as theirs . 
Ethel was pleased and satisfied by Flora 's dislike of parade , and attention to the feelings of all . 
Passing over the one great fact ; the two sisters were more of one mind than usual , probably because all latent jealousy of Ethel had ceased in Flora 's mind . 
Hitherto , she had preferred the being the only practically useful person in the family , and had encouraged the idea of Ethel 's gaucherie ; but now she desired to render her sister able to take her place , and did all in her power to put her in good heart . 
Her morning powers became too uncertain to be depended on for any regular , necessary duty , and it would have oppressed her so much to order the dinners , which she never saw , that , though she offered to resume the office , Flora would not hear of Ethel 's consenting . 
If it were her proper business , Ethel supposed she could do it , but another hour of her leisure was gone , and what would become of them all , with her , a proverb for heedlessness , and ignorance of ordinary details . 
She did not know that these were more proverbial than actual , and , having a bad name , she believed in it herself . 
In the attendance on Margaret , the other great charge , old nurse was the security ; and Ethel , who had felt herself much less unhandy than before , was to succeed to the abode , in her room -- Blanche being promoted , from the nursery , to the old attic . 
` Never mind , Ethel , ' said Flora . 
` You mean to come down with the external authority , ' said Ethel , smiling . 
and though my driving in with a pair of horses may make little difference to you , Ethel , depend upon it , Mrs. Ledwich will be the more amenable . 
said Ethel laughing . 
cried Ethel , terrified . 
Everybody was delighted to have him ; and Ethel , more than anyone , except Margaret . 
He could not enter into the refinements of her dread of the Ladies ' Committee , and thought she might be thankful if the school were built by any proper means ; for , if Cherry Elwood were retained , and the ladies prevented from doing harm , he did not understand why Ethel should wish to reject all assistance , that did not come in a manner she admired . 
He never would comprehend -- so Ethel gave it up -- feared she was again jealous and self-sufficient , and contented herself with the joy that his presence produced at Cocksmoor , where the children smiled , blushed , and tittered , with ecstacy , whenever he even looked at one of them . 
Richard coloured , and said that he had brought no sermon ; and he was , in fact , deprived of much of his sisters ' company , for composition was not easy to him , and the quantity of time he spent on it , quite alarmed Norman and Ethel , who both felt rather nervous on the Sunday morning , but agreed that preaching was not everything . 
Ethel could not see well , as far as the reading desk , but she saw her father glance up , take off his spectacles , wipe them , and put them away ; and she could not be displeased , though she looked reproof at Blanche 's breathless whisper , ` Oh , he looks so nice ! ' 
It was an exposition of the Gospel for the day , practical and earnest , going deep , and rising high , with a clearness and soberness , yet with a beauty and elevation , such as Norman and Ethel had certainly not expected -- or , rather , they forgot all their own expectations , and Richard himself , and only recollected their own hearts , and the great future before them . 
She went away before the meal was over , and , when Ethel went to the bed-room , shortly after , she found that she had fairly broken down , and was kneeling beside Margaret 's sofa , resting her head on her sister 's bosom , and sobbing -- as Ethel had never seen her weep , except on that dreadful night , after their mother 's death . 
In a person ordinarily of such self-command as Flora , weeping was a terrible thing , and Margaret was much distressed and alarmed ; but the worst had passed before Ethel came up , and Flora was able to speak . 
Ethel thought she caught those words ; but , no more , Mary 's step was heard , and Flora was on her feet , instantly , composing herself rapidly . 
Ethel 's long Scotch bones , and Mary 's round , dumpy shapelessness , were , in their different ways , equally hard to overcome ; and the one was swelled out with a fabulous number of petticoats , and the other pinched in , till she gasped and screamed for mercy , while Blanche and Gertrude danced about , beautiful to behold , under their shady hats ; and presently , with a light tap at the door , Meta Rivers stepped in , looking so pretty , that all felt , that to try to attain to such an appearance , was vain . 
Ethel did as she was told , without much volition of her own ; and she quitted the carriage , and was drawn into her place by Norman , trusting that Meta would not let her do wrong , and relieved that , just in front of her , were the little ones , over whose heads she could see her father , with Flora 's veiled bending figure . 
Ethel stood and knelt , but did not seem , to herself , to have the power of thinking , or feeling . 
She saw and heard -- that was all ; she could not realize . 
They drew her forward , when it was over , to sign her name , as witness . 
She took up the pen , looked at the Flora May , written for the last time , and found her hand so trembling , that she said , half-smiling , that she could not write . 
Ethel knew , then , how much had been undeveloped in her own mind , catching it , as it were , from his touch , and look . 
The bells struck up , each peal ending with a crash , that gave Ethel some vague idea of fatality ; and they all came back to the house , where Margaret was ready , in the drawing-room , to receive them , looking very pretty , in her soft blue dress , which especially became her fair complexion , and light brown hair . 
Ethel did not quite like the pink colour on her cheeks , and feared that she had been shaken by Flora 's agitation , in the morning ; but she was very calm and bright , in the affectionate greeting with which she held out her hands to the bride and bridegroom , as they came in . 
Flora was gone to change her dress , not giving way , but nervous and hurried , as she reiterated parting directions about household comforts to Ethel , who stood by the toilette-table , sticking a pin into the pincushion and drawing it out again , as if solely intent on making it always fit into the same hole , while Mary dressed Flora , packed , flew about , and was useful . 
As they came down stairs , Ethel found that Flora was trembling from head to foot , and leaning on her ; Dr. May stood at the foot of the stairs , and folded his daughter in a long embrace ; Flora gave herself up to it as if she would never bear to leave it . 
She had hoped for Ethel , but on looking at her , ceased her coaxing importunity . 
` Thank you , ' said Ethel , ` I should like to be quiet till the evening , if you will let me off . 
` I want to think too , ' said Ethel . 
And quiet it was in another hour -- Gertrude walking with the nurses , Dr. May gone to his patients , and all the rest at Abbotstoke , except Richard and Margaret down-stairs ; and Ethel , who , while arranging her properties in her new room , had full leisure to lay out before herself the duties that had devolved on her , and to grapple with them . 
She recalled the many counsels that she had received from Flora , and they sounded so bewildering , that she wished it had been Conic sections , and then she looked at a Hebrew grammar that Norman had given her , and gave a sigh as she slipped it into the shelf of the seldom used . 
Ethel had often had to give up this space before , when Flora went out in the evening , and she had seldom felt otherwise than annoyed . 
Ethel May 's last of all . 
Her rules drawn up , Ethel knelt once more . 
Then she drew a long sigh , and wondered where Flora was ; and next , as she was fairly fagged , mind and body , she threw herself back in the armchair , took up a railway novel that Hector had brought home , and which they had hidden from the children , and repaired herself with the luxury of an idle reading . 
Ethel would bear all those things as if they did not exist -- I could not . ' 
Papa and Ethel are all the world to each other -- Richard , I may say it to you -- There has been only one thing more hard to bear than that -- Do n't suppose there was a moment 's neglect , or disregard ; but when first I understood that Ethel could be more to him than I -- then I could not always feel rightly . 
` He does not know it is so , ' said Margaret ; ` I am his first care , I fear , his second grief ; but it is not in the nature of things that Ethel should not be more his comfort and companion . 
I am glad it was not she who married ! 
What shall we do when she goes ? ' 
They went off to praise Ethel , and thence to praise Norman , and the elder brother and sister , who might have had some jealousy of the superiority of their juniors , spent a good happy hour in dwelling on the shining qualities they loved so heartily . 
So they sat till darkness closed in , when Ethel came down , bringing Gertrude and her great favour , very full of chatter , only not quite sure whether she had been bride , bridemaid , or bridegroom . 
-- It was not half told when Dr. May came home , and Ethel went up to dress for her dinner at Abbotstoke , Mary following to help her , and continue her narration , which bade fair to entertain Margaret the whole evening . 
Dr. May , Richard , and Ethel , had a comfortable dark drive to the Grange , and , on arriving , found Hector deep in `` Wild Sports of the West , '' while Norman and Meta were sitting over the fire talking , and Mr. Rivers was resting in his library . 
And when Ethel and Meta spent the time before the gentlemen came in from the dining-room , in a happy tête à tête , Ethel learnt that the fire-light dialogue had been the pleasantest part of the whole day , and that Meta had had confided to her the existence of Decius Mus -- a secret which Ethel had hitherto considered as her own peculiar property , but she supposed it was a pledge of the sisterhood , which Meta professed with all the house of May . 
If she talked of the poem as the devotion of Decius , he was willing enough , and worked with spirit , for he liked the ideas , and enjoyed the expressing them , and trying to bring his lines to his notion of perfection , but if she called it the `` Newdigate , '' or the `` Prize Poem , '' and declared herself sure it would be successful , he yawned , slackened , leant back in his chair , and began to read other people 's poetry , which Ethel was disrespectful enough not to think nearly as good as his own . 
It was completed at last , and Ethel stitched it up with a narrow red and white ribbon -- the Balliol colours ; and set Meta at him till a promise was extorted that he would send it in . 
And , in due time , Ethel received the following note : My dear Ethel , -- My peacock bubble has flown over the house . 
They were too much accustomed to Norman 's successes to be extraordinarily excited ; Ethel would have been much mortified if the prize had been awarded to anyone else , but , as it was , it came rather as a matter of course . 
As soon as she heard of Norman 's success , she wrote a whole budget of letters , declaring that she and George would hear of no refusal ; they were going to spend a fortnight at Oxford for the Commemoration , and must have Meta and Ethel with them to hear Norman 's poem in the theatre . 
Dr. May , who already had expressed a hankering to run up for the day , and take Ethel with him , was perfectly delighted at the proposal , and so was Mr. Rivers , but the young ladies made many demurs . 
Ethel wanted Mary to go in her stead , and had to be told that this would not be by any means the same to the other parties -- she could not bear to leave Margaret ; it was a long time since there had been letters from the Alcestis , and she did not like to miss being at home when they should come ; and Meta , on her side , was so unwilling to leave her father , that , at last , Dr. May scolded them both for a pair of conceited , self-important damsels , who thought nothing could go on without them ; and next , compared them to young birds , obliged to be shoved by force into flying . 
Meta consented first , on condition that Ethel would ; and Ethel found that her whole house would be greatly disappointed if she refused , so she proceeded to be grateful , and then discovered how extremely delightful the plan was . 
Oxford , of which she had heard so much , and which she had always wished to see ! 
They arrived by a railroad , whose station was nearer to Abbotstoke than to Stoneborough , therefore , instead of their visiting the High-street by the way , Dr. May , with Ethel , and Mary , were invited to dine at the Grange , the first evening -- a proposal , at least , as new and exciting to Mary , as was the journey to Oxford , to her sister . 
The two girls went early , as the travellers had intended to arrive before luncheon , and , though Ethel said few words , but let Mary rattle on with a stream of conjectures and questions , her heart was full of longings for her sister , as well as of strange doubts and fears , as to the change that her new life might have made in her . 
Ethel kissed her without so much violence , and then saw that Flora was looking very well and bright , more decidedly pretty and elegant than ever , and with certainly no diminution of affection ; it was warmer , though rather more patronizing . 
was her first exclamation , as she held Mary 's hand , and drew Ethel 's arm into hers . 
Have you broken down yet , Ethel ? ' 
we do go on , ' said Ethel , smiling ; the worst thing I have done was expecting James to dress the salads with lamp-oil . ' 
Ethel , you would have been wild with delight in those places ! ' 
` Pretty well , ' said Ethel . 
` That is always your way -- ' ` Why , one can not give the poor thing quite up , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel here bethought herself of enquiring after Mr. Rivers , and then for George . 
said Ethel , carelessly . 
said Ethel . 
I dare say she dresses quite as well ; and the things are too really pretty and simple for an English maid 's taste . ' 
said Ethel , beginning to be frightened . 
But I have not got four backs , ' as Ethel saw Meta in fits of laughing , and Flora making affirmative signs . 
` I 'm sure I see no harm in myself , ' said Ethel , turning towards the pier-glass , and surveying herself -- in a white muslin , made high , a black silk mantle , and a brown hat . 
She had felt very respectable when she set out , but she could not avoid a lurking conviction that , beside Flora and Meta , it had a scanty , school-girl effect . 
` Ethel ! 
The former , who was quite used to adorning Miss Ethel against her will , looked as amused as her mistresses ; and , before Ethel knew what was going on , her muslin was stripped off her back , and that instrument of torture , a half made body , was being tried upon her . 
She made one of her most wonderful grimaces of despair , and stood still ! 
It was very kind and thoughtful of Flora -- that she could not but feel -- nothing had been forgotten , but when Ethel saw the mantles , the ribbons , the collars , the bonnet , all glistening with the French air of freshness and grace , she began to feel doubts and hesitations , whether she ought to let her sister go to such an expense on her account , and privately resolved that the accepting thanks should not be spoken , till she should have consulted her father . 
In the meantime , she could only endure , be laughed at by her elders , and entertained by Mary 's extreme pleasure in her array . 
There was a Paris present for every servant at home , and a needle-case even for Cherry Elwood , for which Ethel thanked her with a fervency wanting in her own case . 
She accomplished consulting her father on her scruples , and he set her mind at rest . 
He knew that the outlay was a mere trifle to the Riverses , and was greatly pleased and touched with the affection that Flora showed ; so he only smiled at Ethel 's doubts , and dwelt with heartfelt delight on the beautiful print , that she had brought him from Ary Scheffer 's picture of the Great Consoler . 
He was much more animated and agreeable than Ethel had ever seen him , and was actually laughing , and making Mary laugh heartily with his histories of the inns in the Pyrennees . 
Ethel told Margaret , that night , that she was quite satisfied about Flora -- she was glad to own that she had done her injustice , and that Norman was right in saying there was more in George Rivers than met the eye . 
Ethel met the Abbotstoke party at the station , and , with a parting injunction to her father , that he was to give all his patients a sleeping potion , that they might not miss him , she was carried away from Stoneborough . 
Meta was in her gayest mood ; Ethel full of glee and wonder , for once beyond Whitford , the whole world was new to her ; Flora more quiet , but greatly enjoying their delight , and George not saying much , but smiling under his beard , as if well pleased to be so well amused with so little trouble . 
said Ethel , ` the Master of Glenbracken ! 
` This man might be called the Master of Glenbracken at home , ' said Ethel . 
-- and Ethel thought he seemed nervous at the idea of this addition to his audience . 
Ethel watched collegiate figures passing in the street , and recollected the grey buildings , just glimpsed at in her drive -- it was dreamy and confused , and she stood musing , not discovering that it was time to dress , till Flora , and her Frenchwoman , came in , and laid violent hands on her . 
Ethel was made to look well-dressed , and , still more , distinguished . 
Her height told well , when her lankiness was overcome , and her hair was disposed so as to set off her features to advantage . 
The glow of amusement and pleasure did still more for her ; and Norman , who was in the parlour when the sisters appeared , quite started with surprise and satisfaction at her aspect . 
` Ethel is very much obliged to you . 
He was a pleasant , high-bred looking gentleman , brown-complexioned , and dark-eyed , with a brisk and resolute cast of countenance , that , Ethel thought , might have suited the Norman of Glenbracken , who died on the ruddy Lion of Scotland , and speaking with the very same slight degree of Scottish intonation as she remembered in her mother , making a most home-like sound in her ears . 
However , he had learnt the use of his tongue by this time , though it was a very soft one ; and he stood by Ethel , asking many questions about Stoneborough , while something , apparently very spirited and amusing , was going on between the others . 
The young men began to strike out sparks of wit against each other -- Flora put in a word or two -- Ethel grew so much interested in the discussion , that her face lighted up , and she joined in it , as if it had been only between her father and brother -- keen , clear , and droll . 
After that , she had her full share in the conversation , and enjoyed it so much that , when she left the dinner-table , she fetched her writing-case , to sketch the colloquy , for Margaret and her father . 
Ethel was soon interrupted -- the gentlemen entered , and Mr. Ogilvie came to the window , where she was sitting , and began to tell her how much obliged to her he and his College were , for having insisted on her brother 's sending in his poem . 
she asked , and she was amused by the quick negative movement of his head . 
` If they can not tell themselves , ' said Ethel , smiling , ` I do n't think they deserve the name . ' 
No doubt you have a copy here -- made by yourself -- ' and he looked towards her paper-case . 
There was the copy , and she took it out , peering to see whether Norman were looking . 
` Let me see , ' he said , as she paused to open the MS. , ` he told me the thoughts were more yours than his own . ' 
Here Mr. Ogilvie took the paper , and Ethel saw his countenance shew evident tokens of surprise and feeling . 
` I should like it better if they did not , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` I do not call it a low motive -- ' Her pause was expressive . 
said Ethel . 
was all that Ethel could say in her indignation . 
called Norman , ` are you fighting Scottish and English battles with Ethel there ? 
Ethel was not sorry , for he interested her much , while provoking her . 
She was obliged to put out her full strength in answering him , and felt , at the same time , that he was not making any effort in using the arguments that puzzled her -- she was in earnest , while he was at play ; and , though there was something teasing in this , and she knew it partook of what her brothers called chaffing , it gave her that sense of power on his side , which is always attractive to women . 
With the knowledge , that through Norman , she had of his real character , she understood that half , at least , of what he said , was jest ; and the other half was enough in earnest to make it exciting to argue with him . 
That was a week of weeks ; the most memorable week in Ethel 's life , spent in indefatigable sight-seeing . 
College Chapels , Bodleian Library , Taylor Gallery , the Museum , all were thoroughly studied , and , if Flora had not dragged the party on , in mercy to poor George 's patience , Ethel would never have got through a day 's work . 
Indeed , Mr. Ogilvie , when annoyed at being hurried in going over Merton Chapel with her , was heard to whisper that he acted the part of policeman , by a perpetual `` move on ; '' and as Ethel recollected the portly form and wooden face of the superintendent at Stoneborough , she was afraid that the comparison would not soon be forgotten . 
Ethel laughed in answer , and said , she thought it would take a great deal more strength of mind to go about with her whole visage exposed to the universal gaze ; and , woman like , they had a thorough gossip over the evils of the `` back-sliding '' head-gear . 
Ethel valued this testimony far above the Newdigate prize , and she was extremely surprised by hearing Flora declare her intention of still asking Mr. Anderson to dinner , only consulting her brother as to the day . 
` Norman is wiser than you are , Ethel , ' said Flora . 
` I do not think it right , ' said Ethel , stoutly ; ` I believe that a a line ought to be drawn , and that we ought not to associate with people who openly tamper with their faith . ' 
Ethel felt the force of the pronoun , and , as Flora walked out of the room , she went up to Norman , who had been resting his brow against the window . 
Had Ethel been at home , she would have pondered much over her brother 's meaning -- here she had no leisure . 
Not only was she fully occupied with the new scenes around , but her Scottish cousin took up every moment open to conversation . 
Though industrious and distinguished , he had not avoided society or amusement , was a great cricketer and tennis-player , one of the `` eight '' whose success in the boat-races was one of Norman 's prime interests , and he told stories of frolics that reminded Ethel of her father 's old Cambridge adventures . 
He was a new variety in her eyes , and entertained her greatly . 
Where the bounds of banter ended , was not easy to define , but whenever he tried a little mystification , she either entered merrily into the humour , or threw it over with keen wit that he kept constantly on the stretch . 
At Blenheim , perhaps he thought he had given an overdose of nonsense , and made her believe , as Meta really did , that the Duchess Sarah was his model woman ; for as they walked in the park in search of Phoebe Mayflower 's well , he gathered a fern leaf , to shew her the Glenbracken badge , and talked to her of his home , his mother , and his sister Marjorie , and the little Church in the rocky glen . 
Thereupon came vivid descriptions of the scenery , especially his own glen with the ruined tower , and ardent wishes that his cousin Ethel could see them also , and know Marjorie . 
Flora looked on amused and pleased at Ethel 's development -- her abruptness softened into piquancy , and her countenance so embellished , that the irregularity only added to the expressiveness . 
There was no saying what Ethel would come to ! 
She had not said that she would not go to the intended ball , and her grimaces at the mention of it were growing fainter every day . 
The discussion about Harvey Anderson was never revived ; Flora sent the invitation without another word -- he came with half-a-dozen other gentlemen -- Ethel made him a civil greeting , but her head was full of boats and the procession day , about which Mr. Ogilvie was telling her , and she thought of him no more . 
` A grand thing for Ethel -- a capital connection for us all . 
They had begun altogether by comparing feelings -- Ethel wondering whether Stoneborough Minster would ever be used as it might be , and whether , if so , they should be practically the better for it ; and proceeding with metaphysics on her side , and satire on Norman Ogilvie 's , to speculate whether that which is , is best , and the rights and wrongs of striving for change and improvements , what should begin from above , and what from beneath -- with illustrations often laughter-moving , though they were much in earnest , as the young heir of Glenbracken looked into his future life . 
Ethel would not have rested till it had been fought out . 
Meta thought it so imaginary , that it had better die for want of the aliment of words ; certainly , hers could not reach an intellect like his , and she would only soothe and amuse him . 
He talked as if they had all flourished the better for Ethel 's absence , but he had evidently missed her greatly , as he shewed , without knowing it , by his instant eagerness to have her to himself . 
There was proud affection , eager congratulation , for him , but it was Ethel to whom he wanted to tell everything that had passed during her absence -- whom he treated as if they were meeting after a tedious separation . 
Norman and Ethel had been anxious for this ; they thought it would give their father the best idea of the tout ensemble of Oxford , and were not without hopes of beating him by his own confession , in that standing fight between him and his sons , as to the beauties of Oxford and Cambridge -- a fight in which , hitherto , they had been equally matched -- neither partizan having seen the rival University . 
Dr. May held out his arm to Ethel -- Norman secured his peculiar property . 
Ethel could have preferred that it should be otherwise -- Norman would have no companion but George Rivers ; how bored he would be ! 
All through the streets , while she was telling her father the names of the buildings , she was not giving her whole attention ; she was trying to guess , from the sounds behind , whether Mr. Ogilvie were accompanying them . 
They amalgamated again -- all the Oxonians conspiring to say spiteful things of the Cam , and Dr. May making a spirited defence , in which Ethel found herself impelled to join . 
Mr. Ogilvie came to Ethel 's other side , and began to point out all the various notabilities . 
Ethel was happy again ; her father was so much pleased and amused , with him , and he with her father , that it was a treat to look on . 
Presently , Dr. May , as usual , always meeting with acquaintances , fell in with a county neighbour , and Ethel had another pleasant aside , until her father claimed her , and Mr. Ogilvie was absorbed among another party , and lost to her sight . 
He came to tea , but , by that time , Dr. May had established himself in the chair , which had , hitherto , been appropriated to her cousin , a chair that cut her nook off from the rest of the world , and made her the exclusive possession of the occupant . 
There was a most interesting history for her to hear , of a meeting with the Town Council , which she had left pending , when Dr. May had been battling to save the next presentation of the living from being sold . 
Few subjects could affect Ethel more nearly , yet she caught herself missing the thread of his discourse , in trying to hear what Mr. Ogilvie was saying to Flora about a visit to Glenbracken . 
When he said good-night , he drew Ethel outside the door . 
` Ethel , ' he said , ` only one thing : do ask my father not to put on his spectacles to-morrow . ' 
` Very well , ' said Ethel , half smiling ; ` Richard did not mind them . ' 
` Never mind , ' said he to Ethel , ` I 'll take care of him . 
Meta wondered that Ethel should have mentioned the request so publicly ; she was a good deal touched by it , and she thought Dr. May ought to be so . 
Good-night was said , and Dr. May put his arm round Ethel , and gave her the kiss that she had missed for seven nights . 
It was very homelike , and it brought a sudden flash of thought across Ethel ! 
Norman had said he liked her pink bonnet , and then she could put down her white veil , so that he could be certain that she was not looking ; Ethel vaguely believed Flora meant her to wear -- something -- Bellairs went away , and Meta gave expression to her eager hope that Norman would go through it well . 
If he would only read it , as he did last Easter to her and Ethel . 
` He will , ' said Ethel . 
` It was once in his nature , ' said Ethel ; ` and I think it is the fault he most beats down . 
` How very good he is , Ethel ; one sees it more when he is with other people , and one hears all these young men 's stories ! ' 
` Everything Norman does not do , is not therefore wrong , ' said Ethel , with her usual lucidity of expression . 
` No , he is too good to condemn -- ' ` It is not only that , ' said Ethel . 
` Yes , ' said Meta , remembering the Sunday talk , ` but still , he would not be all he is -- so different from others -- ' ` Of course , I do n't mean less good , only , less grave , ' said Ethel , ` and certainly less nervous . 
At first , Ethel blamed herself for her secret impatience , but another conviction crossed her , and not an unpleasing one , though it made her cheeks tingle with maidenly shame , at having called it up . 
Throughout this week , Norman Ogilvie had certainly sought her out . 
He had looked disappointed this evening -- there was no doubt that he was attracted by her -- by her , plain , awkward Ethel ! 
Such a perception assuredly never gave so much pleasure to a beauty as it did to Ethel , who had always believed herself far less good-looking than she really was . 
It was a gleam of delight , and , though she set herself to scold it down , the conviction was elastic , and always leapt up again . 
That resolution came before her , but it had been unspoken ; it could not be binding , and , if her notion were really right , the misty brilliant future of mutual joy dazzled her ! 
But there was another side : her father oppressed and lonely , Margaret ill and pining , Mary , neither companion nor authority , the children running wild ; and she , who had mentally vowed never to forsake her father , far away , enjoying her own happiness . 
that resolve had seemed easy enough when it was made , when , ' thought Ethel , ` I fancied no one could care for me ! 
It was a great struggle -- on one side there was the deceitful guise of modesty , telling her it was absurd to give so much importance to the kindness of the first cousin , with whom she had ever been thrown ; there was the dislike to vex Flora to make a discussion , and break up the party . 
was the ultimatum reached by each chain of mental reasonings , and borne in after each short prayer for guidance , as Ethel tossed about listening to the perpetual striking of all the Oxford clocks , until daylight had begun to shine in ; when she fell asleep , and was only waked by Meta , standing over her with a sponge , looking very mischievous , as she reminded her of their appointment with Dr. May , to go to the early service in New College Chapel . 
The world looked different that morning with Ethel , but the determination was fixed , and the service strengthened it . 
She was so silent during the walk , that her companions rallied her , and they both supposed she was anxious about Norman ; but taking her opportunity , when Meta was gone to prepare for breakfast , she rushed , in her usual way , into the subject . 
Ethel smiled . 
it is all a homesick fit , Ethel -- never fear the ball . 
Both were silent on the subject at breakfast , but when afterwards Flora seized on Ethel , to array her for the theatre , she was able to say , ` Flora , please do n't be angry with me -- you have been very kind to me , but I mean to go home with papa to-morrow . ' 
` I do n't know what you mean , ' said Ethel , becoming scarlet . 
said Ethel , firmly , not denying the charge , though reddening more than ever at finding her impression confirmed . 
she is afraid ! ' 
said Flora , tenderly ; ` but I will take care of you , Ethel . 
` I know papa will not be happy without me , and I will not leave him , ' repeated Ethel , not answering the argument . 
Meta came in before Flora could say more , but Ethel , with burning cheeks , repeated , ` It will be safer ! ' 
Ethel had , meantime , been dressed by her sister ; and , as Bellairs came to adorn Meta , and she could have no solitude , she went down stairs , thinking she heard Norman 's step , and hoping to judge of his mood . 
She entered the room with an exclamation -- ` O Norman ! ' 
asked Ethel , anxiously . 
` Oh , I know them , ' said Ethel . 
` Very odd , ' continued her cousin ; ` when the end always is , that he says he has the luck of being set on in the very place he knows best . 
said Ethel , glancing towards the paper , ` Is there any naval intelligence ? ' 
He looked ; and while she was thinking whether she ought not to depart , he exclaimed , in a tone that startled her , ` Ha ! 
See , it is merely this -- she has not come into Sydney so soon as expected , which you knew before . 
` Let me see , ' said the trembling Ethel . 
It was no more than an echo of their unconfessed apprehensions , yet it seemed to give them a body ; and Ethel 's thoughts flew to Margaret . 
Her going home would be absolutely necessary now . 
Mr. Ogilvie kindly began to talk away her alarm , saying that there was still no reason for dread , mentioning the many causes that might have delayed the ship , and re-assuring her greatly . 
she said . 
Ethel would fain have thrown off her finery and hurried home at once , but no one regarded the matter as she did . 
Dr. May agreed with Flora , that it was no worse than before , and though they now thought Ethel 's return desirable , on Margaret 's account , it would be better not to add to the shock by a sudden arrival , especially as they took in no daily paper at home . 
So the theatre was not to be given up , nor any of the subsequent plans , except so far as regarded Ethel ; and , this agreed , they started for the scene of action . 
Ethel resolutely adhered to her father , and her cousin took care of Meta , who had been clinging in a tiptoe manner to the point of her brother 's high elbow , looking as if the crowd might easily brush off such a little fly , without his missing her . 
There was the swarm of gay ladies , around them , and beneath the area , fast being paved with heads , black , brown , grey and bald , a surging living sea , where Meta soon pointed out Dr. May and George ; the mere sight of such masses of people was curious and interesting , reminding Ethel of Cherry Elwood having once shocked her by saying the Whitmonday club was the most beautiful sight in the whole year . 
Ethel and Meta could , at first , have found it in their hearts to be frightened at those thundering shouts , but the young ladies were usually of opinions so similar , that the louder grew the cheers , the more they laughed and exulted , so carried along , that no cares could be remembered . 
Then came the introduction of the honorary Doctors , one by one , with the Latin speech , which Ethel 's companions unreasonably required her to translate to them , while she was using all her ears to catch a word or two , and her eyes to glimpse at the features of men of note . 
By-and-by , a youth made his appearance in the rostrum , and a good deal of Latin ensued , of which Flora hoped Ethel was less tired of than she was . 
In time , however , Meta saw the spectacles removed , and George looking straight up , and she drew down her veil , and took hold of Flora 's hand , and Ethel flushed like a hot coal . 
The world was tired , and people were departing , so that the first lines were lost , perhaps a satisfaction to Norman , but his voice soon cleared and became louder , his eyes lighted , and Ethel knew the `` funny state '' had come to his relief -- people 's attention was arrested -- there was no more going away -- It was well that Norman was ignorant of the fears for Harry , for four lines had been added since Ethel had seen the poem , saying how self-sacrifice sent forth the sailor-boy from home , to the lone watch , the wave and storm , his spirit rising high , ere manhood braced his form . 
Applause did not come where Ethel had expected it ; and , at first , there was silence at the close , but , suddenly , the acclamations rose with deafening loudness , though hardly what greets some poems with more to catch the popular ear . 
Ethel 's great excitement was over , and presently she found herself outside of the theatre , a shower falling , and an umbrella held over her by Mr. Ogilvie , who was asking her if it was not admirable , and declaring the poem might rank with Heber 's Palestine , or Milman 's Apollo . 
They were bound for a great luncheon at one of the Colleges , where Ethel might survey the Principal with whom Miss Rich had corresponded . 
Mr. Ogilvie sat next to her , told her all the names , and quizzed the dignitaries , but she had a sense of depression , and did not wish to enter into the usual strain of banter . 
He dropped his lively tone ; and drew her out about Harry , till she was telling eagerly of her dear sailor brother , and found him so sympathizing and considerate , that she did not like him less ; though she felt her intercourse with him a sort of intoxication , that would only make it the worse for her by-and-by . 
During that whole luncheon , and their walk through the gardens , where there was a beautiful horticultural show , something was always prompting her to say , while in this quasi-privacy , that she was on the eve of departure , but she kept her resolution against it -- she thought it would have been an unwarrantable experiment . 
He roused himself as they came in , and , to avoid any compliments on his own performance , began -- ` Well , Ethel , are you ready for the ball ? ' 
` We shall spare her the ball , ' said Dr. May ; ` there is a report about the Alcestis , in the newspaper , that may make Margaret uncomfortable , and this good sister will not stay away from her . ' 
` At five , ' said Ethel . 
While this was going on , Mr. Ogilvie looked at Ethel in consternation , and said , ` Are you really going home ? ' 
He looked down -- Ethel had the resolution to walk away . 
Flora could not give up the ball , and Meta found that she must go ; but both the Normans spent a quiet evening with Dr. May and Ethel . 
Ethel was provoked and ashamed at the throbs that it would excite . 
-- When alone with her father , she began to nerve herself for something heroic , and great was her shame when she heard only of her cousin 's kind consideration for her brother , whom he wished to take home with him , and thence to see the Highlands , so as to divert his anxiety for Harry , as well as to call him off from the studies with which he had this term overworked himself even more than usual . 
Dr. May had given most grateful consent , and he spoke highly in praise of the youth ; but there was no more to come , and Ethel could have beaten herself for the moment of anticipation . 
Meta came home , apologizing for wakening Ethel -- but Ethel had not been asleep . 
The ball had not , it seemed , been as charming to her as most events were , and Ethel heard a sigh , as the little lady lay down in her bed . 
Late as it was when she went to rest , Meta rose to see the travellers off -- she sent hosts of messages to her father , and wished she might go with them . 
Ethel had hoped it was over , yet she could not be sorry that the two youths escorted them to the station , and , as Ethel was placed in the carriage , she believed that she heard something of never forgetting -- happiest week -- but in the civilities which the other occupant of the carriage was offering for the accommodation of their lesser luggage , she lost the exact words , and the last she heard were , `` Good bye -- I hope you will find letters at home . '' 
She had wakened to the inside of a Great Western carriage , her father beside her , and opposite a thin , foreign-looking gentleman . 
Her father , to whom her life was to be devoted ! 
She looked at his profile , defined against the window , and did not repent . 
In a sort of impulse to do something for him , she took his hat from his hand , and was going to dispose of it in the roof , when he turned , smiling his thanks , but saying , ` it was not worth while -- this carriage was a very transitory resting-place . ' 
cried Dr. May , in a voice of equal amazement and joy , holding out his hand , which was grasped and wrung with a force that made Ethel shrink for the poor maimed arm . 
Three technical words were spoken in a matter of fact way , as Dr. May replaced his hand in his bosom , and then , with an eager smile , said , ` Ethel , here ! 
Ethel had indeed , and gave her hand cordially , surprised by the bow and air of deferential politeness with which it was received , like a favour , while Dr. Spencer asked her whether she had been staying in Oxford . 
You think me very disrespectful to your father , ' added he , turning to Ethel , ` but you see what old times are . ' 
` I know , ' said Ethel , with a bright look . 
said Ethel , eagerly . 
Ethel 's thoughts were diverted from all she had left at Oxford . 
She could not but watch those two old friends . 
She knew enough of the traveller to enter into her father 's happiness , and to have no fears of another Sir Matthew . 
His voice was clear and sweet , and his manner most refined and polished ; indeed , his courtesy to Ethel , whenever there was a change of carriage , was so exemplary , that she understood it as the effect on a chivalrous mind , of living where a lady was a rare and precious article . 
It frightened Ethel a little at first , but , before the end of the journey , she had already begun to feel , towards him , like an old friend -- one of those inheritances , who are so much valued and loved , like a sort of uncles-in-friendship . 
She had an especial grateful honour for the delicate tact which asked no questions , as she saw his eye often falling anxiously on her father 's left hand , where the wedding ring shone upon the little finger . 
Ethel , take care of him , and introduce him . 
He was driven off at speed , and Ethel proposed to walk home . 
Dr. Spencer gave her his arm , and was silent ; but presently said , in a low , anxious voice , ` My dear , you must forgive me , I have heard nothing for many years . 
Your mother -- ' ` It was an accident , ' said Ethel , looking straight before her . 
` She was killed on the spot , ' said Ethel , speaking shortly , and abruptly . 
If she was to say it at all , she could not do so otherwise . 
He was dreadfully shocked -- she knew it by the shudder of his arm , and a tight , suppressed groan . 
He did not speak , and Ethel , as if a relief from the silence must be made , said what was not very consoling , and equally blunt , ` Margaret had some harm done to her spine -- she can not walk . ' 
He did not seem to hear , but walked on , as in a dream , where Ethel guided him , and she would not interrupt him again . 
said Ethel . 
` We hope not , ' said Ethel , kindly -- ` we saw a Captain at Oxford who thought it not at all to be depended on . ' 
` I am so glad , ' said Edward ; and , shaking hands , he went back to his high stool , Ethel feeling that he deserved the pains that Norman had taken to spare and befriend him . 
She spoke to her companion in explanation . 
` He is not unhappy , ' said Ethel , not sorry that they had arrived at the back entrance of the shrubbery . 
` No , ' she said , ` or rather , I gave you more . ' 
` I knew her -- ' and there he broke off , paused for a minute , then collecting himself , seemed resolutely to turn away from the subject , and said , walking on , ` This garden is not much altered . ' 
said Dr. Spencer , looking at Ethel , and the next two steps brought them in view of the play-place in the laurels , where Aubrey lay on the ground , feigning sleep , but keeping a watchful eye over Blanche , who was dropping something into the holes of inverted flower pots , Gertrude dancing about in a way that seemed to have called for the reproof of the more earnest actors . 
` Ethel ! 
Ethel ! 
screamed the children , with one voice , and , while the two girls stood in shyness at her companion , Aubrey had made a dart at her neck , and hung upon her , arms , legs , body , and all , like a wild cat . ' 
` And I have finished Vipera et lima , Ethel , but Margaret makes such false quantities ! ' 
exclaimed Blanche , seizing on Ethel , and whispering , ` Is it really the boy that climbed the market cross ? ' 
` You see your fame lives here , ' said Ethel , smiling , as Dr. Spencer evidently heard . 
said Ethel to Dr. Spencer . 
` I am all of them , ' said the innocent , daisy-faced Gertrude ; and Ethel hastened towards the house , glad of the permission granted by his true good-breeding . 
Ethel was certain that no evil tidings had come to her eldest sister , so joyous was her exclamation of wonder and rebuke to her home-sick Ethel . 
` So I was , ' said Ethel , hastily ; ` but who do you think I have brought home ? ' 
Margaret flushed with such a pink , that Ethel resolved never to set her guessing again , and hurried to explain ; and having heard that all was well , and taken her housekeeping measures , she proceeded to fetch the guest ; but Mary , who had been unusually silent all this time , ran after her , and checked her . 
` Ethel , have you heard ? ' 
she said . 
said Ethel . 
But , Ethel , does papa believe it ? ' 
Poor Mary 's full lip swelled , and her eyes swam , ready to laugh of weep , in full faith in her sister 's answer . 
Ethel told of Meta 's captain , and the smile predominated , and settled down into Mary 's usual broad beamy look , like a benignant rising sun on the sign of an inn , as Ethel praised her warmly for a fortitude and consideration of which she had not thought her capable . 
He certainly made them so , but Ethel , remembering what a blow her disclosures had been , thought it would be only a kindness to send Aubrey to show him to his room , where he might have some peace . 
She was not sorry to be very busy , so as to have little time to reply to the questions on the doings at Oxford , and the cause of her sudden return ; and yet it would have been a comfort to be able to sit down to understand herself , and recall her confused thoughts . 
But solitary reflection was a thing only to be hoped for in that house in bed , and Ethel was obliged to run up and down , and attend to everybody , under an undefined sense that she had come home to a dull , anxious world of turmoil . 
She gave Ethel no credit for the sacrifice , naturally supposing that she could not enjoy herself away from home . 
Ethel did not know whether to be glad or not ; she was relieved , but it was flat . 
As to Norman Ogilvie , one or two inquiries whether she liked him , and if Norman were going to Scotland with him , were all that passed , and it was very provoking to be made so hot and conscious by them . 
She could not begin to dress till late , and while she was unpacking , she heard her father come home , among the children 's loud welcomes , and go to the drawing-room . 
I think nothing of it myself -- ' Nevertheless , Ethel saw that he could not trust himself to broach the subject to Margaret . 
I say , Ethel , that was a happy consequence of your coming home with me . ' 
I could not tell you what I owed to him as a boy -- all my life , I may say -- Ethel , ' he added , suddenly ; ` we must do our best to make him happy here . 
asked Ethel , bewildered . 
` She never had an idea of it ; but I might have guessed from what fell from him unconsciously , for not a word would he have said -- nor did he say , to show how he sacrificed himself ! ' 
said Ethel , beginning to collect his meaning . 
` No , Ethel , it was your own dear mother ! 
` So am I , ' said Ethel . 
I remembered , after we parted , that he might know nothing -- ' ` He asked me , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel told , and the tears filled her father 's eyes . 
And now , Ethel , you see what manner of man we have here , and how we ought to treat him . ' 
Ah , Ethel , Sir Matthew Fleet never came near him in ability . 
But not one word to interfere with me , would he say , and -- how I have longed to meet him again , after parting in my selfish , unfeeling gladness ; and now I have nothing to do for him , but shew him how little I was to be trusted with her . ' 
Ethel never knew how to deal with these occasional bursts of grief , but she said that she thought Dr. Spencer was very much pleased to have met with him , and delighted with the children . 
well , you are her children , ' said Dr. May , with his hand on Ethel 's shoulder . 
` Ethel has introduced you , I see , ' said Dr. May . 
Aubrey privately went to Ethel , to ask her if this were possible ; and she had to reassure him , by telling him that they were ` only in fun . ' 
Aubrey had recovered sufficiently to observe to Blanche , ` that was almost as bad as Ulysses , ' which , being overheard and repeated , led to the information that he was Ethel 's pupil , whereupon Dr. Spencer began to inquire after the school , and to exclaim at his friend for having deserted it in the person of Tom . 
said Ethel . 
Ethel overcame the difficulty of giving the account of the newspaper alarm , with tolerable success , by putting the story of Meta 's conversation foremost . 
The truth was perhaps that Dr. Spencer 's visit was to everyone more of an excitement and amusement than it was to Ethel . 
Not that she did not like him extremely , but after such a week as she had been spending , the home-world seemed rather stale and unprofitable . 
Miss Bracy relapsed into a state of `` feelings , '' imagining perhaps that Ethel had distrusted her capabilities , and therefore returned ; or as Ethel herself sometimes feared , there might be an irritability in her own manner that gave cause of annoyance . 
The children were inclined to be riotous with their new friend , who made much of them continually , and especially patronized Aubrey ; Mary was proud of shewing how much she had learnt to do for Margaret in her sister 's absence ; Dr. May was so much taken up with his friend , that Ethel saw less of him than usual , and she began to believe that it had been all a mistake that everyone was so dependant on her , for , in fact , they did much better without her . 
Meantime , she heard of the gaieties which the others were enjoying , and she could not feel heroic when they regretted her . 
At the end of a week , Meta Rivers was escorted home from Warwick by two servants , and came to Stoneborough , giving a lively description of all the concluding pleasures , but declaring that Ethel 's departure had taken away the zest of the whole , and Mr. Ogilvie had been very disconsolate . 
Margaret had not been prepared to hear that Mr. Ogilvie had been so constant a companion , and was struck by finding that Ethel had passed over one who had evidently been so great an ingredient in the delights of the expedition . 
Meta had , however , observed nothing -- she was a great deal too simple and too much engrossed for such notions to have crossed her mind ; but Margaret inferred something , and hoped to learn more when she should see Flora . 
Ethel fought hard with her own petulance and sense of tedium at home , which was , as she felt , particularly uncalled for at present ; when Dr. Spencer was enlivening them so much . 
Ethel knew she ought to be happy also , and if attention could make her so , she had it , for kind and courteous as Dr. Spencer was to all , she seemed to have a double charm for him . 
It was as if he found united in her the quaint brusquerie , that he had loved in her father , with somewhat of her mother ; for though Ethel had less personal resemblance to Mrs. May than any other of the family , Dr. Spencer transferred to her much of the chivalrous distant devotion , with which he had regarded her mother . 
Ethel was very little conscious of it , but he was certainly her sworn knight , and there was an eagerness in his manner of performing every little service for her , a deference in his way of listening to her , over and above his ordinary polish of manner . 
Ethel lighted up , and enjoyed herself when talking was going on -- her periods of ennui were when she had to set about any home employment -- when Aubrey 's lessons did not go well -- when she wanted to speak to her father , and could not catch him ; and even when she had to go to Cocksmoor . 
She did not seem to make any progress there -- the room was very full , and very close , the children were dull , and she began to believe she was doing no good -- it was all a weariness . 
But she was so heartily ashamed of her feelings , that she worked the more vehemently for them , and the utmost shew that they outwardly made was , that Margaret thought her less vivacious than her wont , and she was a little too peremptory at times with Mary and Blanche . 
She had so much disliked the display that Flora had made about Cocksmoor , that she had imposed total silence on it upon her younger sisters , and Dr. Spencer had spent a fortnight at Stoneborough without being aware of their occupation ; when there occurred such an extremely sultry day , that Margaret remonstrated with Ethel on her intention of broiling herself and Mary by walking to Cocksmoor , when the quicksilver stood at 80 ° in the shade . 
Ethel was much inclined to stay at home , but she did not know whether this was from heat or from idleness , and her fretted spirits took the turn of determination -- so she posted off at a gallopping pace , that her brothers called her ` Cocksmoor speed , ' and Mary panted by her side , humbly petitioning for the plantation path , when she answered ` that it was as well to be hot in the sun as in the shade . ' 
Nevertheless , Ethel sat down and gathered her class round her , and she had just heard the chapter once read , when there was a little confusion , a frightened cry of `` Ethel ! '' 
and before she could rise to her feet -- a flump upon the floor -- poor Mary had absolutely fainted dead away . 
Ethel was much terrified , and very angry with herself ; Mary was no light weight , but Mrs. Elwood coming at their cry , helped Ethel to drag her into the outer room , where she soon began to recover , and to be excessively puzzled as to what had happened to her . 
She said the sea was roaring , and where was Harry ? 
and then she looked much surprised to find herself lying on Mrs. Elwood 's damp flags -- a circumstance extremely distressing to Mrs. Elwood , who wanted to carry her up-stairs into Cherry 's room , very clean and very white , but with such a sun shining full into it ! 
Ethel lavished all care , and reproached herself greatly , though to be sure nothing had ever been supposed capable of hurting Mary , and Mary herself protested that nothing at all had ailed her till the children 's voices began to sound funny , and turned into the waves of the sea , and therewith poor Mary burst into a great flood of tears , and asked whether Harry would ever come back . 
The tears did her a great deal of good , though not so much as the being petted by Ethel , and she soon declared herself perfectly well ; but Ethel could not think of letting her walk home , and sent off a boy -- who she trusted would not faint -- with a note to Margaret , desiring her to send the gig , which fortunately was at home to-day . 
Where is Ethel ? ' 
Dr. Spencer looked in , as Ethel came out , and his face put her in mind of Norman 's look . 
Ethel was soon satisfied that he did not think Mary ill . 
` It was very wrong of me , ' said Ethel . 
And Mary having been voted into the seat of honour and comfort , by his side , in the carriage , told her version of Cocksmoor and the Committee ; while Ethel sat up in the little narrow seat behind , severely reproaching herself for her want of consideration towards one so good and patient as Mary , who proved to have been suffering far more on Harry 's account than they had guessed , and who was so simple and thoroughgoing in doing her duty . 
` Ethel , dearest , ' said Margaret , that night , after they were in bed , ` is there anything the matter ? ' 
` No , nothing , but that Oxford has spoilt me , ' said Ethel , resolutely . 
` Nothing , ' said Ethel . 
She was becoming too much ashamed of her fancy to breathe one word about it , and she had spoken the truth . 
Pleasure had spoilt her . 
she sighed , presently , ` with that one hundred and fifty pounds lying idle . ' 
Or , as Ethel drew her own moral , sacrifice must not be selfish . 
You do n't know that girl Ethel . 
She began at fifteen , entirely of her own accord , and has never faltered . 
If any of the children there are saved from perdition , it is owing to her , and I am not going to be the man to stop her . 
Two days after , Ethel came down equipped for Cocksmoor . 
He offered to relieve Ethel of her bag of books . 
` I shall be very glad of the pleasure of your company , but I am not in the least afraid of going alone , ' said she , smiling , however , so as to shew she was glad of such pleasant company . 
Ethel believed that he accompanied her merely because his gallantry would not suffer her to go unescorted , and she was not sorry , for it was too long a walk for solitude to be very agreeable , when strange waggoners might be on the road , though she had never let them be `` lions in the path . '' 
The walk was as pleasant as a scorching sun would allow , and by the time they arrived at the scattered cottages , Ethel had been drawn into explaining many of her Cocksmoor perplexities . 
` I see , that was one of the blunders , ' said Ethel . 
A surmise crossed Ethel . 
Could he be going to take the work on himself , but that was too wild a supposition -- she knew he had nothing of his own , only a moderate pension from the East India Company . 
She agreed that it would do well , and he kicked up a bit of turf , and pryed into the soil , pronouncing it dry , and fit for a good foundation . 
Then he began to step it out , making a circuit that amazed her , but he said , ` It is of no use to do it at twice . 
He would not let her remain in the sun , and she went into school . 
She found him , when she came out , sitting in the arbour , smoking a cigar -- rather a shock to her feelings , though he threw it away the instant she appeared , and she excused him for his foreign habits . 
In the evening , he brought down a traveller 's case of instruments , and proceeded to draw a beautiful little map of Cocksmoor , where it seemed that he had taken all his measurements , whilst she was in school . 
He ended by an imaginary plan and elevation for the school , with a pretty oriel window and bell-gable , that made Ethel sigh with delight at the bare idea . 
Ethel was too much confounded to speak . 
Her father was exclaiming on the shortness of the time . 
As to checking him , of that there was no possibility , nor , indeed , notion , though Ethel did not quite know how to believe in it , nor that the plan could come to good . 
Ethel was much better by this time : by her vigorous efforts , she had recovered her tone of mind and interest in what was passing ; and though , now and then Norman 's letters , carrying sentences of remembrance , made her glow a little , she was so steady to her resolution that she averted all traffic in messages through her brother 's correspondence , and , in that fear , allowed it to lapse into Margaret 's hands more than she had ever done . 
Ethel wished that she had warned him off , for Margaret looked much more harassed and anxious , after having heard the outpouring of all that was on his mind . 
Ethel will never get her school built without you . ' 
cried Ethel . 
` You have given Cocksmoor one lift , ' said Ethel , ` and it will never go on without you . ' 
Hector Ernescliffe discovered a jack-daw 's nest in the chimney , whereupon the whole train rushed off to investigate , leaving the two Doctors and Ethel standing together in the empty parlour , Dr. May pressing , Dr. Spencer raising desultory objections ; but so evidently against his own wishes , that Ethel said , ` Now , indeed , you must not disappoint us all . ' 
` And you must not leave papa , ' added Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
Dr. Spencer did not gainsay it , and proceeded even to shew the old Whichcote spirit , by leading the assault , and promising to take care of Aubrey , while Ethel retained Gertrude , and her father too ; for Dr. May had such a great inclination to scramble up the ladder after them , that she , thinking it a dangerous experiment for so helpless an arm , was obliged to assure him that it would create a sensation among the gossiphood of Stoneborough , if their physician were seen disporting himself on the top of the house . 
said Ethel . 
Mrs. Ledwich ; what is to be done with her , Ethel ? ' 
Ethel was only afraid that time was being cruelly wasted ; but the best men , and it is emphatically the best that generally are so -- have the boy strong enough , on one side or other of their natures , to be a great provocation to womankind ; and Dr. Spencer did not rest from his pursuit till the brood of the jackdaws had been discovered , and two grey-headed nestlings kidnapped , which were destined to a wicker cage , and education . 
` There 's nothing for it but for Aubrey to go to school , ' cried Tom , sententiously turning round to Ethel . 
Dr. Spencer began to bethink him of the paper that he had been so eagerly drawing up , and looking at his own begrimed hands , asked Ethel whether she would have him for a trustee . 
said Ethel , ` that 's the point . ' 
` Come , Ethel , let us hear what should be done . ' 
` There 's no time , ' said Ethel , bewildered . 
` One and two , Ethel , and Mrs. Rivers ! ' 
` Rather eight and nine , ' said Ethel , ` though Flora may be somebody now . ' 
` Well then , Ethel , suppose we set out on our travels this afternoon . 
` Faint heart -- you know the proverb , Ethel , Allons . 
` Let Ethel do that , and ask her to tea , and we will shew her your drawing of the school . ' 
So the remaining ladies were divided -- Ethel was to visit Miss Anderson , Miss Boulder , and Mrs. Ledwich ; Dr. Spencer , the rest , and a meeting , if possible , be appointed for the next day . 
Ethel did as she was told , though rather against the grain , and her short , abrupt manner , was excused the more readily , that Dr. Spencer had been a subject of much mysterious speculation in Stoneborough , and to gain any intelligence respecting him , was a great object ; so that she was extremely welcome , wherever she called . 
Ethel offered to walk with her , and found Mrs. and Miss Rich in a flutter , after Dr. Spencer 's call ; the daughter just going to put on her bonnet and consult Mrs. Ledwich , and both extremely enchanted with Dr. Spencer , who ` would be such an acquisition . ' 
The hour was fixed and the notes sent out , and Ethel met Dr. Spencer at the garden gate . 
` There are more good motives in the world than you give people credit for , Ethel . 
` If they will be shown , ' said Ethel . 
` You will get on now , Ethel , ' said Dr. May , afterwards . 
` Never you fear -- ' That was all she could extract from him , though he looked very arch . 
He finally contrived to collect everyone he wanted at Fordholm , the case was laid before the College -- the College was propitious , and , by four o'clock in the evening , Dr. Spencer laid before Ethel the promise of the piece of land . 
Mary 's joy was unbounded , and Ethel blushed , and tried to thank . 
This would have been the summit of felicity a year ago , and she was vexed with herself for feeling that though land and money were both in such safe hands , she could not care sufficiently to feel the ecstacy the attainment of her object would once have given to her . 
Then she would have been frantic with excitement , and heedless of everything ; now she took it so composedly as to annoy herself . 
Perhaps it was the less at home , because she had just heard that George and Flora had accepted an invitation to Glenbracken , but though the zest of Cocksmoor might be somewhat gone , she called herself to order , and gave her full attention to all that was planned by her champion . 
It was a great step when his packages arrived , and his beautiful Indian curiosities were arranged , making his drawing-room as pretty a room as could anywhere be seen ; in readiness , as he used to tell Ethel , for a grand tea-party for all the Ladies ' Committee , when he should borrow her and the best silver tea-pot to preside . 
Moreover he had a chemical apparatus , a telescope , and microscope , of great power , wherewith he tried experiments that were the height of felicity to Tom and Ethel , and much interested their father . 
said Dr. Spencer , ' a cool hand , but very shallow -- ' Ethel wondered to hear thus lightly disposed of , the powers of argument that had been thought fairly able to compete with Norman , and which had taxed him so severely . 
She did not know how differently abstract questions appear to a mature mind , confirmed in principle by practice ; and to one young , struggling in self-formation , and more used to theories than to realities . 
It was the only note Ethel had ever received from her father , and only contained these few words : -- Dear E. I believe this attack will be the last . 
` Dear Ethel , you must calm yourself , or you will not be of use . ' 
Mary and Miss Bracy prepared Ethel 's own goods , which she would otherwise have forgotten ; and Margaret , meanwhile , detained her by her side , trying to calm and encourage her with gentle words of council , that might hinder her from giving way to the flurry of emotion that had seized her , and prevent her from thinking herself certain to be useless . 
Under those solemn stars , the Life Everlasting seemed to overpower the sense of this mortal life , and Ethel 's agitation was calmed away . 
The servants looked rather surprised to see Ethel , as if she were not expected , and conducted her to the great drawing-room , which looked the more desolate and solitary , from the glare of lamplight , falling on the empty seats which Ethel had lately seen filled with a glad , home party . 
She was looking round , thinking whether to venture up to Meta 's room , and there summon Bellairs , when Meta came gliding in , and threw her arms round her . 
Ethel could not speak , but Meta 's voice was more cheerful than she had expected . 
` How kind of you , dear Ethel ! ' 
` Papa sent for me , ' said Ethel . 
Meta wound her arms round Ethel , and led her up to her sitting-room , where a book lay on the table . 
She said that her father had seemed weary and torpid , and had sat still until almost their late dinner hour , when he seemed to bethink himself of dressing , and had risen . 
She thought he walked weakly , and rather tottering , and had run to make him lean on her , which he did , as far as his own room door . 
There he had kissed her , and thanked her , and murmured a word like blessing . 
She had not , however , been alarmed , until his servant had come to tell her that he had another seizure . 
Ethel asked whether she had seen Dr. May since he had been with her father . 
She had ; but Ethel was surprised to find that she had not taken in the extent of his fears . 
She had become so far accustomed to these attacks , that , though anxious and distressed , she did not apprehend more than a few days ' weakness , and her chief longing was to be of use . 
She was speaking cheerfully of beginning her nursing to-morrow , and of her great desire that her papa would allow her to sit up with him , when there was a slow , reluctant movement of the lock of the door , and the two girls sprang to their feet , as Dr. May opened it ; and Ethel read his countenance at once . 
cried she . 
` Not now , my dear , ' said Dr. May , putting his hand on her shoulder , in a gentle , detaining manner , that sent a thrill of trembling through her frame , though she did not otherwise move . 
She only clasped her hands together , and looked up into his face . 
Ethel came near , and put her arm round Meta 's waist , as if to strengthen her , as she stood quite passive , and still . 
Meta tried to speak , but could not bring out the words , and , with an imploring look at Ethel , as if to beg her to make them clear for her , she inarticulately murmured , ` Oh ! 
Dr. May signed to Ethel to guide her back to the sofa , but the movement seemed so far to rouse her , that she said , ` I should like to go to bed . ' 
` Right -- the best thing , ' said Dr. May ; and he whispered to Ethel , ` go with her , but do n't try to rouse her -- do n't talk to her . 
Bellairs undressed her , and Ethel stood watching , till the young head , under the load of sorrow , so new to it , was laid on the pillow . 
Bellairs asked her if she would have a light . 
Ethel went back to the sitting-room , where her father was standing at the window , looking out into the night . 
He turned as she came in , folded her in his arms , and kissed her forehead . 
` The same , ' said Ethel . 
` I ca n't bear to leave her alone , and to have said nothing to comfort her . ' 
` It is too soon as yet , ' said Dr. May -- ` her mind has not taken it in . 
I hope she will sleep all night , and have more strength to look at it when she wakens . ' 
` She was utterly unprepared . ' 
` I could not make her understand me , ' said Dr. May . 
` And , oh , papa , what a pity she was not there ! ' 
` It was no sight for her , till the last few minutes ; and his whole mind seemed bent on sparing her . 
` Must we leave her to herself all night ? ' 
` She has been used to loneliness ; and to thrust companionship on her would be only harassing . ' 
Ethel , who scarcely knew what it was to be alone , looked as if she did not understand . 
` You have seen so many sorrows , ' said Ethel . 
` I did not think you knew what was passing , ' said Ethel . 
I could no more have moved my mind than my broken arm ; and I verily think , Ethel , that , but for that merciful torpor , I should have been frantic . 
` You must stay with her till Flora comes . 
She is our charge , till they come home . 
Dr. May again threw his arm round her , and looked into her face . 
He felt that he had rather have her , such as she was , than anybody else ; and , together , they sat down , and talked of what was to be done , and what was best for Meta , and of the solemnity of being in the house of death . 
Ethel felt and shewed it so much , in her subdued , awe-struck manner , that her father felt checked whenever he was about to return to his ordinary manner , familiarized , as he necessarily was , with the like scenes . 
Bellairs promised to call Ethel , to be with her young lady as early as might be , reporting that she was sound asleep . 
And sleep continued to shield her till past her usual hour , so that Ethel was up , and had been with Dr. May , before she was summoned to her , and then she found her half-dressed , and hastening that she might not make Dr. May late for breakfast , and in going to his patients . 
Yet her eyes looked wandering , and unlike themselves , and her words , now and then , faltered , as if she was not sure what she was doing or saying . 
Ethel told her not to mind -- Dr. Spencer would take care of the patients ; but she did not seem to recollect , at first , who Dr , Spencer was , nor to care for being reminded . 
Ethel wanted to take the trouble off her hands , but she would not let her . 
She sat behind her urn , and asked about tea or coffee , quite accurately , in a low , subdued voice , that nearly overcame Dr. May . 
When the meal was over , and she had rung the bell , and risen up , as if to her daily work , she turned round , with that piteous , perplexed air , and stood for a moment , as if confused . 
said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` It has been a life which , as she has used it , has taught her strength and self-dependance in the midst of prosperity . ' 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , ` she has trained herself by her dread of self-indulgence , and seeking after work . 
what a break up it is for her ! 
I can not think how she holds up . 
Shall I go to her ? ' 
She knows the way to the only Comforter . 
I am not afraid of her after those blessed tears . ' 
Dr. May was right ; Meta presently returned to them , in the same gentle subdued sadness , enfolding her , indeed , as a flower weighed down by mist , but not crushing nor taking away her powers . 
It was as if she were truly upheld ; and thankful to her friends as she was , she did not throw herself on them in utter dependance or self-abandonment . 
She wrote needful letters , shedding many tears over them , and often obliged to leave off to give the blinding weeping its course , but refusing to impose any unnecessary task upon Dr. May 's lame arm . 
All that was right , she strove to do ; she saw Mr. Charles Wilmot , and was refreshed by his reading to her , and when Dr. May desired it , she submissively put on her bonnet , and took several turns with Ethel in the shrubbery , though it made her cry heartily to look into the down-stairs rooms . 
And she lay on the sofa at last , owning herself strangely tired , she did not know why , and glad that Ethel should read to her . 
By-and-by , she went to dress for the evening , and came back , full of the tidings that one of the children in the village had been badly burnt . 
It occupied her very much -- she made Ethel promise to go and see about her to-morrow , and sent Bellairs at once with every comfort that she could devise . 
On the whole , those two days were to Ethel a peaceful and comfortable time . 
She saw more than usual of her father , and had such conversations with him as were seldom practicable at home , and that chimed in with the unavowed care which hung on their minds ; while Meta was a most sweet and loving charge , without being a burthen , and often saying such beautiful things in her affectionate resignation , that Ethel could only admire and lay them up in her mind . 
Dr. May went backwards and forwards , and brought good accounts of Margaret and fond messages ; he slept at the Grange each night , and Meta used to sit in her corner of the sofa and work , or not , as best suited her , while she listened to his talk with Ethel , and now and then herself joined . 
Meta at once begged that he would come in , and Ethel went into the hall to meet him . 
He looked very man , with the dark rings round his eyes , a deeper purple than ever , and he could hardly find utterance to ask ` how is she ? ' 
` As good and sweet as she can be , ' said Ethel , warmly ; but no more , for Meta herself had come to the dining room door , and was holding out her hand . 
Ethel asked for Flora and George . 
Ethel went to see the burnt child , leaving Meta to take her walk in the garden under Norman 's charge . 
He waited on her with a sort of distant reverence for a form of grief , so unlike what he had dreaded for her , when the first shock of the tidings had brought back to him the shattered bewildered feelings to which he dared not recur . 
To dwell on the details , was , to her , a comfort , knowing his sympathy and the affection there had been between him and her father ; nor had they parted in such absolute brightness , as to make them unprepared for such a meeting as the present . 
Norman said little , but that little was so deep and fervent , that after a time , Meta could not help saying , when Ethel was seen in the distance , and their talk was nearly over -- ` Oh ! 
Ethel came up , and Dr. May also , in good time for the post . 
Ethel , after going with Meta to her room at night , returned as usual to talk matters over with him , and again say how good Meta was . ' 
` And I think Norman 's coming did her a great deal of good , ' said Ethel . 
` She thinks so much of Mr. Rivers having been fond of him . ' 
` It is remarkable , ' said Dr. May , and then , as if he could not help it , told Ethel what Mr. Rivers had said of his wishes with regard to his daughter . 
Ethel blushed and smiled , and looked so much touched and delighted , that he grew alarmed and said , ` You know , Ethel , this must be as if it never had been mentioned . ' 
Why , Ethel ! 
she has thirty thousand pounds , and I dont know how much more . ' 
said Ethel , her tone , one of astonishment , while his had been almost of objection . 
` He would not care for it , ' said Ethel . 
` If they settle it for themselves , ' said Dr. May , ` that sanction will come in to give double value to mine -- or if I should see poor Norman hesitating as to the inequality , I might smooth the way ; but you see , Ethel , this puts us in a most delicate situation towards this pretty little creature . 
What her father wanted , was only to guard her from fortune-hunters , and if she should marry suitably elsewhere , -- why -- we will be contented . ' 
` I dont think I should be , ' said Ethel . 
` She is the most winning of humming birds , and what we see of her now , gives one double confidence in her . 
She is so far from the petted helpless girl , that he , poor man , would fain have made her ! 
And she has a bright , brave , temper and elastic spirits that would be the very thing for him , poor boy , with that morbid sensitiveness -- he would not hurt her , and she would brighten him . 
` If we can help it , ' said Ethel . 
But , turning away from the subject , ` You shall not lose your Cocksmoor income , Ethel -- ' ` I had never thought of that . 
Well , so we are in Flora 's house , Ethel ! 
said Ethel . 
After all , if we have nothing else , Ethel , we have the best of it , in regard to such relations as we have . ' 
` There is Lord Cosham , ' said Ethel . 
` Yes , he is Meta 's guardian , as well as her brother ; but he could not have her to live with him . 
She must depend upon Flora . 
But we shall see -- ' Ethel felt confident that Flora would be very kind to her little sister-in-law , and yet one of those gleams of doubt crossed her , whether Flora would not be somewhat jealous of her own authority . 
Flora stood beside Ethel , and said , in a low voice , that poor George felt it dreadfully , and then came forward , touched him gently , and told him that he must not overset Meta ; and , drawing her from him , kissed her , and said what a grievous time this had been for her , and how sorry they had been to leave her so long , but they knew she was in the best hands . 
thought Ethel . 
Ethel was surprised to find that it would be a great distress to Meta to part with her until the funeral was over , though she would hardly express a wish , lest Ethel should be needed at home . 
As soon as Flora perceived this , she begged her sister to stay , and again Ethel felt unpleasantly that Meta might have seen , if she had chosen , that Flora took the invitation upon herself . 
So , while Dr. May , with George , Norman and Tom went to London , she remained , though not exactly knowing what good she was doing , unless by making the numbers rather less scanty ; but both sisters declared her to be the greatest comfort possible ; and when Meta shut herself up in her own room , where she had long learnt to seek strength in still communing with her own heart , Flora seemed to find it a relief to call her sister to hers , and talk over ordinary subjects , in a tone that struck on Ethel 's ear as a little incongruous -- but then Flora had not been here from the first , and the impression could not be as strong . 
She was very kind , and her manner , when with others , was perfect , from its complete absence of affectation ; but , alone with Ethel , there was a little complacency sometimes betrayed , and some curiosity whether her father had read the will . 
Ethel allowed what she had heard of the contents to be extracted from her , and it certainly did not diminish Flora 's secret satisfaction in being `` somebody . '' 
` Did I tell you , Ethel , that he desired to be remembered to you ? ' 
Ethel twisted it about in her fingers , and said , ` Was not it meant for you ? ' 
Ethel sighed . 
She felt as if her black dress ought , perhaps , to be worn for a nearer cause . 
She had a great desire to keep that Glenbracken brooch ; and surely it could not be wrong . 
` Do you really and truly , Ethel ? ' 
` Certainly not , at such a time as this , ' said Ethel . 
` Shall I say you like the brooch , Ethel ? ' 
she asked , presently . 
` Say what is proper , ' said Ethel , impatiently . 
` I mean , ' said Ethel , ` that you may say , simply and rationally , that I like the thing , but I wo n't have it said as a message , or that I take it as his present . ' 
Ethel was sorry at once . 
Ethel carried the brooch to her own room , and tried to keep herself from speculating what had been Mr. Ogilvie 's views in procuring it , and whether he remembered showing her , at Woodstock , which sort of fern was his badge , and how she had abstained from preserving the piece shut up in her guide-book . 
The three sisters sat together that long day , and Ethel read to the others , and by-and-by went to walk in the garden with them , till , as Flora was going in , Meta asked , ` Do you think it would be wrong for me to cross the park to see that little burnt girl , as Mr. Wilmot is away to-day , and she has no one to go to her . ' 
Flora could see no reason against it , and Meta and Ethel left the garden , and traversed the green park , in its quiet home beauty , not talking much , except that Meta said , ` Well ! 
said Ethel . 
She left Ethel to talk , and only said a few soft little words to her sick scholar , who seemed to want her voice and smile to convince her that the small mournful face under all that black crape , belonged to her own dear bright teacher . 
` I know what you mean , ' said Ethel . 
Do you know , Ethel , I shall always think of those two first days , before anybody came , with you and Dr. May , as something very -- very -- precious , ' she said , at last , with the tears rising . 
` I am sure I shall , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel . 
` Yes , ' said Ethel , almost rebuked for the first thought , namely , that it was because Meta was so very good . 
``` It is good for me to have been in trouble , ''' repeated Ethel . 
I do n't think it can , for I know no more pain or trouble can reach him , and there is -- do n't you think , Ethel , that I may think so ? 
Will you tell her , Ethel , how really I do wish her to take the command of me . 
Tell her it will be the greatest kindness in the world to make me useful to her . ' 
` I will , ' said Ethel . 
` And please tell her that I am afraid I may forget , and take upon me , as if I were still lady of the house . 
Tell her I do not mean it , and I hope that she will check it . ' 
` I think there is no fear of her forgetting that , ' said Ethel , regretting the words before they were out of her mouth . 
Ethel understood the force of her father 's words , that it was a brave , vigorous spirit . 
` Well , I suppose Bruce ca n't be trusted to value the books and prints -- ' Dr. May thought it a great relief that Meta had a home with Flora , for , as he said to Ethel , as they went home together , ` Certainly , except Lord Cosham , I never saw such an unpresentable crew as their relations . 
` One would rather think of our own dear cloister , and those who cared so much , ' said Ethel . 
-- ' Pausing , he looked from the window -- then signed to Ethel , to do the same -- Orion glittered in the darkness . 
` I believe we ought , Ethel . 
Do n't tell her , but I went to the Admiralty to-day . ' 
First , papa declared her something surpassing -- exactly like Flora , and so I suppose she is ; but Ethel and Meta will say nothing for her beauty , and Blanche calls her a fright . 
She has been so much occupied with it , and so anxious that George should be ready to take the field at once , that papa was afraid of its hurting her , and Ethel comes home declaring that the election is more to her than her baby . ' 
` Ethel is apt to be a little hard on Flora . 
` Ethel is to be godmother though , and Flora means to ask Mr. Ogilvie to come and stand . ' 
` Meta owned to Ethel that what had been worst of all to her was the heart sinking , at finding herself able to choose her occupations , with no one to accommodate them to . 
But she would not give way -- she set up more work for herself at the school , and has been talking of giving singing lessons at Cocksmoor ; and she forced herself to read , though it was an effort . 
She has been very happy lately in nursing Flora . ' 
` Is Ethel there ? ' 
` No ; she is , as usual , at Cocksmoor . 
There are great councils about sending Cherry to be trained for her new school . ' 
It was only grateful and cousinly likewise , to ask the `` Master of Glenbracken ; '' and as she saw the thrill of colour on Ethel 's cheeks , at the sight of the address to the Honorable Norman Ogilvie , she thought herself the best of sisters . 
She even talked of Ogilvie as a second Christian name , but Meta observed that old aunt Dorothy would call it Leonorar Rogilvie Rivers , and thus averted it , somewhat to Ethel 's satisfaction . 
Ethel scolded herself many times for wondering whether Mr. Ogilvie would come . 
What was it to her ? 
How unreasonable and conceited , even to think of such a thing , when her mind was made up . 
What could result , save tossings to and fro , a passing gratification set against infinite pain , and strife with her own heart , and with her father 's unselfishness ! 
No ; Ethel hated herself for the wish that arose for the moment . 
Far better he should keep away , if , perhaps , without the slightest inclination towards her , his mere name could stir up such a tumult -- all , it might be , founded in vanity . 
If Ethel breathed more freely , there was a sense that tranquillity is uninteresting . 
It was , it must be confessed , a flat end to a romance , that all the permanent present effect was a certain softening , and a degree more attention to her appearance ; and after all , this might , as Flora averred , be ascribed to the Paris outfit having taught her to wear clothes ; as well as to that which had awakened the feminine element , and removed that sense of not being like other women , which sometimes hangs painfully about girls who have learnt to think themselves plain or awkward . 
There were other causes why it should be a dreary winter to Ethel , under the anxiety that strengthened by duration , and the strain of acting cheerfulness for Margaret 's sake . 
Her round rosy childhood had worn into height and sallowness , and her languor and indifference fretted Miss Bracy , and was hunted down by Ethel , till Margaret convinced her that it was a case for patience and tenderness , which , thenceforth , she heartily gave , even encountering a scene with Miss Bracy , who was much injured by the suggestion that Mary was oppressed by perspective . 
Nor could Ethel quite fathom Norman . 
He wore the dispirited , burthened expression that she knew too well , but he would not , as formerly , seek relief in confidence to her , shunning the being alone with her , and far too much occupied to offer to walk to Cocksmoor . 
Flora was delighted , George adored him , Meta 's eyes danced whenever he came near , Dr. Spencer admired him , and Dr. Hoxton prophesied great things of him ; but Ethel did not feel as if he were the veritable Norman , and had an undefined sensation of discomfort , when she heard his brilliant repartees , and the laughter with which he accompanied them , so unlike his natural rare and noiseless laugh . 
She knew it was false excitement , to drive away the suspense that none dared to avow , but which did not press on them the less heavily , for being endured in silence . 
He made a very good figure , and in the glory of victory , Ethel herself began to grow proud of him , and the children 's great object in life was to make the jackdaws cry , `` Rivers for ever ! '' 
` So she brought the baby , ' exclaimed Ethel . 
` I should have thought she would not have taken her out before her Christening . ' 
` Ethel , ' said Dr. Spencer , ` permit me to make a suggestion . 
without the least consideration for the baby , who would have been decked in the same manner , if Ethel would have heard of it without indignation , at her wearing any colour before her Christening white ; as to Jack and Jill , though they could say their lesson , they were too much distressed by their ornaments to do ought but lurk in corners , and strive to peck them off . 
Her husband gave her his arm as they went down the garden , and Ethel saw her talking earnestly to him , and pressing his arm with her other hand to enforce her words , but if she did tutor him , it was hardly visible , and he was very glad of whatever counsel she gave . 
She spoke not a word after the ladies were left with Aubrey , who was in despair at not being allowed to follow Hector and Tom , but was left , as his prematurely classical mind expressed it , like the Gaulish women with the impedimenta in the marshes -- whereas Tom had added insult to injury , by a farewell to `` Jack among the maidens . '' 
Meta tried to console him , by persuading him that he was their protector , and he began to think there was need of a guard , when a mighty cheer caused him to take refuge behind Ethel . 
By-and-by Blanche was missing , and Ethel , going in quest of her , spied a hem of blue merino peeping out under all the cloaks in the hall cupboard , and found the poor little girl sobbing in such distress , that it was long before any explanation could be extracted , but at last it was revealed -- when the door had been shut , and they stood in the dark , half stifled among the cloaks , that George 's spirits had taken his old facetious style with Blanche , and in the very hearing of Hector ! 
She hid her face again from the very sound of her own confession , and resisted Ethel 's attempts to draw her out of the musty cupboard , declaring that she could never see either of them again . 
Ethel , in vain , assured her that George was gone to the dinner at the Swan ; nothing was effectual but being told that , for her to notice what had passed , was the sure way to call Hector 's attention thereto , when she bridled , emerged , and begged to know whether she looked as if she had been crying . 
Poor child , she could never again be unconscious , but , at least , she was rendered peculiarly afraid of a style of notice , that might otherwise have been a temptation . 
Ethel privately begged Flora to hint to George to alter his style of wit , and the suggestion was received better than the blundering manner deserved ; Flora was too exulting to take offence , and her patronage of all the world was as full-blown as her ladylike nature allowed . 
Ethel , she did not attempt to patronize , but she promised all the sights in London to the children , and masters to Mary and Blanche , and she perfectly overwhelmed Miss Bracy with orphan asylums for her sisters . 
` said Ethel , and Flora smiled , well-pleased , but she had not caught half the meaning . 
` May it be the right excelsior , ' added Ethel , in a low voice , that no one heard , and she was glad they did not . 
They were all triumphant , and she could not tell why she had a sense of sadness , and thought of Flora 's story long ago , of the girl who ascended Mont Blanc , and for what ? 
Ethel had more sympathy here , for she had thought that Flora was giving herself airs , and she laughed and said her sister was pleased to be in a position to help her friends ; and tried to turn it off , but ended by stumbling into allowing that prosperity was apt to make people over lavish of offers of kindness . 
` Dear Miss Ethel , you understand so perfectly . 
If Ethel had not spoken rightly of her sister , she was sufficiently punished . 
What she did was to burst into a laugh , and exclaim , ` Miss Bracy ! 
And , thinking she had been savage about her hand , Ethel turned back , and kissed the little governess 's forehead , wished her good-night , and ran away . 
She had learnt that , to be rough and merry , was the best way of doing Miss Bracy good in the end ; and so she often gave herself the present pain of knowing that she was being supposed careless and hard-hearted ; but the violent affection for her proved that the feeling did not last . 
Ethel was glad to sit by the fire at bed-time , and think over the day , outwardly so gay , inwardly so fretting and perplexing . 
It was the first time that she had seen much of her little niece . 
She was no great baby-handler , nor had she any of the phrases adapted to the infant mind ; but that pretty little serene blue-eyed girl had been her chief thought all day , and she was abashed by recollecting how little she had dwelt on her own duties as her sponsor , in the agitations excited by the doubts about her coadjutor . 
Ethel knew that she judged her sister hardly ; yet she could not help picturing to herself the future -- a young lady , trained for fashionable life , serious teaching not omitted , but right made the means of rising in the world ; taught to strive secretly , but not openly , for admiration -- a scheming for her marriage -- a career like Flora 's own . 
Ethel could scarcely feel that it would not be a mockery to declare , on her behalf , that she renounced the world . 
Ethel blushed at having censured others , when , so lately , she had herself been oblivious of the higher duty . 
She thought of the prayer , including every Christian in holy and loving intercession -- ` I pray not that Thou wouldest take them out of the world , but that Thou wouldest keep them from the evil . ' 
The Christmas holidays had come to an end , and the home party were again alone , when early in the forenoon , there was a tap at the drawing-room door , and Dr. Spencer called , ` Ethel , can you come and speak to me ? ' 
go , Ethel , ' she said , ` do n't keep me waiting . ' 
Ethel said , ` Is it ? ' 
she asked . 
` Ethel , come ! ' 
She could not speak , but kneeling down by her sister , they read the paragraph together ; Ethel , with one eye on the words , the other on Margaret . 
cried Ethel . 
said Ethel , alarmed . 
continued Margaret , her eyes brightening , but her breath , in long-drawn gasps that terrified Ethel into calling Dr. Spencer . 
Mary was standing before him , with bloodless face and dilated eyes ; but , as Ethel approached , she turned and rushed up-stairs . 
Dr. Spencer entered the drawing-room with Ethel , who tried to read his face as he saw Margaret -- restored , as it seemed , to all her girlish bloom , and her eyes sparkling as they were lifted up , far beyond the present scene . 
Ethel had a moment 's sense that his expression was as if he had seen a death-blow struck , but it was gone in a moment , as he gently shook Margaret by the hand , and spoke a word of greeting , as though to recall her . 
he asked of Ethel . 
` Either at the hospital , or at Mr. Ramsden 's , ' said Ethel , with a ghastly suspicion , that he thought Margaret in a state to require him . 
Dr. Spencer signed Ethel nearer to him . 
` Dont be afraid for her . 
Pressing her hand he departed . 
Margaret was weeping tranquilly -- Ethel knelt down beside her , without daring at first to speak , but sending up intense mental prayers to Him , who alone could bear her or her dear father through their affliction . 
Then she ventured to take her hand , and Margaret returned the caress , but began to blame herself for the momentary selfishness that had allowed her brother 's loss and her father 's grief to have been forgotten in her own . 
-- Ethel 's `` oh ! 
did not console her for this which seemed the most present sorrow , but the flow of tears was so gentle , that Ethel trusted that they were a relief . 
Ethel herself seemed only able to watch her , and to fear for her father , not to be able to think for herself . 
Ethel stood a moment in the door-way , then sprang to him , and was clasped in his arms . 
He threw one arm round Ethel , and laid his hand on her head , ` How much there is to be thankful for ! ' 
` Where are the rest , Ethel ? 
Poor Mary , Ethel felt as if she had neglected her ! 
She found her hanging over the nursery fire , alternating with old nurse in fond reminiscences of Harry 's old days , sometimes almost laughing at his pranks , then crying again , while Aubrey sat between them , drinking in each word . 
She came to the door to ask Ethel anxiously for the Doctor and Miss May , and looked so affectionate and sympathizing , that Ethel gave her a hearty kiss . 
` Dear Miss Ethel ! 
` Thank you , ' said Ethel with all her heart , and hurried away . 
Ethel wrote letters to her brothers ; and Dr. May added a few lines , begging Richard to come home , if only for a few days . 
When Flora came in the afternoon , Ethel was able to leave Margaret to her , and attend to Mary , with whom Miss Bracy 's kindness had been inefficacious . 
The ghastly uncertainty was too terrible for Ethel to have borne to contemplate it . 
She knew that it would haunt their pillows , and she was trying to nerve herself by faith . 
It seems , to me , ' said Ethel , looking up , ` as if resting there was like being buried in our Baptism-tide over again , till the great new Birth . 
` Say it again -- what you said about the sea , ' said Mary , more comforted than if Ethel had been talking down to her . 
By-and-by , Ethel discovered that the sharpest trouble to the fond simple girl , was the deprivation of her precious photograph . 
It was like losing Harry over again , to go to bed without it , though she would not for the world seem to grudge it to her father . 
Ethel found an opportunity of telling him of this distress , and it almost made him smile . 
If it had not been for the momentary consternation that she had seen upon Dr. Spencer 's face , Ethel would have been perfectly satisfied ; but she could not help sometimes entertaining a dim fancy that this composure came from a sense that she was too near Alan to mourn for him . 
Could it be true that her frame was more wasted , that there was less capability of exertion , that her hours became later in the morning , and that her nights were more wakeful ? 
Would she fade away ? 
Ethel longed to know what her father thought , but she could neither bear to inspire him with the apprehension , nor to ask Dr. Spencer 's opinion , lest she should be confirmed in her own . 
With all his real submission , he was weak , and gave way to outbursts of grief , for which he blamed himself as unthankful ; and his whole demeanour was so saddened and depressed , that Ethel and Dr. Spencer consulted mournfully over him , whenever they walked to Cocksmoor together . 
said Ethel . 
Ethel . 
` Which is best , ' said Ethel , ' a high standard not acted up to , or a lower one fulfilled ? ' 
` Some people are angry with those whose example would shew that there is a higher standard , ' said Ethel . 
` Faithful in a little -- ' said Ethel . 
` I see , ' said Ethel , ` it is all right . ' 
cried Ethel . 
` I was thinking , ' said Ethel . 
Margaret , my darling , I am very sorry to have disappointed you so much -- it would have been as great a pleasure as we could have had in this world to have the lad here -- ' ` And Cocksmoor , ' sighed Ethel . 
Ethel would not say no , for fear she should pain Margaret . 
Margaret owned this , and Ethel said Richard would be glad to be spared the refusal . 
said Ethel . 
-- With help , and Ethel -- ' ` No , no ! 
cried Ethel . 
Flora had discontinued comments to her sisters , on her father 's proceedings , finding that observations mortified Margaret , and did not tend to peace with Ethel ; but she told her husband that she did not regret it much , for Richard would have exhausted his own income , and his father 's likewise , in paying Curates , and raising funds for charities . 
She scarcely expected Mr. Edward Wilmot to accept the offer , aware as he was , of the many disadvantages he should have to contend with , and unsuccessful as he had been in dealing with the Ladies ' Committee . 
` Well , Ethel , how is Cocksmoor ? 
cried Ethel , ` we are so glad you will see the beginning of the school ! ' 
` Much against Ethel 's will , ' said Margaret ; ` but we thought Cherry not easily spoilt . 
` Polly grew up quite civilized , ' said Ethel . 
` She lives at Whitford , with some very respectable people , and sends Granny presents , which make her merrier than ever . 
There is Willie Brown , trying to be Dr. Spencer 's little groom , ' said Ethel . 
` He did it purely to oblige Ethel ; and , I tell her , when he lames the pony , I shall expect her to buy another for him , out of the Cocksmoor funds . ' 
Ethel and Mary broke out in a chorus of defence of Willie Brown . 
` These are only little stray things , and Cherry has done the chief of them , ' said Ethel . 
it is grievously bad still , ' she added , sighing . 
` Can you tell me of one , Ethel -- or perhaps Margaret could ? ' 
Margaret 's last words that night to Ethel were , ` The last wish I had dared to make is granted ! ' 
It was at first pronounced that time could not be found for going to Church on week-days without neglecting other things , but Mary , who had lately sat very loose to the school-room , began gradually to slip down to Church whenever the Service was neither too early nor too late ; and Gertrude was often found trotting by her side -- going to mamma , as the little Daisy called it , from some confusion between the Church and the Cloister , which Ethel was in no hurry to disturb . 
However , the better leaven began to work , and , of course , there was a ferment , though less violent than Ethel had expected . 
The Committee was not dissolved -- that would have been an act of violence -- but it was henceforth subject to Mr. Wilmot , and he and his Curates undertook the religious instruction in the week , and chose the books -- a state of affairs brought about with so much quietness , that Ethel knew not whether Flora , Dr. Spencer , or Mr. Wilmot , had been the chief mover . 
Mrs. Ledwich was made treasurer of a new coal club , and Miss Rich keeper of the lending library , occupations which delighted them greatly ; and Ethel was surprised to find how much unity of action was springing up , now that the period was over , of each `` doing right in her own eyes . '' 
The Cocksmoor accounts were Ethel 's chief anxiety . 
However , Dr. May leant over her as she was puzzling over her pounds shillings and pence , and laid a cheque upon her desk . 
She looked up in his face . 
As to Cocksmoor , Ethel must not think it forgotten ; he had spoken to the Captain about it , and the old wooden-head had gone and answered that it was not incumbent on him , that Cocksmoor had no claims upon him , and he could not make it up out of his allowance ; for the old fellow would not give him a farthing more than he had before , and had said that was too much . 
Each letter , as Ethel said , seemed so much taken out of her , and she begged her not to think about them . 
` Nothing can do me much good , or harm , now , ' said Margaret ; and seeing Ethel 's anxious looks , ` Is it not my greatest comfort that Hector can still treat me as his sister , or , if I can only be of any use in keeping him patient ? 
Ethel suspected that , if Tom had chanced to singe his eyebrows , his friend would not have regretted a blight to his nascent coxcombry , but he was far too careful of his own beauty to do any such thing . 
Ethel was certain that Margaret was content , when she saw her brother bending over her , and the sense of reliance and security that the presence of the silent Richard imparted to the whole family , was something very peculiar , especially as they were so much more active and demonstrative than he was . 
If Ethel 's perseverance had done nothing else , it had , at least , been a witness , and her immediate scholars shewed the influence of her lessons . 
Meta had looked pale and pensive , as she bade her friends , at Stoneborough , good-bye ; but only betrayed that she had rather have staid at home , by promising herself great enjoyment in meeting them again at Easter . 
She promised wonders for Miss Bracy 's sisters -- talked of inviting Mary and Blanche to see sights and take lessons ; and undertook to send all the apparatus needed by Cocksmoor school ; and she did , accordingly , send down so many wonderful articles , that Curate and school-mistress were both frightened ; Mrs. Taylor thought the easels were new-fashioned instruments of torture ; and Ethel found herself in a condition to be liberal to Stoneborough National School . 
With the help of two such ladies as Mrs. and Miss Rivers , Ethel could imagine George 's house pleasant enough to attract clever people ; but she was surprised to find how full her sister 's letters were of political news . 
Meta expressed some disappointment at missing Easter among her school-children , but she said a great deal about the primroses and the green corn-fields , and nightingales -- all which Ethel would have set down to her trick of universal content , if it had not appeared that Sir Henry was there too , and shared in all the delicious rides . 
` What would Ethel say , ' wrote Flora , ` to have our little Meta as Lady of the Manor at Cocksmoor ? 
There was no rest for Ethel till she could be alone with her father . 
she asked . 
-LRB- Ah , Ethel ! -RRB- 
` Somehow , ' said Ethel , ` though he is depressed and silent , I like it better than I did last Christmas . ' 
Ethel did not know whether she desired a tête à tête with Norman or not . 
She was aware that he had seen Flora 's letter , and she did not believe that he would ever mention the hopes that must have been dashed by it ; or , if he should do so , how could she ever guard her father 's secret ? 
How Ethel was to take care of him she did not know ; she could only keep a heedful eye on him , and rejoice when he took Tom out for a long walk -- a companion certainly not likely to promote the working of the brain -- but though it was in the opposite direction to Cocksmoor , Tom came home desperately cross , snubbed Gertrude , and fagged Aubrey ; but , then , as Blanche observed , perhaps that was only because his trowsers were splashed . 
In her next solitary walk to Cocksmoor , Norman joined Ethel . 
She was gratified , but she could not think of one safe word worth saying to him , and for a mile they preserved an absolute silence , until he first began , ` Ethel , I have been thinking -- ' ` That you have ! ' 
said she , between hope and dread , and the thrill of being again treated as his friend . 
exclaimed Ethel . 
It is my earnest wish -- ' he paused , and the continuation took her by surprise . 
She could only gaze at him in mute amazement . 
` He would consent , ' she replied . 
` I know it is -- I am contented with it , ' said Ethel ; ` but oh ! 
She made a sound of inquiry . 
` She will always be nearer my heart than any place , save this . 
It is not her fault that I am not like the simple and dutiful , who are not fretted or perplexed . ' 
repeated Ethel . 
But where better men have been led astray , I have been bewildered ; till , Ethel , I have felt as if the ground were slipping from beneath my feet , and I have only been able to hide my eyes , and entreat that I might know the truth . ' 
said Ethel , looking pale , and gazing searchingly at him . 
Ethel recoiled , but came nearer , saying , very low , ` It is past . ' 
she asked , timidly . 
Ethel saw the truth of what her friend had said of the morbid habit of self-contemplation . 
Ethel took hold of his hand . 
` You seemed bright , ' she said . 
` I suppose examination was right , ' said Ethel , ` for a man , and defender of the faith . 
` And prayed -- ' said Ethel . 
Ethel breathed freely . 
` It was life or death , ' she said , ` and we never knew it ! ' 
` Because our dear home has made the truth , our joy , our union , ' said Ethel . 
she still asked , anxiously . 
` I know you do , ' said Ethel . 
` You will be the sounder for having fought the fight , ' said Ethel . 
` I do not dread the like shocks , ' said her brother , ` but I long to leave this world of argument and discussion . 
` Forgetting yourself , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel thought and thought . 
` I know he would not hinder you , ' she repeated . 
` Tom will not stand in your place , ' said Ethel . 
cried Ethel . 
` Understand , Ethel , the choice is New Zealand , or going at once -- at once , mind -- to study at Edinburgh or Paris . ' 
said Ethel . 
` I ca n't sound , ' said Ethel . 
The brightness that had come over Norman , when he had discharged his cares upon her , was encouragement enough for Ethel . 
She only asked how much she was to repeat of their conversation ? 
Ethel privately thought that no power on earth could prevent him from doing that . 
It was not consistent with cautious sounding , that Norman was always looking appealingly towards her ; and , indeed , she could not wait long with such a question on her mind . 
She remained with her father in the drawing-room , when the rest were gone up-stairs , and , plunging at once into the matter , she said , ` Papa , there is something that Norman can not bear to say to you himself . ' 
What should you think of -- of -- there are two things ; one is -- going out as a missionary -- ' ` Humming-birds in another shape , ' said the Doctor , startled , but smiling , so as to pique her . 
said she . 
Was it her own bad management ? 
She longed to put an end to the conversation , and answered , ` No , but he thinks it hard that none of your sons should be willing to relieve you . ' 
` It is far deeper , ' said Ethel ; ` and she related great part of what she had heard in the afternoon . 
It was not easy to make her father listen -- his line was to be positively indignant , rather than compassionate , when he heard of the doubts that had assailed poor Norman . 
He had no right to expect to come out safe -- ' and then he grasped tightly hold of Ethel 's hands , and , as if the terror had suddenly flashed on him , asked her , with dilated eye and trembling voice , whether she were sure that he was safe , and held the faith ! 
Ethel repeated his asseveration , and her father covered his face with his hands in thanksgiving . 
He sent Ethel to bed , saying , he should talk to Norman and find out what was the meaning of it , and she walked up-stairs , much ashamed of having so ill-served her brother , as almost to have made him ridiculous . 
Dr. May and Norman never failed to come to an understanding , and after they had had a long drive into the country together , Dr. May told Ethel that he was afraid , of what he ought not to be afraid of , that she was right , that the lad was very much in earnest now , at any rate , and if he should continue in the same mind , he hoped he should not be so weak as to hold him from a blessed work . 
From Norman , Ethel heard the warmest gratitude for his father 's kindness . 
Ethel was surprised to find that Norman wrote to Flora an expression of his resolution , that , if he found he could be spared from assisting his father as a physician , he would give himself up to the mission in New Zealand . 
Dr. Spencer carried off Blanche and Aubrey for a walk , and Ethel found Mary at her great resort -- Harry 's cupboard -- dusting and arranging his books , and the array of birthday gifts , to which , even to-day , she had not failed to add the marker that had been in hand at Christmas . 
Ethel entreated her to come down , and Mary promised , and presently appeared , looking so melancholy , that , as a sedative , Ethel set her down to the basket of scraps to find materials for a tippet for some one at Cocksmoor , intending , as soon as Margaret should be dressed , to resign her morning to the others , invite Miss Bracy to the drawing-room , and read aloud . 
At the same moment Ethel was in his arms , and his voice was sobbing , ` Ethel ! 
O Ethel , see -- ' Mary had not moved , but sat as if turned to stone , with breath suspended , wide-stretched eyes , and death-like cheeks -- Ethel sprang to her , ` Mary , Mary dear , it is Harry ! 
said Ethel . 
` See , she is better now -- ' ` Master Harry ! 
` Only up-stairs , ' said Ethel ; ` but where 's Alan ? 
Ethel , do n't you know ? ' 
said Ethel . 
exclaimed nurse , sounding her tongue on the roof of her mouth . 
` She 'll never abear it without her papa . 
said Ethel , while the brother was holding Mary in his embrace , and she lay tremulous with the new ecstacy , upon his breast -- ` but Margaret . 
Ethel walked up and down the room , divided between a tumult of joy , grief , dread , and perplexity . 
Hand-in-hand , they silently ascended the stairs , and Ethel pushed open the door . 
She sent them all away , even Ethel , who would have lingered . 
Ethel found Mary and Harry interlaced into one moving figure , and Harry greedily asking for his father and Norman , as if famishing for the sight of them . 
` No , do n't , ' said Ethel ; then , seeing him disappointed , she came nearer , and murmured , `` He entered into his chamber and -- '' Harry silenced her with another embrace , but their father was with them again , to verify that he had really seen his boy , and ask , alas ! 
The children burst in , having heard a report in the town , and Dr. Spencer waited at the door for the confirmation ; but when Ethel would have flown out to him , he waved his hand , shut the door , and hurried away , as if a word to her would have been an intrusion . 
Ethel roamed about , she could not sit still without feeling giddy , in the strangeness of the revulsion . 
Her father sat , as if a word would break the blest illusion ; and Harry stood before each of them in turn , as if about to speak , but turned his address into a sudden caress , or blow on the shoulder , and tried to laugh . 
Afterwards , Dr. May and Norman exultingly walked away , to shew their Harry to Dr. Spencer and Mr. Wilmot ; and Ethel would gladly have tried to calm herself , and recover the balance of her mind , by giving thanks where they were due ; but she did not know what to do with her sisters . 
Mary looked at her , and was again in a flood of tears , incoherently protesting , together with Ethel , that they would not change . 
Ethel knew that it was for life . 
Margaret 's gentle caresses seemed to make her worse ; and Ethel , afraid that Margaret 's own composure would be overthrown , exclaimed , ` How can you be so silly ? 
and rather roughly pulled her out of the room , when she collapsed entirely at the top of the stairs , and sat crying helplessly . 
` It is very disagreeable , ' whereat Mary relapsed into a giggle , and Ethel felt frantic . 
` Remember , Ritchie , ' said Ethel , thinking him severe , ` she has not been well this long time . ' 
Ethel , meanwhile , had still done nothing but stray about , long for loneliness , find herself too unsteady to finish her letters to Flora and Tom ; and , while she tried to make Gertrude think Harry a pleasant acquisition , she hated her own wild heart , that could not rejoice , nor give thanks , aright . 
Ethel caught at the notion , and it spread through the house . 
Ethel dimly remembered the like sense of relief , when her mother had hushed her wild ecstacy , while sympathizing with her joy . 
` Why , do n't you know , ' said Ethel ; it is current in the nursery that he is going to be tried by court-martial for living with the King of the Cannibal islands . ' 
` After all , ' said Ethel , ` I do n't think our notions are much more defined . 
Ethel thought there was more in that answer than met the ear , and that Harry , at least , had thought of the powder to-night at Church . 
You would not think how much he talked of Cocksmoor , about a Church being built there , as Ethel wished , and little Daisy laying the first stone . 
The notion of his heart -- like Cocksmoor to Ethel -- is , to get a real English mission , and have all his people Christians . 
Ethel talked of good kings being Davids to their line ; I think that is what he will be , if he lives ; but those islanders have been dying off since Europeans came among them . '' 
He was going to run over half the town -- everyone would like to hear it from him ; Ethel and Mary must go to the rest -- the old women in the almshouses , where lived an old cook who used to be fond of Harry -- they should have a feast -- all who were well enough in the hospital should have a tea-drinking -- Dr. Hoxton had already granted a holiday to the school ; every boy with whom they had any connection should come to dinner , and Edward Anderson should be asked to meet Harry on his return , because , poor fellow , he was so improved . 
Ethel , meanwhile , was standing beside her brother tendering to him some gold , as his last quarter . 
` How did you get it Ethel ? 
` No , but papa took Cocksmoor in your stead , when -- ' ` Nonsense , Ethel , ' said Harry ; ` I do n't want it . 
And as to robbing Cocksmoor -- ' ` Yes , keep it , Ethel , ' said her father , ` do you think I would take it now , when if there were a thankoffering in the world ! 
He kept Ethel and Mary merry with his droll desultory comments ; he made Blanche keep up her dancing ; and taught Gertrude to be a thorough little romp . 
As to Dr. May , his patients never were so well or so cheerful , till Dr. Spencer and Ethel suspected that the very sight of his looks brightened them -- how could they help it ? 
` I think , ' said Ethel , ` that in a strong character , there is an exulting fear in looking up to a superior , in whose justice there is perfect reliance . 
` Go down , dear Ethel -- Aubrey will be waiting for you . ' 
Ethel went down to the difficult task of hearing Aubrey 's lessons , while Harry was pretending to write to Mrs. Arnott , but , in reality , teaching Gertrude the parts of a ship , occasionally acting mast , for her to climb . 
` She is dressed , but will not come down till the evening , ' said Ethel . 
` I 'll go to her . 
She will be pleased . 
Come up presently , Ethel . 
` What , is it anything left to her ? ' 
` Ethel , listen -- twenty thousand , to build and endow a Church for Cocksmoor ! ' 
No need to bid Ethel listen . 
She gave a sort of leap in her chair , then looked almost ready to faint . 
` My dear child , ' said her father , ` this is your wish . 
Ethel drew his arm round her , and leant against him . 
she repeated , as if questioning the drift of the words . 
exclaimed Ethel . 
Ethel , do n't be long in coming . ' 
With all Ethel 's reputation for bluntness , it was remarkable how her force of character made her always called for whenever there was the least dread of a scene . 
She turned abruptly from Harry ; and , going outside the window , tried to realize and comprehend the tidings , but all she could have time to discover was that Alan 's memory was dearer to her than ever , and she was obliged to hasten up-stairs . 
Her father quitted the room by one door , as she entered by the other ; she believed that it was to hide his emotion , but Margaret 's fair wan face was beaming with the sweetest of congratulating smiles . 
` I thought so , ' she said , as Ethel came in . 
` Dear Ethel , are you not glad ? ' 
` I think I am , ' said Ethel , putting her hands to her brow . 
` I beg your pardon , ' said Ethel , with quivering lip . 
Dear Alan -- and then to have been set on it so long -- to have prayed so for it , and to have it come in this way -- by your -- ' ` Nay , Ethel , had he come home , it was his great wish to have done it . 
repeated Ethel . 
It did not seem to be what Alan had intended ; he had figured to himself unmixed joy , and she wanted to see it , and something of the wayward impatience of weakness throbbed at her heart , as Ethel paced the room , and disappeared in her own curtained recess . 
Presently she came back saying , ` You are sure you are glad ? ' 
` See , Ethel , here are blessings springing up from what I used to think had served for nothing but to bring him pain and grief . 
said Ethel , sadly . 
The deepened colour in his cheek betrayed how much he felt , as he cast an anxious glance towards Margaret -- an enquiring one on Ethel . 
` She is so pleased , ' was all Ethel could say . 
` I thought she would be , ' said Richard , approaching . 
` Captain Gordon seemed quite vexed that no special token of remembrance was left to her . ' 
And Ethel knew that the Church was his token to Margaret , and that any `` fading frail memorial '' would have lessened the force of the signification . 
Ethel could speak better to her brother than to her sister . 
she cried , and a most unusual thing with both , she flung her arms round his neck . 
` You had faith and perseverance , ' said Richard , ` or -- ' ` You are right , ' said Margaret , as Ethel was about to disclaim . 
` It was Ethel 's steadiness that brought it before Alan 's mind . 
If she had yielded when we almost wished it , in the time of the distress about Mrs. Green , I do believe that all would have died away ! ' 
You and Ritchie and Mr. Wilmot -- ' said Ethel , half-crying ; then , as if unable to stay , she exclaimed with a sort of petulance , ` And there 's Harry playing all sorts of rigs with Aubrey ! 
And away she rushed to the wayfaring dust of her life of labour , to find Aubrey and Daisy half-way up the tulip tree , and Harry mischievously unwilling to help them down again , assuring her that such news deserved a holiday , and that she was growing a worse Tartar than Miss Winter . 
Whereat Ethel was demurring , when Dr. May came forth , and declared he should take her himself . 
Dr. May and Ethel repudiated thanks almost with terror ; and , when he tried them with the Captain , he found very doubtful approval of the whole measure , so that Harry alone was a ready acceptant of a full meed of acknowledgments for his gallant extraction of the will . 
said Ethel . 
It was singular that Ethel 's vision should have been fulfilled simultaneously with Flora 's having obtained a position so far beyond what could have been anticipated . 
He seemed fully to suffice to her as a companion , although she was so far superior in power ; for it was , perhaps , her nature to love best that which depended upon her , and gave her a sense of exercising protection ; as she had always loved Margaret better than Ethel . 
If any other life did but seem appointed for me , but one can not tell what is thwarting providential leading , and if this be as good a man as -- What would Ethel say ? 
The lurking conviction was , that one confidential talk with Ethel , would cause the humming-bird to break the toils that were being wound invisibly round her . 
Ethel and her father knew nothing of the world , and were so unreasonable in their requirements ! 
Meta would consult them all , and all her scruples would awaken , and perhaps Dr. Spencer might be interrogated on Sir Henry 's life abroad , where Flora had a suspicion that gossip had best not be raked up . 
She found herself happily married to one whom home notions would have rejected , and she believed Meta would be perfectly happy with a man of decided talent , honour , and unstained character , even though he should not come up to her father 's or Ethel 's standard . 
So she wrote that she could not come home ; Margaret was much disappointed , and so was Meta , who had looked to Ethel to unravel the tangles of her life . 
` No , no , little Miss , ' said Flora to herself ; ` you do n't talk to Ethel till your fate is irrevocable . 
Why , if I had listened to her , I should be thankful to be singing at Mrs. Hoxton 's parties at this minute ! 
And , with Meta lady of Cocksmoor , even Ethel herself must be charmed ! ' 
No one was invited to be present ; Ethel wrote that , much as she wished it , she could not leave Margaret , and , as the whole party were to return home on the following day , they should soon see Flora . 
she must be ennobled , she thought , by having a child where hers is , when she is able to feel anything but the first grief ; and Ethel 's heart yearned to be trying , at least , to comfort her , and to be with her father , who had loved his grandchild so fondly . 
Margaret had borne so many shocks with such calmness , that Ethel had no especial fears for her ; but there are some persons who have less fortitude for others than for themselves , and she was one of these . 
In the middle of the night , Ethel knocked at Richard 's door . 
Her whole heart was with Flora ; she was unhappy at being at a distance from her , almost fretfully impatient for letters , and insisting vehemently on Ethel 's going to London . 
Ethel had never felt so helpless and desolate , as with Margaret thus changed and broken , and her father absent . 
sighed Ethel . 
I will write to him , and we shall see her better before post time . ' 
` You will tell him exactly how it was , or I shall , ' said Ethel , abruptly , not to say fiercely . 
said Dr. Spencer , smiling , so that she was ashamed of her speech . 
` You shall speak for yourself , and I for myself ; and I shall say that nothing would so much hurt her as to have others sacrificed to her . ' 
` That is true , ' said Ethel ; ` but she misses papa . ' 
` Of course she does ; but , depend on it , she would not have him leave your sister , and she is under less restraint without him . 
` I never saw her like this ! ' 
She has repressed more than was good for her , and now that her guard is broken down , she gives way under the whole weight . ' 
Dr. Spencer was glad to have dismissed Ethel smiling ; and she was the better able to bear with poor Margaret 's condition of petulance . 
Richard managed her much better , being gentle and firm , and less ready to speak than Ethel , and he succeeded in composing her into a sleep , which restored her balance , and so relieved Ethel , that she not only allowed Dr. Spencer to say what he pleased , but herself made light of the whole attack , little knowing how perilous was any shock to that delicate frame . 
Richard and Ethel each offered to go with them ; they could not bear to think of their spending that first evening in their childless home , but Flora gently , but decidedly refused ; and Dr. May said that , much as he wished to be with them , he believed that Flora preferred having no one but Meta . 
Ethel looked on at Flora as a sad and perplexing mystery during the weeks that ensued . 
Yet Ethel could not believe that the presence of the awful messenger was unfelt , when she heard poor George 's heavy sigh , or when she looked at Flora 's countenance , and heard the peculiar low , subdued tone of her voice , which , when her words were most cheerful , always seemed to Ethel the resigned accent of despair . 
Ethel could not talk her over with Margaret , for all seemed to make it a point that Margaret should believe the best . 
Ethel , though shocked by the unwonted manner of his answer , was somewhat consoled by perceiving that a double measure of tenderness had sprung up between her father and his poor daughter . 
Ethel could gather no more than that her father was very unhappy about Flora , and that Richard understood why ; for Richard had told her that he had written to Flora , to try to persuade her to cease from this reserve , but that he had no reply . 
As to Meta , she was Ethel 's chief consolation , by the redoubled assurances , directed to Ethel 's unexpressed dread , lest Flora should be rejecting the chastening Hand . 
` If Ethel could only see how she let herself sink together as it were , and her whole countenance relax , as soon as he was out of sight , ' Meta said , ` she could not doubt what misery these efforts were to her . ' 
said Ethel . 
` What would become of him without her ? 
If he misses her for ten minutes , he roams about lost , and he can not enjoy anything without her . 
I can not think how he can help seeing what hard work it is , and how he can be contented with those dreadful sham smiles ; but as long as she can give him pleasure , poor Flora will toil for him . ' 
` It is very selfish , ' Ethel caught herself saying . 
Good honest fellow , he really thinks it does her good and pleases her . 
I was so sorry one evening when I tried to take her place at that perpetual ecarté , and told him it teased her ; he went so wistfully to her , and asked whether it did , and she exerted herself into such painful enjoyment to persuade him to the contrary ; and afterwards she said to me , `` Let me alone , dearest -- is the only thing left me . 
''' ` There is something in being husband and wife that one can not understand , ' slowly said Ethel , so much in her quaint way , that Meta laughed . 
Had it not been for Norman 's absence , Ethel would , in the warm sympathy and accustomed manner of Meta Rivers , have forgotten all about the hopes and fears that , in brighter days , had centred on that small personage ; until one day , as she came home from Cocksmoor , she found `` Sir Henry Walkinghame 's '' card on the drawingroom table . 
was her amiable reflection ! 
Meta , in her riding-habit , peeped out of Margaret 's room . 
said Ethel , while Margaret looked on , amazed at her audacity . 
said Ethel . 
` At least , ' said Ethel , ` you ca n't go till after your birthday , Miss Heiress . ' 
She was seldom down-stairs before the evening , and Ethel thought his habit of making her apartment his sitting-room , must be as inconvenient to her , as it was to herself ; but Hector could not be de trop for Margaret . 
She exerted herself to fulfil for him all the little sisterly offices that , with her brothers , had been transferred to Ethel and Mary ; she threw herself into all his schemes , tried to make him endure Captain Gordon , and she even read his favourite book of Wild Sports , though her feelings were constantly lacerated by the miseries of the slaughtered animals . 
Her couch was to him as a home , and he had awakened her bright soft liveliness which had been only dimmed for a time . 
The Church was her other great interest , and Dr. Spencer humoured her by shewing her all his drawings , consulting her on every ornament , and making many a perspective elevation , merely that she might see the effect . 
Richard and Tom made it their recreation to construct a model of the Church as a present for her , and Tom developed a genius for carving , which proved a beneficial interest to keep him from surliness . 
You said how Cocksmoor had been blessed to Margaret -- I think it is the same with them all -- not only Ethel and Richard , who have been immediately concerned ; but that one object has been a centre and aim to elevate the whole family , and give force and unity to their efforts . 
The meeting was at once decided upon , though Ethel could not see why people could not give without speechifying , and her two younger brothers declared it was humbug -- Tom saying , he wished all blackamoors were out of creation , and Harry , that he could not stand palaver about his friend David . 
Ethel had a shrewd guess . 
She remembered his having , in the flush of joy at Margaret 's engagement , rather prematurely caused a seal to be cut with a Daisy , and `` Pearl of the meadow '' as the motto ; and his having said that he should keep it as a wedding present . 
` Ethel out and Norman ? 
Never mind waiting to tell Ethel . 
A call might come , as Cocksmoor did to Ethel . 
Meta smiled , and was pleased to think that her first-fruits would be offered to-morrow . 
sighed Etheldred , as she fastened her white muslin , ` I 'm afraid it is my nature to hate my neighbour ! ' 
` My dear Ethel , what is coming next ? ' 
` I like my neighbour at home , and whom I have to work for , very much , ' said Ethel , ` but oh ! 
said Ethel . 
` It is very ungrateful of me , ' said Ethel , ` when Dr. Spencer works so hard for us , not to be willing to grant anything to him . ' 
` Yes -- ' said Ethel , ` if we could do it without holding forth ! ' 
` Come , Ethel , it is much better than the bazaar -- it is no field for vanity . ' 
` Certainly not , ' said Ethel . 
She did not seem to have made it a mere geographical lesson , like Fanny Grigg -- ' Ethel 's misanthropy was happily conducted off via the Cocksmoor children , and any lingering remains were dissipated by her amusement at Dr. Spencer 's ecstacy on seeing Dr. May assume his red robe of office , to go to the Minster in state , with the Town Council . 
Ethel was one of those to whom representation was such a penance , that a festival , necessitating hospitality to guests of her own rank , was burthen enough seriously to disturb the repose of thankfulness for the attainment of her object , and to render difficult the recueillement which she needed for the praise and prayer that she felt due from her , and which seemed to oppress her heart , by a sense of the inadequacy of her partial expression . 
It was well for her that the day began with the calm service in the Minster , where it was her own fault if cares haunted her , and she could confess the sin of her irritated sensations , and wishes to have all her own way , and then , as ever , be led aright into thanksgiving for the unlooked for crowning of her labours . 
the gaiety of the serious , and the first public spectacle to the young , who , like Blanche and Aubrey , gaze with admiration at the rows of bonnets , and with awe at the black coats on the platform , while the relations of the said black coats suffer , like Ethel , from nervous dread of the public speaking of their best friends . 
Her expectations were realized by the Archdeacon 's speech , which went round in a circle , as if he could not find his way out of it . 
Lord Cosham was fluent , but a great many words went to very small substance ; and no wonder , thought Ethel , when all they had to propose and second was the obvious fact that Missions were very good things . 
Dr. Hoxton pompously , Sir Henry Walkinghame creditably , assisted the ladies and gentlemen to resolve that the S. P. G. wanted help ; Mr. Lake made a stammering , and Mr. Rivers , with his good-natured face , hearty manner , and good voice , came in well after him , with a straightforward speech , so brief , that Ethel gave Flora credit for the best she had yet heard . 
Ethel hardly would have known who was speaking had her eyes been shut . 
With half a sigh , Ethel saw Norman rise , and step forward . 
Ethel , who had sat like one enchanted , forgetting who spoke , forgetting all save the islanders , half-turned , and met Richard 's smiling eyes , and his whisper -- `` I told you so . '' 
Margaret received the reports of the select few , who visited her up-stairs , where she was kept quiet , and only heard the hum of the swarm , whom Dr. May , in vehement hospitality , had brought home to luncheon , to Ethel 's great dread , lest there should not be enough for them to eat . 
` Ethel does well when she is in for it , like Norman . 
` Ethel and Mary ought to have a lift , and I have had no walking to-day . ' 
` That fence which even Ethel and Mary avoid ! ' 
` Mary climbs like a cow , and Ethel like a father-long-legs , ' said Tom . 
And I know , or do not know , how often Ethel takes the same walk . ' 
` Ethel is no rule . ' 
` Circumstances have formed Ethel . ' 
` I hear so much of what girls would do , if they might , or could , that I long to see them like Ethel -- do what they can . 
Meta , brave as she was , hardly knew her uncle enough to volunteer , and Norman was privately devising , a beginning by the way of George , when Dr. May said , ` Well , since it is not a case for putting Ethel in the forefront , I must e ` en get it over for you , I suppose . ' 
Ethel recognized Alan Ernescliffe 's pearl hoop , the betrothal ring , and looked at her sister without a word . 
So Margaret joined in Alan 's offering , and Ethel dared say no more , as she thought how the `` relic of a frail love lost '' was becoming the `` token of endless love begun . '' 
Dr. May had arrived , declaring himself the proudest Doctor in her Majesty 's dominions , and Ethel needed nothing but his face to explain why , and tell her that dear old June 's troubles were over , and their pretty little Meta was their own -- a joy little looked for to attend their foundation stone . 
Mary gazed and believed ; Margaret lay still and gently assented ; Ethel was silent at first , and only when the fabric became extremely airy and magnificent , put in her word with a vehement dash at the present abuses , which grieved her spirit above all , and , whether vulnerable or not , Norman was to dispose of , like so many giants before Mr. Great-heart . 
She went upstairs , unable to analyze her sentiments . 
To be spared the separation would be infinite relief -- all this prosperity made her exult -- the fair girl at the Grange was the delight of her heart , and yet there was a sense of falling off ; she disliked herself for being either glad or sorry , and could have quarrelled with the lovers for perplexing her feelings so uncomfortably . 
Though she sat up till the arty returned , she was inclined to be supposed in bed , so as o put off the moment of meeting ; but Margaret , who she hoped was asleep , said from her pillow , ` Ask dear Norman to let met give him one kiss . ' 
` I beg your pardon , ' said Ethel , claiming heartily his caress . 
Ethel had some private fears of a scene , since it was one of Miss Bracy 's idiosyncracies to be hurt whenever Mary was taken out of her hands ; and she went to announce the design , in dread lest this shock should destroy the harmony that had prevailed for many months ; nay , she almost believed , since the loss of the Alcestis had been known . 
Miss Bracy thought Mary in need of the change , and discussed both her and Blanche in so pleasant and sensible a manner , that Ethel was quite relieved . 
She partook in Mary 's anticipations of pleasure , forwarded her preparations , and was delighted with her promise of letters -- promises that Mary bestowed so largely , in the fulness of her heart , that there were fears lest her whole time should be spent in writing . 
Her soft heart indulged in a shower of tears when she wished them all good-bye ; and Ethel and Blanche found the house was very empty without her ; but that was only till Meta came in from a walk with Norman , and , under the plea of trying to supply Mary 's place , did the work of five Maries , and a great deal besides . 
Whether it were novelty or not , she certainly had an aptitude and delight in domestic details , such as Ethel never could attain ; and , as Dr. May said , the one performed by a little finger what the other laboured at with a great mind . 
She enlivened Miss Bracy so much , and so often contrived a walk or a talk with her , that the saucy Blanche told Hector that she thought Ethel would be quite second-fiddle with Miss Bracy . 
Nothing could be more salutary than to find herself repeating all Ethel 's pieces of advice ; and , one day , when her friend had been more distressed than usual , she called Ethel herself , to consult on her answer , owning how much she was reminded of herself . 
` Indeed , ' she added , ` I am afraid it would only tease you to hear how much I am indebted to your decision and kindness -- ' ` Nay , ' said Ethel , laughing her awkward laugh . 
` Pray do n't say that -- ' ` I think , ' said Ethel , breaking in , ` the philosophy is this : I believe that it is a trying life . 
` Just so , ' said Ethel . 
` You would forgive it now , I think , ' said Ethel . 
I have told her so now ; and , oh ! 
if she could but have seen how true sorrows are borne here , she would be cured , like me , of making imaginary ones . ' 
` None could help being better for living with papa , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel made Miss Bracy happy by a kiss before she left her . 
It was a cheering belief that , whatever the future trials of her life might be , the gentle little lady would meet them with a healthier mind , more vigorous in overlooking troubles , and without punctilious sensitiveness on the look-out for affronts . 
Ethel might not have been blameless or consistent in her dealings in this difficult intercourse , but her kind heart , upright intention , and force of character , had influence far beyond her own perception . 
Indeed , she knew not that she had personal influence at all , but went on in her own straight-forward humility . 
The time-piece pointed towards ten o'clock , but the tea-things were on the table , prepared for a meal , the lamp shone with a sort of consciousness , and Ethel moved restelessly about , sometimes settling her tea equipage , sometimes putting away a stray book , or resorting by turns to her book , or to work a red and gold scroll on coarse canvas , on the other end of which Meta was employed . 
` Nervous , Ethel ? ' 
` That is for you , ' retorted Ethel , preferring to carry the war into the enemy 's quarters . 
` What , do n't you know that prudent people say that your fate depends on her report ? ' 
` I know very well , ' said Ethel , ` the worse she said it would be , the more you would go . ' 
said Ethel . 
asked Ethel . 
You should not ask such questions , Ethel . ' 
it wo n't happen , so it is no use to talk about it , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel , surveying the little elegant figure , whose great characteristic was a look of exquisite finish , not only in the features and colouring , the turn of the head , and the shape of the small rosy-tipped fingers , but in everything she wore , from the braids of black silk hair , to the little shoe on her foot , and even in the very lightness and gaiety of her movements . 
Ethel ! ' 
` You 'll never get rid of it , ' said Ethel , ` unless you get yourself tattooed ! 
` That is your own case , Ethel . 
said Ethel , contemptuously . 
Ethel crimsoned , and made a sign with her hand , exclaiming , ` Hark ! ' 
She must be walking down ! ' 
Ethel breathed short , and wandered aimlessly about -- Meta put her arm round her waist . 
` I did not think this would be so much to you , ' she said . 
Ethel flew into the hall , where she stopped short , her heart beating high at the sound of overpoweringly familiar accents . 
She was almost relieved by detecting otherwise little resemblance ; the height was nearly the same , but there was not the plump softness of outline . 
Dr. May , who had led her into the light , seemed to be looking her all over , while Richard was taking her wraps from her , and Ethel tried to encourage herself to go forward . 
said the Doctor , ' kissing her . 
` This must be Ethel ! 
And , ' as she advanced into the drawing-room -- ` why , surely this is not Margaret . ' 
` They are staying at Eccleswood Castle , ' said Ethel ; ` and Mary with them . 
` There are three great creatures , whom Ethel barbarously ordered off to bed . 
Ethel is master here , you must know , Flora -- we all mind what she says . ' 
` O papa , ' pleaded Ethel , distressed , ` you know it was because I thought numbers might be oppressive . ' 
Seeing that Ethel took the imputation to heart , Meta rejoined . 
` Of course , ' said Ethel , ` I ca n't be vituperated about hunches of bread . 
` See how they propitiate her , ' maliciously observed the Doctor . 
` Not at all ; it is Richard standing up for his pupil , ' said Ethel . 
` My dear Harry -- I presume Ethel has not sent him to bed . 
` And more -- ' said Ethel . 
To see her father so happy with Mrs. Arnott necessarily drew Ethel 's heart towards her ; and , when they had bidden him good night , the aunt instantly assumed a caressing confidence towards Ethel , particularly comfortable to one consciously backward and awkward , and making her feel as intimate as if the whole space of her rational life had not elapsed since their last meeting . 
said her aunt , detaining her over her fire . 
He looks aged and thin , Ethel , and yet that sweet expression is the same as ever . 
` Not exactly anxious , ' said Ethel , mournfully -- ` there is not much room for that . ' 
` My dear Ethel -- you do n't mean ? 
-- I thought -- ' ` I suppose we ought to have written more fully , ' said Ethel , ` but it has been very gradual , and we never say it to ourselves . 
She is as bright , and happy , and comfortable as ever , in general , and , perhaps , may be so for a long time yet , but each attack weakens her . ' 
Ethel rested her head on her shoulder . 
Then , ' added Ethel , not able to leave off with such a subject , ` you have our Norman to see . ' 
` But , Ethel , I am quite frightened at Miss Rivers 's looks . 
Is it possible that -- ' ` Aunt Flora , ' broke in Ethel , ` do n't say a word against it . 
If you had him there alone , he would be a bee without a queen -- ' ` Well , but -- ' ` Listen , ' continued Ethel . 
` Thank you , Ethel ; perhaps you are right . 
` Does she live with you ? ' 
` I suppose she lives with Flora ; but we always manage to get her when Norman is at home . ' 
She is a -- a nice old darling , ' said Ethel , fondly . 
` We want her again very much , and did not quite bargain for the succession of smart visits that she has been paying . ' 
Ethel stopped short , and said that she must not keep Margaret expecting her . 
Mrs. Arnott fondly caressed her , but could not speak at first , for even her conversation with Ethel had not prepared her for so wasted , and broken an appearance . 
` I have never seen Cocksmoor ; but Dr. Spencer and Meta are always sketching it for me , and Ethel would not let an effect pass without telling me . 
Ethel came up as Aubrey began to absorb the conversation . 
` Lessons , Aubrey , ' she said . 
` Not forestalling you too much I hope , Ethel , dear , ' said Margaret ; ` as you will shew her the Church itself . ' 
` You have the best right , ' said Ethel ; ` but come , Aubrey , we must not dawdle . ' 
` Ethel has him in excellent order , ' said Mrs. Arnott . 
` I expected to be struck with Ethel , ' said Mrs. Arnott ; ` and -- ' ` Well , ' said Margaret , waiting . 
` Harry described her to me thus , ' said Mrs. Arnott , smiling : ``` As to Ethel , she is an odd fish ; but Cocksmoor will make a woman of her after all . 
Cocksmoor gave the stimulus , and made Ethel what she is . 
That one of St. Andrew introducing the lad with the loaves and fishes is Ethel 's window . 
It is the produce of the hoard she began this time seven years , when she had but one sovereign in the world . 
She kept steadily on with it , spending nothing on herself that she could avoid , always intending it for the Church , and it was just enough to pay for this window . ' 
I do not mean that she has not always her own dear full sympathy for everyone 's concerns , but Cocksmoor is her concern , almost more than even Ethel 's . 
And not only with the Church but the people ; she knows all about every family ; Richard and Ethel tell her all their news ; she talks over the school with the mistress every Sunday , and you can not think what a feeling there is for her at Cocksmoor . 
The book , the writing materials , and work-basket were indeed placed by her side , but very seldom did the feeble fingers engage in any of the occupations once so familiar -- now and then a pencilled note would be sent to Flora , or to Hector Ernescliffe , or a few stitches be set in her work , or a page or two turned of a book , but she was far more often perfectly still , living , assuredly in no ordinary sphere of human life , but never otherwise than cheerful , and open to the various tidings and interests which , as Ethel had formerly said , shifted before her like scenes in a magic lantern , and , perhaps , with less of substance than in those earlier days , when her work among them was not yet done , and she was not , as it were , set aside from them . 
They were now little more than shadows reflected from the world whence she was passing . 
Yet her home was not sad . 
When Dr. Spencer came in the evening , and old Edinburgh stories were discussed , Dr. May talked with spirit , and laughed with the merry note that Mrs. Arnott so well remembered , and Meta Rivers chimed in with her gay , saucy repartees , nor , though Richard was always silent , and Ethel 's brow seemed to bear a weight of thought , did it seem as if their spirits were depressed ; while there was certainly no restraint on the glee of Blanche , Aubrey , and Gertrude , who were running into Margaret 's room , and making as much noise there as they chose . 
Aubrey , Margaret said , smiling , was Ethel 's child , and had long been off her mind ; Hector , to her quite a brother , would miss her almost more than her own brothers , but good honest fellow , he had a home here ; and , whispered Margaret , smiling and glowing a little , `` do n't tell anyone , for it is a secret of secrets . 
` Besides , ' said Margaret , serenely , ` it has been good for him to have been gradually weaned from depending on me , so that it is Ethel who is really necessary to him . ' 
She fluttered about the house , visited Margaret , played with Gertrude , set the drawing-room ornaments to rights -- a task which Ethel was very glad to depute to her , and made a great many expeditions into the garden to put together autumn nosegays for the vases -- finally discovering that Ethel 's potichomanie vases on the staircase window , must have some red and brown leaves . 
She did not come back quite so soon with them , and Mrs. Arnott , slyly looking out of window , reported , ` Ha ! 
he is come then ! 
cried Ethel . 
` As a hen thinks of her ducklings when they go into waters beyond her ken , ' said Ethel . 
` There 's only Lord Cosham further to guess , ' said Ethel . 
` None the less for having followed his father 's wishes -- I am glad he did , ' said Ethel , coming to her brother 's side . 
` I know that he was greatly struck with Ethel at the time of the Commemoration , and therefore I could never again press him to come here . ' 
They are good , kind people , but with strong prejudices ; and , though I have no doubt they would have yielded to steady attachment on their son 's part , and such conduct as Ethel 's would have been , I could not lead in that direction . ' 
` It is doing by others as you were doing by yourself , ' half-whispered Meta ; ` but , after all , if he had no constancy , Ethel had an escape . ' 
` I was afraid that she had been rather touched , but I am glad to find myself mistaken . ' 
` I had made myself so nervous as to the effect , that , in desperation , I took her own way , and came out at once with it as unconsciously as I could . ' 
It was better than insulting her by seeming to condole . 
Not that I do , though , for she deserves more steadiness than he has shown ! 
If a man could appreciate her at all , I should have thought that it would have been once and for ever . ' 
` Remember , he had barely known her a fortnight , and probably had no reason to believe that he had made any impression on her . 
You make a good defence , Norman , but I can not forgive him for marrying somebody else , who can not be Ethel 's equal . ' 
` She is a good little girl ; he will form her , and be very happy ; perhaps more so than with a great soul and strong nature , like Ethel 's . ' 
Moreover , what would become of home without Ethel ? ' 
Norman was right in his view of his friends motives , as well as of Ethel 's present feelings . 
She had never given away the depths of her heart , though the upper surface had been stirred . 
All had long subsided , and she could think freely of him as an agreeable cousin , in whose brilliant public career she should always be interested , without either a wish to partake it , or a sense of injury or neglect . 
She had her vocation , in her father , Margaret , the children , home and Cocksmoor ; her mind and affections were occupied , and she never thought of wishing herself elsewhere . 
The new Church and the expected return of her sisters , engrossed many more of her thoughts than did anything relating to Glenbracken . 
She could not bear to talk of Flora , though almost as uneasy as was Margaret ; and not able to lay aside misgivings , lest even her good simple Mary might have had her head turned by gaiety . 
It was a short visit , and all that Ethel could discover was , that Flora was looking very ill , no longer able to conceal the worn and fagged expression of her countenance , and evidently dreadfully shocked by the sight of the havoc made by disease on Margaret 's frame . 
During the short visit , Mary had moved and spoken so quietly , and looked so well-dressed , and young-lady-like , that , in spite of her comfortable plump cheeks , Ethel felt quite afraid ! 
-- and Ethel knew she had her own Mary . 
Norman opened it , to claim Meta at once for the walk ; Mrs. Arnott and Mary had gone on to assist Richard in his final arrangements , but even before Cocksmoor , with Ethel , was now the care of Margaret ; and she had waited with her father to keep all bustle from her room , and to commit her into the charge of Flora and of nurse . 
Ethel seemed quite unwilling to go . 
There was that strange oppressed feeling on her as if the attainment of her wishes were joy too great to be real -- as if she would fain hold off from it at the climax , and linger with the sister who had shared all with her , and to whom that Church was even more than to herself . 
He became so impatient of Ethel 's delays , that she perceived that he could bear them no longer , gave her final kiss , and whispered , ` In spirit with us ! ' 
Ethel , meanwhile , stood between Aubrey and Gertrude , hardly able to believe it was not a dream , as she beheld the procession enter the Aisle , and heard the Psalm that called on those doors to lift up their heads for Him who should enter . 
Margaret was in her mind the whole time , woven , as it were , into every supplication and every note of praise ; and when there came the intercession for those in sickness and suffering , flowing into the commemoration of those departed in faith and fear , Ethel 's spirit sank for a moment at the conviction , that soon Margaret , like him , whom all must bear in mind on that day , might be included in that thanksgiving ; yet , as the service proceeded , leaving more and more of earth behind , and the voices joined with Angel and Archangel , Ethel could lose the present grief , and only retain the certainty that , come what might , there was joy and union amid those who sung that Hymn of praise . 
Never had Ethel been so happy -- not in the sense of the finished work -- no , she had lost all that , but in being more carried out of herself than ever she had been before , the free spirit of praise so bearing up her heart that the cry of Glory came from her with such an exulting gladness , as might surely be reckoned as one of those foretastes of our Everlasting Life , not often vouchsafed even to the faithful , and usually sent to prepare strength for what may be in store . 
The blessing brought the sense of peace , which hung on her even while the sounds of movement began , and the congregation were emerging . 
As she came out , greetings , sentences of admiration of the Church , and of enquiry for her absent sisters , were crowded upon her , as people moved towards the school , where a luncheon was provided for them , to pass away the interval until evening service . 
The half-dozen oldest Cocksmoorites were , meantime , to have a dinner in the former school-room , at the Elwood 's house , and Ethel was anxious to see that all was right there , so , while the rest of her party were doing civil things , she gave her arm to Cherry , whose limping walk shewed her to be very tired . 
` Her heart is , ' said Ethel . 
You would not think , ma'am , how all the children take heed to anything about her . 
` She has done more for the real good of Cocksmoor than anyone else , ' said Ethel . 
Ethel hastened to retreat within Mrs. Elwood 's wicket gate , but she was arrested by Richard , and found herself being presented to the Bishop , and the Bishop shaking hands with her , and saying that he had much wished to be introduced to her . 
Of course , that was because she was her father 's daughter , and by way of-something to say . 
She mentioned what was going on at the cottage , whereupon the Bishop wished to go in and see the old people ; and , entering , they found the very comfortable-looking party just sitting down to roast-beef and goose . 
The Bishop said Grace , and left Granny to the goose , while he gave Ethel his arm , which she would have thought an unaccountable proceeding if she had not recollected that Richard might be considered as host , and that she was his eldest sister forthcoming . 
No sooner , however , had they come beyond the wicket than she saw her father speaking to Will Adams , and there was that in the air of both which made it no surprise when Dr. May came up , saying , ` Ethel , I must carry you away ; ' and , in explanation to the Bishop , ` my poor girl at home is not so well . ' 
Ethel was frantic to be at home , and would have rushed off at once , if Richard had not held her fast , asking what good she would do by hurrying in , breathless and exhausted , so as to add to Flora 's fright and distress , the anxiety which was most upon their minds , since she had never before witnessed one of the seizures , that were only too ordinary matters in the eyes of the home party . 
No one but Dr. May and Ethel should go . 
Richard undertook to tell the rest , and the gig making its appearance , Ethel felt that the peculiarly kind manner with which the Bishop pressed her hand , and gave them all good wishes , was like a continuation of his blessing to aid her , in her home scene of trial . 
Perhaps , it was well for her that her part in the Consecration festivities should end here ; at least so thought Mr. Wilmot , who , though very sorry for the cause , could not wish her to have been present at the luncheon . 
She had not thought of self hitherto , the Church was the gift of Alan and Margaret , the work of preparing the people belonged to all alike , and she did not guess that , in the sight of others , she was not the nobody that she believed herself . 
Mrs. Arnott and Ethel were watching , and trying everything to relieve her , but with little effect , and Ethel presently stood by the fire with her father , as Dr. Spencer turned towards him , and he said , in a very low , but calm voice , ` It wo n't do -- I believe it is the death-stroke . ' 
said Ethel , in the same tone . 
` I fear it may be as trying , ' said Dr. May , sighing ; and then turning to Ethel , and throwing his arm round her , ` May God make it easy to her , and grant us `` patient hearts . '' 
We will not grudge her to all that she loves best , my Ethel . ' 
Ethel clung to him , as if to derive strength from him . 
Vain again , they only seemed to be tormenting her , and the silent helplessness prevailed again . 
` I shall be here to-morrow , ' she said to Ethel , and went . 
The agitation and distress of thst day had broken her down completely , and she was so ill as to be unable to move . 
Her aunt went at once to see her , and finding that her presence at the Grange relieved some of Dr. May 's anxieties , chiefly devoted herself to her . 
Ethel , Richard , and Mary divided between them the watching and the household cares , and their father bore up bravely in the fullness of his love and faith , resigning his daughter to the Hands which were bearing her whither her joys had long since departed . 
It was midnight , on the longest night of the year ; Ethel was lying on her bed , and had fallen into a brief slumber , when her father 's low , clear voice summoned her : ` Ethel , she is going ! ' 
Richard lifted her head , and her eyes once more opened ; she smiled once more . 
she said , ` dear papa ! ' 
He threw himself on his knees beside her , but she looked beyond him , ` Mamma ! 
and , as though the unspeakable dawned on her , she gasped for utterance , then looked , with a consoling smile , on her father . 
she said -- and the last struggle was ended . 
Ethel would not have believed that her first wakening , to the knowledge that Margaret was gone , could have been more fraught with relief than with misery . 
` Tell Ethel she will be the best mother to her . 
They were harder to bear than the peaceful days that had immediately followed the loss of Margaret ; and Ethel was especially unhappy and forlorn under the new anxiety , where she could be of no service ; and with her precious occupation gone ; her father absent , instead of resting upon her ; and her room deserted . 
She was grieved with herself , because her feelings were unable to soar at the Christmas feast , as erst on St. Andrew 's day ; and she was bewildered and distressed by the fear that she had then been only uplifted by vanity and elation . 
She told Richard so , and he said , kindly , that he thought a good deal of what she complained of arose from bodily weariness . 
This hurt her a little ; but when he said , ` I think that the blessings of St. Andrew 's day helped us through what was to follow , ' she owned that it had indeed been so , and added , ` I am going to work again ! 
Sick at heart as she was , she bravely set herself to appropriate the hours now left vacant ; and manfully walked with Richard and Harry to Church at Cocksmoor , on St. Stephen 's day ; but the Church brought back the sense of contrast . 
Next , she insisted on fulfilling their intention of coming home by Abbotstoke to hear how Flora was , when the unfavorable account only added lead to the burthen that weighted her down . 
It was very unlike Ethel 's vision of the first weeks of St. Andrew 's Church ; but it might be safer for her than that aught should tempt her to say , ` See what my perseverance has wrought ! ' 
Perhaps her Margaret had begun to admire her too much to be her safest confidante -- at any rate , it was good still to sow in tears , rather than on earth to reap in confident joy . 
Norman was as brotherly and kind as possible ; but it was one of the dreary feelings of those days , that Ethel then first became aware of the difference that his engagement had made , and saw that he resorted elsewhere for sympathy . 
She was not jealous , and acquiesced submissively and resolutely ; but they had been so much to each other , that it was a trial , especially at such a time as this , when freshly deprived of Margaret . 
I must try to talk to Ethel -- she may better understand her . ' 
The seeing of Ethel was one of the difficult questions . 
Her aunt found her one day almost faint with agitation -- she had heard Ethel 's voice in the next room , and had been winding up her expectations , and now was as much grieved as relieved , to find that she had been there seeing the baby , but was now gone . 
` How does the dear Ethel look ? ' 
` Dear old Ethel ! 
Can you tell me how she bore the news of Norman Ogilvie 's engagement ? ' 
` Do you recollect the comparison between Norman , Ethel , and me ? 
Norman , who was ambitious and loved praise , but now dreads nothing so much ; Ethel , who never cared for anything of the kind , but went straight on her own brave way ; and , oh ! 
You see , at that dreadful time , after the accident , I was the eldest who was able to be efficient , and much more useful than poor Ethel . 
It made me jealous of Ethel herself , as long as we were in the same sphere ; and when I felt that she was more to papa than I could be , I looked beyond home for praise . 
I thought it would be a grand thing to bring about , but , you see , as it has turned out , all I thought I had done for it was in vain ; and Ethel has been the real person and does not know it . 
I used to think Ethel so inferior to me . 
I left her all my work at home . 
If it had not been for that , she might have been happy with Norman Ogilvie -- for never were two people better matched , and now she has done what I never thought to have left to another -- watched over our own Margaret . 
` My dear , I am sure nothing can be more affectionate than Ethel . 
She does not think these things . ' 
` She does , ' said Flora . 
Ethel ! 
The effect of the conversation was , that the next day , the last of the twelve Christmas days , when Ethel , whose yearning after her sister was almost equally divided between dread and eagerness -- eagerness for her embrace , and dread of the chill of her reserve , came once again in hopes of an interview . 
Dr. May called her at once -- ` I shall take you in without any preparation , ' he said , ` that she may not have time to be flurried . 
Did he know what a mountain there was in her throat when he seemed to think it so easy to be natural ? 
She found him leading her into a darkened room , and heard his cheerful tones saying , ` I have brought Ethel to you ! ' 
` Ethel ! 
said a low , weak voice , with a sound as of expecting a treat , and Ethel was within a curtain , where she began , in the dimness , to see something white moving , and her hands were clasped by two long thin ones . 
Either the recurrence to nursery language , or the mere sisterly touch after long separation , seemed to annihilate all the imaginary mutual dread , and , as Ethel bent lower and lower , and Flora 's arms were round her , the only feeling was of being together again , and both at once made the childish gesture of affection , and murmured the old pet names of ` Flossy , ' and ` King , ' that belonged to almost forgotten days , when they were baby sisters , then kissed each other again . 
` I ca n't see you , ' said Ethel , drawing herself up a little . 
dear Ethel , I have not had much of doing . 
said Ethel , ` but I should have thought it tiresome , especially for you . ' 
said Ethel -- ` He that lacks time to mourn , lacks time to mend . 
` Mending as well as mourning , ' said Ethel , thoughtfully . 
` And now you have that dear little Christmas gift to -- ' Ethel paused . 
` She is not nearly so fine and healthy as her sister was , ' said Flora , ` poor little dear . 
You know , Ethel , even now , I shall have very little time with her in that London life . 
Her papa wants me so much , and I must leave her to -- to the nurses . ' 
` Our own dear old nurse , ' said Ethel . 
I wanted to thank you all for sparing her to us , ' said Flora . 
` Very magnanimously , ' said Ethel , smiling . 
It is better for Aubrey and for her , not to return to be babies to comfort poor nurse . 
` It would not have been better for waiting , ' said Ethel ; ` and Gertrude was so proud to come to me . 
` It has been hard on you for me to engross him , ' said Flora ; ` but , oh , Ethel , I could not spare him . 
` You have found it out , ' said Ethel , in an odd , dry manner ; which , in sound , though not in feeling , was a contrast to the soft , whispering , tearful murmurs of her sister . 
it is coming to an end very fast , ' said Ethel , sighing ; ` but you had the best right to her , and she and Meta have seen so much of each other . 
She tells me she is quite satisfied about Meta now . ' 
Ethel , as usual , blundered into the subject . 
Ethel was aghast . 
` It would be a good thing to get rid of a fine wedding , ' said Ethel ; ` but they will never consent ! ' 
` Papa would be happier about Norman , ' said Ethel ; ` but I can not fancy his liking it . 
Ethel gasped at the thought that her occupation at home was gone , but she said -- ` If I am not too awkward for you , dear Flora . 
Dr. May came in to break up the conversation , and Ethel quickly guessed from his manner that Norman had been talking to him . 
Flora told him that she had been agreeing with Ethel that Meta had much better not miss this opportunity . 
He was far less startled than Ethel had expected ; indeed , the proposal was rather a relief to his mind , and his chief objection was the fear that Flora would be fatigued by the extra bustle , but she promised not to trouble herself about it , otherwise than that if Norman could not persuade Meta , she would . 
Ethel felt as if she had found something like a dim reflection of Margaret , and Flora 's fear of Ethel had fled away from the mere force of sisterhood . 
Ethel was left at the Grange for the ensuing fortnight -- a time of unusual leisure both to her and to Flora , which they both prized highly , for it taught them to know each other as they had never done before . 
Flora 's confidence to her Aunt had been a good thing for her , though so partial ; it opened the way for further unreserve to one who knew the circumstances better , and , as to dread of Ethel , that could seldom prevail in her presence , partly from long habit , partly from her deficiency of manner , and still more from her true humility and affection . 
Gradually she arrived at the perception of the history of her sister 's mind ; understood what gloom had once overshadowed it ; and how , since light had once shone upon her , she shrank not merely from the tasks that had become wearisome to her , but from the dread of losing among them her present peace . 
` They are your duty , ' argued Ethel . 
` They are now , ' said Ethel . 
` Are you come to their defence , Ethel ? 
` If they are not duties , I would not do them , ' said Ethel . 
` Ethel , ' cried her sister , raising herself from her couch , eagerly , ` I will say it to you ! 
said Ethel . 
said Ethel , not in too complimentary a strain . 
exclaimed Ethel . 
` It is never vain to contend with evil , ' said Ethel . 
` I ca n't say that I think it is , ' said Ethel . 
` But , Flora , ' said Ethel , a little startled . 
` Stop a minute , ' said Ethel , as if poor Flora could have done anything but lie still on her sofa . 
said Ethel . 
` Yes , ' said Flora , hesitatingly ; for she knew it was true -- he liked to think himself important , and it gave him something to think of , and regular occupation -- not too active or onerous ; but she could not tell Ethel what she herself felt ; that all she could do for him could not prevent him from being held cheap by the men among whom she had placed him . 
` Then , ' said Ethel , as she heard her affirmative , ` I do n't think it for his dignity , for you to put him into parliament to please you , and then take him out to please you . ' 
` Whether this is truth or fancy , ' said Ethel , thoughtfully . 
Poultry was a new hobby , and Ethel had been hearing , in her tête à tête dinners with George , a great deal about the perfections of the hideous monsters that had obtained fabulous prices . 
They had been the best resource for conversation ; but she watched , with something between vexation and softness , how Flora roused herself to give her full attention and interest to his prosing about his pets , really pleased as it seemed ; and , at last , encouraging him actually to fetch his favourite cock to shew her ; when she went through the points of perfection of the ungainly mass of feathers , and did not at all allow Ethel to laugh at the unerthly sounds of disapproval which handling elicited . 
thought Ethel . 
So Ethel did her best , and said the cock had a bright eye -- all she could say for him -- and George instructed her to admire the awkward legs , and invited her to a poultry show , at Whitford , in two days ' time -- and they sent him away to continue his consultations with the poultry woman , which pullets should be preferred as candidates for a prize . 
` I hope you will go , Ethel . 
` Still , ' said Ethel , ` the more I think , the more sure I am that you ought to ask advice . ' 
` I do know what to say , ' said Ethel ; ` and that is , do as the Prayer-book tells you , in any perplexity . ' 
` He is the clearest of us all in practical matters , ' said Ethel , preventing what she feared would be disparaging . 
` I do , ' said Ethel , growing bolder . 
Ethel ! 
Ethel ! 
Ethel felt herself utterly powerless to advise ; and , after a kind sound of sympathy , sat shocked , pondering on what none could answer ; whether this were , indeed , what poor Flora imagined , or whether it had been a holding-fast to the thread through the darkness . 
The proud reserve was the true evil , and Ethel prayed and trusted it might give way . 
She went very amiably to Whitford with George , and gained great credit with him , for admiring the prettiest speckled Hamburgh present ; indeed , George was becoming very fond of `` poor Ethel , '' as he still called her , and sometimes predicted that she would turn out a fine figure of a woman after all . 
Ethel heard , on her return , that Richard had been there ; and three days ' after , when Flora was making arrangements for going to Church , a moment of confidence came over her , and she said , ` I did it , Ethel ! 
` I was afraid he would say so , ' said Ethel . 
said Ethel , more hopefully , as she saw Flora bend over her baby , with a face that might one day be bright . 
For her own part , Ethel found Flora 's practical good sense and sympathy very useful , in her present need of the counsel she had always had from Margaret . 
The visit to Flora lasted a fortnight , and Ethel was much benefitted by the leisure for reading and the repose after the long nursing ; though , before the end , her refreshed energies began to pine for Daisy and her hymns , for Aubrey and his Virgil , for Cherry and her scholars , and , above all , for her father ; for , come as often as he would , it was not papa at home . 
On the other hand , Mary was at a loss for Ethel every hour ; Richard was putting off his affairs till Ethel should come home ; Miss Bracy and Blanche longed for her to relieve the school-room from the children ; Aubrey could not perform a lesson in comfort with anyone else -- never ended a sum without groaning for Ethel , and sometimes rode to Abbotstoke for the mere purpose of appealing to her ; in short , no one could get on without her , and the Doctor least of all . 
Dr. Spencer , and Mr. Wilmot , and all his sons and daughters , had done their best for him ; but , in spite of his satisfaction at seeing the two sisters so happy together , he could not help missing Ethel every minute , as the very light of his home ; and when , at last , Flora brought her back , she was received with uproarious joy by Aubrey and Daisy , while the rest of the household felt a revival and refreshment of spirits -- the first drawing aside of the cloud that had hung over the winter . 
how I have thanked you , Ethel , for those first hints you gave me how to make my life real . 
` Come , take your sprite away , Norman , if you do n't want me to keep her for good ! 
Who knows but when Doctor Tom sets up in my place , Ethel and I may come out and pay you a visit ? ' 
It was a clear evening in March , full of promise of spring , and Ethel was standing in the Church porch at Cocksmoor , after making some visits in the parish , waiting for Richard , while the bell was ringing for the Wednesday evening service , and the pearly tints of a cloudless sunset were fading into the western sky . 
Ethel began to wonder where Norman might be looking at the sun dipping into the Western sea , and thence arose before her the visions of her girlhood , when she had first dreamt of a Church on Cocksmoor , and of Richard ministering before a willing congregation . 
So strange did the accomplishment seem , that she even touched the stone to assure herself of the reality ; and therewith came intense thanksgiving that the work had been taken out of her hands , to be the more fully blessed and accomplished -- that is , as far as the building went ; as to the people , there was far more labour in store , and the same Hand must be looked to for the increase . 
For herself , Ethel looked back and looked on . 
Norman Ogilvie 's marriage seemed to her to have fixed her lot in life , and what was that lot ? 
Home and Cocksmoor had been her choice , and they were before her . 
but her eyes had been opened to see that earthly homes may not endure , nor fill the heart . 
Her dear father might , indeed , claim her full-hearted devotion , but , to him , she was only one of many . 
Norman was no longer solely hers ; and she had begun to understand that the unmarried woman must not seek undivided return of affection , and must not set her love , with exclusive eagerness , on aught below , but must be ready to cease in turn to be first with any . 
Ethel was truly a mother to the younger ones ; but she faced the probability that they would find others to whom she would have the second place . 
To love each heartily , to do her utmost for each in turn , and to be grateful for their fondness was her call ; but never to count on their affection as her sole right and inalienable possession . 
She felt that this was the probable course , and that she might look to becoming comparatively solitary in the course of years -- then tried to realize what her lonely life might be , but broke off smiling at herself , ` What is that to me ? 
My course and aim are straight on , and He will direct my paths . 
Ethel . 
