Elinor herself , now , would only call the stranger Miss Ellis , a name which , she said , she verily believed that Miss Bydel , with all her stupidity , had hit upon , and which therefore , henceforth , should be adopted . 
Mrs. Maple now , extremely anxious for her own credit , told all the servants , that she had just discovered , that the stranger who came from France , was a young lady of consequence , and she desired that they would make a report to that effect throughout the neighbourhood ; and , in the new play-bills which were now written , she suffered to see inserted , Lady Townly by Miss Ellis . 
Harleigh was the first to address the stranger by this name , previously taking an opportunity , with an air of friendly regard , to advise that she would adopt it , till she thought right to declare her own . 
She thanked him gratefully for his counsel , confessing , that she had long felt the absurdity of seeming nameless ; and adding , `` but I had made no preparation for what I so little expected , as the length of time in which I have been kept in this almost unheard of situation ! 
The look of Harleigh shewed his approbation of her motive , while his words strengthened her conviction , that it must now give way to the necessity of some denomination . 
`` Be it Ellis , then , '' said she , smiling , `` though evasion may , perhaps , be yet meaner than falsehood ! 
Ellis , therefore , which appellation , now , will be substituted for that of the Incognita , seeing no possibility of escaping this exhibition , comforted herself , that , however repugnant it might be to her inclinations , and her sense of propriety , it gave her , at least , some chance , during the remainder of her stay at Lewes , of being treated with less indignity . 
The part which she had been obliged to undertake , was too prominent to be placed in the back ground ; and the whole performance must be flat , if not ridiculous , unless Lady Townly were a principal person . 
Ireton , to whom dress , far more than feature or complexion , presented attraction , exclaimed , `` By my soul , she 's as handsome as an angel ! '' 
when , suddenly recollecting the new account which she had herself given , and caused to be spread of this young person , she forced a laugh , and added , `` Bless me , Miss Ellis , if I had not quite forgotten whom I was speaking to ! 
Why should not Miss Ellis know how to dress herself as well as any other young lady ? '' 
Though confused by being detained , Ellis could not be angry , for there was no impertinence in his fervour , no familiarity in his panegyric ; and though his speech was rapid , his manners were gentle . 
His eulogy was free from any presumption of being uttered for her gratification ; it seemed simply the uncontrollable ebullition of ingenuous gratitude . 
Surprised still more than all around her , at the pleasure which she found she had communicated , some share of it now stole insensibly into her own bosom ; and this was by no means lessened , by seeing her youthful new admirer soon followed by a lady still younger than himself , who called out , `` Do you think , brother , to monopolize Miss Ellis ? '' 
But when , on the contrary , she found that there was but one voice in favour of this unknown performer ; when not all her own pride , nor all her prejudice , could make her blind to that performer 's truly elevated carriage and appearance ; when every auditor flocked to her , with `` Who is this charming Miss Ellis ? '' 
-- `` Present us to this incomparable Miss Ellis ; '' she felt covered with shame and regret ; though compelled , for her own credit , to continue repeating , that she was a young lady of family who had passed over with her from the Continent . 
The young lord and lady , with civil but cold thanks , that spoke their dislike of this interference , both desired to be excused ; but great was their concern , and universal , throughout the apartment , was the consternation , upon observing Miss Ellis change colour , and sink upon a chair , almost fainting . 
Harleigh , who had strongly marked the grace and dignity with which she had received so much praise , now cast a glance of the keenest indignation at Mrs. Maple , attributing to her rude interruption of the little civilities so evidently softening to the stranger , this sudden indisposition ; but Mrs. Maple either saw it not , or did not understand it , and seized , with speed , the opportunity of saying , that Miss Ellis was exhausted by so much acting , and of desiring that some of the maids might help her to her chamber . 
-- Miss Ellis , what are you thinking of , to lean so against Her Ladyship ? 
cried Lady Aurora : `` Why should I not have the pleasure of assisting Miss Ellis ? '' 
And when , in some degree recovered , she rose to go , she returned her thanks to Lady Aurora with so touching a softness , with tearful eyes , and in a voice so plaintive , that Lady Aurora , affected by her manner , and charmed by her merit , desired still to support her , and , entreating that she would hold by her arm , begged permission of Mrs. Maple to accompany Miss Ellis to her chamber . 
Mrs. Maple recollecting , with the utmost confusion , the small and ordinary room allotted for Ellis , so unlike what she would have bestowed upon such a young lady as she had now described for her fellow-voyager , found no resource against exposing it to Lady Aurora , but that of detaining the object of her compassionate admiration ; she stammered , therefore , out , that as Miss Ellis seemed so much better , there could be no reason why she should not stay below , and see the dance . 
Ellis gladly courtsied her consent ; and the watchful Harleigh , in the alacrity of her acceptance , rejoiced to see a revival to the sentiments of pleasure , which the acrimonious grossness of Mrs. Maple had interrupted . 
Since the first scene , in which the stranger had so ill entered into the spirit of Lady Townly 's character , Elinor had ceased to deem her worthy of observation ; and , giving herself up wholly to her own part , had not witnessed the gradations of the improvements of Ellis , her rising excellence , nor her final perfection . 
In her own representation of Lady Wronghead , she piqued herself upon producing new effects , and had the triumph , by her cleverness and eccentricities , her grotesque attitudes and attire , and an unexpected and burlesque manner of acting , to bring the part into a consequence of which it had never appeared susceptible . 
Happy in the surprise and diversion she occasioned , and constantly occupied how to augment it , she only learnt the high success of Lady Townly , by the bursts of applause , and the unbounded admiration and astonishment , which broke forth from nearly every mouth , the instant that the audience and the performers were united . 
After two country dances , and two cotillons , the short ball was broken up , and Lady Aurora hastened to seat herself by Miss Ellis , and Lord Melbury to stand before and to converse with her , followed by all the youthful part of the company , to whom she seemed the sovereign of a little court which came to pay her homage . 
Harleigh grew every instant more enchanted ; for as she discoursed with her two fervent new admirers , her countenance brightened into an animation so radiant , her eyes became so lustrous , and smiles of so much sweetness and pleasure embellished every feature , that he almost fancied he saw her now for the first time , though her welfare , or her distresses , had for more than a month chiefly occupied his mind . 
thought he , as incessantly he contemplated her ; where hast thou thus been formed ? 
Supper being now announced , Mrs. Maple commissioned Harleigh to lead Lady Aurora down stairs , adding , with a forced smile of civility , that Miss Ellis must consult her health in retiring . 
`` Yes , Ma'am ; and Miss Ellis knows , '' cried Lady Aurora , offering her arm , `` who is to be her chevalier . '' 
She hastily , therefore , asked whether Miss Ellis thought herself well enough to sit up a little longer ; adding , `` For my part , I think it will do you good . '' 
Ellis would have declined this distinction , but that the vivacity of her ardent new friend , precipitated her to the stair-case , ere she was aware that she was the first to lead the way thither . 
Gaily , then , he would have placed her in the seat of honour , as Lady President of the evening ; but , more now upon her guard , she insisted upon standing till the visitors should be arranged , as she was herself a resident in the house . 
Lord Melbury , however , quitted her not , and would talk to no one else ; and finding that his seat was destined to be next to that of Mrs. Maple , who called him to her side , he said , that he never supped , and would therefore wait upon the ladies ; and , drawing a chair behind that of Ellis , he devoted himself to conversing with her , upon her part , upon the whole play , and upon dramatic works , French and English , in general , with the eagerness with which such subjects warm the imagination of youth , and with a pleasure which made him monopolize her attention . 
Harleigh listened to every word to which Ellis listened , or to which she answered ; and scarcely knew whether most to admire her good sense , her intelligent quickness , her elegant language , or the meaning eyes , and varied smiles which spoke before she spoke , and shewed her entire conception of all to which she attended . 
No one now could address her ; she was completely engrossed by the young nobleman , who allowed her not time to turn from him a moment . 
Such honours shewn to a pauper , a stroller , a vagabond ; and all in the present instance , from her own unfortunate contrivance , Mrs. Maple considered as a personal disgrace ; a sensation which was threefold encreased when the party broke up , and Lady Aurora , taking the chair of her brother , rallied him upon the envy which his situation had excited ; while , in the most engaging manner , she hoped , during her sojourn at Brighthelm-stone , to have frequently the good fortune of taking her revenge . 
`` Pardon me , dear Madam , '' said Lady Aurora ; `` I am quite ashamed ; but I hope , while I am so happy as to be with you , that you will yourself conceive a fellow feeling , how difficult it is to tear one 's self away from Miss Ellis . '' 
cried Ellis , her eyes glistening : `` and Oh ! 
Startled , and astonished , she hoped that Miss Ellis was not again indisposed ? 
Smilingly , yet in a voice that denoted extreme agitation , `` Lady Aurora alone , '' she answered , `` can be surprised that so much goodness -- so unlooked for -- so unexpected -- should be touching ! '' 
`` O Mrs. Maple , '' cried Lady Aurora , in taking leave of that lady , `` what a sweet creature is this Miss Ellis ! '' 
All then crowded round her , who had hither-to abstained ; but she drooped ; tears flowed fast down her cheeks ; she courtsied the acknowledgements which she could not pronounce to her complimenters and enquirers , and mounted to her chamber . 
`` But Miss Ellis ? '' 
said Lady Aurora , looking around her , disappointed ; `` I hope she is not more indisposed ? '' 
She is quite well again , '' answered Mrs. Maple , in haste to destroy a disposition to pity , which she thought conferred undue honour upon the stranger . 
`` But shall we not have the pleasure to see her ? '' 
`` She ... generally . 
... breakfasts in her own room , '' answered Mrs. Maple , with much hesitation . 
`` May I , then , '' said Lady Aurora , going to the bell , `` beg that somebody will let her know how happy I should be to enquire after her health ? '' 
`` Your Ladyship is too good , `` cried Mrs. Maple , in great confusion , and preventing her from ringing ; but Miss Ellis -- I do n't know why -- is so fond of keeping her chamber , that there is no getting her out of it ... some how . 
-- '' `` Perhaps , then , she will permit me to go up stairs to her ? '' 
... I believe she has walked out . '' 
Lady Aurora now applied to Selina , who was scampering away upon a commission of search ; when Mrs. Maple , following her , privately insisted that she should bring back intelligence that Miss Ellis was taken suddenly ill . 
He had ridden over , he said , to enquire after the health of Miss Ellis , in the name of his sister , who would do herself the pleasure to call upon her , as soon as she should be sufficiently recovered to receive a visit . 
A glow of a far different sort flushed that of Mrs. Maple , who , after various ineffectual evasions , was constrained to say that she hoped Miss Ellis would be well enough to appear on the morrow . 
And , to complete her provocation , she was reduced , when Lord Melbury was gone , to propose , herself , that Selina should lend the girl a gown , and what else she might require , for being seen , once again , without involving them all in shame . 
Ellis , informed by Selina of these particulars , shed a torrent of grateful tears at the interest which she had thus unexpectedly excited ; then , reviving into a vivacity which seemed to renew all the pleasure that she had experienced on the night of the play , she diligently employed herself in appropriating the attire which Selina supplied for the occasion . 
Miss Ellis was enquired for without delay , and as Mrs. Maple would suffer no one to view her chamber , she was summoned into the drawing-room . 
Lady Aurora hastened to meet her , uttering such kind expressions of concern for her indisposition , that Ellis , with charmed sensibility , involuntarily advanced to embrace her ; but rapidly , and with timid shame , drew back , her eyes cast down , and her feelings repressed . 
Lady Aurora , perceiving the design , and its check , instantly held out her hand , and smilingly saying , `` Would you cheat me of this kindness ? '' 
led her to a seat next to her own upon a sofa . 
Harleigh could not see her thus benignly treated , or rather , as he conceived , thus restored to the treatment to which she had been accustomed , and which he believed her to merit , without feeling tears moisten his own . 
With marked civility , though not with the youthful enthusiasm of Lady Aurora , Mrs. Howel , also , made her compliments to Miss Ellis . 
The ladies of this house , having first seen this charming Incognita in tattered garments , forlorn , desolate , and distressed ; governed by the prepossession thus excited of her inferiority , even , to this moment , either neglect or treat her harshly ; not moved by the varied excellencies that should create gentler ideas , nor open to the interesting attractions that might give them more pleasure than they could bestow ! 
While these visitors , hearing that she is a young lady of family , and meeting her upon terms of equality , find , at once , that she is endowed with talents and accomplishments for the highest admiration , and with a sweetness of manners , and powers of conversation , irresistibly fascinating . 
The visit lasted almost the whole morning , during which he observed , with extreme satisfaction , not only that the dejection of Ellis wore away , but that a delight in the intercourse seemed reciprocating between herself and her young friends , that gave new beauty to her countenance , and new spirit to her existence . 
When the visitors rose to be gone , `` I can not tell you , Miss Ellis , '' said Lady Aurora , `` how happy I shall be to cultivate your acquaintance . 
`` Miss Ellis , I hope , '' said Mrs. Howel , in taking leave , `` will permit me , also , to have some share of her society , when I have the honour to receive her at Brighthelmstone . '' 
Ellis , touched , enchanted , could attempt no reply beyond a courtesy , and stole , with a full heart , and eyes overflowing , to her chamber , the instant that they left the house . 
Mrs. Maple was now in a dilemma which she would have deemed terrible beyond all comparison , but from what she experienced the following minute , when the butler put upon the table a handful of cards , left by the groom of Mrs. Howel , amongst which Mrs. Maple perceived the name of Miss Ellis , mingled with her own , and that of the Miss Joddrels , in an invitation to a small dancing-party on the ensuing Thursday . 
she cried : `` If I do n't get rid of this wretch , she will bring me into universal disgrace ! 
she shall not stay another day in my house . '' 
`` Has she , Madam , for a single moment , '' said Harleigh , with quickness , `` given you cause to repent your kind assistance , or reason to harbour any suspicion that you have not bestowed it worthily ? '' 
Ellis was struck with the deepest dismay , to be robbed thus of all refuge , at the very moment when she flattered herself that new friends , perhaps a new asylum , were opening to her . 
Whither could she now wander ? 
and how hope that others , to whom she was still less known , would escape the blasting contagion , and believe that distress might be guiltless though mysterious ? 
A few shillings were all that she possessed ; and she saw no prospect of any recruit . 
Ellis respectfully held open the door , but she did not advance : thefury , however , of her aspect was abated , and Ellis , in a voice condolingly soft , asked whether she might hope that Miss Joddrel would , once more , condescend to sit with her before her departure . 
cried Elinor , raising her eyes with a glance of fire . 
Ellis laughed at her raillery , yet declined her wardrobe , saying that she had resolved upon frankly stating to Lady Aurora , all that she was able to make known of her situation . 
The difficulties , nevertheless , of Mrs. Maple did not end here ; the next morning she received a note from Mrs. Howel , with intelligence that Lady Aurora Granville was prevented from making her intended excursion , by a very violent cold ; and to entreat that Mrs. Maple would use her interest with Miss Ellis , to soften Her Ladyship 's disappointment , by spending the day at Howel Place ; for which purpose Mrs. Howel begged leave to send her carriage , at an early hour , to Lewes . 
She would have sent word that Ellis was ill , but she foresaw an endless embarrassment from inquiring visits ; and , after the most fretful , but fruitless lamentations , passionately declared that she would have nothing more to do with the business , and retired to her room ; telling Elinor that she might answer Mrs. Howel as she pleased , only charging her to take upon herself all responsibility of consequences . 
Elinor , enchanted , fixed upon two o'clock for the arrival of the carriage ; and Ellis , who heard the tidings with even exquisite joy , spent the intermediate time in preparations , for which she no longer declined the assisting offers of Elinor , who , wild with renovated spirits , exhorted her , now in raillery , now in earnest , but always with agitated vehemence , to make no scruple of going off with Lord Melbury to Gretna Green . 
When the chaise arrived , Mrs. Maple restless and curious , suddenly descended ; but was filled with double envy and malevolence , at sight of the look of pleasure which Ellis wore ; but which gave to Harleigh a satisfaction that counterbalanced his regret at her quitting the house . 
Ellis seemed tempted to leave the room without condescending to make any reply ; but she checked herself , and desired to understand more clearly what Mrs. Maple demanded . 
Ellis , without hesitation , consented ; and Harleigh handed her to the chaise , Mrs. Maple herself not knowing how to object to that civility , as the servants of Mrs. Howel were waiting to attend their lady 's guest . 
The presage of Harleigh proved as just as it was pleasant : the heart of Ellis bounded with delight as she drove off from the house ; and the hope of transferring to Lady Aurora the obligation for succour which she was now compelled to owe to Mrs. Maple , seemed almost lifting her from earth to heaven . 
Lady Aurora welcomed her with an air of so much goodness , and with looks so soft , so pleased , so partial , that Ellis , in taking her held-out hand , overpowered by so sudden a transition from indignity to kindness , and agitated by the apprehensions that were attached to the hopes which it inspired , burst into tears , and , in defiance of her utmost struggles for serenity , wept even with violence . 
Lady Aurora , shocked and alarmed , asked for her salts ; and Lord Melbury flew for a glass of water ; but Ellis , declining both , and reviving without either , wiped , though she could not dry her eyes , and smiled , while they still glistened , with such grateful sensibility , yet beaming happiness , that both the brother and the sister soon saw , that , greatly as she was affected , nothing was wanting to her restoration . 
At dinner they joined Mrs. Howel , who was charmed to see her young guests thus delighted , and could not refuse her consent to a petition of Lady Aurora , that she would invite Miss Ellis to assist her again , the next day , to nurse her cold with the same prudence . 
After some deliberation , Mrs. Howel , at Lady Aurora 's earnest desire , sent over a groom with a note to Mrs. Maple , informing her of the circumstance , and begging that she would not expect Miss Ellis till the following evening . 
She wrote a few words to Elinor , entreating her kind assistance , in sending a packet of some things necessary for this new plan ; and Elinor took care to provide her with materials for remaining a month , rather than a day . 
A chamber was now prepared for Ellis , in which nothing was omitted that could afford either comfort or elegance ; yet , from the fulness of her mind , she could not , even for a moment , close her eyes , when she retired . 
Some drawback , however , to her happiness was experienced the next morning , when she found Mrs. Howel fearful that the cold of Lady Aurora menaced terminating in a violent cough . 
Lady Aurora , with a grace that accompanied all her actions , unhesitatingly complied ; but enquired whether it would not be possible to persuade Miss Ellis to remain with them during this confinement ? 
Ellis now enjoyed a happiness , before which all her difficulties and disappointments seemed to sink forgotten , or but to be remembered as evils overpayed ; so forcible was the effect upon her mind , of the contrast of her immediate situation with that so recently quitted . 
Lady Aurora had a piano forte in her room ; and Mrs. Howel said , that if Miss Ellis could play Her Ladyship an air or two , it might help to amuse , yet keep her silent . 
Nor ended here either their surprise or their satisfaction ; they soon learnt that she played also upon the harp ; Lord Melbury instantly went forth in search of one ; and it was then , as this was the instrument which she had most particularly studied , that Ellis completed her conquest of their admiration ; for with the harp she was prevailed upon to sing ; and the sweetness of her voice , the delicacy of its tones , her taste and expression , in which her soul seemed to harmonize with her accents , had an effect so delightful upon her auditors , that Mrs. Howel could scarcely find phrases for the compliments which she thought merited ; Lord Melbury burst into the most rapturous applause ; and Lady Aurora was enchanted , was fascinated : she caught the sweet sounds with almost extatic attention , hung on them with the most melting tenderness , entreated to hear the same air again and again , and felt a gratitude for the delight which she received , that was hardly inferior to that which her approbation bestowed . 
Smoothly thus glided the hours , till nearly a fortnight elapsed , Lady Aurora , though recovered , saying , that she preferred this gentle social life , to the gayer or more splendid scenes offered to her abroad : yet neither with gaiety nor splendour had she quarrelled ; it was Ellis whom she could not bear to quit ; Ellis , whose attractions and sweetness charmed her heart , and whose secret disturbance occupied all her thoughts . 
Severely , however , Mrs. Howel watched and investigated every look , every speech , every turn of the head of Ellis , with regard to this young nobleman ; well aware that , as he was younger than herself , though her beauty was in its prime , his safety might depend , more rationally , upon her own views , or her own honour , than upon his prudence or indifference : but all that she observed tended to raise Ellis yet more highly in her esteem . 
It was evident that she wished to be thought well of by Lord Melbury ; but it appeared to be equally evident that she honourably deserved his good opinion . 
Her desire to give him pleasure was unmixt with any species of coquetry : it was as wide from the dangerous toil of tender languor , as from the fascinating snares of alluring playfulness . 
The whole of her demeanour had a decorum , and of her conduct a correctness , as striking to the taste of Mrs. Howel , as her conversation , her accomplishments , and her sentiments were to that of the youthful brother and sister . 
Miss Ellis , therefore , having been brought back to her native land , by one so nice in these matters , must certainly be a young lady of good family ; though there seemed reason to apprehend , that she was an orphan , and that she possessed little or no portion , by her never naming her friends nor her situation , notwithstanding they were subjects to which Mrs. Howel often tried to lead . 
The whole Lewes party felt the most eager curiosity to see Ellis in her new dwelling ; but not trifling was the effort required by Mrs. Maple to preserve any self-command , when she witnessed the high style in which that young person was treated throughout the house . 
Mrs. Maple , almost the whole dinner-time , had the mortification to hear , echoing from the sister to the brother , and re-echoed from Mrs. Howel , the praises of Miss Ellis ; how delightfully the retirement of Lady Aurora had passed in her society ; the sweetness of her disposition , the variety of her powers , and her amiable activity in seeking to make them useful . 
If Ellis offered to serve her , or enquired after her health , she darted at her an eye so piercing , that Ellis , shrinking and alarmed , determined to address her no more ; though again , when any opportunity presented itself , for shewing some attention , the resolution was involuntarily set aside ; but always with equal ill success , every attempt to soften , exciting looks the most terrific . 
With all her accomplishments , all her elegance , was she , at last , but a dependant ? 
Might she be smiled or frowned upon at will ? 
And had she herself admitted into her house , upon equal terms , a person of such a description ? 
It was now strange that she should have been told nothing of the family and condition of Miss Ellis ; there must be some reason for silence ; and the reason could not be a good one . 
Mrs. Howel now examined the behaviour of Mrs. Maple herself to Ellis ; and this scrutiny soon shewed her its entire constraint ; the distance which she observed when not forced to notice her ; the unwilling civility , where any attention was indispensable . 
Something must certainly be wrong ; and she determined , in the course of the evening , to find an opportunity for minutely , nay rigorously , questioning Mrs. Maple . 
Ellis , thus relieved from making an abrupt and unseasonable avowal , yet sure that her letter was in honourable custody , with difficulty refrained from thanking him . 
Lord Melbury and Mrs. Howel thought there was something odd and unintelligible in the business , but forbore any enquiry ; Lady Aurora , observing distress in her amiable Miss Ellis , felt it herself ; but revived with her revival ; and the rest of the company , though better informed , were compulsatorily silenced by the frowns of Mrs. Maple . 
She was not mistaken : he had seated himself to write in an ante-room , which she must necessarily cross if she mounted to her chamber . 
He softly arose , put the letter into her hand , bowed , and returned to his chair without speaking . 
She felt his delicacy as strongly as his kindness , but , breathless with eagerness , observed the silence of which he set the example , and , thanking him only by her looks , flew up stairs . 
She was long absent , and , when she descended , it was with steps so slow , and with an air so altered , that Harleigh , who was still writing in the room through which she had to pass , saw instantly that her letter had brought disappointment and sorrow . 
He had not , now , the same self-command as while he had hoped and thought that she was prosperous . 
He approached her , and , with a face of deep concern , enquired if there were any thing , of any sort , in which he could have the happiness to be of use to her ? 
He stopt ; but she felt his right to a curiosity which he did not avow , and immediately answered : `` My letter brings me no consolation ! 
-- How I am to exist till I dare make some claim , I can not yet devise : but , indeed , had it not been under this kind , protecting roof , that I have received such a letter -- I think I must have sunk from my own dismay : -- but Lady Aurora -- '' Her voice failed , and she stopt . 
-- '' `` I know not how , '' she cried , `` to leave you under so false an impression of those to whom I belong . 
cried Ellis , her eyes brightening with sudden hope . 
She blushed , deeply , in recollecting herself ; but , seized with a sudden dread of Elinor , drew back from her inadvertant acceptance ; and , though warmly thanking him , declined his services ; adding that , by waiting at Brighthelmstone , she must , ultimately , meet her friend , since all her letters and directions were for that spot . 
Harleigh was palpably disappointed ; and Ellis , hurt herself , opened her letter , to lessen , she told him , his wonder , perhaps censure , of her secresy , by reading to him its injunction . 
`` That family , '' she added , `` I flatter myself I have found here ! 
She then proceeded , without waiting to receive his thanks for this communication ; which he seemed hardly to know how to offer , from the fulness of his thoughts , his varying conjectures , his conviction that her friends , like herself , were educated , feeling , and elegant ; and his increased wonder at the whole of her position . 
Somewhat recovered by this conversation , Ellis , now , was able to command an air of tolerable composure , for reentering the drawing-room , where she resolved to seek Elinor at once , and endeavour to deprecate her displeasure , by openly repeating to her all that she had entrusted to Mr. Harleigh . 
As she approached the door , every voice seemed employed in eager talk ; and , as she opened it , she obsvered earnest separate parties formed round the room ; but the moment that she appeared , every one broke off abruptly from what he or she was saying , and a completely dead silence ensued . 
Surprized by so sudden a pause , she seated herself on the first chair that was vacant , while she looked around her , to see whom she could most readily join . 
Elinor stood sullenly alone , leaning against the chimney-piece , with her eyes fastened upon the door , as if watching for its opening : but not all the previous resolution of Ellis , could inspire courage sufficient to address her , after viewing the increased sternness of her countenance . 
Her first impulse was to fly to Lady Aurora ; but she felt discouraged , and even awed , by the strangeness of the general taciturnity , occasioned by her appearance . 
Ellis then heard , that the moment that she had left the room , Mrs. Howel , almost categorically , though with many formal apologies , demanded some information of Mrs. Maple , what account should be given to Lord Denmeath , of the family and condition in life , of the young lady introduced , by Mrs. Maple , into the society of Lady Aurora Granville , as Her Ladyship proposed intimately keeping up the acquaintance . 
Ellis , who , with pale cheeks , but without comment , had listened to this recital , now faintly enquired what had passed after she had retired . 
What a blight to her hopes , what difficulties for her conduct , what agitation for her spirits ! 
In about half an hour , Mrs. Howel 's maid came to enquire whether Miss Ellis would have any thing brought up stairs for supper ; Mrs. Howel having broken up the usual evening party , in order to induce Lady Aurora , who was extremely fatigued , to go to rest . 
Not to rest went Ellis , after such a message , though to that bed which had brought to her , of late , the repose of peace and contentment , and the alertness of hope and pleasure . 
A thousand schemes crossed her imagination , for averting the desertion which she saw preparing , and which her augmenting attachment to Lady Aurora , made her consider as a misfortune that would rob her of every consolation . 
She stood motionless , her eyes fixed , and her air seeming to announce her almost incredulous of what she heard . 
`` She now steadily went on , opened the door , and left the room , though Ellis , mournfully following her , called out : Ah , Madam ! 
Mrs. Howel was not of a nature to relent in what she felt , or to retract from what she said : the distress , therefore , of Ellis , produced not the smallest effect upon her ; and , with her head stiffly erect , and her countenance as unmoved as her heart , she descended the stairs , and issued , aloud , her commands that the horses should immediately be put to the chaise . 
Ellis shut herself into her room , almost overpowered by the shock of this attack , so utterly unexpected , from a lady in whose character the leading feature seemed politeness , and who always appeared to hold that quality to be pre-eminent to all others . 
But the experience of Ellis had not yet taught her , how distinct is the politeness of manner , formed by the habits of high life , to that which springs spontaneously from benevolence of mind . 
The gloomy sadness of Ellis was soon interrupted , by enquiries that reached her from the hall , whether the trunks of Lady Aurora were ready . 
when may I see her again ? 
-- To the hall , to wait in the hall , she longed to go herself , to catch a last view , and to snatch , if possible , a kind parting word ; but the tremendous Mrs. Howel ! 
Fixt here , she was inattentive to the opening of her own room-door , concluding that the house-maid came to arrange her fire , till a soft voice gently articulated : `` Miss Ellis ! '' 
Ellis flew to seize it , with joy inexpressible , indescribable , and would have pressed it to her lips ; but Lady Aurora , flinging both her arms round the neck of her new friend , fell upon her bosom , and wept , saying , `` You are not , then , angry , though I , too , must have seemed to behave to you so cruelly ? '' 
`` You can still , then , love me , my Miss Ellis ? '' 
She put a letter into her hand , which Ellis fondly kissed , and lodged near her heart . 
`` I must stay , '' she said , `` no longer ! 
Adieu , dear Miss Ellis ! 
cried Ellis , clinging to her , `` shall I see you , then , no more ? 
would again have hurried her away ; but Ellis , still holding by her , cried , `` One moment ! 
was all that Ellis could utter , while tears rolled fast down her cheeks ; and she tenderly , yet fervently , kissed the hand of the resisting Lady Aurora , who , extremely affected , leant upon her bosom , till she was startled by again hearing her name from without . 
`` Do not talk thus , my dear , dear Miss Ellis ! 
Ellis could hardly breathe : her soul seemed bursting with emotions , which , though the most delicious , were nearly too mighty for her frame . 
Her familiar intrusion , without tapping at the door , quickly brought to the recollection of Ellis the authority which had been vested in her hands . 
This immediately restored her spirit ; and as the housekeeper , seating herself , was beginning , very unceremoniously , to explain the motives of her visit , Ellis , without looking at her , calmly said , `` I shall go down stairs now to breakfast ; but if you have time to be so good as to make up my packages , you will find them in those drawers . '' 
She then descended to the parlour , leaving the housekeeper stupified with amazement . 
Following , therefore , Ellis to the breakfast-room , and seating herself upon a sofa , she began a discourse with the freedom of addressing a disgraced dependent ; saying , `` Mrs. Maple will be in a fine taking , Miss , to have you upon her hands , again , so all of the sudden . '' 
Ellis turned from her with disdain , and would reply to nothing more ; but her pertinacious stay still kept the bosom letter unopened . 
Grievously Ellis felt tormented with the prospect of what her reception might be from Mrs. Maple , after such a blight . 
cried he , `` flying to her , '' and taking and kissing both her hands , and drawing , rather than leading , her back to the parlour , `` none ! 
Lord Melbury had never addressed her before in any tone of gallantry ; had never kissed , never touched her hand ; yet now , he would scarcely suffer her to withdraw it from his ardent grasp . 
`` I was fearful , '' said Ellis , anxious to clear up her eager reception , `` that something might have happened to Lady Aurora ; I am extremely happy to hear that all is safe . '' 
Again he took both her hands , and led her to the seat which she had just quitted at the table . 
She was extremely embarrassed . 
She felt reluctant to refuse a request so natural ; yet she was sure that Mrs. Howel would conclude that they met by appointment ; and she saw in the face of the housekeeper the utmost provocation at the young Lord 's behaviour : yet neither of these circumstances gave her equal disturbance , with observing a change , indefinable yet striking , in himself . 
Ellis said that she would see whether her trunk were ready . 
Still more freely than before , he now rather seized than took her hand ; and calling her his dear charming Ellis , pressed it to his lips , and to his breast , with rapturous fondness . 
Ellis , struck , now , with terrour , had not sufficient force to withdraw her hand ; but when she said , with great emotion , `` Pray , pray , My Lord ! 
It was only for a moment : snatching , it then , again , as she was rising to depart , he suddenly slipt upon one of her fingers a superb diamond ring , which he took off from one of his own . 
`` It is very beautiful , My Lord ; '' said she , deeply blushing ; yet looking at it as if she supposed he meant merely to call for her admiration , and returning it to him immediately . 
He tried to put the ring again on her finger ; but , forcibly breaking from him , she would have left the room : he intercepted her passage to the door . 
She turned round to ring the bell : he placed himself again in her way , with a flushed air of sportiveness , yet of determined opposition . 
Confounded , speechless , she went to one of the windows , and standing with her back to it , looked at him with an undisguised amazement , that she hoped would lead him to some explanation of his behaviour , that might spare her any serious remonstrance upon its unwelcome singularity . 
`` No , my lord , '' answered she , gravely , yet forcing a smile , which she hoped would prove , at once , a hint , and an inducement to him to end the scene as an idle and ill-judged frolic ; `` No ; I have only been afraid that your lordship was running away from yourself ! '' 
Ellis now turned pale and cold : horrour thrilled through her veins , and almost made her heart cease to beat . 
Lord Melbury saw the change , and , hastily drawing towards her a chair , besought her to be seated . 
She was unable to refuse , for she had not strength to stand ; but , when again he would have taken her hand , she turned from him , with an air so severe of soul-felt repugnance , that , starting with surprise and alarm , he forbore the attempt . 
He stood before her utterly silent , and with a complexion frequently varying , till she recovered ; when , again raising her eyes , with an expression of mingled affliction and reproach , `` And is it , then , '' she cried , `` from a brother of the pure , the exemplary Lady Aurora Granville , that I am destined to receive the most heart-rending insult of my life ? '' 
She passed him , and was quitting the room . 
She made no answer but by hastening her footsteps , and wearing an aspect of the greatest severity ; but , when her hand touched the lock , `` I swear to you , '' he cried , `` Miss Ellis , if you will not stay -- I will follow you ! '' 
Her eyes now shot forth a glance the most indignant , and she resolutely opened the door . 
He spread out his arms to impede her passage . 
Offended by his violence , and alarmed by this detention , she resentfully said , `` If you compel me , my lord , to summon the servants -- '' when , upon looking at him again , she saw that his whole face was convulsed by the excess of his emotion . 
She stopt . 
She neither consented nor offered any opposition . 
He closed the door , but she kept her place . 
She determined to have recourse to the bell , and , with the averted eyes of disdain , resolutely moved towards the chimney . 
He saw her design , and cast himself upon his knees , calling out , in extreme agitation , `` Miss Ellis ! 
Miss Ellis ! 
Greatly shocked , she desisted from her purpose . 
Her wrath subsided at this sight , but the most conflicting emotions rent her heart . 
And yet believe me , Miss Ellis ! 
-- Believe me , Miss Ellis ! 
-- believe me , good Miss Ellis ! 
He rose , but attempted not to approach her . 
His extreme youth , his visible inexperience , and her suspicious situation ; joined to his quick repentance , and simple , but emphatic declaration , that he had no hardness of heart , began not only to offer some palliation for his conduct , but to soften her resentment into pity . 
He no sooner perceived the touching melancholy which insensibly took place , in her countenance , of disgust and indignation , than , forcibly affected , he struck his forehead , exclaiming , `` Oh , my poor Aurora ! 
This was an apostrophe to come home quick to the bosom of Ellis : she burst into tears ; and would instantly have held out to him her hand , as an offering of peace and forgiveness , had not her fear of the impetuosity of his feelings checked the impulse . 
She only , therefore , said , `` Ah , my lord , how is it that with a sister so pure , so perfect , and whose virtues you so warmly appreciate , you should find it so difficult to believe that other females may be exempt , at least , from depravity ? 
cried he , with sudden rapture ; `` good -- excellent Miss Ellis ! 
Ellis irresistibly wept , but , by a motion of her hand , forbad his approach . 
I have hitherto , Miss Ellis , been but a boy , and therefore so easily led wrong . 
But your so visible purity , Miss Ellis , had kept them from any disrespect , believe me ! 
interrupted Ellis , fresh tears , but of pleasure , not sorrow , gushing into her eyes ; `` what words are these ! 
`` Oh , incomparable -- Oh , best Miss Ellis ! '' 
cried Lord Melbury , in a transport of joy , and passionately advancing ; but retreating nearly at the same instant , as if fearful of alarming her ; and almost fastening himself against the opposite wainscoat ; `` how excessive is your goodness ! '' 
A sigh from Ellis checked his rapture ; and she entreated him to explain what he meant by his allusion to `` others . '' 
Yet it was not without the utmost difficulty that she could prevail upon him to be explicit . 
Finally , however , she gathered , that Ireton , after the scene produced by the letter for L.S. , had given vent to the most sneering calumnies , chiefly pointed at Harleigh , to excite the experiment of which he had himself so shamefully , yet foolishly , been the instrument . 
`` All public appeals , '' cried she , `` are injurious to female fame . 
His self-discontent could suggest no alleviation so satisfactory , as that of calling Mr. Ireton to account for defamation ; an action which he thought would afford the most brilliant amends that could be offered to Miss Ellis , and the best proof that could blazon his own manliness . 
But when she solemnly assured him , that his compliance with her solicitation was the only peace-offering she could accept , for sinking into oblivion the whole morning 's transaction , he forbore any further contestation . 
Lord Melbury timidly offered Ellis his hand , which she gracefully accepted ; but neither of them spoke as he led her to the carriage . 
From all the various sufferings on Ellis , through the scenes of this morning , the predominant remaining emotion , was that of pity for her penitent young offender ; whom she saw so sorely wounded by a sense of his own misconduct , that he appeared to be almost impenetrable to comfort . 
But all her attention was soon called to the letter of Lady Aurora . 
`` To Miss Ellis . '' 
`` I can not express the grief with which I have learnt the difficulties that involve my dear Miss Ellis . 
Will she kindly mitigate it , by allowing me , from time to time , the consolation of offering her my sympathy ? 
May I flatter myself that she has sufficient regard for me , to let the enclosed trifle lead the way to some little arrangement during her embarrassment ? 
blazonere I in similar distress , I would she solsitate to place in her a similar plians Generously , then , sweet Miss pes , confide in my tender regard . 
Most welcome to the distress of Ellis was this kindness and this succour ; and greatly she felt revived , that , severe as had been her late conflicts , they thus terminated in casting her , for all pecuniary perplexities , upon the delicate and amiable Lady Aurora . 
After being detained at the gate a considerable time , a servant came to acquaint Miss Ellis , that the ladies were particularly engaged , but begged that she would walk up stairs to her room . 
There , again established , she had soon a visit from Selina , who impatiently demanded , how she had parted from Lady Aurora ; and , when satisfied that it had been with the extremest kindness , she warmly embraced her , before she related , that Aunt Maple had , at first , declared , that she would never , again , let so unknown a pauper into her house ; but , when she had read the note of Mrs. Howel , she changed her tone . 
Ellis could by no means repine at a separation , that saved her from the pride and malevolence of Mrs. Maple and of Ireton , and from the distressing incongruities of Elinor . 
Ellis was determined not to induce her to do either : nor could she endure to give a mercenary character to a grateful affection , which languished to shew that its increase , as well as its origin , sprang from disinterested motives . 
All her thoughts , therefore , turned upon making the present offering suffice . 
Yet she was aware how short a time she could exist upon twenty pounds ; and while a residence at Mrs. Maple 's would be now more than ever unpleasant , recent circumstances had rendered it , more than ever , also , unlikely . 
Lord Melbury was as red as fire , and said that would not be treating Miss Ellis with the respect which he was sure was her due ; and he could not be so impertinent as to desire to see her , upon such terms . 
He would detain her , he said , but a few minutes ; yet could not leave the country , without informing her of two visits , which he had made the day before : both of which had ended precisely with the amity that she had wished . 
Lord Melbury and Ellis would have detained , but could not follow her , as it was her bed-chamber . 
-- Do n't look pale , Miss Ellis : I repeated to Mr. Harleigh the promise you had exacted from me , and he confessed himself to be perfectly of your opinion , that all angry defence , or public resentment , must necessarily , in such a case , be injurious . 
Ellis expressed her sincere and warm gratitude ; and Lord Melbury , with an air of penetrated respect , took his leave ; evidently much solaced , by the consciousness of serving one whom he had injured . 
Ellis had every reason to be gratified by this attention , which set her mind wholly at rest upon the tenour of Lord Melbury 's regard : while Elinor was so much delighted , to find the acquaintance advance so rapidly to confidence , that she embraced Ellis , wished her joy , mocked all replies of a disclaiming nature , and , accompanying her back to her room , made her a long , social , lively , and entertaining visit ; hearing and talking over her project of becoming a governess , but laughing at it , as a ridiculous idea , for the decided wife elect of Earl Melbury . 
She was succeeded by Selina , who exultingly came to acquaint Ellis , that Mr. Ireton had just made a formal renunciation of all ill opinion of her ; and had told Mrs. Maple , that he had indubitable proofs that she was a person of the very strictest character . 
`` So now , '' cried she , `` Lady Aurora and I may vow our friendship to you for life . '' 
She seated herself , made Ellis sit exactly opposite to her , and went on : `` There are two things which I want to say to you ; or , rather , to demand of you . 
Alarmed by her ghastly look , and frightened at the abruptness of questions utterly incomprehensible , Ellis gently entreated to be spared any request with which she could not comply . 
Starting up , but preventing Ellis from rising , by laying a hand upon each of her shoulders , she gazed upon her eyes with a fixed stare , of almost frantic impatience , and said , `` Speak ! 
-- Has Harleigh -- '' she gasped for breath -- `` ever made you any declaration ? '' 
cried she , recovering some composure . 
She then walked up and down the room , involuntarily smiling , and her lips in a motion , that shewed that she was talking to herself . 
Then stopping , and taking Ellis by the hand , and half laughing , `` You will think me , '' she cried , `` crazy ; but I assure you I had never a more exquisite enjoyment of my senses . 
Again , then , walking up and down the chamber , she pursued her new train of ideas , with a glee which manifested that she found them delightful . 
`` My dear Ellis , '' she cried , presently , `` have you ever chanced to hear of such a person as Dennis Harleigh ? '' 
Ellis wished to avoid answering this question , on account of her informant , Selina ; but her embarrassment was answer sufficient . 
With a rapidity scarcely intelligible , and in a manner wholly incoherent , she then went on : `` Ellis , I pretend not to any mystery . 
Nearly out of breath , she stopt a moment ; then , looking earnestly at Ellis , said , `` Do you understand me ? '' 
cried she , impatiently ; `` I despise what is obscure , still more than I hate what is false . 
Again she stopt ; but Ellis , uncertain whether this remark were meant to introduce her confidence , or to censure her own secresy , waited an explanation in silence . 
Elinor was evidently , however , embarrassed , though anxious to persuade herself , as well as Ellis , that she was perfectly at her ease . 
She walked a quick pace up and down the room ; then stopt , seemed pausing , hemmed to clear her voice for speech ; and then walked backwards and forwards before the window , which she frequently opened and shut , without seeming to know that she touched it ; till , at length , seized with sudden indignation against herself , for this failure of courage , she energetically exclaimed , `` How paltry is shame where there can be no disgrace ! 
Yet , even thus buoyed up , thus full fraught with defiance , something within involuntarily , invincibly checked her , and she hastily resumed her walks and her ruminations . 
`` What amazing , unaccountable fools , '' she cried , `` have we all been for these quantities of centuries ! 
She stopt , and the deepest vermillion overspread her face ; her effort was made ; she had boasted of her new doctrine , lest she should seem impressed with confusion from the old one which she violated ; but the struggle being over , the bravado and exultation subsided ; female consciousness and native shame took their place ; and abashed , and unable to meet the eyes of Ellis , she ran out of the room . 
She laughed at herself for having run away , without explaining the meaning of her communication ; and for charging Ellis with a commission , of which she had not made known even the nature . 
She then more clearly stated her situation . 
From the time of her first interview with Albert , her whole mind had recoiled from all thought of union with his brother ; yet the affair was so far advanced , and she saw herself so completely regarded by Albert as a sister , though treated by him with an openness , a frankness , and an affection the most captivating , that she had not courage to proclaim her change of sentiment . 
The conflict of her mind , during this doubting state , threatened to cast her into a consumption . 
She was ordered to the south of France . 
And there , happily arrived , new scenes , -- a new world , rather , opened to her a code of new ideas , that soon , she said , taught her to scoff at idle misery : and might even , from the occupation given to her feelings , by the glorious confusion , and mad wonders around her , have recovered her from the thraldom of an over-ruling propensity , had not Dennis , unable , from professional engagements , to quit his country , been so blind , upon hearing that her health was re-established , as to persuade his brother to cross the Channel , in order to escort the two travellers home . 
From the moment , the fated moment , that Albert arrived to be her guide and her guard , he became so irresistibly the master of her heart , that her destiny was determined . 
Whether good or ill , she knew not yet ; but it was fixed . 
Ill had not occurred to her sanguine expectations , nor doubt , nor fear , till the eventful meeting with Ellis : till then , she had believed her happiness secure , for she had supposed that nothing stood in her way , save a little brotherly punctilio . 
But , since the junction of Ellis , the spontaneous interest which Albert had taken in her fate , and her affairs , had appeared to be so marvellous , that , at every new view of his pity , his respect , or his admiration , she was seized with the most uneasy feelings ; which sometimes worked her up into pangs of excruciating jealousy ; and , at others , seemed to be so ill founded , that , recollecting a thousand instances of his general benevolence , she laughed her own surmises to scorn . 
How the matter still stood , with regard to his heart , she confessed herself unable to form any permanent judgment . 
She expected , she said , a desperate scene , but , at least , it would be a final one . 
She had only , for many months past , been restrained from giving Dennis his dismission , lest Albert should drop all separate acquaintance , from the horrour of seeming treacherously to usurp the place of his brother . 
Nevertheless , she would frankly have ended her disturbance , by an avowal of the truth , had not Albert been the eldest brother , and , consequently , the richest ; and the disgraceful supposition , that she might be influenced to desire the change from mercenary motives , would have had power to yoke her to Dennis , for the rest of her weary existence , had not her mind been so luminously opened to its own resources , and inherent right of choice , by her continental excursion . 
`` The grand effect , '' she continued , `` of beholding so many millions of men , let loose from all ties , divine or human , gave such play to my fancy , such a range to my thoughts , and brought forth such new , unexpected , and untried combinations to my reason , that I frequently felt as if just created , and ushered into the world -- not , perhaps , as wise as another Minerva , but equally formed to view and to judge all around me , without the gradations of infancy , childhood , and youth , that hitherto have prepared for maturity . 
Ellis informs him that she must hold a confabulation with him the next day ; and desires that he will remain at Lewes to be at hand . 
She then went away . 
The distress of Ellis was extreme how to call for his notice , and how to execute her commission when it should be obtained . 
Slowly and unwillingly approaching a little nearer , `` I am afraid , '' she hesitatingly said , `` that I must appear extremely importunate , but -- '' The astonishment with which he turned round , at the sound of her voice , could only be equalled by the pleasure with which he met her eyes ; and only surpassed , by the sudden burst of clashing ideas with which he saw her own instantly drop ; while her voice , also , died away ; her cheeks became the colour of crimson ; and she was evidently and wholly at a loss what to say . 
yet he waited her own explanation . 
Her confusion now became deeper ; any sort of interrogation would have encouraged and aided her ; but his quiet , though attentive forbearance seemed the result of some suspension of opinion . 
Ashamed and grieved , she involuntarily looked away , as she indistinctly pronounced , `` I must appear ... very strange ... but I am constrained . 
... Circumstances of which I am not the mistress , force me to ... desire -- to request -- that to-morrow morning -- or any part of to-morrow ... it might be possible that I could ... or rather that you should be able to ... to hear something that ... that ... '' The total silence with which he listened , shewed so palpably his expectation of some competent reason for so singular an address , that her inability to clear herself , and her chagrin in the idea of forfeiting any part of an esteem which had proved so often her protection , grew almost insupportably painful , and she left her phrase unfinished : yet considered her commission to be fulfilled , and was moving away . 
`` To-morrow , '' he said , `` I meant to have accompanied my brother , whose affairs -- whatever may be his fate -- oblige him to return to town : but if ... if to-morrow -- '' He had now , to impede her retreat , stept softly between her and the staircase , and perceived , in her blushes , the force which she had put upon her modesty ; and read , in the expression of her glistening eyes , that an innate sense of delicacy was still more wounded , by the demand which she had made , even than her habits of life . 
Comforted to find herself treated with unabated consideration , however shocked to have the air of detaining him purposely for her own concerns , she was courtsying her thanks , when she caught a glance of Elinor on the stairs , in whose face , every passion seemed with violence at work . 
The alteration in her countenance made Harleigh look round , and discern Elinor ; yet so pre-occupied was his attention , that he was totally unmindful of her situation , and would have addressed her as usual , had she not abruptly remounted the stairs . 
Harleigh would then have asked some directions , relative to the time and manner of the purposed communication ; but Ellis instantly followed Elinor ; leaving him in a state of wonder , expectation , yet pleasure indescribable ; fully persuaded that she meant to reveal the secret of her name and her history ; and forming conjectures that every moment varied , yet every moment grew more interesting , of her motives for such a confidence . 
she cried , `` this is delectable ! 
The lengthened stay of Albert being thus , she said , ascertained , she should send Dennis about his business , without the smallest ceremony . 
What she undertook , she performed . 
Early in the evening she again visited Ellis , exultingly to make known to her , that Dennis was finally dismissed . 
She had assigned no reason , she said , for her long procrastination , reserving that for his betters , alias Albert ; but she had been so positive and clear in announcing her decision , and assuring him that it proceeded from a most sincere and unalterable dislike , both to his person and mind , that he had shewn spirit enough to be almost respectable , having immediately ordered his horse , taken his leave of Aunt Maple , and set off upon his journey . 
Ellis saw her no more till the next morning , when , entering the chamber , breathless with haste and agitation , `` The moment , '' she cried , `` is come ! 
The astonishment of Harleigh was inexpressible ; and Ellis , who had received no positive directions , felt wholly at a loss what she was to relate , how far she ought to go , and what she ought to require . 
Hastily , therefore , and affrighted at her task , she tapped at the bed-room door , and begged a moment 's audience . 
No ; Ellis answered ; she merely wished for more precise commands what she should say . 
`` Yes ; I am charged by ... by ... by a lady whom I need not name -- to say that ... that your brother -- '' She stopt , ashamed to proceed . 
`` I should be truly glad of your counsel , Sir , in my helpless situation : but I am not at this moment at liberty to speak of myself ; -- Miss Joddrel -- '' Her embarrassment now announced something extraordinary ; but it was avowedly not personal , and Harleigh eagerly besought her to be expeditious . 
`` You must make me so , then , '' cried she , `` by divining what I have to reveal ! '' 
She thought she had now said enough ; but Harleigh , whose faculties were otherwise engaged , waited for further explanation . 
Ellis , already ashamed of the indelicacy of her office , could not press for any reply . 
`` Yet , with all this , '' said Ellis , looking at him expressively , `` with all this ... '' she knew not how to proceed ; but he saw her meaning . 
-- of the respect with which she is ready to yield to your opinions ; of the enthusiasm with which she honours your character ; of the devotion with which she nearly worships you -- '' She stopt short , ashamed ; and as fearful that she had been now too urgent , as before that she had been too cold . 
Harleigh heard her with considerable emotion . 
cried Ellis , holding up her hands in act of supplication , `` you will be heard ! '' 
Ellis knew not whether to retire , at once , to her own room ; or to venture into that of Elinor ; or to require any further answer . 
Ellis feared to behold her ; yet saw , by a glance , that her eyes were sparkling , and that her face was dressed in smiles . 
she cried ; '' 't is the pride of my life to have brought such a one into the history of my existence ! '' 
Ellis officiously got her a chair ; arranged the fire ; examined if the windows were well closed ; and sought any occupation , to postpone the moment of speaking to , or looking at her . 
She was not offended ; she did not appear to be hurried ; she seemed enchanted with her own ideas ; yet she had a strangeness in her manner that Ellis thought extremely alarming . 
`` Well , '' she cried , when she had taken her seat , and saw that Ellis could find no further pretext for employing herself in the little apartment ; `` what garb do you bring me ? 
Ellis begged to know what she meant . 
replied she , gaily ; or ... `` abruptly changing her tone into a deep hoarse whisper , `` a shroud ? '' 
Ellis could not utter a word : every phrase she could suggest seemed to teem with danger ; yet she felt that her silence could not but indicate the truth which it sought to hide ; she hung her head , and sighed in disturbed perplexity . 
Ellis acquiesced , returning to the employment of her needle , for which Mrs. Fenn took especial care that she should never lack materials . 
then , turning with quickness to Ellis : `` Ellis , '' she cried , `` I have withheld from any questions relative to yourself , because I abominate all subterfuge ; but you will not suppose I am contented with my ignorance ? 
She reddened ; passion took possession of every feature , and for a moment nearly choaked her voice : she again walked , with rapid motion , about the room , and then ejaculated , `` Let me be patient ! 
`` Ellis , '' she presently added , `` find Harleigh ; tell him I will wish him a good journey from the summer-house in the garden . 
Ellis required not to have this order repeated : to place her under the care of Harleigh , and intimate to him the excess of her love , with the apprehensions which she now herself conceived of the dangerous state of her mind , was all that could be wished ; and where so essential a service might be rendered , or a mischief be prevented , personal punctilio was out of the question . 
He was not in the hall ; but , from one of the windows , she perceived him walking near the house . 
A painful sensation , upon being obliged , again , to force herself upon his notice , disturbed , though she would not suffer it to check her . 
He was speaking with his groom . 
She stopt at the hall-door , with a view to catch his eye , and succeeded ; but he bowed without approaching her , and continued to discourse with his groom . 
To seem bent upon pursuing him , when he appeared himself to think that he had gone too far , and even to mean to shun her , dyed her cheeks of the deepest vermilion ; though she compelled herself , from a terrour of the danger of delay , to run across the gravel-walk before the house , to address him . 
He saw her advance , with extreme surprise , but by no means with the same air of pleasure , that he had manifested in the morning . 
His look was embarrassed , and he seemed unwilling to meet her eyes . 
Yet he awaited her with a respect that made his groom , unbidden , retire to some distance ; though to await her at all , when he might have met her , struck her , even in this hurried and terrified moment , as offering the strongest confirmation which she had yet received , that it was not a man of pleasure or of gallantry , but of feeling and of truth , into whose way she was thus singularly and frequently cast : and the impression which she had made upon his mind , had never , to her hitherto nearly absorbed faculties , appeared to be so serious or so sincere , as now , when he first evidently struggled to disguise a partiality , which he seemed persuaded that he had , now , first betrayed . 
`` She must certainly , '' he said , `` be obeyed ; though I so little expected such a summons , that I was giving directions for my departure . '' 
The word again did not make the cheeks of Ellis paler ; but she answered , with eagerness , `` Yes , for the same purpose and same person ! 
Indeed , Sir , you know not , you conceive not , the dreadfully alarming state of her nerves , nor the violence of her attachment . 
-- You could scarcely else -- '' she stopt , for he changed colour and looked hurt : she saw he comprehended that she meant to add , you could scarcely else resist her : she finished , therefore , her phrase , by `` scarcely else plan leaving her , till you saw her more composed , and more reconciled to herself , and to the world . '' 
`` You can best judge by seeing her , '' said Ellis : `` her situation is truly deplorable . 
Her faculties are all disordered ; her very intellects , I fear , are shaken ; and there is no misfortune , no horrour , which her desperation , if not softened , does not menace . '' 
Harleigh now seemed awakened to sudden alarm , and deep concern ; and Ellis painfully , with encreasing embarrassment , from encreasing consciousness , added , `` You will do , I am sure , what is possible to snatch her from despair ! '' 
and then returned to the house : satisfied that her meaning was perfectly comprehended , by the excess of consternation into which it obviously cast Harleigh . 
Comforted , at least , for Elinor , whose situation in being known , seemed to lose its greatest danger , Ellis , with less oppression upon her spirits , returned to the dressing-room . 
Ellis gently approached her ; but , finding that she did not raise her head , ventured not even to announce that her orders had been executed . 
At length , her paper being filled , she looked up , and said , `` Well ! 
is he there ? '' 
`` I have delivered to him , Madam , your commands . '' 
`` Then , '' cried she , rising with an exulting air , `` the moment of my triumph is come ! 
Hastily rolling up what she had been writing , and putting it into a desk , `` Ellis ! '' 
she added , `` mark me well ! 
Her first idea was to send for Mrs. Maple ; yet that lady was so completely without influence , that any interference on her part , might rather stimulate than impede what it was meant to oppose . 
Ellis fearfully followed her . 
No one happened to be in the way , and she was already in the garden , when , turning suddenly round , and perceiving Ellis , `` Oh ho ! '' 
she cried , `` you come unbidden ? 
She then precipitately entered the summer-house , in which Harleigh was awaiting her in the keenest anxiety . 
His disturbance was augmented upon observing her extreme paleness , though she tried to meet him with a smile . 
She shut and bolted the door , and seated herself before she spoke . 
Assuming then a mien of austerity , though her voice betrayed internal tremour , `` Harleigh ! '' 
she cried , `` be not alarmed . 
Ellis forced a smile , and , seating herself at some distance , tried to wear the appearance of losing her apprehensions ; while Harleigh , drawing a chair near Elinor , assured her that his whole mind was engaged in attention to what she might disclose . 
Ellis fixed her eyes stedfastly upon the floor . 
Shocked , in despite of her sunk expectations , that words such as these could be heard by Harleigh in silence , she resumed again the haughty air with which she had begun the conference . 
from the first instant that I saw you -- heard you -- knew you -- '' She breathed hard , and spoke with difficulty ; but forced herself on . 
Her features now regained their highest expression of vivacity ; and , rising , and looking at him with a sort of wild rapture , `` Oh Harleigh ! '' 
she continued , `` have I attained , at last , this exquisite moment ? 
The crimson hue now mounted to her forehead , and reddened her neck : her eyes became lustrous ; and she was preparing , with an air of extacy , to open the shagreen case , which she had held folded to her bosom , when Harleigh , seizing her hand , dropt on one knee , and , hardly conscious of what he did , or what he felt , from the terrible impression made by a speech so full of love , despair , and menace , exclaimed , `` Elinor ! 
With a look of softness new to her features , new to her character , and emanating from sensations of delight new to her hopes , Elinor sunk gently upon her chair , yet left him full possession of her hand ; and , for some instants , seemed silent from a luxury of inward enjoyment . 
Suddenly , then , turning to Ellis , whose eyes , during the whole scene , had seemed rivetted to the floor , she expressively added , `` I ask not the object ! '' 
Harleigh breathed hard , yet kept his face in an opposite direction , and endeavoured to look as if he did not understand her meaning . 
Ellis commanded her features to remain unmoved ; but her complexion was not under the same controul : frequent blushes crossed her cheeks , which , though they died away almost as soon as they were born , vanished only to re-appear ; evincing all the consciousness that she struggled to suppress . 
He looked palpably disconcerted ; while Ellis , hastily raising her head , exclaimed , `` Upon me , Madam ? 
Ellis resentfully reddened ; but her cheeks were pale to those of Harleigh . 
From the first moment that you have beheld her , she has seemed the mistress of your destiny , the arbitress of your will . 
Ellis opened the window , and leant out her head ; Harleigh , clapping his hand upon his crimsoned forehead , walked with hasty steps round the little apartment . 
Losing now all self-command , and wringing her hands , in a transport of ungovernable anguish , `` Oh , Harleigh ! 
O , can you believe she will ever love you as Elinor loves ? 
said Ellis , gravely , and returning to her seat : while Harleigh , tortured between resentment and pity , stood still ; without venturing to look up or reply . 
Precipitately she then opened the shagreen case , and was drawing out its contents , when Ellis , darting forward , caught her arm , and screamed , rather than articulated , `` Ellis will never be his ! 
The astonished Harleigh , who , hitherto , had rigorously avoided meeting the eyes of Ellis , now turned towards her , with an expression in which all that was not surprise was resentment ; while Elinor , seeming suddenly suspended , faintly pronounced , `` Ellis -- deluding Ellis ! 
Harleigh now looked utterly confounded ; but Ellis only saw , and seemed only to breathe for Elinor , who recovering , as if by miracle , her complexion , her voice , and the brightness of her eyes , rapturously exclaimed , `` Oh Harleigh ! 
-- And , from a change of emotion , too sudden and too mighty for the shattered state of her nerves , she sunk senseless upon the floor . 
She looked from one to the other , as if searching her destiny ; and then , with quick impatience , though somewhat checked by shame , cried , `` Ellis ! 
Ellis entered into the chamber with Elinor ; who , equally exhausted in body and in mind , flung herself upon her bed , where she remained some time totally mute : her eyes wide open , yet looking at nothing , apparently in a state of stupefaction ; but from which , in a few minutes , suddenly starting , and taking Ellis by the hand , with a commanding air , she abruptly said , `` Ellis , are you fixed to marry Lord Melbury ? '' 
Ellis , unable to conjecture in what frame of mind she might awake , did not dare leave her . 
She sat watchfully by her side , amazed to see , that , with such energy of character , such quickness of parts , such strength of comprehension , she not only gave way to all her impulses like a child , but , like a child , also , when over-fatigued , could suddenly lose her sufferings and her remembrance in a sort of spontaneous slumber . 
She then rushed out of the room , shutting the door after her , and commanding Ellis not to follow : but Ellis , fearing every moment some dreadful catastrophe , softly pursued her , till she saw her enter the servants ' hall ; whence , after giving some orders , in a low voice and hurried manner , to her own footman , she remounted to her chamber ; into which , without opposition , or even notice , Ellis also glided . 
Here , eagerly seizing a pen , with the utmost rapidity , though with many blots , and frequent erazures , she wrote a long letter , which she read and altered repeatedly before she folded ; she then wrote a shorter one ; then rang for her maid , to whom she gave some secret directions , which she finished by commanding that she would find out Mr. Harleigh , and desire that he would go immediately to the summer-house . 
In about a quarter of an hour , which she spent in reading , revising , sealing , and directing her letters , the maid returned ; and , after a long whisper , said , that she had given the message to Mr. Harleigh . 
Turning now to Ellis , with a voice and air of decision , that seemed imperiously to forbid resistance , she put into her hand the long letter which she had just written , and said , `` Take this to him immediately ; and , while he reads it , mark every change of his countenance , so as to be able to deduce , and clearly to understand , the sensations which pass in his mind . '' 
When Ellis expostulated upon the utter impropriety of her following Mr. Harleigh , she sternly said , `` Give the letter , then , to whatever other person you judge most proper to become a third in my confidence ! '' 
She then nearly forced her out of the room . 
Ellis did not dare venture to keep the letter , as she wished , till some opportunity should offer for presenting it quietly , lest some high importance should be annexed to its quick delivery ; yet she felt that it would be cruel and indelicate to make over such a commission to another ; in opposition , therefore , to the extremest personal repugnance , she compelled herself , with fearful and unwilling , yet hasty steps , to proceed again to the summer-house . 
She found Harleigh , with an air at once pensive and alarmed , waiting for Elinor ; but at the unexpected sight of Ellis , and of Ellis alone , every feature brightened ; though his countenance , his manner , his whole frame , evinced increased agitation . 
Anxious to produce her excuse , for an intrusion of which she felt utterly ashamed , she instantly presented him the letter , saying , `` Miss Joddrel would take no denial to my being its bearer . 
Vainly Ellis strove to appear unconscious of the comparison , and the application , which the eyes of Harleigh , yet more pointedly than his words , marked for herself in this speech : her quickly rising blushes divulged all that her stillness , her unmoved features tried to disguise ; and , to get rid of her confusion , she again desired that he would open the letter , and with an urgency which he could not resist . 
He merely stipulated that she would wait to hear his answer ; and then read what follows . 
`` You can not , surely , Sir , imagine -- can not for a moment suppose , that I was guided by such egregious vanity as to believe -- '' She stopt , extremely embarrassed . 
Ellis coloured highly as she answered , `` I beg you , Sir , to consider all that was drawn from you this morning , or all that might be inferred , as perfectly null -- unpronounced and unthought . '' 
So extreme was the emotion with which Harleigh uttered these words , that he perceived not their effect upon Ellis , till , gasping for breath , and nearly fainting , she sunk upon a chair ; when so livid a paleness overspread her face , and so deadly a cold seemed to chill her blood , that , but for a friendly burst of tears , which ensued , her vital powers appeared to be threatened with immediate suspension . 
Harleigh was instantly at her feet ; grieved at her distress , yet charmed with a thousand nameless , but potent sensations , that whispered to every pulse of his frame , that a sensibility so powerful could spring only from too sudden a concussion of pleasure with surprise . 
He had hardly time to breathe forth a protestation , when the sight of his posture brought back the blood to her cheeks , and force to her limbs ; and , hastily rising , with looks of blushing confusion , yet with a sigh that spoke internal anguish , `` I can not attempt , '' she cried , `` Mr. Harleigh , -- I could not , indeed , attempt -- to express my sense of your generous good opinion ! 
She rose to be gone ; but Harleigh stopt her , crying , in a tone of amazement , `` Is it possible , -- can it be possible , that with intellects such as yours , clear , penetrating , admirable , you can conceive eternal misery will be your portion , if you break a forced engagement made with a mad woman ? 
Shaking her head , but averting her eyes , Ellis would neither speak nor be detained ; and Harleigh , who durst not follow her , remained confounded . 
Ellis hastened to the house ; but her weeping eyes , and disordered state of mind , unfitted her for an immediate encounter with Elinor , and she went straight to her own chamber ; where , in severe meditation upon her position , her duties , and her calls for exertion , she `` communed with her own heart . '' 
Although unable , while involved in uncertainties , to arrange any regular plan of general conduct , conscience , that unerring guide , where consulted with sincerity , pointed out to her , that , after what had passed , the first step demanded by honour , was to quit the house , the spot , and the connexions , in which she was liable to keep alive any intercourse with Harleigh . 
What strikes me to be right , she internally cried , I must do ; I may then have some chance for peace , ... however little for happiness ! 
Her troubled spirits thus appeased , she descended to inform Elinor of the result of her commission . 
She had received , indeed , no direct message ; but Harleigh meant to desire a conference , and that desire would quiet , she hoped , and occupy the ideas of Elinor , so as to divert her from any minute investigation into the circumstances by which it had been preceded . 
This assured her that it was from Elinor , and she broke the seal , and read the following lines . 
To be the confident of so extraordinary a flight , seemed danger to her safety , while it was horrour to her mind . 
The two commissions with which , so inconsiderately , she was charged , how could she execute ? 
To seek Harleigh again , she thought utterly wrong : and how deliver any message to Mrs. Maple , without appearing to be an accomplice in the elopement ? 
But Mr. Harleigh , who looked extremely uneasy , requested Selina to see if her sister were not with Miss Ellis . 
Her consciousness that there was no chance of the return of Elinor , made her feel as if culpable in not putting an end to fruitless expectation ; yet how produce a letter of which every word demanded secresy , when all avowal would be useless , since Elinor could not be forced back ? 
Vain , however , was either enquiry or menace ; and Mrs. Maple , when she found that she could not obtain any information , though she had heard , from Mrs. Fenn , that Ellis had passed the morning with her niece , declared that she would no longer keep so dangerous a pauper in the house ; and ordered her to be gone with the first appearance of light . 
In re-passing through the hall , she met Harleigh and Ireton ; the former only bowed to her , impeded by his companion from speaking ; but Ireton , stopping her , said , `` O ! 
I do n't know how the devil it was , but I went on , tumbling from blunder to blunder , till I got into such a bog , that I could neither stand still , nor make my way out : -- '' Ellis , gratified that he would offer any sort of apology , and by no means wishing that he would make it more explicit , readily assured him , that she would think no more upon the subject ; and hurried to her chamber : while Harleigh , who stood aloof , thought he observed as much of dignity as of good humour , in her flying any further explanation . 
But Mrs. Maple , who only meant , by her threat , to intimidate Ellis into a confession of what she knew of the absence , and of the purposes , of Elinor , was so much enraged by her calmness , that she told Mrs. Fenn to follow her , with positive orders , that , unless she would own the truth , she should quit the house immediately , though it were in the dead of the night . 
Violence so inhuman rather inspired than destroyed fortitude in Ellis , who quietly answered , that she would seek an asylum , till day-light , at the neighbouring farmer 's . 
Ireton replied , that he should have mentioned that from the first , but for the objections which then seemed to be in the way of trusting Miss Ellis with such a charge : but when he again named the professor , Mrs. Maple hastily commissioned Selina to acquaint Ellis , that , to-morrow morning they were to begin a regular course of lessons together upon the harp . 
This was all the account that he was able to give ; except that , when he had asked whether his mistress would not be angry at his staying out all night , Miss Joddrel had answered , `` O , Ellis will let her know that she must not expect me back . '' 
A succession of categorical enquiries , forced , at length , an avowal from Ellis , that her commission had been given to her in a letter . 
This was as little what he wished , as what Ellis meant : his desire was to speak with her upon the important subject open between them ; and her 's , was to make an apology for shewing him the letter , and to offer some explanation of a part of its contents . 
He approached her , however , to receive it , and she could not hold it back . 
Revived by this question , she eagerly answered , `` Wherever Mrs. Maple will permit . '' 
Harleigh , who , in the scowl upon Mrs. Maple 's face , read a direction that they should remain where they were , would not wait for her to give it utterance ; but , taking the hand of Ellis , with a precipitation to which she yielded from surprise , though with blushing shame , said , `` In this next room we shall be nearest to give the answer to Mrs. Maple ; '' and led her to the adjoining apartment . 
He did not dare shut the door , but he conducted her to the most distant window ; and , having expressed , by his eyes , far stronger thanks for her trust than he ventured to pronounce with his voice , was beginning to read the letter ; but Ellis , gently stopping him , said , `` Before you look at this , let me beg you , Sir , to believe , that the hard necessity of my strange situation , could alone have induced me to suffer you to see what is so every way unfit for your perusal . 
And -- with respect to what you will find relative to Lord Melbury -- I need not , I trust , mortify myself by disclaiming , or vindicating -- '' He interrupted her with warmth : `` No ! '' 
Ellis thanked him expressively , and begged that he would now read the letter , and favour her with his counsel . 
Ellis gently enquired what she must say to Mrs. Maple . 
-- '' She hesitated : heightened blushes dyed her cheeks ; and she visibly struggled to restrain herself from bursting into tears . 
Suddenly now , as if self-alarmed , checking her sensibility , she gravely cried , `` What would it avail that I should enter into any particulars of my situation , when what has so recently passed , makes all that has preceded immaterial ? 
-- '' She stopt . 
-- The sudden shock which every feature of Harleigh exhibited at these last words , evidently and forcibly affected her ; and the big tears , till now forced back , rolled unrestrained , and almost unconsciously , down her cheeks , as she suffered herself , for a moment , in silence to look at him : she was then hastily retiring ; but Harleigh , surprised and revived by the sight of her emotion , exclaimed , `` O why this fatal sensibility , that captivates while it destroys ? 
He would have taken her hand ; but , drawing back , and even shrinking from his touch , she emphatically cried , `` Remember my engagement ! 
cried he , detaining her , `` or had it your heart 's approbation ? '' 
`` From whatever motive it was uttered , '' answered she , looking away from him , `` it has been pronounced , and must be adhered to religiously ! '' 
She then broke from him , and escaping by a door that led to the hall , sought refuge from any further conflict by hastening to her chamber : not once , till she arrived there , recollecting that her letter was left in his hands ; while the hundred pounds , which she meant to return to him , were still in her own . 
Painfully revolving a scene which had deeply affected her , Ellis , for some time , had remained uninterrupted , when , opening her door to a gentle tap , she was startled by the sight of Harleigh . 
Ellis was so confounded , first by his unexpected sight , and next by his so speedily vanishing , that she lost the opportunity of returning the bank notes . 
For some minutes she gazed pensively down the stair-case ; slowly , then , she shut her door , internally uttering `` all is over : -- he is gone , and will pursue me no more . '' 
Then casting up her eyes , which filled with tears , `` may he , '' she added , `` be happy ! '' 
From this sadness she was roused , by feeling , from the thickness of the packet , that it must contain some additional paper ; eagerly opening it , she found the following letter : `` I have acquainted Mrs. Maple that Miss Joddrel has determined upon living , for a while , alone , and that her manner of announcing that determination , in her letter to you , is so peremptory , as to make you deem it improper to be produced . 
The tone of remonstrance , if not of reproach , which was blended with the serious attachment marked by Harleigh in this letter , deeply touched Ellis ; who was anxiously re-perusing it , when she received information , through Selina , that Mr. Harleigh had set out for London ; whence he meant to proceed to Bath , or , perhaps , to make the western tour . 
The mistress and the scholar were mutually well disposed , and Ellis was endeavouring to give her pupil some idea of a beautiful Sonata , when Miss Arbe , entering the house upon a morning visit , and catching the sound of a harp from the dressing-room of Selina , so touched as Selina , she knew , could not touch it , nimbly ran up stairs . 
Happy , then , to have surprised Miss Ellis at the instrument , she would take no denial to hearing her play . 
The elegance and feeling of her performance , engaged , alike , the ready envy , and the unwilling admiration of Miss Arbe ; who , a self-conceived paragon in all the fine arts , thought superior merit in a diletante a species of personal affront . 
She had already felt as an injury to her theatrical fame , the praise which had reached her ears of Ellis as Lady Townly ; and a new rivalry seemed now to menace her supremacy as chief of lady performers : but when she gathered , through Selina , who knew not even of the existence of such an art as that of holding the tongue , that they were now practising together , her supercilious air was changed into one of rapture , and she was seized with a strong desire to profit , also , from such striking talents . 
But when she found that Ellis was become the principal object with the fastidious Miss Arbe , and heard this wish of intimacy , she was utterly confounded that another person of consequence should countenance , and through her means , this itinerant Incognita . 
Yet to obviate the mischief by an avowal similar to that which she had been forced to make to Mrs. Howel , she thought an insupportable degradation ; and Miss Arbe , with the politest declarations that she should call again the next day , purposely to entitle herself to a visit in return from Miss Ellis , was already gone , before Mrs. Maple had sufficiently recovered from her confusion , to devise any impediment to the proposal . 
All then that occurred to her , was her usually violent , but short measure , of sending Ellis suddenly from the house , and excusing her disappearance , by asserting that her own friends had summoned her away : for Mrs. Maple , like at least half the world , though delicate with respect to her character for truth in public , had palliations always ready for any breach of it , in favour of convenience , in private . 
The sufferings annexed to an asylum thus perpetually embittered by reproach and suspicion , had long made her languish to change it for almost any other ; and her whole thoughts turned once more upon a journey to London , and an interview with Lady Aurora Granville . 
Lord Denmeath , treating this account as an impertinent piece of scandal , requested to have it shewn to his nephew ; but how unspeakable was their consternation when Lord Melbury undauntedly avowed , that the charge was true ; and added , that he was glad of the opportunity thus afforded him , to declare that Miss Ellis was the most virtuous and dignified , as well as the most beautiful and amiable of her sex : she had rejected , he said , a suit which he should always take shame to himself for having made ; and rejected it in a manner so impressive of real purity , that he should for ever hold it his duty to do her honour by every means in his power . 
Mrs. Maple , now , peremptorily sent word to Ellis , that she must immediately make up her mind to leaving the kingdom . 
But Ellis , without hesitation , answered that she had no such design . 
Commands and menaces , though amply employed , were fruitless to obtain any change in her resolution . 
She was , therefore , positively ordered to seek for charity in some other house . 
Ellis , no longer wishing to stay , occupied her mind almost exclusively with the thoughts of her young friends . 
The tender attachment shewn to her by Lady Aurora , and the honourable testimony borne her by Lord Melbury , cheared her spirits , and warmed her heart , with a trust in their regard , that , defying the inflexibility of Mrs. Howel , the authority of Lord Denmeath , and the violence of Mrs. Maple , filled her with soft , consolatory ideas , that sweetened her night 's rest , even in her uncertainty where she should find , or where seek repose on the night that would follow . 
But this brighter side of her prospects , which soothed her on its first view , lost its gay colouring upon farther examination : that Lady Aurora should be forbidden to see , forbidden to write to her , was shocking to her feelings , and blighting to her happiness : and even though the tender nature , and strong partiality , of that youthful friend , might privately yield to the pleadings of an oppressed and chosen favourite , Ellis , while glowing with the hope that the interest which she had excited would be lastingly cherished , revolted from every plan that was clandestine . 
Mrs. Maple , who , in common with all those whose tempers are violent in the same proportion that their judgment is feeble , had issued forth her mandates , without examining whether they could be obeyed ; and had uttered her threats , without considering whether she could put them into execution ; no sooner learnt , from Selina , that Ellis was tranquilly preparing to depart , than she repented the step which she had taken , and passed the night in suggesting how it might be retrieved , to spare herself the discredit , in the neighbourhood , of a breach with Mrs. Howel . 
Destitute as Ellis felt , she would have resisted such a mockery of benevolence , but from gratitude at the pleasure which it procured to Selina . 
Again , according to her promise , arrived Miss Arbe , and again hearing the sound of the harp , tript lightly up stairs to the dressing-room of Selina ; where she paid her compliments immediately to Ellis , whom she courteously solicited to take an airing with her to Brighthelmstone , and thence to accompany her home for the day . 
Anxious to strengthen her weak resources , by forming some new connection , Ellis was listening to this proposal , when a footman brought her a letter . 
Concluding that it came from abroad , she received it with strong emotion , and evident alarm ; but no sooner had she looked at the direction , than the brightest bloom glowed upon her cheeks , her eyes were suffused with tears of pleasure , and she pressed , involuntarily , to her heart , the writing of Lady Aurora Granville . 
The gross treatment which she had experienced , and the daily menace of being dismissed , were become utterly insupportable ; and she determined , in a letter from Brighthelmstone , to take a final leave of Mrs. Maple . 
Extremely pleased by the sight of Ellis , `` What , '' she cried , `` my sister actress ? 
I was told you would go no where , Miss Ellis , but to Lady Aurorre Granville , and the Honourable Med : Howel . 
Ellis assured her that it had not the least . 
Ellis , disturbed by these most unseasunable questions , answered , in a dejected tone , that she was not happy enough to be able , at this moment , to give any circumstantial account of herself . 
They had arrived , nevertheless , within half a mile of Brighthelmstone , before any thing really explanatory had passed : Ellis , then , alarmed with reflecting that , if again dragged to Lewes , she must again have to quit it , with scarcely a chance of such another opportunity for endeavouring to bring forward her project , conquered her reluctance to opening upon her distress , and said , `` You little suspect , Miss Arbe , how deep an obligation I owe to your kindness , in carrying me to day to Brighthelmstone ! '' 
`` How so , Miss Ellis ? 
The obligations , however heavy of endurance , which led her to bear similar , and still more offensive examinations from Mrs. Maple , existed not here ; and the compulsion of debts of that nature , could alone strengthen the patience , or harden the feelings of a generous spirit , to sustain so rude and unfeeling an inquisition . 
Ellis saw , but too plainly , how little she had to expect from spontaneous pity , or liberality ; and hesitated whether to plead more humbly , or to relinquish at once her plan . 
here interrupted Miss Arbe , casting at Ellis , upon the recollection of such a confirmation of her birth and connections , a look of so much favour , that , again hoping for her aid , Ellis begged to alight at Miss Matson 's , the milliner . 
Ellis , finding how little she was understood , was forced to add : `` It is not for any purchases that I go to Miss Matson ; -- it is to lodge in her house , till I can find some better asylum ! 
That she should acknowledge herself to be poor , was quite enough , be her other claims to notice what they might , to excite immediate contempt in Miss Bydel : while Miss Arbe , in that point , more liberal , but , in all that she conceived to belong to fashion , a very slave , was embarrassed how to treat her , till she could gain some information how she was likely to be treated by the world : but neither of them had entertained the most distant suspicion , that she was not settled under the roof , and the patronage , of Mrs. Maple . 
Ellis perceived their dilemma , and again lost her hope . 
From what was said , Miss Arbe could not be without some suspicion of what was held back ; and she as little desired to hear , as Ellis could to utter , a word that might derogate from the universal elevation and distinction at which she aspired ; she was perfectly ready , therefore , to accept what would flatter , and to reject what would mortify her ; forgetting , in common with all vain characters , that to shrink from the truth ourselves , saves one person only from hearing our defects . 
-- '' `` But still I do n't understand , '' cried Miss Bydel , `` what it is Miss Ellis means . 
Ellis briefly explained , that her wish was to be placed in some family , where there were children , as a governess . 
Ellis , when compelled to speak , was compelled , also , to confess , that she had not mentioned her design to either of those ladies . 
Miss Bydel now , stiffly drawing up , declared that she could not help taking the liberty to say , that for a young lady , who was under the care of two persons of so much consideration and fortune , to resolve upon disposing of herself , without consulting either of them , was a thing she never should countenance ; and which she was sure all the world would be against . 
Ellis remained so confounded , when thus unexpectedly abandoned , that she stood still , a few minutes , at the door , unable to answer , or even to understand , the civil inquiries of a young woman , from the shop , whether she would not come in , to give her commands . 
She desired leave to present her thanks to Mrs. Maple , for the asylum which had been afforded to her distress ; without any hints at the drawbacks to its comfort ; and then briefly communicated her intention , to pass the rest of the time of her suspence and difficulties , in working at her needle ; unless she could find means to place herself in some respectable family , as a governess to its children . 
She finished her letter by the warmest acknowledgments , for the kindness which she had experienced from Selina . 
This , which she thought a respect demanded by decency to Mrs. Maple , was her first action : she then opened , as a balm to her wounded feelings , the letter of Lady Aurora Granville ; but had the cruel disappointment to find in it only these words : `` Hate me not , sweet Miss Ellis -- but I am forbidden to write to you ! 
Ellis wrote a cold excuse , declaring her firm purpose to endeavour to depend , henceforth , upon her own exertions . 
And , to strengthen this resolution , she re-read a passage in one of her letters from abroad , to which she had frequent recourse , when her spirits felt unequal to her embarrassments . 
The hope of self-dependence , ever cheering to an upright mind , sweetened the rest of Ellis in her mean little apartment , though with no brighter prospect than that of procuring a laborious support , through the means of Miss Matson , should she fail to obtain a recommendation for the superiour office of a governess . 
Ellis , with utter contempt , was still perusing this letter , when she was surprised by a visit from Miss Arbe and Miss Bydel . 
The careless air with which Miss Arbe had heard , without entering into her distress ; and the indifference with which she had suddenly dropt the invitations that , the minute before , had been urgent nearly to persecution , had left an impression of the littleness of her character upon the mind of Ellis , that made her present civilities , though offered with a look that implied an expectation of gratitude , received with the most distant reserve . 
And still less was she disposed to welcome Miss Bydel , whose behaviour , upon the same occasion , had been rude as well as unfeeling . 
`` So I hear , Miss Ellis , you have met with misfortunes ? '' 
`` What most concerns me for poor Miss Ellis , '' said Miss Arbe , `` is her having no instrument . 
I ca n't think how she can live without one . 
Why do n't you hire a harp , Miss Ellis ? '' 
Ellis quietly answered , that she was not very musically inclined . 
`` I only hope , '' said Miss Arbe , `` that whoever has the good fortune to obtain the society of Miss Ellis , will have a taste for music . 
` Twill be a thousand shames if her fine talents should be thrown away . '' 
Ellis , as she suspected not her design , was much surprised by this return to fine speeches . 
Still , however , she sustained her own reserve , for the difficulty of devising to what the change might be owing , made her cast it upon mere caprice . 
Each followed the bent of her humour , till Miss Arbe , at length , started an idea that caught the attention of Ellis : this was , that instead of becoming an humble companion , she should bring her musical acquirements into use , by giving lessons to young ladies . 
Ellis readily owned that such a plan would be best adapted to her inclinations , if Mrs. Howel and Mrs. Maple could be prevailed upon to exert their influence in procuring her some scholars . 
I should like to know how it was you got this musical turn , Miss Ellis ? 
Ellis earnestly asked whether she might hope for the powerful aid of Miss Arbe to forward such a plan ? '' 
With smiles , therefore , of ineffable affability , she promised Ellis her protection ; and glibly ran over the names of twenty or thirty families of distinction , every one of which , she said , in the choice of instructors to their children , was guided by her opinion . 
`` But then , '' added she , with an air that now mingled authority with condescension , `` you must have a better room than this , you know . 
The house is well enough , and the milliner is fashionable : she is my own ; but this little hole will never do : you must take the drawing room . 
There is a delightful one at Strode 's now : one I long for myself , and then -- '' patting her shoulder , `` you must dress , too , a little ... like other people , you know . '' 
`` But how is she to do it , '' said Miss Bydel , `` if she has got no money ? '' 
Take my advice , Miss Ellis , and you wo n't find yourself vastly to be pitied . '' 
Miss Bydel , now , was extremely gratified : this was the first time that she had surprized from Ellis any account of herself , and she admitted not a doubt that it would be followed by her whole history . 
`` That was unlucky enough , '' she said ; `` and pray what money might you have in it ? '' 
Ellis , strongly affected herself , though she had not affected her auditors , by the retrospection of a misfortune which had been so eventful to her of distress , said no more ; till she saw some alarm upon the countenance of Miss Arbe , at the idea of a protege really pennyless ; and then , fearing to forfeit her patronage , she mentioned the twenty pounds which she owed to the generous kindness of Lady Aurora Granville . 
cried , `` And I , Miss Ellis , will go to the music shop , and chuse your instrument for you myself . '' 
A very fine harp soon arrived , with a message from Miss Arbe , desiring that she might find Miss Ellis wholly disengaged the next morning , when she meant to come quite alone , and to settle every thing . 
What Miss Arbe called trying the instrument , was selecting the most difficult passages , from the most difficult music which she attempted to play , and making Ellis teach her the fingering , the time , and the expression , in a lesson which lasted the whole morning . 
The present scheme for Ellis had another forcible consideration in its favour with Miss Arbe ; a consideration not often accustomed to be treated with utter contempt , even by higher and wiser characters ; the convenience of her purse . 
Her various accomplishments had already exhausted the scanty powers for extra-expences of her father ; and it was long since she had received any instructions through the ordinary means of remuneration . 
But , ingenious in whatever could turn to her advantage , she contrived to learn more when she ceased to recompense her masters , than while the obligation between them and their pupil was reciprocated ; for she sought no acquaintance but amongst the scholars of the most eminent professors , whether of music or painting : her visits were always made at the moment which she knew to be dedicated to practising , or drawing ; and she regularly managed , by adroit questions , seasoned with compliments , to attract the attention of the master to herself , for an explanation of the difficulties which distressed her in her private practice . 
Compliments , however , were by no means the only payment that she returned for such assistance : if a benefit were in question , she had not an acquaintance upon whom she did not force tickets ; if a composition were to be published , she claimed subscriptions for it from all her friends ; if scholars were desired , not a parent had a child , not a guardian had a ward , whom she did not endeavour to convince , that to place his charge under such or such a professor , was the only method to draw forth his talents . 
She scarcely entered a house in which she had not some little scheme to effect ; and seldom left it with her purpose unfulfilled . 
The artists , also , were universally her humble servants ; for though they could not , like the world at large , be the dupes of her unfounded pretensions to skill , they were sure , upon all occasions , to find her so active to serve and oblige them , so much more civil than those who had money , and so much more social than those who had power , that , from mingling gratitude with their personal interest , they suffered her claims to superiour knowledge to pass uncanvassed ; and while they remarked that her influence supplied the place of wealth , they sought her favour , they solicited her recommendation , they dedicated to her their works . 
She charmed them by personal civilities ; she won them by attentions to their wives , sisters , or daughters ; and her zeal in return for their gratuitous services had no limit -- except what might be attached to her purse . 
A young lady who had been educated abroad , who was brought forth into the world by Mrs. Maple , and protected by Mrs. Howel , and Lady Aurora Granville , was already an engaging object ; but when she was reduced to support herself by her own talents , through the bankruptcy of her friends , she became equally interesting and respectable ; and , as such , touched for her misfortunes , yet charmed to profit from her accomplishments , Lady Kendover , a leading Diletante in the highest circles , was the first to beg that Miss Arbe would arrange the terms , and fix a day and hour , for Miss Ellis to attend Lady Barbara Frankland , her ladyship 's niece . 
Miss Arbe , enchanted with her success , hastened to have the pleasure of communicating it to Ellis , and of celebrating her own influence . 
But Miss Arbe declared that she would not have her recommendation disgraced by any meanness : she engaged , therefore , at a high price , the best apartment in the house ; she chose various articles of attire , lest Ellis should choose them , she said , too parsimoniously ; and employed , in fitting her up , some trades-people who were honoured , occasionally , by working for herself . 
In vain Ellis represented the insufficiency of her little store for such expences . 
The fear of some ultimate responsibility , for having introduced such an impostor into high life , now urged Mrs. Maple to work upon the curiosity of Mrs. Ireton , to offer the unknown traveller the post of her humble companion : but Ellis retained a horrour of the disposition and manners of Mrs. Ireton , that made her decidedly refuse the proposition ; and the incenced Mrs. Maple , and the imperious Mrs. Howel , alike ashamed to proclaim what they considered as their own dupery , were alike , ultimately , reduced to leave the matter to take its course : Mrs. Howel finally comforting herself , that , in case of detection , she could cast the whole disgrace upon Mrs. Maple ; who equally consoled herself by deciding , in that case , to throw the whole blame upon Mr. Harleigh . 
Thus equipped , and decided , the following week opened upon Ellis , with a fair prospect of fulfilling the injunctions of her correspondent , by learning to suffice to herself . 
This idea animated her with a courage which , in some measure , divested her of the painful timidity , that , to the inexperienced and modest , is often subversive of the use of the very talents which it is their business and interest to display . 
Her first essay exceeded her best expectations in its success ; a success the more important , as failure , there , might have fastened discredit upon her whole enterprize , since her first pupil was Lady Barbara Frankland . 
She looked at her ; watched her ; listened to her ; and prevailed upon Lady Kendover to engage that she should every day take a lesson ; during which her whole mind was directed to imitating Miss Ellis in her manner of holding the harp ; in the air of her head as she turned from it to look at the musical notes ; in her way of curving , straightening , or elegantly spreading her fingers upon the strings ; and in the general bend of her person , upon which depended the graceful effect of the whole . 
Miss Arbe was all happy exultation , at a prosperity for which she repaid herself , without scruple , by perpetual , though private lessons ; and Ellis , whose merit , while viewed with rivalry , she had sought to depreciate , she was now foremost to praise . 
The swellings of envy and jealousy gave way to triumph in her own discernment ; and all severities of hypercriticism subsided into the gentler vanity , and more humane parade , of patronage . 
Ellis , therefore , from the very moderate price at which Miss Arbe , for the purpose of obliging her own various friends , had fixed her instructions , was a treasure to Lady Arramede ; who had never before so completely found , what she was always indefatigably seeking , a professor not more cheap than fashionable . 
The low terms , therefore , upon which Ellis taught , though the real inducement for her being employed , urged the most arrogant reception of the young instructress , in the apprehension that she might , else , suspect the motive to her admission ; and the instant that she entered the room , her little pupil was hurried to the instrument , that she might not presume to imagine it possible , that she could remain in the presence of her ladyship , even for a moment , except to be professionally occupied . 
Yet was she by no means more niggardly in bestowing favour , than rapacious in seeking advantage . 
Her thoughts were constantly employed in forming interrogatories for obtaining musical information , by which her daughter might profit in the absence of the mistress ; though she made them without troubling herself to raise her eyes , except when she did not comprehend the answer ; and then , her look was of so haughty a character , that she seemed rather to be demanding satisfaction than explication . 
The same address , also , accompanied her desire to hear the pieces , which her daughter began learning , performed by the mistress : she never made this request till the given hour was more than passed ; and made it then rather as if she were issuing a command , for the execution of some acknowledged duty , than calling forth talents , or occupying time , upon which she could only from courtesy have any claim . 
Miss Brinville , the fifth pupil of Ellis , was a celebrated beauty , who had wasted her bloom in a perpetual search of admiration ; and lost her prime , without suspecting that it was gone , in vain and ambitious difficulties of choice . 
Yet her charms , however faded and changed , still , by candle-light , or when adroitly shaded , through a becoming skill in the arrangement of her head-dress , appeared nearly in their first lustre ; and in this view it was that they were always present to herself ; though , by the world , the altered complexion , sunk eyes , and enlarged features , exhibited by day-light , or by common attire , were all , except through impertinent retrospection , that were any more noticed . 
She was just arrived at Brighthelmstone , with her mother , upon a visit to an acquaintance , whom that lady had engaged to invite them , with a design of meeting Sir Lyell Sycamore , a splendid young baronet , with whom Miss Brinville had lately danced at a private ball ; where , as he saw her for the first time , and saw her to every advantage which well chosen attire , animated vanity , and propitious wax-light could give , he had fallen desperately enamoured of her beauty ; and had so vehemently lamented having promised to join a party to Brighthelmstone , that both the mother and the daughter concluded , that they had only to find a decent pretence for following him , to secure the prostration of his title and fortune at their feet . 
Ellis was received by her with civility , but treated with the utmost coldness . 
The sight of beauty at its height , forced a self-comparison of no exhilarating nature ; and , much as she built upon informing Sir Lyell of her lessons , she desired nothing less than shewing him from whom they were received . 
To sit at the harp so as to justify the assertion of the Baronet , became her principal study ; and the glass before which she tried her attitudes and motions , told her such flattering tales , that she soon began to think the harp the sweetest instrument in the world , and that to practise it was the most delicious of occupations . 
Of all her pupils , no one was so utterly hopeless as Miss Brinville , whom she found equally destitute of ear , taste , intelligence , and application . 
Ellis , whose mind was ardent , and whose integrity was incorrupt , felt an honourable anxiety to fulfil the duties of her new profession , though she had entered upon them merely from motives of distress . 
She was earnest , therefore , for the improvement of her pupils ; and conceived the laudable ambition , to merit what she might earn , by their advancement . 
But here , the darkness of all musical apprehension was so impenetrable , that not a ray of instruction could make way through it ; and Ellis who , though she saw that to study her looks at the instrument was her principal object , had still imagined that to learn music came in for some share in taking lessons upon the harp , finding it utterly vain to try to make her distinguish one note from another , held her own probity called upon to avow her opinion ; since she saw herself the only one who could profit from its concealment . 
Gently , therefore , and in terms the most delicate that she could select , she communicated her fears to Mrs. Brinville , that the talents of Miss Brinville were not of a musical cast . 
Miss Brinville , colouring with the deepest resentment , protested that she was never so well pleased as in hearing plain truth ; but each made an inclination of her head , that intimated to Ellis that she might hasten her departure : and the first news that reached her the next morning was , that Miss Brinville had sent for a celebrated and expensive professor , then accidentally at Brighthelmstone , to give her lessons upon the harp . 
Miss Arbe , from whom Ellis received this intelligence , was extremely angry with her for the strange , and what she called unheard-of measure that she had taken . 
`` What had you , '' she cried , `` to do with their manner of wasting their money ? 
She possessed a real genius for music , though it was so little seconded by industry , that whatever she could not perform without labour or time , she relinquished . 
Thus , though all she played was executed in a truly fine style , nothing being practised , nothing was finished ; and though she could amuse herself , and charm her auditors , with almost every favourite passage that she heard , she could not go through a single piece ; could play nothing by book ; and hardly knew her notes . 
Nevertheless , Ellis found her so far superiour , in musical capacity , to every other pupil that had fallen to her charge , that she conceived a strong desire to make her the fine player that her talents fitted her for becoming . 
Her utmost exertions , however , and warmest wishes , were insufficient for this purpose . 
The genius with which Miss Sycamore was endowed for music , was unallied to any soft harmonies of temper , or of character : she was presumptuous , conceited , and gaily unfeeling . 
If Ellis pressed her to more attention , she hummed an air , without looking at her ; if she remonstrated against her neglect , she suddenly stared at her , though without speaking . 
She had a haughty indifference about learning ; but it was not from an indifference to excel ; 't was from a firm self-opinion , that she excelled already . 
If she could not deny , that Ellis executed whole pieces , in as masterly a manner as she could herself play only chosen passages , she deemed that a mere mechanical part of the art , which , as a professor , Ellis had been forced to study ; and which she herself , therefore , rather held cheap than respected . 
Ellis , at first , seriously lamented this wayward spirit , which wasted real talents ; but all interest for her pupil soon subsided ; and all regret concentrated in having such a scholar to attend ; for the manners of Miss Sycamore had an excess of insolence , that rather demanded apathy than philosophy to be supported , by those who were in any degree within her power . 
Ellis was treated by her with a sort of sprightly defiance , that sometimes seemed to arise from gay derision ; at others , from careless haughtiness . 
Miss Sycamore , who gave little attention to the rumours of her history , saw her but either as a Wanderer , of blighted fortune , and as such looked down upon her with contempt ; or as an indigent young woman of singular beauty , and as such , with far less willingness , looked up to her with envy . 
It was not , indeed , one which Miss Arbe would have deigned to put upon her list ; but Ellis , who had no pride to support in her present undertaking , save the virtuous and right pride of owing independence to her own industry , as readily accepted a proferred scholar from the daughter of a common tradesman , as she had accepted the daughter of an Earl , whom she taught at Lady Kendover 's . 
Much surprised by her youthful appearance , `` Good now , my dear , '' he cried , `` why to be sure it ca n't be you as pretends to learn young misses music ? 
The hours of attendance being then settled , he looked smirkingly in her face , and added , `` Which of us two is to hold the stakes , you or I ? '' 
But when she assured him that she had not the most distant desire to anticipate such an appropriation , he assumed an air of generous affluence , and assuring her , in return , that he was not afraid to trust her , counted two guineas and half a guinea , upon the table , and said , `` So if you please , my dear , we 'll split the difference . '' 
In a constant struggle to hide the disproportion of her origin , and early habits , with her present pretensions to fashion , she was tormented by an incessant fear of betraying , that she was as little bred as born to the riches which she now possessed . 
This made her always authoritative with her domestics , or inferiours , to keep them in awe ; pert with gentlemen , by way of being genteel ; and rude with ladies , to shew herself their equal . 
Mr. Tedman conceived , immediately , a warm partiality for Ellis , whose elegant manners , which , had he met with her in high life , would have distanced him by their superiority , now attracted him irresistibly , in viewing them but as good-nature . 
He called her his pretty tudeler , and bid her make haste to earn her five guineas ; significantly adding , that , if his daughter were not finished before they were gone , he was rich enough to make them ten . 
With these seven pupils , Ellis , combating the various unpleasant feelings that were occasionally excited , prosperously began her new career . 
Her spirits , from the fulness of her occupations , revived ; and she soon grew a stranger to the depression of that ruminating leisure , which is wasted in regret , in repining , or in wavering meditation . 
So sincere , nevertheless , was the sense which Ellis entertained of the essential obligations which she owed to Miss Arbe , that she suffered this continual intrusion and fatigue without a murmur . 
And but that these ladies had personal engagements for their evenings , Ellis could not have found time to keep herself in such practice as her new profession required ; and her credit , if not her scholars , might have been lost , through the selfishness of the very patronesses by whom they had been obtained . 
Another circumstance , also , somewhat disturbed , though she would not suffer it to interrupt what she now deemed to be her professional study : she no sooner touched her harp , than she heard a hurrying , though heavy step , descend the stairs ; and never opened her door , after playing or singing , without perceiving a gentleman standing against it , in an attitude of listening . 
He hastened away ashamed , upon her appearance ; yet did not the less fail to be in waiting at her next performance . 
Displeased , and nearly alarmed by the continual repetition of this curiosity , she complained of it to Miss Matson , desiring that she would find means to put an end to so strange a liberty . 
Miss Matson said , that the person in question , who was a gentleman of very good character , though rather odd in his ways , had taken the little room which Ellis had just relinquished : she was sure , however , that he meant no harm , for he had often told her , as he passed through the shop , that he ought to pay double for his lodging , for the sake of hearing the harp , and the singing . 
She heard , also , but nearly with indifference , that the two elder ladies had been furious with indignation , at the prosperity of the scheme of Miss Arbe , by which Ellis seemed to be naturalized at Brighthelmstone ; where she was highly considered , and both visited and invited , by all who had elegance , sense , or taste to appreciate her merits . 
Of Elinor nothing was positively known , though some indirect information reached her aunt , that she had found means to return to the continent . 
All the scholars of Ellis having , upon this occasion , taken tickets of Lady Kendover , who patronized the harper , Ellis meant to dedicate the leisure thus left her to musical studies ; but she was broken in upon by Miss Bydel , who , possessing an odd ticket , and having , through some accident , missed joining her party , desired Ellis would immediately get ready to go with her to the concert . 
at the loud voice with which , upon entering the room , she said , `` Well , now I must look about for some acquaintance , '' straitly strutted on to the upper end of the apartment . 
Ellis quietly glided after her , concluding it to be a matter of course that they should keep together . 
Ellis , though both abashed and provoked , felt herself too justly under the protection of Miss Bydel , to submit to the mortification of turning back , as if she had been an unauthorised intruder ; though the averted looks , and her consciousness of the yet more disdainful opinions of Mrs. Maple , left her no hope of countenance , but through the kindness of Selina . 
It was impossible for Ellis to escape seeing how completely she engrossed his attention , sedulously as she sought to employ her own another way . 
But , having advanced too far into the room , by following Miss Bydel , to descend without being recognized by those whose good opinion it was now her serious concern to preserve , all her scholars being assembled upon this occasion ; she resolved to sustain her credit , by openly joining , or , at least , closely following , Miss Bydel , when the concert should be over . 
She felt , therefore , so awkward , that , hoping by a fair explanation , to acquit herself to her scholars at their next lessons , she was rising to return alone to her lodging , when the gentleman already mentioned , planting himself abruptly before her , confidently enquired whether he could be of any service in seeing her out . 
She gravely pronounced a negative , and re-seated herself . 
He made no attempt at conversation , but again took his place by her side . 
In the hope of lessening , in some degree , her embarrassment , Ellis , once more , sought the notice of Selina , whose behaviour appeared so extraordinary , that she began to imagine herself mistaken in believing that she had yet been seen ; but when , again , she caught the eye of that young lady , a low and respectful courtesy vainly solicited return , or notice . 
She was compelled , however , to walk on , and Ellis now concluded that her bold and troublesome neighbour must be Sir Lyell Sycamore , who , seldom at home but to a given dinner , had never been present at any lesson of his sister 's . 
His quietness , however , did not deceive Ellis ; the admiration conveyed by his eyes was so wholly unmixt with respect , that , embarrassed and comfortless , she knew not which way to turn her own . 
Mr. Tedman , soon after , perceiving her to be alone , and unserved , came , with a good humoured smirk upon his countenance , to bring her a handful of cakes . 
It was in vain that she declined them ; he placed them , one by one , till he had counted half a dozen , upon the form by her side , saying , `` Do n't be so coy , my dear , do n't be so coy . 
Steadily as Ellis endeavoured to avoid looking either to the right or to the left , she could not escape observing the surprise and diversion , which this visit and whisper afforded to Sir Lyell ; yet the good humour of Mr. Tedman , and her conviction of the innocence of his kindness , made it impossible for her to repulse him with anger . 
Advancing , next , his mouth close to her ear , he said , `` I should have been glad enough to have had you come and drink a cup of tea with I and my darter ; I can tell you that ; only my darter 's always in such a fuss about what the quality will think of her ; else , we are dull enough together , only she and me ; for , do what she will , the quality do n't much mind her . 
He now , good-humouredly nodding , begged her not to spare the cakes , and promising she should have more if she were hungry , returned to his daughter . 
Sir Lyell , with a scarcely stifled laugh , and in a tone the most familiar , enquired whether she wished for any further refreshment . 
An elderly gentleman , who was walking up and down the room , now bowed to her . 
Not knowing him , she let his salutation pass apparently disregarded ; when , some of her cakes accidentally falling from the form , he eagerly picked them up , saying , as he grasped them in his hand , `` Faith , Madam , you had better have eaten them at once . 
Ellis then , through his voice and language , discovered her fellow voyager , Mr. Riley ; though a considerable change in his appearance , from his travelling garb , had prevented a more immediate recollection . 
Additional disturbance now seized her , lest he should recur to the suspicious circumstances of her voyage and arrival . 
While he still stood before her , declaiming upon the squeezed cakes , which he held in his hand , Mr. Tedman , coming softly back , and gently pushing him aside , produced , with a self-pleased countenance , a small plate of bread and butter , saying , `` Look , here , my dear , I 've brought you a few nice slices ; for I see the misfortune that befel my cakes , of their falling down ; and I resolved you should not be the worse for it . 
Her apprehensions , however , of his recollection subsided , when she found him wholly unsuspicious that he had ever seen her before ; and called to mind her own personal disguise at their former meeting . 
Sir Lyell , piqued to see her monopolized by two such fogrums as he thought Messieurs Riley and Tedman , was bending forward to address her more freely himself , when Lady Barbara Frankland , suddenly perceiving her , flew to take her hand , with the most cordial expressions of partial and affectionate regard . 
Lady Barbara had no sooner returned to her aunt , than Sir Marmaduke Crawley , in the name of that lady , advanced with a request , that Miss Ellis would be so obliging as to try the instrument of the Welsh harper . 
Though this message was sent by Lady Kendover in terms of perfect politeness , and delivered by Sir Marmaduke with the most scrupulous courtesy , it caused Ellis extreme disturbance , from her unconquerable repugnance to complying with her ladyship 's desire ; but , while she was entreating him to soften her refusal , by the most respectful expressions , his two sisters came hoydening up to her , charging him to take no denial , and protesting that they would either drag The Ellis to the harp , or the harp to The Ellis , if she stood dilly dallying any longer . 
And then , each seizing her by an arm , without any regard to her supplications , or to the shock which they inflicted upon the nerves of their brother , they would have put their threat into immediate execution , but for the weakness occasioned by their own immoderate laughter at their merry gambols ; which gave time for Lady Kendover to perceive the embarrassment and the struggles of Ellis , and to suffer her partial young admirer , Lady Barbara , to be the bearer of a civil apology , and a recantation of the request . 
To this commission of the well-bred aunt , the kind-hearted niece added a positive insistance , that Ellis should join their party ; to which she rather drew than led her , seating her , almost forcibly , next to herself , with exulting delight at rescuing her from the turbulent Miss Crawleys . 
Lady Kendover , to whom the exact gradations of etiquette were always present , sought , by a look , to intimate to her niece , that while the Hon. Miss Arramede was standing , this was not the place for Ellis : but the niece , natural , inconsiderate , and zealous , understood not the hint ; and the timid embarrassment of Ellis shewed so total a freedom from all obtrusive intentions , that her ladyship could not but forgive , however little she had desired the junction ; and , soon afterwards , encouragingly led her to join both in the conversation and the breakfast . 
Selina , now , ran to shake hands with her dear Ellis , expressing the warmest pleasure at her sight . 
Ellis as much , though not as disagreeably surprised by her notice now , as she had been by the more than neglect which had preceded it , was hesitating what judgment to form of either , when Miss Sycamore , from some distance , scornfully called out to her , `` Do n't fail to stop at our house in your way back to your lodgings , Miss Ellis , to look at my harp . 
Lady Kendover , whose invariable politeness made her peculiarly sensible of any failure of that quality in another , perceiving Ellis extremely disconcerted , by the pointed malice of this humiliating command , at the moment that she was bearing her part in superiour society , redoubled her own civilities , by attentions as marked and public as they were obliging ; and , pleased by the modest gratitude with which they were received , had again restored the serenity of Ellis ; when a conversation , unavoidably overheard , produced new disturbance . 
The continual little laughs of Selina , whom no supplications of Ellis could keep quiet , now attracted the notice of Lady Kendover ; which so palpably encreased the confusion of Ellis , that the attention of her ladyship was soon transferred to herself . 
Ellis had no time to dwell upon the cruel , but natural misconstruction , from the change of her plan , which had thus lost her the good opinion of the benevolent Admiral ; the speech which followed from Mrs. Maple was yet more terrific . 
But he no sooner advanced to Ellis , than she turned from his investigation , in so much disorder , that her kind young friend , Lady Barbara , enquired what was the matter . 
She endeavoured to controul her alarm , cheerfully answering , that she was well ; but Riley no sooner caught the sound of her voice , than , riotously clapping his hands , he exclaimed , '' 'T is the Demoiselle ! 
That 's her voice ! 
And those are her eyes ! 
And there 's her nose ! 
It 's she , faith ! 
Ellis , dreadfully distressed , silently bowed down her head . 
Overwhelmed with shame at this disgraceful , and , in public , unanswerable attack , Ellis , utterly confounded , was painfully revolving in her mind , what vindication she might venture to offer ; and whether it were better to speak at once , or afterwards , and individually ; when , at the intimation of these deceits and disguises , the whole party turned towards her with alarmed and suspicious looks ; and then abruptly arose to depart ; Lady Kendover , taking the hand of her young niece , who still would have fondled Ellis , leading the way . 
Miss Arbe alone , of all the society to which Ellis was known , personally fearing to lose her useful mistress , ventured to whisper , `` Good morning , Miss Ellis : I 'll call upon you to-morrow . '' 
While all others , with cast-up eyes and hands , hurried off , as if contagion were in her vicinity . 
Petrified at her own situation , Ellis remained immovable , till she was roused from her consternation , by a familiar offer , from Sir Lyell Sycamore , to attend her home . 
Fearful of fresh offence , she recovered from her dismay to rise ; but , when she saw that the bold Baronet was fixed to accompany her , the dread of such an appearance to any one that she might meet , after the disastrous scene in which she had been engaged , frightened her into again sitting down . 
Sir Lyell stood , or sauntered before her , meaning to mark her , to the gentlemen who still lingered , observant and curious , in the room , as his property ; till Mr. Tedman , coming back from an inner apartment , begged , in the civilest manner , leave to pass , and carry a glass of white wine negus to the young music-player , which he had saved out of a bowl that he had been making for himself . 
Ellis declined the negus , but , rejoicing in any safe and honest protection , entreated that Mr. Tedman would have the goodness to order one of his servants to see her home . 
Sir Lyell , sneeringly , and again placing himself before her , demanded to play the part of the domestic ; and Mr. Tedman , extremely disconcerted , as well as disappointed by the rejection of his negus , hung back ashamed . 
Had she named Lord Melbury , the ready suspicions of libertinism would but have added to the familiarity of the Baronet 's pursuit ; but the mention of Lady Aurora Granville startled him into respect , and he involuntarily bowed , as he made way for her to proceed . 
He ordered his footman to see Miss safe to her lodging ; and regretted that he could not take her to it in his own coach , `` which I would certainly , my dear , do , '' he said , `` but for the particularity of my darter , who will never consent to the most minimus thing in the world , but what she thinks will be agreeable to the quality . '' 
Ellis passed the rest of the day in the most severe inquietude , ruminating upon the ill effects that would probably result from an attack which she had been so little able to parry . 
Vainly she expected Miss Arbe , from whom alone she had any hope of support ; and the apprehension of being forsaken even by her professed patroness , made the thought of appearing before Lady Kendover grow seriously formidable : but all fears were trifling compared to the consternation with which they terminated , when , the next day , while fancying that every sound would prove the chaise of Miss Arbe , hour after hour passed , without any carriage , any message ; and , finally , the night closed in by the reception of a note from the steward of Lady Kendover , to demand the account of Miss Ellis , as Lady Barbara Frankland did not purpose to take any more lessons . 
The abruptness of this dismission , and the indelicacy of sending it through a domestic , were not more offensive to the feelings of Ellis , than the consequences to be expected from such a measure of hostility , were menacing to her present plan of existence . 
She was still deliberating in what manner to address some sort of self-justification to Lady Kendover , when a similar note arrived from the butler of Lady Arramede . 
Yet the opening to this interview seemed not very propitious : Miss Bydel , instead of ascending the stairs , as usual , seated herself with Miss Matson , and sent for Ellis ; who obeyed the call with extreme ill will , conscious how little fit for a millner 's shop , was either what she might be called upon to say , or what she might be constrained to hear . 
Miss Bydel failed not to take this opportunity of making sundry enquiries into the manner in which Ellis passed her time ; whom she saw ; whither she went ; what sort of table she kept ; and what allowance she made for the trouble which she gave to the servants . 
`` Well , my dear , '' she cried , `` this is but a bad affair , this business of the day before yesterday . 
Ellis , in much confusion , besought that she would have the goodness to walk up stairs . 
Affrighted at the effect which this display of her poverty , and detection of it 's mystery , might produce upon her hostess , Ellis was again entreating for a tte  tte , when Mr. Riley , descending from his room to pass through the shop , exclaimed , `` Ah ha ! 
cried Miss Matson , `` if you knew Miss Ellis all this time , why did you ask us all so many questions about her , as if you had never seen her before in your life ? '' 
Though I had spent a good seven or eight hours as near to her as I am to you , I never had seen her before ! '' 
you mean because of her disguise , I take it , Sir ? '' 
For I was the very first person that called her Miss Ellis ! 
Miss Matson expressed her surprise , with a look towards Ellis that visibly marked a diminution of respect ; while one of the young women , who had fetched Ellis a chair , at the back of which she had been courteously standing , now freely dropt into it herself . 
They were here broken in upon by the appearance of Mr. Tedman , who , gently opening the shop-door , and carefully closing it again before he spoke or looked round , was beginning a whispering enquiry after the young music-maker ; when , perceiving her , he exclaimed , `` Mercy me , why , where were my eyes ? 
With a careless swing of his hat , and of his whole person , he negligently said , that he hoped she had caught no cold at the concert ; or at least none beyond what the cakes , the bread and butter , or the negus , of her gallant and liberal admirer , had been able to cure . 
Ellis , now , was only restrained from forcing her way up stairs , through the apprehension of exciting fresh sneers , by an offered pursuit of Mr. Tedman . 
The retreat sought by Ellis , from a recital as offensive to her ear as it was afflicting to her heart , was not long uninterrupted : Miss Arbe , next , made her appearance . 
Gravely , but civilly , she lamented the disturbance at the concert ; paradingly assuring Ellis that she should have called sooner , but that she had incessantly been occupied in endeavours to serve her . 
She had conversed with every one of her scholars ; but nothing was yet quite decided , as to what would be the result of that strange attack . 
Poor Mrs. Maple , to whom , of course , she had made her first visit , seemed herself in the utmost distress ; one moment repining , that she had suffered her charity to delude her into countenancing a person so unknown ; and another , vindicating herself warmly from all possible imputation of indiscretion , by the most positive affirmations of the unblemished reputation of Miss Ellis ; and these assertions , most fortunately , had , at length , determined Miss Bydel to support her , for how else , as she justly asked , should she get the money repaid that she had advanced for the harp ? 
Ellis had long known that the civilities which she owed to Miss Arbe , had their sole motive in selfishness ; but the total carelessness of giving them any other colour , became , now , so glaring , that she could with difficulty conceal the decrease either of her respect or of her gratitude . 
But Lady Kendover , who did not wait to be led , protested that she could by no means place her niece again under the tuition of Miss Ellis , till the concert-scene should be explained . 
Ellis dejectedly answered , that she could offer no other , than that necessity had forced her to disguise herself , that she might make her escape . 
Ellis heartily felicitated herself upon every occasion , by which she could lessen obligations of which she now felt the full weight , and , with the utmost alacrity , took her harp . 
Miss Arbe here had so much to study , so many passages to pick out , and such an eagerness to practise till she could conquer their difficulties , that she soon forgot that she had not a moment to spare ; and two hours already had been consecrated to her improvement , when intelligence was brought that Mr. Tedman 's carriage was come for Miss Ellis . 
She then added , that , after the scene of the preceding day , Miss Ellis must make it a point to let the first house that she entered be that of somebody of condition . 
She might go amongst trades-people as much as she pleased , when once she was established amongst persons of rank ; for trades-people were so much the best paymasters , that nobody could be angry if artists were partial to them ; but they must by no means take the lead ; nor suppose that they were to have any hours but those that would not suit other people . 
As she could not , therefore , re-commence her career at Lady Kendover 's , or at Lady Arramede 's , she must try to get received at Miss Sycamore 's ; -- or , if that should be too difficult , at the Miss Crawleys , who would object to nothing , as they cared for nobody 's opinion , and made it a rule to follow nobody 's advice . 
At present , therefore , Ellis might safely make her court to them , as she could always drop them when they became dangerous , or of no use . 
And just now she must snap at whoever and whatever could help to bring her again into credit . 
And the Miss Crawleys , though each of them was as wilful as a spoiled child , as full of tricks as a school-boy , and of as boisterous mirth as a dairy-maid , were yet sisters of a baronet , and born of a very good family ; and therefore they would be more serviceable to her than that vulgar Miss Tedman , even though she were an angel . 
Ellis listened in silent , and scarcely concealed disdain , to these worldly percepts ; yet Miss Tedman was so utterly disagreeable , and the sneers of Sir Lyell Sycamore had added such repugnance to her distaste of the civilities of Mr. Tedman , that she did not attempt opposing the dictatorial proceedings of Miss Arbe ; who gave orders , that the coachman should be told that Miss Ellis was indisposed , and sent her compliments , but could not wait upon Miss Tedman till the next week . 
She then again went on with her unacknowledged , but not less , to her tutress , laborious lesson , till she was obliged to hasten to her toilette , for her dinner-engagement ; leaving Ellis in the utmost alarm for her whole scheme ; and tormented with a thousand fears , because unable to fix upon any standard for the regulation of her conduct . 
Ellis had constantly on that day attended divine worship , during the month which she had spent at Brighthelmstone ; and now , to a call stronger than usual for the consolation which it might afford her , she joined an opinion , that to stay away , in her present circumstances , might have an air of absconding , or of culpability . 
She was placed , as usual , in a pew , with some other decent strangers , by a fee to the pew-opener ; but she had the mortification to find , when the service was over , that the dry clear frost , of the latter end of March , which had enabled her to walk to the church , was broken up by a heavy shower of rain . 
She had been amongst the first to hurry away , in the hope of escaping unnoticed , by hastening down the hill , on which the church is built , before the higher ranks of the congregation left their pews ; but , arrived at the porch , she was compelled to stop : she was unprovided with an umbrella , and the rain was so violent that , without one , she must have been wet through in a minute . 
She would have made way back to the pew which she had quitted , to wait for more moderate weather ; but the whole congregation was coming forth , and there was no re-passing . 
She was the more sensibly vexed at being thus impeded , from finding herself , almost immediately , joined by Sir Lyell Sycamore ; whose eagerness to speak to her by no means concealed his embarrassment in what manner to address , or to think of her . 
He was making , various offers of service ; to find the pew-opener ; to give her a seat to herself ; to fetch her a chaise from the nearest inn ; or an umbrella from his own carriage ; when Mrs. and Miss Brinville , who hurried from their pew , the instant that they saw the Baronet depart , cast upon them looks of such suspicious disdain , that he deemed it necessary , though he smiled and appeared gratified by their undisguised pique , to walk on with them to their carriage ; whispering , however , to Ellis , that he should return to take her under his care . 
Ellis , extremely shocked , could not endure to remain on the same spot , as if awaiting his services ; she glided , therefore , into a corner , close to the door ; hoping that the crowd , which incommoded , would at least protect her from being seen : but she had not been stationed there a moment , before she had the unwelcome surprise of hearing the words , `` Why , Mr. Stubbs , if here is not Miss Ellis ! '' 
and finding that she had placed herself between young Gooch , the farmer 's son , and Mr. Stubbs , the old steward . 
I should be glad to know , myself , Miss Ellis , as I call you , what you intend to do next ? 
It 's Miss Ellis , the music-maker , Ma'am , '' added he , to Lady Arramede , who just then came out with Miss Arramede ; `` the young girl as teaches our darters the musics ; and she 'll spoil all her things , poor thing , if somebody do n't give her a lift home . '' 
During this whisper , which Ellis strove vainly to avoid hearing , and which the familiar junction of young Gooch , who was related to Mr. Tedman , rendered more observable , she had the mortification of being evidently seen , though no longer , as heretofore , courteously acknowledged , by all her scholars and acquaintances . 
Miss Sycamore , the hardiest , passed , staring disdainfully in her face ; Mrs. Maple , the most cowardly , and who was accidentally at Brighthelmstone , pretended to have hurt her foot , that she might look down : the Miss Crawleys screamed out , `` The Ellis ! 
Ireton , who brought up the rear , quitted the group , to approach Ellis , and say , `` I am , positively , quite confounded , my dear Miss Ellis , at the mischief my confounded giddiness has brought about . 
Mr. Stubbs , nevertheless , had by no means the enjoyment that he expected from this distinction ; for Ellis had as little inclination as she had spirit , to exert herself for answering the numerous enquiries , relative to lands and rents , which he poured into her ears . 
Harassed and comfortless , Ellis passed the remainder of the day in painful recollections and apprehensive forebodings ; though utterly unable , either by retrospection to avoid , or by anticipation to prepare for the evils that she might have to encounter . 
She was by no means ignorant how unpleasantly Ellis might have been struck by her behaviour at the church ; but she thought her in a condition too forlorn to feel , much less to express any resentment : and she meant , by entering the chamber with an wholly uncustomary importance , to awe her from hazarding any complaint . 
But the modesty of Ellis was a mixture of dignity with humility ; if she thought herself oppressed or insulted , the former predominated ; if she experienced consideration and kindness , she was all meek gratitude in return . 
But when , by the steadiness of her representation , Miss Arbe found her own mistake , and saw what firmness could exist with indigence , what spirit could break through difficulty , she disguised her surprise , and changed , with alertness , the whole of her manner . 
She protested that some other voice must have been taken for her 's ; declared that she had always thought nobody so charming as Miss Ellis ; railed against the abominable world for its prejudices ; warmly renewed her professions of regard ; and then rang the bell , to order her footman to bring up a little parcel of music from her coach , which she was sure would delight them both to try together . 
Ellis suffered the music to be fetched ; but , before she would play it , entreated Miss Arbe to spare a few minutes to discourse upon her affairs . 
`` Very true , my dear Miss Ellis , if every body judged you as justly as I do ; but when people have enemies -- '' `` Enemies ? '' 
`` Why you know , my dear Miss Ellis , how I blamed you , from the first , for that nonsense of telling Miss Brinville that she had no ear for music : what could it signify whether she had or not ? 
One time she surprised you sitting entirely aloof , at the Welshman 's benefit , till he joined you ; another time , she caught you waiting for him in the aisle of the church ; and , in short -- '' `` Miss Arbe , '' cried Ellis , interrupting her , with undisguised resentment , `` if Miss Brinville can be amused by inventing , as well as propagating , premeditated motives for accidental occurrences , you must permit me to decline being the auditress , if I can not escape being the object of such fictitious censure ! '' 
Every body else , of course , would abide by her ladyship 's decision , `` and therefore , my dear Miss Ellis , '' she continued , `` I am excessively sorry , but our plan is quite overset . 
But disdain soon supplied her with philosophy , and scorning to make an appeal for a consideration so unfeelingly with-held , she calmly went to her harp . 
The contempt inspired by this worldly patroness , so intent upon her own advantage , so insensible to the distress of the person whom she affected to protect , occupied the mind of Ellis only while she was present ; the door was no sooner shut , than she felt wholly engrossed by her own situation , and her disappointment at large . 
This scheme , then , she cried , is already at an end ! 
Deeply hurt and strongly affected , how insufficient , she exclaimed , is a female to herself ! 
how nameless , how for ever fresh-springing are her difficulties , when she would owe her existence to her own exertions ! 
Her conduct is criticised , not scrutinized ; her character is censured , not examined ; her labours are unhonoured , and her qualifications are but lures to ill will ! 
Calumny hovers over her head , and slander follows her footsteps ! 
Here she checked herself ; candour , the reigning feature of her mind , repressed her murmurs . 
Involved as I am in darkness and obscurity , she cried , ought I to expect milder judgment ? 
She now turned her thoughts to what measures she must next pursue ; but felt no chance of equally satisfying herself in any other attempt . 
Music was her favourite study , and in the practice of that elegant , grateful , soul-soothing art , she found a softening to her cares , that momentarily , at least , lulled them to something like forgetfulness . 
And though this was a charm that could by no means extend to the dull and dry labour of teaching , it was a profession so preferable to all others , in her taste , that she bore patiently and cheerfully the minute , mechanical , and ear-wearing toil , of giving lessons to the unapt , the stupid , the idle , and the wilful ; for such , unhappily are the epithets most ordinarily due to beginners in all sciences and studies . 
Ellis enquired whether he were acquainted with the nature of her application to Miss Arbe . 
He then seated himself upon an armchair , and , leaning back at his ease , continued talking , but without looking at Ellis , or seeming to address her . 
`` By no means , '' she answered ; and asked whether she might write a few lines by him to Miss Arbe . 
He then , after again begging her pardon , took leave . 
`` But what , '' said he , staring , and shutting the door , and not seeming to comprehend her , `` what is the reason that you ca n't pay your bills ? '' 
Again Ellis could scarcely keep her countenance , at a question so unexpected , while she answered , `` From the customs , Sir , of the world , I have been brought up to avoid all obligations with strangers . '' 
Yet more struck with the sense of unbiassed equity manifested by this question , than by the simplicity shewn by that which had preceded it , Ellis felt her face suffused with shame , as she replied , `` I blush to have incurred such a reprimand ; but I hope to convince you , by the exertions which I shall not a moment delay making , how little it is my intention to practise any such injustice ; and how wide it would be from my approbation . '' 
She sat down , sensibly affected by the necessity of uttering this vindication . 
`` Well , then , '' said he , without observing her distress , `` wo n't it be more honest to run in debt with an old bachelor , who has nobody but himself to take care of , than with a set of poor people who , perhaps , have got their houses full of children ? '' 
The word honest , and the impossibility of disproving a charge of injuring those by whom she had been served , so powerfully shocked her feelings in arraigning her principles , that she could frame no answer . 
Conceiving her silence to be assent , he returned to the chimney-piece , and , taking the little packet of bills , prepared to put it into his pocket-book ; but , hastily , then , rising , she entreated him to restore it without delay . 
Her manner was so earnest that he did not dare contest her will , though he looked nearly as angry as he was sorry . 
He now bowed to her , with an air of concern , and , wishing her health and happiness , retreated ; but left her door wide open ; and she heard him say to the milliners , `` My dears , I 've made a great mistake : I wanted to set that pretty lady 's heart at rest , by paying her bills ; but she says she had rather owe them ; though she did not mention her reason . 
The most distant apprehension that her probity could be arraigned , was shocking ; and she determined to dedicate the evening to calculating all that she had either to pay or to receive ; and sooner to leave herself destitute of every means of support , but such as should arise from day to day , than hazard incurring any suspicion injurious to her integrity . 
These estimates , which were easily drawn up , afforded her , at once , a view of her ability to satisfy her creditors , and of the helpless poverty in which she must then remain herself : her courage , nevertheless , rose higher , from the conviction that her honour would be cleared . 
She was thus employed , when , late in the evening , Miss Arbe , full dressed , and holding her watch in her hand , ran up stairs . 
Come , quick , my dear Miss Ellis ! 
This logic , which she felt to be irrefutable , she uttered with the most perfect self-complacency , while spreading her music , and placing herself at the harp ; but once there , she would neither say nor hear another word ; and it was equally in vain that Ellis desired an explanation of the plan to which she alluded , or an answer to the petition which she had written herself . 
And Ellis found all her painful difficulties , how to extricate herself from the distresses of penury , the horrour of creditors , and the fears of want , treated but as minor considerations , when put in competition with the importance of Miss Arbe 's most trivial , and even stolen improvement . 
The quarter of an hour was scarcely passed , before Miss Arbe started up to be gone ; and , giving her music to Ellis to fold , while she drew on her gloves , cried , `` Well , you can tell me , now , what I must say to Lady Kendover . 
Ellis protested herself utterly ignorant what scheme she meant . 
`` Bless me , '' she cried , `` did not my cousin tell you what I 've been doing for you ? 
This self-eulogium having elated her spirits , her haste to depart sufficiently slackened , to give her time to make a farther demand , whether her cousin had executed her commission . 
`` Well , '' she cried , `` that old soul grows more provoking every day ! 
`` Lady Kendover , '' she said , `` had asserted , that if Miss Ellis had been celebrated in any public line of life , there would be less difficulty about employing her ; but as she had only been seen or noticed in private families , it was necessary to be much more particular as to her connexions and conduct ; because , in that case , she must , of course , be received upon a more friendly footing ; and with a consideration and confidence by no means necessary for a public artist . 
If , therefore , all were not clear and satisfactory -- '' Ellis , with mingled spirit and dignity , here interrupted her : `` Spare me , Madam , this preamble , for both our sakes ! 
Miss Arbe only treated this as an ignorant diffidence , scarcely worth even derision , till Ellis solemnly and positively repeated , that her resolution not to appear in public would be unalterable : she then became seriously offended , and , slightly wishing her good night , ran down stairs ; without making any other answer to her enquiry , concerning the request in her note , than that she knew not what it meant , and could not stay another moment . 
Her first impulse was to write to Lady Aurora , and implore her protection ; but this wish was soon subdued by an invincible repugnance , to drawing so young a person into any clandestine correspondence . 
Ellis answered that she could propose none : she desired only to receive and to return her work from day to day . 
Looking at her , now , with an air extremely contemptuous , Miss Matson replied , that that was by no means her way ; that all her young ladies came to her with handsome premiums ; and that she had already eight or nine upon her list , more than she was able to admit into her shop . 
Ellis , affrighted at the prospect before her , earnestly enquired whether Miss Matson would have the kindness to aid her in an application elsewhere , for some plain work . 
-- '' Ellis could bear no more : she promised to hasten her payment ; and begged to beleft alone . 
Ellis had but just cast herself , in deep disturbance , upon a chair , when her door was opened , without tapping , or any previous ceremony , by Mr. Giles Arbe ; who smilingly enquired after her health , with the familiar kindness of an intimate old friend ; but , receiving no immediate answer , gave her a nod , that said , do n't mind me ; and , sitting down by her side , began talking to himself . 
Roused by this interruption , she begged to know his commands . 
He finished his speech to himself , before he took any notice of her 's , and then , very good humouredly , asked what she wanted . 
`` May I hope , '' she cried , `` that you have the goodness to bring me some answer to my note ? '' 
but when , at last , she succeeded in making him recollect the circumstance , his countenance fell , and leaning against the back of his chair , while his stick , and a parcel which he held under his arm , dropt to the ground : `` I am frighted to death , '' he cried , `` for fear it 's that I tore last night , to light my little lamp ! '' 
-- '' Ellis immediately recognized her hand-writing . 
Again Ellis enquired what were his commands , frankly avowing , that she was too much engrossed by the melancholy state of her own affairs , to attend to any other . 
`` A poorer person , Sir , as I believe , and hope , '' answered she , `` sighing , than any amongst them , is unpaid also ! 
Ellis knew not whether to lament or to rejoice at this promised interference ; but , wholly overset by these new and unexpected obstacles to providing for her immediate subsistence , she had no resource but to await with patience the effect of his efforts . 
The following day , while anxiously expecting him , she was surprised by another visit from Miss Arbe ; who , with an air as sprightly as her own was dejected , cried , `` Well , I hope this new plan will make an end of all our difficulties . 
`` What a thousand pities , my dear Miss Ellis , to throw away your charming talents , through that terrible diffidence ! 
With the silent displeasure of contempt , Ellis put the parcel into her hands , and retreated . 
Ellis , returning , said that she had not seen any note . 
From this note , Ellis discovered that the plan was entirely altered : the professor was wholly omitted , and she was placed herself at the head of a new enterprize . 
This plan was far less painful to her feelings than that which had preceded it , since the concert was to be held in private houses , and young ladies of fashion were themselves to be performers ; but , though her thanks were grateful and sincere , her determination was immoveable . 
`` It is not , '' she said , `` believe me , Madam , from false notions of pride , that , because I , alone , am to be paid , I decline so honourable a method of extricating myself from my present difficulties : my pride , on the contrary , urges me to every exertion that may lead to self-dependence : but who is permitted to act by the sole guidance of their own perceptions and notions ? 
At the name of Lady Aurora , Ellis entreated some explanation ; but Miss Arbe , without deigning to make any , hurried to her carriage . 
Miss Bydel , pouring forth a volley of interrogatories upon the intentions of Ellis , her expectations , and her means , would have remained ; but she reaped so little satisfaction that , tired , at length , herself , she retreated ; though not till she had fully caught the attention of Ellis , by the following words : `` I have been very ready , Mrs. Ellis , to serve you in your distress ; but I hope you wo n't forget that I always intended to be disbursed by your music teaching : so , if you do n't do that any more , I ca n't see why you wo n't do this ; that you may pay me . '' 
She then took leave . 
To judge me , she cried , by my present appearance , my resisting this offer must be attributed to impertinence , ingratitude , or folly . 
The sole hope of Ellis for extrication from these difficulties hung now upon Mr. Giles Arbe ; whom she had begun to apprehend had forgotten his promise , when , to her great relief , he appeared . 
He looked vexed and disconcerted ; sat down without answering the civilities of her reception ; sucked , for some minutes , the head of his stick ; and then began talking to himself ; from time to time ejaculating little broken phrases aloud , such as : `` It i 'n' t right ! 
Next , he related , he went to Miss Brinville , who , with great displeasure , denied , at first , having ever been a scholar of Miss Ellis . 
The young woman had been with her , indeed , she said , to chuse her a harp , or tune it , or something of that sort ; but she had found her so entirely unequal to giving any lessons ; and the professor , her present master , had so completely convinced her of the poor young woman 's ignorance , that it was quite ridiculous to suppose having seen any body , once or twice , for an odd hour or two , was sufficient for being considered as their scholar . 
His next visit was to Lady Kendover ; by whom he was received , he said , with such politeness , and by whom Ellis was mentioned with so much consideration , that he thought he should quite oblige her ladyship , by giving her an opportunity to serve a young person of whom she spoke with so much civility . 
cried Ellis , while tears gushed fast into her eyes , with strong , but delighted emotion : `` Mr. Giles , I see , now , what path I may pursue ; and you , who are so benevolent , will aid me on my way . '' 
She then entreated him , through the medium of Lady Barbara , to supplicate that the beneficence of Lady Aurora might be exerted in the payment of the debts already contracted ; not in obviating new ones , which she felt no disposition to incur . 
Ellis changed colour , and , with far deeper emotion , now walked about her room , now seated herself , now hid her face with her hands , and now ejaculated , `` How -- how shall I decide ! '' 
She then enquired from whom Mr. Giles had received the two guineas and the half guinea which he had put upon the table . 
Mr. Tedman , she said , was the only person of the whole set who owed her nothing ; but to whom , on the contrary , she was herself indebted ; not having yet had an opportunity to clear what he had advanced . 
She then begged him to take back the money ; with a promise that she would speedily settle what yet remained undischarged of the former account . 
He blamed her warmly . 
`` Perhaps , '' she said , `` I may be wrong ! 
-- '' She paused , ruminated , irresolute , and dissatisfied ; and then said , `` Were I to consult only myself , my own feelings , whatever they may be , should surely and even instantly , give way , to what is due to others ; but I must not imagine that I shall be doomed for ever to this deplorable condition ; and those to whom I may yet belong , may blame -- may resent any measures that may give publicity to my situation . 
she cried , `` justice , reason , common sense , all seem against me ! 
Again , painfully , she paused ; and then , sighing bitterly , added , `` Tell Miss Arbe , Sir , -- acquaint Lady Kendover , -- let Lady Aurora be informed , -- that I submit to their opinions , and accept , upon their own terms , their benevolent assistance . '' 
He held out his hand to her , now , with exulting approbation ; but she seemed overwhelmed with grief , apprehension , and regret . '' 
He looked at her with surprise . 
-- for me , at least , '' she cried , `` I know not ! 
Heavily she sighed ; yet , definitively , she agreed , that , since , unhappily , the debts were incurred , and her want of credit made immediate payment necessary , she could not , herself , in combining the whole of her intricate situation , find any plan more eligible than that of performing at this subscription-concert . 
Ellis was called upon with the rest ; for in the name of Miss Ellis , and for the sake and the benefit of Miss Ellis , all the orders were given , all the measures were taken , and all the money was to be raised : yet in no one point had Ellis been consulted ; and she would hardly have known that a scheme which owed to her it 's name , character , and even existence , was in agitation , but from the diligence with which Miss Arbe ordered the restoration of the harp ; and from the leisure which that lady now found , in the midst of her hurries , for resuming her lessons . 
Ellis , from the time that she had agreed to this scheme , devoted herself completely to musical studies ; and the melodious sounds drawn forth from her harp , in playing the exquisite compositions of the great masters , with whose works her taste , industry , and talents had enriched her memory , softened her sorrows , and soothed her solitude . 
Her vocal powers , also , she cultivated with equal assiduity ; and she arrived at the house of Miss Sycamore , where the first rehearsal was to be held , calmly prepared to combat every internal obstacle to exertion , and to strive , with her best ability , to obtain the consideration which she desired , from the satisfaction , rather than solely from the indulgence of her auditors . 
But the serenity given , at least assumed , by this resolution , was suddenly shaken through a communication made to her by Mr. Giles Arbe , who was watching for her upon the stair-case , that fifty pounds had been deposited , for her use , with his cousin , Miss Arbe , by Lady Aurora Granville . 
The situation of Ellis was awkward and painful ; for while the offences by which she had so lately been wounded , made her most want encouragement , the suspicions which she had excited seemed to distance all her acquaintance . 
No mistress of the house deigned to receive , or notice her ; and though , as a thing of course , she would herself have approached any other than Miss Sycamore , there was a lively , yet hardy insolence in that young lady , which she had not courage to encounter . 
Embarrassed , irresolute , Ellis stopt nearly upon her entrance , vainly seeking some kind eye to invite her on ; but how advance , where no one addressed , or seemed to know her ? 
thought she , why will you make your power , your wealth , your state , thus repulsive to all who can not share them ? 
While thus , sorrowingly , if not indignantly , looking round , and seeing herself unnoticed , if not avoided , even by those whose favour , whose kindness , whose rising friendship , had most eminently distinguished her , since the commencement of her professional career , she recollected the stories of her disguises , and of her surreptitious name , which were spread abroad : her justice , then , felt appeased ; and she ceased to resent , though she could not to grieve , at the mortification which she experienced . 
-- Is Miss Ellis come ? '' 
And , skipping to the place where Ellis was seated , expressed the most lively pleasure at her sight , mixt with much affectionate regret at their long separation . 
Excited by the example of Lady Kendover , various ladies , who , from meeting Ellis at the houses of her several scholars , had been struck with her merit , and had conceived a regard for her person , flocked towards her , as if she had now first entered the room . 
Ellis , whose hopes were all alive , that she might spare herself this hazardous experiment , demanded a previous conference ; but Miss Arbe was deaf and blind to whatever interfered with the vivacity of her proceedings ; and Ellis , not daring , without more certain authority than that of Mr. Giles Arbe , to proclaim her intended change of measures , was forced to give way ; though with an unwillingness so palpable , that she inspired general pity . 
Mr. Scope himself would have handed her to the orchestra , but that he apprehended such a step might be deemed an action of gallantry , and as such affect the public opinion of his morals ; and Mr. Giles Arbe would have been enchanted to have shewn her his high regard , but that the possibility of so doing , occurred to him only when the opportunity was past . 
Sir Marmaduke Crawley , however , studiously devoted to the arts , set apart , alike , the rumours which , at one time , raised Ellis to a level with the rest of the company , and , at another , sunk her beneath their domestics ; and , simply considering her claim to good breeding and attention , as an elegant artist , courteously offered her his hand . 
But Ellis was seized with a faint panic that disordered her whole frame ; terrour took from her fingers their elasticity , and robbed her mind and fancy of those powers , which , when free from alarm , gave grace and meaning to her performance : and , what to herself she had played with a taste and an expression , that the first masters would most have admired , because best have understood , had now neither mark , spirit , nor correctness : while her voice was almost too low to be heard , and quite too feeble and tremulous to give pleasure . 
The first insinuated , that Ellis thought it fine and lady-like to affect being frightened ; the second saw , and compassionated , in her failure , the natural effect of distressed modesty , mingled with wounded pride . 
Nevertheless , her fervent , but indiscriminating juvenile admirer , Lady Barbara , echoed by Selina , enthusiastically exclaimed , `` How delightfully she plays and sings ! 
Miss Arbe , well aware that fear alone had thus `` unstrung the lyre '' of Ellis , secretly exulted , that the Dilettanti would possess her name and services for their institution , without her superiority . 
Ellis would have declined giving her authority ; but Miss Arbe , without scruple , named Mr. Giles . 
when will the hour come -- '' She checked her speech ; but could not check the brilliant colour , the brightened countenance , which indicated the gay ideas that internally consoled her recent mortification . 
`` And why , Madam , '' she soon more composedly , yet with spirit , added , `` might I not be indulged with the knowledge of her ladyship 's goodness to me ? 
She then earnestly requested to receive what was so kindly meant for her succour , upon milder terms than such as did violence to her disposition , and were utterly unfitting to her melancholy situation . 
Her eyes here glanced anxiously towards Lady Barbara ; who , unable to resist their appeal , sprang from Lady Kendover , into the little circle that was now curiously forming around Ellis ; eagerly saying , `` Miss Ellis , 't is to me that Lady Aurora wrote that sweet letter , about the fifty pounds ; and I 'll send for it to shew you this moment . '' 
Laughing and delighted , she was dancing away ; but Lady Kendover , gently stopping her , said , `` You are too young , yet , my dear , to be aware of the impropriety of making private letters public . '' 
`` Well , then , at least , Miss Ellis , '' she cried , `` I will tell you that one paragraph , for I have read it so often and often that I have got it by heart , it 's so very beautiful ! 
` You will entreat Miss Arbe , my dear Lady Barbara , since she is so good as to take the direction of this concert-enterprize , to employ this little loan to the best advantage for Miss Ellis , and the most to her satisfaction . 
Loan I call it , for Miss Ellis , I know , will pay it , if not in money , at least in a thousand sweetnesses , of a thousand times more value . 
''' Ellis , touched with unspeakable pleasure , was forced to put her hand before her eyes . 
``` Do n't let her consult Miss Ellis about its acceptance . 
Miss Ellis will decline every thing that is personal ; and every thing that is personal is what I most wish to present to her . 
''' Tears now rolled in resistless streams down the cheeks of Ellis , though from such heartfelt delight , that her eyes , swimming in liquid lustre , shone but more brightly . 
Revived , re-animated , enchanted , Ellis now , with grace , with modesty , yet with firmness , renewed her request to Miss Arbe ; who , assuming a lively air , though palpably provoked and embarrassed , answered , that Miss Ellis did not at all understand her own interest ; and declared that she had taken the affair in hand herself , merely to regulate it to the best advantage ; adding , `` You shall see , now , the surprise I had prepared for you , if that blabbing old cousin of mine had not told you every thing before hand . '' 
`` Now , '' she cried , `` Miss Ellis , I hope I shall have the good fortune to please you ! 
The gown was a sarcenet of a bright rose-colour ; but its hue , though the most vivid , was pale to the cheeks of Ellis , as she repeated , `` A gown , Madam ? 
While Ellis hesitated what to reply , to a measure which , thus conducted , and thus announced , seemed to her unequivocally impertinent , the packet itself was surrounded by an eager tribe of females , and five or six voices broke forth at once , with remarks , or animadversions , upon the silk . 
said Miss Di ; `` but I should sooner take her for my wax-doll , when she 's all so pinky winky . '' 
As our uniform is fixed to be white , with violet-ornaments , it was my thought to beg Miss Arbe would order something of this shewy sort for Miss Ellis ; to distinguish us Dilettanti from the artists . '' 
It was not Ellis alone who felt the contemptuous haughtiness of this speech ; the men all dropt their eyes ; and Lady Barbara expressively exclaimed , `` Miss Ellis ca n't help looking as beautiful and as elegant as an angel , let her dress how she will ! '' 
It was not that she thought better of the scheme , but that it appeared to her less formidable ; her original determination , therefore , to make her best exertions , returned with more effect , and she executed a little prelude with precision and brilliancy ; and then accompanied herself in a slow and plaintive air , with a delicacy , skill , and expression , at once touching and masterly . 
Her situation was mysterious , and seemed open , at times , to the most alarming suspicions ; though the unequivocal regularity and propriety of her conduct , snatched her from any positive calumny . 
Yet neither this , nor the most striking talents , could have brought her forward , even for exhibition , into such an assembly , but for the active influence of Miss Arbe ; who , shrewd , adroit , and vigilant , never lost an opportunity to serve herself , while seeming to serve others . 
Nevertheless , Ellis , after a performance which , if fairly heard , and impartially judged , must have given that warm delight that excites `` spiritstirring praise , '' was heard in silence ; though had a single voice been raised in her favour , nearly every voice would have joined in chorus . 
But her patroness was otherwise engaged , and Lady Barbara was gone ; no one , therefore , deemed it prudent to begin . 
cried Miss Arbe , with vivacity : `` her ladyship 's sending it for that one performer , has induced me to make this very arrangement ; for , to tell you the truth , if Lady Aurora had not been so considerate for you , the whole scheme must have been demolished ; and if so , poor Miss Ellis ! 
Then , with a volubility that shewed , at once , her fear of expostulation , and her haste to have done , she sought to explain that , without the necessary preparations , there could be no concert ; without a concert Miss Ellis could not be known ; without being known , how could she procure any more scholars ? 
pray help me to persuade Miss Ellis to favour us with one more air . '' 
Here , her melancholy and distressed feelings again marred her performance ; she scarcely knew what she played , nor how she sung ; her execution lost its brilliancy , and her expression its refined excellence : but Miss Arbe , conscious of the cause , and alarmed lest any appeal to Lady Aurora should sully her own character of patroness , hoped , by the seductive bribery of flattery , to stifle complaint . 
The party broke up : the company dispersed ; and the poor , unconsidered , unaided protege , dejectedly left the house , at the same moment that it was quitted triumphantly , by her vain , superficial , unprotecting patroness . 
Discouraged and disgusted as Ellis returned from this rehearsal , the sad result of her reflections , upon all that had passed , and upon her complicated difficulties , with her debtors and creditors , served but to convince her of the necessity of perseverance in what she had undertaken ; and of patience in supporting whatever that undertaking might require her to endure . 
From the effects of a hard shower of rain , in which she had been caught , while returning from the first rehearsal , she was seized with a hoarseness , that forced her to decline her own vocal performance at the second . 
-- `` So she must have a cold ? 
Having no means to obviate similar injustice for the future , but by chacing the subject of suspicion , the dread of public disapprobation , to which she was now first awakened , made her devote her whole attention to the cure of her little malady . 
Hitherto , a desire to do well , that she might not displease or disappoint her few supporters , had been all her aim ; but sarcasms , uttered with so little consideration , in this small party , represented to her the disgrace to which her purposed attempt made her liable , in cases of sickness , of nervous terrours , or of casual inability , from an audience by which she could be regarded only as an artist , who , paid to give pleasure , was accountable for fulfilling that engagement . 
She trembled at this view of her now dependant condition ; and her health which , hitherto , left to nature , and the genial vigour of youth , had disdained all aid , and required no care , became the first and most painful object of her solicitude . 
She durst not venture to walk out except in the sun-shine ; she forbore to refresh herself near an open window ; and retreated from every unclosed door , lest humidity , or the sharpness of the wind , or a sudden storm , should again affect her voice ; and she guarded her whole person from the changing elements , as sedulously as if age , infirmity , or disease , had already made her health the slave of prudential forethought . 
These precautions , though they answered in divesting her of a casual and transient complaint , were big with many and greater evils , which threatened to become habitual . 
The faint warmth of a constantly shut up apartment ; the total deprivation of that spring which exercise gives to strength , and fresh air to existence , soon operated a change in her whole appearance . 
Her frame grew weaker ; the roses faded from her cheeks ; she was shaken by every sound , and menaced with becoming a victim to all the tremors , and all the languors of nervous disorders . 
she cried , how little do we know either of the labours , or the privations , of those whose business it is to administer pleasure to the public ! 
Alarmed , now , for her future and general health , she relinquished this dangerous and enervating system ; and , committing herself again to the chances of the weather , and the exertions of exercise , was soon , again , restored to the enjoyment of her excellent constitution . 
Meanwhile , the reproaches of Mr. Giles Arbe , for her seeming neglect of her own creditors , who had applied for his interest , constrained her to avow to him the real and unfeeling neglect which was its cause . 
Accordingly , at the next rehearsal , -- for , as the relation of Miss Arbe , he was admitted to every meeting -- he took an opportunity , upon observing two or three of the scholars of Ellis in a group , to bustle in amongst them ; and , pointing to her , as she sat upon a form , in a distant corner , `` Do but look , '' he said , `` at that pretty creature , ladies ! 
Why do n't you pay her what you owe her ? 
She wants the money very much , I assure you . '' 
Ellis , who was within hearing , alarmed to observe that , in these last two phrases , he looked full at Miss Sycamore and Miss Brinville , upon whose conduct towards herself she had confidentially entrusted him with her feelings , endeavoured to make him some sign to be upon his guard : though , as neither of those two ladies had the misfortune to possess sufficient modesty to be aware of their demerits , they might both have remained as secure from offence as from consciousness , if her own quick fears had as completely escaped notice . 
But , when Mr. Giles perceived her uneasiness , he called out , `` Do n't be frightened , my pretty lady ! 
Severely as Ellis dreaded the hour of exhibition , a delay that , in it 's obvious consequences , could only render it more necessary , gave her no satisfaction . 
The relief which , in other circumstances , this defection might have given to her spiritis , she was now incapable of enjoying ; for though Miss Arbe rather abused than fulfilled the functions of a patroness , Ellis immediately experienced , that even the most superficial protection of a lady of fashion , could not , without danger , be withdrawn from the indigent and unsupported . 
Miss Matson began wondering , with a suspicious air , what was become of Miss Arbe ; the young work-women , when Ellis passed them , spared even the civility of a little inclination of the head ; and the maid of the house was sure to be engaged , on the very few occasions on which Ellis demanded her assistance . 
Ellis but too easily comprehended , that the ruin of her credit and consequence in private families , would follow the uselessness of her services to her patroness . 
The prosecution , therefore , of the concert-scheme , which she had so much disliked in its origin , became now her own desire , because her sole resource . 
The next morning , while she was busy in copying the MS. , the customary sound of the carriage and voice of Miss Arbe , struck her ears , and struck them , for the first time , with pleasure . 
for you must know , my dear Miss Ellis , he has asked it of me himself ! 
And that , you know , would quite ruin you , poor Miss Ellis ! 
Ellis was alarmed , yet persisted in her negative . 
Piqued and offended , Miss Arbe hurried away ; declaring aloud , in passing through the shop , that people who were so determined to be their own enemies , might take care of themselves : that , for her part , she should do nothing more in the affair ; and only wished that Miss Ellis might find better means for paying her debts , and procuring herself a handsome maintenance . 
Personal interest which , it was equally clear , had excited it , now ran in another channel ; for if , by flattery or good offices , she could obtain gratis , the instuctions of an eminent professor , what could she want with Ellis , whom she had never sought , nor known , nor considered , but as a musical preceptress ? 
And , while Ellis hesitated how to answer , added , that the reason of her desiring a reply as quickly as possible , was an interview that she had just had with the other creditors , the preceding evening ; because she could not but let them know what had passed with Miss Arbe . 
`` For , after what I heard the lady say , Miss Ellis , as she went through my shop , I thought it right to follow her , and ask what she meant ; as it was entirely upon her account my giving you credit . 
And Miss Arbe replied to me , in so many words , ` Miss Ellis can pay you All , if she pleases : she has the means in her own power : apply to her , therefore , in whatever way you think proper ; for you may do her a great service by a little severity : but , for my part , remember , I take no further responsibility ' . 
Seized with terrour , Ellis now hastily took , from a locked drawer , the little packet of Harleigh , and , breaking the seal , was precipitately resolving to discharge every account directly ; when other conflicting emotions , as quick as those which had excited , checked her first impulse ; and , casting down , with a trembling hand , the packet , O let me think ! 
-- she internally cried ; -- surrounded with perils of every sort , let me think , at least , before I incur new dangers ! 
She then begged that Miss Matson would grant her a few minutes for deliberation . 
She hastily ran to him , and , with an air extremely displeased , seized those which she could reach ; and begged him instantly to deliver to her those which were still in his hand . 
Her discomposed manner brought him to the recollection of what he was doing ; and , making abundant apologies , `` I protest , '' he cried , `` I do n't know how it happened that I should meddle with your papers , for I meant only to take up a book ! 
Miss Matson , who , with the widest stare , had looked first at the bank-notes , and next at the embarrassed Ellis , began now to offer the most obsequious excuses for her importunity ; declaring that she should never have thought of so rudely hurrying such a young lady as Miss Ellis , but that the other creditors , who were really in but indifferent circumstances , were so much in want of their money , that she had not been able to quiet them . 
And then , begging that Miss Ellis would take her own time , she went , courtesying , down stairs . 
said Mr. Giles , when she was gone . 
She assured him that the money was simply a deposit left in her hands . 
-- '' she answered , much embarrassed ; `` but is that a reason that I should betray a trust ? '' 
He then hurried away , to give her no time to retract ; nodding and talking to himself in her praise , with abundant complacency ; and saying , as he passed through the shop , `` Miss Matson , you 'll be all of you paid to-morrow morning at farthest . 
Ellis remained in the deepest disturbance at the engagement into which she had entered . 
she cried , to what a resource dost thou drive me ! 
With a trembling hand , and revolting heart , she changed three of the notes , and discharged all the accounts at once ; Mr. Giles , eagerly and unbidden , having called up Miss Matson to take her share . 
Ellis now deliberated , whether she might not free herself from every demand , by paying , also , Miss Bydel ; but the reluctance with which she had already broken into the fearful deposit , soon fixed her to seal up the remaining notes entire . 
-- Yet should any one who has ever seen me ... '' She shuddered ; a nervous horrour took possession of her whole frame ; but she soon forced herself to revive , and assume new courage , upon hearing Mr. Giles , from the landing-place , again call Miss Matson ; and bid all her young women , one by one , and the two maid-servants , hurry up stairs directly , with water and burnt feathers . 
Ellis made every enquiry in her power , of who was at Brighthelmstone ; and begged Mr. Giles to procure her a list of the company . 
When she had read it , she became more tranquil , though not less sad . 
Miss Arbe received the concession with infinite satisfaction ; and introduced Ellis , as her protege , to her new favourite ; who professed himself charmed , that the presentation of so promising a subject , to the public , should be made at his benefit . 
`` And now , Miss Ellis , '' said Miss Arbe , `` you will very soon have more scholars than you can teach . 
This was not a species of reasoning to offer consolation to Ellis ; but she suppressed the disdain which it inspired ; and dwelt only upon the hoped accomplishment of her views , through the private teaching which it promised . 
She was putting on her hat , meaning to be particularly early in her attendance , that she might place herself in some obscure corner , before any company arrived ; to avoid the pain of passing by those who knowing , might not notice , or noticing , might but mortify her ; when one of the young work-women brought her intelligence , that a gentleman , just arrived in a post chaise , requested admittance . 
she repeated , with anxiety : -- `` tell him , if you please , that I am engaged , and can see no company . '' 
-- she murmured to herself , pursued ? 
-- and then began , but checked an inquiry , whether there were any private door by which she could escape : yet , pressed by the necessity of appearing at the rehearsal , after painfully struggling for courage , she faintly articulated , `` Let him come up stairs . '' 
The young woman descended , and Ellis remained in breathless suspense , till she heard some one tap at her door . 
She could not pronounce , Who 's there ? 
but she compelled herself to open it ; though without lifting up her eyes , dreading to encounter the object that might meet them , till she was roused by the words , `` Pardon , pardon my intrusion ! '' 
and perceived Harleigh gently entering her apartment . 
She started , -- but it was not with terrour ; she came forward , -- but it was not to escape ! 
The colour which had forsaken her cheeks , returned to them with a crimson glow ; the fear which had averted her eyes , was changed into an expression of even extatic welcome ; and , clasping her hands , with sudden , impulsive , irresistible surprise and joy , she cried , `` Is it you ? 
Surprise now was no longer her own , and her joy was participated in yet more strongly . 
Harleigh , who , though he had forced his way , was embarrassed and confused , expecting displeasure , and prepared for reproach ; who had seen with horrour the dismay of her countenance ; and attributed to the effect of his compulsatory entrance the terrified state in which he found her ; Harleigh , at sight of this rapid transition from agony to delight ; at the flattering ejaculation of `` Is it you ? '' 
and the sound of his own name , pronounced with an expression of even exquisite satisfaction ; -- Harleigh in a sudden trance of irrepressible rapture , made a nearly forcible effort to seize her hand , exclaiming , `` Can you receive me , then , thus sweetly ? 
Can you forgive an intrusion that -- '' when Ellis recovering her self-command , drew back , and solemnly said , `` Mr. Harleigh , forbear ! 
Harleigh reluctantly , yet instantly desisted ; but the pleasure of so unhoped a reception still beat at his heart , though it no longer sparkled in her eyes : and though the enchanting animation of her manner , was altered into the most repressing gravity , the blushes which still tingled , still dyed her cheeks , betrayed that all within was not chilled , however all without might seem cold . 
Checked , therefore , but not subdued , he warmly solicited a few minutes conversation ; but , gaining firmness and force every instant , she told him that she had an appointment which admitted not of procrastination . 
-- 'T is that fatal -- or , rather , let me hope , that happy , that seasonable information , which I received last night , in a letter containing a bill of the concert , from Ireton , that has brought me hither ; -- that impelled me , uncontrollably , to break through your hard injunctions ; that pointed out the accumulating dangers to all my views , and told me that every gleam of future expectation -- '' Ellis interrupted him at this word : he entreated her pardon , but went on . 
`` Since you know , Sir , '' cried she , with quickness , `` my appointment , you must be sensible I am no longer mistress of my time . 
She could enter , she said , into no discussion ; and prepared to depart . 
A sigh burst from her heart , but she strove to look unmoved . 
cried she , hastily : `` if Miss Joddrel were not in existence , -- '' she checked herself , and sighed more deeply ; but , presently added , `` yet , surely , Miss Joddrel were cause sufficient ! '' 
-- '' She interrupted him . 
-- Why , why , '' continued she , in a tone less firm , `` why will you force from me such ungrateful words ? 
Ellis blushed deeply as she answered , `` If I depended , Sir , upon you , -- if you were responsible for my actions ; or if your own fame , or name , or sentiments were involved in my conduct . 
She opened the door . 
she said , `` my own repugnance to this measure makes me but too easily conceive the objections to which it may be liable ! 
and if you , so singularly liberal , if even you -- '' She stopt ; but Harleigh , not less encouraged by a phrase thus begun , than if she had proceeded , warmly continued . 
She was now departing . 
He caught her gown , but , upon her stopping , instantly let it go . 
Pale and affrighted , `` Mr. Harleigh , '' she cried , `` is it to you I must owe a scene that may raise wonder and surmises in the house , and aggravate distresses and embarrassments which , already , I find nearly intolerable ? '' 
Shocked and affected , he shut the door , and would impetuously , yet tenderly , have taken her hand ; but , upon her shirnking back , with displeasure and alarm , he more quietly said , `` Pardon ! 
she began , with an emotion that almost instantly subsided , and she added , `` Yet of what consequence to you ought to be my sensations , my opinions ? '' 
`` I am : '' she answered , without looking at him , but calmly . 
He bowed , with an air that relinquished all further attempt to detain her ; but which shewed him too much wounded to speak . 
Carefully still avoiding his eyes , she was moving off ; but , when she touched the lock of the door , he exclaimed , `` Will you not , at least , before you go , allow me to address a few words to you as a friend ? 
`` One word , -- one little word , -- and I will torment you no longer : is it to pre-engagement -- '' Her face was averted , and her hand again was placed upon the lock of the door . 
He now trembled himself , and durst not resist her effort to open the door , as she replied , `` I have no heart ! 
She uttered this in a tone of gaiety , that would utterly have confounded his dearest expectations , had not a glance , with difficulty caught , shewed him a tear starting into her eye ; while a blush of fire , that defied constraint , dyed her cheeks ; and kept no pace with the easy freedom from emotion , that her voice and manner seemed to indicate . 
Her voice grew tremulous , and spoke displeasure ; but her eyes still sedulously shunned his , and still her cheeks were crimsoned . 
Harleigh paused a moment , looking at her with speechless anxiety ; but , upon an impatient motion of her hand that he would depart , he mildly said , `` As your friend , at least , you will permit me to see you again ? '' 
Ellis , shutting herself into her room , sunk upon a chair , and wept . 
She was soon interrupted by a message from Mr. Vinstreigle , to acquaint her that the rehearsal was begun . 
She felt unable to sing , play , or speak , and , sending an excuse that she was indisposed , desired that her attendance might be dispensed with for that morning . 
Ellis passed the rest of the day in solitary meditation upon the scene just related , her singular situation , and complicated difficulties . 
If , at times , her project yielded to the objections to which she had been forced to give ear , those objections were soon subdued , by the painful recollection of the unacknowledged , yet broken hundred pounds . 
To replace them , by whatever efforts , without giving to Harleigh the dangerous advantage of discovering what she owed to him , became now her predominant wish . 
Yet her distaste to the undertaking , her fears , her discomfort , were cruelly augmented ; and she determined that her airs should be accompanied only by herself upon the harp , to obviate any indispensable necessity for appearing at the rehearsals . 
To this effect , she sent , the next morning , a message that pleaded indisposition , to M. Vinstreigle ; yet that included an assurance , that he might depend upon her performance , on the following evening , at his concert . 
Once more , therefore , she consigned herself to practice ; but vainly she attempted to sing ; her voice was disobedient to her desires : she had recourse , however , to her harp ; but she was soon interrupted , by receiving the following letter from Harleigh . 
`` To Miss Ellis . 
`` A. H. '' This was not a letter to quiet the shaken nerves of Ellis , nor to restore to her the modulation of her voice . 
She read it with strong emotion , dwelling chiefly upon the phrase , `` long-beaten track of female timidity . '' 
she cried , delicacy is what he means , though he possesses too much himself to mark more strongly his opinion that I swerve from it ! 
He apologised for hastening her , in a calm and formal style , palpably intended for the hearing of the young woman ; but , upon shutting the door , and seeing the glistening eyes of Ellis , calmness and formality were at an end ; and , approaching her with a tenderness which he could not resist , `` You are afflicted ? '' 
-- '' He coloured , as if angry with himself even for the surmize ; and Ellis raised her eyes , with a vivacity that reproached the question ; but dropt them almost instantaneously . 
Ellis , who had been silent to recover the steadiness of her voice , now quietly answered , `` I am in no situation , Sir , for hazarding experiments . 
-- she sighed , but hurried on ; `` those , in whatever form you can present them , I must utterly disclaim and repel . 
Turning then , another way , she bid him good morning . 
Harleigh , inexpressibly disappointed , stood , for some minutes , suspended whether resentfully to tear himself away , or importunately to solicit again her confidence . 
The hesitation , as usual where hesitation is indulged in matters of feeling , ended in directing him to follow his wishes ; though he became more doubtful how to express them , and more fearful of offending or tormenting her . 
Yet in contrasting her desolate situation with her spirit and firmness , redoubled admiration took place of all displeasure . 
She cruelly wanted assistance ; a sigh escaped her at the very thought of kindness ; yet she rejected his most disinterested offers of aid ; evidently in apprehension lest , at any future period , he might act , or think , as one who considered himself to be internally favoured . 
His eyes directed her soon to the cause : the letter which she had cast into the fire , and from which , on his entrance , he had scrupulously turned his view , now accidentally caught it , by a fragment unburnt , which dropt from the stove upon the hearth . 
He had imagined that , whether she answered his letter or not , she would have weighed its contents , have guarded it for that purpose ; perhaps have prized it ! 
But , to see it condemned to annihilation ; to find her inexorably resolute not to listen to his representations ; nor , even in his absence , to endure in her sight what might bring either him or his opinions to her recollection ; affected him so deeply , that , nearly unconscious what he was about , he threw himself upon a chair , exclaiming , `` The illusion is past ! '' 
Ellis looked visibly touched and disturbed as she answered , `` I am very sensible , Sir , of the honour you do me , and of the value of your approbation : it would not be easy to me , indeed , to say -- unfriended , unsupported , nameless as I am ! 
`` You distress , you grieve me , '' cried Ellis , with an emotion which she could not repress , `` by these affecting , yet fruitless conflicts ! 
-- '' He spoke this in a tone so melancholy , yet so unopposingly respectful , that Ellis , resistlessly affected , put her hand to her head , and half , and almost unconsciously pronounced , `` Were my destiny fixed ... known even to myself ... '' She stopt , but Harleigh , who , slowly , and by hard self-compulsion , had moved towards the door , sprang back , with a countenance wholly re-animated ; and with eyes brightly sparkling , in the full lustre of hope and joy , exclaimed , `` It is not , then , fixed ? 
-- in a voice of attempted cheerfulness , but involuntary tremour , was pronounced by Ellis , as , hastily rising , she herself shut the door . 
He looked at Ellis , in taking this measure , and saw that , while she struggled to receive her visitors with calm civility , her air of impatience for his departure was changed , by this surprize , into confusion at his presence . 
He felt culpable for occasioning her so uneasy a sensation ; and , to repair it as much as might be in his power , assumed a disengaged countenance , and treated as a mark of good fortune , having chanced to enquire whether Miss Ellis had any commands for town , at the same time that Miss Bydel and Mr. Giles Arbe made their visit . 
Then , turning to Ellis , `` I hear , '' she continued , `` Mrs. Ellis , that all of the sudden , you are grown very rich . 
Mr. Giles , drawn by the silence of Ellis to a view of her embarrassment , became fearful that he had been indiscreet , and made signs to Miss Bydel to say no more upon the subject ; but Miss Bydel , by no means disposed , at this moment , to oblige him , went on . 
Ellis coloured ; but not so painfully as Harleigh , at the sight of her blushes , unattended by any refutation ; or any answer to this extraordinary assertion . 
Ellis , in the deepest embarrassment , knew not which way to turn her head . 
`` No , Sir , -- no , Mr. Giles , '' cried Ellis , hastily , and looking every way to avoid the anxious , enquiring , quick-glancing eyes of Harleigh : `` I did not ... I could not say ... '' she stopt , scarcely knowing what she meant either to deny or to affirm . 
Besides , who but a rich friend would leave you money in such a way as that , neither locked , nor tied , nor in a box , nor in a parcel ; but only in a little paper cover , directed For Miss Ellis , at her leisure ? '' 
At these words , which could leave no doubt upon the mind of Harleigh , that the money in question was his own ; and that that money , so often refused , had finally been employed in the payment of her debts , Ellis involuntarily , irresistibly , but most fearfully , stole a hasty glance at him ; with a transient hope that they might have escaped his attention ; but the hope died in its birth : the words , in their fullest meaning , had reached him , and the sensation which they produced filled her with poignant shame . 
But their checked vivacity checked not the feelings which illumined them , nor the alarm which they excited , when Ellis , urged by affright to snatch a second look , saw the brilliancy with which they had at first sought her own , terminate in a sensibility more touching ; saw that they glistened with a tender pleasure , which , to her alarmed imagination , represented the potent and dangerous inferences that enchanted his mind , at a discovery that he had thus essentially succoured her ; and that she had accepted , at last , however secretly , his succour . 
This view of new danger to her sense of independence , called forth new courage , and restored an appearance of composure ; and , addressing herself to Miss Bydel , `` I entreat you , '' she cried , `` Madam , to bear a little longer with my delay . 
The rest of the day was passed free from outward disturbance to Ellis ; and what she might experience internally was undivulged . 
The day now arrived which Ellis reluctantly , yet firmly , destined for her new , and hazardous essay . 
Resolute in her plan , she felt the extreme importance of attaining courage and calmness for its execution . 
She shut herself up in her apartment , and gave the most positive injunctions to the milliners , that no one should be admitted . 
The looks of Harleigh , as he had quitted her room , had told her that this precaution would not be superfluous ; and , accordingly , he came ; but was refused entrance : he wrote ; but his letters were returned unread . 
His efforts to break , served but to fix her purpose : she saw the expectations that he would feed from any concession ; and potent as had hitherto been her objections to the scheme , they all subsided , in preference to exciting , or passively permitting , any doubts of the steadiness of her rejection . 
Still , however , she could not practise : her voice and her fingers were infected by the agitation of her mind , and she could neither sing nor play . 
She could only hope that , at the moment of performance , the positive necessity of exertion , would bring with it , as so often is its effect , the powers which it requires . 
The tardiness of her resolution caused , however , such an accumulation of business , not only for her thoughts , but for her time , from the indispensable arrangements of her attire , that scarcely a moment remained either for the relief or the anxieties of rumination . 
She set off , therefore , with tolerable though forced composure , for the rooms , in the carriage of Miss Arbe ; that lady , once again , chusing to assume the character of her patroness , since as such she could claim the merit of introducing her to the public , through an obligation to her own new favourite , M. Vinstreigle . 
Re-assured by this account , Ellis again advanced , and was met by Mr. Vinstreigle ; who had given instructions to be called upon her arrival , and who , now , telling her that it was late , and that the concert was immediately to be opened , handed her to the orchestra . 
She insisted upon seating herself behind a violencello-player , and as much out of sight as possible , till necessity must , of course , bring her forward . 
From her dislike to being seen , her eyes seemed rivetted upon the music-paper which she held in her hand , but of which , far from studying the characters , she could not read a note . 
She received , with silent civility , the compliments of M. Vinstreigle ; and those of his band , who could approach her ; but her calmness , and what she had thought her determined courage , had been so shaken by personal alarm , and by the agitated supplications of Harleigh , that she could recover them no more . 
His desponding look , when he found her inexorable , pursued her ; and the foreign clothing , and foreign servant , of the man who , though deaf and dumb , had so marked and fixt her , rested upon her imagination , with a thousand vague fears and conjectures . 
In this shattered state of nerves , the sound of many instruments , loud however harmonious , so immediately close to her ears , made her start , as if electrified , when the full band struck up the overture , and involuntarily raise her eyes . 
The strong lights dazzled them ; yet prevented her not from perceiving , that the deaf and dumb man had planted himself exactly opposite to the place , which , by the disposition of the harp , was evidently prepared for her reception . 
Her alarm augmented : was he watching her from mere common curiosity ? 
To the trembling Ellis , it now seemed but a moment before she was summoned to her place , though four pieces were first performed . 
M. Vinstreigle would have handed her down the steps ; she declined his aid , hoping to pass less observed alone ; but the moment that she rose , and became visible , a violent clapping was begun by Sir Lyell Sycamore , and seconded by every man present . 
Even her attire , which , from the bright pink sarsenet , purchased by Miss Arbe , she had changed into plain white satin , with ornaments of which the simplicity shewed as much taste as modesty , contributed to the interest which she inspired . 
But , unused to being an object of tumultuous delight , the effect produced by such transports was the reverse of their intention ; and Ellis , ashamed , embarrassed , confused , lost the recollection , that custom demanded that she should postpone her acknowledgements till she arrived at her post . 
She stopt ; but in raising her eyes , as she attempted to courtesy , she was struck with the sight of her deaf and dumb tormentor ; who , in agitated watchfulness , was standing up to see her descend ; and whose face , from the full light to which he was exposed , she now saw to be masked ; while she discerned in his hand , the glitter of steel . 
There , with an air of command , that seemed the offspring of rightful authority , he charged every one to stand back , and give her air ; desired M. Vinstreigle to summon some female to her aid ; and , snatching from him a phial of salts , which he was attempting to administer , was gently bending down with them himself , when he perceived that she was already reviving : but the instant that he had raised her , what was his consternation and horrour , to hear a voice , from the assembly , call out : `` Turn , Harleigh , turn ! 
The last to quit the apartment in which this bloody scene had been performed , was Ellis ; who felt restored by fright for another , to the strength of which she had been robbed by affright for herself . 
Her sufferings , indeed , for Elinor , her grief , her horrour , had set self wholly aside , and made her forget all by which , but the moment before , she had been completely absorbed . 
To wander again alone , to seek strange succour , new faces , and unknown haunts ; to expose her helplessness , plead her poverty , and confess her mysterious , nameless situation ; even to risk delay in receiving the letter upon which hung all her ultimate expectations , seemed preferable to the danger of another interview , that might lead to the most horrible of catastrophes ; -- if , already , the danger were not removed by a termination the most tragic . 
To escape privately from Brighthelmstone , and commit to accident , since she had no motive for choice , the way that she should go , was , therefore , her determination . 
Her debts were all paid , save what their discharge had made her incur with that very Harleigh from whom she must now escape ; though to the resources which he had placed in her hands , she owed the liberation from her creditors , that gave her power to be gone ; and must owe , also , the means for the very flight which she projected from himself . 
Severely she felt the almost culpability of an action , that risked implications of encouragement to a persevering though rejected man . 
But the horrour of instigating self-murder conquered every other ; even the hard necessity of appearing to act wrong , at the very moment when she was braving every evil , in the belief that she was doing right . 
She ordered a post-chaise , in which she resolved to go one stage ; and then to wait at some decent house upon the road , for the first passing public vehicle ; in which , whithersoever it might be destined , she would proceed . 
At an early hour the chaise was ready ; and she was finishing her preparations for removal , when a tap at her chamber-door , to which , imagining it given by the maid , she answered , `` Come in , '' presented Harleigh to her affrighted view . 
she cried , turning pale with dismay , `` are you then fixed , Mr. Harleigh , to rob me of peace for life ? '' 
You are still , then , Sir , unmoved -- '' She stopt , and blushed , for the examining eyes of Harleigh said , `` Do you wish to see me conquered ? '' 
Pleased that she stopt , enchanted that she blushed , an expression of pleasure illumined his countenance , which instantly drew into that of Ellis a cold severity , that chilled , or rather that punished his rising transport . 
thought he , was it then but conscious modesty , not anxious doubt , that mantled in her cheek ? 
Ellis could not contest a statement which , thus explained , appeared to be just ; and , gratified by her concurrence , he no longer resisted her urgent injunctions that he would be gone . 
He tried , in quitting her , to seize and kiss her hand ; but she drew back , with an air not to be disputed ; and a look of reproach , though not of displeasure . 
Mechanically , rather than intentionally , she went to the window , when he had left her , whence she saw him cross the way , and then wistfully look up . 
She felt the most painful blushes mount into her cheeks , upon observing that he perceived her . 
She retreated like lightning ; yet could not escape remarking the animated pleasure that beamed from his countenance at this surprise . 
She sat down , deeply confused , and wept . 
The silence which she had guarded , relative to his former packet , from terrour of the conflicts to which such a subject might lead , had made him now , she imagined , suppose it not partially but completely expended . 
And can he think , she cried , that not alone I have had recourse , -- unacknowledged , yet essential recourse , -- to his generosity in my distress , but that I am contented to continue his pensioner ? 
She blushed ; but not in anger : she felt that it was from his view of her situation , not his notions of her character , that he pressed her thus to pecuniary obligation . 
She would not , however , even see the amount , or contents , of what he had sealed up , which she now enclosed , and sealed up herself , with the remaining notes of the first packet . 
The lines which he had written in the cover , she read a second time . 
If , indeed , she cried , he could become a dis-interested friend ! 
... She was going to read them again , but checked by the suggested doubt , -- the if , -- she paused a moment , sighed , felt herself blush , and , with a quick motion that seemed the effect of sudden impulse , precipitately destroyed them ; murmuring to herself , while brushing off with her hand a starting tear , that she would lose no time and spare no exertions , for replacing and returning the whole sum . 
Yet she was forced , with whatever reluctance , to leave the development of her intentions to the chances of opportunity ; for she knew not the address of Harleigh , and durst not risk the many dangers that might attend any enquiry . 
A short time afterwards , she received a letter from Selina , containing a summons from Elinor for the next morning . 
Ellis could not hesitate to comply with this demand , however terrified she felt at the prospect of the storm which she might have to encounter . 
The desperate state of her own affairs , called , nevertheless , for immediate attention ; and she decided to begin a new arrangement , by relinquishing the far too expensive apartment which Miss Arbe had forced her to occupy . 
Ellis looked after her with quick-awakened interest ; but she hastily mounted , palpably anxious to escape remark . 
Ellis knew well how to appreciate her interested and wavering civility ; yet availed herself of it to beg a recommendation to some decent house , where she might have a small and cheap chamber ; and again , to solicit her assistance in procuring some needle-work . 
At five o'clock , on the following morning , the house of Miss Matson was disturbed , by a hurrying message from Elinor , demanding to see Miss Ellis without delay . 
Ellis arose , with the utmost trepidation : it was the beginning of May , and brightly light ; and she accompanied the servant back to the house . 
She found all the family in the greatest disorder , from the return of another messenger , who had been forwarded to Mr. Harleigh , with the unexpected news that that gentleman had quitted Brighthelmstone . 
`` Why , then , '' said Ireton , `` should not Miss Ellis undertake the job ? 
Deaf , therefore , to the remonstrances of Ellis , upon whom she forced the letter , she sent for Mr. Naird , charged him to watch carefully by the side of her poor niece , desired to be called if any thing unhappy should take place ; and , complaining of a violent head-ache , retired to lie down . 
Ellis blushed , but was silent ; and Mrs. Golding , Elinor 's maid , came , soon after , to hasten Mr. Naird to her mistress ; who , persuaded , she said , by their non-appearance , that Mr. Harleigh had eloped with Miss Ellis , was preparing to dress herself ; and was bent to pursue them to the utmost extremity of the earth . 
Mr. Naird , then , entering the room , heard her in the agitated voice of feverish exultation , call out , `` Joy ! 
`` Is Harleigh , '' she cried , `` here too ? '' 
Ellis durst not reply ; nor , still less , deliver the letter ; which she dropt unseen upon a table . 
Her vehemence was then converted into derision , and , with a contemptuous laugh , `` You would make me believe , perhaps , '' she cried , `` that he has left Brighthelmstone ? 
No one venturing to speak , she again resolved to seek him in person ; convinced , she said , that , since Ellis remained , he could not be far off . 
She snatched the letter from Mr. Naird , blew it all around , as if to disperse the contagion of any foreign touch , and then , in a transport of delight , pressed it to her lips , to her heart , and again to her lips , with devouring kisses . 
She would not read it , she declared , till night : all she experienced of pleasure was too precious and too rare , not to be lengthened and enjoyed to its utmost possible extent ; yet , nearly at the same moment , she broke the seal , and ordered every one to quit the room ; that the air which would vibrate with words of Harleigh , should be uncontaminated by any breath but her own . 
They all obeyed ; though Mr. Naird , fearing what might ensue , stationed himself where , unsuspectedly , he could observe her motions . 
Eagerly , rapidly , and without taking breath till she came to the conclusion , she then read aloud the following lines : `` To MissJoddrel . 
Ellis , shuddering , entreated him to make some speedy effort for her preservation . 
In vain Ellis endeavoured to give him an hint , that such a question might lead her to surmise her danger : the perceptions of Elinor were too quick to allow time for retraction or after precaution : the deepest damask flushed her pallid cheeks ; her eyes became wildly dazzling , and she impetuously exclaimed , `` The time , then , is come ! 
An impression so potent , made by the no longer doubted , and quick approximation of that Death , which , in the vigour and pride of Life , and Health , she had so passionately invoked , forcibly and fearfully affected Ellis ; who uttered a secret prayer , that her own preparations for an event , which though the most indispensably common , could never cease to be the most universally tremendous of mortality , might be frequent enough , and cheerful enough , to take off horrour from its approach , without substituting presumption . 
When he re-appeared , she changed colour , and covered her face with her hand ; but , soon removing it , and shewing a steady countenance , she raised her head . 
When , however , she perceived that he was alone ; and , after looking vainly towards the door , found that no one followed , she tremulously said , `` Will he not , then , come ? '' 
This , Mr. Naird said , might last till late the next day ; Ellis , therefore , promising to be ready upon any summons , returned to her lodging . 
`` By no means , Ma'am , from you , '' she replied ; `` you , Miss Ellis , who have been so strongly recommended ; and protected by so many of our capital gentry ; but what I mean is this . 
Ellis , recoiling from this preference , uttered words the most benevolent that she could suggest , of the unknown person who had excited her compassion : but Miss Matson gave them no attention . 
`` When one has nothing better to do with one 's rooms , Ma'am , '' she said , `` it 's sometimes as well , perhaps , to let them to almost one does not know who , as to keep them uninhabited ; because living in them airs them ; but that 's no reason for letting them to one 's own disadvantage , if one can do better Now this person here , Ma'am , besides being poor , which , poor thing , may be she ca n't help ; and being a foreigner , which , you know , Ma'am , is no great recommendation ; -- besides all this , Miss Ellis , she has some very suspicious ways with her , which I ca n't make out at all ; she goes abroad in a morning , Ma'am , by five of the clock , without giving the least account of her haunts . 
Ellis , disgusted , bid her good night ; and , filled with pity for a person who seemed still more helpless and destitute than herself , resolved to see her the next day , and endeavour to offer her some consolation , if not assistance . 
Before , however , this pleasing project could be put into execution , she was again , nearly at day break , awakened by a summons from Selina to attend her sister , who , after quietly reposing many hours , had started , and demanded Harleigh and Ellis . 
Ellis obeyed the call with the utmost expedition , but met the messenger returning to her a second time , as she was mounting the street which led to the lodging of Mrs. Maple , with intelligence that Elinor had almost immediately fallen into a new and sound sleep ; and that Mr. Naird had ordered that no one should enter the room , till she again awoke . 
Glad of this reprieve , Ellis was turning back , when she perceived , at some distance , Miss Matson 's new lodger . 
This was not easy ; for though the light feet of Ellis might soon have overtaken the quick , but staggering steps of the apparently distressed person whom she pursued , she observed her to be in a state of perturbation that intimidated approach , as much as it awakened concern . 
Her handkerchief was held to her face ; though whether to conceal it , or because she was weeping , could not readily be discovered : but her form and air penetrated Ellis with a feeling and an interest far beyond common curiosity ; and she anxiously studied how she might better behold , and how address her . 
The foreigner went on her way , looking neither to the right nor to the left , till she had ascended to the church-yard upon the hill . 
There stopping , she extended her arms , seeming to hail the full view of the wide spreading ocean ; or rather , Ellis imagined , the idea of her native land , which she knew , from that spot , to be its boundary . 
The beauty of the early morning from that height , the expansive view , impressive , though calm , of the sea , and the awful solitude of the place , would have sufficed to occupy the mind of Ellis , had it not been completely caught by the person whom she followed ; and who now , in the persuasion of being wholly alone , gently murmured , `` Oh ma chre patrie ! 
Her voice thrilled to the very soul of Ellis , who , trembling , suspended , and almost breathless , stood watching her motions ; fearing to startle her by an unexpected approach , and waiting to catch her eye . 
Ellis , neither advancing nor receding , saw her next move solemnly forward , to bend over a small elevation of earth , encircled by short sticks , intersected with rushes . 
Some of these , which were displaced , she carefully arranged , while uttering , in a gentle murmur , which the profound stillness of all around alone enabled Ellis to catch , `` Repose toi bien , mon ange ! 
How long these soft addresses , which seemed to soothe the pious petitioner , might have lasted , had she not been disturbed , is uncertain : but she was startled by sounds of more tumultuous sorrow ; by sobs , rather than sighs , that seemed burtsing forth from more violent , at least , more sudden affliction . 
She looked round , astonished ; and saw Ellis leaning over a monument , and bathed in tears . 
She arose , and , advancing towards her , said , in an accent of pity , `` Helas , Madame , vous , aussi , pleurez vous votre enfant ? 
cried Ellis , wiping her eyes , but vainly attempting to repress fresh tears ; `` t ` a-j cherche , t ` a-j attendue , t ` a-j si ardemment desire , pour te retrouver ainsi ? 
The fond embraces , and fast flowing tears of Ellis , evinced the keen sensibility with which she participated in the sorrows of this afflicted mother , whom she strove to draw away from the fatal spot ; reiterating the most urgent enquiries upon every other subject , to attract her , if possible , to yet remaining , to living interests . 
she cried : `` c'est ici que je te parlerai ; c'est ici que je t ' cuterai ; ici , o je passe les seuls momens que j' arrache  la misere , et au travail . 
At these words , all the fortitude hitherto sustained by Juliet , -- for the borrowed name of Ellis will now be dropt , -- utterly forsook her . 
Torrents of tears gushed from her eyes , and lamentations , the bitterest , broke from her lips . 
She could bear , she cried , all but this ; all but beholding the friend of her heart , the daughter of her benefactress , torn from the heights of happiness and splendour ; of merited happiness , of hereditary splendour ; to be plunged into such depths of distress , and overpowered with anguish . 
Here , by means of her new domestic , she obtained constant intelligence of the proceedings of Juliet ; and she was no sooner informed of the musical benefit , in which an air , with an harp-accompaniment , was to be performed by Miss Ellis , then she sent her new attendant to the assembly-room , to purchase a ticket . 
she cried , `` endowed with every power to set prejudice at defiance , and to shew and teach the world , that woman and man are fellow-creatures , you , too , are coward enough to bow down , unresisting , to this thraldom ? '' 
To save time , and obviate innumerable mortifications , Juliet , at first , employed a commissioner to carry home her work , and to deliver her bills ; but he returned always with empty messages , that if Miss Ellis would call herself , she should be paid . 
Yet when , with whatever reluctance , she complied , she was ordinarily condemned to wait in passages , or anti-chambers , for whole hours , and even whole mornings ; which were commonly ended by an excuse , through a footman , or lady 's maid , that Lady or Miss such a one was too much engaged , or too much indisposed , to see her till the next day . 
Nevertheless , if she mentioned that she had some pattern , or some piece of work , finished for any other lady to exhibit , she was immediately admitted ; though still , with regard to payment , she was desired to call again in the evening , or the next morning , with a new bill ; her old one happening , unluckily , to be always lost or mislaid ; and not seldom , while stopping in an anti-room , to arrange her packages , she heard exclamations of `` How amazingly tiresome is that Miss Ellis ! 
pestering one so , always , for her money ! '' 
`` Now , Miss Ellis ! '' 
However , what do you think , Miss Ellis ? 
No explanation , however , could be attempted : the attention of Juliet was called into another channel , by the sound of a titter , which led her to perceive Flora Pierson ; who , almost convulsed with delight at having surprised them , said that she had heard , from the shop-man , that Miss Ellis and Sir Jaspar were talking together upon the stairs , and she had stolen up the back way , and crept softly through one of the garrets , on purpose to come upon them unawares . 
`` So now , '' added she , nodding , `` we 'll go into my room , if you please , Miss Ellis ; for I have got something else to tell you ! 
cried Sir Jaspar , chucking her under the chin : `` How 's this , my daffodil ? 
cried Sir Jaspar , chucking her again under the chin , while she smiled and courtsied in return . 
Juliet would have re-entered her chamber ; but Flora , catching her gown , said , `` Why now , Miss Ellis , I bid you come to my room , if you please , Miss Ellis ; 'cause then I can show you my presents ; as well as tell you something . 
`` Now I 'll tell you what it is I 'm going to tell you , Miss Ellis . 
A Knight-Baronet , Miss Ellis ! 
`` O yes , I must see him , Miss Ellis , she cried ; `` for you ca n't think how ill he 'll take it , if I do n't . 
None in the world , he answered ; for he had Miss Matson 's leave to use it when she was out of a Sunday ; and he should be very glad if Miss Ellis would oblige him with her company . 
Mrs. Hart , entering , enquired , with surprize , why Miss Ellis had said that Miss Pierson was ill , when , on the contrary , she had never seen her look better . 
`` Well , now , Miss Ellis , '' cried Flora , whispering Juliet , `` did not I tell you , as plain as could be , 't was nothing but make believe ? '' 
Has she , Miss Ellis ? 
Do you , Miss Ellis ? '' 
O Miss Ellis ! 
She refused , therefore , to leave the house , while hoping for the return of Sir Lyell ; and continued her childish wailing and fretting , till accident led her eyes to a favourite little box ; when , her tears suddenly stopping , and her face brightening , she started up , seized , opened it , and , displaying a very pretty pair of ear-rings , exclaimed , `` Oh , I have never shewn you my presents , Miss Ellis ! 
Juliet was making enquiries of the young work-women , for a recommendation to some small lodging , when she was surprised by the receipt of a letter from Mrs. Pierson , soliciting her company immediately at Lewes ; where poor Flora , she said , was taken dangerously ill of a high fever , and was raving , continually , for Miss Ellis . 
A return postchaise , to the postilion of which Mrs. Pierson had given directions to call at Mrs. Hart 's at three o'clock in the afternoon , would bring her , for nearly nothing ; if she would have so much charity as to come and comfort the poor girl ; and Mrs. Pierson would find a safe conveyance back at night , if Miss Ellis could not oblige them by sleeping at the house : but she hoped that Mrs. Hart would not refuse to spare her from her work , for a few hours , as it might produce a favourable turn in the disorder . 
if it is not Miss Ellis ! '' 
Miss Ellis is taken suddenly ill ! '' 
`` Well , this is very kind of you , indeed , my dear , '' cried he , heartily shaking hands with her ; `` to be so glad to see me ; especially after the ungenteel way I was served in by your lodging-gentlewoman , making no more ceremony than refusing to let me up , under cover that you saw no gentlemen ; though I told her what a good friend I had been to you ; and how you learnt my darter the musics ; and how I used to bring you things ; and lend you money ; and that ; and how I was willing enough to do the like again , put in case you was in need : but I might just as well have talked to the post ; which huffed me a little , I own . '' 
`` Miss Ellis , I shall be so glad to have you come ! 
Flora , having now gathered that the quality meant Sir Lyell Sycamore , began dancing and singing , in a childish extacy of delight , that shewed her already , in idea , Lady Sycamore ; when , turning to Juliet with sudden and angry recollection , her smiles , gaiety , and capering gave way to a bitter fit of crying , and she exclaimed , `` But if he is here , it will be nothing to me , I dare say , if Miss Ellis is here the while ; for he wo n't look at me , almost , when she is by : will he ? 
`` Do n't be fretted , Miss Flora , '' cried young Gooch , soothingly ; `` for I shall ask Miss Ellis to dance myself ; for as I shall begin the hop , because of its being our own , I think I 've a good right to chuse my partner ; so do n't be fretted , so , Miss Flora , for you 'll have the Baronight left to you whether he will or no ! 
Flora , recovering her spirits , with the hopes of getting rid of her rival , whispered , `` If you 're in real right earnest , Miss Ellis , and do n't say you want to go , only to make a fool of me , which I shall take pretty unkind , I assure you ; why I can shew you the way so as you ca n't miss it , if you 'd never so . 
Only do n't tell mamma who 's here , for she do n't like persons of quality , she says , because of their bad designs ; but I 'm sure if she was to hear 'em talk as I do , she 'd think quite another opinion : would n't she ? '' 
Can she suppose me rascal enough , or fool enough , to make use of any violence ? 
so Miss Ellis ! 
I saw you together all the way I came ; so you may as well not try to make a ninny of me , Miss Ellis , for it i 'n' t so easy ! '' 
Catching a glimpse of the Baronet as he descended the road , she jumped over the style to run after him ; but seeing him look round , and , though he perceived her , quietly walk on , she stopt , crying bitterly : `` Very well , Miss Ellis ! 
-- I imagined it had been a person I had sent for ; but I must certainly be mistaken , as she does not come to me . 
Colouring and stammering , Juliet answered , that she had hoped Miss Joddrel would have saved her this explanation , by mentioning that she was called Miss Ellis . 
She then gave some parading directions , that Miss Ellis should want for nothing ; and , affecting not to perceive the palpable design of Juliet to decline these tardy attentions , graciously nodded her head , and passed into another room . 
The servants were ordered not to neglect Miss Ellis ; and Miss Ellis received permission to carry to her own apartment , any books from off the piano forte or tables , that might contribute to her amusement . 
Or , if she feared that any one of the party had failed to remark this augmentation of her household and of her power , she would retard the willing departure by some frivolous and vexatious commission ; as , `` Stop , Miss Ellis ; do pray tie this string a little tighter . '' 
When then , silently , and with difficulty forbearing from shrugging her shoulders , Juliet walked away , she was again stopt by , `` One moment , Miss Ellis ! 
And then , affably nodding , she would affect to be suddenly struck with something which she had already repeatedly seen , and cry , `` Well , I declare , that gown is not ugly , Miss Ellis ! 
Instead of `` Order the carriage , and let the child go out : '' Miss Ellis was called upon to play with him ; to tell him stories ; to shew him pictures ; to build houses for him with cards ; or to suffer herself to be dragged unmeaningly , yet wilfully and forcibly , from walk to walk in the garden , or from room to room in the house ; till tired , and quarrelling even with her compliance , he recruited his wearied caprices with sleep . 
Nor even here ended the encroachments upon her time , her attention , her liberty ; not only the spoilt child , but the favourite dog was put under her superintendence ; and she was instructed to take charge of the airings and exercise of Bijou ; and to carry him where the road was rough or miry , that he might not soil those paws , which had the exclusive privilege of touching the lady of the mansion ; and even of pulling , patting , and scratching her robes and attire for his recreation . 
`` Why do n't you take care of the child , Miss Ellis ? '' 
Lady Barbara Frankland no sooner perceived Juliet , and her distress , than , swift as the wind , breaking from her aunt , she flew forward to give her succour ; seizing the sturdy little assailant by his arms , when unprepared to defend himself , and twisting him , adroitly , from his prey ; exclaiming , `` You spoilt little wicked creature , beg pardon of that lovely Miss Ellis directly ! 
Juliet , colouring at this unqualified order , hesitated what to answer ; while Ireton , turning round , and pretending not to have heard what was said , maliciously made the man repeat , `` My lady , Sir , bid me tell Miss Ellis , that she must come to play and sing to the company . '' 
Selina then owned that she had been sent by Mrs. Ireton , to desire that Miss Ellis would make more haste . 
In minds of strong sensibility , arrogance rouses resentment more quickly even than injury : a message so gross , an affront so public , required , therefore , no deliberation on the part of Juliet ; and she was answering that she would make her preparations to depart ; when the Miss Cawleys , rushing suddenly upon her , exclaimed , with clamourous joy , `` She 's caught ! 
She 's caught ! 
-- or only Miss Ellis herself ? 
For , to be sure I must have done it : I take that for granted : she would not , certainly , think of going without leave , after I have sent for her . 
The warm-hearted young Lady Barbara , all pity and feeling for Juliet , here broke from her quiet and cautious aunt , and , with irrepressible eagerness , exclaimed , `` Mrs. Ireton , 't was Mr. Loddard , your own little naughty nephew , who deranged in that manner the dress of that elegant Miss Ellis . '' 
A civility such as this from Sir Jaspar , made all the elders of the company stare , and all the younger titter ; but the person the most surprized was Mrs. Ireton , who hastily called out , `` Miss Ellis would not do such a thing ! 
She could not do such a thing ! 
Miss Ellis can dispense with having an easy chair , and three cushions , I should presume ! 
`` Your politeness , Sir Jaspar , '' replied Mrs. Ireton , `` we all know ; and , if it were for one of my guests , -- but Miss Ellis can hardly desire , I should suppose , to see you drop down with fatigue , while she is reposing upon your arm-chair . 
Not that I pretend to know her way of thinking ! 
I do n't mean to have it imagined I have the honour of her confidence ; but I should rather suppose she could not insist upon turning you out of your seat , only to give you a paroxysm of the gout . '' 
But this was no sooner remarked by Lady Barbara Frankland , than , starting with vivacity from her vainly watchful aunt , she flew to her former instructress , crying , `` Have you taken nothing yet , Miss Ellis ? 
Abruptly , therefore , while they were standing together , and conversing , she called out , `` Is it possible , Miss Ellis , that you can see the child in such imminent danger , and stay there amusing yourself ? '' 
She declared herself , therefore , so extremely fearful lest some mischief should befal her little nephew , that she could not possibly trust him from the care of Miss Ellis . 
that lady 's very like Miss Ellis ! 
And , I protest , 'T is she herself ! 
`` Miss Ellis would be vastly obliging , certainly , '' with a supercilious brow , said Mrs. Ireton , `` to correct my nephew ! 
I do n't in the least mean to contest her abilities for superintending his chastisement ; not in the least , I assure you ! 
But only , as I never heard of my brother 's giving her such a carte blanche ; and as Ido n't recollect having given it myself , -- though I may have done it , again , perhaps , in my sleep ! 
-- I should be happy to learn by what authority she would be invested with such powers of discipline ? '' 
`` It would be immensely amiable of her , Sir , no doubt , '' said Mrs. Ireton , reddening , `` to take charge of the morals of my household ; immensely ! 
I only hope you will be kind enough to instruct the young person , at the same time , how she may hold her situation ? 
Why by doing her duty ! 
If she ca n't hold it by that , 'T is her duty to quit it . 
However , if you think her so poor , I can give you the satisfaction to shew you your mistake . 
She may n't , indeed , be very rich , poor lady , at bottom ; but still -- '' `` No , indeed , am I not ! '' 
`` But still , '' continued he , `` if she is poor , it is not for want of money ; nor for want of credit , neither ; for she has bank-notes in abundance in one of her work-bags ; and not a penny of them is her own ! 
which shews her to be a person of great honour . '' 
Mrs. Ireton , now , dying to give some vent to her spleen , darted the full venom of her angry eyes upon Juliet , and called out , `` You do n't see , I presume , Miss Ellis , what a condition Bijou has put that chair in ? ' 
Astonished and offended , `` permit me , Madam , '' cried Mrs. Ireton ; `` Permit me , Miss Ellis , -- if it is not taking too great a liberty with a person of your vast consequence , -- permit me to enquire who told you to go ? '' 
Already , the next morning , her resolution with regard to her nephew was reversed ; and , the child desiring the change of scene , she gave directions that Miss Ellis should prepare herself to take him in charge during the excursion . 
Miss Ellis , what do you lock yourself in for ? 
Miss Ellis , '' cried the Abigail , peeping curiously around , `` how droll for you to shut yourself in ! 
He can go very well on Miss Ellis 's lap . 
No one but Miss Ellis ; -- and for what else was Miss Ellis there ? 
Yet this fatigue and disgust might have been passed over , as local evils , had they ceased with the journey ; and had she then been at liberty to look at what remains of the venerable old castle ; to visit its ancient chapel ; to examine the genealogical records of the long gallery ; to climb up to the antique citadel , and to enjoy the spacious view thence presented of the sea : but she immediately received orders to give exercise to Bijou , and to watch that he ran into no danger : though Selina , who assiduously came forward to meet Mrs. Ireton , without apearing even to perceive Juliet , officiously took young Loddard in charge , and conducted him , with his aunt , to a large expecting party , long arrived , and now viewing the citadel . 
I am glad , however , to see that I do n't disturb you Miss Ellis ! 
Not that I mean to blame Miss Ellis . 
I hope I shall never be guilty of such injustice ; for how can Miss Ellis help it ? 
What could she do ? 
Where could she turn herself in so confined a place as this ? 
How could she possibly find any other spot for repose ? '' 
he had only , as Mr. Loddard afterwards informed me , stept into the Temple , with Miss Ellis . '' 
Miss Ellis can tell best . '' 
Lady Aurora now ran fleetly forward , exclaiming , in a voice of which the tender melody spoke the softness of her soul , `` Miss Ellis ! 
My dear Miss Ellis ! 
Miss Ellis ! 
sweet Miss Ellis ! 
We have been making a tour to the Isle of Wight and to Portsmouth ; and we did not intend to go to Brighthelmstone ; so that I had no hope , none upon earth , of such a felicity as that of seeing my dear Miss Ellis . 
I need not , I think , say it was not I who formed our plan , when I own that we had no design to visit Brighthelmstone , though I knew , from Lady Barbara Frankland , that Miss Ellis was there ? '' 
`` O Miss Ellis ! '' 
I must try to shew my admiration of Miss Ellis in a manner that Miss Ellis herself will not condemn . 
And will not that be by speaking to her without any disguise ? 
And will she not have the goodness to encourage me to do it ? 
For the world I would not take a liberty with her ; -- for the universe I would not hurt her ! 
-- but if it were possible she could condescend to give , ... however slightly , however imperfectly , some little explanation to ... to ... Mrs. Howel . 
`` No , my Miss Ellis , no ! 
I take , indeed , the deepest interest in your welfare ; but it is an interest that makes me proud to wait , not curious to hear ; proud , my Miss Ellis , to shew my confidence , my trust in your excellencies ! 
Speak , therefore , my Miss Ellis , though not to me ! 
And then , my Miss Ellis , who shall prevent , -- who will even desire to prevent my shewing to the whole world my sense of your worth , and my pride in your friendship ? '' 
Miss Ellis , my dear Miss Ellis ! 
With all your misfortunes , Miss Ellis , all your so undeserved griefs , you are yet quite a stranger to sorrow , compared to that which I should experience , if , through me , through my means , you should be exposed to any fresh injury ! '' 
`` Alas , my Miss Ellis ! 
And even my brother , though he would forfeit , I believe , his life in your defence ; and though he says he is sure you are all purity and virtue ; and though he thinks that there is nothing upon earth that can be compared with you ; -- even he has been brought to agree to the cruel resolution , that I should defer knitting myself closer to my Miss Ellis , till she is able to have the goodness to let us know -- '' She stopt , alarmed , for the cheeks of Juliet were suddenly dyed with the deepest crimson ; though the transient tint faded away as she pronounced , `` Lord Melbury ! 
`` O Miss Ellis ? 
An awkward general silence ensued , when Juliet , hearing other steps , was moving off ; but Lady Aurora , following , and holding out her hand , affectionately said , `` Are you going , Miss Ellis ? 
Lord Melbury , with an air of the most animated surprize and delight , darted forward also , exclaiming , `` Miss Ellis ! 
The moment I saw Mrs. Ireton I had some hope I might see , also , Miss Ellis -- but I had already give it up as delusory . '' 
With a courtesy , therefore , as foreign from her usual manners , as from her real feelings , she said , `` Miss Ellis , I am sure , will have the goodness to help me home with my two little companions ? 
She could not be so unkind as to leave the poor little things in the lurch ? '' 
Poor Miss Ellis looks so tired ! 
she whispered , `` how I 'll pinch him for being such a plague to that sweet Miss Ellis ! 
And by this means we shall lighten the fatigue of Mrs. Ireton , without increasing that of Miss Ellis . '' 
Do get me my furred clogs , Miss Ellis ; if I may venture to ask such a favour . 
`` Let me , Mrs. Ireton , '' eagerly cried Lord Melbury `` have the honour to be Miss Ellis 's deputy . '' 
Whatever may be your fears or objections to an intimacy , there can be none to common civility ; for though we know not what Miss Ellis has been , we see what she now is ; -- a pattern of elegance , sweetness , and delicacy . '' 
`` Miss Ellis will , I am sure , forgive my intrusion , '' he cried , `` when I tell her that it is made in the name of my sister . 
Enchanted by a prospect of some communication , Lord Melbury warmly exclaimed , `` Miss Ellis , I swear to you , by all that I hold most sacred , that if you will do me so great an honour as to trust me to be the bearer of your confidence to my sister , no creature upon earth , besides , shall ever , without your permission , hear what you may unfold ! 
-- '' Starting with a look nearly of horrour , `` You kill me , '' he cried , `` Miss Ellis , if you suspect me to be capable , a second time , of dishonouring the purest of sisters by forgetting the respect due to her friend ! 
After anxiously and with astonishment waiting some minutes , `` Why does Miss Ellis thus hesitate ? '' 
`` What can I say or do to remove her scruples ? '' 
Tell me , then , sweet Miss Ellis ! 
Red with constrained rage , yet assuming a courteous demeanour , `` Your lordship will pardon , she cried , `` my intrusion ; '' but Lady Aurora is so delicate , that I am always uneasy at keeping her ladyship out late . '' 
`` How shall I ever endure myself again , should Miss Ellis withdraw her kind promise of communication , in resentment of an acquiescence in quitting her , for which already I begin almost to disdain myself ? 
Yet my consent was granted to two of the purest of her admirers and well wishers . 
I could not have been biassed an instant by those who know not how to appreciate her . 
Hold , therefore , amiable Miss Ellis , your condescending promise sacred , though I make a momentary cession of my claim upon it , to the pleadings of those who are every way better entitled to judge than I am , of what will best demonstrate the high and true respect felt for Miss Ellis , by `` Her most obedient , humble servant , Melbury . 
She is ashamed of its insignificance ; but she has a plan , which I shall unfold when I have next the honour of seeing you , to solicit , as a mark of your confidence , becoming , through me , your banker till your affairs are arranged . 
Even then , though evidently startled , she would not consent to go back to Lewes , which she had quitted , she loudly declared , for ever : but , after wildly enquiring for Ellis , and being assured that she was returned to Mrs. Ireton 's , she was , at length , wrought upon to accept an invitation , which , through measures that were taken by the active Harleigh , Mrs. Ireton had been prevailed with to send to her ; and which included her sister and Mrs. Maple . 
She grew so agitated , that is was frightful , Selina continued , to see her ; and looked franticly about her , as if for means to destroy herself : and nothing could urge her to quit the church , or church-yard , whence she eagerly tried to command away all others ; till Mr. Harleigh had recourse to Mr. Naird , who had alarmed her into submission . 
She rang the bell , and told Mrs. Golding to go instantly to Mr. Harleigh , and acquaint him that Elinor Joddrel and Miss Ellis desired to speak with him immediately . 
Make him enter the first empty room , and tell him 't is Miss Ellis alone who desires to speak with him . 
You ought to be proud , Ellis , voluntarily to serve her whom involuntarily you have ruined ! '' 
Observing the change in her countenance , and her hesitation and difficulty to answer , Lord Melbury , whose look and air changed also , said , in a tone of concern , `` Miss Ellis has not forgotten her kind promise ? '' 
`` Your lordship is extremely good , to remember either that or me ; yet I hope -- '' `` What does Miss Ellis hope ? 
I would not counteract her hopes for the world ; but surely she can not be so cruel as to disappoint mine ? 
to make me fear that she has changed her opinion ? 
to withdraw her amiable trust ? '' 
Why , dear Miss Ellis , since you have the kindness to believe I may be trusted , not confide to me the whole truth ? '' 
-- `` Sweet Miss Ellis ! 
-- sweet injured Miss Ellis ! 
Even Aurora , with all her gentleness , has been as indignant at it , nearly , as myself . 
Ellis , forced to obey , went to the back of the sofa , to avoid standing by the side of the two gentlemen ; and determined to make use of this opportunity for announcing her project of retreat . 
`` I shall intrude no apologies upon your time , Madam , '' said Ellis , calmly , `` for relinquishing a situation in which I have acquitted myself so little to your satisfaction : to-morrow , therefore -- '' Anticipating , and eager to convert a resignation which she regarded as a disgrace , into a dismission which she considered as a triumph , Mrs. Ireton impatiently interrupted her , crying , `` To-morrow ? 
Lord Denmeath , upon the sudden disappearance of Miss Ellis , had been surprised into confessing , that he had a faint notion that he knew something of that young person ; that there had been , once , an odd story , -- a report -- that a young woman was existing in France , who was some way belonging to the late Lord Granville , his sister 's husband ; though without ever having been acknowledged by the family . 
Without any letter , however , the messenger returned , though with an acknowledgement that one was arrived ; but that it could only be delivered to Miss Ellis herself ; or to a written order with a receipt . 
`` Pray , be you the person called , ` Commonly known by the name of Miss Ellis ? 
As fearful , now , of the name of Ellis , as , heretofore , she had been of that of Granville , she desired that the answer might be directed , under cover to `` Master Simmers , Farmer , at -- , near the New Forest ; '' and that the enclosed letter might have no other address than , `` For the young Woman who lodges at the Farm . '' 
Again , then , she returned to the meadow , which , now her mind was more at ease , seemed adorned with added verdure , freshness , and beauty . 
Here , pensive , yet not without consolation , she past the day . 
The next , she rambled a few paces further , and found out a cottage , in a situation of the most romantic loveliness , in which two labourers , and their wives , resided with their mother ; a cheerful , pleasing old woman , with whom Juliet was immediately in amity . 
`` She goes commonly by the name of Miss Ellis . 
`` Whoever will send an account where she may be met with , or where she has been seen , to -- Attorney , in -- Street London , shall receive a very handsome reward . '' 
If you do not directly name , they squeaked in my ear , her brother and sister , she may demur at accompanying you : if her brother and sister honour your assertion , you will fix the matchless Wanderer in her proper sphere ; if they protest against it , -- what giant stands in the way to your rearing and protecting the lovely flower yourself ? 
, She then mutteringly walked off ; but almost instantly returned , desiring to know , in the name of Mrs. Howel , whether Miss Ellis preferred that the business of her examination should be terminated , before proper witnesses , in her own room . 
Folding , then , her white arms around Juliet , with redoubled tenderness , `` Oh my sweet Miss Ellis ! '' 
Your talents , your acquirements , your manners , won , instantly , all our admiration ; enchanted , bewitched us ; but how wide were we from thinking , at that first moment , that we had any tie to a mutual regard with the accomplished Miss Ellis ! 
-- Ah , my Miss Ellis ! 
When she learnt that Miss Ellis , instead of being either an adventurer , or a distant and unhonoured relation , was the daughter of her own father ; by a first , a lawful , though a secret marriage ; all difficulty and irresolution vanished . 
Lady Aurora , bitterly weeping , was compelled , then , to acknowledge that she had been hurried away by Mrs. Howel , to be told that a foreigner , ill dressed , and just arrived from the Continent , was demanding , in broken English , of every one that he met , some news of a young person called Miss Ellis . 
A waiter now interrupted them , to demand admission to Miss Ellis for a foreigner . 
-- There is no Miss Ellis here ! 
His orders had been to proceed straight to Salisbury , whence , under the name of Miss Ellis , he was to seek Juliet in every direction . 
She shrieked with sudden horrour and despair , strenuously striving to disengage herself ; though persuaded that the only person who would dare thus to assail her , was him to whom she was intentionally resigning her destiny ; but her instinctive resistance was short ; a voice that spoke love and sweetness exclaimed , `` Miss Ellis ! 
sweet , lovely Miss Ellis ! 
take comfort , loveliest Miss Ellis ! 
-- for I ca n't help calling you Miss Ellis , now and then , a little while longer : -- I have a plan to make you free ! 
`` Will not Miss Granville be more gracious than Miss Ellis has been ? 
`` Loveliest Miss Ellis ! 
