Ask Caroline Helstone . '' 
`` Caroline ! 
I ask Caroline ? 
I consult her about my dress ? 
It is she who on all points should consult me ; she is a child . '' 
`` She is eighteen , or at the least seventeen ; old enough to know all about gowns , petticoats , and chaussures . '' 
`` Do not spoil Caroline , I entreat you , brother ; do not make her of more consequence than she ought to be . 
At present she is modest and unassuming : let us keep her so . '' 
Is she coming this morning ? '' 
`` She will come at ten , as usual , to take her French lesson . '' 
`` You do n't find that she sneers at you , do you ? '' 
`` She does not , she appreciates me better than any one else here ; but then she has more intimate opportunities of knowing me : she sees that I have education , intelligence , manner , principles ; all , in short , which belongs to a person well-born and well-bred . '' 
`` Are you at all fond of her ? '' 
I have a regard for her as my relative ; her position also inspires interest , and her conduct as my pupil has hitherto been such as rather to enhance than diminish the attachment that springs from other causes . '' 
`` She behaves pretty well at lessons ? '' 
`` To me she behaves very well ; but you are conscious , brother , that I have a manner calculated to repel over-familiarity , to win esteem , and to command respect . 
Yet , possessed of penetration , I perceive clearly that Caroline is not perfect ; that there is much to be desired in her . '' 
`` Give me a last cup of coffee , and while I am drinking it amuse me with an account of her faults . '' 
Caroline , then , is defective ; but , with my forming hand and almost motherly care , she may improve . 
There is about her an occasional something -- a reserve , I think -- which I do not quite like , because it is not sufficiently girlish and submissive ; and there are glimpses of an unsettled hurry in her nature , which put me out . 
Yet she is usually most tranquil , too dejected and thoughtful indeed sometimes . 
In time , I doubt not , I shall make her uniformly sedate and decorous , without being unaccountably pensive . 
I sometimes , you are aware , make her read French poetry by way of practice in pronunciation . 
She has , in the course of her lessons , gone through much of Corneille and Racine , in a very steady , sober spirit , such as I approve . 
Occasionally she showed , indeed , a degree of languor in the perusal of those esteemed authors , partaking rather of apathy than sobriety , and apathy is what I can not tolerate in those who have the benefit of my instructions ; besides , one should not be apathetic in studying standard works . 
The other day I put into her hands a volume of short fugitive pieces . 
I sent her to the window to learn one by heart , and when I looked up I saw her turning the leaves over impatiently , and curling her lip , absolutely with scorn , as she surveyed the little poems cursorily . 
I chid her . 
` Ma cousine , ' said she , ` tout cela m ` ennuie à la mort . ' 
I told her this was improper language . 
she exclaimed . 
I inquired what she meant . 
She begged my pardon with proper submission . 
Ere long she was still ; I saw her smiling to herself over the book ; she began to learn assiduously . 
In half an hour she came and stood before me , presented the volume , folded her hands , as I always require her to do , and commenced the repetition of that short thing by Chénier , ` La Jeune Captive . ' 
If you had heard the manner in which she went through this , and in which she uttered a few incoherent comments when she had done , you would have known what I meant by the phrase ` unsettled hurry . ' 
You , brother , who have so much sagacity , will discern that this disproportionate preference argues an ill-regulated mind ; but she is fortunate in a preceptress . 
I will give her a system , a method of thought , a set of opinions ; I will give her the perfect control and guidance of her feelings . '' 
`` Yes : we set out in very martial style , Caroline ; but the prisoners we went to rescue met us halfway . '' 
`` And what danger is to be apprehended , Caroline , when daylight is gone ? 
`` Anne Pearson showed me the bullet in the chamber-door , '' remarked Caroline , gravely , as she folded her mantle , and arranged it and her muff on a side-table . 
`` You know , '' she continued , `` there is a hedge all the way along the road from here to Whinbury , and there are the Fieldhead plantations to pass ; but you will be back by six -- or before ? '' 
`` You suspect I have many enemies then , Caroline ? '' 
What life are you destined for , Caroline ? 
`` No , Robert -- '' `` Yes , Caroline . 
`` I am all ear , Caroline . '' 
`` I suppose I am not an affectionate man , Caroline ; the attachment of a very few suffices me . '' 
Moore plucked here and there a blossom and leaf , till he had collected a little bouquet ; he returned to the parlour , pilfered a thread of silk from his sister 's work-basket , tied the flowers , and laid them on Caroline 's desk . 
`` I forgot my gloves , '' he said , appearing to take something from the side-table ; then , as an impromptu thought , he remarked , `` You have no binding engagement at home , perhaps , Caroline ? '' 
She smiled . 
She nodded her head ; and her eyes lit up . 
Moore lingered yet two minutes : he bent over Caroline 's desk and glanced at her grammar , he fingered her pen , he lifted her bouquet and played with it ; his horse stamped impatient ; Fred . 
Hortense , coming in ten minutes after , found , to her surprise , that Caroline had not yet commenced her exercise . 
Caroline forgot , again and again , the explanations which were given to her ; however , she still bore with unclouded mood the chidings her inattention brought upon her . 
Sitting in the sunshine , near the window , she seemed to receive with its warmth a kind influence , which made her both happy and good . 
Thus disposed , she looked her best , and her best was a pleasing vision . 
To her had not been denied the gift of beauty ; it was not absolutely necessary to know her in order to like her ; she was fair enough to please , even at the first view . 
Her shape suited her age ; it was girlish , light , and pliant ; every curve was neat , every limb proportionate : her face was expressive and gentle ; her eyes were handsome , and gifted at times with a winning beam that stole into the heart , with a language that spoke softly to the affections . 
Her mouth was very pretty ; she had a delicate skin , and a fine flow of brown hair , which she knew how to arrange with taste ; curls became her , and she possessed them in picturesque profusion . 
Her style of dress announced taste in the wearer ; very unobtrusive in fashion , far from costly in material , but suitable in colour to the fair complexion with which it contrasted , and in make to the slight form which it draped . 
Her present winter garb was of merino , the same soft shade of brown as her hair ; the little collar round her neck lay over a pink ribbon , and was fastened with a pink knot : she wore no other decoration . 
So much for Caroline Helstone 's appearance ; as to her character or intellect , if she had any , they must speak for themselves in due time . 
Her connections are soon explained . 
She was the child of parents separated soon after her birth , in consequence of disagreement of disposition . 
Her mother was the half-sister of Mr. Moore 's father ; thus -- though there was no mixture of blood -- she was , in a distant sense , the cousin of Robert , Louis , and Hortense . 
Caroline had never known her mother , as she was taken from her in infancy , and had not since seen her ; her father died comparatively young , and her uncle , the Rector , had for some years been her sole guardian . 
She took Caroline precisely at her own estimate , as an irregularly-taught , even ignorant girl ; and when she found that she made rapid and eager progress , it was to no talent -- no application in the scholar , she ascribed the improvement , but entirely to her own superior method of teaching ; when she found that Caroline , unskilled in routine , had a knowledge of her own -- desultory but varied , the discovery caused her no surprise , for she still imagined that from her conversation had the girl unawares gleaned these treasures : she thought it even when forced to feel that her pupil knew much on subjects whereof she knew little : the idea was not logical , but Hortense had perfect faith in it . 
These `` analyses '' were by no means a source of particular pleasure to Caroline ; she thought she could have learned French just as well without them , and grudged excessively the time spent in pondering over `` propositions , principales , et incidentes ; '' in deciding the `` incidente determinative '' and the `` incidente applicative ; '' in examining whether the proposition was `` pleine , '' `` elliptique , '' or `` implicite . '' 
Sometimes she lost herself in the maze , and when so lost , she would , now and then -LRB- while Hortense was rummaging her drawers up-stairs , -- an unaccountable occupation in which she spent a large portion of each day , arranging , disarranging , rearranging and counter-arranging -RRB- -- carry her book to Robert in the counting-house , and get the rough place made smooth by his aid . 
Mr. Moore possessed a clear , tranquil brain of his own ; almost as soon as he looked at Caroline 's little difficulties they seemed to dissolve beneath his eye : in two minutes he would explain all ; in two words give the key to the puzzle . 
She thought if Hortense could only teach like him , how much faster she might learn ! 
Sometimes during these visits , Moore was away , attending a market ; sometimes he was gone to Mr. Yorke 's ; often he was engaged with a male visitor in another room ; but sometimes , too , he was at home , disengaged , free to talk with Caroline . 
Mr. Moore , released from the business-yoke , was , if not lively himself , a willing spectator of Caroline 's liveliness , a complacent listener to her talk , a ready respondent to her questions . 
`` If I had a means of happiness at my command , '' she thought , `` I would employ that means often ; I would keep it bright with use , and not let it lie for weeks aside , till it gets rusty . '' 
Yet she was careful not to put in practice her own theory . 
Much as she liked an evening visit to the cottage , she never paid one unasked . 
Mademoiselle , ever breathlessly busy , spent it in bustling from kitchen to parlour -- now scolding Sarah , now looking over Caroline 's exercise or hearing her repetition-lesson . 
However faultlessly these tasks were achieved , she never commended : it was a maxim with her that praise is inconsistent with a teacher 's dignity , and that blame , in more or less unqualified measure , is indispensable to it . 
She thought incessant reprimand , severe or slight , quite necessary to the maintenance of her authority ; and if no possible error was to be found in the lesson , it was the pupil 's carriage , or air , or dress , or mein , which required correction . 
Caroline had no objection to this Belgian cookery : indeed , she rather liked it for a change , and it was well she did so , for had she evinced any disrelish thereof , such manifestation would have injured her in Mademoiselle 's good graces for ever ; a positive crime might have been more easily pardoned than a symptom of distaste for the foreign comestibles . 
Soon after dinner Caroline coaxed her governess-cousin up-stairs to dress : this manoeuvre required management . 
Carefully avoiding rocks and quicksands , however , the pupil , on pretence of requiring a change of scene , contrived to get the teacher aloft , and , once in the bed-room , she persuaded her that it was not worth while returning thither , and that she might as well make her toilette now ; and while Mademoiselle delivered a solemn homily on her own surpassing merit in disregarding all frivolities of fashion , Caroline denuded her of the camisole , invested her with a decent gown , arranged her collar , hair , & c. and made her quite presentable . 
She had , with her own hands , made and presented to Caroline similar equipments ; and the only serious quarrel they had ever had , and which still left a soreness in the elder cousin 's soul , had arisen from the refusal of the younger one to accept of and profit by these elegant presents . 
`` I wear a high dress and a collar , '' said Caroline , `` and I should feel suffocated with a handkerchief in addition ; and my short aprons do quite as well as that very long one : I would rather make no change . '' 
Yet Hortense , by dint of perseverance , would probably have compelled her to make a change , had not Mr. Moore chanced to overhear a dispute on the subject , and decided that Caroline 's little aprons would suffice , and that , in his opinion , as she was still but a child , she might for the present dispense with the fichu , especially as her curls were long , and almost touched her shoulders . 
There was no appeal against Robert 's opinion , therefore his sister was compelled to yield ; but she disapproved entirely of the piquant neatness of Caroline 's costume , and the lady-like grace of her appearance : something more solid and homely , she would have considered `` beaucoup plus convenable . '' 
Mademoiselle , like most Belgian ladies , was specially skilful with her needle . 
She by no means thought it waste of time to devote unnumbered hours to fine embroidery , sight-destroying lace-work , marvellous netting and knitting , and , above all , to most elaborate stocking-mending . 
She would give a day to the mending of two holes in a stocking any time , and think her `` mission '' nobly fulfilled when she had accomplished it . 
It was another of Caroline 's troubles to be condemned to learn this foreign style of darning , which was done stitch by stitch so as exactly to imitate the fabric of the stocking itself ; a wearifu ' process , but considered by Hortense Gérard , and by her ancestresses before her for long generations back , as one of the first `` duties of woman . '' 
She herself had had a needle , cotton , and a fearfully torn stocking put into her hand while she yet wore a child 's coif on her little black head : her `` hauts faits '' in the darning line had been exhibited to company ere she was six years old , and when she first discovered that Caroline was profoundly ignorant of this most essential of attainments , she could have wept with pity over her miserably neglected youth . 
No time did she lose in seeking up a hopeless pair of hose , of which the heels were entirely gone , and in setting the ignorant English girl to repair the deficiency : this task had been commenced two years ago , and Caroline had the stockings in her work-bag yet . 
She did a few rows every day , by way of penance for the expiation of her sins : they were a grievous burden to her , she would much have liked to put them in the fire ; and once Mr. Moore , who had observed her sitting and sighing over them , had proposed a private incremation in the counting-house , but to this proposal Caroline knew it would have been impolitic to accede -- the result could only be a fresh pair of hose , probably in worse condition : she adhered , therefore , to the ills she knew . 
The sky since dinner had darkened ; it had begun to rain again , to pour fast : secret fears began to steal on Caroline that Robert would be persuaded by Mr. Sykes or Mr. Yorke to remain at Whinbury till it cleared , and of that there appeared no present chance . 
Caroline , obedient to orders , passed into the kitchen . 
Caroline half turned from her dressmaking occupation , but renewed it for a moment , as if to gain a minute 's time for some purpose . 
Bent over the dress , her face was hidden ; there was an attempt to settle her features and veil their expression , which failed : when she at last met Mr. Moore , her countenance beamed . 
`` We had ceased to expect you : they asserted you would not come , '' she said . 
He stood on the kitchen-hearth ; Caroline stood beside him . 
`` What are they , Caroline ? '' 
Before Hortense followed them thither , Caroline had only time again to question , `` Not my enemy , Robert ? '' 
and then , seating himself at the table , had settled Caroline at his side . 
Caroline scarcely heard Mademoiselle 's explosion of wrath when she rejoined them ; the long declamation about the `` conduite indigne de cette méchante créature , '' sounded in her ear as confusedly as the agitated rattling of the china . 
She observed , too , that Caroline listened with naïve interest ; this augmented her good-humour ; and the exclamation at the close of the song , `` I wish I could sing and play like Hortense ! '' 
achieved the business , and rendered her charming for the evening . 
It is true , a little lecture to Caroline followed , on the vanity of wishing , and the duty of trying . 
`` What shall we do now , Caroline ? '' 
repeated she playfully . 
Caroline , who , mounted on a chair , had been rummaging the book-case , returned with a book . 
`` Here 's Shakspeare , '' she said , `` and there 's Coriolanus . 
Caroline , dear child , take your embroidery ; you may get three sprigs done to-night . '' 
Caroline looked dismayed . 
`` Permit her to neglect the embroidery for this evening . 
I wish her whole attention to be fixed on my accent , and to ensure this , she must follow the reading with her eyes ; she must look at the book . '' 
He placed it between them , reposed his arm on the back of Caroline 's chair , and thus began to read . 
Caroline looked up at him with a singular smile . 
`` There 's a vicious point hit already , '' she said , `` you sympathize with that proud patrician who does not sympathize with his famished fellow-men , and insults them ; there , go on . '' 
He did not read the comic scenes well , and Caroline , taking the book out of his hand , read these parts for him . 
From her he seemed to enjoy them , and indeed she gave them with a spirit no one could have expected of her , with a pithy expression with which she seemed gifted on the spot , and for that brief moment only . 
It may be remarked , in passing , that the general character of her conversation that evening , whether serious or sprightly , grave or gay , was as of something untaught , unstudied , intuitive , fitful ; when once gone , no more to be reproduced as it had been , than the glancing ray of the meteor , than the tints of the dew-gem , than the colour or form of the sun-set cloud , than the fleeting and glittering ripple varying the flow of a rivulet . 
With the revenge of Caius Marcius , Moore perfectly sympathized ; he was not scandalized by it , and again Caroline whispered , `` There , I see another glimpse of brotherhood in error . '' 
asked Caroline , some ten minutes after her cousin had closed the book . 
`` You are a little democrat , Caroline : if your uncle knew , what would he say ? '' 
Caroline , beginning in a low , rather tremulous voice , but gaining courage as she proceeded , repeated the sweet verses of Chénier : Caroline had never seen Millevoye 's `` Jeune Malade , '' otherwise she would have known that there is a better poem in the French language than Chénier 's `` Captive ; '' a poem worthy to have been written in English , -- an inartificial , genuine , impressive strain . 
the last three stanzas she rehearsed well . 
Moore listened at first with his eyes cast down , but soon he furtively raised them : leaning back in his chair , he could watch Caroline without her perceiving where his gaze was fixed . 
Her cheek had a colour , her eyes a light , her countenance an expression , this evening , which would have made even plain features striking ; but there was not the grievous defect of plainness to pardon in her case . 
At the present moment -- animated , interested , touched -- she might be called beautiful . 
When she had finished , she turned to Moore , and met his eye . 
she inquired , smiling like any happy , docile child . 
Caroline Helstone was just eighteen years old ; and at eighteen the true narrative of life is yet to be commenced . 
Caroline , having been convoyed home by Robert , had no wish to pass what remained of the evening with her uncle : the room in which he sat was very sacred ground to her ; she seldom intruded on it , and to-night she kept aloof till the bell rung for prayers . 
Caroline saw a shape , a head , that , daguerreotyped in that attitude and with that expression , would have been lovely : she could not choose but derive from the spectacle confirmation to her hopes : it was then in undiminished gladness she sought her couch . 
And in undiminished gladness she rose the next day : as she entered her uncle 's breakfast-room , and with soft cheerfulness wished him good-morning , even that little man of bronze himself thought , for an instant , his niece was growing `` a fine girl . '' 
Caroline , made perhaps a little too courageous by her temporary good spirits , here hazarded a remark of a kind she had never before ventured to make on observations dropped by her revered relative . 
`` Uncle , '' said she , `` whenever you speak of marriage , you speak of it scornfully : do you think people should n't marry ? '' 
It was by no means naïve simplicity which inspired Caroline 's next remark : it was a sense of antipathy to such opinions , and of displeasure at him who held them . 
`` Caroline , '' said Mr. Helstone , bringing his hand slowly down to within an inch or two of the table , and then smiting it suddenly on the mahogany , `` understand this : it is vulgar and puerile to confound generals with particulars : in every case , there is the rule , and there are the exceptions . 
Caroline , turning from the lattice whence she had been watching the starlings -LRB- though without seeing them -RRB- , in a low voice , and with a sad bitter tone , thus broke the silence of the room : -- `` You term marriage , miserable , I suppose , from what you saw of my father 's and mother 's . 
had been on Caroline 's lips hundreds of times before ; but till now she had never uttered it . 
Perhaps Caroline would have said more ; but Fanny coming in , informed her master that the churchwardens wanted to speak to him in the vestry . 
But what has been said in the last page or two is not germane to Caroline Helstone 's feelings , or to the state of things between her and Robert Moore . 
Robert had done her no wrong : he had told her no lie ; it was she that was to blame , if any one was : what bitterness her mind distilled should and would be poured on her own head . 
She had loved without being asked to love , -- a natural , sometimes an inevitable chance , but big with misery . 
Robert , indeed , had sometimes seemed to be fond of her -- but why ? 
Because she had made herself so pleasing to him , he could not , in spite of all his efforts , help testifying a state of feeling his judgment did not approve , nor his will sanction . 
He was about to withdraw decidedly from intimate communication with her , because he did not choose to have his affections inextricably entangled , nor to be drawn , despite his reason , into a marriage he believed imprudent . 
Now , what was she to do ? 
-- to give way to her feelings , or to vanquish them ? 
If she is weak , she will try the last expedient , -- will lose his esteem and win his aversion ; if she has sense , she will be her own governor , and resolve to subdue and bring under guidance the disturbed realm of her emotions . 
She will determine to look on life steadily , as it is ; to begin to learn its severe truths seriously , and to study its knotty problems closely , conscientiously . 
It appeared she had a little sense , for she quitted Robert quietly , without complaint or question -- without the alteration of a muscle or the shedding of a tear , -- betook herself to her studies under Hortense as usual , and at dinner-time went home without lingering . 
When she had dined , and found herself in the Rectory drawing-room alone , having left her uncle over his temperate glass of port wine , the difficulty that occurred to , and embarrassed her , was -- `` How am I to get through this day ? '' 
Last night she had hoped it would be spent as yesterday was , -- that the evening would be again passed with Happiness and Robert : she had learned her mistake this morning , and yet she could not settle down , convinced that no chance would occur to recall her to Hollow 's cottage , or to bring Moore again into her society . 
Thus it chanced on that afternoon that Caroline 's ears were three times tortured with the ringing of the bell , and the advent of undesired guests : for Donne followed Malone , and Sweeting followed Donne ; and more wine was ordered up from the cellar into the dining-room -LRB- for though old Helstone chid the inferior priesthood when he found them `` carousing , '' as he called it , in their own tents , yet at his hierarchical table he ever liked to treat them to a glass of his best -RRB- , and through the closed doors Caroline heard their boyish laughter , and the vacant cackle of their voices . 
Her fear was lest they should stay to tea ; for she had no pleasure in making tea for that particular trio . 
When Caroline was going to receive company , her habit was to wring her hands very nervously , to flush a little , and come forward hurriedly yet hesitatingly , wishing herself meantime at Jericho . 
She was , at such crises , sadly deficient in finished manner , though she had once been at school a year . 
Accordingly , on this occasion , her small white hands sadly maltreated each other , while she stood up , waiting the entrance of Mrs. Sykes . 
Caroline `` was glad to see them '' -LRB- an unmitigated fib -RRB- , hoped they were well , hoped Mrs. Sykes 's cough was better -LRB- Mrs. Sykes had had a cough for the last twenty years -RRB- , hoped the Misses Sykes had left their sisters at home well ; to which inquiry , the Misses Sykes , sitting on three chairs opposite the music-stool , whereon Caroline had undesignedly come to anchor , after wavering for some seconds between it and a large arm-chair , into which she at length recollected she ought to induct Mrs. Sykes : and indeed that lady saved her the trouble by depositing herself therein ; the Misses Sykes replied to Caroline by one simultaneous bow , very majestic and mighty awful . 
Miss Mary , getting up the steam in her turn , asked whether Caroline had attended the Bible Society Meeting which had been held at Nunnely last Thursday night : the negative answer which truth compelled Caroline to utter -- for last Thursday evening she had been sitting at home , reading a novel which Robert had lent her -- elicited a simultaneous expression of surprise from the lips of the four ladies . 
During its continuance , Caroline was feeling at her heart 's core what a dreaming fool she was ; what an unpractical life she led ; how little fitness there was in her for ordinary intercourse with the ordinary world . 
She was feeling how exclusively she had attached herself to the white cottage in the Hollow ; how in the existence of one inmate of that cottage she had pent all her universe : she was sensible that this would not do , and that some day she would be forced to make an alteration : it could not be said that she exactly wished to resemble the ladies before her , but she wished to become superior to her present self , so as to feel less scared by their dignity . 
The sole means she found of reviving the flagging discourse , was by asking them if they would all stay to tea ; and a cruel struggle it cost her to perform this piece of civility . 
Their names were specified ; she and her daughters interchanged glances : the curates were not to them what they were to Caroline . 
And now Caroline had to usher them up-stairs , to help them to unshawl , smooth their hair and make themselves smart ; to reconduct them to the drawing-room , to distribute amongst them books of engravings , or odd things purchased from the Jew-basket : she was obliged to be a purchaser , though she was but a slack contributor , and if she had possessed plenty of money , she would rather , when it was brought to the Rectory -- an awful incubus ! 
`` Then , '' suggested Caroline , to whom the importance of the emergency gave a certain energy , `` Fanny must run down to Briarfield and buy some muffins and crumpets , and some biscuits : and do n't be cross , Eliza , we ca n't help it now . '' 
`` Oh , the best , I suppose : I 'll get out the silver service , '' and she ran up-stairs to the plate-closet , and presently brought down tea-pot , cream-ewer , and sugar-basin . 
I wish they were gone , '' she sighed as she returned to the drawing-room . 
`` Still , '' she thought , as she paused at the door ere opening it , `` if Robert would but come even now how bright all would be ! 
She went in . 
dropped into a seat at Caroline 's elbow : to her unmitigated annoyance , for she had a peculiar antipathy to Donne , on account of his stultified and unmoveable self-conceit , and his incurable narrowness of mind . 
Malone , grinning most unmeaningly , inducted himself into the corresponding seat on the other side : she was thus blessed in a pair of supporters ; neither of whom , she knew , would be of any mortal use , whether for keeping up the conversation , handing cups , circulating the muffins , or even lifting the plate from the slop-basin . 
These three questions being put and responded to , between Caroline and Malone regined silence . 
So very credulous and frivolous was she ; so very silly did she become when besieged with attention , flattered and admired to the proper degree , that there were moments when Helstone actually felt tempted to commit matrimony a second time , and to try the experiment of taking her for his second help-meet : but , fortunately , the salutary recollection of the ennuis of his first marriage , the impression still left on him of the weight of the millstone he had once worn round his neck , the fixity of his feelings respecting the insufferable evils of conjugal existence , operated as a check to his tenderness , suppressed the sigh heaving his old iron lungs , and restrained him from whispering to Hannah proposals it would have been high fun and great satisfaction to her to hear . 
Vainly did Caroline inquire repeatedly if he would have another cup ; if he would take a little hot tea , as that must be cold , & c. : he would neither drink it nor leave it . 
And now , in the natural course of events -LRB- Caroline , knowing how it would be , had opened the piano , and produced music-books in readiness -RRB- , music was asked for . 
Caroline , quite willing that they should be sundered , soon devised an excuse for stepping over to the opposite side of the room , and taking up a position beside Mrs. Sykes ; of which good lady she entreated some instruction in a new stitch in ornamental knitting , a favour readily granted , and thus Peter Augustus was thrown out . 
Caroline at intervals dropped her knitting on her lap , and gave herself up to a sort of brainlethargy-closing her eyes and depressing her head -- caused by what seemed to her the unmeaning hum round her : the inharmonious , tasteless rattle of the piano keys , the squeaking and gasping notes of the flute , the laughter and mirth of her uncle and Hannah and Mary , she could not tell whence originating , for she heard nothing comic or gleeful in their discourse ; and , more than all , by the interminable gossip of Mrs. Sykes murmured close at her ear ; gossip which rang the changes on four subjects : her own health and that of the various members of her family ; the Missionary and Jew-baskets and their contents ; the late meeting at Nunnely , and one which was expected to come off next week at Whinbury . 
Caroline sank into her uncle 's large easy chair , half shut her eyes , and rested herself -- rested at least her limbs , her senses , her hearing , her vision -- weary with listening to nothing , and gazing on vacancy . 
As to her mind , that flew directly to the Hollow : it stood on the threshold of the parlour there , then it passed to the counting-house , and wondered which spot was blessed by the presence of Robert . 
It so happened that neither locality had that honour ; for Robert was half a mile away from both , and much nearer to Caroline than her deadened spirit suspected : he was at this moment crossing the churchyard , approaching the rectory garden-gate : not , however , coming to see his cousin , but intent solely on communicating a brief piece of intelligence to the rector . 
Yes , Caroline ; you hear the wire of the bell vibrate : it rings again for the fifth time this afternoon : you start , and you are certain now that this must be him of whom you dream . 
Now , having caught these words , and hearing him advance , Caroline , if there was a door within the dining-room , would glide through it and disappear . 
She feels caught , hemmed in ; she dreads her unexpected presence may annoy him . 
A second since , she would have flown in him ; that second passed , she would flee from him . 
She can not ; there is no way of escape : the dining-room has but one door , through which now enters her cousin . 
The look of troubled surprise she expected to see in his face has appeared there , has shocked her , and is gone . 
She has stammered a sort of apology : -- `` I only left the drawing-room a minute for a little quiet . '' 
There was something so diffident and downcast in the air and tone with which she said this , any one might perceive that some saddening change had lately passed over her prospects , and that the faculty of cheerful self-possession had left her . 
Mr. Moore , probably , remembered how she had formerly been accustomed to meet him with gentle ardour and hopeful confidence ; he must have seen how the check of this morning had operated : here was an opportunity for carrying out his new system with effect , if he chose to improve it . 
Fanny lit the candles , which before had stood unlit on the table , brought writing materials , and left the room : Caroline was about to follow her . 
`` And why no , Caroline ? '' 
The hint , though conveyed thus tenderly and modestly -LRB- as Caroline thought -RRB- , was felt keenly and comprehended clearly . 
Caroline -- '' Here the company was heard rising in the other room ; the door was opened ; the pony-carriage was ordered ; shawls and bonnets were demanded ; Mr. Helstone called for his niece . 
Caroline , good-night ! '' 
Yes , it was the same man , only seen on a different side ; a side Caroline had not yet fairly beheld , though perhaps she had enough sagacity faintly to suspect its existence . 
Well , Caroline had , doubtless , her defective side too : she was human , she must then have been very imperfect , and had she seen Moore on his very worst side , she would probably have said this to herself and excused him . 
She means Caroline Helstone , the Rector 's niece : I remember all about it . 
He wondered -LRB- he remarked parenthetically -RRB- what noodle first made it the fashion to teach women French : nothing was more improper for them ; it was like feeding a rickety child on chalk and water-gruel : Caroline must give it up , and give up her cousins too : they were dangerous people . 
Seldom did he trouble himself about Caroline 's movements , but a vague idea possessed him that she was fond of going to Hollow 's cottage : also he suspected that she liked Robert Moore 's occasional presence at the Rectory . 
The Cossack had perceived that whereas if Malone stepped in of an evening to make himself sociable and charming , by pinching the ears of an aged black cat , which usually shared with Miss Helstone 's feet the accommodation of her footstool , or by borrowing a fowlingpiece , and banging away at a tool-shed door in the garden while enough of daylight remained to show that conspicuous mark -- keeping the passage and sitting-room doors meantime uncomfortably open , for the convenience of running in and out to announce his failures and successes with noisy brusquerie -- he had observed that under such entertaining circumstances , Caroline had a trick of disappearing , tripping noiselessly up-stairs , and remaining invisible till called down to supper . 
On the other hand , when Robert Moore was the guest , though he elicited no vivacities from the cat , did nothing to it , indeed , beyond occasionally coaxing it from the stool to his knee , and there letting it purr , climb to his shoulder and rub its head against his cheek ; though there was no ear-splitting cracking off of firearms , no diffusion of sulphurous gunpowder perfume , no noise , no boasting during his stay , that still Caroline sat in the room , and seemed to find wondrous content in the stitching of Jew-basket pincushions , and the knitting of Missionary-basket socks . 
She was very quiet , and Robert paid her little attention , scarcely ever addressing his discourse to her ; but Mr. Helstone , not being one of those elderly gentlemen who are easily blinded , on the contrary , finding himself on all occasions extremely wide-awake , had watched them when they bade each other good-night : he had just seen their eyes meet once -- only once . 
It was by no means a glance of mutual intelligence , for mutual love-secrets existed not between them : there was nothing then of craft and concealment to offend ; only Mr. Moore 's eyes , looking into Caroline 's , felt they were clear and gentle , and Caroline 's eyes , encountering Mr. Moore 's , confessed they were manly and searching : each acknowledged the charm in his or her own way . 
Moore smiled slightly , and Caroline coloured as slightly . 
If you had asked him what Moore merited at that moment , he would have said `` a horsewhip ; '' if you had inquired into Caroline 's deserts , he would have adjudged her a box on the ear ; if you had further demanded the reason of such chastisements , he would have stormed against flirtation and love-making , and vowed he would have no such folly going on under his roof . 
He announced his will to Caroline one evening , as she was sitting at work near the drawing-room window : her face was turned towards him , and the light fell full upon it . 
It had struck him a few minutes before that she was looking paler and quieter than she used to look ; it had not escaped him either that Robert Moore 's name had never , for some three weeks past , dropped from her lips ; nor during the same space of time had that personage made his appearance at the Rectory . 
It was in a tone drily significant he desired her to cease her daily visits to the Hollow ; he expected a start , a look of deprecation : the start he saw , but it was a very slight one ; no look whatever was directed to him . 
`` Very well , '' said Caroline quietly . 
She acquiesced then : there was no vexed flushing of the face , no gathering tears : the shadowy thoughtfulness which had covered her features ere Mr. Helstone spoke remained undisturbed : she was obedient . 
Yes , perfectly ; because the mandate coincided with her own previous judgment ; because it was now become pain to her to go to Hollow 's cottage ; nothing met her there but disappointment : hope and love had quitted that little tenement , for Robert seemed to have deserted its precincts . 
Whenever she asked after him -- which she very seldom did , since the mere utterance of his name made her face grow hot -- the answer was , he was from home , or he was quite taken up with business : Hortense feared he was killing himself by application : he scarcely ever took a meal in the house ; he lived in the counting-house . 
At church only Caroline had the chance of seeing him , and there she rarely looked at him : it was both too much pain and too much pleasure to look : it excited too much emotion ; and that it was all wasted emotion , she had learned well to comprehend . 
Once , on a dark , wet Sunday , when there were few people at church , and when especially certain ladies were absent , of whose observant faculties and tomahawk tongues Caroline stood in awe , she had allowed her eye to seek Robert 's pew , and to rest a while on its occupant . 
By instinct Caroline knew , as she examined that clouded countenance , that his thoughts were running in no familiar or kindly channel ; that they were far away , not merely from her , but from all which she could comprehend , or in which she could sympathize . 
Nothing that they had ever talked of together was now in his mind : he was wrapt from her by interests and responsibilities in which it was deemed such as she could have no part . 
Caroline meditated in her own way on the subject ; speculated on his feelings , on his life , on his fears , on his fate ; mused over the mystery of `` business , '' tried to comprehend more about it than had ever been told her -- to understand its perplexities , liabilities , duties , exactions ; endeavoured to realize the state of mind of a `` man of business , '' to enter into it , feel what he would feel , aspire to what he would aspire . 
Her earnest wish was to see things as they were , and not to be romantic . 
By dint of effort she contrived to get a glimpse of the light of truth here and there , and hoped that scant ray might suffice to guide her . 
`` Different , indeed , '' she concluded , `` is Robert 's mental condition to mine : I think only of him ; he has no room , no leisure to think of me . 
That Sunday evening , Mr. Malone coming , as usual , to pass it with his Rector , Caroline withdrew after tea to her chamber . 
Fanny , knowing her habits , had lit her a cheerful little fire , as the weather was so gusty and chill . 
Closeted there , silent and solitary , what could she do but think ? 
She noiselessly paced to and fro the carpeted floor ; her head drooped , her hands folded : it was irksome to sit : the current of reflection ran rapidly through her mind : to-night she was mutely excited . 
The next day Caroline had to spend altogether alone , her uncle being gone to dine with his friend Dr. Boultby , vicar of Whinbury . 
The whole time she was talking inwardly in the same strain : looking forwards , asking what she was to do with life . 
Fanny , as she passed in and out of the room occasionally , intent on housemaid errands , perceived that her young mistress sat very still . 
She was always in the same place , always bent industriously over a piece of work : she did not lift her head to speak to Fanny , as her custom was , and when the latter remarked that the day was fine , and she ought to take a walk , she only said -- `` It is cold . '' 
`` You are very diligent at that sewing , Miss Caroline , '' continued the girl , approaching her little table . 
`` I 'll go and see her , '' exclaimed Caroline , starting up : `` and if she asks me to stay to tea , I 'll stay . 
Caroline looked at the little mirror before her , and she thought there were some signs . 
She could see that she was altered within the last month ; that the hues of her complexion were paler , her eyes changed -- a wan shade seemed to circle them , her countenance was dejected : she was not , in short , so pretty or so fresh as she used to be . 
She distantly hinted this to Fanny , from whom she got no direct answer , only a remark that people did vary in their looks ; but that at her age a little falling away signified nothing , -- she would soon come round again , and be plumper and rosier than ever . 
Having given this assurance , Fanny showed singular zeal in wrapping her up in warm shawls and handkerchiefs , till Caroline , nearly smothered with the weight , was fain to resist further additions . 
She paid her visits : first to Miss Mann , for this was the most difficult point : Miss Mann was certainly not quite a loveable person . 
Till now , Caroline had always unhesitatingly declared she disliked her , and more than once she had joined her cousin Robert in laughing at some of her peculiarities . 
Once on such an occasion , Caroline had said to him , looking up from the luxuriant creeper she was binding to its frame , -- `` Ah ! 
Ushered into Miss Mann 's little parlour , Caroline found her as she always found her , surrounded by perfect neatness , cleanliness , and comfort ; -LRB- after all , is it not a virtue in old maids that solitude rarely makes them negligent or disorderly ? -RRB- 
no dust on her polished furniture , none on her carpet , fresh flowers in the vase on her table , a bright fire in the grate . 
She herself sat primly and somewhat grimly-tidy in a cushioned rocking-chair , her hands busied with some knitting : this was her favourite work , as it required the least exertion . 
She scarcely rose as Caroline entered ; to avoid excitement was one of Miss Mann 's aims in life : she had been composing herself ever since she came down in the morning , and had just attained a certain lethargic state of tranquillity when the visitor 's knock at the door startled her , and undid her day 's work . 
The gaze had had such an effect on him as to drive him promptly from the apartment and house ; it had even sent him straightway up to the Rectory , where he had appeared in Caroline 's presence with a very queer face , and amazed her by demanding a cousinly salute on the spot , to rectify a damage that had been done him . 
Caroline had not sat five minutes , ere her hostess , still keeping her under the spell of that dread and Gorgon gaze , began flaying alive certain of the families in the neighbourhood . 
She went to work at this business in a singularly cool , deliberate manner , like some surgeon practising with his scalpel on a lifeless subject : she made few distinctions ; she allowed scarcely any one to be good ; she dissected impartially almost all her acquaintance . 
If her auditress ventured now and then to put in a palliative word , she set it aside with a certain disdain . 
Still , though thus pitiless in moral anatomy , she was no scandal-monger : she never disseminated really malignant or dangerous reports : it was not her heart so much as her temper that was wrong . 
Caroline made this discovery for the first time today ; and , moved thereby to regret divers unjust judgments she had more than once passed on the crabbed old maid , she began to talk to her softly , not in sympathizing words , but with a sympathizing voice . 
The loneliness of her condition struck her visitor in a new light ; as did also the character of her ugliness : a bloodless pallor of complexion , and deeply worn lines of feature . 
Caroline , when she knew all , acknowledged that Miss Mann was rather to be admired for fortitude than blamed for moroseness . 
Caroline found that the old maid had been a most devoted daughter and sister , an unwearied watcher by lingering deathbeds ; that to prolonged and unrelaxing attendance on the sick , the malady that now poisoned her own life owed its origin ; that to one wretched relative she had been a support and succour in the depths of self-earned degradation , and that it was still her hand which kept him from utter destitution . 
Caroline , on her return , told Fanny she was very glad she had gone out , as she felt much better for the visit . 
The next day she failed not to seek Miss Ainley . 
Her welcome to Caroline was formal , even in its kindness -- for it was kind ; but Miss Helstone excused this . 
Caroline was soon at home in that tiny parlour ; a kind hand took from her her shawl and bonnet , and installed her in the most comfortable seat near the fire . 
The young and the antiquated woman were presently deep in kindly conversation , and soon Caroline became aware of the power a most serene , unselfish , and benignant mind could exercise over those to whom it was developed . 
She talked never of herself -- always of others . 
Their faults she passed over ; her theme was their wants , which she sought to supply ; their sufferings , which she longed to alleviate . 
She was religious -- a professor of religion -- what some would call `` a saint , '' and she referred to religion often in sanctioned phrase -- in phrase which those who possess a perception of the ridiculous , without owning the power of exactly testing and truly judging character , would certainly have esteemed a proper subject for satire : a matter for mimicry and laughter . 
Not from Miss Ainley 's own lips did Caroline hear of her good works ; but she knew much of them nevertheless : her beneficence was the familiar topic of the poor in Briarfield . 
Caroline went home , laid her plans , and took a resolve not to swerve from them . 
She allotted a certain portion of her time for her various studies , and a certain portion for doing anything Miss Ainley might direct her to do ; the remainder was to be spent in exercise : not a moment was to be left for the indulgence of such fevered thoughts as had poisoned last Sunday evening . 
Yet Caroline refused tamely to succumb : she had native strength in her girl 's heart , and she used it . 
One mild May evening , Caroline passing near about moon-rise , and feeling , though weary , unwilling yet to go home , where there was only the bed of thorns and the night of grief to anticipate , sat down on the mossy ground near the gate , and gazed through towards cedar and mansion . 
It was a still night -- calm , dewy , cloudless : the gables , turned to the west , reflected the clear amber of the horizon they faced ; the oaks behind were black ; the cedar was blacker ; under its dense , raven boughs a glimpse of sky opened gravely blue : it was full of the moon , which looked solemnly and mildly down on Caroline from beneath that sombre canopy . 
She felt this night and prospect mournfully lovely . 
She wished she could be happy : she wished she could know inward peace : she wondered Providence had no pity on her , and would not help or console her . 
Recollections of happy trystes of lovers , commemorated in old ballads , returned on her mind : she thought such tryste in such scene would be blissful . 
she asked : not at the Hollow : she had watched for his lamp long , and had not seen it . 
She questioned within herself whether she and Moore were ever destined to meet and speak again . 
They passed across the lawn , out through a portal in the garden wall : Caroline saw them cross the road , pass the stile , descend the fields ; she saw them disappear . 
Robert Moore had passed before her with his friend Mr. Yorke : neither had seen her . 
The apparition had been transient -- scarce seen ere gone ; but its electric passage left her veins kindled , her soul insurgent . 
It found her despairing : it left her desperate -- two different states . 
was her cry , `` he would have said something : he would have given me his hand . 
Thus , in the utter sickness of longing and disappointment , she went home . 
The next morning at breakfast , where she appeared , white-cheeked and miserable-looking as one who had seen a ghost , she inquired of Mr. Helstone , -- `` Have you any objection , uncle , to my inquiring for a situation in a family ? '' 
Her uncle , ignorant as the table supporting his coffee-cup of all his niece had undergone and was undergoing , scarcely believed his ears . 
`` I am not well , and need a change , '' she said . 
He examined her . 
He discovered she had experienced a change , at any rate . 
Without his being aware of it , the rose had dwindled and faded to a mere snowdrop : bloom had vanished , flesh wasted ; she sat before him drooping , colourless , and thin . 
But for the soft expression of her brown eyes , the delicate lines of her features , and the flowing abundance of her hair , she would no longer have possessed a claim to the epithet -- pretty . 
`` While I live , you shall not turn out as a governess , Caroline . 
`` I beg you will not harass me , Caroline . 
Sympathizing was the word on Caroline 's lips , but it was not uttered : she checked herself in time : her uncle would indeed have laughed if that nambypamby word had escaped her . 
Finding her silent , he said , -- `` The fact is , you do n't know precisely what you want . '' 
asked Caroline to herself as she quitted the room . 
A week or two passed ; her bodily and mental health neither grew worse nor better . 
She was now precisely in that state , when , if her constitution had contained the seeds of consumption , decline or slow fever , those diseases would have been rapidly developed , and would soon have carried her quietly from the world . 
All this Caroline knew , partly by instinct , partly by observation : she regulated her conduct by her knowledge , keeping her pale face and wasted figure as much out of sight as she could . 
Living thus in complete seclusion , she ceased to receive intelligence of the little transactions of the neighbourhood . 
One morning her uncle came into the parlour , where she sat endeavouring to find some pleasure in painting a little group of wild flowers , gathered under a hedge at the top of the Hollow fields , and said to her in his abrupt manner : -- `` Come , child , you are always stooping over palette , or book , or sampler : leave that tinting work . 
She was not accustomed to make calls with her uncle : she never rode or walked out with him on any occasion . 
She hurriedly gathered up her materials , asking , meantime , where they were going . 
Not naturally very confident , a failure of physical strength and a depression of spirits had not tended to increase Caroline 's presence of mind and ease of manner , or to give her additional courage to face strangers , and she quailed , in spite of self-remonstrance , as she and her uncle walked up the broad , paved approach leading from the gateway of Fieldhead to its porch . 
She followed Mr. Helstone reluctantly through that porch into the sombre old vestibule beyond . 
This voice Caroline liked ; it atoned for the formal , if correct , accent and language : the lady would soon have discovered she liked it and her , and in ten minutes they would have been friends . 
There is real grace in ease of manner , and so old Helstone felt when an erect , slight girl walked up to him , retaining with her left hand her little silk apron full of flowers , and , giving him her right hand , said pleasantly : -- `` I knew you would come to see me , though you do think Mr. Yorke has made me a Jacobin . 
`` Mrs. Pryor has anticipated you , '' she replied , turning to the elder lady . 
`` Thank you , '' said the heiress , as she again held out her little apron for Caroline to heap the blossoms into it . 
`` My niece , Caroline . '' 
Caroline also looked at her hostess . 
She was not a blonde , like Caroline : clear and dark were the characteristics of her aspect as to colour : her face and brow were clear , her eyes of the darkest gray : no green lights in them , -- transparent , pure , neutral gray ; and her hair of the darkest brown . 
Her features were distinguished ; by which I do not mean that they were high , bony , and Roman , being indeed rather small and slightly marked than otherwise , but only that they were , to use a few French words , `` fins , gracieux , spirituels : '' mobile they were and speaking ; but their changes were not to be understood , nor their language interpreted all at once . 
She examined Caroline seriously , inclining her head a little to one side , with a thoughtful air . 
`` You see she is only a feeble chick , '' observed Mr. Helstone . 
`` She looks young -- younger than I . 
How old are you ? '' 
`` And I am twenty-one . '' 
She said no more ; she had now placed her flowers on the table , and was busied in arranging them . 
I will give you a nosegay , Mr. Helstone , when I have given your niece one . '' 
She had selected a little bouquet of one brilliant , and two or three delicate flowers , relieved by a spray of dark verdure : she tied it with silk from her workbox , and placed it on Caroline 's lap ; and then she put her hands behind her , and stood , bending slightly towards her guest , still regarding her , in the attitude and with something of the aspect of a grave but gallant little cavalier . 
This temporary expression of face was aided by the style in which she wore her hair , parted on one temple and brushed in a glossy sweep above the forehead , whence it fell in curls that looked natural , so free were their wavy undulations . 
`` Are you tired with your walk ? '' 
Is she always so pale ? '' 
Let me tell you , '' she continued , turning again to Caroline , `` that you also ought to thank my governess ; it is not every one she would welcome as she has welcomed you : you are distinguished more than you think . 
`` My uncle and he disagree on politics , '' interposed the low voice of Caroline . 
She had better not have spoken just then : having scarcely joined in the conversation before , it was not apropos to do it now : she felt this , with nervous acuteness , as soon as she had spoken , and coloured to the eyes . 
Caroline rent the Tyrian petals of the one brilliant flower in her bouquet , and answered , in distinct tones -- `` Decidedly he is . '' 
Insuperable embarrassment seized Caroline when this demand was made : she could not , and did not attempt to comply with it . 
Shirley showed she had been sincere in saying she should be glad of Caroline 's society , by frequently seeking it : and , indeed , if she had not sought it , she would not have had it ; for Miss Helstone was slow to make fresh acquaintance . 
`` Yes , I shall go to the Rectory , and seek and find Caroline Helstone , and make her take some exercise : she shall have a breezy walk over Nunnely Common . '' 
`` If you go in that direction , my dear , have the goodness to remind Miss Helstone to wrap up well , as there is a fresh wind , and she appears to me to require care . '' 
Shirely easily persuaded Caroline to go with her ; and when they were fairly out on the quiet road , traversing the extensive and solitary sweep of Nunnely Common , she as easily drew her into conversation . 
The first feelings of diffidence overcome , Caroline soon felt glad to talk with Miss Keeldar . 
`` I know how the heath would look on such a day , '' said Caroline ; `` purple-black : a deeper shade of the sky-tint , and that would be livid . '' 
Hereupon Caroline presented her hand , which was accordingly taken and shaken . 
`` We will go -- you and I alone , Caroline -- to that wood , early some fine summer morning , and spend a long day there . 
`` Indeed , I know of none about our own ages -- no lady at least , and as to gentlemen -- '' `` An excursion becomes quite a different thing when there are gentlemen of the party , '' interrupted Caroline . 
`` Our power of being happy lies a good deal in ourselves , I believe , '' remarked Caroline , sagely . 
`` I wonder we do n't all make up our minds to remain single , '' said Caroline : `` we should if we listened to the wisdom of experience . 
`` But , Caroline , men are not all like your uncle : surely not -- I hope not . '' 
`` I suppose we each find an exception in the one we love , till we are married , '' suggested Caroline . 
I do n't think we should trust to what they call passion , at all , Caroline . 
`` He has all that , Caroline . 
There is charm in beauty for itself , Caroline ; when it is blent with goodness , there is a powerful charm . '' 
Caroline Helstone -- if you really are what at present to me you seem -- you and I will suit . 
Mrs. Pryor seemed as well-disposed to cultivate Caroline 's acquaintance as Shirley . 
Caroline marvelled somewhat at this unusual want of self-command in a lady of her years , and also at the lack of real strength in one who appeared almost robust : for Mrs. Pryor hastened to allege the fatigue of her walk , the heat of the sun , & c. , as reasons for her temporary indisposition ; and still , as , with more hurry than coherence , she again and again enumerated these causes of exhaustion , Caroline gently sought to relieve her by opening her shawl and removing her bonnet . 
Caroline felt it pleasant to listen to her : more pleasant than she could have anticipated . 
Caroline expressed her sense of such kindness . 
Observing that Mrs. Pryor again glanced with an air of interest towards the portraits , as she walked down the room , Caroline casually explained : -- `` The likeness that hangs near the window , you will see , is my uncle , taken twenty years ago ; the other , to the left of the mantelpiece , is his brother James , my father . '' 
inquired Caroline , accompanying her to the door . 
I have intimated that she was a peculiar personage ; and in nothing was her peculiarity more shown than in the nature of the interest she evinced for Caroline . 
She watched all her movements : she seemed as if she would have guarded all her steps : it gave her pleasure to be applied to by Miss Helstone for advice and assistance ; she yielded her aid , when asked , with such quiet yet obvious enjoyment , that Caroline ere long took delight in depending on her . 
No matter that she perseveringly wore old-fashioned gowns ; that her speech was formal , and her manner cool ; that she had twenty little ways such as nobody else had -- she was still such a stay , such a counsellor , so truthful , so kind in her way , that , in Caroline 's idea , none once accustomed to her presence could easily afford to dispense with it . 
As to dependency or humiliation , Caroline did not feel it in her intercourse with Shirley , and why should Mrs. Pryor ? 
In Caroline , Miss Keeldar had first taken an interest because she was quiet , retiring , looked delicate , and seemed as if she needed some one to take care of her . 
Caroline 's instinct of taste , too , was like her own : such books as Miss Keeldar had read with the most pleasure , were Miss Helstone 's delight also . 
Caroline , she found , felt the value of the true ore , and knew the deception of the flashy dross . 
Caroline , withdrawn to the farthest and darkest end of the room , her figure just discernible by the ruby shine of the flameless fire , was pacing to and fro , murmuring to herself fragments of well-remembered poetry . 
And as it was nearly dark , and , after all , Miss Keeldar was no formidable auditor , Caroline went through it . 
She went through it as she should have gone through it . 
The wild sea , the drowning mariner , the reluctant ship swept on in the storm , you heard were realized by her ; and more vividly was realized the heart of the poet , who did not weep for the `` The Castaway , '' but who , in an hour of tearless anguish , traced a semblance to his own God-abandoned misery in the fate of that man-forsaken sailor , and cried from the depths where he struggled : -- `` No voice divine the storm allayed , No light propitious shone , When , snatched from all effectual aid , We perished -- each alone ! 
`` I hope William Cowper is safe and calm in heaven now , '' said Caroline . 
You managed to recite it with a steady voice , Caroline : I wonder threat . '' 
`` You never would have loved Cowper , '' rejoined Caroline , promptly : `` he was not made to be loved by woman . '' 
`` Do you like characters of the Rousseau order , Caroline ? '' 
Caroline , determined not to err on the flattering side in estimating her cousin 's regard for her , always now habitually thought of it and mentioned it in the most scanty measure . 
She had her own reasons for being less sanguine than ever in hopeful views of the future : less indulgent to pleasurable retrospections of the past . 
`` Caroline , '' demanded Miss Keeldar , abruptly , `` do n't you wish you had a profession -- a trade ? '' 
`` You might be an old maid yourself , Caroline , you speak so earnestly . '' 
`` Yes : it is sometimes used as the abbreviation of Caroline in his native country . '' 
`` Caroline ! '' 
Miss Keeldar happened to be near it at the moment , Caroline at the other end of the room : she saw a note put into Shirley 's hands , and heard the words -- `` From Mr. Moore , ma'am . '' 
Caroline sat expectant . 
`` A communication on business , '' said the heiress ; but when candles were brought , she neither opened nor read it . 
Often , after an active morning , she would spend a sunny afternoon in lying stirless on the turf , at the foot of some tree of friendly umbrage : no society did she need but that of Caroline , and it sufficed if she were within call ; no spectacle did she ask but that of the deep blue sky , and such cloudlets as sailed afar and aloft across its span ; no sound but that of the bee 's hum , the leaf 's whisper . 
Her sole book in such hours was the dim chronicle of memory , or the sybil page of anticipation ; from her young eyes fell on each volume a glorious light to read by ; round her lips at moments played a smile which revealed glimpses of the tale or prophecy : it was not sad , not dark . 
Fate had been benign to the blissful dreamer , and promised to favour her yet again . 
In her past were sweet passages ; in her future rosy hopes . 
Yet one day when Caroline drew near to rouse her , thinking she had lain long enough , behold , as she looked down , Shirley 's cheek was wet as if with dew : those fine eyes of hers shone humid and brimming . 
asked Caroline , involuntarily laying stress on you . 
Caroline it seems can not , for she lingers . 
`` But I used to be closer to him , '' thought Caroline : `` he felt no obligation to treat me with homage ; I needed only kindness . 
Caroline would not stay to listen : she passed away noiselessly , and the moonlight kissed the wall which her shadow had dimmed . 
`` You are a lady-like little person , Caroline : is she not , Mrs. Pryor ? '' 
On the present occasion she only swept Caroline 's curls from her cheek as she took a seat near her , caressed the oval outline , and observed , -- `` You get somewhat thin , my love , and somewhat pale . 
`` I sometimes dream melancholy dreams , '' answered Caroline ; `` and if I lie awake for an hour or two in the night , I am continually thinking of the Rectory as a dreary old place . 
`` Fine weather , pleasant days , pleasant scenes are powerless to give me pleasure , '' continued Caroline . 
At which words Miss Keeldar put her hand into Caroline 's with an impulsively affectionate movement , which was well seconded by the expression of her face . 
Drink some tea , Caroline : eat something -- you eat nothing ; laugh and be cheerful , and stay at home . '' 
So her friends thought , and , as far as their lights enabled them to see , they reasoned correctly : but of Caroline 's strange sufferings , which she desired so eagerly to overcome or escape , they had no idea , -- of her racked nights and dismal days , no suspicion . 
It was at once impossible and hopeless to explain : to wait and endure was her only plan . 
Many that want food and clothing have cheerier lives and brighter prospects than she had ; many , harassed by poverty , are in a strait less afflictive . 
Had she been alone with Caroline , she might possibly have said something to the point : Miss Keeldar 's presence , accustomed as she was to it , sealed her lips . 
And should we not be happy , Caroline , in the Highlands ? 
`` I should like it much , '' returned Caroline ; to whom , indeed , the notion of such a tour was not only pleasant , but gloriously reviving . 
This summer -- Caroline , Mrs. Pryor , and I go out into the North Atlantic , beyond the Shetland -- perhaps to the Faroe Isles . 
Caroline is laughing , Mrs. Pryor : I made her laugh ; I have done her good . '' 
''' `` I hope our bark will meet with no such shoal , or herd , as you term it , Caroline : -LRB- I suppose you fancy the sea-mammoths pasturing about the bases of the ` everlasting hills , ' devouring strange provender in the vast valleys through and above which seabillows roll -RRB- . 
Are you not glad , Caroline , when at last , and with a wild shriek , she dives ? '' 
Then he looked at Caroline -- not , however , for the first time -- his glance had fallen upon her before : he bent towards her as she sat , gave her his hand , and asked her how she was . 
He could not , by looking straight before him , see Caroline , as she was close at his side ; it was necessary , therefore , to manoeuvre a little to get her well within the range of his observation : he leaned back in his chair , and looked down on her . 
Sitting in the shade , without flowers or ornaments , her attire the modest muslin dress , colourless but for its narrow stripe of pale azure , her complexion unflushed , unexcited , the very brownness of her hair and eyes invisible by this faint light , she was , compared with the heiress , as a graceful pencil-sketch compared with a vivid painting . 
Since Robert had seen her last , a great change had been wrought in her ; whether he perceived it , might not be ascertained : he said nothing to that effect . 
asked Caroline , softly . 
And Caroline made no answer to this observation ; for indeed her heart was troubled , and to her eyes she would have raised her handkerchief , if she had dared . 
If she had dared , too , she would have declared how the very flowers in the garden of Hollow 's cottage were dear to her ; how the little parlour of that house was her earthly paradise ; how she longed to return to it , as much almost as the First Woman , in her exile , must have longed to revisit Eden . 
Neither Caroline nor Mrs. Pryor asked questions : the subject did not appear to be regarded as one ripe for free discussion ; therefore the lady and her tenant were suffered to keep details to themselves , unimportuned by the curiosity of their listeners . 
What I have just said are Caroline 's ideas of the pair : she felt what has just been described . 
In thus feeling , she tried not to suffer ; but suffered sharply , nevertheless . 
She suffered , indeed , miserably : a few minutes before , her famished heart had tasted a drop and crumb of nourishment that , if freely given , would have brought back abundance of life where life was failing ; but the generous feast was snatched from her , spread before another , and she remained but a bystander at the banquet . 
The clock struck nine : it was Caroline 's time for going home : she gathered up her work , put the embroidery , the scissors , the thimble into her bag : she bade Mrs. Pryor a quiet good-night , receiving from that lady a warmer pressure of the hand than usual : she stepped up to Miss Keeldar . 
`` Yes , '' said Caroline ; `` I have not forgotten . '' 
Her mind misgave her that neither those plans nor any other could permanently restore her mental tranquility . 
She turned to Robert , who stood close behind her : as he looked up , the light of the candles on the mantelpiece fell full on her face : all its paleness , all its change , all its forlorn meaning were clearly revealed . 
`` Good-night ! '' 
she said , shaking like a leaf , offering her thin hand hastily , anxious to part from him quickly . 
he asked , not touching her hand . 
Caroline spoke of unnecessary trouble : he told her to put on her bonnet and shawl . 
Moore drew her hand under his arm , just in his old manner , -- that manner which she ever felt to be so kind . 
`` You may run on , Fanny , '' he said to the house-maid ; `` we shall overtake you : '' and when the girl had got a little in advance , he enclosed Caroline 's hand in his , and said he was glad to find she was a familiar guest at Fieldhead : he hoped her intimacy with Miss Keeldar would continue ; such society would be both pleasant and improving . 
Caroline replied that she liked Shirley . 
And , Caroline , are we never to see you at Hollow 's cottage again ? '' 
`` Nothing , Robert ; '' but her voice faltered . 
`` It is two months , I should think , Caroline , since you were at the cottage . '' 
Henceforth , when sitting in the counting-house by myself , perhaps at dead of night , I shall permit myself to imagine that Caroline may be leaning over my shoulder reading with me from the same book , or sitting at my side engaged in her own particular task , and now and then raising her unseen eyes to my face to read there my thoughts . '' 
Caroline said this because Moore was turning her round towards it . 
added Caroline hastily , `` I hear the front door -- '' `` I do n't want to go ; on the contrary , I want to stay . '' 
`` You remember what he did to Fanny 's -- '' began Caroline , and stopped abruptly short . 
Sweetheart was the word that ought to have followed , but she could not utter it ; it seemed calculated to suggest ideas she had no intention to suggest : ideas delusive and disturbing . 
Moore covered her clasped hands an instant with his , answered her upward by a downward gaze , said `` Good-night ! '' 
Caroline was in a moment at the kitchen-door behind Fanny ; the shadow of the shovel-hat at that very instant fell on a moonlit tomb ; the Rector emerged , erect as a cane , from his garden , and proceeded in slow march , his hands behind him , down the cemetery . 
was her address to Caroline as she entered the room . 
`` A pretty expression you have in your countenance , '' she went on , still gazing keenly , though not inimically , rather indeed pityingly at Caroline . 
`` You do n't ask me why , '' she proceeded , after a pause , `` you little , silent , over-modest thing ; and you do n't deserve that I should pour out my secrets into your lap without an invitation . 
`` You are mistaken , '' urged Caroline , in some anxiety : `` Robert is no puppy or male flirt ; I can vouch for that . '' 
But at this moment the Rector came in , and the `` something else '' of which Miss Keeldar was about to talk was not again alluded to till the moment of her departure ; she then delayed a few minutes in the passage to say -- `` Caroline , I wish to tell you that I have a great weight on my mind : my conscience is quite uneasy , as if I had committed , or was going to commit , a crime . 
On the morrow , Caroline found Shirley sitting gravely at her desk , with an account-book , a bundle of bank-notes , and a well-filled purse before her . 
Caroline , you may laugh at me , but you ca n't change me . 
You have twice -- ten times my strength of mind on certain subjects , Caroline : you , whom no persuasions can induce to pass a bull , however quiet he looks , would have firmly shown my housekeeper she had done wrong ; then you would have gently and wisely admonished her ; and at last , I daresay , provided she had seemed penitent , you would have very sweetly forgiven her . 
Without another word , Caroline put on her bonnet and departed . 
It may , perhaps , appear strange that neither she nor Shirley thought of consulting Mrs. Pryor on their scheme ; but they were wise in abstaining . 
To have consulted her -- and this they knew by instinct -- would only have been to involve her in painful embarrassment . 
It was with some horror Miss Ainley heard this language : Caroline , however , interposing with a mild word or two in praise of Mr. Sweeting , calmed her again . 
Mr. Hall she left to Caroline -- or rather , it was to Caroline 's care Mr. Hall consigned himself . 
He generally sought Caroline in every party where she and he happened to be . 
Caroline could talk , too , in a tête-à-tête : she liked Mr. Hall to come and take the seat next her in a party , and thus secure her from Peter Augustus Malone , Joseph Donne , or John Sykes ; and Mr. Hall never failed to avail himself of this privilege when he possibly could . 
Besides , he had known Caroline as a pretty little girl : she had sat on his knee many a time ; he had bought her toys and given her books ; he felt that her friendship for him was mixed with a sort of filial respect ; he could not have brought himself to attempt to give another colour to her sentiments , and his serene mind could glass a fair image without feeling its depths troubled by the reflection . 
The next day Shirley expressed to Caroline how delighted she felt that the little party had gone off so well . 
Did you ever find out his accessible point , Caroline ? 
You have seen more of him than I. '' `` It is not , at any rate , that of my uncle and Dr. Boultby , '' returned Caroline , smiling . 
This question was a specimen of one of Shirley 's sharp , sudden turns : Caroline used to be fluttered by them at first , but she had now got into the way of parrying these homethrusts like a little quakeress . 
In what way does it pique you ? '' 
However , Shirley took pity : she ceased to laugh ; and Caroline was too true a lady to smile even at any one under mortification . 
For the sake of air , as it appeared , or perhaps for that of ready exit in case of some new emergency arising , he took his seat -- not on the sofa , where Miss Keeldar offered him enthronization , nor yet near the fireside , to which Caroline , by a friendly sign , gently invited him , -- but on a chair close to the door . 
The second performance sent Shirley to the window to laugh her silent but irrepressible laugh unseen : it turned Caroline 's head aside , that her long curls might screen the smile mantling on her features . 
Mr. Hall 's eyes beamed benignantly through his spectacles : his plain face looked positively handsome with goodness , and when Caroline , seeing who was come , ran out to meet him , and put both her hands into his , he gazed down on her with a gentle , serene , affectionate expression , that gave him the aspect of a smiling Melancthon . 
Miss Keeldar gathered handfuls of the profusely blooming flowers , whose perfume filled the enclosure ; she gave some to Caroline , telling her to choose a nosegay for Mr. Hall ; and with her lap filled with delicate and splendid blossoms , Caroline sat down on the steps of a summer-house : the Vicar stood near her , leaning on his cane . 
Donne and Malone , indeed , contributed but little to its vivacity , the chief part they played in it being what concerned the knife , fork , and wineglass ; but where four such natures , as Mr. Hall , David Sweeting , Shirley , and Caroline , were assembled in health and amity , on a green lawn , under a sunny sky , amidst a wilderness of flowers , there could not be ungenial dulness . 
Caroline he knew would be at her post as teacher , he said , and he hoped Miss Keeldar would not be wanting : he hoped she would make her first public appearance amongst them at that time . 
`` And , '' said Caroline , `` you will promise to come to my table , and to sit near me , Mr. Hall ? '' 
`` I was very grateful to you , '' interposed Caroline . 
`` And he has been my friend ever since , '' said Caroline . 
The next thing I do for her will be to marry her some day to some curate or mill-owner : but mind , Caroline , I shall inquire about the bridegroom 's character , and if he is not a gentleman likely to render happy the little girl who walked with me hand in hand over Nunnely Common , I will not officiate : so take care . '' 
Now , '' said Caroline , who had kept the nosegay she had selected for him till this moment , `` you do n't care for a bouquet , but you must give it to Margaret : only -- to be sentimental for once -- keep that little forget-me-not , which is a wild-flower I gathered from the grass ; and -- to be still more sentimental -- let me take two or three of the blue blossoms and put them in my souvenir . '' 
And she took out a small book with enamelled cover and silver clasp , wherein , having opened it , she inserted the flowers , writing round them in pencil -- `` To be kept for the sake of the Rev. Cyril Hall , my friend . 
The Rev. Cyril Hall , on his part also , placed a sprig in safety between the leaves of a pocket Testament : he only wrote on the margin -- `` Caroline . '' 
Miss Keeldar , '' he continued -LRB- the curates , by-the-bye , during this conversation , were too much occupied with their own jokes to notice what passed at the other end of the table -RRB- , `` I hope you are laughing at this trait of ` exaltation ` in the old gray-headed Vicar ; but , the fact is , I am so used to comply with the requests of this young friend of yours , I do n't know how to refuse her when she tells me to do anything . 
`` He is naturally rather sentimental , '' remarked Caroline : `` Margaret told me so , and I know what pleases him . '' 
This notable anniversary had always hitherto been a trying day to Caroline Helstone , because it dragged her perforce into public , compelling her to face all that was wealthy , respectable , influential in the neighbourhood ; in whose presence , but for the kind countenance of Mr. Hall , she would have appeared unsupported . 
Obliged to be conspicuous ; obliged to walk at the head of her regiment , as the Rector 's niece , and first teacher of the first class ; obliged to make tea at the first table for a mixed multitude of ladies and gentlemen ; and to do all this without the countenance of mother , aunt , or other chaperon -- she , meantime , being a nervous person , who mortally feared publicity -- it will be comprehended that , under these circumstances , she trembled at the approach of Whitsuntide . 
The only fear was , lest the heiress should not be punctual to tryste : she often had a careless way of lingering behind time , and Caroline knew her uncle would not wait a second for any one : at the moment of the church-clock tolling two , the bells would clash out and the march begin . 
She must look after Shirley , then , in this matter , or her expected companion would fail her . 
Whit-Tuesday saw her rise almost with the sun . 
Away Caroline went , across some very sequestered fields and through some quite hidden lanes , to Fieldhead . 
There was no dust -- no moisture -- to soil the hem of her stainless garment , or to damp her slender sandal : after the late rains all was clean , and under the present glowing sun all was dry ; she walked fearlessly , then , on daisy and turf , and through thick plantations ; she reached Fieldhead , and penetrated to Miss Keeldar 's dressing-room . 
Caroline wasted no words : she immediately took the book from her , and , with her own hands , commenced the business of disrobing and re-robing her . 
Shirley , indolent with the heat , and gay with her youth and pleasurable nature , wanted to talk , laugh , and linger ; but Caroline , intent on being in time , persevered in dressing her as fast as fingers could fasten strings or insert pins . 
At length , as she united a final row of hooks and eyes , she found leisure to chide her , saying , she was very naughty to be so unpunctual ; that she looked even now the picture of incorrigible carelessness : and so Shirley did -- but a very lovely picture of that tire-some quality . 
She presented quite a contrast to Caroline : there was style in every fold of her dress and every line of her figure : the rich silk suited her better than a simpler costume ; the deep-embroidered scarf became her ; she wore it negligently , but gracefully ; the wreath on her bonnet crowned her well : the attention to fashion , the tasteful appliance of ornament in each portion of her dress , were quite in place with her : all this suited her , like the frank light in her eyes , the raillying smile about her lips , like her shaft-straight carriage and lightsome step . 
Caroline took her hand when she was dressed , hurried her down-stairs , out of doors , and thus they sped through the fields , laughing as they went , and looking very much like a snow-white dove and gem-tinted bird-of-paradise joined in social flight . 
Caroline , too , is pleased ; for she also has done good in her small way ; robbed herself of more than one dress , ribbon , or collar she could ill spare , to aid in fitting out the scholars of her class ; and , as she could not give money , she has followed Miss Ainley 's example , in giving her time and her industry to sew for the children . 
Caroline and Shirley were soon in the midst of the company ; the former met them very easily for her : instead of sitting down in a retired corner , or stealing away to her own room till the procession should be marshalled , according to her wont , she moved through the three parlours , conversed and smiled , absolutely spoke once or twice ere she was spoken to , and , in short , seemed a new creature . 
said Shirley to Caroline . 
The large morocco-covered easy chair had been left vacant for Dr. Boultby ; he was put into it , and Caroline , obeying the instigations of Shirley , who told her now was the time to play the hostess , hastened to hand to her uncle 's vast , revered , and , on the whole , worthy friend , a glass of wine and a plate of macaroons . 
Of Caroline he took no manner of notice as she came near , save to accept what she offered : he did not see her , he never did see her : he hardly knew that such a person existed . 
To him Caroline turned her attention with pleasure . 
He must not help himself -- he must be served by her ; '' and she provided herself with a little salver , that she might offer him variety . 
`` Caroline Helstone and Shirley Keeldar head Briarfield . '' 
To Caroline , she murmured , `` I 'll borrow of imagination what reality will not give me . 
interrupted Caroline . 
`` I see , '' she said : then added , presently ; `` there is a line of red . 
They are soldiers -- cavalry soldiers , '' she subjoined quickly : `` they ride fast ; there are six of them : they will pass us : no -- they have turned off to the right : they saw our procession , and avoid it by making a circuit . 
`` If you wanted a battle , you are likely to get one , -- at least of looks , '' whispered Caroline , laughing . 
Mr. Hall had taken care of Caroline , and Caroline of him : he and Miss Ainley made their own quiet comments to each other afterwards on the incident . 
Caroline , as the Rector 's niece , took her place at one of the three first tables ; Mrs. Boultby and Margaret Hall officiated at the others . 
The room was filling : Mr. Hall had taken his post beside Caroline , who now , as she re-arranged the cups and spoons before her , whispered to him in a low voice remarks on the events of the day . 
Caroline noticed this manege at last , and asked her what friend she expected . 
Caroline 's ears yet rung with that thrilling whisper , `` I expect Mr. Moore , '' her heart yet beat and her cheek yet glowed with it , when a note from the organ pealed above the confused hum of the place . 
Dr. Boultby , Mr. Helstone , and Mr. Hall rose , so did all present , and grace was sung to the accompaniment of the music ; and then tea began . 
She was kept too busy with her office for a while to have leisure for looking round , but the last cup being filled , she threw a restless glance over the room . 
There were some ladies and several gentlemen standing about yet unaccommodated with seats : amidst a group she recognised her spinster friend , Miss Mann , whom the fine weather had tempted , or some urgent friend had persuaded , to leave her drear solitude for one hour of social enjoyment . 
Caroline knew well that `` chapeau en satin jaune ; '' she knew the black hair , and the kindly , though rather opinionated and froward-looking face under it ; she knew that `` robe de soie noire ; '' she knew even that `` schal gris de lin ; '' she knew , in short , Hortense Moore , and she wanted to jump up and run to her and kiss her -- to give her one embrace for her own sake , and two for her brother 's . 
She half rose , indeed , with a smothered exclamation , and perhaps -- for the impulse was very strong -- she would have run across the room , and actually saluted her , but a hand replaced her in her seat , and a voice behind her whispered : -- `` Wait till after tea , Lina , and then I 'll bring her to you . '' 
And when she could look up she did , and there was Robert himself close behind , smiling at her eagerness , looking better than she had ever seen him look -- looking , indeed , to her partial eyes , so very handsome , that she dared not trust herself to hazard a second glance ; for his image struck on her vision with painful brightness , and pictured itself on her memory as vividly as if there daguerreotyped by a pencil of keen lightning . 
Robert Moore had risen when she did -- perhaps he meant to speak to her ; but there was yet a parting word to exchange with Miss Keeldar , and while it was being uttered , Caroline had vanished . 
Hortense received her former pupil with a demeanour of more dignity than warmth : she had been seriously offended by Mr. Helstone 's proceedings , and had all along considered Caroline to blame , in obeying her uncle too literally . 
`` You are a very great stranger , '' she said , austerely , as her pupil held and pressed her hand . 
The pupil knew her too well to remonstrate or complain of coldness ; she let the punctilious whim pass , sure that her natural bonté -LRB- I use this French word , because it expresses just what I mean ; neither goodness nor good nature , but something between the two -RRB- would presently get the upper-hand . 
Kissing her on both cheeks , she asked anxiously after her health : Caroline answered gaily . 
It would , however , have been her lot to undergo a long cross-examination , followed by an endless lecture on this head , had not Miss Mann called off the attention of the questioner , by requesting to be conducted home . 
The poor invalid was already fatigued : her weariness made her cross -- too cross almost to speak to Caroline ; and besides , that young person 's white dress and lively look were displeasing in the eyes of Miss Mann : the everyday garb of brown stuff or gray gingham , and the everyday air of melancholy , suited the solitary spinster better : she would hardly know her young friend to-night , and quitted her with a cool nod . 
Caroline now looked round for Shirley . 
She saw the rainbow scarf and purple dress in the centre of a throng of ladies , all well-known to herself , but all of the order whom she systematically avoided whenever avoidance was possible . 
Shyer at some moments than at others , she felt just now no courage at all to join this company : she could not , however , stand alone where all others went in pairs or parties , so she approached a group of her own scholars , great girls , or rather young women , who were standing watching some hundreds of the younger children playing at blind-man 's - buff . 
Mr. Sam Wynne coming up with great haste , to insist on the elder girls joining in the game as well as the younger ones , Caroline was again left alone . 
`` Let us go to the top of the fields , '' she said : `` I know you do n't like crowds , Caroline . '' 
And as Caroline asked the question , she looked not over the fields , but into Miss Keeldar 's eyes , as was her wont whenever Shirley mentioned any object she descried afar . 
Her friend had quicker vision than herself ; and Caroline seemed to think that the secret of her eagle acuteness might be read in her dark gray irids : or rather , perhaps , she only sought guidance by the direction of those discriminating and brilliant spheres . 
asked Caroline , whose eye had at last caught the object it sought . 
`` And he has not bid us good-bye , '' murmured Caroline . 
Scarcely had the words escaped her lips , when she tried by a smile to deny the confession of disappointment they seemed to imply . 
An unbidden suffusion for one moment both softened and brightened her eyes . 
Caroline said this as Miss Keeldar seized her arm , and hurried her down the fields . 
It was vain to contend : nothing was so wilful as Shirley , when she took a whim into her head : Caroline found herself out of sight of the crowd almost before she was aware , and ushered into a narrow shady spot , embowered above with hawthorns , and enamelled under foot with daisies . 
She took no notice of the evening sun chequering the turf nor was she sensible of the pure incense exhaling at this hour from tree and plant ; she only heard the wicket opening at one end , and knew Robert was approaching . 
At a glance Caroline perceived that his social hilarity was gone : he had left it behind him in the joy-echoing fields round the school ; what remained now was his dark , quiet , business countenance . 
So much the worse-timed was the present freak of Shirley 's : if he had looked disposed for holiday mirth , it would not have mattered much , but now -- `` I told you not to come , '' said Caroline , somewhat bitterly , to her friend . 
She seemed truly perturbed : to be intruded on Robert thus , against her will and his expectation , and when he evidently would rather not be delayed , keenly annoyed her . 
`` Yes , and to Caroline , likewise . 
He would have taken Caroline 's hand and joined it in the same clasp in which he held Shirley 's , but somehow it was not ready for him ; she had withdrawn a few steps apart : her answer to Moore 's adieu was only a slight bend of the head , and a gentle , serious smile . 
Is love , in your eyes , a crime , Caroline ? '' 
Caroline first resumed . 
`` You describe three-fourths of the world , Caroline . '' 
said Caroline . 
Caroline , I see her ! 
and I will tell you what she is like : she is like what Eve was when she and Adam stood alone on earth . '' 
`` Caroline , I will not : I will stay out here with my mother Eve , in these days called Nature . 
Hush , Caroline ! 
Miss Keeldar , on whom the soft excitement of the warm summer evening seemed working with unwonted power , leaned against an upright headstone : she fixed her eyes on the deep-burning west , and sank into a pleasurable trance . 
Caroline , going a little apart , paced to and fro beneath the Rectory garden-wall , dreaming , too , in her way . 
Shirley had mentioned the word `` mother : '' that word suggested to Caroline 's imagination not the mighty and mystical parent of Shirley 's visions , but a gentle human form -- the form she ascribed to her own mother ; unknown , unloved , but not unlonged-for . 
The desire which many a night had kept her awake in her crib , and which fear of its fallacy had of late years almost extinguished , relit suddenly , and glowed warm in her heart : that her mother might come some happy day , and send for her to her presence -- look upon her fondly with loving eyes , and say to her tenderly , in a sweet voice : -- `` Caroline , my child , I have a home for you ; you shall live with me . 
A noise on the road roused Caroline from her filial hopes , and Shirley from her Titan visions . 
Caroline he had known from her childhood : unconsciously , she was his ideal of a lady . 
Her gentle mien , step , gestures , her grace of person and attire , moved some artist-fibres about his peasant heart : he had a pleasure in looking at her , as he had in examining rare flowers , or in seeing pleasant landscapes . 
`` But you are proud in your own way yourself , '' interposed Caroline : `` you are what you call house-proud ; you like to have everything handsome about you : sometimes you look as if you were almost too proud to take your wages . 
exclaimed Caroline , warmly . 
`` He may read it in his own fashion , '' remarked Caroline , now joining in the dialogue for the first time . 
exclaimed both Shirley and Caroline . 
`` There will be just light enough to show me the way home , '' said Miss Keeldar , as she prepared to take leave of Caroline at the Rectory garden-door . 
Caroline , come here ! '' 
Caroline came , expecting as Shirley did , a lecture on not having been visible at church . 
Will you favour Caroline so far as to be her guest for one night ? 
It grows late ; the dew falls heavily : you and Caroline will enjoy each other 's society I doubt not . '' 
`` I promise you then to stay with Caroline , '' replied Shirley . 
`` It will suit Caroline ; but you must give me a brace of pistols : I know you have pistols . '' 
Entering the house , they repaired to the darkened dining-room , through the open windows of which apartment stole the evening air , bearing the perfume of flowers from the garden , the very distant sound of far-retreating steps from the road , and a soft , vague murmur , whose origin Caroline explained by the remark , uttered as she stood listening at the casement : `` Shirley , I hear the beck in the Hollow . '' 
Then she rung the bell , asked for a candle and some bread and milk -- Miss Keeldar 's usual supper and her own . 
They took their meal in silence : Caroline rose once , to remove to the window-sill a glass of flowers which stood on the side-board ; the exhalation from the blossoms being somewhat too powerful for the sultry room : in returning , she half opened a drawer , and took from it something that glittered clear and keen in her hand . 
Ere long the maids ' chamber-door was heard to close : Caroline took a candle , and went quietly all over the house , seeing that every window was fast and every door barred . 
These visited , she returned . 
`` There is neither spirit nor flesh in the house at present , '' she said , `` which should not be there . 
Here , '' she continued , `` I have brought the brace of pistols from my uncle 's study : you may examine them at your leisure . '' 
She placed them on the table before her friend . 
`` Caring nothing about them -- hoping and fearing nothing for them , '' added Caroline . 
Caroline rose , and made her way noiselessly through the dark passages to the kitchen , intending to appease him with a piece of bread : she succeeded . 
On returning to the dining-room , she found it all dark , Miss Keeldar having extinguished the candle : the outline of her shape was visible near the still open window , leaning out . 
Caroline would not have quitted the house had she been alone , but where Shirley went she would go . 
Caroline repeated the ejaculation , not in so steady a tone : she was trembling much ; her heart was beating fast and thick ; her face was cold ; her forehead damp . 
`` Thank God for us ! '' 
After a second pause , she continued : `` What is it my duty and wisdom to do next ? 
`` Yes , '' was the answer , given mechanically , not because the speaker wished , or was prepared to go ; or , indeed , was otherwise than scared at the prospect of going , but because she felt she could not abandon Shirley . 
Caroline rapidly closed shutter and lattice . 
Caroline , more timid , and less dexterous , fell once or twice , and bruised herself ; but she rose again directly , saying she was not hurt . 
Shirley had trodden the plank successfully and fearlessly many a time before : Caroline had never yet dared to risk the transit . 
`` If I fall in , you may fish me out , '' was the answer , as a grateful squeeze compressed her hand . 
Caroline , without pausing , trod forward on the trembling plank as if it were a continuation of the firm turf : Shirley , who followed , did not cross it more resolutely or safely . 
Caroline sped like levelled shaft from bent bow ; after her rang a jesting , gibing laugh . 
Caroline slowly returned . 
`` It is not Robert , '' she said : `` it has neither his height , form , nor bearing . '' 
Caroline rose ; Shirley put her arm round her : they stood together as still as the straight stems of two trees . 
whispered Caroline . 
`` He has been forbearing ; no one can accuse him of rashness , '' alleged Caroline : `` their discharge preceded his ; they broke his gates and his windows ; they fired at his garrison before he repelled them . '' 
Both the girls felt their faces glow and their pulses throb : both knew they would do no good by rushing down into the melée : they desired neither to deal nor to receive blows ; but they could not have run away -- Caroline no more than Shirley ; they could not have fainted ; they could not have taken their eyes from the dim , terrible scene -- from the mass of cloud , of smoke -- the musket-lightning -- for the world . 
`` But you could not prevent it ; you did your best ; it was in vain , '' said Caroline , comfortingly . 
`` I am sorry for those poor fellows , '' was the answer , while the spark in her glance dissolved to dew . 
`` Well , '' -LRB- resuming her former tone -RRB- , `` do n't squeeze your fingers quite into my hand : I see , there is nothing wonderful in that . 
demanded Caroline , a little passionately . 
Caroline was not yet pacified . 
`` Shirley , Shirley , I should have liked to speak one word to him before he went , '' she murmured , while the tears gathered glittering in her eyes . 
It was the best plan : in a few minutes Caroline rejoined her , much calmer : she said with her natural , docile , gentle manner -- `` Come , Shirley , we will go home now . 
`` Now , dear Lina , '' she continued ; `` let us turn our faces to the cool morning breeze , and walk very quietly back to the Rectory . 
Caroline now watched her sleeping , and read the serenity of her mind in the beauty of her happy countenance . 
For herself , being of a different temperament , she could not sleep . 
The common-place excitement of the tea-drinking and school-gathering , would alone have sufficed to make her restless all night : the effect of the terrible drama which had just been enacted before her eyes was not likely to quit her for days . 
It was vain even to try to retain a recumbent posture : she sat up by Shirley 's side , counting the slow minutes , and watching the June sun mount the heavens . 
Life wastes fast in such vigils as Caroline had of late but too often kept ; vigils during which the mind , -- having no pleasant food to nourish it -- no manna of hope -- no hived-honey of joyous memories -- tries to live on the meagre diet of wishes , and failing to derive thence either delight or support , and feeling itself ready to perish with craving want , turns to philosophy , to resolution , to resignation ; calls on all these gods for aid , calls vainly , -- is unheard , unhelped , and languishes . 
Caroline was a Christian ; therefore in trouble she framed many a prayer after the Christian creed ; preferred it with deep earnestness ; begged for patience , strength , relief . 
This world , however , we all know , is the scene of trial and probation ; and , for any favourable result her petitions had yet wrought , it seemed to her that they were unheard and unaccepted . 
She believed , sometimes , that God had turned his face from her . 
At moments she was a Calvinist , and sinking into the gulf of religious despair , she saw darkening over her the doom of reprobation . 
Caroline , as she quitted the couch , which had been but a thorny one to her , felt that revival of spirits which the return of day , of action , gives to all but the wholly despairing or actually dying : she dressed herself , as usual , carefully , trying so to arrange her hair and attire that nothing of the forlornness she felt at heart should be visible externally : she looked as fresh as Shirley when both were dressed , only that Miss Keeldar 's eyes were lively , and Miss Helstone 's languid . 
She took up the theme again five minutes after , as Caroline fastened her dreess and clasped her girdle . 
`` I wonder how Mrs. Pryor and Hortense Moore have passed the night , '' said Caroline , as she made the coffee . 
`` There are not two opinions on that head , '' said Shirley , as she tied on her own bonnet , and then ran to fetch Caroline 's . 
`` Robert will not be cruel : we saw that last night , '' said Caroline . 
`` All will be right soon : she will get over it in an hour , '' whispered Caroline to Mrs. Pryor . 
Having accompanied her to her apartment , and promised to rejoin her there when things were settled , Caroline left her to see , as she said , `` if she could be useful . '' 
She presently found that she could be very useful ; for the retinue of servants at Fieldhead was by no means numerous , and just now their mistress found plenty of occupation for all the hands at her command , and for her own also . 
The delicate good-nature and dexterous activity which Caroline brought to the aid of the house-keeper and maids , -- all somewhat scared by their lady 's unwonted mood -- did a world of good at once : it helped the assistants and appeased the directress . 
A chance glance and smile from Caroline moved Shirley to an answering smile directly . 
`` You were hurt yourself , on the temples , '' interposed a quick , low voice -- that of Caroline , who , having withdrawn within the shade of the door , and behind the large person of Mrs. Gill , had till now escaped Moore 's notice : when she spoke , his eye searched the obscurity of her retreat . 
Caroline indicated , by a slight movement of the head , that she was satisfied , and disappeared within the clear obscure of the interior . 
Mr. Hall -- your favourite parson -- has been with them ever since six o'clock , exhorting them , praying with them , and even waiting on them like any nurse ; and Caroline 's good friend , Miss Ainley , that very plain old maid , sent in a stock of lint and linen , something in the proportion of another lady 's allowance of beef and wine . '' 
`` But Caroline -- is she peculiar ? '' 
`` In her way -- yes . '' 
`` Her way ? 
What is her way ? '' 
`` You know her as well as I do . '' 
`` And knowing her , I assert that she is neither eccentric nor difficult of control : is she ? '' 
`` That depends -- '' `` However , there is nothing masculine about her ? '' 
`` Why lay such emphasis on her ? 
Do you consider her a contrast , in that respect , to yourself ? '' 
Caroline is neither masculine , nor of what they call the spirited order of women . '' 
`` I have seen her flash out . '' 
`` So have I -- but not with manly fire : it was a short , vivid , trembling glow , that shot up , shone , vanished -- '' `` And left her scared at her own daring . 
You describe others besides Caroline . '' 
While Shirley was talking with Moore , Caroline rejoined Mrs. Pryor up-stairs . 
She found that lady deeply depressed . 
She would not say that Miss Keeldar 's hastiness had hurt her feelings ; but it was evident an inward wound galled her . 
To any but a congenial nature , she would have seemed insensible to the quiet , tender attentions by which Miss Helstone sought to impart solace ; but Caroline knew that , unmoved or slightly moved as she looked , she felt , valued , and was healed by them . 
`` I am deficient in self-confidence and decision , '' she said at last . 
`` Caroline , come here , '' said a low voice . 
`` Rather out of spirits , '' said Caroline . 
Caroline discharged the errand with heart-felt pleasure . 
And that was the painful feeling which would remain on Mrs. Pryor 's mind : no effort of Shirley 's or Caroline 's could efface it thence : she could forgive her offending pupil , not her innocent self . 
The day being fine , or at least fair -- for soft clouds curtained the sun , and a dim but not chill or waterish haze slept blue on the hills -- Caroline , while Shirley was engaged with her callers , had persuaded Mrs. Pryor to assume her bonnet and summer shawl , and to take a walk with her up towards the narrow end of the Hollow . 
Mrs. Pryor liked a quiet walk : she ever shunned highroads , and sought byeways and lonely lanes : one companion she preferred to total solitude , for in solitude she was nervous : a vague fear of annoying encounters broke the enjoyment of quite lonely rambles ; but she feared nothing with Caroline : when once she got away from human habitations , and entered the still demense of Nature , accompanied by this one youthful friend , a propitious change seemed to steal over her mind and beam in her countenance . 
When with Caroline -- and Caroline only -- her heart , you would have said , shook off a burden , her brow put aside a veil , her spirits too escaped from a restraint : with her she was cheerful ; with her , at times , she was tender : to her she would impart her knowledge , reveal glimpses of her experience , give her opportunities for guessing what life she had lived , what cultivation her mind had received , of what calibre was her intelligence , how and where her feelings were vulnerable . 
All the wild flowers round their path were recognised by her : tiny plants springing near stones and peeping out of chinks in old walls -- plants such as Caroline had scarcely noticed before -- received a name and an intimation of their properties : it appeared that she had minutely studied the botany of English fields and woods . 
Having reached the head of the ravine , they sat down together on a ledge of gray and mossy rock jutting from the base of a steep green hill , which towered above them : she looked round her , and spoke of the neighbourhood as she had once before seen it long ago . 
She alluded to its changes , and compared its aspect with that of other parts of England ; revealing in quiet , unconscious touches of description , a sense of the picturesque , an appreciation of the beautiful or commonplace , a power of comparing the wild with the cultured , the grand with the tame , that gave to her discourse a graphic charm as pleasant as it was unpretending . 
The sort of reverent pleasure with which Caroline listened -- so sincere , so quiet , yet so evident , stirred the elder lady 's faculties to gentle animation . 
Rarely , probably , had she , with her chill , repellent outside -- her diffident mien and incommunicative habits , known what it was to excite in one whom she herself could love , feelings of earnest affection and admiring esteem . 
With a somewhat more marked accent of interest than she often permitted herself to use , she said , as she bent towards her youthful companion , and put aside from her forehead a pale brown curl which had strayed from the confining comb : -- `` I do hope this sweet air blowing from the hill will do you good , my dear Caroline : I wish I could see something more of colour in these cheeks -- but perhaps you were never florid ? '' 
`` That is -- the evil of the day -- that is -- your uncle perhaps is not -- you find it difficult to understand -- he does not appreciate -- '' Mrs. Pryor could not complete her broken sentences : she could not manage to put the question whether Mr. Helstone was too harsh with his niece , but Caroline comprehended . 
`` Oh , that is nothing , '' she replied ; `` my uncle and I get on very well : we never quarrel -- I do n't call him harsh -- he never scolds me . 
Since Miss Keeldar and you came , I have been -- I was going to say -- happier , but that would be untrue . '' 
Caroline came to her relief with promptitude , showing a great deal more self-possession and courage than herself on the formidable topic now broached . 
`` They do ; and naturally , '' she replied , with a calm emphasis that startled Mrs. Pryor . 
Caroline turned a searching , an eager eye on the face of her friend : that face was much agitated . 
`` My dear , '' she murmured , `` life is an illusion . '' 
`` Yes , it tortures through time , '' agreed Caroline , `` except when it is mutual love . '' 
`` But it is not always slough , '' objected Caroline : `` there are happy marriages . 
exclaimed Caroline , in a tone of dismay : `` you speak like Mrs. Yorke , in her most gloomy moments : -- like Miss Mann , when she is most sourly and hypochondriacally disposed . 
my own mother and father ... '' exclaimed Caroline , struck by a sombre recollection . 
Mrs. Pryor shrunk and shuddered as if a rude finger had pressed a naked nerve : Caroline felt she had touched what would not bear the slightest contact . 
`` But yet , '' suggested Caroline , `` not immitigably wretched ? '' 
No , '' she added , in a softer tone ; `` God mingles something of the balm of mercy even in vials of the most corrosive woe . 
I was quite aware of my own ineligibility ; and if I had not been so miserable as a governess , I nerver should have married ; and then -- '' Caroline 's eyes asked her to proceed : they entreated her to break the thick cloud of despair , which her previous words had seemed to spread over life . 
Caroline , do you refuse me ? 
And with these two abrupt questions she stopped . 
Caroline kissed her , in her gentle caressing way , saying softly -- `` I love you dearly . 
But the lady 's whole frame seemed shaken : she sat down , bent her head to her knee and wept aloud . 
Nothing could console her till the inward storm had had its way . 
`` Poor thing ! '' 
she murmured , returning Caroline 's kiss : `` poor lonely lamb ! 
But come , '' she added abruptly ; `` come , we must go home . '' 
While the summer thus passed with Moore , how did it lapse with Shirley and Caroline ? 
How does she look ? 
Does she sit the day long bent over some sedentary task ? 
Has she for ever a book in her hand , or sewing on her knee , and eyes only for that , and words for nothing , and thoughts unspoken ? 
Ere the month of July was passed , Miss Keeldar would probably have started with Caroline on that northern tour they had planned ; but just at that epoch an invasion befell Fieldhead : a genteel foraging party besieged Shirley in her castle , and compelled her to surrender at discretion . 
The laws of hospitality obliged her to give in , which she did with a facility which somewhat surprised Caroline , who knew her to be prompt in action and fertile in expedient , where a victory was to be gained for her will . 
Miss Helstone even asked her how it was she submitted so readily ? 
-- she answered , old feelings had their power : she had passed two years of her early youth at Sympson Grove . 
`` How did she like her relatives ? '' 
She had nothing in common with them , she replied : little Harry Sympson , indeed , the sole son of the family , was very unlike his sisters , and of him she had formerly been fond ; but he was not coming to Yorkshire : at least , not yet . 
Separated from Miss Keeldar for the present , as she could not seek her in the midst of her fine relatives ; scared away from Fieldhead by the visiting commotion which the new arrivals occasioned in the neighbourhood , Caroline was limited once more to the gray Rectory ; the solitary morning walk in remote byepaths ; the long , lonely afternoon sitting in a quiet parlour which the sun forsook at noon , or in the garden alcove where it shone bright , yet sad , on the ripening red currants trained over the trellis , and on the fair monthly roses entwined between , and through them fell chequered on Caroline sitting in her white summer dress , still as a garden statue . 
There she read old books , taken from her uncle 's library : the Greek and Latin were of no use to her ; and its collection of light literature was chiefly contained on a shelf which had belonged to her aunt Mary : some venerable Lady 's Magazines , that had once performed a sea-voyage with their owner , and undergone a storm , and whose pages were stained with salt water ; some mad Methodist Magazines , full of miracles and apparitions , of preternatural warnings , ominous dreams , and frenzied fanaticism ; the equally mad Letters of Mrs. Elizabeth Rowe from the Dead to the Living ; a few old English Classics : -- from these faded flowers Caroline had in her childhood extracted the honey , -- they were tasteless to her now . 
By way of change , and also of doing good , she would sew : make garments for the poor , according to good Miss Ainley 's direction . 
One fine summer day that Caroline had spent entirely alone -LRB- her uncle being at Whinbury -RRB- , and whose long , bright , noiseless , breezeless , cloudless hours -LRB- how many they seemed since sunrise ! -RRB- 
had been to her as desolate as if they had gone over her head in the shadowless and trackless wastes of Zahara , instead of in the blooming garden of an English home , she was sitting in the alcove , -- her task of work on her knee , her fingers assiduously plying the needle , her eyes following and regulating their movements , her brain working restlessly , -- when Fanny came to the door , looked round over the lawn and borders , and not seeing her whom she sought , called out -- `` Miss Caroline ! '' 
An affectionate billet from Hortense , informing her young cousin that she was returned from Wormwood Wells ; that she was alone to-day , as Robert was gone to Whinbury market ; that nothing would give her greater pleasure than to have Caroline 's company to tea ; and -- the good lady added -- she was sure such a change would be most acceptable and beneficial to Caroline , who must be sadly at a loss both for safe guidance and improving society since the misunderstanding between Robert and Mr. Helstone had occasioned a separation from her `` meilleure amie , Hortense Gérard Moore . '' 
In a postscript , she was urged to put on her bonnet and run down directly . 
Caroline did not need the injunction : glad was she to lay by the brown holland child 's - slip she was trimming with braid for the Jew 's - basket , to hasten up-stairs , cover her curls with her straw bonnet , and throw round her shoulders the black silk scarf , whose simple drapery suited as well her shape as its dark hue set off the purity of her dress and the fairness of her face ; glad was she to escape for a few hours the solitude , the sadness , the nightmare of her life ; glad to run down the green lane sloping to the Hollow , to scent the fragrance of hedge-flowers sweeter than the perfume of moss-rose or lily . 
True , she knew Robert was not at the cottage ; but it was delight to go where he had lately been : so long , so totally separated from him , merely to see his home , to enter the room where he had that morning sat , felt like a reunion . 
As such it revived her ; and then Illusion was again following her in Peri-mask : the soft agitation of wings caressed her cheek , and the air , breathing from the blue summer sky , bore a voice which whispered -- `` Robert may come home while you are in his house ; and then , at least , you may look in his face -- at least you may give him your hand : perhaps , for a minute , you may sit beside him . '' 
was her austere response : but she loved the comforter and the consolation . 
Miss Moore probably caught from the window the gleam and flutter of Caroline 's white attire through the branchy garden-shrubs , for she advanced from the cottage-porch to meet her . 
Straight , unbending , phlegmatic as usual , she came on : no haste or ecstacy was ever permitted to disorder the dignity of her movements ; but she smiled , well pleased to mark the delight of her pupil , to feel her kiss , and the gentle , genial strain of her embrace . 
She led her tenderly in -- half-deceived and wholly flattered . 
had it not been so , she would in all probability have put her to the wicket , and shut her out . 
Had she known clearly to whose account the chief share of this child-like joy was to be placed , Hortense would most likely have felt both shocked and incensed . 
`` You would expect to find me alone , from what I said in my note , '' observed Miss Moore , as she conducted Caroline towards the parlour ; `` but it was written this morning : since dinner , company has come in . '' 
Caroline advanced to the mighty matron with some sense of diffidence : she knew little of Mrs. Yorke ; and , as a parson 's niece , was doubtful what sort of a reception she might get . 
Caroline stole a quiet gaze towards her , dwelling on her young , absorbed countenance , and observing a certain unconscious movement of the mouth as she read , -- a movement full of character . 
Caroline had tact , and she had fine instinct : she felt that Rose Yorke was a peculiar child , -- one of the unique : she knew how to treat her . 
Approaching quietly , she knelt on the carpet at her side , and looked over her little shoulder at her book . 
Caroline read on with her , making no remark : presently Rose showed her the attention of asking , ere she turned a leaf , -- `` Are you ready ? '' 
Caroline only nodded . 
`` But , Rose , '' pursued Caroline , `` I fear a wanderer 's life , for me at least , would end like that tale you are reading , -- in disappointment , vanity , and vexation of spirit . '' 
`` But with love it need not be so very difficult , '' interposed Caroline . 
Caroline had a pleasure in saying this with emphasis : she had a pleasure in daring to say it in Mrs. Yorke 's presence . 
Caroline felt this kind language where the benevolent speaker intended she should feel it -- in her very heart . 
She could not even parry the shafts : she was defenceless for the present : to answer would have been to avow that the cap fitted . 
`` Mrs. Yorke , '' said Caroline , lifting her eyes slowly , their blue orbs at the same time clearing from trouble , and shining steady and full , while the glow of shame left her cheek , and its hue turned pale and settled : `` Mrs. Yorke , may I ask what you mean ? '' 
If at any time , in future , you evince it annoyingly , I shall answer even less scrupulously than I have done now . '' 
She ceased , and sat in white and still excitement . 
She had spoken in the clearest of tones , neither fast nor loud ; but her silver accents thrilled the ear . 
The speed of the current in her veins was just then as swift as it was viewless . 
Jessie , meantime , directed her assiduities to Caroline . 
She rated Caroline soundly for being a member of the Established Church , and for having an uncle a clergyman . 
Caroline chid her when she abused Lord Wellington ; but she listened delighted to a subsequent tirade against the Prince Regent . 
The lady and her daughters being gone , Caroline felt that she also ought to resume her scarf , kiss her cousin 's cheek , and trip away homeward . 
From no point of view could the West look so lovely as from that lattice with the garland of jessamine round it , whose white stars and green leaves seemed now but gray pencil outlines -- graceful in form , but colourless in tint -- against the gold incarnadined of a summer evening -- against the fire-tinged blue of an August sky , at eight o'clock , P.M. Caroline looked at the wicket-gate , beside which holly-oaks spired up tall ; she looked at the close hedge of privet and laurel fencing in the garden ; her eyes longed to see something more than the shrubs , before they turned from that limited prospect : they longed to see a human figure , of a certain mould and height , pass the hedge and enter the gate . 
A human figure she at last saw -- nay , two : Frederick Murgatroyd went by , carrying a pail of water ; Joe Scott followed , dangling on his forefinger the keys of the mill . 
`` So must I , '' thought Caroline , as she half rose and sighed . 
`` This is all folly -- heart-breaking folly , '' she added . 
I had better go home . '' 
She took her bonnet from the table where it lay , and was just fastening the ribbon , when Hortense , directing her attention to a splendid bouquet of flowers in a glass on the same table , mentioned that Miss Keeldar had sent them that morning from Fieldhead ; and went on to comment on the guests that lady was at present entertaining , on the bustling life she had lately been leading ; adding divers conjectures that she did not very well like it , and much wonderment that a person who was so found of her own way as the heiress , did not find some means of sooner getting rid of this cortège of relatives . 
inquired Caroline . 
Caroline , once more turning to the little mirror , was shading her ringlets from her cheek to smooth them under her cottage bonnet , certain that it would not only be useless but unpleasant to stay longer ; when , on the sudden opening of the back-door , there fell an abrupt calm in the kitchen : the tongues were checked , pulled up as with bit and bridle . 
`` Was it -- was it -- Robert ? '' 
He often -- almost always -- entered by the kitchen-way on his return from market . 
To Joe 's observations succeeded a confused sort of pause , which Caroline , though she was listening with both her ears , could not understand . 
Caroline was puzzled . 
Obeying an impulse , the wisdom of which she had not time to question , she escaped from the little parlour , by way of leaving the coast clear , and running up-stairs took up a position at the head of the banisters , whence she could make further observations ere presenting herself . 
It was considerably past sunset now : dusk filled the passage , yet not such deep dusk but that she could presently see Robert and Hortense traverse it . 
`` Caroline ! 
Caroline ! '' 
What does this unwonted excitement about such an everyday occurrence as a return from market portend ? 
She has not lost her senses , has she ? 
Surely the burnt treacle has not crazed her ? '' 
said Caroline . 
Caroline looking round , met a new Robert , -- the real Robert , as she felt at once . 
said he , smiling at her questioning , astonished face , `` which is which ? '' 
You never saw him before ; but you have heard of him . '' 
She had gathered her senses now . 
Caroline shook her head gently . 
A soft , expressive ray from her eye beamed on the real Robert : it said much . 
She was not permitted to quit her cousins soon : Robert himself was peremptory in obliging her to remain . 
Glad , simple , and affable in her demeanour -LRB- glad for this night , at least -RRB- , in light , bright spirits for the time , she was too pleasant an addition to the cottage circle to be willingly parted with by any of them . 
Louis seemed naturally rather a grave , still , retiring man , but the Caroline of this evening , which was not -LRB- as you know , reader -RRB- the Caroline of every day , thawed his reserve , and cheered his gravity soon . 
He sat near her , and talked to her . 
She already knew his vocation was that of tuition ; she learned now he had for some years been the tutor of Mr. Sympson 's son ; that he had been travelling with him , and had accompanied him to the north . 
The look woke Caroline 's ready sympathy : she thought it a very sad expression to pass over so sensible a face as Louis 's : for he had a sensible face , -- though not handsome , she considered , when seen near Robert 's . 
Robert -- perhaps aware that Caroline 's glance had wandered towards and dwelt upon him , though he had neither met nor answered it -- put down the book of engravings , and approaching , took a seat at her side . 
She resumed her conversation with Louis , but , while she talked to him , her thoughts were elsewhere : her heart beat on the side from which her face was half-averted . 
she added , appealing to Caroline . 
Caroline was obliged to reply , `` Yes '' -- and her beacon was quenched : her star withdrew , as she spoke . 
Whether he reddened or paled , Caroline did not examine : she discovered that it was late , and she must go home . 
Home she would go : not even Robert could detain her now . 
Caroline Helstone went home from Hollow 's cottage in good health , as she imagined . 
On waking the next morning , she felt oppressed with unwonted languor : at breakfast , at each meal of the following day , she missed all sense of appetite : palatable food was as ashes and sawdust to her . 
`` Am I ill ? '' 
she asked , and looked at herself in the glass . 
Her eyes were bright , their pupils dilated , her cheeks seemed rosier and fuller than usual . 
`` I look well ; why can I not eat ? '' 
She felt a pulse beat fast in her temples : she felt too her brain in strange activity : her spirits were raised : hundreds of busy and broken , but brilliant thoughts engaged her mind : a glow rested on them , such as tinged her complexion . 
Towards morning one terrible dream seized her like a tiger : when she woke , she felt and knew she was ill . 
How she had caught the fever -LRB- fever it was -RRB- , she could not tell . 
Probably in her late walk home , some sweet , poisoned breeze , redolent of honey-dew and miasma , had passed into her lungs and veins , and finding there already a fever of mental excitement , and a languor of long conflict and habitual sadness , had fanned the spark to flame , and left a well-lit fire behind it . 
It seemed , however , but a gentle fire : after two hot days and worried nights , there was no violence in the symptoms , and neither her uncle , nor Fanny , nor the doctor , nor Miss Keeldar , when she called , had any fear for her : a few days would restore her , every one believed . 
Your uncle kindly permits my attendance : will it to yourself be acceptable , Caroline ? '' 
As she performed these offices , Caroline , smiling , lifted her face to kiss her . 
`` Have you eaten anything to-day , Caroline ? '' 
`` I shall hardly wish to get well , that I may keep you always , '' said Caroline . 
Caroline was usually pained to require or receive much attendance : Mrs. Pryor , under ordinary circumstances , had neither the habit nor the art of performing little offices of service ; but all now passed with such ease -- so naturally , that the patient was as willing to be cherished as the nurse was bent on cherishing : no sign of weariness in the latter ever reminded the former that she ought to be anxious . 
At Hollow 's - cottage it was thought that Caroline had only a severe cold , she having written a note to Hortense to that effect ; and Mademoiselle contented herself with sending two pots of currant jam , a receipt for a tisane , and a note of advice . 
The `` rich and idle , '' represented in the person of Caroline , were meantime falling fast into a condition of prostration , whose quickly consummated debility puzzled all who witnessed it , except one ; for that one alone reflected how liable is the undermined structure to sink in sudden ruin . 
Sick people often have fancies inscrutable to ordinary attendants , and Caroline had one which even her tender nurse could not at first explain . 
On a certain day in the week , at a certain hour , she would -- whether worse or better -- entreat to be taken up and dressed , and suffered to sit in her chair near the window . 
This station she would retain till noon was past : whatever degree of exhaustion or debility her wan aspect betrayed , she still softly put off all persuasion to seek repose until the church-clock had duly tolled mid-day : the twelve strokes sounded , she grew docile , and would meekly lie down . 
Returned to the couch , she usually buried her face deep in the pillow , and drew the coverlets close round her , as if to shut out the world and sun , of which she was tired : more than once , as she thus lay , a slight convulsion shook the sick-bed , and a faint sob broke the silence round it . 
asked Caroline . 
Her nurse assisted her to bed : having laid her down and drawn the curtain , she stood listening near . 
A contraction as of anguish altered Mrs. Prycr 's features ; she wrung her hands ; half a groan escaped her lips . 
Caroline wore continually round her neck a slender braid of silk , attached to which was some trinket . 
Caroline looked abroad into the chamber : she thought it empty . 
As her stray ideas returned slowly , each folding its weak wings on the mind 's sad shore , like birds exhausted , -- beholding void , and perceiving silence round her , she believed herself alone . 
Collected , she was not yet : perhaps healthy self-possession and self-control were to be hers no more ; perhaps that world the strong and prosperous live in had already rolled from beneath her feet for ever : so , at least , it often seemed to herself . 
In health , she had never been accustomed to think aloud ; but now words escaped her lips unawares . 
I should see him once more before all is over : Heaven might favour me thus far ! '' 
was her humble petition . 
give me FAITH ! '' 
She fell back on her pillow . 
Caroline seemed stimulated by her presence : she assured her , smiling , she was not dangerously ill ; she talked to her in a low voice , but cheerfully : during her stay , excitement kept up the flush of her complexion : she looked better . 
After this visit , Mrs. Pryor took care not to approach Caroline 's couch for above an hour : she heard her weep , and dared not look on her tears . 
Caroline , opening her eyes from a moment 's slumber , viewed her nurse with an unrecognising glance . 
`` I am better now , '' whispered Caroline , at last , `` much better -- I feel where I am : this is Mrs. Pryor near me : I was dreaming -- I talk when I wake up from dreams : people often do in illness . 
`` I am thirsty : let me drink . '' 
`` What o'clock is it , ma'am ? '' 
`` For what , Caroline ? '' 
No wonder Caroline liked to hear her sing : her voice , even in speaking , was sweet and silver-clear ; in song , it was almost divine : neither flute nor dulcimer has tones so pure . 
Why it reminded him of his forgotten dead wife , he could not tell ; nor why it made him more concerned than he had hitherto been for Caroline 's fading girlhood . 
`` Now sing a song -- a Scottish song , '' suggested Caroline , when the hymn was over , -- ``` Ye banks and braes o'bonny Doon . 
`` You are weeping at the pathos of the air : come here , and I will comfort you ; '' said Caroline , in a pitying accent . 
`` But your mind , Caroline : your mind is crushed ; your heart is almost broken : you have been so neglected , so repulsed , left so desolate . '' 
`` You love me , Caroline ? '' 
`` I will return directly , dear , '' remarked Mrs. Pryor , as she laid Caroline down . 
Quitting her , she glided to the door , softly turned the key in the lock , ascertained that it was fast , and came back . 
She bent over her . 
She threw back the curtain to admit the moonlight more freely . 
She gazed intently on her face . 
`` Then , if you love me , '' said she , speaking quickly , with an altered voice : `` if you feel as if -- to use your own words -- you could ` grow to my heart , ' it will be neither shock nor pain for you to know that that heart is the source whence yours was filled ; that from my veins issued the tide which flows in yours ; that you are mine -- my daughter -- my own child . '' 
we have been long parted : I return now to cherish you again . '' 
She held her to her bosom : she cradled her in her arms : she rocked her softly , as if lulling a young child to sleep . 
The offspring nestled to the parent : that parent , feeling the endearment and hearing the appeal , gathered her closer still . 
She covered her with noiseless kisses : she murmured love over her , like a cushat fostering its young . 
`` You saw nothing , Caroline : I can cover my feelings . 
These , Caroline , when they smiled on me , I mistook for angels ! 
I have suffered ! '' 
... But , Caroline -- '' Thus she invoked her daughter after a pause . 
`` Forget ! '' 
`` Oh , Caroline ! 
Caroline , I dared not undertake to rear you : I resolved to leave you in your uncle 's hands . 
`` I am wandering in a pleasant world , '' said Caroline , in a soft , happy voice , `` and I want you to tell me whether it is real or visionary . 
demanded Caroline , rising on her pillow . 
-LRB- To Caroline -RRB- . 
Caroline did her best . 
Her uncle frowned to see that her powers were so limited : he prophesied , however , great things for the future ; and as she praised the morsel he had brought , and smiled gratefully in his face , he stooped over her pillow , kissed her , and said , with a broken , rugged accent , -- `` Good-night , bairnie ! 
Caroline enjoyed such peaceful rest that night , circled by her mother 's arms , and pillowed on her breast , that she forgot to wish for any other stay ; and though more than one feverish dream came to her in slumber , yet , when she woke up panting , so happy and contented a feeling returned with returning consciousness , that her agitation was soothed almost as soon as felt . 
Caroline evidently remembered with clearness what had happened . 
Even Hortense , who would fain have staid at home and aided Mrs. Pryor in nursing Caroline , had been so earnestly entreated by Miss Mann to accompany her once more to Wormwood Wells , in the hope of alleviating sufferings greatly aggravated by the insalubrious weather , that she felt obliged to comply : indeed , it was not in her nature to refuse a request that at once appealed to her goodness of heart , and -- by a confession of dependency -- flattered her amour-propre . 
So long as the breath of Asiatic deserts parched Caroline 's lips and fevered her veins , her physical convalescence could not keep pace with her returning mental tranquillity ; but there came a day when the wind ceased to sob at the eastern gable of the Rectory , and at the oriel window of the church . 
Caroline 's youth could now be of some avail to her , and so could her mother 's nurture : both -- crowned by God 's blessing , sent in the pure west wind blowing soft as fresh through the ever-open chamber lattice -- rekindled her long-languishing energies . 
It was not merely Caroline 's smile which was brighter , or her spirits which were cheered , but a certain look had passed from her face and eye -- a look dread and indescribable , but which will easily be recalled by those who have watched the couch of dangerous disease . 
Long before the emaciated outlines of her aspect began to fill , or its departed colour to return , a more subtle change took place : all grew softer and warmer . 
This is a digression ; but it suffices to explain why Caroline would have no other hand than William 's to guide her chair , and why his society and conversation sufficed to give interest to her garden-airings . 
She gently asked Caroline , -- `` Are you not afraid , my dear , to converse with that person so unreservedly ? 
The evening restored Caroline entirely to her mother , and Mrs. Pryor liked the evening ; for then , alone with her daughter , no human shadow came between her and what she loved . 
This mood changed to Caroline 's influence , and to that influence alone . 
The dependent fondness of her nursling , the natural affection of her child , came over her suavely : her frost fell away ; her rigidity unbent : she grew smiling and pliant . 
Not that Caroline made any wordy profession of love -- that would ill have suited Mrs. Pryor : she would have read therein the proof of insincerity ; but she hung on her with easy dependence ; she confided in her with fearless reliance : these things contented the mother 's heart . 
Other people were always more or less reserved and stiff with her , as she was reserved and stiff with them ; other people betrayed consciousness of , and annoyance at her weak points : Caroline no more showed such wounding sagacity or reproachful sensitiveness now , than she had done when a suckling of three months old . 
Yet Caroline could find fault . 
Blind to the constitutional defects that were incurable , she had her eyes wide open to the acquired habits that were susceptible of remedy . 
On certain points she would quite artlessly lecture her parent ; and that parent , instead of being hurt , felt a sensation of pleasure in discovering that the girl dared lecture her ; that she was so much at home with her . 
`` Does it annoy you , Caroline ? '' 
And Caroline , sitting near her mother , rearranged her muslin handkerchief , and resmoothed her hair . 
`` My own mama , '' then she went on , as if pleasing herself with the thought of their relationship , `` who belongs to me , and to whom I belong ! 
Would that your aunt Caroline had lived to see her niece ! '' 
Your father , Caroline , naturally spoke well ; quite otherwise than your worthy uncle : correctly , gently , smoothly . 
And then , when she yielded , Caroline would say , archly , -- `` You will spoil me , mama . 
By the time the Fieldhead party returned to Briarfield , Caroline was nearly well . 
She took Caroline in her arms , gave her one look , one kiss , then said : -- `` You are better . '' 
In the midst of vivacious discourse , her eye still wandered to Caroline : there spoke in its light a deep solicitude , some trouble , and some amaze . 
demanded Caroline of her mother . 
observed Caroline , who soon regained the quiet control of her feelings . 
Caroline thus seemed to get a view of Shirley 's character under a novel aspect . 
Whether Shirley had become wearied of her honoured relatives , is not known : she did not say she was ; but she claimed and retained Caroline with an eagerness which proved that an addition to that worshipful company was not unwelcome . 
I should have said , nothing could have equalled it ; but I remembered a fact which strangely astonished Caroline Helstone . 
It was -- to discover that her cousin had absolutely no sympathizing friend at Fieldhead : that to Miss Keeldar he was as much a mere teacher , as little a gentleman , as little a man , as to the estimable Misses Sympson . 
It even appeared that he would accept nothing more : in that abode at least ; for when his cousin Caroline made gentle overtures of friendship , he did not encourage them ; he rather avoided than sought her . 
`` Shirley , '' said Caroline , one day , as they two were sitting alone in the summer-house , `` did you know that my cousin Louis was tutor in your uncle 's family before the Sympsons came down here ? '' 
`` Yes , '' repeated Caroline , with mild firmness ; `` Robert 's brother . 
`` Wise , humble , pious Caroline ! '' 
`` Men and angels , hear her ! 
`` He is not ugly , Shirley , '' pleaded Caroline ; `` he is not ignoble ; he is sad : silence seals his mind ; but I believe him to be intelligent ; and be certain , if he had not something very commendable in his disposition , Mr. Hall would never seek his society as he does . '' 
Caroline saw her face as she looked after the rude tutor : it was pale , as if her pride bled inwardly . 
`` You see , '' remarked Caroline , apologetically , `` his feelings are so often hurt , it makes him morose . '' 
`` I suppose he has more than once behaved in this way , '' thought Caroline to herself ; `` and that renders Shirley so distant to him : yet I wonder she can not make allowance for character and circumstances : I wonder the general modesty , manliness , sincerity of his nature , do not plead with her in his behalf . 
The verbal testimony of two friends of Caroline 's to her cousin 's character augmented her favourable opinion of him . 
`` But he is so grave , '' objected Caroline . 
`` Well , I suppose she does n't know him , '' mused Caroline to herself , and by this hypothesis she endeavoured to account for what seemed else unaccountable . 
But such simple solution of the difficulty was not left her long : she was obliged to refuse Miss Keeldar even this negative excuse for her prejudice . 
One day she chanced to be in the school-room with Henry Sympson , whose amiable and affectionate disposition had quickly recommended him to her regard . 
He threw the bundle to Caroline . 
The packet looked so neat externally , her curiosity was excited to see its contents . 
The writing was recognisable : she scarcely needed the further evidence of the name signed at the close of each theme , to tell her whose they were . 
Yet that name astonished her : `` Shirley Keeldar , Sympson Grove , -- shire '' -LRB- a southern county -RRB- , and a date four years back . 
She tied up the packet , and held it in her hand , meditating over it . 
She half felt as if , in opening it , she had violated a confidence . 
You have almost as much sense as a man -LRB- far more , God wot , '' she muttered to herself , `` than many men -RRB- ; you are fond of reading , and you can talk sensibly about what you read . '' 
`` Henry , '' she said , `` I have brought your lunch here : I shall prepare it for you myself . '' 
`` What are you two about , '' she continued , `` ran-sacking Mr. Moore 's desk ? '' 
`` Looking at your old copy-books , '' returned Caroline . 
They must be held precious : they are kept carefully . '' 
Caroline should see them . '' 
`` Shirley , you are a real enigma , '' whispered Caroline in her ear . 
`` I have forgotten ` Auld Langsyne , ' you see , Harry , '' said Miss Keeldar , answering young Sympson , and not heeding Caroline . 
`` Give it to Shirley and Caroline -- they did it , '' was alleged with more attention to effect than truth . 
Caroline hastened to say ; and she restored the little packet to its place . 
He talked and laughed gleefully -- now with Caroline , whom he had fixed by his side , now with Shirley , and again with Louis Moore . 
Caroline marvelled at his humour , but still more at his entire self-possession . 
`` I should like to see your pictures , Louis , '' said Caroline , when the sumptuous luncheon was discussed . 
`` Shirley -- Shirley , you ought to go , '' whispered Caroline . 
`` I wonder why ? '' 
She lifted her eyes , and saw in the glass over the fireplace , both Mr. Hall and Louis Moore gazing at her gravely . 
`` If , '' she said , with a yielding smile -- `` if a majority of the present company maintain that the De Walden Hall people have claims on my civility , I will subdue my inclinations to my duty . 
Again consulting the mirror , it reflected an unanimous vote against her . 
Caroline , approaching her , smoothed her wavy curls , gave to her attire a less artistic and more domestic grace , and Shirley was put out of the room , protesting still , by a pouting lip , against her dismissal . 
It did not suit these three young persons to be thrown much together : Miss Keeldar liked the society of few ladies : indeed , she had a cordial pleasure in that of none except Mrs. Pryor and Caroline Helstone . 
She was civil , kind , attentive even to her cousins ; but still she usually had little to say to them . 
In the sunny mood of this particular morning , she contrived to entertain even the Misses Sympson . 
Without deviating from her wonted rule of discussing with them only ordinary themes , she imparted to these themes an extraordinary interest : the sparkle of her spirit glanced along her phrases . 
What made her so joyous ? 
She went on to tell me that she had left Caroline Helstone some money , too ; that this manor-house , with its furniture and books , she had bequeathed to me , as she did not choose to take the old family place from her own blood ; and that all the rest of her property , amounting to about twelve thousand pounds , exclusive of the legacies to my sisters and Miss Helstone , she had willed , not to me , seeing I was already rich , but to a good man , who would make the best use of it that any human being could do : a man , she said , that was both gentle and brave , strong and merciful ; a man that might not profess to be pious , but she knew he had the secret of religion pure and undefiled before God . 
`` Well , you have Caroline Helstone . '' 
Caroline , I fancy , is the soul of conscientious punctuality and nice exactitude ; she would precisely suit the domestic habits of a certain fastidious kinsman of mine : so delicate , dexterous , quaint , quick , quiet ; all done to a minute , all arranged to a strawbreadth : she would suit Robert ; but what could I do with anything so nearly faultless ? 
She is my equal ; poor as myself ; she is certainly pretty : a little Raffaelle head hers ; Raffaelle in feature , quite English in expression : all insular grace and purity ; but where is there anything to alter , anything to endure , anything to reprimand , to be anxious about ? 
There she is , a lily of the valley , untinted , needing no tint . 
What change could improve her ? 
I have sat at one side of a room and observed her at the other ; perhaps in an excited , genial moment , when she had some of her favourites round her : her old beaux , for instance , yourself and Helstone , with whom she is so playful , pleasant , and eloquent . 
I have watched her when she was most natural , most lively , and most lovely ; my judgment has pronounced her beautiful : beautiful she is , at times , when her mood and her array partake of the splendid . 
I have drawn a little nearer , feeling that our terms of acquaintance gave me the right of approach ; I have joined the circle round her seat , caught her eye , and mastered her attention ; then we have conversed ; and others -- thinking me , perhaps , peculiarly privileged -- have withdrawn by degrees , and left us alone . 
`` I want you to step over to the Rectory , and tell Caroline Helstone what has happened : will you do this ? 
`` Trust me for watching over Caroline . 
I will communicate with your sister , too ; but , doubtless , she is already with Robert ? '' 
`` I thought I should have had to support her , '' he said , as he walked towards Briarmains , `` and it is she who has made me strong . 
I have possessed it -- for five minutes I held it . 
He knew she would : all women are proud monkeys -- and he knows no more conceited doll than that Caroline Helstone . 
Profound silence and meditation on Caroline 's part , and a sly watchfulness on Martin 's . 
He walked home with Caroline . 
On the way he promised to see Mr. Moore , in spite of the dragon who guarded his chamber , and appointed an hour on the next day , when Caroline was to come to Briarmains Wood and get tidings of him : he would meet her at a certain tree . 
It is queer , Zillah -LRB- they call her Zillah -RRB- -- Zillah Horsfall is a woman , and Caroline Helstone is a woman : they are two individuals of the same species -- not much alike though . 
Is she a pretty girl , that Caroline ? 
I suspect she is -- very nice to look at -- something so clear in her face -- so soft in her eyes . 
I approve of her looking at me ; it does me good . 
She has long eyelashes : their shadow seems to rest where she gazes , and to instil peace and thought . 
If she behaves well , and continues to suit me , as she has suited me to-day , I may do her a good turn . 
`` It is not worth while to bother myself for that Caroline , '' he remarked . 
`` Yes , '' he said , `` I made her sob , shudder , almost faint : I 'll see her smile before I 've done with her : besides , I want to outwit all these womenites . '' 
`` She is long in coming , '' he muttered , as he glanced along the narrow track . 
`` I wonder , '' he subjoined , `` what I wish to see her so much for ? 
But I have power over her , and I want her to come that I may use that power . '' 
`` Now , '' he resumed , when a further period had elapsed , `` if she fails to come , I shall hate and scorn her . '' 
`` It is queer how she thinks of him , '' reflected Martin : `` the blinding snow and bitter cold are nothing to her , I believe : yet she is but a ` chitty - faced ' creature , as my mother would say . 
Martin , do see him , and give him Caroline Helstone 's regards and say , she wished to know how he was , and if anything could be done for his comfort . '' 
Caroline fell into a long silent fit of musing , but still she walked on with her guide : they came in sight of Briarmains . 
he asked . 
He left his shoes on the mat ; mounted the stair unshod ; Caroline stole after , with noiseless step : there was a gallery , and there was a passage ; at the end of that passage Martin paused before a door and tapped : he had to tap twice -- thrice : a voice , known to one listener , at last said , -- `` Come in . '' 
Caroline drew her chair up to his . 
`` I have wished for you , Caroline . '' 
`` Yes '' -LRB- Caroline smiled brightly -RRB- -- `` you know she is mama ? '' 
Come still nearer , Lina , and give me your hand -- if my thin fingers do not scare you . '' 
She took those thin fingers between her two little hands -- she bent her head `` et les effleura de ses lèvres '' -LRB- I put that in French because the word `` effleurer '' is an exquisite word -RRB- . 
Let her only catch you on the stairs , Miss Caroline : you 're not to bid him good-bye '' -LRB- stepping between her and Moore -RRB- , -- `` you are to march . '' 
He made them part : he would suffer no Farewell but what could be expressed in looks : he half carried Caroline down the stairs . 
In the hall he wrapped her shawl round her , and -- but that his mother 's tread then crosked in the gallery , and but that a sentiment of diffidence -- the proper , natural , therefore the noble impulse of his boy 's heart , held him back , he would have claimed his reward -- he would have said , `` Now , Miss Caroline , for all this give me one kiss . '' 
Tell Harry Scott to step up to the Rectory , with a request from you , that Caroline Helstone should come and spend the evening with you . '' 
`` I should like her to see the place as it is just now : its brilliant cleanliness and perfect neatness are so much to your credit . '' 
`` It might benefit her in the way of example . '' 
`` It might and must : she ought to come . '' 
She congratulated Caroline on the evident improvement in her health : her colour and her plump cheeks were returning , she remarked . 
During her absence , the talk passed into Caroline 's hands : she took it up with ease ; she fell into her best tone of conversation . 
`` Caroline , you look as if you had heard good tidings , '' said Moore , after earnestly gazing at her for some minutes . 
`` Whom does it concern besides me ? '' 
She coloured ; she hesitated ; she was silent . 
-- whom does it concern ? '' 
He bent his ear to her lips : still she would not , or could not , speak clearly to the point . 
Seeing that Moore waited , and was resolved to hear something , she at last said , -- `` Miss Keeldar spent a day at the Rectory about a week since . 
Caroline , what a noble fellow your Robert is -- great , good , disinterested , and then so pure ! '' 
Caroline was moved -- much moved . 
what a poor , pale , grim phantom I am -- more pitiable than formidable . '' 
`` There is something formidable still , pale as you are , '' she said , as her eye fell under his . 
Caroline smiled . 
cried Caroline , laughing gleefully . 
`` That you must , and quickly : here comes Hortense ; come near , a little nearer , my own Lina : I care for the whisper more than the words . '' 
Robert found a moment to exchange a few more whispered sentences : he was waiting at the foot of the staircase , as Caroline descended after putting on her shawl . 
Caroline looked keenly up , and made a movement towards him , something between the loving and the petulant . 
`` I followed her into the drawing-room : Mrs. Pryor and Caroline Helstone were both there : she has summoned them to bear her company a while . 
In her white evening dress ; with her long hair flowing full and wavy ; with her noiseless step , her pale cheek , her eye full of night and lightning , she looked , I thought , spirit-like , -- a thing made of an element , -- the child of a breeze and a flame , -- the daughter of ray and rain-drop , -- a thing never to be overtaken , arrested , fixed . 
And so Caroline Helstone thought , when she dressed herself more carefully than usual on the day of this trading triumph , and went , attired in her neatest muslin , to spend the afternoon at Fieldhead , there to superintend certain millinery preparations for a great event : the last appeal in these matters being reserved for her unimpeachable taste . 
She decided on the wreath , the veil , the dress to be worn at the altar : she chose various robes and fashions for more ordinary occasions , without much reference to the bride 's opinion ; that lady , indeed , being in a somewhat impracticable mood . 
Caroline was not unhappy that evening ; far otherwise : but as she gazed she sighed , and as she sighed a hand circled her , and rested quietly on her waist . 
Caroline thought she knew who had drawn near : she received the touch unstartled . 
The answer was a closer caress ; and Caroline turned , and looked , not into Mrs. Pryor 's matron face , but up at a dark manly visage . 
She dropped her watering-pot , and stepped down from the pedestal . 
Caroline , I have sought you to ask an audience . 
To leave me ? '' 
Her little fingers fastened on his arm : she spoke and looked affrighted . 
Examine my face ; yes , look at me well : is the despair of parting legible thereon ? '' 
She looked into an illuminated countenance , whose characters were all beaming , though the page itself was dusk : this face , potent in the majesty of its traits , shed down on her hope , fondness , delight . 
`` Will the repeal do you good ; much good -- immediate good ? '' 
Caroline devoured his words : she held his hand in hers ; she drew a long breath . 
`` And I also , for your sake ! '' 
`` Now , I can take more workmen ; give better wages ; lay wiser and more liberal plans ; do some good ; be less selfish : now , Caroline , I can have a house -- a home which I can truly call mine -- and now -- '' He paused ; for his deep voice was checked . 
This was no moment for her to speak : she did not speak . 
`` Will Caroline , who meekly hopes to be forgiven as she forgives -- will she pardon all I have made her suffer -- all that long pain I have wickedly caused her -- all that sickness of body and mind she owed to me ? 
His hand was in Caroline 's still : a gentle pressure answered him . 
`` Is Caroline mine ? '' 
`` Caroline is yours . '' 
`` I will prize her : the sense of her value is here , in my heart ; the necessity for her society is blended with my life : not more jealous shall I be of the blood whose flow moves my pulses , than of her happiness and well-being . '' 
But she will care for me , in her way : these hands will be the gentle ministrants of every comfort I can taste . 
Suddenly , Caroline was troubled ; her lip quivered . 
asked Moore , as she nestled to , and then uneasily shrank from him . 
I am well-pleased my Caroline should view me in this light . '' 
Caroline , I foresee what I will now foretell . 
Louis , at any rate , is certain of power and property : he will not bury his talents : he is a benevolent fellow , and has besides an intellect of his own of no trifling calibre . 
His mind is slow but strong : it must work : it may work deliberately , but it will work well . 
He will be made magistrate of the district -- Shirley says he shall : she would proceed impetuously and prematurely to obtain for him this dignity , if he would let her , but he will not ; as usual , he will be in no haste : ere he has been master of Fieldhead a year , all the district will feel his quiet influence , and acknowledge his unassuming superiority : a magistrate is wanted -- they will , in time , invest him with the office voluntarily and unreluctantly . 
Everybody admires his future wife ; and everybody will , in time , like him : he is of the ` pâte ' generally approved , ` bon comme le pain ' -- daily-bread for the most fastidious ; good for the infant and the aged , nourishing for the poor , wholesome for the rich . 
Shirley , in spite of her whims and oddities , her dodges and delays , has an infatuated fondness for him : she will one day see him as universally beloved as even she could wish : he will also be universally esteemed , considered , consulted , depended on -- too much so : his advice will be always judicious , his help always good-natured -- ere long , both will be in inconvenient request : he will have to impose restrictions . 
As for me , if I succeed as I intend to do , my success will add to his and Shirley 's income : I can double the value of their mill-property : I can line yonder barren Hollow with lines of cottages , and rows of cottage-gardens -- '' `` Robert ! 
`` The copse shall be firewood ere five years elapse : the beautiful wild ravine shall be a smooth descent ; the green natural terrace shall be a paved street : there shall be cottages in the dark ravine , and cottages on the lonely slopes : the rough pebbled track shall be an even , firm , broad , black , sooty road , bedded with the cinders from my mill : and my mill , Caroline -- my mill shall fill its present yard . '' 
`` Caroline , the houseless , the starving , the unemployed shall come to Hollow 's mill from far and near ; and Joe Scott shall give them work , and Louis Moore , Esq. , shall let them a tenement , and Mrs. Gill shall mete them a portion till the first payday . '' 
The mill shall find salaries for a master and mistress , and the Squire or the Clothier shall give a treat once a quarter . '' 
This morning there were two marriages solemnized in Briarfield church , -- Louis Gérard Moore , Esq. late of Antwerp , to Shirley , daughter of the late Charles Cave Keeldar , Esq. of Fieldhead : Robert Gérard Moore , Esq. of Hollow 's mill , to Caroline , niece of the Rev. Mathewson Helston , M.A. , Rector of Briarfield . 
