`` Walter Elliot , born March 1 , 1760 , married , July 15 , 1784 , Elizabeth , daughter of James Stevenson , Esq. of South Park , in the county of Gloucester ; by which lady -LRB- who died 1800 -RRB- he has issue Elizabeth , born June 1 , 1785 ; Anne , born August 9 , 1787 ; a still-born son , Nov. 5 , 1789 ; Mary , born Nov. 20 , 1791 . '' 
Mary had acquired a little artificial importance , by becoming Mrs. Charles Musgrove ; but Anne , with an elegance of mind and sweetness of character , which must have placed her high with any people of real understanding , was nobody with either father or sister : her word had no weight ; her convenience was always to give way ; -- she was only Anne . 
Lady Russell loved the mall ; but it was only in Anne that she could fancy the mother to revive again . 
A few years before , Anne Elliot had been a very pretty girl , but her bloom had vanished early ; and as even in its height , her father had found little to admire in her , -LRB- so totally different were her delicate features and mild dark eyes from his own -RRB- ; there could be nothing in them now that she was faded and thin , to excite his esteem . 
He had never indulged much hope , he had now none , of ever reading her name in any other page of his favourite work . 
It was so with Elizabeth ; still the same handsome Miss Elliot that she had begun to be thirteen years ago ; and Sir Walter might be excused , therefore , in forgetting her age , or , at least , be deemed only half a fool , for thinking himself and Elizabeth as blooming as ever , amidst the wreck of the good looks of every body else ; for he could plainly see how old all the rest of his family and acquaintance were growing . 
Anne haggard , Mary coarse , every face in the neighbourhood worsting ; and the rapid increase of the crow 's foot about Lady Russell 's temples had long been a distress to him . 
-- and Elizabeth , to do her justice , had , in the first ardour of female alarm , set seriously to think what could be done , and had finally proposed these two branches of economy : to cut off some unnecessary charities , and to refrain from new-furnishing the drawing-room ; to which expedients she afterwards added the happy thought of their taking no present down to Anne , as had been the usual yearly custom . 
But these measures , however good in themselves , were insufficient for the real extent of the evil , the whole of which Sir Walter found himself obliged to confess to her soon afterwards . 
Herself , the widow of only a knight , she gave the dignity of a baronet all its due ; and Sir Walter , independent of his claims as an old acquaintance , an attentive neighbour , an obliging landlord , the husband of her very dear friend , the father of Anne and her sisters , was , as being Sir Walter , in her apprehension entitled to a great deal of compassion and consideration under his present difficulties . 
But she was very anxious to have it done with the least possible pain to him and Elizabeth . 
She drew up plans of economy , she made exact calculations , and she did , what nobody else thought of doing , she consulted Anne , who never seemed considered by the others as having any interest in the question . 
Every emendation of Anne 's had been on the side of honesty against importance . 
She wanted more vigorous measures , a more complete reformation , a quicker release from debt , a much higher tone of indifference for every thing but justice and equity . 
This was the principle on which Anne wanted her father to be proceeding , his friends to be urging him . 
She considered it as an act of indispensable duty to clear away the claims of creditors , with all the expedition which the most comprehensive retrenchments could secure , and saw no dignity in any thing short of it . 
She wanted it to be prescribed , and felt as a duty . 
She rated Lady Russell 's influence highly , and as to the severe degree of self-denial , which her own conscience prompted , she believed there might be little more difficulty in persuading them to a complete , than to half a reformation . 
Her knowledge of her father and Elizabeth , inclined her to think that the sacrifice of one pair of horses would be hardly less painful than of both , and so on , through the whole list of Lady Russell 's too gentle reductions . 
How Anne 's more rigid requisitions might have been taken , is of little consequence . 
All Anne 's wishes had been for the latter . 
But the usual fate of Anne attended her , in having something very opposite from her inclination fixed on . 
She disliked Bath , and did not think it agreed with her -- and Bath was to be her home . 
Lady Russell felt obliged to oppose her dear Anne 's known wishes . 
Anne herself would have found the mortifications of it more than she foresaw , and to Sir Walter 's feelings they must have been dreadful . 
And with regard to Anne 's dislike of Bath , she considered it as a prejudice and mistake , arising first from the circumstance of her having been three years at school there , after her mother 's death , and , secondly , from her happening to be not in perfectly good spirits the only winter which she had afterwards spent there with herself . 
Anne had been too little from home , too little seen . 
Her spirits were not high . 
She wanted her to be more known . 
She was a clever young woman , who understood the art of pleasing ; the art of pleasing , at least , at Kellynch-hall ; and who had made herself so acceptable to Miss Elliot , as to have been already staying there more than once , in spite of all that Lady Russell , who thought it a friendship quite out of place , could hint of caution and reserve . 
She had been repeatedly very earnest in trying to get Anne included in the visit to London , sensibly open to all the injustice and all the discredit of the selfish arrangements which shut her out , and on many lesser occasions had endeavoured to give Elizabeth the advantage of her own better judgment and experience -- but always in vain ; Elizabeth would go her own way -- and never had she pursued it in more decided opposition to Lady Russell , than in this selection of Mrs. Clay ; turning from the society of so deserving a sister to bestow her affection and confidence on one who ought to have been nothing to her but the object of distant civility . 
From situation , Mrs. Clay was , in Lady Russell 's estimate , a very unequal , and in her character she believed a very dangerous companion -- and a removal that would leave Mrs. Clay behind , and bring a choice of more suitable intimates within Miss Elliot 's reach , was therefore an object of first-rate importance . 
You need not be afraid , Miss Elliot , of your own sweet flower-garden 's being neglected . '' 
I am not fond of the idea of my shrubberies being always approachable ; and I should recommend Miss Elliot to be on her guard with respect to her flower-garden . 
Here Anne spoke , -- `` The navy , I think , who have done so much for us , have at least an equal claim with any other set of men , for all the comforts and all the privileges which any home can give . 
What Miss Anne says , is very true , '' was Mr. Shepherd 's rejoinder , and `` Oh ! 
Mr. Shepherd answered for his being of a gentleman 's family , and mentioned a place ; and Anne , after the little pause which followed , added -- `` He is rear admiral of the white . 
But Mrs. Clay was talking so eagerly with Miss Elliot , that she did not hear the appeal . 
After waiting another moment -- `` You mean Mr. Wentworth , I suppose , '' said Anne . 
Mr. Shepherd was completely empowered to act ; and no sooner had such an end been reached , than Anne , who had been a most attentive listener to the whole , left the room , to seek the comfort of cool air for her flushed cheeks ; and as she walked along a favourite grove , said , with a gentle sigh , `` a few months more , and he , perhaps , may be walking here . '' 
He was , at that time , a remarkably fine young man , with a great deal of intelligence , spirit and brilliancy ; and Anne an extremely pretty girl , with gentleness , modesty , taste , and feeling . 
-- Half the sum of attraction , on either side , might have been enough , for he had nothing to do , and she had hardly any body to love ; but the encounter of such lavish recommendations could not fail . 
It would be difficult to say which had seen highest perfection in the other , or which had been the happiest ; she , in receiving his declarations and proposals , or he in having them accepted . 
Anne Elliot , with all her claims of birth , beauty , and mind , to throw herself away at nineteen ; involve herself at nineteen in an engagement with a young man , who had nothing but himself to recommend him , and no hopes of attaining affluence , but in the chances of a most uncertain profession , and no connexions to secure even his farther rise in that profession ; would be , indeed , a throwing away , which she grieved to think of ! 
Anne Elliot , so young ; known to so few , to be snatched off by a stranger without alliance or fortune ; or rather sunk by him into a state of most wearing , anxious , youth-killing dependance ! 
-- Such confidence , powerful in its own warmth , and bewitching in the wit which often expressed it , must have been enough for Anne ; but Lady Russell saw it very differently . 
Such opposition , as these feelings produced , was more than Anne could combat . 
Young and gentle as she was , it might yet have been possible to withstand her father 's ill-will , though unsoftened by one kind word or look on the part of her sister ; -- but Lady Russell , whom she had always loved and relied on , could not , with such steadiness of opinion , and such tenderness of manner , be continually advising her in vain . 
A few months had seen the beginning and the end of their acquaintance ; but , not with a few months ended Anne 's share of suffering from it . 
Her attachment and regrets had , for a long time , clouded every enjoyment of youth ; and an early loss of bloom and spirits had been their lasting effect . 
More than seven years were gone since this little history of sorrowful interest had reached its close ; and time had softened down much , perhaps nearly all of peculiar attachment to him , -- but she had been too dependant on time alone ; no aid had been given in change of place , -LRB- except in one visit to Bath soon after the rupture , -RRB- or in any novelty or enlargement of society . 
-- No one had ever come within the Kellynch circle , who could bear a comparison with Frederick Wentworth , as he stood in her memory . 
No second attachment , the only thoroughly natural , happy , and sufficient cure , at her time of life , had been possible to the nice tone of her mind , the fastidiousness of her taste , in the small limits of the society around them . 
She had been solicited , when about two-and-twenty , to change her name , by the young man , who not long afterwards found a more willing mind in her younger sister ; and Lady Russell had lamented her refusal ; for Charles Musgrove was the eldest son of a man , whose landed property and general importance , were second , in that country , only to Sir Walter 's , and of good character and appearance ; and however Lady Russell might have asked yet for something more , while Anne was nineteen , she would have rejoiced to see her at twenty-two , so respectably removed from the partialities and injustice of her father 's house , and settled so permanently near herself . 
But in this case , Anne had left nothing for advice to do ; and though Lady Russell , as satisfied as ever with her own discretion , never wished the past undone , she began now to have the anxiety which borders on hopelessness for Anne 's being tempted , by some man of talents and independence , to enter a state for which she held her to be peculiarly fitted by her warm affections and domestic habits . 
They knew not each other 's opinion , either its constancy or its change , on the one leading point of Anne 's conduct , for the subject was never alluded to , -- but Anne , at seven and twenty , thought very differently from what she had been made to think at nineteen . 
-- She did not blame Lady Russell , she did not blame herself for having been guided by her ; but she felt that were any young person , in similar circumstances , to apply to her for counsel , they would never receive any of such certain immediate wretchedness , such uncertain future good . 
How eloquent could Anne Elliot have been , -- how eloquent , at least , were her wishes on the side of early warm attachment , and a cheerful confidence in futurity , against that over-anxious caution which seems to insult exertion and distrust Providence ! 
-- She had been forced into prudence in her youth , she learned romance as she grew older -- the natural sequel of an unnatural beginning . 
With all these circumstances , recollections and feelings , she could not hear that Captain Wentworth 's sister was likely to live at Kellynch , without a revival of former pain ; and many a stroll and many a sigh were necessary to dispel the agitation of the idea . 
On the morning appointed for Admiral and Mrs. Croft 's seeing Kellynch-hall , Anne found it most natural to take her almost daily walk to Lady Russell 's , and keep out of the way till all was over ; when she found it most natural to be sorry that she had missed the opportunity of seeing them . 
Lady Russell , convinced that Anne would not be allowed to be of any use , or any importance , in the choice of the house which they were going to secure , was very unwilling to have her hurried away so soon , and wanted to make it possible for her to stay behind , till she might convey her to Bath herself after Christmas ; but having engagements of her own , which must take her from Kellynch for several weeks , she was unable to give the full invitation she wished ; and Anne , though dreading the possible heats of September in all the white glare of Bath , and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and so sad of the autumnal months in the country , did not think that , every thing considered , she wished to remain . 
Something occurred , however , to give her a different duty . 
Mary , often a little unwell , and always thinking a great deal of her own complaints , and always in the habit of claiming Anne when any thing was the matter , was indisposed ; and foreseeing that she should not have a day 's health all the autumn , entreated , or rather required her , for it was hardly entreaty , to come to Uppercross Cottage , and bear her company as long as she should want her , instead of going to Bath . 
`` I can not possibly do without Anne , '' was Mary 's reasoning ; and Elizabeth 's reply was , `` Then I am sure Anne had better stay , for nobody will want her in Bath . '' 
To be claimed as a good , though in an improper style , is at least better than being rejected as no good at all ; and Anne , glad to be thought of some use , glad to have any thing marked out as a duty , and certainly not sorry to have the scene of it in the country , and her own dear country , readily agreed to stay . 
This invitation of Mary 's removed all Lady Russell 's difficulties , and it was consequently soon settled that Anne should not go to Bath till Lady Russell took her , and that all the intervening time should be divided between Uppercross Cottage and Kellynch-lodge . 
Lady Russell was extremely sorry that such a measure should have been resorted to at all -- wondered , grieved , and feared -- and the affront it contained to Anne , in Mrs. Clay 's being of so much use , while Anne could be of none , was a very sore aggravation . 
Anne herself was become hardened to such affronts ; but she felt the imprudence of the arrangement quite as keenly as Lady Russell . 
Anne was so impressed by the degree of their danger , that she could not excuse herself from trying to make it perceptible to her sister . 
She had little hope of success ; but Elizabeth , who in the event of such a reverse would be so much more to be pitied than herself , should never , she thought , have reason to reproach her for giving no warning . 
`` There is hardly any personal defect , '' replied Anne , `` which an agreeable manner might not gradually reconcile one to . '' 
Anne had done -- glad that it was over , and not absolutely hopeless of doing good . 
The last office of the four carriage-horses was to draw Sir Walter , Miss Elliot , and Mrs. Clay to Bath . 
The party drove off in very good spirits ; Sir Walter prepared with condescending bows for all the afflicted tenantry and cottagers who might have had a hint to shew themselves : and Anne walked up at the same time , in a sort of desolate tranquillity , to the Lodge , where she was to spend the first week . 
Her friend was not in better spirits than herself . 
It was painful to look upon their deserted grounds , and still worse to anticipate the new hands they were to fall into ; and to escape the solitariness and the melancholy of so altered a village , and be out of the way when Admiral and Mrs. Croft first arrived , she had determined to make her own absence from home begin when she must give up Anne . 
Accordingly their removal was made together , and Anne was set down at Uppercross Cottage , in the first stage of Lady Russell 's journey . 
Here Anne had often been staying . 
She knew the ways of Uppercross as well as those of Kellynch . 
The two families were so continually meeting , so much in the habit of running in and out of each other 's house at all hours , that it was rather a surprise to her to find Mary alone ; but being alone , her being unwell and out of spirits , was almost a matter of course . 
Though better endowed than the elder sister , Mary had not Anne 's understanding or temper . 
She was now lying on the faded sofa of the pretty little drawing-room , the once elegant furniture of which had been gradually growing shabby , under the influence of four summers and two children ; and , on Anne 's appearing , greeted her with , `` So , you are come at last ! 
`` I am sorry to find you unwell , '' replied Anne . 
Anne said what was proper , and enquired after her husband . 
`` Well , you will soon be better now , '' replied Anne , cheerfully . 
Anne , I am so very unwell ! 
A little farther perseverance in patience , and forced cheerfulness on Anne 's side , produced nearly a cure on Mary 's . 
`` I have not the smallest objection on that account , '' replied Anne . 
Anne had always thought such a style of intercourse highly imprudent ; but she had ceased to endeavour to check it , from believing that , though there were on each side continual subjects of offence , neither family could now do without it . 
Anne always contemplated them as some of the happiest creatures of her acquaintance ; but still , saved as we all are by some comfortable feeling of superiority from wishing for the possibility of exchange , she would not have given up her own more elegant and cultivated mind for all their enjoyments ; and envied them nothing but that seemingly perfect good understanding and agreement together , that good humoured mutual affection , of which she had known so little herself with either of her sisters . 
Nothing seemed amiss on the side of the Great House family , which was generally , as Anne very well knew , the least to blame . 
The half hour was chatted away pleasantly enough ; and she was not at all surprised , at the end of it , to have their walking party joined by both the Miss Musgroves , at Mary 's particular invitation . 
Anne had not wanted this visit to Uppercross , to learn that a removal from one set of people to another , though at a distance of only three miles , will often include a total change of conversation , opinion , and idea . 
She had never been staying there before , without being struck by it , or without wishing that other Elliots could have her advantage in seeing how unknown , or unconsidered there , were the affairs ` which at Kellynch-hall were treated as of such general publicity and pervading interest ; yet , with all this experience , she believed she must now submit to feel that another lession , in the art of knowing our own nothingness beyond our own circle , was become necessary for her ; -- for certainly , coming as she did , with a heart full of the subject which had been completely occupying both houses in Kellynch for many weeks , she had expected rather more curiosity and sympathy than she found in the separate but very similar remark of Mr. and Mrs. Musgrove -- `` So , Miss Anne , Sir Walter and your sister are gone ; and what part of Bath do you think they will settle in ? '' 
Charles Musgrove was civil and agreeable ; in sense and temper he was undoubtedly superior to his wife ; but not of powers , or conversation , or grace , to make the past , as they were connected together , at all a dangerous contemplation ; though , at the same time , Anne could believe , with Lady Russell , that a more equal match might have greatly improved him ; and that a woman of real understanding might have given more consequence to his character , and more usefulness , rationality , and elegance to his habits and pursuits . 
He had very good spirits , which never seemed much affected by his wife 's occasional lowness ; bore with her unreasonableness sometimes to Anne 's admiration ; and , upon the whole , though there was very often a little disagreement , -LRB- in which she had sometimes more share than she wished , being appealed to by both parties -RRB- they might pass for a happy couple . 
-- `` I could manage them very well , if it were not for Mary 's interference , '' -- was what Anne often heard him say , and had a good deal of faith in ; but when listening in turn to Mary 's reproach of `` Charles spoils the children so that I can not get them into any order , '' -- she never had the smallest temptation to say , `` Very true . '' 
I am sure , Anne , if you would , you might persuade him that I really am very ill -- a great deal worse than I ever own . '' 
Mary 's declaration was , `` I hate sending the children to the Great House , though their grandmamma is always wanting to see them , for she humours and indulges them to such a degree , and gives them so much trash and sweet things , that they are sure to come back sick and cross for the rest of the day . '' 
-- And Mrs. Musgrove took the first opportunity of being alone with Anne , to say , `` Oh ! 
Miss Anne , I can not help wishing Mrs. Charles had a little of your method with those children . 
-- I assure you , Miss Anne , it prevents my wishing to see them at our house so often as I otherwise should . 
She had this communication , moreover , from Mary . 
And on Mrs. Musgrove 's side , it was , -- `` I make a rule of never interfering in any of my daughter-in-law 's concerns , for I know it would not do ; but I shall tell you , Miss Anne , because you may be able to set things to rights , that I have no very good opinion of Mrs. Charles 's nursery-maid : I hear strange stories of her ; she is always upon the gad : and from my own knowledge , I can declare , she is such a fine-dressing lady , that she is enough to ruin any servants she comes near . 
And one day , when Anne was walking with only the Miss Musgroves , one of them , after talking of rank , people of rank , and jealousy or rank , said , `` I have no scruple of observing to you , how nonsensical some persons are about their place , because , all the world knows how easy and indifferent you are about it : but I wish any body could give Mary a hint that it would be a great deal better if she were not so very tenacious ; especially , if she would not be always putting herself forward to take place of mamma . 
How was Anne to set all these matters to rights ? 
She could do little more than listen patiently , soften every grievance , and excuse each to the other ; give them all hints of the forbearance necessary , between such near neighbours , and make those hints broadest which were meant for her sister 's benefit . 
In all other respects , her visit began and proceeded very well . 
Her own spirits improved by change of place and subject , by being removed three miles from Kellynch : Mary 's ailments lessened by having a constant companion ; and their daily intercourse with the other family , since there was neither superior affection , confidence , nor employment in the cottage , to be interrupted by it , was rather an advantage . 
There was a family of cousins within a walk of Uppercross , in less affluent circumstances , who depended on the Musgroves for all their pleasures : they would come at any time , and help play at any thing , or dance any where ; and Anne , very much preferring the office of musician to a more active post , played country dances to them by the hour together ; a kindness which always recommended her musical powers to the notice of Mr. and Mrs. Musgrove more than any thing else , and often drew this compliment ; -- `` Well done , Miss Anne ! 
Michaelmas came ; and now Anne 's heart must be in Kellynch again . 
She could not think of much else on the 29th of September ; and she had this sympathetic touch in the evening , from Mary , who , on having occasion to note down the day of the month , exclaimed , `` Dear me ! 
`` Nobody knew how much she should suffer . 
She should put it off as long as she could . '' 
Anne had very sincerely rejoiced in there being no means of her going . 
She wished , however , to see the Crofts , and was glad to be within when the visit was returned . 
They came ; the master of the house was not at home , but the two sisters were together ; and as it chanced that Mrs. Croft fell to the share of Anne , while the admiral sat by Mary , and made himself very agreeable by his good-humoured notice of her little boys , she was well able to watch for a likeness , and if it failed her in the features , to catch it in the voice , or the turn of sentiment and expression . 
Anne gave her credit , indeed , for feelings of great consideration towards herself , in all that related to Kellynch ; and it pleased her : especially , as she had satisfied herself in the very first half minute , in the instant even of introduction , that there was not the smallest symptom of any knowledge or suspicion on Mrs. Croft 's side , to give a bias of any sort . 
Anne hoped she had outlived the age of blushing ; but the age of emotion she certainly had not . 
He was cut short by the eager attacks of the little boys , clinging to him like an old friend , and declaring he should not go ; and being too much engrossed by proposals of carrying them away in his coat pocket , & c. to have another moment for finishing or recollecting what he had begun , Anne was left to persuade herself , as well as she could , that the same brother must still be in question . 
She could not , however , reach such a degree of certainty , as not to be anxious to hear whether any thing had been said on the subject at the other house , where the Crofts had previously been calling . 
To hear them talking so much of Captain Wentworth , repeating his name so often , puzzling over past years , and at last ascertaining that it might , that it probably would , turn out to be the very same Captain Wentworth whom they recollected meeting , once or twice , after their coming back from Clifton ; -- a very fine young man ; but they could not say whether it was seven or eight years ago , -- was a new sort of trial to Anne 's nerves . 
She found , however , that it was one to which she must enure herself . 
Since he actually was expected in the country , she must teach herself to be insensible on such points . 
But a week must pass ; only a week , in Anne 's reckoning , and then , she supposed , they must meet ; and soon she began to wish that she could feel secure even for a week . 
Captain Wentworth made a very early return to Mr. Musgrove 's civility , and she was all but calling there in the same half hour ! 
-- She and Mary were actually setting forward for the great house , where , as she afterwards learnt , they must inevitably have found him , when they were stopped by the eldest boy 's being at that moment brought home in consequence of a bad fall . 
The child 's situation put the visit entirely aside , but she could not hear of her escape with indifference , even in the midst of the serious anxiety which they afterwards felt on his account . 
It was an afternoon of distress , and Anne had every thing to do at once -- the apothecary to send for -- the father to have pursued and informed -- the mother to support and keep from hysterics -- the servants to control -- the youngest child to banish , and the poor suffering one to attend and soothe ; -- besides sending , as soon as she recollected it , proper notice to the other house , which brought her an accession rather of frightened , enquiring companions , than of very useful assistants . 
-- both father and mother were in much too strong and recent alarm to bear the thought ; and Anne , in the joy of the escape , could not help adding her warm protestations to theirs . 
Anne will send for me if any thing is the matter . '' 
She said nothing , therefore , till he was out of the room , but as soon as there was only Anne to hear , `` So ! 
An excellent thought of yours , indeed , Anne ! 
The next moment she was tapping at her husband 's dressing-room door , and as Anne followed her up stairs , she was in time for the whole conversation , which began with Mary 's saying , in a tone of great exultation , `` I mean to go with you , Charles , for I am of no more use at home than you are . 
Anne will stay ; Anne undertakes to stay at home and take care of him . 
It is Anne 's own proposal , and so I shall go with you , which will be a great deal better , for I have not dined at the other house since Tuesday . 
`` This is very kind of Anne , '' was her husband 's answer , `` and I should be very glad to have you go ; but it seems rather hard that she should be left at home by herself , to nurse our sick child . '' 
Anne was now at hand to take up her own cause , and the sincerity of her manner being soon sufficient to convince him , where conviction was at least very agreeable , he had no farther scruples as to her being left to dine alone , though he still wanted her to join them in the evening , when the child might be at rest for the night , and kindly urged her to let him come and fetch her ; but she was quite unpersuadable ; and this being the case , she had ere long the pleasure of seeing them set off together in high spirits . 
They were gone , she hoped , to be happy , however oddly constructed such happiness might seem ; as for herself , she was left with as many sensations of comfort , as were , perhaps , ever likely to be hers . 
She knew herself to be of the first utility to the child ; and what was it to her , if Frederick Wentworth were only half a mile distant , making himself agreeable to others ! 
She would have liked to know how he felt as to a meeting . 
Had he wished ever to see her again , he need not have waited till this time ; he would have done what she could not but believe that in his place she should have done long ago , when events had been early giving him the independence which alone had been wanting . 
Her brother and sister came back delighted with their new acquaintance , and their visit in general . 
Anne understood it . 
He wished to avoid seeing her . 
He had enquired after her , she found , slightly , as might suit a former slight acquaintance , seeming to acknowledge such as she had acknowledged , actuated , perhaps , by the same view of escaping introduction when they were to meet . 
The morning hours of the Cottage were always later than those of the other house ; and on the morrow the difference was so great , that Mary and Anne were not more than beginning breakfast when Charles came in to say that they were just setting off , that he was come for his dogs , that his sisters were following with Captain Wentworth , his sisters meaning to visit Mary and the child , and Captain Wentworth proposing also to wait on her for a few minutes , if not inconvenient ; and though Charles had answered for the child 's being in no such state as could make it inconvenient , Captain Wentworth would not be satisfied without his running on to give notice . 
Mary , very much gratified by this attention , was delighted to receive him ; while a thousand feelings rushed on Anne , of which this was the most consoling , that it would soon be over . 
Charles shewed himself at the window , all was ready , their visitor had bowed and was gone ; the Miss Musgroves were gone too , suddenly resolving to walk to the end of the village with the sportsmen : the room was cleared , and Anne might finish her breakfast as she could . 
she repeated to herself again , and again , in nervous gratitude . 
On one other question , which perhaps her utmost wisdom might not have prevented , she was soon spared all suspense ; for after the Miss Musgroves had returned and finished their visit at the Cottage , she had this spontaneous information from Mary : `` Captain Wentworth is not very gallant by you , Anne , though he was so attentive to me . 
Anne fully submitted , in silent , deep mortification . 
Doubtless it was so ; and she could take no revenge , for he was not altered , or not for the worse . 
She had already acknowledged it to herself , and she could not think differently , let him think of her as he would . 
No ; the years which had destroyed her youth and bloom had only given him a more glowing , manly , open look , in no respect lessening his personal advantages . 
She had seen the same Frederick Wentworth . 
These were words which could not but dwell with her . 
Yet she soon began to rejoice that she had heard them . 
They were of sobering tendency ; they allayed agitation ; they composed , and consequently must make her happier . 
Frederick Wentworth had used such words , or something like them , but without an idea that they would be carried round to her . 
He had thought her wretchedly altered , and , in the first moment of appeal , had spoken as he felt . 
He had not forgiven Anne Elliot . 
She had used him ill ; deserted and disappointed him ; and worse , she had shewn a feebleness of character in doing so , which his own decided , confident temper could not endure . 
She had given him up to oblige others . 
He had been most warmly attached to her , and had never seen a woman since whom he thought her equal ; but , except from some natural sensation of curiosity , he had no desire of meeting her again . 
Her power with him was gone for ever . 
He had a heart for either of the Miss Musgroves , if they could catch it ; a heart , in short , for any pleasing young woman who came in his way , excepting Anne Elliot . 
His bright , proud eye spoke the happy conviction that he was nice ; and Anne Elliot was not out of his thoughts , when he more seriously described the woman he should wish to meet with . 
From this time Captain Wentworth and Anne Elliot were repeatedly in the same circle . 
His profession qualified him , his disposition led him , to talk ; and `` That was in the year six ; '' `` That happened before I went to sea in the year six , '' occurred in the course of the first evening they spent together : and though his voice did not falter , and though she had no reason to suppose his eye wandering towards her while he spoke , Anne felt the utter impossibility , from her knowledge of his mind , that he could be unvisited by remembrance any more than herself . 
There must be the same immediate association of thought , though she was very far from conceiving it to be of equal pain . 
With the exception , perhaps , of Admiral and Mrs. Croft , who seemed particularly attached and happy , -LRB- Anne could allow no other exception even among the married couples -RRB- there could have been no two hearts so open , no tastes so similar , no feelings so in unison , no countenances so beloved . 
When he talked , she heard the same voice , and discerned the same mind . 
There was a very general ignorance of all naval matters throughout the party ; and he was very much questioned , and especially by the two Miss Musgroves , who seemed hardly to have any eyes but for him , as to the manner of living on board , daily regulations , food , hours , & c. ; and their surprise at his accounts , at learning the degree of accommodation and arrangement which was practicable , drew from him some pleasant ridicule , which reminded Anne of the early days when she too had been ignorant , and she too had been accused of supposing sailors to be living on board without any thing to eat , or any cook to dress it if there were , or any servant to wait , or any knife and fork to use . 
From thus listening and thinking , she was roused by a whisper of Mrs. Musgrove 's , who , overcome by fond regrets , could not help saying , `` Ah ! 
Miss Anne , if it had pleased Heaven to spare my poor son , I dare say he would have been just such another by this time . '' 
Anne suppressed a smile , and listened kindly , while Mrs. Musgrove relieved her heart a little more ; and for a few minutes , therefore , could not keep pace with the conversation of the others . 
`` You will not find her there . 
I was the last man who commanded her . 
Anne 's shudderings were to herself , alone : but the Miss Musgroves could be as open as they were sincere , in their exclamations of pity and horror . 
There was a momentary expression in Captain Wentworth 's face at this speech , a certain glance of his bright eye , and curl of his handsome mouth , which convinced Anne , that instead of sharing in Mrs. Musgrove 's kind wishes , as to her son , he had probably been at some pains to get rid of him ; but it was too transient an indulgence of self-amusement to be detected by any who understood him less than herself ; in another moment he was perfectly collected and serious ; and almost instantly afterwards coming up to the sofa , on which she and Mrs. Musgrove were sitting , took a place by the latter , and entered into conversation with her , in a low voice , about her son , doing it with so much sympathy and natural grace , as shewed the kindest consideration for all that was real and unabsurd in the parent 's feelings . 
Mrs. Musgrove was of a comfortable substantial size , infinitely more fitted by nature to express good cheer and good humour , than tenderness and sentiment ; and while the agitations of Anne 's slender form , and pensive face , may be considered as very completely screened , Captain Wentworth should be allowed some credit for the self-command with which he attended to her large fat sighings over the destiny of a son , whom alive nobody had cared for . 
I declare I have not a comfort or an indulgence about me , even at Kellynch-hall , '' -LRB- with a kind bow to Anne -RRB- `` beyond what I always had in most of the ships I have lived in ; and they have been five altogether . '' 
`` Nothing to the purpose , '' replied her brother . 
On its being proposed , Anne offered her services , as usual , and though her eyes would sometimes fill with tears as she sat at the instrument , she was extremely glad to be employed , and desired nothing in return but to be unobserved . 
She felt that he had every thing to elevate him , which general attention and deference , and especially the attention of all the young women could do . 
These were some of the thoughts which occupied Anne , while her fingers were mechanically at work , proceeding for half an hour together , equally without error , and without consciousness . 
Once she felt that he was looking at herself -- observing her altered features , perhaps , trying to trace in them the ruins of the face which had once charmed him ; and once she knew that he must have spoken of her ; -- she was hardly aware of it , till she heard the answer ; but then she was sure of his having asked his partner whether Miss Elliot never danced ? 
Once , too , he spoke to her . 
She had left the instrument on the dancing being over , and he had sat down to try to make out an air which he wished to give the Miss Musgroves an idea of . 
Unintentionally she returned to that part of the room ; he saw her , and , instantly rising , said , with studied politeness , `` I beg your pardon , madam , this is your seat ; '' and though she immediately drew back with a decided negative , he was not to be induced to sit down again . 
Anne did not wish for more of such looks and speeches . 
Which of the two sisters was preferred by Captain Wentworth was as yet quite doubtful , as far as Anne 's observation reached . 
There was not the smallest appearance of solicitude or remark about them , in the Mansion-house ; but it was different at the Cottage : the young couple there were more disposed to speculate and wonder ; and Captain Wentworth had not been above four or five times in the Miss Musgroves ' company , and Charles Hayter had but just reappeared , when Anne had to listen to the opinions of her brother and sister , as to which was the one liked best . 
`` Charles may say what he pleases , '' cried Mary to Anne , as soon as he was out of the room , `` but it would be shocking to have Henrietta marry Charles Hayter ; a very bad thing for her , and still worse for me ; and therefore it is very much to be wished that Captain Wentworth may soon put him quite out of her head , and I have very little doubt that he has . 
A dinner at Mr. Musgrove 's had been the occasion , when all these things should have been seen by Anne ; but she had staid at home , under the mixed plea of a head-ache of her own , and some return of indisposition in little Charles . 
One morning , very soon after the dinner at the Musgroves , at which Anne had not been present , Captain Wentworth walked into the drawing-room at the Cottage , where were only herself and the little invalid Charles , who was lying on the sofa . 
The surprise of finding himself almost alone with Anne Elliot , deprived his manners of their usual composure : he started , and could only say , `` I thought the Miss Musgroves had been here -- Mrs. Musgrove told me I should find them here , '' before he walked to the window to recollect himself , and feel how he ought to behave . 
`` They are up stairs with my sister -- they will be down in a few moments , I dare say , '' -- had been Anne 's reply , in all the confusion that was natural ; and if the child had not called her to come and do something for him , she would have been out of the room the next moment , and released Captain Wentworth as well as herself . 
She was obliged to kneel down by the sofa , and remain there to satisfy her patient ; and thus they continued a few minutes , when , to her very great satisfaction , she heard some other person crossing the little vestibule . 
She hoped , on turning her head , to see the master of the house ; but it proved to be one much less calculated for making matters easy -- Charles Hayter , probably not at all better pleased by the sight of Captain Wentworth , than Captain Wentworth had been by the sight of Anne . 
She only attempted to say , `` How do you do ? 
Anne had soon been in company with all the four together often enough to have an opinion , though too wise to acknowledge as much at home , where she knew it would have satisfied neither husband nor wife ; for while she considered Louisa to be rather the favourite , she could not but think , as far as she might dare to judge from memory and experience , that Captain Wentworth was not in love with either . 
Anne longed for the power of representing to them all what they were about , and of pointing out some of the evils they were exposing themselves to . 
She did not attribute guile to any . 
It was the highest satisfaction to her , to believe Captain Wentworth not in the least aware of the pain he was occasioning . 
Anne could only feel that Charles Hayter was wise . 
It was a very fine November day , and the Miss Musgroves came through the little grounds , and stopped for no other purpose than to say , that they were going to take a long walk , and , therefore , concluded Mary could not like to go with them ; and when Mary immediately replied , with some jealousy , at not being supposed a good walker , `` Oh , yes , I should like to join you very much , I am very fond of a long walk , '' Anne felt persuaded , by the looks of the two girls , that it was precisely what they did not wish , and admired again the sort of necessity which the family-habits seemed to produce , of every thing being to be communicated , and every thing being to be done together , however undesired and inconvenient . 
She tried to dissuade Mary from going , but in vain ; and that being the case , thought it best to accept the Miss Musgroves ' much more cordial invitation to herself to go likewise , as she might be useful in turning back with her sister , and lessening the interference in any plan of their own . 
Could Anne have foreseen such a junction , she would have staid at home ; but , from some feelings of interest and curiosity , she fancied now that it was too late to retract , and the whole six set forward together in the direction chosen by the Miss Musgroves , who evidently considered the walk as under their guidance . 
Anne 's object was , not to be in the way of any body , and where the narrow paths across the fields made many separations necessary , to keep with her brother and sister . 
Her pleasure in the walk must arise from the exercise and the day , from the view of the last smiles of the year upon the tawny leaves and withered hedges , and from repeating to herself some few of the thousand poetical descriptions extant of autumn , that season of peculiar and inexhaustible influence on the mind of taste and tenderness , that season which has drawn from every poet , worthy of being read , some attempt at description , or some lines of feeling . 
She occupied her mind as much as possible in such like musings and quotations ; but it was not possible , that when within reach of Captain Wentworth 's conversation with either of the Miss Musgroves , she should not try to hear it ; yet she caught little very remarkable . 
Anne could not immediately fall into a quotation again . 
The sweet scenes of autumn were for a while put by -- unless some tender sonnet , fraught with the apt analogy of the declining year , with declining happiness , and the images of youth and hope , and spring , all gone together , blessed her memory . 
She roused herself to say , as they struck by order into another path , `` Is not this one of the ways to Winthrop ? '' 
But nobody heard , or , at least , nobody answered her . 
She received no other answer , than an artificial , assenting smile , followed by a contemptuous glance , as he turned away , which Anne perfectly knew the meaning of . 
-- Anne found a nice seat for her , on a dry sunny bank , under the hedge-row , in which she had no doubt of their still being -- in some spot or other . 
Anne , really tired herself , was glad to sit down ; and she very soon heard Captain Wentworth and Louisa in the hedgerow , behind her , as if making their way back , along the rough , wild sort of channel , down the centre . 
What Anne first heard was . 
It would have surprised Anne , if Louisa could have readily answered such a speech -- words of such interest , spoken with such serious warmth ! 
She has a great deal too much of the Elliot pride . 
-- We do so wish that Charles had married Anne instead . 
-- I suppose you know he wanted to marry Anne ? '' 
After a moment 's pause , Captain Wentworth said , `` Do you mean that she refused him ? '' 
-- They think Charles might not be learned and bookish enough to please Lady Russell , and that therefore , she persuaded Anne to refuse him . '' 
The sounds were retreating , and Anne distinguished no more . 
Her own emotions still kept her fixed . 
She had much to recover from , before she could move . 
The listener 's proverbial fate was not absolutely hers ; she had heard no evil of herself , -- but she had heard a great deal of very painful import . 
She saw how her own character was considered by Captain Wentworth ; and there had been just that degree of feeling and curiosity about her in his manner , which must give her extreme agitation . 
As soon as she could , she went after Mary , and having found , and walked back with her to their former station , by the stile , felt some comfort in their whole party being immediately afterwards collected , and once more in motion together . 
The minutiæ of the business Anne could not attempt to understand ; even Captain Wentworth did not seem admitted to perfect confidence here ; but that there had been a withdrawing on the gentleman 's side , and a relenting on the lady 's , and that they were now very glad to be together again , did not admit a doubt . 
In a long strip of meadow-land , where there was ample space for all , they were thus divided -- forming three distinct parties ; and to that party of the three which boasted least animation , and least complaisance , Anne necessarily belonged . 
She joined Charles and Mary , and was tired enough to be very glad of Charles 's other arm ; -- but Charles , though in very good humour with her , was out of temper with his wife . 
Mary had shewn herself disobliging to him , and was now to reap the consequence , which consequence was his dropping her arm almost every moment , to cut off the heads of some nettles in the hedge with his switch ; and when Mary began to complain of it , and lament her being ill-used , according to custom , in being on the hedge side , while Anne was never incommoded on the other , he dropped the arms of both to hunt after a weasel which he had a momentary glance of ; and they could hardly get him along at all . 
`` Miss Elliot , I am sure you are tired , '' cried Mrs. Croft . 
Anne was still in the lane ; and though instinctively beginning to decline , she was not allowed to proceed . 
-- We sailors , Miss Elliot , can not afford to make long courtships in time of war . 
`` We had better not talk about it , my dear , '' replied Mrs. Croft , pleasantly ; `` for if Miss Elliot were to hear how soon we came to an understanding , she would never be persuaded that we could be happy together . 
`` Very good humoured , unaffected girls , indeed , '' said Mrs. Croft , in a tone of calmer praise , such as made Anne suspect that her keener powers might not consider either of them as quite worthy of her brother ; `` and a very respectable family . 
But by coolly giving the reins a better direction herself , they happily passed the danger ; and by once afterwards judiciously putting out her hand , they neither fell into a rut , nor ran foul of a dungcart ; and Anne , with some amnsement at their style of driving , which she imagined no bad representation of the general guidance of their affairs , found herself safely deposited by them at the cottage . 
The time now approached for Lady Russell 's return ; the day was even fixed , and Anne , being engaged to join her as soon as she was resettled , was looking forward to an early removal to Kellynch , and beginning to think how her own comfort was likely to be affected by it . 
It would place her in the same village with Captain Wentworth , within half a mile of him ; they would have to frequent the same church , and there must be intercourse between the two families . 
This was against her ; but , on the other hand , he spent so much of his time at Uppercross , that in removing thence she might be considered rather as leaving him behind , than as going towards him ; and , upon the whole , she believed she must , on this interesting question , be the gainer , almost as certainly as in her change of domestic society , in leaving poor Mary for Lady Russell . 
Captain Wentworth talked of going there again himself ; it was only seventeen miles from Uppercross ; though November , the weather was by no means bad ; and , in short , Louisa , who was the most eager of the eager , having formed the resolution to go , and besides the pleasure of doing as she liked , being now armed with the idea of merit in maintaining her own way , bore down all the wishes of her father and mother for putting it off till summer ; and to Lyme they were to go -- Charles , Mary , Anne , Henrietta , Louisa , and Captain Wentworth . 
`` And yet , '' said Anne to herself , as they now moved forward to meet the party , `` he has not , perhaps , a more sorrowing heart than I have . 
There was so much attachment to Captain Wentworth in all this , and such a bewitching charm in a degree of hospitality so uncommon , so unlike the usual style of give-and-take invitations , and dinners of formality and display , that Anne felt her spirits not likely to be benefited by an increasing acquaintance among his brother-officers . 
`` These would have been all my friends , '' was her thought ; and she had to struggle against a great tendency to lowness . 
Anne had a moment 's astonishment on the subject herself ; but it was soon lost in the pleasanter feelings which sprang from the sight of all the ingenious contrivances and nice arrangements of Captain Harville , to turn the actual space to the best possible account , to supply the deficiencies of lodging-house furniture , and defend the windows and doors against the winter storms to be expected . 
The varieties in the fitting-up of the rooms , where the common necessaries provided by the owner , in the common indifferent plight were contrasted with some few articles of a rare species of wood , excellently worked up , and with something curious and valuable from all the distant countries Captain Harville had visited , were more than amusing to Anne : connected as it all was with his profession , the fruit of its labours , the effect of its influence on his habits , the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented , made it to her a something more , or less , than gratification . 
Anne thought she left great happiness behind her when they quitted the house ; and Louisa , by whom she found herself walking , burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of the navy -- their friendliness , their brotherliness , their openness , their uprightness ; protesting that she was convinced of sailors having more worth and warmth than any other set of men in England ; that they only knew how to live , and they only deserved to be respected and loved . 
Anne found herself by this time growing so much more hardened to being in Captain Wentworth 's company than she had at first imagined could ever be , that the sitting down to the same table with him now , and the interchange of the common civilities attending on it -- -LRB- they never got beyond -RRB- was become a mere nothing . 
While Captains Wentworth and Harville led the talk on one side of the room , and , by recurring to former days , supplied anecdotes in abundance to occupy and entertain the others , it fell to Anne 's lot to be placed rather apart with Captain Benwick ; and a very good impulse of her nature obliged her to begin an acquaintance with him . 
He was shy , and disposed to abstraction ; but the engaging mildness of her countenance , and gentleness of her manners , soon had their effect ; and Anne was well repaid the first trouble of exertion . 
He was evidently a young man of considerable taste in reading , though principally in poetry ; and besides the persuasion of having given him at least an evening 's indulgence in the discussion of subjects , which his usual companions had probably no concern in , she had the hope of being of real use to him in some suggestions as to the duty and benefit of struggling against affliction , which had naturally grown out of their conversation . 
When the evening was over , Anne could not but be amused at the idea of her coming to Lyme , to preach patience and resignation to a young man whom she had never seen before ; nor could she help fearing , on more serious reflection , that , like many other great moralists and preachers , she had been eloquent on a point in which her own conduct would ill bear examination . 
Anne and Henrietta , finding themselves the earliest of the party the next morning , agreed to stroll down to the sea before breakfast . 
-- Do not you , Anne ? 
Do not you think , Anne , it is being over-scrupulous ? 
Anne smiled more than once to herself during this speech , and entered into the subject , as ready to do good by entering into the feelings of a young lady as of a young man , -- though here it was good of a lower standard , for what could be offered but general acquiescence ? 
Anne was amused by Henrietta 's manner of being grateful , and amused also , that the course of events and the new interests of Henrietta 's views should have placed her friend at all in favour with any of the Musgrove family ; she had only time , however , for a general answer , and a wish that such another woman were at Uppercross , before all subjects suddenly ceased , on seeing Louisa and Captain Wentworth coming towards them . 
They ascended and passed him ; and as they passed , Anne 's face caught his eye , and he looked at her with a degree of earnest admiration , which she could not be insensible of . 
She was looking remarkably well ; her very regular , very pretty features , having the bloom and freshness of youth restored by the fine wind which had been blowing on her complexion , and by the animation of eye which it had also produced . 
It was evident that the gentleman , -LRB- completely a gentleman in manner -RRB- admired her exceedingly . 
Captain Wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it . 
He gave her a momentary glance , -- a glance of brightness , which seemed to say , `` That man is struck with you , -- and even I , at this moment , see something like Anne Elliot again . '' 
After attending Louisa through her business , and loitering about a little longer , they returned to the inn ; and Anne in passing afterwards quickly from her own chamber to their dining-room , had nearly run against the very same gentleman , as he came out of an adjoining apartment . 
She had before conjectured him to be a stranger like themselves , and determined that a well-looking groom , who was strolling about near the two inns as they came back , should be his servant . 
Anne felt that she should like to know who he was . 
The word curricle made Charles Musgrove jump up , that he might compare it with his own , the servant in mourning roused Anne 's curiosity , and the whole six were collected to look , by the time the owner of the curricle was to be seen issuing from the door amidst the bows and civilities of the household , and taking his seat , to drive off . 
cried Captain Wentworth , instantly , and with half a glance at Anne ; `` it is the very man we passed . '' 
-- Charles , Anne , must not it ? 
Anne , must not it be our Mr. Elliot ; my father 's next heir ? 
But , Anne , only conceive how extraordinary ! 
When she could command Mary 's attention , Anne quietly tried to convince her that their father and Mr. Elliot had not , for many years , been on such terms as to make the power of attempting an introduction at all desirable . 
At the same time , however , it was a secret gratification to herself to have seen her cousin , and to know that the future owner of Kellynch was undoubtedly a gentleman , and had an air of good sense . 
She would not , upon any account , mention her having met with him the second time ; luckily Mary did not much attend to their having passed close by him in their early walk , but she would have felt quite ill-used by Anne 's having actually run against him in the passage , and received his very polite excuses , while she had never been near him at all ; no , that cousinly little interview must remain a perfect secret . 
Anne avoided a direct reply , but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary to be communicated , but as what ought to be suppressed . 
The offence which had been given her father , many years back , she knew ; Elizabeth 's particular share in it she suspected ; and that Mr. Elliot 's idea always produced irritation in both , was beyond a doubt . 
Mary never wrote to Bath herself ; all the toil of keeping up a slow and unsatisfactory correspondence with Elizabeth fell on Anne . 
Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her , as soon as they were all fairly in the street . 
Their conversation , the preceding evening , did not disincline him to seek her again ; and they walked together some time , talking as before of Mr. Scott and Lord Byron , and still as unable , as before , and as unable as any other two readers , to think exactly alike of the merits of either , till something occasioned an almost general change amongst their party , and instead of Captain Benwick , she had Captain Harville by her side . 
`` Miss Elliot , '' said he , speaking rather low , `` you have done a good deed in making that poor fellow talk so much . 
`` No , '' said Anne , `` that I can easily believe to be impossible ; but in time , perhaps -- we know what time does in every case of affliction , and you must remember , Captain Harville , that your friend may yet be called a young mourner -- Only last summer , I understand . '' 
You may think , Miss Elliot , whether he is dear to us ! '' 
Anne did think on the question with perfect decision , and said as much in reply as her own feelings could accomplish , or as his seemed able to bear , for he was too much affected to renew the subject -- and when he spoke again , it was of something totally different . 
Anne found Captain Benwick again drawing near her . 
Lord Byron 's `` dark blue seas '' could not fail of being brought forward by their present view , and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible . 
`` She is dead ! 
she is dead ! '' 
screamed Mary , catching hold of her husband , and contributing with his own horror to make him immoveable ; and in another moment , Henrietta , sinking under the conviction , lost her senses too , and would have fallen on the steps , but for Captain Benwick and Anne , who caught and supported her between them . 
`` Go to him , go to him , '' cried Anne , `` for heaven 's sake go to him . 
I can support her myself . 
Rub her hands , rub her temples ; here are salts , -- take them , take them . '' 
Captain Benwick obeyed , and Charles at the same moment , disengaging himself from his wife , they were both with him ; and Louisa was raised up and supported more firmly between them , and every thing was done that Anne had prompted , but in vain ; while Captain Wentworth , staggering against the wall for his support , exclaimed in the bitterest agony , `` Oh God ! 
her father and mother ! '' 
said Anne . 
He caught the word ; it seemed to rouse him at once , and saying only `` True , true , a surgeon this instant , '' was darting away , when Anne eagerly suggested , `` Captain Benwick , would not it be better for Captain Benwick ? 
As to the wretched party left behind , it could scarcely be said which of the three , who were completely rational , was suffering most , Captain Wentworth , Anne , or Charles , who , really a very affectionate brother , hung over Louisa with sobs of grief , and could only turn his eyes from one sister , to see the other in a state as insensible , or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife , calling on him for help which he could not give . 
Anne , attending with all the strength and zeal , and thought , which instinct supplied , to Henrietta , still tried , at intervals , to suggest comfort to the others , tried to quiet Mary , to animate Charles , to assuage the feelings of Captain Wentworth . 
`` Anne , Anne , '' cried Charles , `` what is to be done next ? 
`` Had not she better be carried to the inn ? 
Yes , I am sure , carry her gently to the inn . '' 
`` I will carry her myself . 
To some of the best-looking of these good people Henrietta was consigned , for , though partially revived , she was quite helpless ; and in this manner , Anne walking by her side , and Charles attending to his wife , they set forward , treading back with feelings unutterable , the ground which so lately , so very lately , and so light of heart , they had passed along . 
was uttered by Captain Wentworth , Anne was sure could never be forgotten by her ; nor the sight of him afterwards , as he sat near a table , leaning over it with folded arms , and face concealed , as if overpowered by the various feelings of his soul , and trying by prayer and reflection to calm them . 
The plan had reached this point , when Anne , coming quietly down from Louisa 's room , could not but hear what followed , for the parlour door was open . 
-- Mrs. Charles Musgrove will , of course , wish to get back to her children ; but , if Anne will stay , no one so proper , so capable as Anne ! '' 
She was so wretched , and so vehement , complained so much of injustice in being expected to go away , instead of Anne ; -- Anne , who was nothing to Louisa , while she was her sister , and had the best right to stay in Henrietta 's stead ! 
Why was not she to be as useful as Anne ? 
And , in short , she said more than her husband could long withstand ; and as none of the others could oppose when he gave way , there was no help for it : the change of Mary for Anne was inevitable . 
Anne had never submitted more reluctantly to the jealous and ill-judging claims of Mary ; but so it must be , and they set off for the town , Charles taking care of his sister , and Captain Benwick attending to her . 
Captain Wentworth was on the watch for them , and a chaise and four in waiting , stationed for their convenience in the lowest part of the street ; but his evident surprise and vexation , at the substitution of one sister for the other -- the change of his countenance -- the astonishment -- the expressions begun and suppressed , with which Charles was listened to , made but a mortifying reception of Anne ; or must at least convince her that she was valued only as she could be useful to Louisa . 
He had handed them both in , and placed himself between them ; and in this manner , under these circumstances full of astonishment and emotion to Anne , she quitted Lyme . 
How the long stage would pass ; how it was to affect their manners ; what was to be their sort of intercourse , she could not foresee . 
Anne wondered whether it ever occurred to him now , to question the justness of his own previous opinion as to the universal felicity and advantage of firmness of character ; and whether it might not strike him , that , like all other qualities of the mind , it should have its proportions and limits . 
She thought it could scarcely escape him to feel , that a persuadable temper might sometimes be as much in favour of happiness , as a very resolute character . 
Anne was astonished to recognise the same hills and the same objects so soon . 
It was growing quite dusk , however , before they were in the neighbourhood of Uppercross , and there had been total silence among them for some time , Henrietta leaning back in the corner , with a shawl over her face , giving the hope of her having cried herself to sleep ; when , as they were going up their last hill , Anne found herself all at once addressed by Captain Wentworth . 
She did : he was satisfied , and said no more . 
But the remembrance of the appeal remained a pleasure to her -- as a proof of friendship , and of deference for her judgment , a great pleasure ; and when it became a sort of parting proof , its value did not lessen . 
The remainder of Anne 's time at Uppercross comprehending only two days , was spent entirely at the mansion-house , and she had the satisfaction of knowing herself extremely useful there , both as an immediate companion , and as assisting in all those arrangements for the future , which , in Mr. and Mrs. Musgrove 's distressed state of spirits , would have been difficulties . 
Vague wishes of getting Sarah thither , had occurred before to Mrs. Musgrove and Henrietta ; but without Anne , it would hardly have been resolved on , and found practicable so soon . 
Anne was to leave them on the morrow , an event which they all dreaded . 
And so much was said in this way , that Anne thought she could not do better than impart among them the general inclination to which she was privy , and persuade them all to go to Lyme at once . 
She had little difficulty ; it was soon determined that they would go , go to-morrow , fix themselves at the inn , or get into lodgings , as it suited , and there remain till dear Louisa could be moved . 
They must be taking off some trouble from the good people she was with ; they might at least relieve Mrs. Harville from the care of her own children ; and in short they were so happy in the decision , that Anne was delighted with what she had done , and felt that she could not spend her last morning at Uppercross better than in assisting their preparations , and sending them off at an early hour , though her being left to the solitary range of the house was the consequence . 
She was the last , excepting the little boys at the cottage , she was the very last , the only remaining one of all that had filled and animated both houses , of all that had given Uppercross its cheerful character . 
A few months hence , and the now room so deserted , occupied but by her silent , pensive self , might be filled again with all that was happy and gay , all that was glowing and bright in prosperous love , all that was most unlike Anne Elliot ! 
Anne had never entered Kellynch since her quitting Lady Russell 's house , in September . 
It had not been necessary , and the few occasions of its being possible for her to go to the hall she had contrived to evade and escape from . 
Her first return , was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the lodge , and to gladden the eyes of its mistress . 
But happily , either Anne was improved in plumpness and looks , or Lady Russell fancied her so ; and Anne , in receiving her compliments on the occasion , had the amusement of connecting them with the silent admiration of her cousin , and of hoping that she was to be blessed with a second spring of youth and beauty . 
When they came to converse , she was soon sensible of some mental change . 
The subjects of which her heart had been full on leaving Kellynch , and which she had felt slighted , and been compelled to smother among the Musgroves , were now become but of secondary interest . 
She had lately lost sight even of her father and sister and Bath . 
Their concerns had been sunk under those of Uppercross , and when Lady Russell reverted to their former hopes and fears , and spoke her satisfaction in the house in Camden-place , which had been taken , and her regret that Mrs. Clay should still be with them , Anne would have been ashamed to have it known , how much more she was thinking of Lyme , and Louisa Musgrove , and all her acquaintance there ; how much more interesting to her was the home and the friendship of the Harvilles and Captain Benwick , than her own father 's house in Camden-place , or her own sister 's intimacy with Mrs. Clay . 
Anne was conscious of not doing it so well as Lady Russell . 
Lady Russell had only to listen composedly , and wish them happy ; but internally her heart revelled in angry pleasure , in pleased contempt , that the man who at twenty-three had seemed to understand some what of the value of an Anne Elliot , should , eight years afterwards , be charmed by a Louisa Musgrove . 
The first three or four days passed most quietly , with no circumstance to mark them excepting the receipt of a note or two from Lyme , which found their way to Anne , she could not tell how , and brought a rather improving account of Louisa . 
Anne , have you courage to go with me , and pay a visit in that house ? 
Anne did not shrink from it ; on the contrary , she truly felt as she said , in observing , `` I think you are very likely to suffer the most of the two ; your feelings are less reconciled to the change than mine . 
She could have said more on the subject ; for she had in fact so high an opinion of the Crofts , and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants , felt the parish to be so sure of a good example , and the poor of the best attention and relief , that however sorry and ashamed for the necessity of the removal , she could not but in conscience feel that they were gone who deserved not to stay , and that Kellynch-hall had passed into better hands than its owners . 
In such moments Anne had no power of saying to herself , `` These rooms ought to belong only to us . 
No , except when she thought of her mother , and remembered where she had been used to sit and preside , she had no sigh of that description to heave . 
The sad accident at Lyme was soon the prevailing topic ; and on comparing their latest accounts of the invalid , it appeared that each lady dated her intelligence from the same hour of yester morn , that Captain Wentworth had been in Kellynch yesterday -- -LRB- the first time since the accident -RRB- had brought Anne the last note , which she had not been able to trace the exact steps of , had staid a few hours and then returned again to Lyme -- and without any present intention of quitting it any more . 
-- He had enquired after her , she found , particularly ; -- had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot 's not being the worse for her exertions , and had spoken of those exertions as great . 
-- This was hansome , -- and gave her more pleasure than almost any thing else could have done . 
-- is not it , Miss Elliot ? 
Admiral Croft 's manners were not quite of the tone to suit Lady Russell , but they delighted Anne . 
Anne , finding she might decline it , did so , very gratefully . 
A very good man , and very much the gentleman I am sure -- but I should think , Miss Elliot '' -LRB- looking with serious reflection -RRB- `` I should think he must be rather a dressy man for his time of life . 
Anne , amused in spite of herself , was rather distressed for an answer , and the Admiral , fearing he might not have been civil enough , took up the subject again , to say , `` The next time you write to your good father , Miss Elliot , pray give my compliments and Mrs. Croft 's , and say that we are settled here quite to our liking , and have no fault at all to find with the place . 
So ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Wentworth at Kellynch-hall , or of seeing him in company with her friend . 
Every thing was safe enough and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject . 
Though Charles and Mary had remained at Lyme much longer after Mr. and Mrs. Musgrove 's going , than Anne conceived they could have been at all wanted , they were yet the first of the family to be at home again , and as soon as possible after their return to Uppercross , they drove over to the lodge . 
Anne enquired after Captain Benwick . 
-- It was all your doing , '' -LRB- turning to Anne . -RRB- 
But Mary did not give into it very graciously ; whether from not considering Captain Benwick entitled by birth and situation to be in love with an Elliot , or from not wanting to believe Anne a greater attraction to Uppercross than herself , must be left to be guessed . 
Anne 's good-will , however , was not to be lessened by what she heard . 
She boldly acknowledged herself flattered , and continued her enquiries . 
`` I declare , Charles , I never heard him mention Anne twice all the time I was there . 
I declare , Anne , he never talks of you at all , '' `` No , '' admitted Charles , `` I do not know that he ever does , in a general way -- but however , it is a very clear thing that he admires you exceedingly . 
I can not pretend to remember it , but it was something very fine -- I overheard him telling Henrietta all about it -- and then `` Miss Elliot '' was spoken of in the highest terms ! 
there was no end of Miss Elliot 's charms . '' 
`` Any acquaintance of Anne 's will always be welcome to me , '' was Lady Russell 's kind answer . 
as to being Anne 's acquaintance , '' said Mary , `` I think he is rather my acquaintance , for I have been seeing him every day this last fortnight . '' 
`` There we differ , Mary , '' said Anne . 
`` So do I , Anne , '' said Charles . 
With regard to Captain Wentworth , though Anne hazarded no enquiries , there was voluntary communication sufficient . 
There can be no doubt that Lady Russell and Anne were both occasionally thinking of Captain Benwick , from this time . 
Lady Russell could not hear the door-bell without feeling that it might be his herald ; nor could Anne return from any stroll of solitary indulgence in her father 's grounds , or any visit of charity in the village , without wondering whether she might see him or hear of him . 
Lady Russell and Anne paid their compliments to them once , when Anne could not but feel that Uppercross was already quite alive again . 
Anne , judging from her own temperament , would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves , which Louisa 's illness must have so greatly shaken ; but Mrs. Musgrove , who got Anne near her on purpose to thank her most cordially , again and again , for all her attentions to them , concluded a short recapitulation of what she had suffered herself , by observing , with a happy glance round the room , that after all she had gone through , nothing was so likely to do her good as a little quiet cheerfulness at home . 
Anne did not share these feelings . 
She persisted in a very determined , though very silent , disinclination for Bath ; caught the first dim view of the extensive buildings , smoking in rain , without any wish of seeing them better ; felt their progress through the streets to be , however disagreeable , yet too rapid ; for who would be glad to see her when she arrived ? 
Anne was not animated to an equal pitch by the circumstance ; but she felt that she would rather see Mr. Elliot again than not , which was more than she could say for many other persons in Bath . 
She was put down in Camden-place ; and Lady Russell then drove to her own lodgings , in Rivers-street . 
Anne entered it with a sinking heart , anticipating an imprisonment of many months , and anxiously saying to herself , `` Oh ! 
A degree of unexpected cordiality , however , in the welcome she received , did her good . 
Her father and sister were glad to see her , for the sake of shewing her the house and furniture , and met her with kindness . 
Her making a fourth , when they sat down to dinner , was noticed as an advantage . 
Anne had always felt that she would pretend what was proper on her arrival ; but the complaisance of the others was unlooked for . 
They were evidently in excellent spirits , and she was soon to listen to the causes . 
They had no inclination to listen to her . 
After laying out for some compliments of being deeply regretted in their old neighbourhood , which Anne could not pay , they had only a few saint enquiries to make , before the talk must be all their own . 
They had the pleasure of assuring her that Bath more than answered their expectations in every respect . 
Could Anne wonder that her father and sister were happy ? 
She might not wonder , but she must sigh that her father should feel no degradation in his change ; should see nothing to regret in the duties and dignity of the resident land-holder ; should find so much to be vain of in the littlenesses of a town ; and she must sigh , and smile , and wonder too , as Elizabeth threw open the folding-doors , and walked with exultation from one drawing-room to the other boasting of their space , at the possibility of that woman , who had been mistress of Kellynch Hall , finding extent to be proud of between two walls , perhaps thirty feet asunder . 
Anne had a great deal to hear of Mr. Elliot . 
Without that attraction , not all her money would have tempted Elliot , and Sir Walter was , moreover , assured of her having been a very fine woman . 
Anne listened , but without quite understanding it . 
Allowances , large allowances , she knew , must be made for the ideas of those who spoke . 
She heard it all under embellishment . 
Still , however , she had the sensation of there being something more than immediately appeared , in Mr. Elliot 's wishing , after an interval of so many years , to be well received by them . 
Anne mentioned the glimpses she had had of him at Lyme , but without being much attended to . 
They could not listen to her description of him . 
Anne was considering whether she should venture to suggest that a gown , or a cap , would not be liable to any such misuse , when a knock at the door suspended every thing . 
Anne drew a little back , while the others received his compliments , and her sister his apologies for calling at so unusual an hour , but `` he could not be so near without wishing to know that neither she nor her friend had taken cold the day before , & c. & c. '' which was all as politely done , and as politely taken as possible , but her part must follow then . 
Sir Walter talked of his youngest daughter ; `` Mr. Elliot must give him leave to present him to his youngest daughter '' -- -LRB- there was no occasion for remembering Mary -RRB- and Anne ' smiling and blushing , very becomingly shewed to Mr. Elliot the pretty features which he had by no means forgotten , and instantly saw , with amusement at his little start of surprise , that he had not been at all aware of who she was . 
He was quite as good-looking as he had appeared at Lyme , his countenance improved by speaking , and his manners were so exactly what they ought to be , so polished , so easy , so particularly agreeable , that she could compare them in excellence to only one person 's manners . 
As soon as he could , he began to talk to her of Lyme , wanting to compare opinions respecting the place , but especially wanting to speak of the circumstance of their happening to be guests in the same inn at the same time , to give his own route , understand something of hers , and regret that he should have lost such an opportunity of paying his respects to her . 
She gave him a short account of her party , and business at Lyme . 
But he must not be addressing his reflections to Anne alone ; he knew it ; he was soon diffused again among the others , and it was only at intervals that he could return to Lyme . 
His enquiries , however , produced at length an account of the scene she had been engaged in there , soon after his leaving the place . 
Anne could not have supposed it possible that her first evening in Camden-place could have passed so well ! 
There was one point which Anne , on returning to her family , would have been more thankful to ascertain , even than Mr. Elliot 's being in love with Elizabeth , which was , her father 's not being in love with Mrs. Clay ; and she was very far from easy about it , when she had been at home a few hours . 
She could imagine Mrs. Clay to have said , that `` now Miss Anne was come , she could not suppose herself at all wanted ; '' for Elizabeth was replying , in a sort of whisper , `` That must not be any reason , indeed . 
She is nothing to me , compared with you ; '' and she was in full time to hear her father say , `` My dear Madam , this must not be . 
He spoke and looked so much in earnest , that Anne was not surprised to see Mrs. Clay stealing a glance at Elizabeth and herself . 
In the course of the same morning , Anne and her father chancing to be alone together , he began to compliment her on her improved looks ; he thought her `` less thin in her person , in her cheeks ; her skin , her complexion , greatly improved -- clearer , fresher . 
Such personal praise might have struck her , especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened . 
The sight of Mrs. Clay in such favour , and of Anne so overlooked , was a perpetual provocation to her there ; and vexed her as much when she was away , as a person in Bath who drinks the water , gets all the new publications , and has a very large acquaintance , has time to be vexed . 
As Mr. Elliot became known to her , she grew more charitable , or more indifferent , towards the others . 
His manners were an immediate recommendation ; and on conversing with him she found the solid so fully supporting the superficial , that she was at first , as she told Anne , almost ready to exclaim , `` Can this be Mr. Elliot ? '' 
It was now some years since Anne had begun to learn that she and her excellent friend could sometimes think differently ; and it did not surprise her , therefore , that Lady Russell should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent , nothing to require more motives than appeared , in Mr. Elliot 's great desire of a reconciliation . 
Anne presumed , however , still to smile about it ; and at last to mention `` Elizabeth . '' 
It was a reference to the future , which Anne , after a little observation , felt she must submit to . 
She could determine nothing at present . 
In that house Elizabeth must be first ; and she was in the habit of such general observance as `` Miss Elliot , '' that any particularity of attention seemed almost impossible . 
In fact , Anne could never see the crape round his hat , without fearing that she was the inexcusable one , in attributing to him such imaginations ; for though his marriage had not been very happy , still it had existed so many years that she could not comprehend a very rapid recovery from the awful impression of its being dissolved . 
However it might end , he was without any question their pleasantest acquaintance in Bath ; she saw nobody equal to him ; and it was a great indulgence now and then to talk to him about Lyme , which he seemed to have as lively a wish to see again , and to see more of , as herself . 
He gave her to understand that he had looked at her with some earnestness . 
She knew it well ; and she remembered another person 's look also . 
His value for rank and connexion she perceived to be greater than hers . 
It was not merely complaisance , it must be a liking to the cause , which made him enter warmly into her father and sister 's solicitudes on a subject which she thought unworthy to excite them . 
The Bath paper one morning announced the arrival of the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple , and her daughter , the Honourable Miss Carteret ; and all the comfort of No . 
-- , Camden-place , was swept away for many days ; for the Dalrymples -LRB- in Anne 's opinion , most unfortunately -RRB- were cousins of the Elliots ; and the agony was , how to introduce themselves properly . 
Anne had never seen her father and sister before in contact with nobility , and she must acknowledge herself disappointed . 
She had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own situation in life , and was reduced to form a wish which she had never foreseen -- a wish that they had more pride ; for `` our cousins Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret ; '' `` our cousins , the Dalrymples , '' sounded in her ears all day long . 
Anne was ashamed . 
Lady Russell confessed that she had expected something better ; but yet `` it was an acquaintance worth having , '' and when Anne ventured to speak her opinion of them to Mr. Elliot , he agreed to their being nothing in themselves , but still maintained that as a family connexion , as good company , as those who would collect good company around them , they had their value . 
Anne smiled and said , `` My idea of good company , Mr. Elliot , is the company of clever , well-informed people , who have a great deal of conversation ; that is what I call good company . '' 
My cousin , Anne , shakes her head . 
She is not satisfied . 
She is fastidious . 
My dear cousin , -LRB- sitting down by her -RRB- you have a better right to be fastidious than almost any other woman I know ; but will it answer ? 
`` Yes , '' sighed Anne , `` we shall , indeed , be known to be related to them ! '' 
-- then recollecting herself , and not wishing to be answered , she added , `` I certainly do think there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance . 
`` Well , '' said Anne , `` I certainly am proud , too proud to enjoy a welcome which depends so entirely upon place . '' 
He looked , as he spoke , to the seat which Mrs. Clay had been lately occupying , a sufficient explanation of what he particularly meant ; and though Anne could not believe in their having the same sort of pride , she was pleased with him for not liking Mrs. Clay ; and her conscience admitted that his wishing to promote her father 's getting great acquaintance , was more than excusable in the view of defeating her . 
While Sir Walter and Elizabeth were assiduously pushing their good fortune in Laura-place , Anne was renewing an acquaintance of a very different description . 
She had called on her former governess , and had heard from her of there being an old school-fellow in Bath , who had the two strong claims on her attention , of past kindness and present suffering . 
Anne had gone unhappy to school , grieving for the loss of a mother whom she had dearly loved , feeling her separation from home , and suffering as a girl of fourteen , of strong sensibility and not high spirits , must suffer at such a time ; and Miss Hamilton , three years older than herself , but still from the want of near relations and a settled home , remaining another year at school , had been useful and good to her in a way which had considerably lessened her misery , and could never be remembered with indifference . 
Miss Hamilton had left school , had married not long afterwards , was said to have married a man of fortune , and this was all that Anne had known of her , till now that their governess 's account brought her situation forward in a more decided but very different form . 
She was a widow , and poor . 
Her husband had been extravagant ; and at his death , about two years before , had left his affairs dreadfully involved . 
She had had difficulties of every sort to contend with , and in addition to these distresses , had been afflicted with a severe rheumatic fever , which finally settling in her legs , had made her for the present a cripple . 
She had come to Bath on that account , and was now in lodgings near the hot baths , living in a very humble way , unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant , and of course almost excluded from society . 
Their mutual friend answered for the satisfaction which a visit from Miss Elliot would give Mrs. Smith , and Anne therefore lost no time in going . 
She mentioned nothing of what she had heard , or what she intended , at home . 
She only consulted Lady Russell , who entered thoroughly into her sentiments , and was most happy to convey her as near to Mrs. Smith 's lodgings in Westgate-buildings , as Anne chose to be taken . 
Twelve years had changed Anne from the blooming , silent , unformed girl of fifteen , to the elegant little woman of seven and twenty , with every beauty excepting bloom , and with manners as consciously right as they were invariably gentle ; and twelve years had transformed the fine-looking , well-grown Miss Hamilton , in all the glow of health and confidence of superiority , into a poor , infirm , helpless widow , receiving the visit of her former protegeé as a favour ; but all that was uncomfortable in the meeting had soon passed away , and left only the interesting charm of remembering former partialities and talking over old times . 
Anne found in Mrs. Smith the good sense and agreeable manners which she had almost ventured to depend on , and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation . 
Neither the dissipations of the past -- and she had lived very much in the world , nor the restrictions of the present ; neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have closed her heart or ruined her spirits . 
In the course of a second visit she talked with great openness , and Anne 's astonishment increased . 
She could scarcely imagine a more cheerless situation in itself than Mrs. Smith 's . 
-- Yet , in spite of all this , Anne had reason to believe that she had moments only of languor and depression , to hours of occupation and enjoyment . 
-- She watched -- observed -- reflected -- and finally determined that this was not a case of fortitude or of resignation only . 
-- A submissive spirit might be patient , a strong understanding would supply resolution , but here was something more ; here was that elasticity of mind , that disposition to be comforted , that power of turning readily from evil to good , and of finding employment which carried her out of herself , which was from Nature alone . 
It was the choicest gift of Heaven ; and Anne viewed her friend as one of those instances in which , by a merciful appointment , it seems designed to counterbalance almost every other want . 
Anne , far from wishing to cavil at the pleasure , replied , `` I can easily believe it . 
Anne saw the misery of such feelings . 
Anne had called several times on her friend , before the existence of such a person was known in Camden-place . 
At last , it became necessary to speak of her . 
-- Sir Walter , Elizabeth and Mrs. Clay returned one morning from Laura-place , with a sudden invitation from Lady Dalrymple for the same evening , and Anne was already engaged , to spend that evening in Westgate-buildings . 
She was not sorry for the excuse . 
They were only asked , she was sure , because Lady Dalrymple being kept at home by a bad cold , was glad to make use of the relationship which had been so pressed on her , -- and she declined on her own account with great alacrity -- `` She was engaged to spend the evening with and old schoolfellow . '' 
They were not much interested in any thing relative to Anne , but still there were questions enough asked , to make it understood what this old schoolfellow was ; and Elizabeth was disdainful , and Sir Walter severe . 
said he ; `` and who is Miss Anne Elliot to be visiting in Westgate-buildings ? 
-- Upon my word , Miss Anne Elliot , you have the most extraordinary taste ! 
`` She sees nothing to blame in it , '' replied Anne ; `` on the contrary , she approves it ; and has generally taken me , when I have called on Mrs. Smith . '' 
-- `` Sir Henry Russell 's widow , indeed , has no honours to distinguish her arms ; but still , it is a handsome equipage , and no doubt is well known to convey a Miss Elliot . 
-- A poor widow , barely able to live , between thirty and forty -- a mere Mrs. Smith , an every day Mrs. Smith , of all people and all names in the world , to be the chosen friend of Miss Anne Elliot , and to be preferred by her , to her own family connections among the nobility of England and Ireland ! 
Mrs. Clay , who had been present while all this passed , now thought it advisable to leave the room , and Anne could have said much and did long to say a little , in defence of her friend 's not very dissimilar claims to theirs , but her sense of personal respect to her father prevented her . 
She made no reply . 
She left it to himself to recollect , that Mrs. Smith was not the only widow in Bath between thirty and forty , with little to live on , and no sirname of dignity . 
Anne kept her appointment ; the others kept theirs , and of course she heard the next morning that they had had a delightful evening . 
-- She had been the only one of the set absent ; for Sir Walter and Elizabeth had not only been quite at her ladyship 's service themselves , but had actually been happy to be employed by her in collecting others , and had been at the trouble of inviting both Lady Russell and Mr. Elliot ; and Mr. Elliot had made a point of leaving Colonel Wallis early , and Lady Russell had fresh arranged all her evening engagements in order to wait on her . 
Anne had the whole history of all that such an evening could supply , from Lady Russell . 
He could meet even Lady Russell in a discussion of her merits ; and Anne could not be given to understand so much by her friend , could not know herself to be so highly rated by a sensible man , without many of those agreeable sensations which her friend meant to create . 
She was as much convinced of his meaning to gain Anne in time , as of his deserving her ; and was beginning to calculate the number of weeks which would free him from all the remaining restraints of widowhood , and leave him at liberty to exert his most open powers of pleasing . 
She would not speak to Anne with half the certainty she felt on the subject , she would venture on little more than hints of what might be hereafter , of a possible attachment on his side , of the desirableness of the alliance , supposing such attachment to be real , and returned . 
Anne heard her , and made no violent exclamations . 
She only smiled , blushed , and gently shook her head . 
`` Mr. Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man , and in many respects I think highly of him , '' said Anne ; `` but we should not suit . '' 
My dearest Anne , it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life ! '' 
Anne was obliged to turn away , to rise , to walk to a distant table , and leaning there in pretended employment , try to subdue the feeling this picture excited . 
For a few moments her imagination and her heart were bewitched . 
The idea of becoming what her mother had been ; of having the precious name of `` Lady Elliot '' first revived in herself ; of being restored to Kellynch , calling it her home again , her home for ever , was a charm which she could not immediately resist . 
-- She believed , in short , what Anne did not believe . 
The same image of Mr. Elliot speaking for himself , brought Anne to composure again . 
She never could accept him . 
And it was not only that her feelings were still adverse to any man save one ; her judgment , on a serious consideration of the possibilities of such a case , was against Mr. Elliot . 
Though they had now been acquainted a month , she could not be satisfied that she really knew his character . 
He certainly knew what was right , nor could she fix on any one article of moral duty evidently transgressed ; but yet she would have been afraid to answer for his conduct . 
She distrusted the past , if not the present . 
She saw that there had been bad habits ; that Sunday-travelling had been a common thing ; that there had been a period of his life -LRB- and probably not a short one -RRB- when he had been , at least , careless on all serious matters ; and , though he might now think very differently , who could answer for the true sentiments of a clever , cautious man , grown old enough to appreciate a fair character ? 
This , to Anne , was a decided imperfection . 
Her early impressions were incurable . 
She prized the frank , the open-hearted , the eager character beyond all others . 
Warmth and enthusiasm did captivate her still . 
She felt that she could so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a careless or a hasty thing , than of those whose presence of mind never varied , whose tongue never slipped . 
Various as were the tempers in her father 's house , he pleased them all . 
He had spoken to her with some degree of openness of Mrs. Clay ; had appeared completely to see what Mrs. Clay was about , and to hold her in contempt ; and yet Mrs. Clay found him as agreeable as anybody . 
She could not imagine a man more exactly what he ought to be than Mr. Elliot ; nor did she ever enjoy a sweeter feeling than the hope of seeing him receive the hand of her beloved Anne in Kellynch church , in the course of the following autumn . 
It was the beginning of February ; and Anne , having been a month in Bath , was growing very eager for news from Uppercross and Lyme . 
She wanted to hear much more than Mary communicated . 
Anne could listen no longer ; she could not even have told how the poor Admiral 's complexion escaped ; her letter engrossed her . 
Sir Walter wanted to know whether the Crofts travelled with four horses , and whether they were likely to be situated in such a part of Bath as it might suit Miss Elliot and himself to visit in ; but had little curiosity beyond . 
This was Sir Walter and Elizabeth 's share of interest in the letter ; when Mrs. Clay had paid her tribute of more decent attention , in an enquiry after Mrs. Charles Musgrove , and her fine little boys , Anne was at liberty . 
That was a point which Anne had not been able to avoid suspecting before ; and instead of drawing the same conclusion as Mary , from the present course of events , they served only to confirm the idea of his having felt some dawning of tenderness toward herself . 
No , it was not regret which made Anne 's heart beat in spite of herself , and brought the colour into her cheeks when she thought of Captain Wentworth unshackled and free . 
She had some feelings which she was ashamed to investigate . 
She longed to see the Crofts , but when the meeting took place , it was evident that no rumour of the news had yet reached them . 
Anne saw them where-ever she went . 
Anne was too much engaged with Lady Russell to be often walking herself , but it so happened that one morning , about a week or ten days after the Crofts ' arrival , it suited her best to leave her friend , or her friend 's carriage , in the lower part of the town , and return alone to Camden-place ; and in walking up Milsom-street , she had the good fortune to meet with the Admiral . 
He was standing by himself , at a printshop window , with his hands behind him , in earnest contemplation of some print , and she not only might have passed him unseen , but was obliged to touch as well as address him before she could catch his notice . 
When he did perceive and acknowledge her , however , it was done with all his usual frankness and good humour . 
How do you like Bath , Miss Elliot ? 
When they were got a little farther , Anne ventured to press again for what he had to communicate . 
She had hoped , when clear of Milsom-street , to have her curiosity gratified ; but she was still obliged to wait , for the Admiral had made up his mind not to begin , till they had gained the greater space and quiet of Belmont , and as she was not really Mrs. Croft , she must let him have his own way . 
Anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she really did ; but now she could safely suggest the name of `` Louisa . '' 
`` I thought Captain Benwick a very pleasing young man , '' said Anne , `` and I understand that he bears an excellent character . '' 
Anne was caught . 
She had only meant to oppose the too-common idea of spirit and gentleness being incompatible with each other , not at all to represent Captain Benwick 's manners as the very best that could possibly be , and , after a little hesitation , she was beginning to say , `` I was not entering into any comparison of the two friends , '' but the Admiral interrupted her with , `` And the thing is certainly true . 
This was an opportunity which Anne could not resist ; she said , therefore , `` I hope , Admiral , I hope there is nothing in the style of Captain Wentworth 's letter to make you and Mrs. Croft particularly uneasy . 
Anne looked down to hide her smile . 
No , you would not guess , from his way of writing , that he had ever thought of this Miss -LRB- what 's her name ? -RRB- 
Anne did not receive the perfect conviction which the Admiral meant to convey , but it would have been useless to press the enquiry farther . 
She , therefore , satisfied herself with common-place remarks , or quiet attention , and the Admiral had it all his own way . 
Do not you think , Miss Elliot , we had better try to get him to Bath ? '' 
While Admiral Croft was taking this walk with Anne , and expressing his wish of getting Captain Wentworth to Bath , Captain Wentworth was already on his way thither . 
Before Mrs. Croft had written , he was arrived ; and the very next time Anne walked out , she saw him . 
It began to rain , not much , but enough to make shelter desirable for women , and quite enough to make it very desirable for Miss Elliot to have the advantage of being conveyed home in Lady Dalrymple 's carriage , which was seen waiting at a little distance ; she , Anne , and Mrs. Clay , therefore , turned into Molland 's , while Mr. Elliot stepped to Lady Dalrymple , to request her assistance . 
There could be no doubt as to Miss Elliot . 
Whoever suffered inconvenience , she must suffer none , but it occupied a little time to settle the point of civility between the other two . 
The rain was a mere trifle , and Anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with Mr. Elliot . 
much thicker than Miss Anne 's ; and , in short , her civility rendered her quite as anxious to be left to walk with Mr. Elliot , as Anne could be , and it was discussed between them with a generosity so polite and so determined , that the others were obliged to settle it for them ; Miss Elliot maintaining that Mrs. Clay had a little cold already , and Mr. Elliot deciding on appeal , that his cousin Anne 's boots were rather the thickest . 
It was fixed accordingly that Mrs. Clay should be of the party in the carriage ; and they had just reached this point when Anne , as she sat near the window , descried , most decidedly and distinctly , Captain Wentworth walking down the street . 
Her start was perceptible only to herself ; but she instantly felt that she was the greatest simpleton in the world , the most unaccountable and absurd ! 
For a few minutes she saw nothing before her . 
She was lost ; and when she had scolded back her senses , she found the others still waiting for the carriage , and Mr. Elliot -LRB- always obliging -RRB- just setting off for Union-street on a commission of Mrs. Clay 's . 
Mutual enquiries on common subjects passed ; neither of them , probably , much the wiser for what they heard , and Anne continuing fully sensible of his being less at ease than formerly . 
It did not surprise , but it grieved Anne to observe that Elizabeth would not know him . 
Lady Dalrymple 's carriage , for which Miss Elliot was growing very impatient , now drew up ; the servant came in to announce it . 
It was beginning to rain again , and altogether there was a delay , and a bustle , and a talking , which must make all the little crowd in the shop understand that Lady Dalrymple was calling to convey Miss Elliot . 
At last Miss Elliot and her friend , unattended but by the servant , -LRB- for there was no cousin returned -RRB- were walking off ; and Captain Wentworth , watching them , turned again to Anne , and by manner , rather than words , was offering his services to her . 
`` I am much obliged to you , '' was her answer , `` but I am not going with them . 
She was very much obliged to him , but declined it all , repeating her conviction , that the rain would come to nothing at present , and adding , `` I am only waiting for Mr. Elliot . 
She had hardly spoken the words , when Mr. Elliot walked in . 
There was no difference between him and the man who had stood on the steps at Lyme , admiring Anne as she passed , except in the air and look and manner of the privileged relation and friend . 
He came in with eagerness , appeared to see and think only of her , apologised for his stay , was grieved to have kept her waiting , and anxious to get her away without further loss of time , and before the rain increased ; and in another moment they walked off together , her arm under his , a gentle and embarrassed glance , and a `` good morning to you , '' being all that she had time for , as she passed away . 
`` She is pretty , I think ; Anne Elliot ; very pretty , when one comes to look at her . 
It is not the fashion to say so , but I confess I admire her more than her sister . '' 
But the men are all , wild after Miss Elliot . 
Anne is too delicate for them . '' 
Anne would have been particularly obliged to her cousin , if he would have walked by her side all the way to Camden-place , without saying a word . 
She had never found it so difficult to listen to him , though nothing could exceed his solicitude and care , and though his subjects were principally such as were wont to be always interesting -- praise , warm , just , and discriminating , of Lady Russell , and insinuations highly rational against Mrs. Clay . 
The following morning Anne was out with her friend , and for the first hour , in an incessant and fearful sort of watch for him in vain ; but at last , in returning down Pulteney-street , she distinguished him on the right hand pavement at such a distance as to have him in view the greater part of the street . 
She looked instinctively at Lady Russell ; but not from any mad idea of her recognising him so soon as she did herself . 
-- `` Now , how would she speak of him ? '' 
Anne sighed and blushed and smiled , in pity and disdain , either at her friend or herself . 
-- The part which provoked her most , was that in all this waste of foresight and caution , she should have lost the right moment for seeing whether he saw them . 
-- The theatre or the rooms , where he was most likely to be , were not fashionable enough for the Elliots , whose evening amusements were solely in the elegant stupidity of private parties , in which they were getting more and more engaged ; and Anne , wearied of such a state of stagnation , sick of knowing nothing , and fancying herself stronger because her strength was not tried , was quite impatient for the concert evening . 
Anne named them all . 
Anne was startled and confused , but after standing in a moment 's suspense , was obliged , and not sorry to be obliged , to hurry away . 
Anne was the nearest to him , and making yet a little advance , she instantly spoke . 
He was preparing only to bow and pass on , but her gentle `` How do you do ? '' 
brought him out of the straight line to stand near her , and make enquiries in return , in spite of the formidable father and sister in the back ground . 
Their being in the back ground was a support to Anne ; she knew nothing of their looks , and felt equal to every thing which she believed right to be done . 
While they were speaking , a whispering between her father and Elizabeth caught her ear . 
She could not distinguish , but she must guess the subject ; and on Captain Wentworth 's making a distant bow , she comprehended that her father had judged so well as to give him that simple acknowledgment of acquaintance , and she was just in time by a side glance to see a slight curtsey from Elizabeth herself . 
A sudden recollection seemed to occur , and to give him some taste of that emotion which was reddening Anne 's cheeks and fixing her eyes on the ground . 
Either from the consciousness , however , that his friend had recovered , or from some other consciousness , he went no farther ; and Anne , who , in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had been uttered , and in spite of all the various noises of the room , the almost ceaseless slam of the door , and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through , had distinguished every word , was struck , gratified , confused , and beginning to breathe very quick , and feel an hundred things in a moment . 
It was impossible for her to enter on such a subject ; and yet , after a pause , feeling the necessity of speaking , and having not the smallest wish for a total change , she only deviated so far as to say , `` You were a good while at Lyme , I think ? '' 
`` I should very much like to see Lyme again , '' said Anne . 
`` The last few hours were certainly very painful , '' replied Anne : `` but when pain is over , the remembrance of it often becomes a pleasure . 
As she ceased , the entrance door opened again , and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting . 
`` Lady Dalrymple , Lady Dalrymple , '' was the rejoicing sound ; and with all the eagerness compatible with anxious elegance , Sir Walter and his two ladies stepped forward to meet her . 
The others joined them , and it was a group in which Anne found herself also necessarily included . 
She was divided from Captain Wentworth . 
She had learnt , in the last ten minutes , more of his feelings towards Louisa , more of all his feelings , than she dared to think of ! 
Very , very happy were both Elizabeth and Anne Elliot as they walked in . 
Elizabeth , arm in arm with Miss Carteret , and looking on the broad back of the dowager Viscountess Dalrymple before her , had nothing to wish for which did not seem within her reach ; and Anne -- but it would be an insult to the nature of Anne 's felicity , to draw any comparison between it and her sister 's ; the origin of one all selfish vanity , of the other all generous attachment . 
Anne saw nothing , thought nothing of the brilliancy of the room . 
Her happiness was from within . 
Her eyes were bright , and her cheeks glowed , -- but she knew nothing about it . 
She was thinking only of the last half hour , and as they passed to their seats , her mind took a hasty range over it . 
His choice of subjects , his expressions , and still more his manner and look , had been such as she could see in only one light . 
His opinion of Louisa Musgrove 's inferiority , an opinion which he had seemed solicitous to give , his wonder at Captain Benwick , his feelings as to a first , strong attachment , -- sentences begun which he could not finish -- his half averted eyes , and more than half expressive glance , -- all , all declared that he had a heart returning to her at least ; that anger , resentment , avoidance , were no more ; and that they were succeeded , not merely by friendship and regard , but by the tenderness of the past ; yes , some share of the tenderness of the past . 
-- He must love her . 
These were thoughts , with their attendant visions , which occupied and flurried her too much to leave her any power of observation ; and she passed along the room without having a glimpse of him , without even trying to discern him . 
When their places were determined on , and they were all properly arranged , she looked round to see if he should happen to be in the same part of the room , but he was not , her eye could not reach him ; and the concert being just opening , she must consent for a time to be happy in an humbler way . 
The party was divided , and disposed of on two contiguous benches : Anne was among those on the foremost , and Mr. Elliot had manoeuvred so well , with the assistance of his friend Colonel Wallis , as to have a seat by her . 
Miss Elliot , surrounded by her cousins , and the principal object of Colonel Wallis 's gallantry , was quite contented . 
Anne 's mind was in a most favourable state for the entertainment of the evening : it was just occupation enough : she had feelings for the tender , spirits for the gay , attention for the scientific , and patience for the wearisome ; and had never liked a concert better , at least during the first act . 
Towards the close of it , in the interval succeeding an Italian song , she explained the words of the song to Mr. Elliot -- They had a concert bill between them . 
`` This , '' said she , `` is nearly the sense , or rather the meaning of the words , for certainly the sense of an Italian love-song must not be talked of , -- but it is as nearly the meaning as I can give ; for I do not pretend to understand the language . 
`` I have not had the pleasure of visiting in Camden-place so long '' , replied he , `` without knowing something of Miss Anne Elliot ; and I do regard her as one who is too modest , for the world in general to be aware of half her accomplishments , and too highly accomplished for modesty to be natural in any other woman . '' 
To have been described long ago to a recent acquaintance , by nameless people , is irresistible ; and Anne was all curiosity . 
She wondered , and questioned him eagerly -- but in vain . 
He had many years ago received such a description of Miss Anne Elliot , as had inspired him with the highest idea of her merit , and excited the warmest curiosity to know her . '' 
Anne could think of no one so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago , as the Mr. Wentworth , of Monkford , Captain Wentworth 's brother . 
He might have been in Mr. Elliot 's company , but she had not courage to ask the question . 
`` The name of Anne Elliot , '' said he , `` has long had an interesting sound to me . 
Such she believed were his words ; but scarcely had she received their sound , than her attention was caught by other sounds immediately behind her , which rendered every thing else trivial . 
Her father and Lady Dalrymple were speaking . 
Before Sir Walter had reached this point , Anne 's eyes had caught the right direction , and distinguished Captain Wentworth , standing among a cluster of men at a little distance . 
As her eyes fell on him , his seemed to be withdrawn from her . 
It seemed as if she had been one moment too late ; and as long as she dared observe , he did not look again : but the performance was re-commencing , and she was forced to seem to restore her attention to the orchestra , and look straight forward . 
When she could give another glance , he had moved away . 
He could not have come nearer to her if he would ; she was so surrounded and shut in : but she would rather have caught his eye . 
Mr. Elliot 's speech too distressed her . 
She had no longer any inclination to talk to him . 
She wished him not so near her . 
Now she hoped for some beneficial change ; and , after a period of nothing-saying amongst the party , some of them did decide on going in quest of tea . 
Anne was one of the few who did not choose to move . 
She remained in her seat , and so did Lady Russell ; but she had the pleasure of getting rid of Mr. Elliot ; and she did not mean , whatever she might feel on Lady Russell 's account , to shrink from conversation with Captain Wentworth , if he gave her the opportunity . 
She was persuaded by Lady Russell 's countenance that she had seen him . 
Anne sometimes fancied she discerned him at a distance , but he never came . 
To Anne , it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation . 
She could not quit that room in peace without seeing Captain Wentworth once more , without the interchange of one friendly look . 
In re-settling themselves , there were now many changes , the result of which was favourable for her . 
Colonel Wallis declined sitting down again , and Mr. Elliot was invited by Elizabeth and Miss Carteret , in a manner not to be refused , to sit between them ; and by some other removals , and a little scheming of her own , Anne was enabled to place herself much nearer the end of the bench than she had been before , much more within reach of a passer-by . 
She could not do so , without comparing herself with Miss Larolles , the inimitable Miss Larolles , -- but still she did it , and not with much happier effect ; though by what seemed prosperity in the shape of an early abdication in her next neighbours , she found herself at the very end of the bench before the concert closed . 
Such was her situation , with a vacant space at hand , when Captain Wentworth was again in sight . 
She saw him not far off . 
He saw her too ; yet he looked grave , and seemed irresolute , and only by very slow degrees came at last near enough to speak to her . 
She felt that something must be the matter . 
She thought of her father -- of Lady Russell . 
Anne replied , and spoke in defence of the performance so well , and yet in allowance for his feelings , so pleasantly , that his countenance improved , and he replied again with almost a smile . 
They talked for a few minutes more ; the improvement held ; he even looked down towards the bench , as if he saw a place on it well worth occupying ; when , at that moment , a touch on her shoulder obliged Anne to turn round . 
He begged her pardon , but she must be applied to , to explain Italian again . 
Anne could not refuse ; but never had she sacrificed to politeness with a more suffering spirit . 
A few minutes , though as few as possible , were inevitably consumed ; and when her own mistress again , when able to turn and look as she had done before , she found herself accosted by Captain Wentworth , in a reserved yet hurried sort of farewell . 
said Anne , suddenly struck by an idea which made her yet more anxious to be encouraging . 
Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection ! 
Could she have believed it a week ago -- three hours ago ! 
How , in all the peculiar disadvantages of their respective situations , would he ever learn her real sentiments ? 
Anne recollected with pleasure the next morning her promise of going to Mrs. Smith ; meaning that it should engage her from home at the time when Mr. Elliot would be most likely to call ; for to avoid Mr. Elliot was almost a first object . 
She felt a great deal of good will towards him . 
In spite of the mischief of his attentions , she owed him gratitude and regard , perhaps compassion . 
She could not help thinking much of the extraordinary circumstances attending their acquaintance ; of the right which he seemed to have to interest her , by every thing in situation , by his own sentiments , by his early prepossession . 
How she might have felt , had there been no Captain Wentworth in the case , was not worth enquiry ; for there was a Captain Wentworth : and be the conclusion of the present suspense good or bad , her affection would be his for ever . 
Their union , she believed , could not divide her more from other men , than their final separation . 
Prettier musings of high-wrought love and eternal constancy , could never have passed along the streets of Bath , than Anne was sporting with from Camdenplace to Westgate-buildings . 
She was sure of a pleasant reception ; and her friend seemed this morning particularly obliged to her for coming , seemed hardly to have expected her , though it had been an appointment . 
An account of the concert was immediately claimed ; and Anne 's recollections of the concert were quite happy enough to animate her features , and make her rejoice to talk of it . 
All that she could tell , she told most gladly ; but the all was little for one who had been there , and unsatisfactory for such an enquirer as Mrs. Smith , who had already heard , through the short cut of a laundress and a waiter , rather more of the general success and produce of the evening than Anne could relate ; and who now asked in vain for several particulars of the company . 
`` But I ought to have looked about me more , '' said Anne , conscious while she spoke , that there had in fact been no want of looking about ; that the object only had been deficient . 
Anne half smiled and said , `` Do you see that in my eye ? '' 
A blush overspread Anne 's cheeks . 
She could say nothing . 
Anne heard nothing of this . 
She was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend 's penetration , unable to imagine how any report of Captain Wentworth could have reached her . 
repeated Anne , looking up surprised . 
A moment 's reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under . 
She caught it instantaneously ; and , recovering courage with the feeling of safety , soon added , more composedly , `` are you acquainted with Mr. Elliot ? '' 
He can be of essential service to me ; and if you would have the goodness , my dear Miss Elliot , to make it an object to yourself , of course it is done . '' 
`` I should be extremely happy -- I hope you can not doubt my willingness to be of even the slightest use to you , '' replied Anne ; `` but I suspect that you are considering me as having a higher claim on Mr. Elliot -- a greater right to influence him , than is really the case . 
But now , my dear Miss Elliot , as an old friend , do give me a hint as to when I may speak . 
`` No , '' replied Anne , `` nor next week , nor next , nor next . 
Well , my dear Miss Elliot , I hope and trust you will be very happy . 
`` No , '' said Anne , `` I can readily believe all that of my cousin . 
I assure you Mr. Elliot had not the share which you have been supposing , in whatever pleasure the concert of last night might afford : -- not Mr. Elliot ; it is not Mr. Elliot that -- '' She stopped , regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much ; but less would hardly have been sufficient . 
As it was , she instantly submitted , and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond ; and Anne , eager to escape farther notice , was impatient to know why Mrs. Smith should have fancied she was to marry Mr. Elliot , where she could have received the idea , or from whom she could have heard it . 
repeated Anne , laughing . 
`` But , '' continued Anne , presently , `` though there is no truth in my having this claim on Mr. Elliot , I should be extremely happy to be of use to you , in any way that I could . 
`` I have not seen Mr. Elliot these three years , '' was Mrs. Smith 's answer , given so gravely that it was impossible to pursue the subject farther ; and Anne felt that she had gained nothing but an increase of curiosity . 
At last , `` I beg your pardon , my dear Miss Elliot , '' she cried , in her natural tone of cordiality , `` I beg your pardon for the short answers I have been giving you , but I have been uncertain what I ought to do . 
Anne 's astonished air , and exclamation of wonder , made her pause , and in a calmer manner she added , `` My expressions startle you . 
`` This must have been about that very period of Mr. Elliot 's life , '' said Anne , `` which has always excited my particular curiosity . 
`` Nay , '' said Anne , `` I have no particular enquiry to make about her . 
He described one Miss Elliot , and I thought very affectionately of the other . '' 
`` Perhaps , '' cried Anne , struck by a sudden idea , `` you sometimes spoke of me to Mr. Elliot ? '' 
I used to boast of my own Anne Elliot , and vouch for your being a very different creature from -- '' She checked herself just in time . 
`` This accounts for something which Mr. Elliot said last night , '' cried Anne . 
`` Indeed , my dear Mrs. Smith , I want none , '' cried Anne . 
Anne , seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it , did as she was desired . 
The box was brought and placed before her , and Mrs. Smith , sighing over it as she unlocked it , said , `` This is full of papers belonging to him , to my husband , a small portion only of what I had to look over when I lost him . 
Such a letter could not be read without putting Anne in a glow ; and Mrs. Smith , observing the high colour in her face , said , `` The language , I know , is highly disrespectful . 
Anne could not immediately get over the shock and mortification of finding such words applied to her father . 
She was obliged to recollect that her seeing the letter was a violation of the laws of honour , that no one ought to be judged or to be known by such testimonies , that no private correspondence could bear the eye of others , before she could recover calmness enough to return the letter which she had been meditating over , and say , `` Thank you . 
He saw you then at Lyme , and liked you so well as to be exceedingly pleased to meet with you again in Camden-place , as Miss Anne Elliot , and from that moment , I have no doubt , had a double motive in his visits there . 
My account states , that your sister 's friend , the lady now staying with you , whom I have heard you mention , came to Bath with Miss Elliot and Sir Walter as long ago as September , -LRB- in short when they first came themselves -RRB- and has been staying there ever since ; that she is a clever , insinuating , handsome woman , poor and plausible , and altogether such in situation and manner , as to give a general idea among Sir Walter 's acquaintance , of her meaning to be Lady Elliot , and as general a surprise that Miss Elliot should be apparently blind to the danger . '' 
Here Mrs. Smith paused a moment ; but Anne had not a word to say , and she continued , `` This was the light in which it appeared to those who knew the family , long before your return to it ; and Colonel Wallis had his eye upon your father enough to be sensible of it , though he did not then visit in Camden-place ; but his regard for Mr. Elliot gave him an interest in watching all that was going on there , and when Mr. Elliot came to Bath for a day or two , as he happened to do a little before Christmas , Colonel Wallis made him acquainted with the appearance of things , and the reports beginning to prevail . 
`` Yes , '' said Anne , `` you tell me nothing which does not accord with what I have known , or could imagine . 
-- `` Why , to be sure , ma'am , '' said she , `` it would not prevent his marrying any body else . '' 
`` I am very glad to know all this , '' said Anne after a little thoughtfulness . 
Mrs. Smith had been carried away from her first direction , and Anne had forgotten , in the interest of her own family concerns , how much had been originally implied against him ; but her attention was now called to the explanation of those first hints , and she listened to a recital which , if it did not perfectly justify the unqualified bitterness of Mrs. Smith , proved him to have been very unfeeling in his conduct towards her , very deficient both in justice and compassion . 
Mrs. Smith did not want to take blame to herself , and was most tender of throwing any on her husband ; but Anne could collect that their income had never been equal to their style of living , and that from the first , there had been a great deal of general and joint extravagance . 
Anne was shewn some letters of his on the occasion , answers to urgent applications from Mrs. Smith , which all breathed the same stern resolution of not engaging in a fruitless trouble , and , under a cold civility , the same hard-hearted indifference to any of the evils it might bring on her . 
It was a dreadful picture of ingratitude and inhumanity ; and Anne felt at some moments , that no flagrant open crime could have been worse . 
She had a great deal to listen to ; all the particulars of past sad scenes , all the minutiæ of distress upon distress , which in former conversations had been merely hinted at , were dwelt on now with a natural indulgence . 
Anne could perfectly comprehend the exquisite relief , and was only the more inclined to wonder at the composure of her friend 's usual state of mind . 
There was one circumstance in the history of her grievances of particular irritation . 
She had good reason to believe that some property of her husband in the West Indies , which had been for many years under a sort of sequestration for the payment of its own incumbrances , might be recoverable by proper measures ; and this property , though not large , would be enough to make her comparatively rich . 
Mr. Elliot would do nothing , and she could do nothing herself , equally disabled from personal exertion by her state of bodily weakness , and from employing others by her want of money . 
She had no natural connexions to assist her even with their counsel , and she could not afford to purchase the assistance of the law . 
To feel that she ought to be in better circumstances , that a little trouble in the right place might do it , and to fear that delay might be even weakening her claims , was hard to bear ! 
It was on this point that she had hoped to engage Anne 's good offices with Mr. Elliot . 
She had previously , in the anticipation of their marriage , been very apprehensive of losing her friend by it ; but on being assured that he could have made no attempt of that nature , since he did not even know her to be in Bath , it immediately occurred , that something might be done in her favour by the influence of the woman he loved , and she had been hastily preparing to interest Anne 's feelings , as far as the observances due to Mr. Elliot 's character would allow , when Anne 's refutation of the supposed engagement changed the face of every thing , and while it took from her the newformed hope of succeeding in the object of her first anxiety , left her at least the comfort of telling the whole story her own way . 
After listening to this full description of Mr. Elliot , Anne could not but express some surprise at Mrs. Smith 's having spoken of him so favourably in the beginning of their conversation . 
Anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him , as made her shudder at the idea of the misery which must have followed . 
It was just possible that she might have been persuaded by Lady Russell ! 
It was very desirable that Lady Russell should be no longer deceived ; and one of the concluding arrangements of this important conference , which carried them through the greater part of the morning , was , that Anne had full liberty to communicate to her friend every thing relative to Mrs. Smith , in which his conduct was involved . 
Anne went home to think over all that she had heard . 
In one point , her feelings were relieved by this knowledge of Mr. Elliot . 
In every other respect , in looking around her , or penetrating forward , she saw more to distrust and to apprehend . 
She was concerned for the disappointment and pain Lady Russell would be feeling , for the mortifications which must be hanging over her father and sister , and had all the distress of foreseeing many evils , without knowing how to avert any one of them . 
I was really in pain for him ; for your hard-hearted sister , Miss Anne , seems bent on cruelty . '' 
cried Mrs. Clay , not daring , however , to turn her eyes towards Anne . 
Dear Miss Elliot , may I not say father and son ? '' 
`` My dear Miss Elliot ! '' 
Anne admired the good acting of the friend , in being able to shew such pleasure as she did , in the expectation , and in the actual arrival of the very person whose presence must really be interfering with her prime object . 
To Anne herself it was most distressing to see Mr. Elliot enter the room ; and quite painful to have him approach and speak to her . 
She had been used before to feel that he could not be always quite sincere , but now she saw insincerity in every thing . 
His attentive deference to her father , contrasted with his former language , was odious ; and when she thought of his cruel conduct towards Mrs. Smith , she could hardly bear the sight of his present smiles and mildness , or the sound of his artificial good sentiments . 
Mrs. Clay 's selfishness was not so complicate nor so revolting as his ; and Anne would have compounded for the marriage at once , with all its evils , to be clear of Mr. Elliot 's subtleties , in endeavouring to prevent it . 
On Friday morning she meant to go very early to Lady Russell , and accomplish the necessary communication ; and she would have gone directly after breakfast but that Mrs. Clay was also going out on some obliging purpose of saving her sister trouble , which determined her to wait till she might be safe from such a companion . 
Anne , remembering the preconcerted visits , at all hours , of Mr. Elliot , would have expected him , but for his known engagement seven miles off . 
Surprise was the strongest emotion raised by their appearance ; but Anne was really glad to see them ; and the others were not so sorry but that they could put on a decent air of welcome ; and as soon as it became clear that these , their nearest relations , were not arrived with any views of accommodation in that house , Sir Walter and Elizabeth were able to rise in cordiality , and do the honours of it very well . 
So much was pretty soon understood ; but till Sir Walter and Elizabeth were walking Mary into the other drawing-room , and regaling themselves with her admiration , Anne could not draw upon Charles 's brain for a regular history of their coming , or an explanation of some smiling hints of particular business , which had been ostentatiously dropped by Mary , as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of . 
Anne 's only surprise was , that affairs should be in forwardness enough for Henrietta 's wedding-clothes to be talked of : she had imagined such difficulties of fortune to exist there as must prevent the marriage from being near at hand ; but she learned from Charles that , very recently , -LRB- since Mary 's last letter to herself -RRB- Charles Hayter had been applied to by a friend to hold a living for a youth who could not possibly claim it under many years ; and that , on the strength of this present income , with almost a certainty of something more permanent long before the term in question , the two families had consented to the young people 's wishes , and that their marriage was likely to take place in a few months , quite as soon as Louisa 's . 
`` I am extremely glad , indeed , '' cried Anne , `` particularly glad that this should happen : and that of two sisters , who both deserve equally well , and who have always been such good friends , the pleasant prospects of one should not be dimming those of the other -- that they should be so equal in their prosperity and comfort . 
`` Such excellent parents as Mr. and Mrs. Musgrove , '' exclaimed Anne , `` should be happy in their children 's marriages . 
Anne could not help laughing . 
`` That can not be much to your taste , I know , '' said she ; `` but I do believe him to be an excellent young man . '' 
Here they were interrupted by the absolute necessity of Charles 's following the others to admire mirrors and china ; but Anne had heard enough to understand the present state of Uppercross , and rejoice in its happiness : and though she sighed as she rejoiced , her sigh had none of the ill-will of envy in it . 
She would certainly have risen to their blessings if she could , but she did not want to lessen theirs . 
Miss Elliot was to have the honour of calling on Mrs. Musgrove in the course of the morning , and Anne walked off with Charles and Mary , to go and see her and Henrietta directly . 
They all three called in Rivers-street for a couple of minutes ; but Anne convinced herself that a day 's delay of the intended communication could be of no consequence , and hastened forward to the White Hart , to see again the friends and companions of the last autumn , with an eagerness of good will which many associations contributed to form . 
They found Mrs. Musgrove and her daughter within , and by themselves , and Anne had the kindest welcome from each . 
It was a heartiness , and a warmth , and a sincerity which Anne delighted in the more , from the sad want of such blessing at home . 
She was intreated to give them as much of her time as possible , invited for every day and all day long , or rather claimed as a part of the family ; and in return , she naturally fell into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance , and on Charles 's leaving them together , was listening to Mrs. Musgrove 's history of Louisa , and to Henrietta 's of herself , giving opinions on business , and recommendations to shops ; with intervals of every help which Mary required , from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts , from finding her keys , and assorting her trinkets , to trying to convince her that she was not ill used by any body ; which Mary , well amused as she generally was in her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the pump-room , could not but have her moments of imagining . 
One five minutes brought a note , the next a parcel , and Anne had not been there half an hour , when their dining-room , spacious as it was , seemed more than half filled : a party of steady old friends were seated round Mrs. Musgrove , and Charles came back with Captains Harville and Wentworth . 
`` Anne , '' cried Mary , still at her window , `` there is Mrs. Clay , I am sure , standing under the colonnade , and a gentleman with her . 
`` No , '' cried Anne quickly , `` it can not be Mr. Elliot , I assure you . 
As she spoke , she felt that Captain Wentworth was looking at her ; the consciousness of which vexed and embarrassed her , and made her regret that she had said so much , simple as it was . 
Mary , resenting that she should be supposed not to know her own cousin , began talking very warmly about the family features , and protesting still more positively that it was Mr. Elliot , calling again upon Anne to come and look herself ; but Anne did not mean to stir , and tried to be cool and unconcerned . 
Her distress returned , however , on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady visitors , as if they believed themselves quite in the secret . 
`` Do come , Anne , '' cried Mary , `` come and look yourself . 
To pacify Mary , and perhaps screen her own embarrassment , Anne did move quietly to the window . 
She was just in time to ascertain that it really was Mr. Elliot -LRB- which she had never believed -RRB- , before he disappeared on one side , as Mrs. Clay walked quickly off on the other ; and checking the surprise which she could not but feel at such an appearance of friendly conference between two persons of totally opposite interests , she calmly said , `` Yes , it is Mr. Elliot certainly . 
Anne will not be sorry to join us , I am sure . 
The careless expression was life to Anne , who saw that Captain Wentworth was all attention , looking and listening with his whole soul ; and that the last words brought his enquiring eyes from Charles to herself . 
It would be a pity to be divided , and we should be losing Miss Anne too , if there is a party at her father 's ; and I am sure neither Henrietta nor I should care at all for the play , if Miss Anne could not be with us . '' 
Anne felt truly obliged to her for such kindness ; and quite as much so , moreover , for the opportunity it gave her of decidedly saying -- `` If it depended only on my inclination , ma'am , the party at home -LRB- excepting on Mary 's account -RRB- would not be the smallest impediment . 
She had spoken it ; but she trembled when it was done , conscious that her words were listened to , and daring not even to try to observe their effect . 
Captain Wentworth left his seat , and walked to the fire-place ; probably for the sake of walking away from it soon after-wards , and taking a station , with less barefaced design , by Anne . 
`` I am not yet so much changed , '' cried Anne , and stopped , fearing she hardly knew what misconstruction . 
Whether he would have proceeded farther was left to Anne 's imagination to ponder over in a calmer hour ; for while still hearing the sounds he had uttered , she was startled to other subjects by Henrietta , eager to make use of the present leisure for getting out , and calling on her companions to lose no time , lest somebody else should come in . 
Anne talked of being perfectly ready , and tried to look it ; but she felt that could Henrietta have known the regret and reluctance of her heart in quitting that chair , in preparing to quit the room , she would have found , in all her own sensations for her cousin , in the very security of his affection , wherewith to pity her . 
Alarming sounds were heard ; other visitors approached , and the door was thrown open for Sir Walter and Miss Elliot , whose entrance seemed to give a general chill . 
Anne felt an instant oppression , and , wherever she looked , saw symptoms of the same . 
The comfort , the freedom , the gaiety of the room was over , hushed into cold composure , determined silence , or insipid talk , to meet the heartless elegance of her father and sister . 
Her jealous eye was satisfied in one particular . 
It was all said very gracefully , and the cards with which she had provided herself , the `` Miss Elliot at home , '' were laid on the table , with a courteous , comprehensive smile to all ; and one smile and one card more decidedly for Captain Wentworth . 
The interruption had been short , though severe ; and ease and animation returned to most of those they left , as the door shut them out , but not to Anne . 
She could think only of the invitation she had with such astonishment witnessed ; and of the manner in which it had been received , a manner of doubtful meaning , of surprise rather than gratification , of polite acknowledgment rather than acceptance . 
She knew him ; she saw disdain in his eye , and could not venture to believe that he had determined to accept such an offering , as atonement for all the insolence of the past . 
Her spirits sank . 
Anne caught his eye , saw his cheeks glow , and his mouth form itself into a momentary expression of contempt , and turned away , that she might neither see nor hear more to vex her . 
The gentlemen had their own pursuits , the ladies proceeded on their own business , and they met no more while Anne belonged to them . 
She was earnestly begged to return and dine , and give them all the rest of the day ; but her spirits had been so long exerted , that at present she felt unequal to move , and fit only for home , where she might be sure of being as silent as she chose . 
Promising to be with them the whole of the following morning , therefore , she closed the fatigues of the present , by a toilsome walk to Camden-place , there to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy arrangements of Elizabeth and Mrs. Clay for the morrow 's party , the frequent enumeration of the persons invited , and the continually improving detail of all the embellishments which were to make it the most completely elegant of its kind in Bath , while harassing herself in secret with the never-ending question , of whether Captain Wentworth would come or not ? 
It was transient , cleared a way in an instant , but Anne could imagine she read there the conciousness of having , by some complication of mutual triok , or some overbearing authority of his , been obliged to attend -LRB- perhaps for half an hour -RRB- to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter . 
She exclaimed , however , with a very tolerable imitation of nature , `` Oh dear ! 
Only think , Miss Elliot , to my great surprise I met with Mr. Elliot in Bath-street ! 
One day only had passed since Anne 's conversation with Mrs. Smith ; but a keener interest had succeeded , and she was now so little touched by Mr. Elliot 's conduct , except by its effects in one quarter , that it became a matter of course the next morning , still to defer her explanatory visit in Rivers-street . 
Anne felt that she did not belong to the conversation , and yet , as Captain Harville seemed thoughtful and not disposed to talk , she could not avoid hearing many undesirable particulars , such as `` how Mr. Musgrove and my brother Hayter had met again and again to talk it over ; what my brother Hayter had said one day , and what Mr. Musgrove had proposed the next , and what had occurred to my sister Hayter , and what the young people had wished , and what I said at first I never could consent to , but was afterwards persuaded to think might do very well , '' and a great deal in the same style of open-hearted communication -- Minutiæ which , even with every advantage of taste and delicacy which good Mrs. Musgrove could not give , could be properly interesting only to the principals . 
Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self-occupied to hear . 
Anne found an unexpected interest here . 
The two ladies continued to talk , to re-urge the same admitted truths , and enforce them with such examples of the ill effect of a contrary practice , as had fallen within their observation , but Anne heard nothing distinctly ; it was only a buzz of words in her ear , her mind was in confusion . 
Captain Harville , who had in truth been hearing none of it , now left his seat , and moved to a window ; and Anne seeming to watch him , though it was from thorough absence of mind , became gradually sensible that he was inviting her to join him where he stood . 
He looked at her with a smile , and a little motion of the head , which expressed , `` Come to me , I have something to say ; '' and the unaffected , easy kindness of manner which denoted the feelings of an older acquaintance than he really was , strongly enforced the invitation . 
She roused herself and went to him . 
As she joined him , Captain Harville 's countenance reassumed the serious , thoughtful expression which seemed its natural character . 
Miss Elliot , do you remember our walking together at Lyme , and grieving for him ? 
`` No , '' replied Anne , in a low feeling voice . 
`` True , '' said Anne , `` very true ; I did not recollect ; but what shall we say now , Captain Harville ? 
`` Your feelings may be the strongest , '' replied Anne , `` but the same spirit of analogy will authorise me to assert that ours are the most tender . 
It was nothing more than that his pen had fallen down , but Anne was startled at finding him nearer than she had supposed , and half inclined to suspect that the pen had only fallen , because he had been occupied by them , striving to catch sounds , which yet she did not think he could have caught . 
-- I am in very good anchorage here , '' -LRB- smiling at Anne -RRB- `` well supplied , and want for nothing . 
-- Well , Miss Elliot , '' -LRB- lowering his voice -RRB- `` as I was saying we shall never agree I suppose upon this point . 
cried Anne eagerly , `` I hope I do justice to all that is felt by you , and by those who resemble you . 
She could not immediately have uttered another sentence ; her heart was too full , her breath too much oppressed . 
-- To-night we may have the pleasure of all meeting again , at your party , '' -LRB- turning to Anne . -RRB- 
Anne knew not how to understand it . 
She had the kindest . 
He begged their pardon , but he had forgotten his gloves , and instantly crossing the room to the writing table , and standing with his back towards Mrs. Musgrove , he drew out a letter from under the scattered paper , placed it before Anne with eyes of glowing entreaty fixed on her for a moment , and hastily collecting his gloves , was again out of the room , almost before Mrs. Musgrove was aware of his being in it -- the work of an instant ! 
The revolution which one instant had made in Anne , was almost beyond expression . 
While supposed to be writing only to Captain Benwick , he had been also addressing her ! 
On the contents of that letter depended all which this world could do for her ! 
The chair was earnestly protested against ; and Mrs. Musgrove , who thought only of one sort of illness , having assured herself , with some anxiety , that there had been no fall in the case ; that Anne had not , at any time lately , slipped down , and got a blow on her head ; that she was perfectly convinced of having had no fall , could part with her cheerfully , and depend on finding her better at night . 
Anxious to omit no possible precaution , Anne struggled , and said , `` I am afraid , ma'am , that it is not perfectly understood . 
Charles , if you see Captain Harville any where , remember to give Miss Anne 's message . 
Anne could do no more ; but her heart prophesied some mischance , to damp the perfection of her felicity . 
Even if he did not come to Camden-place himself , it would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville . 
Anne could command herself enough to receive that look , and not repulsively . 
He walked by her side . 
Because if you are , I shall have no scruple in asking you to take my place , and give Anne your arm to her father 's door . 
She is rather done for this morning , and must not go-so far without help . 
Anne smiled , and let it pass . 
It is something for a woman to be assured , in her eight-and-twentieth year , that she has not lost one charm of earlier youth : but the value of such homage was inexpressibly increased to Anne , by comparing it with former words , and feeling it to be the result , not the cause of a revival of his warm attachment . 
`` You should have distinguished , '' replied Anne . 
`` I should have thought , '' said Anne , `` that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this . '' 
At last Anne was at home again , and happier than any one in that house could have conceived . 
All the surprise and suspense , and every other painful part of the morning dissipated by this conversation , she re-entered the house so happy as to be obliged to find an alloy in some momentary apprehensions of its being impossible to last . 
An interval of meditation , serious and grateful , was the best corrective of every thing dangerous in such high-wrought felicity ; and she went to her room , and grew steadfast and fearless in the thankfulness of her enjoyment . 
It was but a card-party , it was but a mixture of those who had never met before , and those who met too often -- a commonplace business , too numerous for intimacy , too small for variety ; but Anne had never found an evening shorter . 
Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness , and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for , she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her . 
Mr. Elliot was there ; she avoided , but she could pity him . 
The Wallises ; she had amusement in understanding them . 
This may be bad morality to conclude with , but I believe it to be truth ; and if such parties succeed , how should a Captain Wentworth and an Anne Elliot , with the advantage of maturity of mind , consciousness of right , and one independent fortune between them , fail of bearing down every opposition ? 
Sir Walter indeed , though he had no affection for Anne , and no vanity flattered , to make him really happy on the occasion , was very far from thinking it a bad match for her . 
On the contrary , when he saw more of Captain Wentworth , saw him repeatedly by daylight and eyed him well , he was very much struck by his personal claims , and felt that his superiority of appearance might be not unfairly balanced against her superiority of rank ; and all this , assisted by his well-sounding name , enabled Sir Walter at last to prepare his pen with a very good grace for the insertion of the marriage in the volume of honour . 
Anne knew that Lady Russell must be suffering some pain in understanding and relinquishing Mr. Elliot , and be making some struggles to become truly acquainted with , and do justice to Captain Wentworth . 
But she was a very good woman , and if her second object was to be sensible and well-judging , her first was to see Anne happy . 
She loved Anne better than she loved her own abilities ; and when the awkwardness of the beginning was over , found little hardship in attaching herself as a mother to the man who was securing the happiness of her other child . 
It was creditable to have a sister married , and she might flatter herself with having been greatly instrumental to the connexion , by keeping Anne with her in the autumn ; and as her own sister must be better than her husband 's sister , it was very agreeable that Captain Wentworth should be a richer man than either Captain Benwick or Charles Hayter . 
-- She had something to suffer perhaps when they came into contact again , in seeing Anne restored to the rights of seniority , and the mistress of a very pretty landaulette ; but she had a future to look forward to , of powerful consolation . 
Anne had no Uppercrosshall before her , no landed estate , no headship of a family ; and if they could but keep Captain Wentworth from being made a baronet , she would not change situations with Anne . 
It would be well for the eldest sister if she were equally satisfied with her situation , for a change is not very probable there . 
She had soon the mortification of seeing Mr. Elliot withdraw ; and no one of proper condition has since presented himself to raise even the unfounded hopes which sunk with him . 
The news of his cousin Anne 's engagement burst on Mr. Elliot most unexpectedly . 
Anne , satisfied at a very early period of Lady Russell 's meaning to love Captain Wentworth as she ought , had no other alloy to the happiness of her prospects than what arose from the consciousness of having no relations to bestow on him which a man of sense could value . 
There she felt her own inferiority keenly . 
The disproportion in their fortune was nothing ; it did not give her a moment 's regret ; but to have no family to receive and estimate him properly ; nothing of respectability , of harmony , of good-will to offer in return for all the worth and all the prompt welcome which met her in his brothers and sisters , was a source of as lively pain as her mind could well be sensible of , under circumstances of otherwise strong felicity . 
She had but two friends in the world to add to his list , Lady Russell and Mrs. Smith . 
Her recent good offices by Anne had been enough in themselves ; and their marriage , instead of depriving her of one friend , secured her two . 
Her spring of felicity was in the glow of her spirits , as her friend Anne 's was in the warmth of her heart . 
Anne was tenderness itself , and she had the full worth of it in Captain Wentworth 's affection . 
His profession was all that could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less ; the dread of a future war all that could dim her sunshine . 
She gloried in being a sailor 's wife , but she must pay the tax of quick alarm for belonging to that profession which is , if possible , more distinguished in its domestic virtues than in its national importance . 
