THE PRINCE REGENT , THIS WORK IS , BY HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS 'S PERMISSION , MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED , BY HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS 'S DUTIFUL AND OBEDIENT HUMBLE SERVANT , Emma Woodhouse , handsome , clever , and rich , with a comfortable home and happy disposition , seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence ; and had lived nearly twenty-one years in the world with very little to distress or vex her . 
She was the youngest of the two daughters of a most affectionate , indulgent father , and had , in consequence of her sister 's marriage , been mistress of his house from a very early period . 
Her mother had died too long ago for her to have more than an indistinct remembrance of her caresses , and her place had been supplied by an excellent woman as governess , who had fallen little short of a mother in affection . 
Sixteen years had Miss Taylor been in Mr. Woodhouse 's family , less as a governess than a friend , very fond of both daughters , but particularly of Emma . 
Even before Miss Taylor had ceased to hold the nominal office of governess , the mildness of her temper had hardly allowed her to impose any restraint ; and the shadow of authority being now long passed away , they had been living together as friend and friend very mutually attached , and Emma doing just what she liked ; highly esteeming Miss Taylor 's judgment , but directed chiefly by her own . 
The real evils indeed of Emma 's situation were the power of having rather too much her own way , and a disposition to think a little too well of herself ; these were the disadvantages which threatened alloy to her many enjoyments . 
The danger , however , was at present so unperceived , that they did not by any means rank as misfortunes with her . 
It was on the wedding-day of this beloved friend that Emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance . 
The wedding over and the bride-people gone , her father and herself were left to dine together , with no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening . 
Her father composed himself to sleep after dinner , as usual , and she had then only to sit and think of what she had lost . 
The event had every promise of happiness for her friend . 
Mr. Weston was a man of unexceptionable character , easy fortune , suitable age and pleasant manners ; and there was some satisfaction in considering with what self-denying , generous friendship she had always wished and promoted the match ; but it was a black morning 's work for her . 
-- It was true that her friend was going only half a mile from them ; but Emma was aware that great must be the difference between a Mrs. Weston only half a mile from them , and a Miss Taylor in the house ; and with all her advantages , natural and domestic , she was now in great danger of suffering from intellectual solitude . 
It was a melancholy change ; and Emma could not but sigh over it and wish for impossible things , till her father awoke , and made it necessary to be cheerful . 
Emma smiled and chatted as cheerfully as she could , to keep him from such thoughts ; but when tea came , it was impossible for him not to say exactly as he had said at dinner , `` Poor Miss Taylor ! 
Emma spared no exertions to maintain this happier flow of ideas , and hoped , by the help of backgammon , to get her father tolerably through the evening , and be attacked by no regrets but her own . 
I have a great regard for you and Emma ; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence ! 
said Emma playfully . 
Mr. Knightley , in fact , was one of the few people who could see faults in Emma Woodhouse , and the only one who ever told her of them : and though this was not particularly agreeable to Emma herself , she knew it would be so much less so to her father , that she would not have him really suspect such a circumstance as her not being thought perfect by every body . 
`` Emma knows I never flatter her , '' said Mr. Knightley ; `` but I meant no reflection on any body . 
`` Well , '' said Emma , willing to let it pass -- `` you want to hear about the wedding , and I shall be happy to tell you , for we all behaved charmingly . 
`` Dear Emma bears every thing so well , '' said her father . 
`` But , Mr. Knightley , she is really very sorry to lose poor Miss Taylor , and I am sure she will miss her more than she thinks for . '' 
Emma turned away her head , divided between tears and smiles . 
`` It is impossible that Emma should not miss such a companion , '' said Mr. Knightley . 
`` We should not like her so well as we do , sir , if we could suppose it . 
But she knows how much the marriage is to Miss Taylor 's advantage ; she knows how very acceptable it must be at Miss Taylor 's time of life to be settled in a home of her own , and how important to her to be secure of a comfortable provision , and therefore can not allow herself to feel so much pain as pleasure . 
`` And you have forgotten one matter of joy to me , '' said Emma , `` and a very considerable one -- that I made the match myself . 
Mr. Knightley shook his head at her . 
Her father fondly replied , `` Ah ! 
`` Emma never thinks of herself , if she can do good to others ; '' rejoined Mr. Woodhouse , understanding but in part . 
Invite him to dinner , Emma , and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken , but leave him to chuse his own wife . 
She knew that at times she must be missed ; and could not think , without pain , of Emma 's losing a single pleasure , or suffering an hour 's ennui , from the want of her companionableness : but dear Emma was of no feeble character ; she was more equal to her situation than most girls would have been , and had sense and energy and spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations . 
Her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude to Mrs. Weston , and of moments only of regret ; and her satisfaction -- her more than satisfaction -- her cheerful enjoyment was so just and so apparent , that Emma , well as she knew her father , was sometimes taken by surprize at his being still able to pity `` poor Miss Taylor , '' when they left her at Randalls in the centre of every domestic comfort , or saw her go away in the evening attended by her pleasant husband to a carriage of her own . 
But never did she go without Mr. Woodhouse 's giving a gentle sigh , and saying : `` Ah ! 
Not unfrequently , through Emma 's persuasion , he had some of the chosen and the best to dine with him , but evening-parties were what he preferred , and , unless he fancied himself at any time unequal to company , there was scarcely an evening in the week in which Emma could not make up a card-table for him . 
These were the ladies whom Emma found herself very frequently able to collect ; and happy was she , for her father 's sake , in the power ; though , as far as she was herself concerned , it was no remedy for the absence of Mrs. Weston . 
As she sat one morning , looking forward to exactly such a close of the present day , a note was brought from Mrs. Goddard , requesting , in most respectful terms , to be allowed to bring Miss Smith with her ; a most welcome request : for Miss Smith was a girl of seventeen whom Emma knew very well by sight and had long felt an interest in , on account of her beauty . 
She was a very pretty girl , and her beauty happened to be of a sort which Emma particularly admired . 
She was short , plump and fair , with a fine bloom , blue eyes , light hair , regular features , and a look of great sweetness ; and before the end of the evening , Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person , and quite determined to continue the acquaintance . 
She was not struck by any thing remarkably clever in Miss Smith 's conversation , but she found her altogether very engaging -- not inconveniently shy , not unwilling to talk -- and yet so far from pushing , shewing so proper and becoming a deference , seeming so pleasantly grateful for being admitted to Hartfield , and so artlessly impressed by the appearance of every thing in so superior a style to what she had been used to , that she must have good sense and deserve encouragement . 
They were a family of the name of Martin , whom Emma well knew by character , as renting a large farm of Mr. Knightley , and residing in the parish of Donwell -- very creditably she believed -- she knew Mr. Knightley thought highly of them -- but they must be coarse and unpolished , and very unfit to be the intimates of a girl who wanted only a little more knowledge and elegance to be quite perfect . 
Miss Bates , let Emma help you to a little bit of tart -- a very little bit . 
Emma allowed her father to talk -- but supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style ; and on the present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy . 
Quick and decided in her ways , Emma lost no time in inviting , encouraging , and telling her to come very often ; and as their acquaintance increased , so did their satisfaction in each other . 
As a walking companion , Emma had very early foreseen how useful she might find her . 
Emma was obliged to fancy what she liked -- but she could never believe that in the same situation she should not have discovered the truth . 
Emma encouraged her talkativeness -- amused by such a picture of another set of beings , and enjoying the youthful simplicity which could speak with so much exultation of Mrs. Martin 's having `` two parlours , two very good parlours indeed ; one of them quite as large as Mrs. Goddard 's drawing-room ; and of her having an upper maid who had lived five-and-twenty years with her ; and of their having eight cows , two of them Alderneys , and one a little Welch cow , a very pretty little Welch cow , indeed ; and of Mrs. Martin 's saying , as she was so fond of it , it should be called her cow ; and of their having a very handsome summer-house in their garden , where some day next year they were all to drink tea : -- a very handsome summer-house , large enough to hold a dozen people . '' 
thought Emma . 
Emma watched her through the fluctuations of this speech , and saw no alarming symptoms of love . 
The young man had been the first admirer , but she trusted there was no other hold , and that there would be no serious difficulty on Harriet 's side to oppose any friendly arrangement of her own . 
Emma was not sorry to have such an opportunity of survey ; and walking a few yards forward , while they talked together , soon made her quick eye sufficiently acquainted with Mr. Robert Martin . 
His appearance was very neat , and he looked like a sensible young man , but his person had no other advantage ; and when he came to be contrasted with gentlemen , she thought he must lose all the ground he had gained in Harriet 's inclination . 
`` I wonder he did not remember the book '' -- was all Harriet 's answer , and spoken with a degree of grave displeasure which Emma thought might be safely left to itself . 
She , therefore , said no more for sometime . 
Her next beginning was , `` In one respect , perhaps , Mr. Elton 's manners are superior to Mr. Knightley 's or Mr. Weston 's . 
She then repeated some warm personal praise which she had drawn from Mr. Elton , and now did full justice to ; and Harriet blushed and smiled , and said she had always thought Mr. Elton very agreeable . 
Mr. Elton was the very person fixed on by Emma for driving the young farmer out of Harriet 's head . 
He had a comfortable home for her , and Emma imagined a very sufficient income ; for though the vicarage of Highbury was not large , he was known to have some independent property ; and she thought very highly of him as a good-humoured , well-meaning , respectable young man , without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge of the world . 
She had already satisfied herself that he thought Harriet a beautiful girl , which she trusted , with such frequent meetings at Hartfield , was foundation enough on his side ; and on Harriet 's , there could be little doubt that the idea of being preferred by him would have all the usual weight and efficacy . 
`` I do not know what your opinion may be , Mrs. Weston , '' said Mr. Knightley , `` of this great intimacy between Emma and Harriet Smith , but I think it a bad thing . '' 
Emma must do Harriet good : and by supplying her with a new object of interest , Harriet may be said to do Emma good . 
This will certainly be the beginning of one of our quarrels about Emma , Mr. Knightley . '' 
We were speaking of it only yesterday , and agreeing how fortunate it was for Emma , that there should be such a girl in Highbury for her to associate with . 
She is not the superior young woman which Emma 's friend ought to be . 
But on the other hand , as Emma wants to see her better informed , it will be an inducement to her to read more herself . 
She means it , I know . '' 
`` Emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old . 
I have seen a great many lists of her drawing up at various times of books that she meant to read regularly through -- and very good lists they were -- very well chosen , and very neatly arranged -- sometimes alphabetically , and sometimes by some other rule . 
The list she drew up when only fourteen -- I remember thinking it did her judgment so much credit , that I preserved it some time ; and I dare say she may have made out a very good list now . 
But I have done with expecting any course of steady reading from Emma . 
She will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience , and a subjection of the fancy to the understanding . 
`` I dare say , '' replied Mrs. Weston , smiling , `` that I thought so then ; -- but since we have parted , I can never remember Emma 's omitting to do any thing I wished . '' 
Emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family . 
At ten years old , she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at seventeen . 
She was always quick and assured : Isabella slow and diffident . 
And ever since she was twelve , Emma has been mistress of the house and of you all . 
In her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her . 
She inherits her mother 's talents , and must have been under subjection to her . '' 
You might not give Emma such a complete education as your powers would seem to promise ; but you were receiving a very good education from her , on the very material matrimonial point of submitting your own will , and doing as you were bid ; and if Weston had asked me to recommend him a wife , I should certainly have named Miss Taylor . '' 
I do not pretend to Emma 's genius for foretelling and guessing . 
I think her the very worst sort of companion that Emma could possibly have . 
She knows nothing herself , and looks upon Emma as knowing every thing . 
She is a flatterer in all her ways ; and so much the worse , because undesigned . 
Her ignorance is hourly flattery . 
How can Emma imagine she has any thing to learn herself , while Harriet is presenting such a delightful inferiority ? 
I am much mistaken if Emma 's doctrines give any strength of mind , or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life . 
`` I either depend more upon Emma 's good sense than you do , or am more anxious for her present comfort ; for I can not lament the acquaintance . 
How well she looked last night ! '' 
you would rather talk of her person than her mind , would you ? 
Very well ; I shall not attempt to deny Emma 's being pretty . '' 
Can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than Emma altogether -- face and figure ? '' 
`` I do not know what I could imagine , but I confess that I have seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than her 's . 
There is health , not merely in her bloom , but in her air , her head , her glance . 
One hears sometimes of a child being ` the picture of health ; ' now Emma always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grown-up health . 
She is loveliness itself . 
Mr. Knightley , is not she ? '' 
`` I have not a fault to find with her person , '' he replied . 
`` I think her all you describe . 
I love to look at her ; and I will add this praise , that I do not think her personally vain . 
Considering how very handsome she is , she appears to be little occupied with it ; her vanity lies another way . 
With all dear Emma 's little faults , she is an excellent creature . 
No , no ; she has qualities which may be trusted ; she will never lead any one really wrong ; she will make no lasting blunder ; where Emma errs once , she is in the right a hundred times . '' 
Emma shall be an angel , and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings John and Isabella . 
John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection , and Isabella always thinks as he does ; except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children . 
`` I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind ; but excuse me , Mr. Knightley , if I take the liberty -LRB- I consider myself , you know , as having somewhat of the privilege of speech that Emma 's mother might have had -RRB- the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smith 's intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you . 
Pray excuse me ; but supposing any little inconvenience may be apprehended from the intimacy , it can not be expected that Emma , accountable to nobody but her father , who perfectly approves the acquaintance , should put an end to it , so long as it is a source of pleasure to herself . 
I have a very sincere interest in Emma . 
There is an anxiety , a curiosity in what one feels for Emma . 
I wonder what will become of her ! '' 
`` She always declares she will never marry , which , of course , means just nothing at all . 
But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for . 
It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object . 
I should like to see Emma in love , and in some doubt of a return ; it would do her good . 
But there is nobody hereabouts to attach her ; and she goes so seldom from home . '' 
`` There does , indeed , seem as little to tempt her to break her resolution , at present , '' said Mrs. Weston , `` as can well be ; and while she is so happy at Hartfield , I can not wish her to be forming any attachment which would be creating such difficulties , on poor Mr. Woodhouse 's account . 
I do not recommend matrimony at present to Emma , though I mean no slight to the state I assure you . '' 
There were wishes at Randalls respecting Emma 's destiny , but it was not desirable to have them suspected ; and the quiet transition which Mr. Knightley soon afterwards made to `` What does Weston think of the weather ; shall we have rain ? '' 
convinced her that he had nothing more to say or surmise about Hartfield . 
Emma could not feel a doubt of having given Harriet 's fancy a proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose , for she found her decidedly more sensible than before of Mr. Elton 's being a remarkably handsome man , with most agreeable manners ; and as she had no hesitation in following up the assurance of his admiration , by agreeable hints , she was soon pretty confident of creating as much liking on Harriet 's side , as there could be any occasion for . 
No sooner was she out of sight , than Emma exclaimed , `` What an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be ! 
-- thought Emma -- but what has all that to do with taking likenesses ? 
Emma wished to go to work directly , and therefore produced the portfolio containing her various attempts at portraits , for not one of them had ever been finished , that they might decide together on the best size for Harriet . 
`` No great variety of faces for you , '' said Emma . 
No husbands and wives , '' with so interesting a consciousness , that Emma began to consider whether she had not better leave them together at once . 
But as she wanted to be drawing , the declaration must wait a little longer . 
She had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait . 
It was to be a whole-length in water-colours , like Mr. John Knightley 's , and was destined , if she could please herself , to hold a very honourable station over the mantle-piece . 
Harriet listened , and Emma drew in peace . 
She must allow him to be still frequently coming to look ; anything less would certainly have been too little in a lover ; and he was ready at the smallest intermission of the pencil , to jump up and see the progress , and be charmed . 
She could not respect his eye , but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable . 
The sitting was altogether very satisfactory ; she was quite enough pleased with the first day 's sketch to wish to go on . 
There was no want of likeness , she had been fortunate in the attitude , and as she meant to throw in a little improvement to the figure , to give a little more height , and considerably more elegance , she had great confidence of its being in every way a pretty drawing at last , and of its filling its destined place with credit to them both -- a standing memorial of the beauty of one , the skill of the other , and the friendship of both ; with as many other agreeable associations as Mr. Elton 's very promising attachment was likely to add . 
`` You have made her too tall , Emma , '' said Mr. Knightley . 
Emma knew that she had , but would not own it , and Mr. Elton warmly added , `` Oh , no ! 
Mr. Elton was to take the drawing to London , chuse the frame , and give the directions ; and Emma thought she could so pack it as to ensure its safety without much incommoding him , while he seemed mostly fearful of not being incommóded enough . 
`` This man is almost too gallant to be in love , '' thought Emma . 
The very day of Mr. Elton 's going to London produced a fresh occasion for Emma 's services towards her friend . 
-- Emma was half ashamed of her friend for seeming so pleased and so doubtful . 
`` Upon my word '' she cried , `` the young man is determined not to lose any thing for want of asking . 
Emma was not sorry to be pressed . 
She read , and was surprized . 
The style of the letter was much above her expectation . 
She paused over it , while Harriet stood anxiously watching for her opinion , with a `` Well , well , '' and was at last forced to add , `` Is it a good letter ? 
`` Yes , indeed , a very good letter , '' replied Emma rather slowly -- `` so good a letter , Harriet , that every thing considered , I think one of his sisters must have helped him . 
With a little reserve of manner , Emma continued : `` You mean to return a favourable answer , I collect . '' 
For a little while Emma persevered in her silence ; but beginning to apprehend the bewitching flattery of that letter might be too powerful , she thought it best to say , `` I lay it down as a general rule , Harriet , that if a woman doubts as to whether she should accept a man or not , she certainly ought to refuse him . 
''' `` Not for the world , '' said Emma , smiling graciously , `` would I advise you either way . 
Emma waited the result with impatience , but not without strong hopes . 
Emma felt the bad taste of her friend , but let is pass with a `` very true ; and it would be a small consolation to her , for the clownish manner which might be offending her every hour of the day , to know that her husband could write a good letter . '' 
Emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer , and advised its being written directly , which was agreed to , in the hope of her assistance ; and though Emma continued to protest against any assistance being wanted , it was in fact given in the formation of every sentence . 
The looking over his letter again , in replying to it , had such a softening tendency , that it was particularly necessary to brace her up with a few decisive expressions ; and she was so very much concerned at the idea of making him unhappy , and thought so much of what his mother and sisters would think and say , and was so anxious that they should not fancy her ungrateful , that Emma believed if the young man had come in her way at that moment , he would have been accepted after all . 
She was rather low all the evening , but Emma could allow for her amiable regrets , and sometimes relieved them by speaking of her own affection , sometimes by bringing forward the idea of Mr. Elton . 
`` Let us think of those among our absent friends who are more cheerfully employed , '' cried Emma . 
For some weeks past she had been spending more than half her time there , and gradually getting to have a bed-room appropriated to herself ; and Emma judged it best in every respect , safest and kindest , to keep her with them as much as possible just at present . 
She was obliged to go the next morning for an hour or two to Mrs. Goddard 's , but it was then to be settled that she should return to Hartfield , to make a regular visit of some days . 
While she was gone , Mr. Knightley called , and sat some time with Mr. Woodhouse and Emma , till Mr. Woodhouse , who had previously made up his mind to walk out , was persuaded by his daughter not to defer it , and was induced by the entreaties of both , though against the scruples of his own civility , to leave Mr. Knightley for that purpose . 
`` Well , I believe , if you will excuse me , Mr. Knightley , if you will not consider me as doing a very rude thing , I shall take Emma 's advice and go out for a quarter of an hour . 
Emma will be happy to entertain you . 
He began speaking of Harriet , and speaking of her with more voluntary praise than Emma had ever heard before . 
Emma knew this was too true for contradiction , and therefore said nothing . 
Emma was more than half in hopes of Mr. Elton 's having dropt a hint . 
Mr. Knightley was a sort of general friend and adviser , and she knew Mr. Elton looked up to him . 
`` He is very obliging , '' said Emma ; `` but is he sure that Harriet means to marry him ? '' 
`` Pray , Mr. Knightley , '' said Emma , who had been smiling to herself through a great part of this speech , `` how do you know that Mr. Martin did not speak yesterday ? '' 
`` Come , '' said she , `` I will tell you something , in return for what you have told me . 
to be sure , '' cried Emma , `` it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage . 
Emma , this is your doing . 
Emma , your infatuation about that girl blinds you . 
I remember saying to myself , Even Emma , with all her partiality for Harriet , will think this a good match . '' 
`` I can not help wondering at your knowing so little of Emma as to say any such thing . 
Not regret her leaving Highbury for the sake of marrying a man whom I could never admit as an acquaintance of my own ! 
You have been no friend to Harriet Smith , Emma . 
Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far , if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him . 
It was most convenient to Emma not to make a direct reply to this assertion ; she chose rather to take up her own line of the subject again . 
`` Upon my word , Emma , to hear you abusing the reason you have , is almost enough to make me think so too . 
cried she playfully . 
Emma made no answer , and tried to look cheerfully unconcerned , but was really feeling uncomfortable and wanting him very much to be gone . 
She did not repent what she had done ; she still thought herself a better judge of such a point of female right and refinement than he could be ; but yet she had a sort of habitual respect for his judgment in general , which made her dislike having it so loudly against her ; and to have him sitting just opposite to her in angry state , was very disagreeable . 
Some minutes passed in this unpleasant silence , with only one attempt on Emma 's side to talk of the weather , but he made no answer . 
Emma laughed and disclaimed . 
`` I am very much obliged to you , '' said Emma , laughing again . 
He felt the disappointment of the young man , and was mortified to have been the means of promoting it , by the sanction he had given ; and the part which he was persuaded Emma had taken in the affair , was provoking him exceedingly . 
Emma remained in a state of vexation too ; but there was more indistinctness in the causes of her 's , than in his . 
She did not always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself , so entirely convinced that her opinions were right and her adversary 's wrong , as Mr. Knightley . 
He walked off in more complete self-approbation than he left for her . 
She was not so materially cast down , however , but that a little time and the return of Harriet were very adequate restoratives . 
Mr. Knightley might quarrel with her , but Emma could not quarrel with herself . 
He was so much displeased , that it was longer than usual before he came to Hartfield again ; and when they did meet , his grave looks shewed that she was not forgiven . 
She was sorry , but could not repent . 
On the contrary , her plans and proceedings were more and more justified , and endeared to her by the general appearances of the next few days . 
Emma was soon perfectly satisfied of Mr. Martin 's being no otherwise remembered , than as he furnished a contrast with Mr. Elton , of the utmost advantage to the latter . 
Her views of improving her little friend 's mind , by a great deal of useful reading and conversation , had never yet led to more than a few first chapters , and the intention of going on tomorrow . 
It was much easier to chat than to study ; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at Harriet 's fortune , than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts ; and the only literary pursuit which engaged Harriet at present , the only mental provision she was making for the evening of life , was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with , into a thin quarto of hot-pressed paper , made up by her friend , and ornamented with cyphers and trophies . 
Emma assisted with her invention , memory and taste ; and as Harriet wrote a very pretty hand , it was likely to be an arrangement of the first order , in form as well as quantity . 
He called for a few moments , just to leave a piece of paper on the table containing , as he said , a charade , which a friend of his had addressed to a young lady , the object of his admiration , but which , from his manner , Emma was immediately convinced must be his own . 
The speech was more to Emma than to Harriet , which Emma could understand . 
There was deep consciousness about him , and he found it easier to meet her eye than her friend 's . 
He was gone the next moment : -- after another moment 's pause , `` Take it , '' said Emma , smiling , and pushing the paper towards Harriet -- `` it is for you . 
But Harriet was in a tremor , and could not touch it ; and Emma , never loth to be first , was obliged to examine it herself . 
To Miss -- She cast her eye over it , pondered , caught the meaning , read it through again to be quite certain , and quite mistress of the lines , and then passing it to Harriet , sat happily smiling , and saying to herself , while Harriet was puzzling over the paper in all the confusion of hope and dulness , `` Very well , Mr. Elton , very well , indeed . 
Emma spoke for her . 
`` There is so pointed , and so particular a meaning in this compliment , '' said she , `` that I can not have a moment 's doubt as to Mr. Elton 's intentions . 
Emma could not have desired a more spirited rejection of Mr. Martin 's prose . 
`` Very well , '' replied Emma , `` a most natural feeling ; and the longer it lasts , the better I shall be pleased . 
-- Nobody could have written so prettily , but you , Emma . '' 
Emma only nodded , and smiled . 
I think , Emma , I shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us . 
She and the children might stay very well . '' 
Unwelcome as it was , Mr. Woodhouse could only give a submissive sigh ; and as Emma saw his spirits affected by the idea of his daughter 's attachment to her husband , she immediately led to such a branch of the subject as must raise them . 
`` He appears rough to you , '' said Emma , `` because you are so very gentle yourself ; but if you could compare him with other papas , you would not think him rough . 
Harriet turned away ; but Emma could receive him with the usual smile , and her quick eye soon discerned in his the consciousness of having made a push -- of having thrown a die ; and she imagined he was come to see how it might turn up . 
Emma thanked him , but could not allow of his disappointing his friend on their account ; her father was sure of his rubber . 
He re-urged -- she redeclined ; and he seemed then about to make his bow , when taking the paper from the table , she returned it -- `` Oh ! 
He looked rather doubtingly -- rather confused ; said something about `` honour ; '' -- glanced at Emma and at Harriet , and then seeing the book open on the table , took it up , and examined it very attentively . 
With the view of passing off an awkward moment , Emma smilingly said , `` You must make my apologies to your friend ; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two . 
Emma could not think it too soon ; for with all his good and agreeable qualities , there was a sort of parade in his speeches which was very apt to incline her to laugh . 
She ran away to indulge the inclination , leaving the tender and the sublime of pleasure to Harriet 's share . 
Though now the middle of December , there had yet been no weather to prevent the young ladies from tolerably regular exercise ; and on the morrow , Emma had a charitable visit to pay to a poor sick family , who lived a little way out of Highbury . 
-- Emma 's remark was -- `` There it is . 
`` I do not often walk this way now , '' said Emma , as they proceeded , `` but then there will be an inducement , and I shall gradually get intimately acquainted with all the hedges , gates , pools , and pollards of this part of Highbury . '' 
Harriet , she found , had never in her life been within side the Vicarage , and her curiosity to see it was so extreme , that , considering exteriors and probabilities , Emma could only class it , as a proof of love , with Mr. Elton 's seeing ready wit in her . 
`` I wish we could contrive it , '' said she ; `` but I can not think of any tolerable pretence for going in ; -- no servant that I want to inquire about of his housekeeper -- no message from my father . '' 
She pondered , but could think of nothing . 
-- Emma laughed , and replied , `` My being charming , Harriet , is not quite enough to induce me to marry ; I must find other people charming -- one other person at least . 
Emma was very compassionate ; and the distresses of the poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention and kindness , her counsel and her patience , as from her purse . 
She understood their ways , could allow for their ignorance and their temptations , had no romantic expectations of extraordinary virtue from those , for whom education had done so little ; entered into their troubles with ready sympathy , and always gave her assistance with as much intelligence as good-will . 
In the present instance , it was sickness and poverty together which she came to visit ; and after remaining there as long as she could give comfort or advice , she quitted the cottage with such an impression of the scene as made her say to Harriet , as they walked away , `` These are the sights , Harriet , to do one good . 
`` And really , I do not think the impression will soon be over , '' said Emma , as she crossed the low hedge , and tottering footstep which ended the narrow , slippery path through the cottage garden , and brought them into the lane again . 
dear , no , '' said her companion . 
The lane made a slight bend ; and when that bend was passed , Mr. Elton was immediately in sight ; and so near as to give Emma time only to say farther , `` Ah ! 
`` To fall in with each other on such an errand as this , '' thought Emma ; `` to meet in a charitable scheme ; this will bring a great increase of love on each side . 
Anxious to separate herself from them as far as she could , she soon afterwards took possession of a narrow footpath , a little raised on one side of the lane , leaving them together in the main road . 
But she had not been there two minutes when she found that Harriet 's habits of dependence and imitation were bringing her up too , and that , in short , they would both be soon after her . 
Mr. Elton was speaking with animation , Harriet listening with a very pleased attention ; and Emma having sent the child on , was beginning to think how she might draw back a little more , when they both looked around , and she was obliged to join them . 
Mr. Elton was still talking , still engaged in some interesting detail ; and Emma experienced some disappointment when she found that he was only giving his fair companion an account of the yesterday 's party at his friend Cole 's , and that she was come in herself for the Stilton cheese , the north Wiltshire , the butter , the cellery , the beet-root and all the dessert . 
`` This would soon have led to something better of course , '' was her consoling reflection ; `` any thing interests between those who love ; and any thing will serve as introduction to what is near the heart . 
The room they were taken into was the one he chiefly occupied , and looking forwards ; behind it was another with which it immediately communicated ; the door between them was open , and Emma passed into it with the housekeeper to receive her assistance in the most comfortable manner . 
She was obliged to leave the door ajar as she found it ; but she fully intended that Mr. Elton should close it . 
It had a most favourable aspect ; and , for half a minute , Emma felt the glory of having schemed successfully . 
`` Cautious , very cautious , '' thought Emma ; `` he advances inch by inch , and will hazard nothing till he believes himself secure . '' 
Still , however , though every thing had not been accomplished by her ingenious device , she could not but flatter herself that it had been the occasion of much present enjoyment to both , and must be leading them forward to the great event . 
It was no longer in Emma 's power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures . 
The coming of her sister 's family was so very near at hand , that first in anticipation and then in reality , it became henceforth her prime object of interest ; and during the ten days of their stay at Hartfield it was not to be expected -- she did not herself expect -- that any thing beyond occasional , fortuitous assistance could be afforded by her to the lovers . 
She hardly wished to have more leisure for them . 
It did not often happen ; for Mr. John Knightley had really a great regard for his father-in-law , and generally a strong sense of what was due to him ; but it was too often for Emma 's charity , especially as there was all the pain of apprehension frequently to be endured , though the offence came not . 
And dear Emma too ! 
Mr. John Knightley here asked Emma quietly whether there were any doubts of the air of Randalls . 
I have been always telling you , my love , that I had no idea of the change being so very material to Hartfield as you apprehended ; and now you have Emma 's account , I hope you will be satisfied . '' 
You and I , Emma , will venture to take the part of the poor husband . 
`` He has not been here yet , '' replied Emma . 
`` But you should tell them of the letter , my dear , '' said her father . 
Emma could not like what bordered on a reflection on Mr. Weston , and had half a mind to take it up ; but she struggled , and let it pass . 
She would keep the peace if possible ; and there was something honourable and valuable in the strong domestic habits , the all-sufficiency of home to himself , whence resulted her brother 's disposition to look down on the common rate of social intercourse , and those to whom it was important . 
Emma 's sense of right however had decided it ; and besides the consideration of what was due to each brother , she had particular pleasure , from the circumstance of the late disagreement between Mr. Knightley and herself , in procuring him the proper invitation . 
She hoped they might now become friends again . 
She thought it was time to make up . 
She certainly had not been in the wrong , and he would never own that he had . 
Concession must be out of the question ; but it was time to appear to forget that they had ever quarrelled ; and she hoped it might rather assist the restoration of friendship , that when he came into the room she had one of the children with her -- the youngest , a nice little girl about eight months old , who was now making her first visit to Hartfield , and very happy to be danced about in her aunt 's arms . 
It did assist ; for though he began with grave looks and short questions , he was soon led on to talk of them all in the usual way , and to take the child out of her arms with all the unceremoniousness of perfect amity . 
Emma felt they were friends again ; and the conviction giving her at first great satisfaction , and then a little sauciness , she could not help saying , as he was admiring the baby , `` What a comfort it is , that we think alike about our nephews and nieces . 
`` A material difference then , '' she replied -- `` and no doubt you were much my superior in judgment at that period of our lives ; but does not the lapse of one-and-twenty years bring our understandings a good deal nearer ? '' 
Come , my dear Emma , let us be friends and say no more about it . 
Tell your aunt , little Emma , that she ought to set you a better example than to be renewing old grievances , and that if she were not wrong before , she is now . '' 
`` That 's true , '' she cried -- `` very true . 
Little Emma , grow up a better woman than your aunt . 
The evening was quiet and conversible , as Mr. Woodhouse declined cards entirely for the sake of comfortable talk with his dear Isabella , and the little party made two natural division ; on one side he and his daughter ; on the other the two Mr. Knightleys ; their subjects totally distinct , or very rarely mixing -- and Emma only occasionally joining in one or the other . 
My dear Emma , suppose we all have a little gruel . '' 
Emma could not suppose any such thing , knowing , as she did , that both the Mr. Knightleys were as unpersuadable on that article as herself ; -- and two basins only were ordered . 
`` Come , come , '' cried Emma , feeling this to be an unsafe subject , `` I must beg you not to talk of the sea . 
`` It is not very likely , my dear , that bathing should have been of use to her -- and if I had known you were wanting an embrocation , I would have spoken to -- '' `` You seem to me to have forgotten Mrs. and Miss Bates , '' said Emma , `` I have not heard one inquiry after them . '' 
I trust , at least , that you do not think Mr. Knightley looking ill , '' -- turning her eyes with affectionate anxiety towards her husband . 
`` I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother , '' cried Emma , `` about your friend Mr. Graham 's intending to have a bailiff from Scotland , to look after his new estate . 
And she talked in this way so long and successfully that , when forced to give her attention again to her father and sister , she had nothing worse to hear than Isabella 's kind inquiry after Jane Fairfax ; -- and Jane Fairfax , though no great favourite with her in general , she was at that moment very happy to assist in praising . 
I always regret excessively on dear Emma 's account that she can not be more at Highbury ; but now their daughter is married , I suppose Colonel and Mrs. Campbell will not be able to part with her at all . 
She would be such a delightful companion for Emma . '' 
Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet . '' 
-- and exactly Emma 's age . '' 
-- The ejaculation in Emma 's ear expressed , `` Ah ! 
And for a little while she hoped he would not talk of it , and that a silent rumination might suffice to restore him to the relish of his own smooth gruel . 
Emma 's attempts to stop her father had been vain ; and when he had reached such a point as this , she could not wonder at her brother-in-law 's breaking out . 
How they were all to be conveyed , he would have made a difficulty if he could , but as his son and daughter 's carriage and horses were actually at Hartfield , he was not able to make more than a simple question on that head ; it hardly amounted to a doubt ; nor did it occupy Emma long to convince him that they might in one of the carriages find room for Harriet also . 
The evening before this great event -LRB- for it was a very great event that Mr. Woodhouse should dine out , on the 24th of December -RRB- had been spent by Harriet at Hartfield , and she had gone home so much indisposed with a cold , that , but for her own earnest wish of being nursed by Mrs. Goddard , Emma could not have allowed her to leave the house . 
Emma called on her the next day , and found her doom already signed with regard to Randalls . 
She was very feverish and had a bad sore-throat : Mrs. Goddard was full of care and affection , Mr. Perry was talked of , and Harriet herself was too ill and low to resist the authority which excluded her from this delightful engagement , though she could not speak of her loss without many tears . 
Emma sat with her as long as she could , to attend her in Mrs. Goddard 's unavoidable absences , and raise her spirits by representing how much Mr. Elton 's would be depressed when he knew her state ; and left her at last tolerably comfortable , in the sweet dependence of his having a most comfortless visit , and of their all missing her very much . 
Emma was just describing the nature of her friend 's complaint ; -- `` a throat very much inflamed , with a great deal of heat about her , a quick low pulse , & c. and she was sorry to find from Mrs. Goddard that Harriet was liable to very bad sore-throats , and had often alarmed her with them . '' 
Emma , who was not really at all frightened herself , tranquillized this excess of apprehension by assurances of Mrs. Goddard 's experience and care ; but as there must still remain a degree of uneasiness which she could not wish to reason away , which she would rather feed and assist than not , she added soon afterwards -- as if quite another subject , `` It is so cold , so very cold -- and looks and feels so very much like snow , that if it were to any other place or with any other party , I should really try not to go out to-day -- and dissuade my father from venturing ; but as he has made up his mind , and does not seem to feel the cold himself , I do not like to interfere , as I know it would be so great a disappointment to Mr. and Mrs. Weston . 
Mr. Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make ; which was exactly the case ; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady , and not liking to resist any advice of her 's , he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit ; -- but Emma , too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially , or see him with clear vision , was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being `` very cold , certainly very cold , '' and walked on , rejoicing in having extricated himself from Randalls , and secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every hour of the evening . 
`` Mr. Elton 's manners are not perfect , '' replied Emma ; `` but where there is a wish to please , one ought to overlook , and one does overlook a great deal . 
she replied with a smile of astonishment , `` are you imagining me to be Mr. Elton 's object ? '' 
`` Such an imagination has crossed me , I own , Emma ; and if it never occurred to you before , you may as well take it into consideration now . '' 
I speak as a friend , Emma . 
Mr. Elton and I are very good friends , and nothing more ; '' and she walked on , amusing herself in the consideration of the blunders which often arise from a partial knowledge of circumstances , of the mistakes which people of high pretensions to judgment are for ever falling into ; and not very well pleased with her brother for imagining her blind and ignorant , and in want of counsel . 
Emma soon saw that her companion was not in the happiest humour . 
Emma did not find herself equal to give the pleased assent , which no doubt he was in the habit of receiving , to emulate the `` Very true , my love , '' which must have been usually administered by his travelling companion ; but she had resolution enough to refrain from making any answer at all . 
She could not be complying , she dreaded being quarrelsome ; her heroism reached only to silence . 
She allowed him to talk , and arranged the glasses , and wrapped herself up , without opening her lips . 
Emma thought with pleasure of some change of subject . 
Mr. Elton was all obligation and cheerfulness ; he was so very cheerful in his civilities indeed , that she began to think he must have received a different account of Harriet from what had reached her . 
Emma smiled and answered -- `` My visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint , I hope ; but not even I can charm away a sore throat ; it is a most severe cold indeed . 
Emma was rather in dismay when only half a minute afterwards he began to speak of other things , and in a voice of the greatest alacrity and enjoyment . 
At another time Emma might have been amused , but she was too much astonished now at Mr. Elton 's spirits for other feelings . 
I think you will agree with me , -LRB- turning with a soft air to Emma , -RRB- I think I shall certainly have your approbation , though Mr. Knightley perhaps , from being used to the large parties of London , may not quite enter into our feelings . '' 
-- Emma only might be as nature prompted , and shew herself just as happy as she was . 
To her , it was real enjoyment to be with the Westons . 
Mr. Weston was a great favourite , and there was not a creature in the world to whom she spoke with such unreserve , as to his wife ; not any one , to whom she related with such conviction of being listened to and understood , of being always interesting and always intelligible , the little affairs , arrangements , perplexities and pleasures of her father and herself . 
She could tell nothing of Hartfield , in which Mrs. Weston had not a lively concern ; and half an hour 's uninterrupted communication of all those little matters on which the daily happiness of private life depends , was one of the first gratifications of each . 
This was a pleasure which perhaps the whole day 's visit might not afford , which certainly did not belong to the present half hour ; but the very sight of Mrs. Weston , her smile , her touch , her voice was grateful to Emma , and she determined to think as little as possible of Mr. Elton 's oddities , or of any thing else unpleasant , and enjoy all that was enjoyable to the utmost . 
Mr. Woodhouse had been safely seated long enough to give the history of it , besides all the history of his own and Isabella 's coming , and of Emma 's being to follow , and had in deed just got to the end of his satisfaction that James should come and see his daughter , when the others appeared , and Mrs. Weston , who had been almost wholly engrossed by her attentions to him , was able to turn away and welcome her dear Emma . 
Emma 's project of forgetting Mr. Elton for a while , made her rather sorry to find , when they had all taken their places , that he was close to her . 
Now , it so happened that in spite of Emma 's resolution of never marrying , there was something in the name , in the idea of Mr. Frank Churchill , which always interested her . 
She had frequently thought -- especially since his father 's marriage with Miss Taylor -- that if she were to marry , he was the very person to suit her in age , character and condition . 
Emma spoke with a vry proper degree of pleasure ; and fully assented to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making their party quite complete . 
`` I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case , '' replied Emma ; `` but am disposed to side with you , Mr. Weston . 
Emma liked the subject so well , that she began upon it , to Mrs. Weston , very soon after their moving into the drawing-room : wishing her joy -- yet observing , that she knew the first meeting must be rather alarming . 
`` My Emma ! '' 
Emma wished she had been alone with Mrs. Weston . 
While he talked to Isabella , however , Emma found an opportunity of saying , `` And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain . 
`` He ought to come , '' said Emma . 
`` My dearest Emma , do not pretend , with your sweet temper , to understand a bad one , or to lay down rules for it : you must let it go its own way . 
Emma listened , and then coolly said , `` I shall not be satisfied , unless he comes . '' 
Mrs. Weston and Emma were sitting together on a sopha . 
Emma , in good spirits too , from the amusement afforded her mind by the expectation of Mr. Frank Churchill , was willing to forget his late improprieties , and be as well satisfied with him as before , and on his making Harriet his very first subject , was ready to listen with most friendly smiles . 
And in this style he talked on for some time very properly , not much attending to any answer , but altogether sufficiently awake to the terror of a bad sore throat ; and Emma was quite in charity with him . 
But at last there seemed a perverse turn ; it seemed all at once as if he were more afraid of its being a bad sore throat on her account , than on Harriet 's -- more anxious that she should escape the infection , than that there should be no infection in the complaint . 
Emma saw Mrs. Weston 's surprize , and felt that it must be great , at an address which , in words and manner , was assuming to himself the right of first interest in her ; and as for herself , she was too much provoked and offended to have the power of directly saying any thing to the purpose . 
She could only give him a look ; but it was such a look as she thought must restore him to his senses ; and then left the sopha , removing to a seat by her sister , and giving her all her attention . 
She had not time to know how Mr. Elton took the reproof , so rapidly did another subject succeed ; for Mr. John Knightley now came into the room from examining the weather , and opened on them all with the information of the ground being covered with snow , and of its still snowing fast , with a strong drifting wind ; concluding with these words to Mr. Woodhouse : `` This will prove a spirited beginning of your winter engagements , sir . 
Mrs. Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his son-in-law , who was pursuing his triumph rather unfeelingly . 
`` What is to be done , my dear Emma ? 
The horror of being blocked up at Randalls , while her children were at Hartfield , was full in her imagination ; and fancying the road to be now just passable for adventurous people , but in a state that admitted no delay , she was eager to have it settled , that her father and Emma should remain at Randalls , while she and her husband set forward instantly through all the possible accumulations of drifted snow that might impede them . 
Isabella then went to Emma ; but Emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all able to get away ; and they were still discussing the point , when Mr. Knightley , who had left the room immediately after his brother 's first report of the snow , came back again , and told them that he had been out of doors to examine , and could answer for there not being the smallest difficulty in their getting home , whenever they liked it , either now or an hour hence . 
To Isabella , the relief of such tidings was very great , and they were scarcely less acceptable to Emma on her father 's account , who was immediately set as much at ease on the subject as his nervous constitution allowed ; but the alarm that had been raised could not be appeased so as to admit of any comfort for him while he continued at Randalls . 
He was satisfied of there being no present danger in returning home , but no assurances could convince him that it was safe to stay ; and while the others were variously urging and recommending , Mr. Knightley and Emma settled it in a few brief sentences : thus -- `` Your father will not be easy ; why do not you go ? '' 
A few minutes more , and Emma hoped to see one troublesome companion deposited in his own house , to get sober and cool , and the other recover his temper and happiness when this visit of hardship were over . 
And there would be poor Emma in the carriage behind . 
Isabella stept in after her father ; John Knightley , forgetting that he did not belong to their party , stept in after his wife very naturally ; so that Emma found , on being escorted and followed into the second carriage by Mr. Elton , that the door was to be lawfully shut on them , and that they were to have a tête-à-tête drive . 
It would not have been the awkwardness of a moment , it would have been rather a pleasure , previous to the suspicions of this very day ; she could have talked to him of Harriet , and the three-quarters of a mile would have seemed but one . 
But now , she would rather it had not happened . 
She believed he had been drinking too much of Mr. Weston 's good wine , and felt sure that he would want to be talking nonsense . 
To restrain him as much as might be , by her own manners , she was immediately preparing to speak with exquisite calmness and gravity of the weather and the night ; but scarcely had she begun , scarcely had they passed the sweep-gate and joined the other carriage , than she found her subject cut up -- her hand seized -- her attention demanded , and Mr. Elton actually making violent love to her : availing himself of the precious opportunity , declaring sentiments which must be already well known , hoping -- fearing -- adoring -- ready to die if she refused him ; but flattering himself that his ardent attachment and unequalled love and unexampled passion could not fail of having some effect , and in short , very much resolved on being seriously accepted as soon as possible . 
It would be impossible to say what Emma felt , on hearing this -- which of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost . 
She was too completely overpowered to be immediately able to reply : and two moments of silence being ample encouragement for Mr. Elton 's sanguine state of mind , he tried to take her hand again , as he joyously exclaimed -- `` Charming Miss Woodhouse ! 
`` No , sir , '' cried Emma , `` it confesses no such thing . 
He was too angry to say another word ; her manner too decided to invite supplication ; and in this state of swelling resentment , and mutually deep mortification , they had to continue together a few minutes longer , for the fears of Mr. Woodhouse had confined them to a foot pace . 
-- Emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night . 
The compliment was just returned , coldly and proudly ; and , under indescribable irritation of spirits , she was then conveyed to Hartfield . 
The hair was curled , and the maid sent away , and Emma sat down to think and be miserable . 
-- Such an overthrow of every thing she had been wishing for ! 
-- But he had fancied her in love with him ; that evidently must have been his dependence ; and after raving a little about the seeming incongruity of gentle manners and a conceited head , Emma was obliged in common honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so complaisant and obliging , so full of courtesy and attention , as -LRB- supposing her real motive unperceived -RRB- might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy , like Mr. Elton , in fancying himself a very decided favourite . 
If she had so misinterpreted his feelings , she had little right to wonder that he , with self-interest to blind him , should have mistaken her 's . 
The first error and the worst lay at her door . 
She was quite concerned and ashamed , and resolved to do such things no more . 
`` Here have I , '' said she , `` actually talked poor Harriet into being very much attached to this man . 
She stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse , and then resumed a more serious , more dispiriting cogitation upon what had been , and might be , and must be . 
The distressing explanation she had to make to Harriet , and all that poor Harriet would be suffering , with the awkwardness of future meetings , the difficulties of continuing or discontinuing the acquaintance , of subduing feelings , concealing resentment , and avoiding eclat , were enough to occupy her in most unmirthful reflections some time longer , and she went to bed at last with nothing settled but the conviction of her having blundered most dreadfully . 
To youth and natural cheerfulness like Emma 's , though under temporary gloom at night , the return of day will hardly fail to bring return of spirits . 
Emma got up on the morrow more disposed for comfort than she had gone to bed , more ready to see alleviations of the evil before her , and to depend on getting tolerably out of it . 
It was a great consolation that Mr. Elton should not be really in love with her , or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking to disappoint him -- that Harriet 's nature should not be of that superior sort in which the feelings are most acute and retentive -- and that there could be no necessity for any body 's knowing what had passed except the three principals , and especially for her father 's being given a moment 's uneasiness about it . 
But with all the hopes of cheerfulness , and all the present comfort of delay , there was still such an evil hanging over her in the hour of explanation with Harriet , as made it impossible for Emma to be ever perfectly at ease . 
Emma was most agreeably surprized . 
She admired him for contriving it , though not able to give him much credit for the manner in which it was announced . 
Resentment could not have been more plainly spoken than in a civility to her father , from which she was so pointedly excluded . 
She had not even a share in his opening compliments . 
-- Her name was not mentioned ; -- and there was so striking a change in all this , and such an ill-judged solemnity of leave-taking in his grateful acknowledgments , as she thought , at first , could not escape her father 's suspicion . 
-- Her father was quite taken up with the surprize of so sudden a journey , and his fears that Mr. Elton might never get safely to the end of it , and saw nothing extraordinary in his language . 
Mr. Woodhouse talked over his alarms , and Emma was in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual promptitude . 
She now resolved to keep Harriet no longer in the dark . 
She had reason to believe her nearly recovered from her cold , and it was desirable that she should have as much time as possible for getting the better of her other complaint before the gentleman 's return . 
She went to Mrs. Goddard 's accordingly the very next day , to undergo the necessary penance of communication ; and a severe one it was . 
-- She had to destroy all the hopes which she had been so industriously feeding -- to appear in the ungracious character of the one preferred -- and acknowledge herself grossly mistaken and mis-judging in all her ideas on one subject , all her observations , all her convictions , all her prophesies for the last six weeks . 
The confession completely renewed her first shame -- and the sight of Harriet 's tears made her think that she should never be in charity with herself again . 
Emma was in the humour to value simplicity and modesty to the utmost ; and all that was amiable , all that ought to be attaching , seemed on Harriet 's side , not her own . 
Her tears fell abundantly -- but her grief was so truly artless , that no dignity could have made it more respectable in Emma 's eyes -- and she listened to her and tried to console her with all her heart and understanding -- really for the time convinced that Harriet was the superior creature of the two -- and that to resemble her would be more for her own welfare and happiness than all that genius or intelligence could do . 
Harriet did think him all perfection , and maintain the non-existence of any body equal to him in person or goodness -- and did , in truth , prove herself more resolutely in love than Emma had foreseen ; but yet it appeared to her so natural , so inevitable to strive against an inclination of that sort unrequited , that she could not comprehend its continuing very long in equal force . 
If Mr. Elton , on his return , made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he would anxiously do , she could not imagine Harriet 's persisting to place her happiness in the sight or the recollection of him . 
Where the wound had been given , there must the cure be found if anywhere ; and Emma felt that , till she saw her in the way of cure , there could be no true peace for herself . 
Emma was not at this time in a state of spirits to care really about Mr. Frank Churchill 's not coming , except as a disappointment at Randalls . 
The acquaintance at present had no charm for her . 
She wanted , rather , to be quiet , and out of temptation ; but still , as it was desirable that she should appear , in general , like her usual self , she took care to express as much interest in the circumstance , and enter as warmly into Mr. and Mrs. Weston 's disappointment , as might naturally belong to their friendship . 
`` There is one thing , Emma , which a man can always do , if he chuses , and that is , his duty ; not by manoeuvring and finessing , but by vigour and resolution . 
`` No , '' said Emma , laughing ; `` but perhaps there might be some made to his coming back again . 
`` Depend upon it , Emma , a sensible man would find no difficulty in it . 
`` We shall never agree about him , '' cried Emma ; `` but that is nothing extraordinary . 
No , Emma , your amiable young man can be amiable only in French , not in English . 
My dear Emma , your own good sense could not endure such a puppy when it came to the point . '' 
`` I will say no more about him , '' cried Emma , `` you turn every thing to evil . 
`` He is a person I never think of from one month 's end to another , '' said Mr. Knightley , with a degree of vexation , which made Emma immediately talk of something else , though she could not comprehend why he should be angry . 
To take a dislike to a young man , only because he appeared to be of a different disposition from himself , was unworthy the real liberality of mind which she was always used to acknowledge in him ; for with all the high opinion of himself , which she had often laid to his charge , she had never before for a moment supposed it could make him unjust to the merit of another . 
Emma and Harriet had been walking together one morning , and , in Emma 's opinion , been talking enough of Mr. Elton for that day . 
She could not think that Harriet 's solace or her own sins required more ; and she was therefore industriously getting rid of the subject as they returned ; -- but it burst out again when she thought she had succeeded , and after speaking some time of what the poor must suffer in winter , and receiving no other answer than a very plaintive -- `` Mr. Elton is so good to the poor ! '' 
she found something else must be done . 
Emma knew what was coming ; they must have the letter over again , and settle how long he had been gone , and how much he was engaged in company , and what a favourite he was wherever he went , and how full the Master of the Ceremonies ' ball had been ; and she went through it very well , with all the interest and all the commendation that could be requisite , and always putting forward to prevent Harriet 's being obliged to say a word . 
Emma 's politeness was at hand directly , to say , with smiling interest -- `` Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately ? 
''' All this spoken extremely fast obliged Miss Bates to stop for breath ; and Emma said something very civil about the excellence of Miss Fairfax 's handwriting . 
And Emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment repeated twice over before the good old lady could comprehend it . 
At this moment , an ingenious and animating suspicion entering Emma 's brain with regard to Jane Fairfax , this charming Mr. Dixon , and the not going to Ireland , she said , with the insidious design of further discovery , `` You must feel it very fortunate that Miss Fairfax should be allowed to come to you at such a time . 
`` I am afraid we must be running away , '' said Emma , glancing at Harriet , and beginning to rise -- `` My father will be expecting us . 
And not all that could be urged to detain her succeeded . 
She regained the street -- happy in this , that though much had been forced on her against her will , though she had in fact heard the whole substance of Jane Fairfax 's letter , she had been able to escape the letter itself . 
Emma was sorry ; -- to have to pay civilities to a person she did not like through three long months ! 
-- to be always doing more than she wished , and less than she ought ! 
Why she did not like Jane Fairfax might be a difficult question to answer ; Mr. Knightley had once told her it was because she saw in her the really accomplished young woman , which she wanted to be thought herself ; and though the accusation had been eagerly refuted at the time , there were moments of self-examination in which her conscience could not quite acquit her . 
Emma could not but feel all this ; and then , her face -- her features -- there was more beauty in them all together than she had remembered ; it was not regular , but it was very pleasing beauty . 
Her eyes , a deep grey , with dark eye-lashes and eye-brows , had never been denied their praise ; but the skin , which she had been used to cavil at , as wanting colour , had a clearness and delicacy which really needed no fuller bloom . 
It was a style of beauty , of which elegance was the reigning character , and as such , she must , in honour , by all her principles , admire it : -- elegance , which , whether of person or of mind , she saw so little in Highbury . 
In short , she sat , during the first visit , looking at Jane Fairfax with two-fold complacency ; the sense of pleasure and the sense of rendering justice , and was determining that she would dislike her no longer . 
Emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced Mr. Dixon 's affections from his wife , or of anything mischievous which her imagination had suggested at first . 
If it were love , it might be simple , single , successless love on her side alone . 
She might have been unconsciously sucking in the sad poison , while a sharer of his conversation with her friend ; and from the best , the purest of motives , might now be denying herself this visit to Ireland , and resolving to divide herself effectually from him and his connections by soon beginning her career of laborious duty . 
Upon the whole , Emma left her with such softened , charitable feelings , as made her look around in walking home , and lament that Highbury afforded no young man worthy of giving her independence ; nobody that she could wish to scheme about for her . 
Before she had committed herself by any public profession of eternal friendship for Jane Fairfax , or done more towards a recantation of past prejudices and errors , than saying to Mr. Knightley , `` She certainly is handsome ; she is better than handsome ! '' 
They had music ; Emma was obliged to play ; and the thanks and praise which necessarily followed appeared to her an affectation of candour , an air of greatness , meaning only to shew off in higher style her own very superior performance . 
She was , besides , which was the worst of all , so cold , so cautious ! 
There was no getting at her real opinion . 
Wrapt up in a cloak of politeness , she seemed determined to hazard nothing . 
She was disgustingly , was suspiciously reserved . 
If anything could be more , where all was most , she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than anything . 
She seemed bent on giving no real insight into Mr. Dixon 's character , or her own value for his company , or opinion of the suitableness of the match . 
It did her no service however . 
Her caution was thrown away . 
Emma saw its artifice , and returned to her first surmises . 
There probably was something more to conceal than her own preference ; Mr. Dixon , perhaps , had been very near changing one friend for the other , or been fixed only to Miss Campbell , for the sake of the future twelve thousand pounds . 
It was known that they were a little acquainted ; but not a syllable of real information could Emma procure as to what he truly was . 
Emma could not forgive her . 
Emma could not forgive her ; -- but as neither provocation nor resentment were discerned by Mr. Knightley , who had been of the party , and had seen only proper attention and pleasing behaviour on each side , he was expressing the next morning , being at Hartfield again on business with Mr. Woodhouse , his approbation of the whole ; not so openly as he might have done had her father been out of the room , but speaking plain enough to be very intelligible to Emma . 
He had been used to think her unjust to Jane , and had now great pleasure in marking an improvement . 
I am sure Miss Fairfax must have found the evening pleasant , Emma . 
I was glad you made her play so much , for having no instrument at her grandmother 's , it must have been a real indulgence . '' 
`` I am happy you approved , '' said Emma , smiling ; `` but I hope I am not often deficient in what is due to guests at Hartfield . '' 
`` No , my dear , '' said her father instantly ; `` that I am sure you are not . 
An arch look expressed -- `` I understand you well enought ; '' but she said only , `` Miss Fairfax is reserved . '' 
`` My dear Emma , '' said he , moving from his chair into one close by her , `` you are not going to tell me , I hope , that you had not a pleasant evening . '' 
She must have found the evening agreeable , Mr. Knightley , because she had Emma . '' 
`` True , sir ; and Emma , because she had Miss Fairfax . '' 
Emma saw his anxiety , and wishing to appease it , at least for the present , said , and with a sincerity which no one could question -- `` She is a sort of elegant creature that one can not keep one 's eyes from . 
I am always watching her to admire ; and I do pity her from my heart . '' 
and I have often wished -- but it is so little one can venture to do -- small , trifling presents , of anything uncommon -- Now we have killed a porker , and Emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg ; it is very small and delicate -- Hartfield pork is not like any other pork -- but still it is pork -- and , my dear Emma , unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks , nicely fried , as our 's are fried , without the smallest grease , and not roast it , for no stomach can bear roast pork -- I think we had better send the leg -- do not you think so , my dear ? '' 
`` Emma , '' said Mr. Knightley presently , `` I have a piece of news for you . 
Emma had not had time even to think of Mr. Elton , and she was so completely surprized that she could not avoid a little start , and a little blush , at the sound . 
`` We consider our Hartfield pork , '' replied Mr. Woodhouse -- `` indeed it certainly is , so very superior to all other pork , that Emma and I can not have a greater pleasure than '' -- `` Oh ! 
-- Here was a sly glance at Emma . 
said Emma , as soon as she could speak . 
cried Emma . 
-- My dear sir , if there is one thing my mother loves better than another , it is pork -- a roast loin of pork '' -- `` As to who , or what Miss Hawkins is , or how long he has been acquainted with her , '' said Emma , `` nothing I suppose can be known . 
Nobody had any information to give ; and , after a few more wonderings , Emma said , `` You are silent , Miss Fairfax -- but I hope you mean to take an interest in this news . 
Emma , alone with her father , had half her attention wanted by him , while he lamented that young people would be in such a hurry to marry -- and to marry strangers too -- and the other half she could give to her own view of the subject . 
It was to herself an amusing and a very welcome piece of news , as proving that Mr. Elton could not have suffered long ; but she was sorry for Harriet : Harriet must feel it -- and all that she could hope was , by giving the first information herself , to save her from hearing it abruptly from others . 
-- and upon its beginning to rain , Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be detaining her at Mrs. Goddard 's , and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation . 
As the blow was given , Emma felt that she could not now shew greater kindness than in listening ; and Harriet , unchecked , ran eagerly through what she had to tell . 
Very sincerely did Emma wish to do so ; but it was not immediately in her power . 
She was obliged to stop and think . 
She was not thoroughly comfortable herself . 
Harriet said , `` very true ; '' and she `` would not think about it ; '' but still she talked of it -- still she could talk of nothing else ; and Emma , at last , in order to put the Martins out of her head , was obliged to hurry on the news , which she had meant to give with so much tender caution ; hardly knowing herself whether to rejoice or be angry , ashamed or only amused , at such a state of mind in poor Harriet -- such a conclusion of Mr. Elton 's importance with her ! 
Emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a meeting . 
During his present short stay , Emma had barely seem him ; but just enough to feel that the first meeting was over , and to give her the impression of his not being improved by the mixture of pique and pretension , now spread over his air . 
She was , in fact , beginning very much to wonder that she had ever thought him pleasing at all ; and his sight was so inseparably connected with some very disagreeable feelings , that except in a moral light , as a penance , a lesson , a source of profitable humiliation to her own mind , she would have been thankful to be assured of never seeing him again . 
She wished him very well ; but he gave her pain , and his welfare twenty miles off would administer most satisfaction . 
Of the lady , individually , Emma thought very little . 
She was good enough for Mr. Elton , no doubt ; accomplished enough for Highbury -- handsome enough -- to look plain , probably , by Harriet 's side . 
As to connection , there Emma was perfectly easy ; persuaded , that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet , he had done nothing . 
Emma guessed him to be the drudge of some attorney , and too stupid to rise . 
Emma saw him only once ; but two or three times every day Harriet was sure just to meet with him , or just to miss him , just to hear his voice , or see his shoulder , just to have something occur to preserve him in her fancy , in all the favouring warmth of surprize and conjecture . 
Had it been allowable entertainment , had there been no pain to her friend , or reproach to herself , in the waverings of Harriet 's mind , Emma would have been amused by its variations . 
While he staid , the Martins were forgotten ; and on the very morning of his setting off for Bath again , Emma , to dissipate some of the distress it occasioned , judged it best for her to return Elizabeth Martin 's visit . 
She went , however ; and when they reached the farm , and she was to be put down , at the end of the broad , neat gravel-walk , which led between espalier apple-trees to the front door , the sight of every thing which had given her so much pleasure the autumn before , was beginning to revive a little local agitation ; and when they parted , Emma observed her to be looking around with a sort of fearful curiosity , which determined her not to allow the visit to exceed the proposed quarter of an hour . 
She went on herself , to give that portion of time to an old servant who was married , and settled in Donwell . 
The quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again ; and Miss Smith receiving her summons , was with her without delay , and unattended by any alarming young man . 
She was feeling too much ; but at last Emma collected from her enough to understand the sort of meeting , and the sort of pain it was creating . 
She had seen only Mrs. Martin and the two girls . 
They had received her doubtingly , if not coolly ; and nothing beyond the merest common-place had been talked almost all the time -- till just at last , when Mrs. Martin 's saying , all of a sudden , that she thought Miss Smith was grown , had brought on a more interesting subject , and a warmer manner . 
They all seemed to remember the day , the hour , the party , the occasion -- to feel the same consciousness , the same regrets -- to be ready to return to the same good understanding ; and they were just growing again like themselves , -LRB- Harriet , as Emma must suspect , as ready as the best of them to be cordial and happy , -RRB- when the carriage re-appeared , and all was over . 
Fourteen minutes to be given to those with whom she had thankfully passed six weeks not six months ago ! 
-- Emma could not but picture it all , and feel how justly they might resent , how naturally Harriet must suffer . 
`` This is too bad , '' cried Emma , as they turned away . 
And she leaned back in the corner , to indulge her murmurs , or to reason them away ; probably a little of both -- such being the commonest process of a not ill-disposed mind . 
Presently the carriage stopt ; she looked up ; it was stopt by Mr. and Mrs. Weston , who were standing to speak to her . 
To know that she thought his coming certain was enough to make Emma consider it so , and sincerely did she rejoice in their joy . 
The worn-out past was sunk in the freshness of what was coming ; and in the rapidity of half a moment 's thought , she hoped Mr. Elton would now be talked of no more . 
Mr. Weston gave her the history of the engagements at Enscombe , which allowed his son to answer for having an entire fortnight at his command , as well as the route and the method of his journey ; and she listened , and smiled , and congratulated . 
Emma could imagine she saw a touch of the arm at this speech , from his wife . 
`` Well , well , I am ready ; '' -- and turning again to Emma , `` but you must not be expecting such a very fine young man ; you have only had my account you know ; I dare say he is really nothing extraordinary : '' -- though his own sparkling eyes at the moment were speaking a very different conviction . 
Emma could look perfectly unconscious and innocent , and answer in a manner that appropriated nothing . 
`` Think of me to-morrow , my dear Emma , about four o'clock , '' was Mrs. Weston 's parting injunction ; spoken with some anxiety , and meant only for her . 
Emma 's spirits were mounted quite up to happiness ; every thing wore a different air ; James and his horses seemed not half so sluggish as before . 
When she looked at the hedges , she thought the elder at least must soon be coming out ; and when she turned round to Harriet , she saw something like a look of spring , a tender smile even there . 
But neither geography nor tranquility could come all at once , and Emma was now in a humour to resolve that they should both come in time . 
Emma was directly sure that he knew how to make himself agreeable ; the conviction was strengthened by what followed . 
That he should never have been able to indulge so amiable a feeling before , passed suspiciously through Emma 's brain ; but still if it were a falsehood , it was a pleasant one , and pleasantly handled . 
`` You can not see too much perfection in Mrs. Weston for my feelings , '' said Emma ; `` were you to guess her to be eighteen , I should listen with pleasure ; but she would be ready to quarrel with you for using such words . 
Emma wondered whether the same suspicion of what might be expected from their knowing each other , which had taken strong possession of her mind , had ever crossed his ; and whether his compliments were to be considered as marks of acquiescence , or proofs of defiance . 
She must see more of him to understand his ways ; at present she only felt they were agreeable . 
She had no doubt of what Mr. Weston was often thinking about . 
His quick eye she detected again and again glancing towards them with a happy expression ; and even , when he might have determined not to look , she was confident that he was often listening . 
Her own father 's perfect exemption from any thought of the kind , the entire deficiency in him of all such sort of penetration or suspicion , was a most comfortable circumstance . 
She blessed the favouring blindness . 
I have the honour of being acquainted with a neighbour of yours , -LRB- turning to Emma , -RRB- a lady residing in or near Highbury ; a family of the name of Fairfax . 
`` I have heard her speak of the acquaintance , '' said Emma , `` she is a very elegant young woman . '' 
He agreed to it , but with so quiet a `` Yes , '' as inclined her almost to doubt his real concurrence ; and yet there must be a very distinct sort of elegance for the fashionable world , if Jane Fairfax could be thought only ordinarily gifted with it . 
Emma remained very well pleased with this beginning of the acquaintance , and could now engage to think of them all at Randalls any hour of the day , with full confidence in their comfort . 
Emma had hardly expected them : for Mr. Weston , who had called in for half a minute , in order to hear that his son was very handsome , knew nothing of their plans ; and it was an agreeable surprize to her , therefore , to perceive them walking up to the house together , arm in arm . 
She was wanting to see him again , and especially to see him in company with Mrs. Weston , upon his behaviour to whom her opinion of him was to depend . 
And there was time enough for Emma to form a reasonable judgment , as their visit included all the rest of the morning . 
He was delighted with every thing ; admired Hartfield sufficiently for Mr. Woodhouse 's ear ; and when their going farther was resolved on , confessed his wish to be made acquainted with the whole village , and found matter of commendation and interest much oftener than Emma could have supposed . 
Emma watched and decided , that with such feelings as were now shewn , it could not be fairly supposed that he had been ever voluntarily absenting himself ; that he had not been acting a part , or making a parade of insincere professions ; and that Mr. Knightley certainly had not done him justice . 
He argued like a young man very much bent on dancing ; and Emma was rather surprized to see the constitution of the Weston prevail so decidedly against the habits of the Churchills . 
At last he was persuaded to move on from the front of the Crown ; and being now almost facing the house where the Bateses lodged , Emma recollected his intended visit the day before , and asked him if he had paid it . 
Emma would not agree to this , and began a warm defence of Miss Fairfax 's complexion . 
`` Well , '' said Emma , `` there is no disputing about taste . 
`` You get upon delicate subjects , Emma , '' said Mrs. Weston smiling , `` remember that I am here . 
`` I certainly do forget to think of her , '' said Emma , `` as having ever been anything but my friend and my dearest friend . '' 
repeated Emma . 
said Emma , highly amused . 
said Emma , laughing . 
He perfectly agreed with her : and after walking together so long , and thinking so much alike , Emma felt herself so well acquainted with him , that she could hardly believe it to be only their second meeting . 
He was not exactly what she had expected ; less of the man of the world in some of his notions , less of the spoiled child of fortune , therefore better than she had expected . 
She was particularly struck by his manner of considering Mr. Elton 's house , which , as well as the church , he would go and look at , and would not join them in finding much fault with . 
But Emma , in her own mind , determined that he did know what he was talking about , and that he shewed a very amiable inclination to settle early in life , and to marry , from worthy motives . 
Emma 's very good opinion of Frank Churchill was a little shaken the following day , by hearing that he was gone off to London , merely to have his hair cut . 
With the exception of this little blot , Emma found that his visit hitherto had given her friend only good ideas of him . 
The circumstance was told him at Hartfield ; for the moment , he was silent ; but Emma heard him almost immediately afterwards say to himself , over a newspaper he held in his hand , `` Hum ! 
She had half a mind to resent ; but an instant 's observation convinced her that it was really said only to relieve his own feelings , and not meant to provoke ; and therefore she let it pass . 
Something occurred while they were at Hartfield , to make Emma want their advice ; and , which was still more lucky , she wanted exactly the advice they gave . 
The regular and best families Emma could hardly suppose they would presume to invite -- neither Donwell , nor Hartfield , nor Randalls . 
As for his going , Emma did not wish him to think it possible ; the hours would be too late , and the party too numerous . 
No more is Emma . 
However , as they are so very desirous to have dear Emma dine with them , and as you will both be there , and Mr. Knightley too , to take care of her , I can not wish to prevent it , provided the weather be what it ought , neither damp , nor cold , nor windy . '' 
He had a great regard for Mrs. Goddard ; and Emma should write a line , and invite her . 
`` But , my dear sir , '' cried Mr. Weston , `` if Emma comes away early , it will be breaking up the party . '' 
Emma 's going away directly after tea might be giving offence . 
My dear Emma , we must consider this . 
He was quite as undaunted and as lively as ever ; and after seeing him , Emma thus moralized to herself : -- `` I do not know whether it ought to be so , but certainly silly things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way . 
With Tuesday came the agreeable prospect of seeing him again , and for a longer time than hitherto ; of judging of his general manners , and by inference , of the meaning of his manners towards herself ; of guessing how soon it might be necessary for her to throw coldness into her air ; and of fancying what the observations of all those might be , who were now seeing them together for the first time . 
She meant to be very happy , in spite of the scene being laid at Mr. Cole 's ; and without being able to forget that among the failings of Mr. Elton , even in the days of his favour , none had disturbed her more than his propensity to dine with Mr. Cole . 
Her father 's comfort was amply secured , Mrs. Bates as well as Mrs. Goddard being able to come ; and her last pleasing duty , before she left the house , was to pay her respects to them as they sat together after dinner ; and while her father was fondly noticing the beauty of her dress , to make the two ladies all the amends in her power , by helping them to large slices of cake and full glasses of wine , for whatever unwilling self-denial his care of their constitution might have obliged them to practise during the meal . 
She followed another carriage to Mr. Cole 's door ; and was pleased to see that it was Mr. Knightley 's ; for Mr. Knightley keeping no horses , having little spare money and a great deal of health , activity , and independence , was too apt , in Emma 's opinion , to get about as he could , and not use his carriage so often as became the owner of Donwell Abbey . 
She had an opportunity now of speaking her approbation while warm from her heart , for he stopped to hand her out . 
`` This is coming as you should do , '' said she , `` like a gentleman . 
He thanked her , observing , `` How lucky that we should arrive at the same moment ! 
Emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the party as with Mr. Knightley . 
She was received with a cordial respect which could not but please , and given all the consequence she could wish for . 
When the Westons arrived , the kindest looks of love , the strongest of admiration were for her , from both husband and wife ; the son approached her with a cheerful eagerness which marked her as his peculiar object , and at dinner she found him seated by her -- and , as she firmly believed , not without some dexterity on his side . 
The less worthy females were to come in the evening , with Miss Bates , Miss Fairfax , and Miss Smith ; but already , at dinner , they were too numerous for any subject of conversation to be general ; and while politics and Mr. Elton were talked over , Emma could fairly surrender all her attention to the pleasantness of her neighbour . 
The first remote sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend , was the name of Jane Fairfax . 
That very dear part of Emma , her fancy , received an amusing supply . 
Mrs. Cole had many to agree with her ; every body who spoke on the subject was equally convinced that it must come from Col. Campbell , and equally rejoiced that such a present had been made ; and there were enough ready to speak to allow Emma to think her own way , and still listen to Mrs. Cole . 
They were called on to share in the awkwardness of a rather long interval between the courses , and obliged to be as formal and as orderly as the others ; but when the table was again safely covered , when every corner dish was placed exactly right , and occupation and ease were generally restored , Emma said , `` The arrival of this pianoforté is decisive with me . 
She said no more , other subjects took their turn ; and the rest of the dinner passed away ; the dessert succeeded , the children came in , and were talked to and admired amid the usual rate of conversation ; a few clever things said , a few downright silly , but by much the larger proportion neither the one nor the other -- nothing worse than every day remarks , dull repetitions , old news , and heavy jokes . 
Emma watched the entrée of her own particular little friend ; and if she could not exult in her dignity and grace , she could not only love the blooming sweetness and the artless manner , but could most heartily rejoice in that light , cheerful , unsentimental disposition which allowed her so many alleviations of pleasure , in the midst of the pangs of disappointed affection . 
There she sat -- and who would have guessed how many tears she had been lately shedding ? 
Jane Fairfax did look and move superior ; but Emma suspected she might have been glad to change feelings with Harriet , very glad to have purchased the mortification of having loved -- yes , of having loved even Mr. Elton in vain -- by the surrender of all the dangerous pleasure of knowing herself beloved by the husband of her friend . 
In so large a party it was not necessary that Emma should approach her . 
She did not wish to speak of the pianoforté , she felt too much in the secret herself , to think the appearance of curiosity or interest fair , and therefore purposely kept at a distance ; but by the others , the subject was almost immediately introduced , and she saw the blush of consciousness with which congratulations were received , the blush of guilt which accompanied the name of `` my excellent friend Col. Campbell . '' 
Mrs. Weston , kind-hearted and musical , was particularly interested by the circumstance , and Emma could not help being amused at her perseverance in dwelling on the subject ; and having so much to ask and to say as to tone , touch , and pedal , totally unsuspicious of that wish of saying as little about it as possible , which she plainly read in the fair heroine 's countenance . 
Emma divined what every body present must be thinking . 
She was his object , and every body must perceive it . 
She introduced him to her friend , Miss Smith , and , at convenient moments afterwards , heard what each thought of the other . 
And she , -- `` Only to be sure it was paying him too great a compliment , but she did think there were some looks a little like Mr. Elton . '' 
Emma restrained her indignation , and only turned from her in silence . 
Smiles of intelligence passed between her and the gentleman on first glancing towards Miss Fairfax ; but it was most prudent to avoid speech . 
He told her that he had been impatient to leave the dining-room -- hated sitting long -- was always the first to move when he could -- that his father , Mr. Knightley , Mr. Cox , and Mr. Cole , were left very busy over parish business -- that as long as he had staid , however , it had been pleasant enough , as he found them in general a set of gentlemen-like , sensible men ; and spoke so handsomely of Highbury altogether -- thought it so abundant in agreeable families -- that Emma began to feel she had been used to despise the place rather too much . 
She questioned him as to the society in Yorkshire -- the extent of the neighbourhood about Enscombe , and the sort ; and could make out from his answers that , as far as Enscombe was concerned , there was very little going on ; that their visitings were among a range of great families , none very near ; and that even when days were fixed , and invitations accepted , it was an even chance that Mrs. Churchill were not in health or spirits for going ; that they made a point of visiting no fresh person ; and that , though he had his separate engagements , it was not without difficulty , without considerable address at times , that he could get away , or introduce an acquaintance for a night . 
The unpersuadable point , which he did not mention , Emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father . 
The rest of the gentlemen being now in the room , Emma found herself obliged to turn from him for a few minutes , and listen to Mr. Cole . 
When Mr. Cole had moved away , and her attention could be restored as before , she saw Frank Churchill looking intently across the room at Miss Fairfax , who was sitting exactly opposite . 
said she . 
He was gone immediately ; and Emma soon saw him standing before Miss Fairfax , and talking to her ; but as to its effect on the young lady , as he had improvidently placed himself exactly between them , exactly in front of Miss Fairfax , she could absolutely distinguish nothing . 
My dear Emma , I am longing to talk to you . 
`` Very likely , '' said Emma -- `` nothing more likely . 
exclaimed Emma . 
`` My dear Emma , I have told you what led me to think of it . 
`` My dear Emma , as long as he thinks so , it is so ; but if he really loves Jane Fairfax -- -- '' `` Nonsense ! 
''' `` For shame , Emma ! 
Do not mimic her . 
`` There might be scruples of delicacy , my dear Emma . 
They combated the point some time longer in the same way ; Emma rather gaining ground over the mind of her friend ; for Mrs. Weston was the most used of the two to yield ; till a little bustle in the room shewed them that tea was over , and the instrument in preparation ; -- and at the same moment Mr. Cole approaching to entreat Miss Woodhouse would do them the honour of trying it . 
Frnak Churchill , of whom , in the eagerness of her conversation with Mrs. Weston , she had been seeing nothing , except that he had found a seat by Miss Fairfax , followed Mr. Cole , to add his very pressing entreaties ; and as , in every respect , it suited Emma best to lead , she gave a very proper compliance . 
She knew the limitations of her own powers too well to attempt more than she could perform with credit ; she wanted neither taste nor spirit in the little things which are generally acceptable , and could accompany her own voice well . 
One accompaniment to her song took her agreeably by surprize -- a second , slightly but correctly taken by Frank Churchill . 
Her pardon was duly begged at the close of the song , and every thing usual followed . 
They sang together once more ; and Emma would then resign her place to Miss Fairfax , whose performance , both vocal and instrumental , she never could attempt to conceal from herself , was infinitely superior to her own . 
With mixed feelings , she seated herself at a little distance from the numbers round the instrument , to listen . 
But the sight of Mr. Knightley among the most attentive , soon drew away half Emma 's mind ; and she fell into a train of thinking on the subject of Mrs. Weston 's suspicions , to which the sweet sounds of the united voices gave only momentary interruptions . 
From that moment , Emma could have taken her oath that Mr. Knightley had had no concern in giving the instrument . 
Mrs. Weston , capital in her country-dances , was seated , and beginning an irresistible waltz ; and Frank Churchill , coming up with most becoming gallantry to Emma , had secured her hand , and led her up to the top . 
While waiting till the other young people could pair themselves off , Emma found time , in spite of the compliments she was receiving on her voice and her taste , to look about , and see what became of Mr. Knightley . 
Emma had no longer an alarm for Henry ; his interest was yet safe ; and she led off the dance with genuine spirit and enjoyment . 
Not more than five couple could be mustered ; but the rarity and the suddenness of it made it very delightful , and she found herself well matched in a partner . 
`` Perhaps it is as well , '' said Frank Churchill , as he attended Emma to her carriage . 
Emma did not repent her condescension in going to the Coles . 
The visit afforded her many pleasant recollections the next day ; and all that she might be supposed to have lost on the side of dignified seclusion , must be amply repaid in the splendour of popularity . 
She must have delighted the Coles -- worthy people , who deserved to be made happy ! 
-- And left a name behind her that would not soon die away . 
Perfect happiness , even in memory , is not common ; and there were two points on which she was not quite easy . 
She doubted whether she had not transgressed the duty of woman by woman , in betraying her suspicions of Jane Fairfax 's feelings to Frank Churchill . 
It was hardly right ; but it had been so strong an idea , that it would escape her , and his submission to all that she told , was a compliment to her penetration which made it difficult for her to be quite certain that she ought to have held her tongue . 
Emma was obliged to ask what they had told her , though fearful of its producing Mr. Elton . 
-- Emma thought it most prudent to go with her . 
Another accidental meeting with the Martins was possible , and , in her present state , would be dangerous . 
Harriet , tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word , was always very long at a purchase ; and while she was still hanging over muslins and changing her mind , Emma went to the door for amusement . 
-- Much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the busiest part of Highbury ; -- Mr. Perry walking hastily by , Mr. William Cox letting himself in at the office door , Mr. Cole 's carriage horses returning from exercise , or a stray letter-boy on an obstinate mule , were the liveliest objects she could presume to expect ; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray , a tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket , two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone , and a string of dawdling children round the baker 's little bow-window eyeing the gingerbread , she knew she had no reason to complain , and was amused enough ; quite enough still to stand at the door . 
They were stopping , however , in the first place at Mrs. Bates 's ; whose house was a little nearer Randalls than Ford 's ; and had all but knocked , when Emma caught their eye . 
-- Immediately they crossed the road and came forward to her ; and the agreeableness of yesterday 's engagement seemed to give fresh pleasure to the present meeting . 
`` I am here on no business of my own , '' said Emma , `` I am only waiting for my friend . 
`` I do not believe any such thing , '' replied Emma . 
Emma watched them in , and then joined Harriet at the interesting counter , -- trying , with all the force of her own mind , to convince her that if she wanted plain muslin it was of no use to look at figured ; and that a blue ribbon , be it ever so beautiful , would still never match her yellow pattern . 
Emma would be `` very happy to wait on Mrs. Bates , & c. '' and they did at last move out of the shop , with no further delay from Miss Bates than , `` How do you do , Mrs. Ford ? 
Emma wondered on what , of all the medley , she would fix . 
Busy as he was , however , the young man was yet able to shew a most happy countenance on seeing Emma again . 
That she was not immediately ready , Emma did suspect to arise from the state of her nerves ; she had not yet possessed the instrument long enough to touch it without emotion ; she must reason herself into the power of performance ; and Emma could not but pity such feelings , whatever their origin , and could not but resolve never to expose them to her neighbour again . 
Mrs. Weston had been delighted before , and was delighted again ; Emma joined her in all her praise ; and the pianoforté , with every proper discrimination , was pronounced to be altogether of the highest promise . 
`` Whoever Col. Campbell might employ , '' said Frank Churchill , with a smile at Emma , `` the person has not chosen ill . 
`` It is not fair , '' said Emma in a whisper , `` mine was a random guess . 
She could not but hear ; she could not avoid answering , `` Till I have a letter from Col. Campbell , '' said she , in a voice of forced calmness , `` I can imagine nothing with any confidence . 
He took some music from a chair near the pianoforté , and turning to Emma , said , `` Here is something quite new to me . 
Emma wished he would be less pointed , yet could not help being amused ; and when on glancing her eye towards Jane Fairfax she caught the remains of a smile , when she saw that with all the deep blush of consciousness , there had been a smile of secret delight , she had less scruple in the amusement , and much less compunction with respect to her . 
-- Emma took the opportunity of whispering , `` You speak too plain . 
The listeners were amused ; and Mrs. Weston gave Emma a look of particular meaning . 
But Emma still shook her head in steady scepticism . 
Emma found it really time to be at home ; the visit had already lasted long ; and on examining watches , so much of the morning was perceived to be gone , that Mrs. Weston and her companion taking leave also , could allow themselves only to walk with the two young ladies to Hartfield gates , before they set off for Randalls . 
Emma said it would be awkward ; Mrs. Weston was in distress about the supper ; and Mr. Woodhouse opposed it earnestly , on the score of health . 
I could not bear it for Emma ! 
-- Emma is not strong . 
She would catch a dreadful cold . 
Emma demurred . 
`` No , no , '' said she , `` you are quite unreasonable . 
Emma perceived that the nature of his gallantry was a little self-willed , and that he would rather oppose than lose the pleasure of dancing with her ; but she took the compliment , and forgave the rest . 
Had she intended ever to marry him , it might have been worth while to pause and consider , and try to understand the value of his preference , and the character of his temper ; but for all the purposes of their acquaintance , he was quite amiable enough . 
She was obliged to repeat and explain it , before it was fully comprehended ; and then , being quite new , further representations were necessary to make it acceptable . 
interrupted Emma , `` there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over . 
Poor little Emma ! 
Emma was most happy to be called to such a council ; and her father , engaging to think it all over while she was gone , the two young people set off together without delay for the Crown . 
`` Emma , '' said she , `` this paper is worse than I expected . 
Mrs. Weston was afraid of draughts for the young people in that passage ; and neither Emma nor the gentlemen could tolerate the prospect of being miserably crowded at supper . 
`` You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates , '' said Emma . 
The party did not break up without Emma 's being positively secured for the two first dances by the hero of the evening , nor without her overhearing Mr. Weston whisper to his wife , `` He has asked her , my dear . 
One thing only was wanting to make the prospect of the ball completely satisfactory to Emma -- its being fixed for a day within the granted term of Frank Churchill 's stay in Surry ; for , in spite of Mr. Weston 's confidence , she could not think it so very impossible that the Churchills might not allow their nephew to remain a day beyond his fortnight . 
The preparations must take their time , nothing could be properly ready till the third week were entered on , and for a few days they must be planning , proceeding and hoping in uncertainty -- at the risk -- in her opinion , the great risk , of its being all in vain . 
All was safe and prosperous ; and as the removal of one solicitude generally makes way for another , Emma , being now certain of her ball , began to adopt as the next vexation Mr. Knightley 's provoking indifference about it . 
To her voluntary communications Emma could get no more approving reply , than , `` Very well . 
This Emma felt was aimed at her ; and it made her quite angry . 
The substance of this letter was forwarded to Emma , in a note from Mrs. Weston , instantly . 
This wretched note was the finalé of Emma 's breakfast . 
and she and her partner the happiest ! 
Her father 's feelings were quite distinct . 
He thought principally of Mrs. Churchill 's illness , and wanted to know how she was treated ; and as for the ball , it was shocking to have dear Emma disappointed ; but they would all be safer at home . 
Emma was ready for her visitor some time before he appeared ; but if this reflected at all upon his impatience , his sorrowful look and total want of spirits when he did come might redeem him . 
`` But you will come again , '' said Emma . 
Emma looked graciously . 
`` As you do us such ample justice now , '' said Emma , laughing , `` I will venture to ask , whether you did not come a little doubtingly at first ? 
He laughed rather consciously ; and though denying the sentiment , Emma was convinced that it had been so . 
`` In short , '' said he , `` perhaps , Miss Woodhouse -- -- I think you can hardly be quite without suspicion '' -- He looked at her , as if wanting to read her thoughts . 
She hardly knew what to say . 
It seemed like the forerunner of something absolutely serious , which she did not wish . 
Forcing herself to speak , therefore , in the hope of putting it by , she calmly said , `` You were quite in the right ; it was most natural to pay your visit , then '' -- He was silent . 
She believed he was looking at her ; probably reflecting on what she had said , and trying to understand the manner . 
She heard him sigh . 
He could not believe her to be encouraging him . 
-- He was more in love with her than Emma had supposed ; and who can say how it might have ended , if his father had not made his appearance ? 
Short had been the notice -- short their meeting ; he was gone ; and Emma felt so sorry to part , and foresaw so great a loss to their little society from his absence as to begin to be afraid of being too sorry , and feeling it too much . 
He could not say that he was sorry on his own account ; his very cheerful look would have contradicted him if he had ; but he said , and very steadily , that he was sorry for the disappointment of the others , and with considerable kindness added , `` You , Emma , who have so few opportunities of dancing , you are really out of luck ; you are very much out of luck ! '' 
Emma continued to entertain no doubt of her being in love . 
Her ideas only varied as to the how much . 
At first , she thought it was a good deal ; and afterwards , but little . 
She had great pleasure in hearing Frank Churchill talked of ; and , for his sake , greater pleasure than ever in seeing Mr. and Mrs. Weston ; she was very often thinking of him , and quite impatient for a letter , that she might know how he was , how were his spirits , how was his aunt , and what was the chance of his coming to Randalls again this spring . 
When his letter to Mrs. Weston arrived , Emma had the perusal of it ; and she read it with a degree of pleasure and admiration which made her at first shake her head over her own sensations , and think she had undervalued their strength . 
This , Emma could not doubt , was all for herself . 
Emma grew sick at the sound . 
She had had three weeks of happy exemption from Mr. Elton ; and Harriet 's mind , she had been willing to hope , had been lately gaining strength . 
Poor Harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind that Emma could give . 
Emma felt that she could not do too much for her , that Harriet had a right to all her ingenuity and all her patience ; but it was heavy work to be for ever convincing without producing any effect , for ever agreed to , without being able to make their opinions the same . 
-- At last Emma attacked her on another ground . 
Emma continued , `` I have not said , exert yourself Harriet for my sake ; think less , talk less of Mr. Elton for my sake ; because for your own sake rather , I would wish it to be done , for the sake of what is more important than my comfort , a habit of self-command in you , a consideration of what is your duty , an attention to propriety , an endeavour to avoid the suspicions of others , to save your health and credit , and restore your tranquillity . 
This appeal to her affections did more than all the rest . 
Such expressions , assisted as they were by every thing that look and manner could do , made Emma feel that she had never loved Harriet so well , nor valued her affection so highly before . 
I mention no names ; but happy the man who changes Emma for Harriet ! '' 
Emma had feelings , less of curiosity than of pride or propriety , to make her resolve on not being the last to pay her respects ; and she made a point of Harriet 's going with her , that the worst of the business might be gone through as soon as possible . 
The visit was of course short ; and there was so much embarrassment and occupation of mind to shorten it , that Emma would not allow herself entirely to form an opinion of the lady , and on no account to give one , beyond the nothing-meaning terms of being `` elegantly dressed , and very pleasing . '' 
She did not really like her . 
She would not be in a hurry to find fault , but she suspected that there was no elegance ; -- ease , but not elegance . 
-- She was almost sure that for a young woman , a stranger , a bride , there was too much ease . 
Emma thought at least it would turn out so . 
As for Mr. Elton , his manners did not appear -- but no , she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners . 
There was a little hesitation in Emma 's answer . 
When the visit was returned , Emma made up her mind . 
She could then see more and judge better . 
Emma made as slight a reply as she could ; but it was fully sufficient for Mrs. Elton , who only wanted to be talking herself . 
Emma doubted the truth of this sentiment . 
She had a great idea that people who had extensive grounds themselves cared very little for the extensive grounds of any body else ; but it was not worth while to attack an error so double-dyed , and therefore only said in reply , `` When you have seen more of this country , I am afraid you will think you have over-rated Hartfield . 
Emma was silenced . 
It was as much as Emma could bear , without being impolite . 
The idea of her being indebted to Mrs. Elton for what was called an introduction -- of her going into public under the auspices of a friend of Mrs. Elton 's , probably some vulgar , dashing widow , who , with the help of a boarder , just made a shift to live ! 
''' `` We can not suppose , '' said Emma , smiling , `` that Mr. Elton would hesitate to assure you of there being a very musical society in Highbury ; and I hope you will not find he has outstepped the truth more than may be pardoned , in consideration of the motive . '' 
`` But every thing of that kind , '' said Emma , `` will soon be in so regular a train -- '' `` Well , '' said Mrs. Elton , laughing , `` we shall see . '' 
Emma , finding her so determined upon neglecting her music , had nothing more to say ; and , after a moment 's pause , Mrs. Elton chose another subject . 
Emma was almost too much astonished to answer ; but Mrs. Elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on . 
`` Mrs. Weston 's manners , '' said Emma , `` were always particularly good . 
Emma was quite at a loss . 
The tone implied some old acquaintance -- and how could she possibly guess ? 
They were off ; and Emma could breathe . 
was her immediate exclamation . 
-- All this ran so glibly through her thoughts , that by the time her father had arranged himself , after the bustle of the Eltons ' departure , and was ready to speak , she was very tolerably capable of attending . 
Emma had done . 
Her father was growing nervous , and could not understand her . 
Her mind returned to Mrs. Elton 's offences , and long , very long , did they occupy her . 
Emma was not required , by any subsequent discovery , to retract her ill opinion of Mrs. Elton . 
Her feelings altered towards Emma . 
-- Offended , probably , by the little encouragement which her proposals of intimacy met with , she drew back in her turn and gradually became much more cold and distant ; and though the effect was agreeable , the ill-will which produced it was necessarily increasing Emma 's dislike . 
Her manners too -- and Mr. Elton 's , were unpleasant towards Harriet . 
Emma hoped it must rapidly work Harriet 's cure ; but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk them both very much . 
-- Before Emma had forfeited her confidence , and about the third time of their meeting , she heard all Mrs. Elton 's knight-errantry on the subject . 
`` I can not think there is any danger of it , '' was Emma 's calm answer -- `` and when you are better acquainted with Miss Fairfax 's situation and understand what her home has been , with Col. and Mrs. Campbell , I have no idea that you will suppose her talents can be unknown . '' 
-- thought Emma . 
Let me not suppose that she dares go about , Emma Woodhouse-ing me ! 
Emma had not to listen to such paradings again -- to any so exclusively addressed to herself -- so disgustingly decorated with a `` dear Miss Woodhouse . '' 
Emma 's only surprize was that Jane Fairfax should accept those attentions and tolerate Mrs. Elton as she seemed to do . 
`` She must have some motive , more powerful than appears , for refusing this invitation , '' was Emma 's conclusion . 
Upon her speaking her wonder aloud on that part of the subject , before the few who knew her opinion of Mrs. Elton , Mrs. Weston ventured this apology for Jane . 
`` We can not suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the Vicarage , my dear Emma -- but it is better than being always at home . 
Her aunt is a good creature , but , as a constant companion , must be very tiresome . 
We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits , before we condemn her taste for what she goes to . '' 
But -LRB- with a reproachful smile at Emma -RRB- she receives attentions from Mrs. Elton , which nobody else pays her . '' 
Emma felt that Mrs. Weston was giving her a momentary glance ; and she was herself struck by his warmth . 
`` I know how highly you think of Jane Fairfax , '' said Emma . 
Little Henry was in her thoughts , and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made her irresolute what else to say . 
`` And yet , '' said Emma , beginning hastily and with an arch look , but soon stopping -- it was better , however , to know the worst at once -- she hurried on -- `` And yet , perhaps , you may hardly be aware yourself how highly it is . 
-- Emma felt her foot pressed by Mrs. Weston , and did not herself know what to think . 
Emma returned her friend 's pressure with interest ; and was pleased enough to exclaim , `` You are not vain , Mr. Knightley . 
He seemed hardly to hear her ; he was thoughtful -- and in a manner which shewed him not pleased , soon afterwards said , `` So you have been settling that I should marry Jane Fairfax . '' 
The result of his reverie was , `` No , Emma , I do not think the extent of my admiration for her will ever take me by surprize . 
-- I never had a thought of her in that way , I assure you . '' 
Emma could not but rejoice to hear that she had a fault . 
`` Well , '' said she , `` and you soon silenced Mr. Cole , I supposed ? '' 
`` Well , Mrs. Weston , '' said Emma triumphantly when he left them , `` what do you say now to Mr. Knightley 's marrying Jane Fairfax ? '' 
`` Why really , dear Emma , I say that he is so very much occupied by the idea of not being in love with her , that I should not wonder if it were to end in his being so at last . 
Emma , in the meanwhile , could not be satisfied without a dinner at Hartfield for the Eltons . 
They must not do less than others , or she should be exposed to odious suspicions , and imagined capable of pitiful resentment . 
After Emma had talked about it for ten minutes , Mr. Woodhouse felt no unwillingness , and only made the usual stipulation of not sitting at the bottom of the table himself , with the usual regular difficulty of deciding who should do it for him . 
Besides the Eltons , it must be the Westons and Mr. Knightley ; so far it was all of course -- and it was hardly less inevitable that poor little Harriet must be asked to make the eighth : -- but this invitation was not given with equal satisfaction , and on many accounts Emma was particularly pleased by Harriet 's begging to be allowed to decline it . 
It was precisely what Emma would have wished , had she deemed it possible enough for wishing . 
She was delighted with the fortitude of her little friend -- for fortitude she knew it was in her to give up being in company and stay at home ; and she could now invite the very person whom she really wanted to make the eighth , Jane Fairfax . 
Mr. Woodhouse considered eight persons at dinner together as the utmost that his nerves could bear -- and here would be a ninth -- and Emma apprehended that it would be a ninth very much out of humour at not being able to come even to Hartfield for forty-eight hours without falling in with a dinner-party . 
She comforted her father better than she could comfort herself , by representing that though he certainly would make them nine , yet he always said so little , that the increase of noise would be very immaterial . 
She thought it in reality a sad exchange for herself , to have him with his grave looks and reluctant conversation opposed to her instead of his brother . 
The event was more favourable to Mr. Woodhouse than to Emma . 
Mr. Woodhouse was quite at ease ; and the seeing him so , with the arrival of the little boys and the philosophic composure of her brother on hearing his fate , removed the chief of even Emma 's vexation . 
Isabella and Emma , I think , do write very much alike . 
I know what you mean -- but Emma 's hand is the strongest . '' 
`` Isabella and Emma both write beautifully , '' said Mr. Woodhouse ; `` and always did . 
`` I never saw any gentleman 's hand-writing '' -- Emma began , looking also at Mrs. Weston ; but stopped , on perceiving that Mrs. Weston was attending to some one else -- and the pause gave her time to reflect , `` Now , how am I going to introduce him ? 
Mrs. Weston was disengaged and Emma began again -- `` Mr. Frank Churchill writes one of the best gentlemen 's hands I ever saw . '' 
No , she had heard from him very lately , but having answered the letter , had put it away . 
`` If we were in the other room , '' said Emma , `` if I had my writing-desk , I am sure I could produce a specimen . 
Jane 's solicitude about fetching her own letters had not escaped Emma . 
She had heard and seen it all ; and felt some curiosity to know whether the wet walk of this morning had produced any . 
She suspected that it had ; that it would not have been so resolutely encountered but in full expectation of hearing from some one very dear , and that it had not been in vain . 
She thought there was an air of greater happiness than usual -- a glow both of complexion and spirits . 
She could have made an inquiry or two , as to the expedition and the expense of the Irish mails ; -- it was at her tongue 's end -- but she abstained . 
She was quite determined not to utter a word that should hurt Jane Fairfax 's feelings ; and they followed the other ladies out of the room , arm in arm , with an appearance of good-will highly becoming to the beauty and grace of each . 
When the ladies returned to the drawing-room after dinner , Emma found it hardly possible to prevent their making two distinct parties ; -- with so much perseverance in judging and behaving ill did Mrs. Elton engross Jane Fairfax and slight herself . 
In this style she ran on ; never thoroughly stopped by anything till Mr. Woodhouse came into the room ; her vanity had then a change of object , and Emma heard her saying in the same half-whisper to Jane , `` Here comes this dear old beau of mine , I protest ! 
`` Read it , read it , '' said he , `` it will give you pleasure ; only a few lines -- will not take you long ; read it to Emma . '' 
Has Emma read it all ? 
Her congratulations were warm and open ; but Emma could not speak so fluently . 
She was a little occupied in weighing her own feelings , and trying to understand the degree of her agitation , which she rather thought was considerable . 
Mr. Weston , however , too eager to be very observant , too communicative to want others to talk , was very well satisfied with what she did say , and soon moved away to make the rest of his friends happy by a partial communication of what the whole room must have overheard already . 
They were the first entitled , after Mrs. Weston and Emma , to be made happy ; -- from them he would have proceeded to Miss Fairfax , but she was so deep in conversation with John Knightley , that it would have been too positive an interruption ; and finding himself close to Mrs. Elton , and her attention disengaged , he necessarily began on the subject with her . 
The remaining five were left to their own powers , and Emma doubted their getting on very well ; for Mr. Knightley seemed little disposed for conversation ; Mrs. Elton was wanting notice , which nobody had inclination to pay , and she was herself in a worry of spirits which would have made her prefer being silent . 
He was to leave them early the next day ; and he soon began with -- `` Well , Emma , I do not believe I have anything more to say about the boys ; but you have your sister 's letter , and every thing is down at full length there we may be sure . 
`` I rather hope to satisfy you both , '' said Emma , `` for I shall do all in my power to make them happy , which will be enough for Isabella ; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and physic . '' 
`` Very well -- and as Randalls , I suppose , is not likely to have less influence than heretofore , it strikes me as a possible thing , Emma , that Henry and John may be sometimes in the way . 
`` Upon my word , '' exclaimed Emma , `` you amuse me ! 
And as to my dear little boys , I must say , that if aunt Emma has not time for them , I do not think they would fare much better with uncle Knightley , who is absent from home about five hours where she is absent one -- and who , when he is at home , is either reading to himself or settling his accounts . '' 
A very little quiet reflection was enough to satisfy Emma as to the nature of her agitation on hearing this news of Frank Churchill . 
She was soon convinced that it was not for herself she was feeling at all apprehensive or embarrassed ; it was for him . 
Her own attachment had really subsided into a mere nothing ; it was not worth thinking of ; -- but if he , who had undoubtedly been always so much the most in love of the two , were to be returning with the same warmth of sentiment which he had taken away , it would be very distressing . 
If a separation of two months should not have cooled him , there were dangers and evils before her : -- caution for him and for herself would be necessary . 
She did not mean to have her own affections entangled again , and it would be incumbent on her to avoid any encouragement of his . 
She wished she might be able to kee him from an absolute declaration . 
-- and yet , she could not help rather anticipating something decisive . 
She felt as if the spring would not pass without bringing a crisis , an event , a something to alter her present composed and tranquil state . 
It was not very long , though rather longer than Mr. Weston had foreseen , before she had the power of forming some opinion of Frank Churchill 's feelings . 
He rode down for a couple of hours ; he could not yet do more ; but as he came from Randall 's immediately to Hartfield , she could then exercise all her quick observation , and speedily determine how he was influenced , and how she must act . 
There could be no doubt of his great pleasure in seeing her . 
But she had an almost instant doubt of his caring for her as he had done , of his feeling the same tenderness in the same degree . 
She watched him well . 
Absence , with the conviction probably of her indifference , had produced this very natural and very desirable effect . 
It was not in his calmness that she read his comparative indifference . 
Lively as he was , it seemed a liveliness that did not satisfy himself : but what decided her belief on the subject , was his staying only a quarter of an hour , and hurrying away to make other calls in Highbury . 
She had no doubt as to his being less in love -- but neither his agitated spirits , nor his hurrying away , seemed like a perfect cure ; and she was rather inclined to think it implied a dread of her returning power , and a discreet resolution of not trusting himself with her long . 
Emma heard that Frank wrote in the highest spirits of this arrangement , and seemed most fully to appreciate the blessing of having two months before him of such near neighbourhood to many dear friends -- for the house was taken for May and June . 
She was told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often with them , almost as often as he could even wish . 
Emma saw how Mr. Weston understood these joyous prospects . 
He was considering her as the source of all the happiness they offered . 
She hoped it was not so . 
Mrs. Bates was engaged to spend the evening at Hartfield , James had due notice , and he sanguinely hoped that neither dear little Henry nor dear little John would have any thing the matter with them , while dear Emma were gone . 
No second meeting had there yet been between him and Emma . 
Mr. Weston had been so very earnest in his entreaties for her early attendance , for her arriving there as soon as possible after themselves , for the purpose of taking her opinion as to the propriety and comfort of the rooms before any other persons came , that she could not refuse him , and must therefore spend some quiet interval in the young man 's company . 
She was to convey Harriet , and they drove to the Crown in good time , the Randalls ' party just sufficiently before them . 
They all walked about together , to see that every thing was as it should be ; and within a few minutes were joined by the contents of another carriage , which Emma could not hear the sound of at first , without great surprise . 
she was going to exclaim ; but she presently found that it was a family of old friends , who were coming , like herself , by particular desire , to help Mr. Weston 's judgement ; and they were so very closely followed by another carriage of cousins , who had been entreated to come early with the same distinguishing earnestness , on the same errand , that it seemed as if half the company might soon be collected together for the purpose of preparatory inspection . 
Emma perceived that her taste was not the only taste on which Mr. Weston depended , and felt , that to be the favourite and intimate of a man who had so many intimates and confidantes , was not the very first distinction in the scale of vanity . 
She liked his open manners , but a little less of open-heartedness would have made him a higher character . 
-- She could fancy such a man . 
Emma found that it was not Mr. Weston 's fault that the number of privy counsellors was not yet larger . 
`` I think she must be here soon , '' said he . 
Emma longed to know what Frank 's first opinion of Mrs. Elton might be ; how he was affected by the studied elegance of her dress , and her smiles of graciousness . 
Her gestures and movements might be understood by any one who looked on like Emma , but her words , every body 's words , were soon lost under the incessant flow of Miss Bates , who came in talking , and had not finished her speech under many minutes after her being admitted into the circle at the fire . 
-- Must not compliment , I know -- -LRB- eyeing Emma most complacently -RRB- -- that would be rude -- but upon my word , Miss Woodhouse , you do look -- how do you like Jane 's hair ? 
Frank Churchill returned to his station by Emma ; and as soon as Miss Bates was quiet , she found herself necessarily overhearing the discourse of Mrs. Elton and Miss Fairfax , who were standing a little way behind her . 
At this moment Frank began talking so vigorously , that Emma could not but imagine he had overheard his own praises , and did not want to hear more ; -- and the voices of the ladies were drowned for awhile , till another suspension brought Mrs. Elton 's tones again distinctly forward . 
said Emma in a whisper . 
Emma could hardly understand him ; he seemed in an odd humour . 
He had met with them in a little perplexity , which must be laid before Emma . 
It had just occurred to Mrs. Weston that Mrs. Elton must be asked to begin the ball ; that she would expect it ; which interfered with all their wishes of giving Emma that distinction . 
-- Emma heard the sad truth with fortitude . 
Frank turned instantly to Emma , to claim her former promise ; and boasted himself an engaged man , which his father looked his most perfect approbation of -- and it then appeared that Mrs. Weston was wanting him to dance with Mrs. Elton himself , and that their business was to help to persuade him into it , which was done pretty soon . 
Emma must submit to stand second to Mrs. Elton , though she had always considered the ball as peculiarly for her . 
-- In spite of this little rub , however , Emma was smiling with enjoyment , delighted to see the respectable length of the set as it was forming , and to feel that she had so many hours of unusual festivity before her . 
-- She was more disturbed by Mr. Knightley 's not dancing , than by any thing else . 
His tall , firm , upright figure , among the bulky forms and stooping shoulders of the elderly men , was such as Emma felt must draw every body 's eyes ; and , excepting her own partner , there was not one among the whole row of young men who could be compared with him . 
-- Whenever she caught his eye , she forced him to smile ; but it general he was looking grave . 
She wished he could love a ball-room better , and could like Frank Churchill better . 
-- He seemed often observing her . 
She must not flatter herself that he thought of her dancing , but if he were criticising her behaviour , she did not feel afraid . 
There was nothing like flirtation between her and her partner . 
That Frank Churchill thought less of her than he had done , was indubitable . 
There was one , however , which Emma thought something of . 
-- But Emma 's wonder lessened soon afterwards , on seeing Mr. Elton sauntering about . 
-- Emma saw it . 
She was not yet dancing ; she was working her way up from the bottom , and had therefore leisure to look around , and by only turning her head a little she saw it all . 
When she was half way up the set , the whole group were exactly behind her , and she would no longer allow her eyes to watch ; but Mr. Elton was so near , that she heard every syllable of a dialogue which just then took place between him and Mrs. Weston ; and she perceived that his wife , who was standing immediately above her , was not only listening also , but even encouraging him by significant glances . 
Mrs. Weston said no more ; and Emma could imagine with what surprise and mortification she must be returning to her seat . 
-- She looked round for a moment ; he had joined Mr. Knightley at a little distance , and was arranging himself for settled conversation , while smiles of high glee passed between him and his wife . 
Mr. Elton had retreated into the card-room , looking -LRB- Emma trusted -RRB- very foolish . 
She did not think he was quite so hardened as his wife , though growing very like her ; -- she spoke some of her feelings , by observing audibly to her partner , `` Knightley has taken pity on poor little Miss Smith ! 
Now there is nothing grandmamma loves better than sweetbread and asparagus -- so she was rather disappointed , but we agreed we would not speak of it to any body , for fear of its getting round to dear Miss , Woodhouse , who would be so very much concerned ! 
Emma had no opportunity of speaking to Mr. Knightley till after supper ; but , when they were all in the ball-room again , her eyes invited him irresistibly to come to her and be thanked . 
`` Emma , why is it that they are your enemies ? '' 
He looked with smiling penetration ; and , on receiving no answer , added , `` She ought not to be angry with you , I suspect , whatever he may be . 
-- To that surmise , you say nothing , of course ; but confess , Emma , that you did want him to marry Harriet . '' 
`` I did , '' replied Emma , `` and they can not forgive me . '' 
Emma was extremely gratified . 
-- Come Emma , set your companions the example . 
`` I am ready , '' said Emma , `` whenever I am wanted . '' 
She hesitated a moment , and then replied , `` With you , if you will ask me . '' 
This little explanation with Mr. Knightley gave Emma considerable pleasure . 
It was one of the agreeable recollections of the ball , which she walked about the lawn the next morning to enjoy . 
-- She was extremely glad that they had come to so good an understanding respecting the Eltons , and that their opinions of both husband and wife were so much alike ; and his praise of Harriet , his concession in her favour , was peculiarly gratifying . 
The fever was over , and Emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being quickened again by injurious courtesy . 
She depended on the evil feelings of the Eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed neglect that could be further requisite . 
A few minutes made Emma acquainted with the whole . 
-- He dared not stay longer than to see her well ; these several delays left him not another minute to lose ; and Emma engaging to give assurance of her safety to Mrs. Goddard , and notice of there being such a set of people in the neighbourhood to Mr. Knightley , he set off , with all the grateful blessings that she could utter for her friend and herself . 
So Emma thought , at least . 
Could a linguist , could a grammarian , could even a mathematician have seen what she did , have witnessed their appearance together , and heard their history of it , without feeling that circumstances had been at work to make them peculiarly interesting to each other ? 
-- especially with such a ground-work of anticipation as her mind had already made . 
Nothing of the sort had ever occurred before to any young ladies in the place , within her memory ; no rencontre , no alarm of the kind ; -- and now it had happened to the very person , and at the very hour , when the other very person was chancing to pass by to rescue her ! 
-- And knowing , as she did , the favourable state of mind of each at this period , it struck her the more . 
He was wishing to get the better of his attachment to herself , she just recovering from her mania for Mr. Elton . 
In the few minutes ' conversation which she had yet had with him , while Harriet had been partially insensible , he had spoken of her terror , her naïveté , her fervor as she seized and clung to his arm , with a sensibility amused and delighted ; and just at last , after Harriet 's own account had been given , he had expressed his indignation at the abominable folly of Miss Bickerton in the warmest terms . 
Emma 's first resolution was to keep her father from the knowledge of what had passed , -- aware of the anxiety and alarm it would occasion : but she soon felt that concealment must be impossible . 
Poor Mr. Woodhouse trembled as he sat , and , as Emma had foreseen , would scarcely be satisfied without their promising never to go beyond the shrubbery again . 
It was some comfort to him that many inquiries after himself and Miss Woodhouse -LRB- for his neighbours knew that he loved to be inquired after -RRB- , as well as Miss Smith , were coming in during the rest of the day ; and he had the pleasure of returning for answer , that they were all very indifferent -- which , though not exactly true , for she was perfectly well , and Harriet not much otherwise , Emma would not interfere with . 
She had an unhappy state of health in general for the child of such a man , for she hardly knew what indisposition was ; and if he did not invent illnesses for her , she could make no figure in a message . 
The young ladies of Highbury might have walked again in safety before their panic began , and the whole history dwindled soon into a matter of little importance but to Emma and her nephews : -- in her imagination it maintained its ground , and Henry and John were still asking every day for the story of Harriet and the gipsies , and still tenaciously setting her right if she varied in the slightest particular from the original recital . 
A very few days had passed after this adventure , when Harriet came one morning to Emma with a small parcel in her hand , and after sitting down and hesitating , thus began : `` Miss Woodhouse -- if you are at leisure -- I have something that I should like to tell you -- a sort of confession to make -- and then , you know , it will be over . '' 
Emma was a good deal surprised ; but begged her to speak . 
`` Yes , '' said Emma , `` I hope I do . '' 
said she , with a conscious look . 
She held the parcel towards her , and Emma read the words Most precious treasures on the top . 
Her curiosity was greatly excited . 
Within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little Tunbridge-ware box , which Harriet opened : it was well lined with the softest cotton ; but , excepting the cotton , Emma saw only a small piece of court plaister . 
cried Emma , putting her hand before her face , and jumping up , `` you make me more ashamed of myself than I can bear . 
said Emma , recovering from her state of shame and feeling , divided between wonder and amusement . 
And secretly she added to herself , `` Lord bless me ! 
Emma was quite eager to see this superior treasure . 
`` I do remember it , '' cried Emma ; `` I perfectly remember it . 
`` And when , '' thought Emma , `` will there be a beginning of Mr. Churchill ? '' 
She had soon afterwards reason to believe that the beginning was already made , and could not but hope that the gipsy , though she had told no fortune , might be proved to have made Harriet 's . 
Emma was not thinking of it at the moment , which made the information she received more valuable . 
She merely said , in the course of some trivial chat , `` Well , Harriet , whenever you marry I would advise you to do so and so '' -- and thought no more of it , till after a minute 's silence she heard Harriet say in a very serious tone , `` I shall never marry . '' 
Emma then looked up , and immediately saw how it was ; and after a moment 's debate , as to whether it should pass unnoticed or not , replied , `` Never marry ! 
no '' -- and Emma could just catch the words , `` so superior to Mr. Elton ! '' 
She then took a longer time for consideration . 
Should she proceed no farther ? 
-- should she let it pass , and seem to suspect nothing ? 
Emma was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for her friend . 
It 's tendency would be to raise and refine her mind -- and it must be saving her from the danger of degradation . 
He began to suspect him of some double dealing in his pursuit of Emma . 
That Emma was his object appeared indisputable . 
But while so many were devoting him to Emma , and Emma herself making him over to Harriet , Mr. Knightley began to suspect him of some inclination to trifle with Jane Fairfax . 
He could not understand it ; but there were symptoms of intelligence between them -- he thought so at least -- symptoms of admiration on his side , which , having once observed , he could not persuade himself to think entirely void of meaning , however he might wish to escape any of Emma 's errors of imagination . 
She was not present when the suspicion first arose . 
Emma and Harriet were going to walk ; he joined them ; and , on returning , they fell in with a larger party , who , like themselves , judged it wisest to take their exercise early , as the weather threatened rain ; Mr. and Mrs. Weston and their son , Miss Bates and her niece , who had accidentally met . 
They all united ; and , on reaching Hartfield gates , Emma , who knew it was exactly the sort of visiting that would be welcome to her father , pressed them all to go in and drink tea with him . 
Emma , you are a great dreamer , I think ? '' 
Emma was out of hearing . 
She had hurried on before her guests to prepare her father for their appearance , and was beyond the reach of Mr. Weston 's hint . 
The dream must be borne with , and Mr. Knightley must take his seat with the rest round the large modern circular table which Emma had introduced at Hartfield , and which none but Emma could have had power to place there and persuade her father to use , instead of the small sized Pembroke , on which two of his daily meals had , for forty years , been crowded . 
Emma was pleased with the thought ; and producing the box , the table was quickly scattered over with alphabets , which no one seemed so much disposed to employ as their two selves . 
The quietness of the game made it particularly eligible for Mr. Woodhouse , who had often been distressed by the more animated sort , which Mr. Weston had occasionally introduced , and who now sat happily occupied in lamenting , with tender melancholy , over the departure of the `` poor little boys , '' or in fondly pointing out , as he took up any stray letter near him , how beautifully Emma had written it . 
She gave a slight glance round the table , and applied herself to it . 
Frank was next to Emma , Jane opposite to them -- and Mr. Knightley so placed as to see them all ; and it was his object to see as much as he could , with as little apparent observation . 
If meant to be immediately mixed with the others , and buried from sight , she should have looked on the table instead of looking just across , for it was not mixed ; and Harriet , eager after every fresh word , and finding out none , directly took it up , and fell to work . 
He saw a short word prepared for Emma , and given to her with a look sly and demure . 
He saw that Emma had soon made it out , and found it highly entertaining , though it was something which she judged it proper to appear to censure ; for she said , `` Nonsense ! 
-- and as clearly heard Emma opposing it with eager laughing warmth . 
This gallant young man , who seemed to love without feeling , and to recommend himself without complaisance , directly handed over the word to Miss Fairfax , and with a particular degree of sedate civility entreated her to study it . 
He remained at Hartfield after all the rest , his thoughts full of what he had seen ; so full , that when the candles came to assist his observations , he must -- yes , he certainly must , as a friend -- an anxious friend -- give Emma some hint , ask her some question . 
He could not see her in a situation of such danger , without trying to preserve her . 
`` Pray , Emma , '' said he , `` may I ask in what lay the great amusement , the poignant sting of the last word given to you and Miss Fairfax ? 
Emma was extremely confused . 
She could not endure to give him the true explanation ; for though her suspicions were by no means removed , she was really ashamed of having ever imparted them . 
she cried in evident embarrassment , `` it all meant nothing ; a mere joke among ourselves . '' 
He had hoped she would speak again , but she did not . 
She would rather busy herself about any thing than speak . 
Emma 's confusion , and the acknowledged intimacy , seemed to declare her affection engaged . 
He owed it to her , to risk any thing that might be involved in an unwelcome interference , rather than her welfare ; to encounter any thing , rather than the remembrance of neglect in such a cause . 
`` My dear Emma , '' said he at last , with earnest kindness , `` do you think you perfectly understand the degree of acquaintance between the gentleman and lady we have been speaking of ? '' 
`` Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her , or that she admired him ? '' 
-- she cried with a most open eagerness -- `` Never , for the twentieth part of a moment , did such an idea occur to me . 
She spoke with a confidence which staggered , with a satisfaction which silenced , Mr. Knightley . 
She was in gay spirits , and would have prolonged the conversation , wanting to hear the particulars of his suspicions , every look described , and all the wheres and hows of a circumstance which highly entertained her : but his gaiety did not meet her 's . 
Emma had never been to Box Hill ; she wished to see what every body found so well worth seeing , and she and Mr. Weston had agreed to choose some fine morning and drive thither . 
This was so very well understood between them , that Emma could not but feel some surprise , and a little displeasure , on hearing from Mr. Weston that he had been proposing to Mrs. Elton , as her brother and sister had failed her , that the two parties should unite , and go together ; and that as Mrs. Elton had very readily acceded to it , so it was to be , if she had no objection . 
Emma denied none of it aloud , and agreed to none of it in private . 
He wished to persuade Mr. Woodhouse , as well as Emma , to join the party ; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill . 
`` Some very fine morning , he , and Emma , and Harriet , could go very well ; and he could sit still with Mrs. Weston , while the dear girls walked about the gardens . 
-- He could not see any objection at all to his , and Emma 's , and Harriet 's , going there some very fine morning . 
-- Emma and Harriet professed very high expectations of pleasure from it ; and Mr. Weston , unasked , promised to get Frank over to join them , if possible ; a proof of approbation and gratitude which could have been dispensed with . 
It was so long since Emma had been at the Abbey , that as soon as she was satisfied of her father 's comfort , she was glad to leave him , and look around her ; eager to refresh and correct her memory with more particular observation , more exact understanding of a house and grounds which must ever be so interesting to her and all her family . 
She felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant , as she viewed the respectable size and style of the building , its suitable , becoming characteristic situation , low and sheltered -- its ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream , of which the Abbey , with all the old neglect of prospect , had scarcely a sight -- and its abundance of timber in rows and avenues , which neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up . 
-- It was just what it ought to be , and it looked what it was -- and Emma felt an increasing respect for it , as the residence of a family of such true gentility , untainted in blood and understanding . 
Seats tolerably in the shade were found ; and now Emma was obliged to overhear what Mrs. Elton and Jane Fairfax were talking of . 
-- How Jane could bear it at all , was astonishing to Emma . 
-- She did look vexed , she did speak pointedly -- and at last , with a decision of action unusual to her , proposed a removal . 
-- The pertinacity of her friend seemed more than she could bear . 
In this walk Emma and Mr. Weston found all the others assembled ; and towards this view she immediately perceived Mr. Knightley and Harriet distinct from the rest , quietly leading the way . 
There had been a time also when Emma would have been sorry to see Harriet in a spot so favourable for the Abbey-Mill Farm ; but now she feared it not . 
-- She joined them at the wall , and found them more engaged in talking than in looking around . 
He was giving Harriet information as to modes of agriculture , & c. and Emma received a smile which seemed to say , `` These are my own concerns . 
-- She did not suspect him . 
-- The shade was most refreshing , and Emma found it the pleasantest part of the day . 
-- Emma looked at Harriet while the point was under consideration ; she behaved very well , and betrayed no emotion . 
Mrs. Weston had been showing them all to him , and now he would show them all to Emma ; -- fortunate in having no other resemblance to a child , than in a total want of taste for what he saw , for he was slow , constant , and methodical . 
-- Before this second looking over was begun , however , Emma walked into the hall for the sake of a few moments ' free observation of the entrance and ground-plot of the house -- and was hardly there , when Jane Fairfax appeared , coming quickly in from the garden , and with a look of escape . 
She spoke with great agitation ; and Emma very feelingly replied , `` That can be no reason for your being exposed to danger now . 
`` I am '' -- she answered -- `` I am fatigued ; but it is not the sort of fatigue -- quick walking will refresh me . 
Emma had not another word to oppose . 
She saw it all ; and entering into her feelings , promoted her quitting the house immediately , and watched her safely off with the zeal of a friend . 
Her parting look was grateful -- and her parting words , `` Oh ! 
-- seemed to burst from an overcharged heart , and to describe somewhat of the continual endurance to be practised by her , even towards some of those who loved her best . 
said Emma , as she turned back into the hall again . 
Emma had not been thinking of him , she had forgotten to think of him -- but she was very glad to see him . 
`` You will soon be cooler , if you sit still , '' said Emma . 
Emma listened , and looked , and soon perceived that Frank Churchill 's state might be best defined by the expressive phrase of being out of humour . 
Such might be his constitution ; and as she knew that eating and drinking were often the cure of such incidental complaints , she recommended his taking some refreshment ; he would find abundance of every thing in the dining-room -- and she humanely pointed out the door . 
Emma returned all her attention to her father , saying in secret -- `` I am glad I have done being in love with him . 
Frank Churchill 's little inclination to exclude himself increased so much , that his last words to Emma were , `` Well ; -- if you wish me to stay , and join the party , I will . '' 
She smiled her acceptance ; and nothing less than a summons from Richmond was to take him back before the following evening . 
Emma and Harriet went together ; Miss Bates and her niece , with the Eltons ; the gentlemen on horseback . 
Mr. Knightley took charge of Miss Bates and Jane ; and Emma and Harriet belonged to Frank Churchill . 
At first it was downright dulness to Emma . 
She had never seen Frank Churchill so silent and stupid . 
He said nothing worth hearing -- looked without seeing -- admired without intelligence -- listened without knowing what she said . 
To amuse her , and be agreeable in her eyes , seemed all that he cared for -- and Emma , glad to be enlivened , not sorry to be flattered , was gay and easy too , and gave him all the friendly encouragement , the admission to be gallant , which she had ever given in the first and most animating period of their acquaintance ; but which now , in her own estimation , meant nothing , though in the judgment of most people looking on it must have had such an appearance as no English word but flirtation could very well describe . 
Not that Emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity ; it was rather because she felt less happy than she had expected . 
She laughed because she was disappointed ; and though she liked him for his attentions , and thought them all , whether in friendship , admiration , or playfulness , extremely judicious , they were not winning back her heart . 
She still intended him for her friend . 
`` How much I am obliged to you , '' said he , `` for telling me to come to day ! 
`` I say nothing of which I am ashamed , '' replied he , with lively impudence . 
no , no '' -- cried Emma , laughing as carelessly as she could -- `` Upon no account in the world . 
`` It will not do , '' whispered Frank to Emma , `` they are most of them affronted . 
Emma could not resist . 
`` No , no , '' said Emma , `` it will not reckon low . 
You , -LRB- to Emma -RRB- , I am certain , will never guess . 
It might be a very indifferent piece of wit ; but Emma found a great deal to laugh at and enjoy in it -- and so did Frank and Harriet . 
-LRB- turning to Emma . -RRB- 
Emma was in no danger of forgetting . 
Mr. Weston , his son , Emma , and Harriet , only remained ; and the young man 's spirits now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant . 
Even Emma grew tired at last of flattery and merriment , and wished herself rather walking quietly about with any of the others , or sitting almost alone , and quite unattended to , in tranquil observation of the beautiful views beneath her . 
He looked around , as if to see that no one were near , and then said , `` Emma , I must once more speak to you as I have been used to do : a privilege rather endured than allowed , perhaps , but I must still use it . 
-- Emma , I had not thought it possible . '' 
Emma recollected , blushed , was sorry , but tried to laugh it off . 
I dare say she did not understand me . '' 
`` I assure you she did . 
She felt your full meaning . 
She has talked of it since . 
I wish you could have heard how she talked of it -- with what candour and generosity . 
I wish you could have heard her honouring your forbearance , in being able to pay her such attentions , as she was for ever receiving from yourself and your father , when her society must be so irksome . '' 
cried Emma , `` I know there is not a better creature in the world : but you must allow , that what is good and what is ridiculous are most unfortunately blended in her . '' 
`` They are blended , '' said he , `` I acknowledge ; and , were she prosperous , I could allow much for the occasional prevalence of the ridiculous over the good . 
Were she a woman of fortune , I would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance , I would not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner . 
Were she your equal in situation -- but , Emma , consider how far this is from being the case . 
She is poor ; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to ; and , if she live to old age , must probably sink more . 
Her situation should secure your compassion . 
-- You , whom she had known from an infant , whom she had seen grow up from a period when her notice was an honour , to have you now , in thoughtless spirits , and the pride of the moment , laugh at her , humble her -- and before her niece , too -- and before others , many of whom -LRB- certainly some , -RRB- would be entirely guided by your treatment of her . 
-- This is not pleasant to you , Emma -- and it is very far from pleasant to me ; but I must , I will , -- I will tell you truths while I can , satisfied with proving myself your friend by very faithful counsel , and trusting that you will some time or other do me greater justice than you can do now . '' 
While they talked , they were advancing towards the carriage ; it was ready ; and , before she could speak again , he had handed her in . 
He had misinterpreted the feelings which had kept her face averted , and her tongue motionless . 
She had not been able to speak ; and , on entering the carriage , sunk back for a moment overcome -- then reproaching herself for having taken no leave , making no acknowledgement , parting in apparent sullenness , she looked out with voice and hand eager to show a difference ; but it was just too late . 
She continued to look back , but in vain ; and soon , with what appeared unusual speed , they were half way down the hill , and every thing left far behind . 
She was vexed beyond what could have been expressed -- almost beyond what she could conceal . 
Never had she felt so agitated , mortified , grieved , at any circumstance in her life . 
She was most forcibly struck . 
She felt it at her heart . 
How could she have been so brutal , so cruel to Miss Bates ! 
There was only Harriet , who seemed not in spirits herself , fagged , and very willing to be silent ; and Emma felt the tears running down her cheeks almost all the way home , without being at any trouble to check them , extraordinary as they were . 
The wretchedness of a scheme to Box Hill was in Emma 's thoughts all the evening . 
How it might be considered by the rest of the party , she could not tell . 
They , in their different homes , and their different ways , might be looking back on it with pleasure ; but in her view it was a morning more completely mispent , more totally bare of rational satisfaction at the time , and more to be abhorred in recollection , than any she had ever passed . 
A whole evening of back-gammon with her father , was felicity to it . 
There , indeed , lay real pleasure , for there she was giving up the sweetest hours of the twenty-four to his comfort ; and feeling that , unmerited as might be the degree of his fond affection and confiding esteem , she could not , in her general conduct , be open to any severe reproach . 
Emma seriously hoped she would . 
She had a moment 's fear of Miss Bates keeping away from her . 
But Miss Bates soon came -- `` Very happy and obliged '' -- but Emma 's conscience told her that there was not the same cheerful volubility as before -- less ease of look and manner . 
''' Emma was most sincerely interested . 
Her heart had been long growing kinder towards Jane ; and this picture of her present sufferings acted as a cure of every former ungenerous suspicion , and left her nothing but pity ; and the remembrance of the less just and less gentle sensations of the past , obliged her to admit that Jane might very naturally resolve on seeing Mrs. Cole or any other steady friend , when she might not bear to see herself . 
There was no bearing such an ` always ; ' and to break through her dreadful gratitude , Emma made the direct inquiry of -- `` Where -- may I ask ? 
madam , '' cried Emma , `` if other children are at all like what I remember to have been myself , I should think five times the amount of what I have ever yet heard named as a salary on such occasions , dearly earned . '' 
Miss Bates would hardly give Emma time to say how perfectly new this circumstance was to her ; but as without supposing it possible that she could be ignorant of any of the particulars of Mr. Frank Churchill 's going , she proceeded to give them all , it was of no consequence . 
There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest , and it caught Emma 's attention only as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind . 
Now Emma was obliged to think of the piano forté ; and the remembrance of all her former fanciful and unfair conjectures was so little pleasing , that she soon allowed herself to believe her visit had been long enough ; and , with a repetition of every thing that she could venture to say of the good wishes which she really felt , took leave . 
Emma 's pensive meditations , as she walked home , were not interrupted ; but on entering the parlour , she found those who must rouse her . 
Emma was sure he had not forgiven her ; he looked unlike himself . 
Time , however , she thought , would tell him that they ought to be friends again . 
While he stood , as if meaning to go , but not going -- her father began his inquiries . 
Dear Emma has been to call on Mrs. and Miss Bates , Mr. Knightley , as I told you before . 
She is always so attentive to them ! '' 
Emma 's colour was heightened by this unjust praise ; and with a smile , and shake of the head , which spoke much , she looked at Mr. Knightley . 
-- It seemed as if there were an instantaneous impression in her favour , as if his eyes received the truth from her 's , and all that had passed of good in her feelings were at once caught and honoured . 
-- He looked at her with a glow of regard . 
She was warmly gratified -- and in another moment still more so , by a little movement of more than common friendliness on his part . 
-- He took her hand ; -- whether she had not herself made the first motion , she could not say -- she might , perhaps have rather offered it -- but he took her hand , pressed it , and certainly was on the point of carrying it to his lips -- when , from some fancy or other , he suddenly let it go . 
-- Why he should feel such a scruple , why he should change his mind when it was all but done , she could not perceive . 
-- He would have judged better , she thought , if he had not stopped . 
-- The intention , however , was indubitable ; and whether it was that his manners had in general so little gallantry , or however else it happened , but she thought nothing became him more . 
-- She could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction . 
Emma could not regret her having gone to Miss Bates , but she wished she had left her ten minutes earlier ; -- it would have been a great pleasure to talk over Jane Fairfax 's situation with Mr. Knightley . 
In the hope of diverting her father 's thoughts from the disagreeableness of Mr. Knightley 's going to London ; and going so suddenly ; and going on horseback , which she knew would be all very bad ; Emma communicated her news of Jane Fairfax , and her dependence on the effect was justified ; it supplied a very useful check , -- interested , without disturbing him . 
`` I am very glad indeed , my dear , to hear she is to be so comfortably settled . 
It was also a very early speculation with Emma . 
All that remained to be wished was , that the nephew should form the attachment , as , with all her good will in the cause , Emma could feel no certainty of its being already formed . 
Emma was gratified , to observe such a proof in her of strengthened character , and refrained from any allusion that might endanger its maintenance . 
At present , there was nothing to be done for Harriet ; good wishes for the future were all that could yet be possible on Emma 's side . 
It was a more pressing concern to show attention to Jane Fairfax , whose prospects were closing , while Harriet 's opened , and whose engagements now allowed of no delay in any one at Highbury , who wished to show her kindness -- and with Emma it was grown into a first wish . 
She had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past coldness ; and the person , whom she had been so many months neglecting , was now the very one on whom she would have lavished every distinction of regard or sympathy . 
She wanted to be of use to her ; wanted to show a value for her society , and testify respect and consideration . 
She resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at Hartfield . 
`` Miss Fairfax was not well enough to write ; '' and when Mr. Perry called at Hartfield , the same morning , it appeared that she was so much indisposed as to have been visited , though against her own consent , by himself , and that she was suffering under severe headachs , and a nervous fever to a degree , which made him doubt the possibility of her going to Mrs. Smallridge 's at the time proposed . 
Her health seemed for the moment completely deranged -- appetite quite gone -- and though there were no absolutely alarming symptoms , nothing touching the pulmonary complaint , which was the standing apprehension of the family , Mr. Perry was uneasy about her . 
He thought she had undertaken more than she was equal to , and that she felt it so herself , though she would not own it . 
Her spirits seemed overcome . 
Her present home , he could not but observe , was unfavourable to a nervous disorder : -- confined always to one room ; -- he could have wished it otherwise -- and her good aunt , though his very old friend , he must acknowledge to be not the best companion for an invalid of that description . 
Her care and attention could not be questioned ; they were , in fact , only too great . 
Emma listened with the warmest concern ; grieved for her more and more , and looked around eager to discover some way of being useful . 
To take her -- be it only an hour or two -- from her aunt , to give her change of air and scene , and quiet rational conversation , even for an hour or two , might do her good ; and the following morning she wrote again to say , in the most feeling language she could command , that she would call for her in the carriage at any hour that Jane would name -- mentioning that she had Mr. Perry 's decided opinion , in favour of such exercise for his patient . 
Emma felt that her own note had deserved something better ; but it was impossible to quarrel with words , whose tremulous inequality showed indisposition so plainly , and she thought only of how she might best counteract this unwillingness to be seen or assisted . 
In spite of the answer , therefore , she ordered the carriage , and drove to Mrs. Bates 's , in the hope that Jane would be induced to join her -- but it would not do ; -- Miss Bates came to the carriage door , all gratitude , and agreeing with her most earnestly in thinking an airing might be of the greatest service -- and every thing that message could do was tried -- but all in vain . 
-- Emma wished she could have seen her , and tried her own powers ; but , almost before she could hint the wish , Miss Bates made it appear that she had promised her niece on no account to let Miss Woodhouse in . 
Emma did not want to be classed with the Mrs. Eltons , the Mrs. Perrys , and the Mrs. Coles , who would force themselves anywhere ; neither could she feel any right of preference herself -- she submitted , therefore , and only questioned Miss Bates farther as to her niece 's appetite and diet , which she longed to be able to assist . 
Emma , on reaching home , called the housekeeper directly , to an examination of her stores ; and some arrow-root of very superior quality was speedily despatched to Miss Bates with a most friendly note . 
When Emma afterwards heard that Jane Fairfax had been seen wandering about the meadows , at some distance from Highbury , on the afternoon of the very day on which she had , under the plea of being unequal to any exercise , so peremptorily refused to go out with her in the carriage , she could have no doubt -- putting every thing together -- that Jane was resolved to receive no kindness from her . 
One morning , about ten days after Mrs. Churchill 's decease , Emma was called down stairs to Mr. Weston , who `` could not stay five minutes , and wanted particularly to speak with her . '' 
-- He met her at the parlour door , and hardly asking her how she did , in the natural key of his voice , sunk it immediately , to say , unheard by her father , `` Can you come to Randall 's at any time this morning ? 
To guess what all this meant , was impossible even for Emma . 
Something really important seemed announced by his looks ; but , as her friend was well , she endeavoured not to be uneasy , and settling it with her father , that she would take her walk now , she and Mr. Weston were soon out of the house together , and on their way at a quick pace for Randall 's . 
`` Now , '' -- said Emma , when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates , -- `` now Mr. Weston , do let me know what has happened . '' 
Do not be impatient , Emma ; it will all come out too soon . '' 
`` Break it to me , '' cried Emma , standing still with terror . 
`` Upon my word , Emma . '' 
Emma 's courage returned , and she walked on . 
-- In short , my dear Emma , there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it . 
Emma found that she must wait ; and now it required little effort . 
She asked no more questions therefore , merely employed her own fancy , and that soon pointed out to her the probability of its being some money concern -- something just come to light , of a disagreeable nature in the circumstances of the family , -- something which the late event at Richmond had brought forward . 
Her fancy was very active . 
-- This , though very undesirable , would be no matter of agony to her . 
said she , as they proceeded -- speaking more to assist Mr. Weston in keeping his secret , than with any other view . 
-- And Emma distinctly heard him add , in a lower tone , before he quitted the room , -- `` I have been as good as my word . 
Mrs. Weston was looking so ill , and had an air of so much perturbation , that Emma 's uneasiness increased ; and the moment they were alone , she eagerly said , `` What is it my dear friend ? 
`` Can not you , my dear Emma -- can not you form a guess as to what you are to hear ? '' 
Emma thought first of herself , and then of Harriet . 
-- What will you say , Emma -- what will anybody say , when it is known that Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax are engaged ; -- nay , that they have been long engaged ! '' 
Emma even jumped with surprise ; -- and , horror-struck , exclaimed , `` Jane Fairfax ! 
`` You may well be amazed , '' returned Mrs. Weston , still averting her eyes , and talking on with eagerness , that Emma might have time to recover -- `` You may well be amazed . 
Emma scarcely heard what was said . 
-- Her mind was divided between two ideas -- her own former conversations with him about Miss Fairfax ; and poor Harriet ; -- and for some time she could only exclaim , and require confirmation , repeated confirmation . 
-- It has hurt me , Emma , very much . 
Emma pondered a moment , and then replied , `` I will not pretend not to understand you ; and to give you all the relief in my power , be assured that no such effect has followed his attentions to me , as you are apprehensive of . '' 
Mrs. Weston looked up , afraid to believe ; but Emma 's countenance was as steady as her words . 
`` That you may have less difficulty in believing this boast , of my present perfect indifference , '' she continued , `` I will farther tell you , that there was a period in the early part of our acquaintance , when I did like him , when I was very much disposed to be attached to him -- nay , was attached -- and how it came to cease , is perhaps the wonder . 
`` From something that he said , my dear Emma , I rather imagine -- '' `` And how could she bear such behaviour ! 
`` There were misunderstandings between them , Emma ; he said so expressly . 
`` Nay , dear Emma , now I must take his part ; for though he has been wrong in this instance , I have known him long enough to answer for his having many , very many , good qualities ; and -- '' `` Good God ! '' 
cried Emma ; not attending to her . 
`` He knew nothing about , it Emma . 
It was a private resolution of her 's , not communicated to him -- or at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction . 
-- Till yesterday , I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans . 
They burst on him , I do not know how , but by some letter or message -- and it was the discovery of what she was doing , of this very project of her 's , which determined him to come forward at once , own it all to his uncle , throw himself on his kindness , and , in short , put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long . '' 
Emma began to listen better . 
`` His sufferings , '' replied Emma drily , `` do not appear to have done him much harm . 
thought Emma , `` he would have done as much for Harriet . '' 
Emma could not speak the name of Dixon without a little blush . 
`` Well , '' said Emma , `` I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea , and I wish them very happy . 
His wife gave him a look which invited him in ; and , while he was coming round , added , `` Now , dearest Emma , let me intreat you to say and look every thing that may set his heart at ease , and incline him to be satisfied with the match . 
Let us make the best of it -- and , indeed , almost every thing may be fairly said in her favour . 
cried Emma , feelingly . 
His companions suggested only what could palliate imprudence , or smooth objections ; and by the time they had talked it all over together , and he had talked it all over again with Emma , in their walk back to Hartfield , he was become perfectly reconciled , and not far from thinking it the very best thing that Frank could possibly have done . 
-- Those were the words ; in them lay the tormenting ideas which Emma could not get rid of , and which constituted the real misery of the business to her . 
Frank Churchill had behaved very ill by herself -- very ill in many ways , -- but it was not so much his behaviour as her own , which made her so angry with him . 
It was the scrape which he had drawn her into on Harriet 's account , that gave the deepest hue to his offence . 
Mr. Knightley had spoken prophetically , when he once said , `` Emma , you have been no friend to Harriet Smith . '' 
-- Emma could now imagine why her own attentions had been slighted . 
Emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be more severe than the first . 
-- Emma had promised ; but still Harriet must be excepted . 
replied Emma , unable to guess , by look or voice , whether Harriet could indeed have received any hint . 
-- said Emma , still perplexed . 
It was , indeed , so odd ; Harriet 's behaviour was so extremely odd , that Emma did not know how to understand it . 
Her character appeared absolutely changed . 
She seemed to propose showing no agitation , or disappointment , or peculiar concern in the discovery . 
Emma looked at her , quite unable to speak . 
-- You -LRB- blushing as she spoke -RRB- who can see into everybody 's heart ; but nobody else -- '' `` Upon my word , '' said Emma , `` I begin to doubt my having any such talent . 
`` I am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject , '' replied Emma , smiling ; `` but you do not mean to deny that there was a time -- and not very distant either -- when you gave me reason to understand that you did care about him ? '' 
cried Emma , after a moment 's pause -- `` What do you mean ? 
-- '' She could not speak another word . 
-- Her voice was lost ; and she sat down , waiting in great terror till Harriet should answer . 
Harriet , who was standing at some distance , and with face turned from her , did not immediately say any thing ; and when she did speak , it was in a voice nearly as agitated as Emma 's . 
`` I should not have thought it possible , '' she began , `` that you could have misunderstood me ! 
cried Emma , collecting herself resolutely -- `` Let us understand each other now , without the possibility of farther mistake . 
`` Not quite , '' returned Emma , with forced calmness , `` for all that you then said , appeared to me to relate to a different person . 
cried Emma , `` this has been a most unfortunate -- most deplorable mistake ! 
Emma could not speak . 
`` I do not wonder , Miss Woodhouse , '' she resumed , `` that you should feel a great difference between the two , as to me or as to anybody . 
Emma turned round to look at her in consternation , and hastily said , `` Have you any idea of Mr. Knightley 's returning your affection ? '' 
Emma 's eyes were instantly withdrawn ; and she sat silently meditating , in a fixed attitude , for a few minutes . 
A few minutes were sufficient for making her acquainted with her own heart . 
A mind like her 's , once opening to suspicion , made rapid progress . 
She touched -- she admitted -- she acknowledged the whole truth . 
Some portion of respect for herself , however , in spite of all these demerits -- some concern for her own appearance , and a strong sense of justice by Harriet -- -LRB- there would be no need of compassion to the girl who believed herself loved by Mr. Knightley -- but justice required that she should not be made unhappy by any coldness now , -RRB- gave Emma the resolution to sit and endure farther with calmness , with even apparent kindness . 
-- For her own advantage indeed , it was fit that the utmost extent of Harriet 's hopes should be enquired into ; and Harriet had done nothing to forfeit the regard and interest which had been so voluntarily formed and maintained -- or to deserve to be slighted by the person , whose counsels had never led her right . 
-- Emma 's tremblings as she asked , and as she listened , were better concealed than Harriet 's , but they were not less . 
-- Emma knew that he had , on that occasion , found her much superior to his expectation . 
Emma knew it to have been very much the case . 
She had often observed the change , to almost the same extent . 
-- Harriet repeated expressions of approbation and praise from him -- and Emma felt them to be in the closest agreement with what she had known of his opinion of Harriet . 
-- Much that lived in Harriet 's memory , many little particulars of the notice she had received from him , a look , a speech , a removal from one chair to another , a compliment implied , a preference inferred , had been unnoticed , because unsuspected by Emma . 
Circumstances that might swell to half an hour 's relation , and contained multiplied proofs to her who had seen them , had passed undiscerned by her who now heard them ; but the two latest occurrences to be mentioned , the two of strongest promise to Harriet , were not without some degree of witness from Emma herself . 
-- The first , was his walking with her apart from the others , in the lime walk at Donwell , where they had been walking some time before Emma came , and he had taken pains -LRB- as she was convinced -RRB- to draw her from the rest to himself -- and at first , he had talked to her in a more particular way than he had ever done before , in a very particular way indeed ! 
-- But as soon as she -LRB- Miss Woodhouse -RRB- appeared likely to join them , he changed the subject , and began talking about farming : -- The second , was his having sat talking with her nearly half an hour before Emma came back from her visit , the very last morning of his being at Hartfield -- though , when he first came in , he had said that he could not stay five minutes -- and his having told her , during their conversation , that though he must go to London , it was very much against his inclination that he left home at all , which was much more -LRB- as Emma felt -RRB- than he had acknowledged to her . 
The bitter feelings occasioned by this speech , the many bitter feelings , made the utmost exertion necessary on Emma 's side , to enable her to say on reply , `` Harriet , I will only venture to declare , that Mr. Knightley is the last man in the world , who would intentionally give any woman the idea of his feeling for her more than he really does . '' 
Harriet seemed ready to worship her friend for a sentence so satisfactory ; and Emma was only saved from raptures and fondness , which at that moment would have been dreadful penance , by the sound of her father 's footsteps . 
`` She could not compose herself -- Mr. Woodhouse would be alarmed -- she had better go ; '' -- with most ready encouragement from her friend , therefore , she passed off through another door -- and the moment she was gone , this was the spontaneous burst of Emma 's feelings : `` Oh God ! 
The rest of the day , the following night , were hardly enough for her thoughts . 
-- She was bewildered amidst the confusion of all that had rushed on her within the last few hours . 
Every moment had brought a fresh surprise ; and every surprise must be matter of humiliation to her . 
How to understand the deceptions she had been thus practising on herself , and living under ! 
-- The blunders , the blindness of her own head and heart ! 
-- she sat still , she walked about , she tried her own room , she tried the sbrubbery -- in every place , every posture , she perceived that she had acted most weakly ; that she had been imposed on by others in a most mortifying degree ; that she had been imposing on herself in a degree yet more mortifying ; that she was wretched , and should probably find this day but the beginning of wretchedness . 
To understand , thoroughly understand her own heart , was the first endeavour . 
To that point went every leisure moment which her father 's claims on her allowed , and every moment of involuntary absence of mind . 
How long had Mr. Knightley been so dear to her , as every feeling declared him now to be ? 
-- When had he succeeded to that place in her affection , which Frank Churchill had once , for a short period , occupied ? 
-- She looked back ; she compared the two -- compared them , as they had always stood in her estimation , from the time of the latter 's becoming known to her -- and as they must at any time have been compared by her , had it -- oh ! 
had it , by any blessed felicity , occurred to her , to institute the comparison . 
-- She saw that there never had been a time when she did not consider Mr. Knightley as infinitely the superior , or when his regard for her had not been infinitely the most dear . 
She saw , that in persuading herself , in fancying , in acting to the contrary , she had been entirely under a delusion , totally ignorant of her own heart -- and , in short , that she had never really cared for Frank Churchill at all ! 
This was the knowledge of herself , on the first question of inquiry , which she reached ; and without being long in reaching it . 
-- She was most sorrowfully indignant ; ashamed of every sensation but the one revealed to her -- her affection for Mr. Knightley . 
-- Every other part of her mind was disgusting . 
With insufferable vanity had she believed herself in the secret of everybody 's feelings ; with unpardonable arrogance proposed to arrange everybody 's destiny . 
She was proved to have been universally mistaken ; and she had not quite done nothing -- for she had done mischief . 
She had brought evil on Harriet , on herself , and she too much feared , on Mr. Knightley . 
-- Were this most unequal of all connexions to take place , on her must rest all the reproach of having given it a beginning ; for his attachment , she must believe to be produced only by a consciousness of Harriet 's ; -- and even were this not the case , he would never have known Harriet at all but for her folly . 
-- It was horrible to Emma to think how it must sink him in the general opinion , to foresee the smiles , the sneers , the merriment it would prompt at his expense ; the mortification and disdain of his brother , the thousand inconveniences to himself . 
Till now that she was threatened with its loss , Emma had never known how much of her happiness depended on being first with Mr. Knightley , first in interest and affection . 
-- Satisfied that it was so , and feeling it her due , she had enjoyed it without reflection ; and only in the dread of being supplanted , found how inexpressibly important it had been . 
-- Long , very long , she felt she had been first ; for , having no female connexions of his own , there had been only Isabella whose claims could be compared with hers , and she had always known exactly how far he loved and esteemed Isabella . 
This point was just arranged , when a visitor arrived to tear Emma 's thoughts a little from the one subject which had engrossed them , sleeping or waking , the last twenty-four hours -- Mrs. Weston , who had been calling on her daughter-in-law elect , and took Hartfield in her way home , almost as much in duty to Emma as in pleasure to herself , to relate all the particulars of so interesting an interview . 
Mr. Weston had accompanied her to Mrs. Bates 's , and gone through his share of this essential attention most handsomely ; but she having then induced Miss Fairfax to join her in an airing , was now returned with much more to say , and much more to say with satisfaction , than a quarter of an hour spent in Mrs. Bates 's parlour , with all the incumbrance of awkward feelings , could have afforded . 
A little curiosity Emma had ; and she made the most of it while her friend related . 
Emma smiled , and felt that Mr. Weston had very good reason for saying so . 
` I will not say , that since I entered into the engagement I have not had some happy moments ; but I can say , that I have never known the blessing of one tranquil hour : ' -- and the quivering lip , Emma , which uttered it , was an attestation that I felt at my heart . '' 
said Emma . 
said Emma again . 
`` I am afraid , '' returned Emma , sighing , `` that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy . '' 
One natural consequence of the evil she had involved herself in , '' she said , `` was that of making her unreasonable . 
`` If I did not know her to be happy now , '' said Emma , seriously , `` which , in spite of every little drawback from her scrupulous conscience , she must be , I could not bear these thanks ; -- for , oh ! 
She talked with a great deal of reason , and at least equal affection -- but she had too much to urge for Emma 's attention ; it was soon gone to Brunswick Square or to Donwell ; she forgot to attempt to listen ; and when Mrs. Weston ended with , `` We have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for , you know , but I hope it will soon come , '' she was obliged to pause before she answered , and at last obliged to answer at random , before she could at all recollect what letter it was which they were so anxious for . 
`` Are you well , my Emma ? '' 
Mrs. Weston 's communications furnished Emma with more food for unpleasant reflection , by increasing her esteem and compassion , and her sense of past injustice towards Miss Fairfax . 
She bitterly regretted not having sought a closer acquaintance with her , and blushed for the envious feelings which had certainly been , in some measure , the cause . 
Had she followed Mr. Knightley 's known wishes , in paying that attention to Miss Fairfax , which was every way her due ; had she tried to know her better ; had she done her part towards intimacy ; had she endeavoured to find a friend there instead of in Harriet Smith ; she must , in all probability , have been spared from every pain which pressed on her now . 
And if he were to be lost to them for Harriet 's sake ; if he were to be thought of hereafter , as finding in Harriet 's society all that he wanted ; if Harriet were to be the chosen , the first , the dearest , the friend , the wife to whom he looked for all the best blessings of existence ; what could be increasing Emma 's wretchedness but the reflection never far distant from her mind , that it had been all her own work ? 
When it came to such a pitch as this , she was not able to refrain from a start , or a heavy sigh , or even from walking about the room for a few seconds -- and the only source whence any thing like consolation or composure could be drawn , was in the resolution of her own better conduct , and the hope that , however inferior in spirit and gaiety might be the following and every future winter of her life to the past , it would yet find her more rational , more acquainted with herself , and leave her less to regret when it were gone . 
With all the eagerness which such a transition gives , Emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as possible . 
Never had the exquisite sight , smell , sensation of nature , tranquil , warm , and brilliant after a storm , been more attractive to her . 
She longed for the serenity they might gradually introduce ; and on Mr. Perry 's coming in soon after dinner , with a disengaged hour to give her father , she lost no time in hurrying into the shrubbery . 
-- There , with spirits freshened , and thoughts a little relieved , she had taken a few turns , when she saw Mr. Knightley passing through the garden door , and coming towards her . 
She had been thinking of him the moment before , as unquestionably sixteen miles distant . 
She must be collected and calm . 
She asked after their mutual friends ; they were all well . 
-- He meant to walk with her , she found . 
-- She thought he neither looked nor spoke cheerfully ; and the first possible cause for it , suggested by her fears , was , that he had perhaps been communicating his plans to his brother , and was pained by the manner in which they had been received . 
She thought he was often looking at her , and trying for a fuller view of her face than it suited her to give . 
Perhaps he wanted to speak to her , of his attachment to Harriet ; he might be watching for encouragement to begin . 
cried Emma , turning her glowing cheeks towards him ; for while she spoke , it occurred to her that he might have called at Mrs. Goddard 's in his way . 
Emma was quite relieved , and could presently say , with a little more composure , `` You probably have been less surprised than any of us , for you have had your suspicions . 
For a moment or two nothing was said , and she was unsuspicious of having excited any particular interest , till she found her arm drawn within his , and pressed against his heart , and heard him thus saying , in a tone of great sensibility , speaking low , `` Time , my dearest Emma , time will heal the wound . 
Her arm was pressed again , as he added , in a more broken and subdued accent , `` The feelings of the warmest friendship -- Indignation -- Abominable scoundrel ! '' 
I am sorry for her . 
She deserves a better fate . '' 
Emma understood him ; and as soon as she could recover from the flutter of pleasure , excited by such tender consideration , replied , `` You are very kind -- but you are mistaken -- and I must set you right . 
`` Emma ! '' 
cried he , looking eagerly at her , `` are you , indeed ? '' 
`` Mr. Knightley , '' said Emma , trying to be lively , but really confused -- `` I am in a very extraordinary situation . 
She wished him to speak , but he would not . 
She supposed she must say more before she were entitled to his clemency ; but it was a hard case to be obliged still to lower herself in his opinion . 
She went on , however . 
She had hoped for an answer here -- for a few words to say that her conduct was at least intelligible ; but he was silent ; and , as far as she could judge , deep in thought . 
`` I have no doubt of their being happy together , '' said Emma ; `` I believe them to be very mutually and very sincerely attached . '' 
`` And I do envy him , Emma . 
Emma could say no more . 
Emma , I must tell what you will not ask , though I may wish it unsaid the next moment . '' 
Emma could not bear to give him pain . 
He was wishing to confide in her -- perhaps to consult her ; -- cost her what it would , she would listen . 
She might assist his resolution , or reconcile him to it ; she might give just praise to Harriet , or , by representing to him his own independence , relieve him from that state of indecision , which must be more intolerable than any alternative to such a mind as his . 
`` No '' -- replied Emma -- quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke -- `` I should like to take another turn . 
And , after proceeding a few steps , she added -- `` I stopped you ungraciously , just now , Mr. Knightley , and , I am afraid , gave you pain . 
-- `` Emma , that I fear is a word -- No , I have no wish -- Stay , yes , why should I hesitate ? 
-- Emma , I accept your offer -- Extraordinary as it may seem , I accept it , and refer myself to you as a friend . 
He stopped in his earnestness to look the question , and the expression of his eyes overpowered her . 
`` My dearest Emma , '' said he , `` for dearest you will always be , whatever the event of this hour 's conversation , my dearest , most beloved Emma -- tell me at once . 
-- She could really say nothing . 
Emma was almost ready to sink under the agitation of this moment . 
`` I can not make speeches , Emma : '' -- he soon resumed ; and in a tone of such sincere , decided , intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing . 
-- Bear with the truths I would tell you now , dearest Emma , as well as you have borne with them . 
While he spoke , Emma 's mind was most busy , and , with all the wonderful velocity of thought , had been able -- and yet without losing a word -- to catch and comprehend the exact truth of the whole ; to see that Harriet 's hopes had been entirely groundless , a mistake , a delusion , as complete a delusion as any of her own -- that Harriet was nothing ; that she was every thing herself ; that what she had been saying relative to Harriet had been all taken as the language of her own feelings ; and that her agitation , her doubts , her reluctance , her discouragement , had been all received as discouragement from herself . 
-- It was all the service she could now render her poor friend ; for as to any of that heroism of sentiment which might have prompted her to entreat him to transfer his affection from herself to Harriet , as infinitely the most worthy of the two -- or even the more simple sublimity of resolving to refuse him at once and for ever , without vouchsafing any motive , because he could not marry them both , Emma had it not . 
She felt for Harriet , with pain and with contrition ; but no flight of generosity run mad , opposing all that could be probable or reasonable , entered her brain . 
-- Mr. Knightley could not impute to Emma a more relenting heart than she possessed , or a heart more disposed to accept of his . 
He had followed her into the shrubbery with no idea of trying it . 
He had come , in his anxiety to see how she bore Frank Churchill 's engagement , with no selfish view , no view at all , but of endeavouring , if she allowed him an opening , to soothe or to counsel her . 
The delightful assurance of her total indifference towards Frank Churchill , of her having a heart completely disengaged from him , had given birth to the hope , that , in time , he might gain her affection himself ; -- but it had been no present hope -- he had only , in the momentary conquest of eagerness over judgment , aspired to be told that she did not forbid his attempt to attach her . 
Her change was equal . 
-- He had been in love with Emma , and jealous of Frank Churchill , from about the same period , one sentiment having probably enlightened him as to the other . 
There was too much domestic happiness in his brother 's house ; woman wore too amiable a form in it ; Isabella was too much like Emma -- differing only in those striking inferiorities , which always brought the other in brilliancy before him , for much to have been done , even had his time been longer . 
-- Then , with the gladness which must be felt , nay , which he did not scruple to feel , having never believed Frank Churchill to be at all deserving Emma , was there so much fond solicitude , so much keen anxiety for her , that he could stay no longer ? 
He had ridden home through the rain ; and had walked up directly after dinner , to see how this sweetest and best of all creatures , faultless in spite of all her faults , bore the discovery . 
He had found her agitated and low . 
-- He heard her declare that she had never loved him . 
-- She was his own Emma , by hand and word , when they returned into the house ; and if he could have thought of Frank Churchill then , he might have deemed him a very good sort of fellow . 
What totally different feelings did Emma take back into the house from what she had brought out ! 
-- she had then been only daring to hope for a little respite of suffering ; -- she was now in an exquisite flutter of happiness , and such happiness moreover as she believed must still be greater when the flutter should have passed away . 
-- and how often had her eyes fallen on the same shrubs in the lawn , and observed the same beautiful effect of the western sun ! 
-- But never in such a state of spirits , never in anything like it ; and it was with difficulty that she could summon enough of her usual self to be the attentive lady of the house , or even the attentive daughter . 
As long as Mr. Knightley remained with them , Emma 's fever continued ; but when he was gone , she began to be a little tranquillized and subdued -- and in the course of the sleepless night , which was the tax for such an evening , she found one or two such very serious points to consider , as made her feel , that even her happiness must have some alloy . 
Her father -- and Harriet . 
`` I have the greatest pleasure , my dear Emma , in forwarding to you the enclosed . 
While you considered me as having sinned against Emma Woodhouse , I could deserve nothing from either . 
Acquit me here , and procure for me , when it is allowable , the acquittal and good wishes of that said Emma Woodhouse , whom I regard with so much brotherly affection , as to long to have her as deeply and as happily in love as myself . 
This letter must make its way to Emma 's feelings . 
She was obliged , in spite of her previous determination to the contrary , to do it all the justice that Mrs. Weston foretold . 
He began -- stopping , however , almost directly to say , `` Had I been offered the sight of one of this gentleman 's letters to his mother-in-law a few months ago , Emma , it would not have been taken with such indifference . '' 
`` And I have not forgotten , '' said Emma , `` how sure you were that he might have come sooner if he would . 
`` I was not quite impartial in my judgment , Emma : -- but yet , I think -- had you not been in the case -- I should still have distrusted him . '' 
When he came to Miss Woodhouse , he was obliged to read the whole of it aloud -- all that related to her , with a smile ; a look ; a shake of the head ; a word or two of assent , or disapprobation ; or merely of love , as the subject required ; concluding , however , seriously , and , after steady reflection , thus -- `` Very bad -- though it might have been worse . 
My Emma , does not every thing serve to prove more and more the beauty of truth and sincerity in all our dealings with each other ? '' 
Emma agreed to it , and with a blush of sensibility on Harriet 's account , which she could not give any sincere explanation of . 
Emma knew that he was now getting to the Box-Hill party , and grew uncomfortable . 
Her own behaviour had been so very improper ! 
She was deeply ashamed , and a little afraid of his next look . 
It was all read , however , steadily , attentively , and without the smallest remark ; and , excepting one momentary glance at her , instantly withdrawn , in the fear of giving pain -- no remembrance of Box-Hill seemed to exist . 
`` Say nothing , my dear Emma , while you oblige me to read -- not even of Mrs. Elton . 
Ever since I left you this morning , Emma , my mind has been hard at work on one subject . '' 
Emma 's answer was ready at the first word . 
`` While her dear father lived , any change of condition must be impossible for her . 
She could never quit him . '' 
The impossibility of her quitting her father , Mr. Knightley felt as strongly as herself ; but the inadmissibility of any other change , he could not agree to . 
He had been thinking it over most deeply , most intently ; he had at first hoped to induce Mr. Woodhouse to remove with her to Donwell ; he had wanted to believe it feasible , but his knowledge of Mr. Woodhouse would not suffer him to deceive himself long ; and now he confessed his persuasion , that such a transplantation would be a risk of her father 's comfort , perhaps even of his life , which must not be hazarded . 
But the plan which had arisen on the sacrifice of this , he trusted his dearest Emma would not find in any respect objectionable ; it was , that he should be received at Hartfield ; that so long as her father 's happiness -- in other words his life -- required Hartfield to continue her home , it should be his likewise . 
Of their all removing to Donwell , Emma had already had her own passing thoughts . 
Like him , she had tried the scheme and rejected it ; but such an alternative as this had not occurred to her . 
She was sensible of all the affection it evinced . 
She felt that , in quitting Donwell , he must be sacrificing a great deal of independence of hours and habits ; that in living constantly with her father , and in no house of his own , there would be much , very much , to be borne with . 
She promised to think of it , and advised him to think of it more ; but he was fully convinced , that no reflection could alter his wishes or his opinion on the subject . 
He had given it , he could assure her , very long and calm consideration ; he had been walking away from William Larkins the whole morning , to have his thoughts to himself . 
there is one difficulty unprovided for , '' cried Emma . 
She promised , however , to think of it ; and pretty nearly promised , moreover , to think of it , with the intention of finding it a very good scheme . 
It is remarkable , that Emma , in the many , very many , points of view in which she was now beginning to consider Donwell Abbey , was never struck with any sense of injury to her nephew Henry , whose rights as heir expectant had formerly been so tenaciously regarded . 
Think she must of the possible difference to the poor little boy ; and yet she only gave herself a saucy conscious smile about it , and found amusement in detecting the real cause of that violent dislike of Mr. Knightley 's marrying Jane Fairfax , or any body else , which at the time she had wholly imputed to the amiable solicitude of the sister and the aunt . 
The delightful family-party which Emma was securing for herself , poor Harriet must , in mere charitable caution , be kept at a distance from . 
Emma could not deplore her future absence as any deduction from her own enjoyment . 
It was a very great relief to Emma to find Harriet as desirous as herself to avoid a meeting . 
Harriet expressed herself very much , as might be supposed , without reproaches , or apparent sense of ill usage ; and yet Emma fancied there was a something of resentment , a something bordering on it in her style , which increased the desirableness of their being separate . 
-- It might be only her own consciousness ; but it seemed as if an angel only could have been quite without resentment under such a stroke . 
She had no difficulty in procuring Isabella 's invitation ; and she was fortunate in having a sufficient reason for asking it , without resorting to invention . 
-- When it was thus settled on her sister 's side , Emma proposed it to her friend , and found her very persuadable . 
Now Emma could , indeed , enjoy Mr. Knightley 's visits ; now she could talk , and she could listen with true happiness , unchecked by that sense of injustice , of guilt , of something most painful , which had haunted her when remembering how disappointed a heart was near her , how much might at that moment , and at a little distance , be enduring by the feelings which she had led astray herself . 
The difference of Harriet at Mrs. Goddard 's , or in London , made perhaps an unreasonable difference in Emma 's sensations ; but she could not think of her in London without objects of curiosity and employment , which must be averting the past , and carrying her out of herself . 
She would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the place in her mind which Harriet had occupied . 
-- No ; she heard nothing but the instant reply of , `` Beg her to walk up ; '' -- and a moment afterwards she was met on the stairs by Jane herself , coming eagerly forward , as if no other reception of her were felt sufficient . 
-- Emma had never seen her look so well , so lovely , so engaging . 
There was consciousness , animation , and warmth ; there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever have wanted . 
-- She came forward with an offered hand ; and said , in a low , but very feeling tone , `` This is most kind , indeed ! 
Emma was gratified , and would soon have shown no want of words , if the sound of Mrs. Elton 's voice from the sitting-room had not checked her , and made it expedient to compress all her friendly and all her congratulatory sensations into a very , very earnest shake of the hand . 
Emma could have wished Mrs. Elton elsewhere ; but she was in a humour to have patience with every body ; and as Mrs. Elton met her with unusual graciousness , she hoped the rencontre would do them no harm . 
Emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face ; and while paying her own compliments to Mrs. Bates , and appearing to attend to the good old lady 's replies , she saw her with a sort of anxious parade of mystery fold up a letter which she had apparently been reading aloud to Miss Fairfax , and return it into the purple and gold ridicule by her side , saying , with significant nods , `` We can finish this some other time , you know . 
And again , on Emma 's merely turning her head to look at Mrs. Bates 's knitting , she added , in a half whisper , `` I mentioned no names , you will observe . 
Emma could not doubt . 
-- And when Mrs. Bates was saying something to Emma , whispered farther , `` We do not say a word of any assistance that Perry might have ; not a word of a certain young physician from Windsor . 
`` I have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you , Miss Woodhouse , '' she shortly afterwards began , `` since the party to Box-Hill . 
Soon after this Miss Bates came in , and Emma could not help being diverted by the perplexity of her first answer to herself , resulting , she supposed , from doubt of what might be said , and impatience to say every thing . 
-- And from her great , her more than commonly thankful delight towards Mrs. Elton for being there , Emma guessed that there had been a little show of resentment towards Jane , from the vicarage quarter , which was now graciously overcome . 
-- And putting up her hand to screen her words from Emma -- `` A congratulatory visit , you know . 
Emma would not have smiled for the world , and only said , `` Is Mr. Elton gone on foot to Donwell ? 
said Emma . 
Emma amused herself by protesting that it was very extraordinary indeed , and that she had not a syllable to say for him . 
Emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly . 
In all probability she was at this very time waited for there ; and Mr. Knightley might be preserved from sinking deeper in aggression towards Mr. Elton , if not towards William Larkins . 
She was pleased , on taking leave , to find Miss Fairfax determined to attend her out of the room , to go with her even down stairs ; it gave her an opportunity which she immediately made use of , to say , `` It is as well , perhaps , that I have not had the possibility . 
cried Jane , with a blush and an hesitation which Emma thought infinitely more becoming to her than all the elegance of all her usual composure -- `` there would have been no danger . 
you are too scrupulous , indeed you are , '' cried Emma , warmly , and taking her hand . 
`` Nothing can be actually settled yet , perhaps , '' replied Emma , smiling -- `` but , excuse me , it must be thought of . '' 
Mrs. Weston 's friends were all made happy by her safety ; and if the satisfaction of her well-doing could be increased to Emma , it was by knowing her to be the mother of a little girl . 
cried Emma ; `` at that rate , what will become of her ? '' 
I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children , my dearest Emma . 
Emma laughed , and replied : `` But I had the assistance of all your endeavours to counteract the indulgence of other people . 
`` I am sure you were of use to me , '' cried Emma . 
I will not promise even to equal the elegant terseness of Mrs. Elton , by calling you Mr. K. -- But I will promise , '' she added presently , laughing and blushing -- `` I will promise to call you once by your Christian name . 
Emma grieved that she could not be more openly just to one important service which his better sense would have rendered her , to the advice which would have saved her from the worst of all her womanly follies -- her wilful intimacy with Harriet Smith ; but it was too tender a subject . 
-- She could not enter on it . 
This , on his side , might merely proceed from her not being thought of ; but Emma was rather inclined to attribute it to delicacy , and a suspicion , from some appearances , that their friendship were declining . 
She was aware herself , that , parting under any other circumstances , they certainly should have corresponded more , and that her intelligence would not have rested , as it now almost wholly did , on Isabella 's letters . 
Emma 's comforts and hopes were most agreeably carried on , by Harriet 's being to stay longer ; her fortnight was likely to be a month at least . 
Emma accepted it with a very eager hand , with an impatience all alive to know what he would say about it , and not at all checked by hearing that her friend was unmentioned . 
`` He writes like a sensible man , '' replied Emma , when she had read the letter . 
`` My Emma , he means no such thing . 
He only means -- '' `` He and I should differ very little in our estimation of the two , '' -- interrupted she , with a sort of serious smile -- `` much less , perhaps , than he is aware of , if we could enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject . '' 
`` Emma , my dear Emma -- '' `` Oh ! '' 
she cried with more thorough gaiety , `` if you fancy your brother does not do me justice , only wait till my dear father is in the secret , and hear his opinion . 
I wish I may not sink into ` poor Emma ' with him at once . 
As soon as Mrs. Weston was sufficiently recovered to admit Mr. Woodhouse 's visits , Emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause , resolved first to announce it at home , and then at Randall 's . 
-- But how to break it to her father at last ! 
-- She had bound herself to do it , in such an hour of Mr. Knightley 's absence , or when it came to the point her heart would have failed her , and she must have put it off ; but Mr. Knightley was to come at such a time , and follow up the beginning she was to make . 
-- She was forced to speak , and to speak cheerfully too . 
She must not make it a more decided subject of misery to him , by a melancholy tone herself . 
She must not appear to think it a misfortune . 
-- With all the spirits she could command , she prepared him first for something strange , and then , in few words , said , that if his consent and approbation could be obtained -- which , she trusted , would be attended with no difficulty , since it was a plan to promote the happiness of all -- she and Mr. Knightley meant to marry ; by which means Hartfield would receive the constant addition of that person 's company whom she knew he loved , next to his daughters and Mrs. Weston , best in the world . 
Emma hung about him affectionately , and smiled , and said it must be so ; and that he must not class her with Isabella and Mrs. Weston , whose marriages taking them from Hartfield , had , indeed , made a melancholy change : but she was not going from Hartfield ; she should be always there ; she was introducing no change in their numbers or their comforts but for the better ; and she was very sure that he would be a great deal the happier for having Mr. Knightley always at hand , when he were once got used to the idea . 
-- He would not deny that he did , she was sure . 
-- To Emma 's entreaties and assurances succeeded Mr. Knightley 's , whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind of welcome ; and he was soon used to be talked to by each , on every fair occasion , -- They had all the assistance which Isabella could give , by letters of the strongest approbation ; and Mrs. Weston was ready , on the first meeting , to consider the subject in the most serviceable light -- first , as a settled , and secondly , as a good one -- well aware of the nearly equal importance of the two recommendations to Mr. Woodhouse 's mind . 
-- She had been extremely surprised , never more so , than when Emma first opened the affair to her ; but she saw in it only increase of happiness to all , and had no scruple in urging him to the utmost . 
-- She had such a regard for Mr. Knightley , as to think he deserved even her dearest Emma ; and it was in every respect so proper , suitable , and unexceptionable a connexion , and in one respect , one point of the highest importance , so peculiarly eligible , so singularly fortunate , that now it seemed as if Emma could not safely have attached herself to any other creature , and that she had herself been the stupidest of beings in not having thought of it , and wished it long ago . 
-- How very few of those men in a rank of life to address Emma would have renounced their own home for Hartfield ! 
-- The difficulty of disposing of poor Mr. Woodhouse had been always felt in her husband 's plans and her own , for a marriage between Frank and Emma . 
It was an alarming change ; and Emma was thinking of it one morning as what must bring a great deal to agitate and grieve her , when Mr. Knightley came in , and distressing thoughts were put by . 
After the first chat of pleasure he was silent ; and then , in a graver tone , began with , `` I have something to tell you , Emma ; some news . '' 
`` I am afraid , '' said he , composing his features , `` I am very much afraid , my dear Emma , that you will not smile when you hear it . '' 
Emma gave a start , which did not seem like being prepared -- and her eyes , in eager gaze , said , `` No , this is impossible ! '' 
but her lips were closed . 
She was still looking at him with the most speaking amazement . 
`` You like it , my Emma , as little as I feared . 
`` You mistake me , you quite mistake me , '' she replied , exerting herself . 
she cried . 
-- Then having recourse to her workbasket , in excuse for leaning down her face , and concealing all the exquisite feelings of delight and entertainment which she knew she must be expressing , she added , `` Well , now tell me every thing ; make this intelligible to me . 
-- Emma dared not attempt any immediate reply . 
To speak , she was sure would be to betray a most unreasonable degree of happiness . 
She must wait a moment , or he would think her mad . 
Her silence disturbed him ; and after observing her a little while , he added , `` Emma , my love , you said that this circumstance would not now make you unhappy ; but I am afraid it gives you more pain than you expected . 
His rank in society I would alter if I could ; which is saying a great deal I assure you , Emma . 
He wanted her to look up and smile ; and having now brought herself not to smile too broadly -- she did -- cheerfully answering , `` You need not be at any pains to reconcile me to the match . 
Emma could not help laughing as she answered , `` Upon my word , I believe you know her quite as well as I do . 
The contrast between the countenance and air of Mr. Knightley and Robert Martin was , at this moment , so strong to Emma 's feelings , and so strong was the recollection of all that had so recently passed on Harriet 's side , so fresh the sound of those words , spoken with such emphasis , `` No , I hope I know better than to think of Robert Martin , '' that she was really expecting the intelligence to prove , in some measure , premature . 
`` I am perfectly satisfied , '' replied Emma , with the brightest smiles , `` and most sincerely wish them happy . '' 
cried Emma , shaking her head . 
She checked herself , however , and submitted quietly to a little more praise than she deserved . 
Their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of her father . 
She was not sorry . 
She wanted to be alone . 
Her mind was in a state of flutter and wonder , which made it impossible for her to be collected . 
She was in dancing , singing , exclaiming spirits ; and till she had moved about , and talked to herself , and laughed and reflected , she could be fit for nothing rational . 
Her father 's business was to announce James 's being gone out to put the horses to , preparatory to their now daily drive to Randall 's ; and she had , therefore , an immediate excuse for disappearing . 
The joy , the gratitude , the exquisite delight of her sensations may be imagined . 
Emma was extremely glad to see him -- but there was a degree of confusion -- a number of embarrassing recollections on each side . 
They met readily and smiling , but with a consciousness which at first allowed little to be said ; and having all sat down again , there was for some time such a blank in the circle , that Emma began to doubt whether the wish now indulged , which she had long felt , of seeing Frank Churchill once more , and of seeing him with Jane , would yield its proportion of pleasure . 
`` No , indeed , '' cried Emma , most happy to begin , `` not in the least . 
He thanked her with all his heart , and continued some time to speak with serious feeling of his gratitude and happiness . 
-- Emma blushed , and forbad its being pronounced in her hearing . 
`` I can never think of it , '' she cried , `` without extreme shame . '' 
`` It is not now worth a regret , '' said Emma . 
Emma spoke her pity so very kindly , that , with a sudden accession of gay thought , he cried , `` Ah ! 
-- She coloured and laughed . 
Emma was delighted , and only wanted him to go on in the same style ; but his mind was the next moment in his own concerns and with his own Jane , and his next words were , `` Did you ever see such a skin ? 
`` I have always admired her complexion , '' replied Emma , archly ; `` but do not I remember the time when you found fault with her for being so pale ? 
-- How could I dare -- '' But he laughed so heartily at the recollection , that Emma could not help saying , `` I do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time , you had very great amusement in tricking us all . 
`` If not in our dispositions , '' she presently added , with a look of true sensibility , `` there is a likeness in our destiny ; the destiny which bids fair to connect us with two characters so much superior to our own . '' 
`` Very beautiful , indeed , '' replied Emma : `` and she spoke so kindly , that he gratefully burst out , `` How delighted I am to see you again ! 
said he to Emma , and trying , as he spoke , to catch Miss Fairfax 's eye . 
Emma soon recollected , and understood him ; and while she joined in the laugh , it was evident from Jane 's countenance that she too was really hearing him , though trying to seem deaf . 
He had a great deal to say in return , and very entertainingly ; but Emma 's feelings were chiefly with Jane , in the argument ; and on leaving Randall 's , and falling naturally into a comparison of the two men , she felt , that pleased as she had been to see Frank Churchill , and really regarding him as she did with friendship , she had never been more sensible of Mr. Knightley 's high superiority of character . 
If Emma had still , at intervals , an anxious feeling for Harriet , a momentary doubt of its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to Mr. Knightley , and really able to accept another man from unbiassed inclination , it was not long that she had to suffer from the recurrence of any such uncertainty . 
Harriet was a little distressed -- did look a little foolish at first ; but having once owned that she had been presumptuous and silly , and self-deceived , before , her pain and confusion seemed to die away with the words , and leave her without a care for the past , and with the fullest exultation in the present and future ; for , as to her friend 's approbation , Emma had instantly removed every fear of that nature , by meeting her with the most unqualified congratulations . 
-- The fact was , as Emma could now acknowledge , that Harriet had always liked Robert Martin ; and that his continuing to love her had been irresistible . 
-- Beyond this , it must ever be unintelligible to Emma . 
The event , however , was most joyful , and every day was giving her fresh reason for thinking so . 
-- Such was the blood of gentility which Emma had formerly been so ready to vouch for ! 
-- It was likely to be as untainted , perhaps , as the blood of many a gentleman : but what a connexion had she been preparing for Mr. Knightley -- or for the Churchills -- or even for Mr. Elton ! 
No objection was raised on the father 's side ; the young man was treated liberally ; it was all as it should be : and as Emma became acquainted with Robert Martin , who was now introduced at Hartfield , she fully acknowledged in him all the appearance of sense and worth which could bid fairest for her little friend . 
She had no doubt of Harriet 's happiness with any good tempered man ; but with him , and in the home he offered , there would be the hope of more , of security , stability , and improvement . 
She would be respectable and happy ; and Emma admitted her to be the luckiest creature in the world , to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man ; -- or , if not quite the luckiest , to yield only to herself . 
-- The intimacy between her and Emma must sink ; their friendship must change into a calmer sort of goodwill ; and , fortunately , what ought to be , and must be , seemed already beginning , and in the most gradual , natural manner . 
Before the end of September , Emma attended Harriet to church , and saw her hand bestowed on Robert Martin with so complete a satisfaction , as no remembrances , even connected with Mr. Elton as he stood before them , could impair . 
-- Perhaps , indeed , at that time she scarcely saw Mr. Elton , but as the clergyman whose blessing at the altar might next fall on herself . 
The intermediate month was the one fixed on , as far as they dared , by Emma and Mr. Knightley . 
