Dorothea knew many passages of Pascal 's Pensées and of Jeremy Taylor by heart ; and to her the destinies of mankind , seen by the light of Christianity , made the solicitudes of feminine fashion appear an occupation for Bedlam . 
She could not reconcile the anxieties of a spiritual life involving eternal consequences , with a keen interest in guimp and artificial protrusions of drapery . 
Her mind was theoretic , and yearned by its nature after some lofty conception of the world which might frankly include the parish of Tipton and her own rule of conduct there ; she was enamoured of intensity and greatness , and rash in embracing whatever seemed to her to have those aspects ; likely to seek martyrdom , to make retractations , and then to incur martyrdom after all in a quarter where she had not sought it . 
In Mr Brooke the hereditary strain of Puritan energy was clearly in abeyance ; but in his niece Dorothea it glowed alike through faults and virtues , turning sometimes into impatience of her uncle 's talk or his way of `` letting things be '' on his estate , and making her long all the more for the time when she would be of age and have some command of money for generous schemes . 
She was regarded as an heiress ; for not only had the sisters seven hundred a-year each from their parents , but if Dorothea married and had a son , that son would inherit Mr Brooke 's estate , presumably worth about three thousand a-year -- a rental which seemed wealth to provincial families , still discussing Mr Peel 's late conduct on the Catholic Question , innocent of future gold-fields , and of that gorgeous plutocracy which has so nobly exalted the necessities of genteel life . 
And how should Dorothea not marry ? 
Nothing could hinder it but her love of extremes , and her insistance on regulating life according to notions which might cause a wary man to hesitate before he made her an offer , or even might lead her at last to refuse all offers . 
A young lady of some birth and fortune , who knelt suddenly down on a brick floor by the side of a sick labourer and prayed fervidly as if she thought herself living in the time of the Apostles -- who had strange whims of fasting like a Papist , and of sitting up at night to read old theological books ! 
Poor Dorothea ! 
compared with her , the innocent-looking Celia was knowing and worldly-wise ; so much subtler is a human mind than the outside tissues which make a sort of blazonry or clock-face for it . 
Yet those who approached Dorothea , though prejudiced against her by this alarming hearsay , found that she had a charm unaccountably reconcilable with it . 
Most men thought her bewitching when she was on horseback . 
She loved the fresh air and the various aspects of the country , and when her eyes and cheeks glowed with mingled pleasure she looked very little like a devotee . 
Riding was an indulgence which she allowed herself in spite of conscientious qualms ; she felt that she enjoyed it in a pagan sensuous way , and always looked forward to renouncing it . 
She was open , ardent , and not in the least self-admiring ; indeed , it was pretty to see how her imagination adorned her sister Celia with attractions altogether superior to her own , and if any gentleman appeared to come to the Grange from some other motive than that of seeing Mr Brooke , she concluded that he must be in love with Celia : Sir James Chettam , for example , whom she constantly considered from Celia 's point of view , inwardly debating whether it would be good for Celia to accept him . 
Dorothea , with all her eagerness to know the truths of life , retained very childlike ideas about marriage . 
She felt sure that she would have accepted the judicious Hooker , if she had been born in time to save him from that wretched mistake he made in matrimony ; or John Milton when his blindness had come on ; or any of the other great men whose odd habits it would have been glorious piety to endure ; but an amiable handsome baronet , who said `` Exactly '' to her remarks even when she expressed uncertainty , -- how could he affect her as a lover ? 
These peculiarities of Dorothea 's character caused Mr Brooke to be all the more blamed in neighbouring families for not securing some middle-aged lady as guide and companion to his nieces . 
But he himself dreaded so much the sort of superior woman likely to be available for such a position , that he allowed himself to be dissuaded by Dorothea 's objections , and was in this case brave enough to defy the world -- that is to say , Mrs Cadwallader the Rector 's wife , and the small group of gentry with whom he visited in the north-east corner of Loamshire . 
Sir James Chettam was going to dine at the Grange to-day with another gentleman whom the girls had never seen , and about whom Dorothea felt some venerating expectation . 
Early in the day Dorothea had returned from the infant school which she had set going in the village , and was taking her usual place in the pretty sitting-room which divided the bedrooms of the sisters , bent on finishing a plan for some buildings -LRB- a kind of work which she delighted in -RRB- , when Celia , who had been watching her with a hesitating desire to propose something , said -- `` Dorothea dear , if you do n't mind -- if you are not very busy -- suppose we looked at mamma 's jewels to-day , and divided them ? 
Celia 's face had the shadow of a pouting expression in it , the full presence of the pout being kept back by an habitual awe of Dorothea and principle ; two associated facts which might show a mysterious electricity if you touched them incautiously . 
To her relief , Dorothea 's eyes were full of laughter as she looked up . 
Dorothea spoke in a full cordial tone , half caressing , half explanatory . 
She had her pencil in her hand , and was making tiny side-plans on a margin . 
exclaimed Dorothea , an air of astonished discovery animating her whole person with a dramatic action which she had caught from that very Madame Poinçon who wore the ornaments . 
She pressed her hands against the sides of her head and seemed to despair of her memory . 
Dorothea immediately took up the necklace and fastened it round her sister 's neck , where it fitted almost as closely as a bracelet ; but the circle suited the Henrietta-Maria style of Celia 's head and neck , and she could see that it did , in the pier - glass opposite . 
`` No , no , dear , no , '' said Dorothea , putting up her hand with careless deprecation . 
Dorothea shuddered slightly . 
`` No , dear , no , '' said Dorothea , stroking her sister 's cheek . 
The complete unfitness of the necklace from all points of view for Dorothea , made Celia happier in taking it . 
said Dorothea , under a new current of feeling , as sudden as the gleam . 
`` They are lovely , '' said Dorothea , slipping the ring and bracelet on her finely-turned finger and wrist , and holding them towards the window on a level with her eyes . 
All the while her thought was trying to justify her delight in the colours by merging them in her mystic religious joy . 
`` You would like those , Dorothea , '' said Celia , rather falteringly , beginning to think with wonder that her sister showed some weakness , and also that emeralds would suit her own complexion even better than purple amethysts . 
I will keep these -- this ring and bracelet , '' said Dorothea . 
Then , letting her hand fall on the table , she said in another tone -- `` Yet what miserable men find such things , and work at them , and sell them ! '' 
She paused again , and Celia thought that her sister was going to renounce the ornaments , as in consistency she ought to do . 
`` Yes , dear , I will keep these , '' said Dorothea , decidedly . 
She took up her pencil without removing the jewels , and still looking at them . 
She thought of often having them by her , to feed her eye at these little fountains of pure colour . 
Dorothea glanced quickly at her sister . 
Across all her imaginative adornment of those whom she loved , there darted now and then a keen discernment , which was not without a scorching quality . 
Dorothea too was unhappy , as she went on with her plan-drawing , questioning the purity of her own feeling and speech in the scene which had ended with that little explosion . 
Celia 's consciousness told her that she had not been at all in the wrong : it was quite natural and justifiable that she should have asked that question , and the repeated to herself that Dorothea was inconsistent : either she should have taken her full share of the jewels , or , after what she had said , she should have renounced them altogether . 
And I do not see that I should be bound by Dorothea 's opinions now we are going into society , though of course she herself ought to be bound by them . 
But Dorothea is not always consistent . '' 
As Celia bent over the paper , Dorothea put her cheek against her sister 's arm caressingly . 
Dorothea saw that she had been in the wrong , and Celia pardoned her . 
Dorothea felt a little more uneasy than usual . 
She wondered how a man like Mr Casaubon would support such triviality . 
His manners , she thought , were very dignified ; the set of his iron-grey hair and his deep eye-sockets made him resemble the portrait of Locke . 
`` Surely , '' said Dorothea , `` it is better to spend money in finding out how men can make the most of the land which supports them all , than in keeping dogs and horses only to gallop over it . 
She spoke with more energy than is expected of so young a lady , but Sir James had appealed to her . 
He was accustomed to do so , and she had often thought that she could urge him to many good actions when he was her brother-in-law . 
Mr Casaubon turned his eyes very markedly on Dorothea while she was speaking , and seemed to observe her newly . 
Dorothea said to herself that Mr Casaubon was the most interesting man she had ever seen , not excepting even Monsieur Liret , the Vaudois clergyman who had given conferences on the history of the Waldenses . 
This elevating thought lifted her above her annoyance at being twitted with her ignorance of political economy , that never-explained science which was thrust as an extinguisher over all her lights . 
I shall not ride any more , '' said Dorothea , urged to this brusque resolution by a little annoyance that Sir James would be soliciting her attention when she wanted to give it all to Mr Casaubon . 
But there may be good reasons for choosing not to do what is very agreeable , '' said Dorothea . 
Mr Brooke was speaking at the same time , but it was evident that Mr Casaubon was observing Dorothea , and she was aware of it . 
I did not say that of myself , '' answered Dorothea , reddening . 
Unlike Celia , she rarely blushed , and only from high delight or anger . 
At this moment she felt angry with the perverse Sir James . 
I have tried pigeon-holes , but everything gets mixed in pigeon-holes : I never know whether a paper is in A or Z. '' `` I wish you would let me sort your papers for you , uncle , '' said Dorothea . 
Dorothea felt hurt . 
Mr Casaubon would think that her uncle had some special reason for delivering this opinion , whereas the remark lay in his mind as lightly as the broken wing of an insect among all the other fragments there , and a chance current had sent it alighting on her . 
when people of a certain sort looked at him , '' said Dorothea , walking away a little . 
`` I wonder you show temper , Dorothea . '' 
`` Yes , I believe he has , '' said Dorothea , with the full voice of decision . 
Celia thought privately , `` Dorothea quite despises Sir James Chettam ; I believe she would not accept him . '' 
`` I am aware of it , '' said Dorothea , coldly . 
Dorothea looked straight before her , and spoke with cold brusquerie , very much with the air of a handsome boy , in amusing contrast with the solicitous amiability of her admirer . 
Dorothea coloured with pleasure , and looked up gratefully to the speaker . 
Dorothea 's inferences may seem large ; but really life could never have gone on at any period but for this liberal allowance of conclusions , which has facilitated marriage under the difficulties of civilisation . 
He was not in the least jealous of the interest with which Dorothea had looked up at Mr Casaubon : it never occurred to him that a girl to whom he was meditating an offer of marriage could care for a dried bookworm towards fifty , except , indeed , in a religious sort of way , as for a clergyman of some distinction . 
Dorothea by this time had looked deep into the ungauged reservoir of Mr Casaubon 's mind , seeing reflected there in vague labyrinthine extension every quality she herself brought ; had opened much of her own experience to him , and had understood from him the scope of his great work , also of attractively labyrinthine extent . 
For he had been as instructive as Milton 's `` affable archangel ; '' and with something of the archangelic manner he told her how he had undertaken to show -LRB- what indeed had been attempted before , but not with that thoroughness , justice of comparison , and effectiveness of arrangement at which Mr Casaubon aimed -RRB- that all the mythical systems or erratic mythical fragments in the world were corruptions of a tradition originally revealed . 
In explaining this to Dorothea , Mr Casaubon expressed himself nearly as he would have done to a fellow-student , for he had not two styles of talking at command : it is true that when he used a Greek or Latin phrase he always gave the English with scrupulous care , but he would probably have done this in any case . 
Dorothea was altogether captivated by the wide embrace of this conception . 
The sanctity seemed no less clearly marked than the learning , for when Dorothea was impelled to open her mind on certain themes which she could speak of to no one whom she had before seen at Tipton , especially on the secondary importance of ecclesiastical forms and articles of belief compared with that spiritual religion , that submergence of self in communion with Divine perfection which seemed to her to be expressed in the best Christian books of widely-distant ages , she found in Mr Casaubon a listener who understood her at once , who could assure her of his own agreement with that view when duly tempered with wise conformity , and could mention historical examples before unknown to her . 
`` He thinks with me , '' said Dorothea to herself , `` or rather , he thinks a whole world of which my thought is but a poor twopenny mirror . 
Was his endurance aided also by the reflection that Mr Brooke was the uncle of Dorothea ? 
Certainly he seemed more and more bent on making her talk to him , on drawing her out , as Celia remarked to herself ; and in looking at her , his face was often lit up by a smile like pale wintry sunshine . 
But in this case Mr Casaubon 's confidence was not likely to be falsified , for Dorothea heard and retained what he said with the eager interest of a fresh young nature to which every variety in experience is an epoch . 
It was three o'clock in the beautiful breezy autumn day when Mr Casaubon drove off to his Rectory at Lowick , only five miles from Tipton ; and Dorothea , who had on her bonnet and shawl , hurried along the shrubbery and across the park that she might wander through the bordering wood with no other visible companionship than that of Monk , the Great St Bernard dog , who always took care of the young ladies in their walks . 
There had risen before her the girl 's vision of a possible future for herself to which she looked forward with trembling hope , and she wanted to wander on in that visionary future without interruption . 
She walked briskly in the brisk air , the colour rose in her cheeks , and her straw-bonnet -LRB- which our contemporaries might look at with conjectural curiosity as at an obsolete form of basket -RRB- fell a little backward . 
She would perhaps be hardly characterised enough if it were omitted that she wore her brown hair flatly braided and coiled behind so as to expose the outline of her head in a daring manner at a time when public feeling required the meagreness of nature to be dissimulated by tall barricades of frizzed curls and bows , never surpassed by any great race except the Feejeean . 
It had now entered Dorothea 's mind that Mr Casaubon might wish to make her his wife , and the idea that he would do so touched her with a sort of reverential gratitude . 
How good of him -- nay , it would be almost as if a winged messenger had suddenly stood beside her path and held out his hand towards her ! 
For a long while she had been oppressed by the indefiniteness which hung in her mind , like a thick summer haze , over all her desire to make her life greatly effective . 
What could she do , what ought she to do ? 
-- she , hardly more than a budding woman , but yet with an active conscience and a great mental need , not to be satisfied by a girlish instruction comparable to the nibblings and judgments of a discursive mouse . 
With some endowment of stupidity and conceit , she might have thought that a Christian young lady of fortune should find her ideal of life in village charities , patronage of the humbler clergy , the perusal of ` Female Scripture Characters , ' unfolding the private experience of Sara under the Old Dispensation , and Dorcas under the New , and the care of her soul over her embroidery in her own boudoir -- with a background of prospective marriage to a man who , if less strict than herself , as being involved in affairs religiously inexplicable , might be prayed for and seasonably exhorted . 
From such contentment poor Dorothea was shut out . 
The intensity of her religious disposition , the coercion it exercised over her life , was but one aspect of a nature altogether ardent , theoretic , and intellectually consequent : and with such a nature , struggling in the bands of a narrow teaching , hemmed in by a social life which seemed nothing but a labyrinth of petty courses , a walled-in maze of small paths that led no whither , the outcome was sure to strike others as at once exaggeration and inconsistency . 
The thing which seemed to her best , she wanted to justify by the completest knowledge ; and not to live in a pretended admission of rules which were never acted on . 
Into this soul-hunger as yet all her youthful passion was poured ; the union which attracted her was one that would deliver her from her girlish subjection to her own ignorance , and give her the freedom of voluntary submission to a guide who would take her along the grandest path . 
`` I should learn everything then , '' she said to herself , still walking quickly along the bridle road through the wood . 
Dorothea checked herself suddenly with self-rebuke for the presumptuous way in which she was reckoning on uncertain events , but she was spared any inward effort to change the direction of her thoughts by the appearance of a cantering horseman round a turning of the road . 
He discerned Dorothea , jumped off his horse at once , and , having delivered it to his groom , advanced towards her with something white on his arm , at which the two setters were barking in an excited manner . 
`` It is painful to me to see these creatures that are bred merely as pets , '' said Dorothea , whose opinion was forming itself that very moment -LRB- as opinions will -RRB- under the heat of irritation . 
`` Do you know , I envy you that , '' Sir James said , as they continued walking at the rather brisk pace set by Dorothea . 
Dorothea felt that she was rather rude . 
yes , indeed , '' said Dorothea , energetically , forgetting her previous small vexations . 
Dorothea was in the best temper now . 
The Maltese puppy was not offered to Celia ; an omission which Dorothea afterwards thought of with surprise ; but she blamed herself for it . 
She had been engrossing Sir James . 
But on safe opportunities , she had an indirect mode of making her negative wisdom tell upon Dorothea , and calling her down from her rhapsodic mood by reminding her that people were staring , not listening . 
Thus Dorothea had three more conversations with him , and was convinced that her first impressions had been just . 
He was all she had at first imagined him to be : almost everything he had said seemed like a specimen from a mine , or the inscription on the door of a museum which might open on the treasures of past ages ; and this trust in his mental wealth was all the deeper and more effective on her inclination because it was now obvious that his visits were made for her sake . 
This accomplished man condescended to think of a young girl , and take the pains to talk to her , not with absurd compliment , but with an appeal to her understanding , and sometimes with instructive correction . 
To Dorothea this was adorable genuineness , and religious abstinence from that artificiality which uses up the soul in the efforts of pretence . 
For she looked as reverently at Mr Casaubon 's religious elevation above herself as she did at his intellect and learning . 
He assented to her expressions of devout feeling , and usually with an appropriate quotation ; he allowed himself to say that he had gone through some spiritual conflicts in his youth ; in short , Dorothea saw that here she might reckon on understanding , sympathy , and guidance . 
On one -- only one -- of her favourite themes she was disappointed . 
After he was gone , Dorothea dwelt with some agitation on this indifference of his ; and her mind was much exercised with arguments drawn from the varying conditions of climate which modify human needs , and from the admitted wickedness of pagan despots . 
Should she not urge these arguments on Mr Casaubon when he came again ? 
But further reflection told her that she was presumptuous in demanding his attention to such a subject ; he would not disapprove of her occupying herself with it in leisure moments , as other women expected to occupy themselves with their dress and embroidery -- would not forbid it when -- Dorothea felt rather ashamed as she detected herself in these speculations . 
But her uncle had been invited to go to Lowick to stay a couple of days : was it reasonable to suppose that Mr Casaubon delighted in Mr Brooke 's society for its own sake , either with or without documents ? 
Meanwhile that little disappointment made her delight the more in Sir James Chettam 's readiness to set on foot the desired improvements . 
He came much oftener than Mr Casaubon , and Dorothea ceased to find him disagreeable since he showed himself so entirely in earnest ; for he had already entered with much practical ability into Lovegood 's estimates , and was charmingly docile . 
She proposed to build a couple of cottages , and transfer two families from their old cabins , which could then be pulled down , so that new ones could be built on the old sites . 
Sir James said , `` Exactly , '' and she bore the word remarkably well . 
It is difficult to say whether there was or was not a little wilfulness in her continuing blind to the possibility that another sort of choice was in question in relation to her . 
But her life was just now full of hope and action : she was not only thinking of her plans , but getting down learned books from the library and reading many things hastily -LRB- that she might be a little less ignorant in talking to Mr Casaubon -RRB- , all the while being visited with conscientious questionings whether she were not exalting these poor doings above measure and contemplating them with that self-satisfaction which was the last doom of ignorance and folly . 
`` He is a good creature , and more sensible than any one would imagine , '' said Dorothea , inconsiderately . 
`` No , no , '' said Dorothea , recollecting herself , and laying her hand on her sister 's a moment , `` but he does not talk equally well on all subjects . '' 
Dorothea laughed . 
She pinched Celia 's chin , being in the mood now to think her very winning and lovely -- fit hereafter to be an eternal cherub , and if it were not doctrinally wrong to say so , hardly more in need of salvation than a squirrel . 
Dorothea had never hinted this before , waiting , from a certain shyness on such subjects which was mutual between the sisters , until it should be introduced by some decisive event . 
said Dorothea , indignantly , not the less angry because details asleep in her memory were now awakened to confirm the unwelcome revelation . 
The revulsion was so strong and painful in Dorothea 's mind that the tears welled up and flowed abundantly . 
All her dear plans were embittered , and she thought with disgust of Sir James 's conceiving that she recognised him as her lover . 
said Dorothea , passionately . 
`` Dear me , Dorothea , I suppose it would be right for you to be fond of a man whom you accepted for a husband . '' 
`` It is very painful , '' said Dorothea , feeling scourged . 
Her eyes filled again with tears . 
No more was said : Dorothea was too much jarred to recover her temper and behave so as to show that she admitted any error in herself . 
She was disposed rather to accuse the intolerable narrowness and the purblind conscience of the society around her : and Celia was no longer the eternal cherub , but a thorn in her spirit , a pink-and-white nullifidian , worse than any discouraging presence in the ` Pilgrim 's Progress . ' 
She was an image of sorrow , and her uncle who met her in the hall would have been alarmed , if Celia had not been close to her looking so pretty and composed , that he at once concluded Dorothea 's tears to have their origin in her excessive religiousness . 
And I have brought a couple of pamphlets for you , Dorothea -- in the library , you know ; they lie on the table in the library . '' 
It seemed as if an electric stream went through Dorothea , thrilling her from despair into expectation . 
Mr Brooke was detained by a message , but when he re-entered the library , he found Dorothea seated and already deep in one of the pamphlets which had some marginal manuscript of Mr Casaubon 's , -- taking it in as eagerly as she might have taken in the scent of a fresh bouquet after a dry , hot , dreary walk . 
She was getting away from Tipton and Freshitt , and her own sad liability to tread in the wrong places on her way to the New Jerusalem . 
Mr Brooke sat down in his arm-chair , stretched his legs towards the wood-fire , which had fallen into a wondrous mass of glowing dice between the dogs , and rubbed his hands gently , looking very mildly towards Dorothea , but with a neutral leisurely air , as if he had nothing particular to say . 
Dorothea closed her pamphlet , as soon as she was aware of her uncle 's presence , and rose as if to go . 
Usually she would have been interested about her uncle 's merciful errand on behalf of the criminal , but her late agitation had made her absent-minded . 
`` I came back by Lowick , you know , '' said Mr Brooke , not as if with any intention to arrest her departure , but apparently from his usual tendency to say what he had said before . 
Dorothea felt quite inclined to accept the invitation . 
Sometimes , when her uncle 's easy way of taking things did not happen to be exasperating , it was rather soothing . 
She threw off her mantle and bonnet , and sat down opposite to him , enjoying the glow , but lifting up her beautiful hands for a screen . 
She seemed to be holding them up in propitiation for her passionate desire to know and to think , which in the unfriendly mediums of Tipton and Freshitt had issued in crying and red eyelids . 
She bethought herself now of the condemned criminal . 
Dorothea 's brow took an expression of reprobation and pity . 
`` It would be a great honour to any one to be his companion , said Dorothea , energetically . 
Dorothea could not speak . 
Since Dorothea did not speak immediately , he repeated , `` I thought it better to tell you , my dear . '' 
`` Thank you , uncle , '' said Dorothea , in a clear unwavering tone . 
`` It is impossible that I should ever marry Sir James Chettam , '' said Dorothea . 
`` Pray do not mention him in that light again , uncle , '' said Dorothea , feeling some of her late irritation revive . 
`` I should not wish to have a husband very near my own age , '' said Dorothea , with grave decision . 
I never thought of it as mere personal ease , '' said poor Dorothea . 
`` I should be all the happier , uncle , the more room there was for me to help him , '' said Dorothea , ardently . 
Mr Brooke handed the letter to Dorothea , but as she rose to go away , he added , `` There is not too much hurry , my dear . 
When Dorothea had left him , he reflected that he had certainly spoken strongly : he had put the risks of marriage before her in a striking manner . 
Dorothea trembled while she read this letter ; then she fell on her knees , buried her face , and sobbed . 
She could not pray ; under the rush of solemn emotion in which thoughts became vague and images floated uncertainly , she could but cast herself , with a childlike sense of reclining , in the lap of a divine consciousness which sustained her own . 
She remained in that attitude till it was time to dress for dinner . 
How could it occur to her to examine the letter , to look at it critically as a profession of love ? 
Her whole soul was possessed by the fact that a fuller life was opening before her : she was a neophyte about to enter on a higher grade of initiation . 
She was going to have room for the energies which stirred uneasily under the dimness and pressure of her own ignorance and the petty peremptoriness of the world 's habits . 
Now she would be able to devote herself to large yet definite duties ; now she would be allowed to live continually in the light of a mind that she could reverence . 
This hope was not unmixed with the glow of proud delight -- the joyous maiden surprise that she was chosen by the man whom her admiration had chosen . 
All Dorothea 's passion was transfused through a mind struggling towards an ideal life ; the radiance of her transfigured girlhood fell on the first object that came within its level . 
The impetus with which inclination became resolution was heightened by those little events of the day which had roused her discontent with the actual conditions of her life . 
After dinner , when Celia was playing an `` air , with variations , '' a small kind of tinkling which symbolised the æsthetic part of the young ladies ' education , Dorothea went up to her room to answer Mr Casaubon 's letter . 
Why should she defer the answer ? 
She wrote it over three times , not because she wished to change the wording , but because her hand was unusually uncertain , and she could not bear that Mr Casaubon should think her handwriting bad and illegible . 
She piqued herself on writing a hand in which each letter was distinguishable without any large range of conjecture , and she meant to make much use of this accomplishment , to save Mr Casaubon 's eyes . 
Three times she wrote . 
If I said more , it would only be the same thing written out at greater length , for I can not now dwell on any other thought than that I may be through life , yours devotedly , Dorothea Brooke . 
Later in the evening she followed her uncle into the library to give him the letter , that he might send it in the morning . 
He was surprised , but his surprise only issued in a few moments ' silence , during which he pushed about various objects on his writing-table , and finally stood with his back to the fire , his glasses on his nose , looking at the address of Dorothea 's letter . 
`` There is nothing that I like in him , '' said Dorothea , rather impetuously . 
Dorothea immediately felt some self-rebuke , and said -- `` I mean in the light of a husband . 
She attributed Dorothea 's abstracted manner , and the evidence of further crying since they had got home , to the temper she had been in about Sir James Chettam and the buildings , and was careful not to give further offence : having once said what she wanted to say , Celia had no disposition to recur to disagreeable subjects . 
And as to Dorothea , it had always been her way to find something wrong in her sister 's words , though Celia inwardly protested that she always said just how things were , and nothing else : she never did and never could put words together out of her own head . 
Now , though they had hardly spoken to each other all the evening , yet when Celia put by her work , intending to go to bed , a proceeding in which she was always much the earlier , Dorothea , who was seated on a low stool , unable to occupy herself except in meditation , said , with the musical intonation which in moments of deep but quiet feeling made her speech like a fine bit of recitative -- `` Celia , dear , come and kiss me , '' holding her arms open as she spoke . 
Celia knelt down to get the right level and gave her little butterfly kiss , while Dorothea encircled her with gentle arms and pressed her lips gravely on each cheek in turn . 
`` No , dear , I am very , very happy , '' said Dorothea , fervently . 
Mr Brooke read the letter , and then , nodding toward Dorothea , said `` Casaubon , my dear : he will be here to dinner ; he did n't wait to write more -- did n't wait , you know . '' 
It could not seem remarkable to Celia that a dinner guest should be announced to her sister beforehand , but , her eyes following the same direction as her uncle 's , she was struck with the peculiar effect of the announcement on Dorothea . 
It seemed as if something like the reflection of a white sunlit wing had passed across her features , ending in one of her rare blushes . 
Dorothea had never been tired of listening to old Monsieur Liret when Celia 's feet were as cold as possible , and when it had really become dreadful to see the skin of his bald head moving about . 
Not that she now imagined Mr Casaubon to be already an accepted lover : she had only begun to feel disgust at the possibility that anything in Dorothea 's mind could tend towards such an issue . 
Here was something really to vex her about Dodo : it was all very well not to accept Sir James Chettam , but the idea of marrying Mr Casaubon ! 
The day was damp , and they were not going to walk out , so they both went up to their sitting-room ; and there Celia observed that Dorothea , instead of settling down with her usual diligent interest to some occupation , simply leaned her elbow on an open book and looked out of the window at the great cedar silvered with the damp . 
She herself had taken up the making of a toy for the curate 's children , and was not going to enter on any subject too precipitately . 
Dorothea was in fact thinking that it was desirable for Celia to know of the momentous change in Mr Casaubon 's position since he had last been in the house : it did not seem fair to leave her in ignorance of what would necessarily affect her attitude towards him ; but it was impossible not to shrink from telling her . 
Dorothea accused herself of some meanness in this timidity : it was always odious to her to have any small fears or contrivances about her actions , but at this moment she was seeking the highest aid possible that she might not dread the corrosiveness of Celia 's pretty carnally-minded prose . 
`` Celia , '' said Dorothea , with emphatic gravity , `` pray do n't make any more observations of that kind . '' 
Dorothea 's feelings had gathered to an avalanche , and there could be no further preparation . 
Dorothea was still hurt and agitated . 
In spite of this magnanimity Dorothea was still smarting : perhaps as much from Celia 's subdued astonishment as from her small criticisms . 
Dorothea knew of no one who thought as she did about life and its best objects . 
Nevertheless before the evening was at an end she was very happy . 
In an hour 's tête-à-tête with Mr Casaubon she talked to him with more freedom than she had ever felt before , even pouring out her joy at the thought of devoting herself to him , and of learning how she might best share and further all his great ends . 
`` My dear young lady -- Miss Brooke -- Dorothea ! '' 
he said , pressing her hand between his hands , `` this is a happiness greater than I had ever imagined to be in reserve for me . 
Dorothea 's faith supplied all that Mr Casaubon 's words seemed to leave unsaid : what believer sees a disturbing omission or infelicity ? 
`` I am very ignorant -- you will quite wonder at my ignorance , '' said Dorothea . 
But , '' she added , with rapid imagination of Mr Cassaubon 's probable feeling , `` I will not trouble you too much ; only when you are inclined to listen to me . 
said Mr Casaubon , kissing her candid brow , and feeling that heaven had vouchsafed him a blessing in every way suited to his peculiar wants . 
It was this which made Dorothea so childlike , and , according to some judges , so stupid , with all her reputed cleverness ; as for example , in the present case of throwing herself , metaphorically speaking , at Mr Casaubon 's feet , and kissing his unfashionable shoe-ties as if he were a Protestant Pope . 
She was not in the least teaching Mr Casaubon to ask if he were good enough for her , but merely asking herself anxiously how she could be good enough for Mr Casaubon . 
Mr Brooke again winced inwardly , for Dorothea 's engagement had no sooner been decided , than he had thought of Mrs Cadwallader 's prospective taunts . 
Mrs Cadwallader 's mind was rapidly surveying the possibilities of choice for Dorothea . 
`` I am so sorry for Dorothea . '' 
It is her doing , I suppose . '' 
`` Yes ; she says Mr Casaubon has a great soul . '' 
Only , '' Celia added , with a slight blush -LRB- she sometimes seemed to blush as she breathed -RRB- , `` I do n't think he would have suited Dorothea . '' 
She thinks so much about everything , and is so particular about what one says . 
Sir James never seemed to please her . '' 
`` She must have encouraged him , I am sure . 
`` Please do n't be angry with Dodo ; she does not see things . 
She thought so much about the cottages , and she was rude to Sir James sometimes ; but he is so kind , he never noticed it . '' 
`` Brooke ought not to allow it : he should insist on its being put off till she is of age . 
She would think better of it then . 
However , if I were a man I should prefer Celia , especially when Dorothea was gone . 
I can see that she admires you almost as much as a man expects to be admired . 
From the first arrival of the young ladies in Tipton she had prearranged Dorothea 's marriage with Sir James , and if it had taken place would have been quite sure that it was her doing : that it should not take place after she had preconceived it , caused her an irritation which every thinker will sympathise with . 
`` However , '' said Mrs Cadwallader , first to herself and afterwards to her husband , `` I throw her over : there was a chance , if she had married Sir James , of her becoming a sane , sensible woman . 
He would never have contradicted her , and when a woman is not contradicted , she has no motive for obstinacy in her absurdities . 
Already the knowledge that Dorothea had chosen Mr Casaubon had bruised his attachment and relaxed its hold . 
He could not help rejoicing that he had never made the offer and been rejected ; mere friendly politeness required that he should call to see Dorothea about the cottages , and now happily Mrs Cadwallader had prepared him to offer his congratulations , if necessary , without showing too much awkwardness . 
He really did not like it : giving up Dorothea was very painful to him ; but there was something in the resolve to make this visit forthwith and conquer all show of feeling , which was a sort of file-biting and counter-irritant . 
It had once or twice crossed his mind that possibly there was some deficiency in Dorothea to account for the moderation of his abandonment ; but he was unable to discern the deficiency , or to figure to himself a woman who would have pleased him better ; so that there was clearly no reason to fall back upon but the exaggerations of human tradition . 
said Dorothea to him , one morning , early in the time of courtship ; `` could I not learn to read Latin and Greek aloud to you , as Milton 's daughters did to their father , without understanding what they read ? '' 
Dorothea seized this as a precious permission . 
She would not have asked Mr Casaubon at once to teach her the languages , dreading of all things to be tiresome instead of helpful ; but it was not entirely out of devotion to her future husband that she wished to know Latin and Greek . 
Those provinces of masculine knowledge seemed to her a standing-ground from which all truth could be seen more truly . 
As it was , she constantly doubted her own conclusions , because she felt her own ignorance : how could she be confident that one-roomed cottages were not for the glory of God , when men who knew the classics appeared to conciliate indifference to the cottages with zeal for the glory ? 
And she had not reached that point of renunciation at which she would have been satisfied with having a wise husband : she wished , poor child , to be wise herself . 
But Dorothea herself was a little shocked and discouraged at her own stupidity , and the answers she got to some timid questions about the value of the Greek accents gave her a painful suspicion that here indeed there might be secrets not capable of explanation to a woman 's reason . 
`` Dorothea is learning to read the characters simply , '' said Mr Casaubon , evading the question . 
`` She had the very considerate thought of saving my eyes . '' 
`` Mr Casaubon is not fond of the piano , and I am very glad he is not , '' said Dorothea , whose slight regard for domestic music and feminine fine art must be forgiven her , considering the small tinkling and smearing in which they chiefly consisted at that dark period . 
She smiled and looked up at her betrothed with grateful eyes . 
If he had always been asking her to play the `` Last Rose of Summer , '' she would have required much resignation . 
`` No ; but music of that sort I should enjoy , '' said Dorothea . 
`` Casaubon , she will be in your hands now : you must teach my niece to take things more quietly , eh , Dorothea ? '' 
`` It is wonderful , though , '' he said to himself as he shuffled out of the room -- `` it is wonderful that she should have liked him . 
It was wonderful to Sir James Chettam how well he continued to like going to the Grange after he had once encountered the difficulty of seeing Dorothea for the first time in the light of a woman who was engaged to another man . 
He had no sense of being eclipsed by Mr Casaubon ; he was only shocked that Dorothea was under a melancholy illusion , and his mortification lost some of its bitterness by being mingled with compassion . 
Nevertheless , while Sir James said to himself that he had completely resigned her , since with the perversity of a Desdemona she had not affected a proposed match that was clearly suitable and according to nature ; he could not yet be quite passive under the idea of her engagement to Mr Casaubon . 
She has been wanting me to go and lecture Brooke ; and I have reminded her that her friends had a very poor opinion of the match she made when she married me . '' 
It was a sign of his good disposition that he did not slacken at all in his intention of carrying out Dorothea 's design of the cottages . 
She was now enough aware of Sir James 's position with regard to her , to appreciate the rectitude of his perseverance in a landlord 's duty , to which he had at first been urged by a lover 's complaisance , and her pleasure in it was great enough to count for something even in her present happiness . 
Perhaps she gave to Sir James Chettam 's cottages all the interest she could spare from Mr Casaubon , or rather from the symphony of hopeful dreams , admiring trust , and passionate self-devotion which that learned gentleman had set playing in her soul . 
Hence it happened that in the good baronet 's succeeding visits , while he was beginning to pay small attentions to Celia , he found himself talking with more and more pleasure to Dorothea . 
She was perfectly unconstrained and without irritation towards him now , and he was gradually discovering the delight there is in frank kindness and companionship between a man and a woman who have no passion to hide or confess . 
On a grey but dry November morning Dorothea drove to Lowick in company with her uncle and Celia . 
Dorothea , on the contrary , found the house and grounds all that she could wish : the dark book-shelves in the long library , the carpets and curtains with colours subdued by time , the curious old maps and bird 's - eye views on the walls of the corridor , with here and there an old vase below , had no oppression for her , and seemed more cheerful than the casts and pictures at the Grange , which her uncle had long ago brought home from his travels -- they being probably among the ideas he had taken in at one time . 
To poor Dorothea these severe classical nudities and smirking Renaissance-Correggiosities were painfully inexplicable , staring into the midst of her Puritanic conceptions : she had never been taught how she could bring them into any sort of relevance with her life . 
Dorothea walked about the house with delightful emotion . 
Everything seemed hallowed to her : this was to be the home of her wifehood , and she looked up with eyes full of confidence to Mr Casaubon when he drew her attention specially to some actual arrangement and asked her if she would like an alteration . 
All appeals to her taste she met gratefully , but saw nothing to alter . 
His efforts at exact courtesy and formal tenderness had no defect for her . 
She filled up all blanks with unmanifested perfections , interpreting him as she interpreted the works of Providence , and accounting for seeming discords by her own deafness to the higher harmonies . 
`` Now , my dear Dorothea , I wish you to favour me by pointing out which room you would like to have as your boudoir , '' said Mr Casaubon , showing that his views of the womanly nature were sufficiently large to include that requirement . 
`` It is very kind of you to think of that , '' said Dorothea , `` but I assure you I would rather have all those matters decided for me . 
`` No , uncle , '' said Dorothea , eagerly . 
she added , looking at Mr Casaubon . 
`` This is your mother , '' said Dorothea , who had turned to examine the group of miniatures . 
`` It is a peculiar face , '' said Dorothea , looking closely . 
`` You did not mention her to me , '' said Dorothea . 
Dorothea wondered a little , but felt that it would be indelicate just then to ask for any information which Mr Casaubon did not proffer , and she turned to the window to admire the view . 
said Dorothea . 
By the way , it will suit you , Dorothea ; for the cottages are like a row of alms-houses -- little gardens , gillyflowers , that sort of thing . '' 
`` Yes , please , '' said Dorothea , looking at Mr Casaubon , `` I should like to see all that . '' 
She had got nothing from him more graphic about the Lowick cottages than that they were `` not bad . '' 
Celia , who had been hanging a little in the rear , came up presently , when she saw that Mr Casaubon was gone away , and said in her easy staccato , which always seemed to contradict the suspicion of any malicious intent -- `` Do you know , Dorothea , I saw some one quite young coming up one of the walks . '' 
Mr Tucker was invaluable in their walk ; and perhaps Mr Casaubon had not been without foresight on this head , the curate being able to answer all Dorothea 's questions about the villagers and the other parishioners . 
Everybody , he assured her , was well off in Lowick : not a cottager in those double cottages at a low rent but kept a pig , and the strips of garden at the back were well tended . 
`` I think it was a very cheap wish of his , '' said Dorothea , indignantly . 
Dorothea sank into silence on the way back to the house . 
She felt some disappointment , of which she was yet ashamed , that there was nothing for her to do in Lowick ; and in the next few minutes her mind had glanced over the possibility , which she would have preferred , of finding that her home would be in a parish which had a larger share of the world 's misery , so that she might have had more active duties in it . 
Then , recurring to the future actually before her , she made a picture of more complete devotion to Mr Casaubon 's aims , in which she would await new duties . 
Many such might reveal themselves to the higher knowledge gained by her in that companionship . 
Mr Tucker soon left them , having some clerical work which would not allow him to lunch at the Hall ; and as they were re-entering the garden through the little gate , Mr Casaubon said -- `` You seem a little sad , Dorothea . 
`` I am feeling something which is perhaps foolish and wrong , '' answered Dorothea , with her usual openness -- `` almost wishing that the people wanted more to be done for them here . 
`` Indeed , I believe that , '' said Dorothea , earnestly . 
Dorothea was not at all tired , and a little circuit was made towards a fine yew-tree , the chief hereditary glory of the grounds on this side of the house . 
They had come very near when Mr Casaubon answered -- `` That is a young relative of mine , a second cousin : the grandson , in fact , '' he added , looking at Dorothea , `` of the lady whose portrait you have been noticing , my aunt Julia . '' 
`` Dorothea , let me introduce to you my cousin , Mr Ladislaw . 
The cousin was so close now , that , when he lifted his hat , Dorothea could see a pair of grey eyes rather near together , a delicate irregular nose with a little ripple in it , and hair falling backward ; but there was a mouth and chin of a more prominent , threatening aspect than belonged to the type of the grandmother 's miniature . 
`` I am no judge of these things , '' said Dorothea , not coldly , but with an eager deprecation of the appeal to her . 
Dorothea looked up at Mr Casaubon , who bowed his head towards her , while Mr Brooke said , smiling nonchalantly -- `` Bless me , now , how different people are ! 
You will come to my house , I hope , and I will show you what I did in this way , '' he continued , turning to young Ladislaw , who had to be recalled from his preoccupation in observing Dorothea . 
Ladislaw had made up his mind that she must be an unpleasant girl , since she was going to marry Casaubon , and what she said of her stupidity about pictures would have confirmed that opinion even if he had believed her . 
As it was , he took her words for a covert judgment , and was certain that she thought his sketch detestable . 
There was too much cleverness in her apology : she was laughing both at her uncle and himself . 
I am therefore bound to fulfil the expectation so raised , '' said Mr Casaubon , putting his conduct in the light of mere rectitude : a trait of delicacy which Dorothea noticed with admiration . 
`` Perhaps he has conscientious scruples founded on his own unfitness , '' said Dorothea , who was interesting herself in finding a favourable explanation . 
`` That is very kind of you , '' said Dorothea , looking up at Mr Casaubon with delight . 
`` I suppose it is being engaged to be married that has made you think patience good , '' said Celia , as soon as she and Dorothea were alone together , taking off their wrappings . 
Celia had become less afraid of `` saying things '' to Dorothea since this engagement : cleverness seemed to her more pitiable than ever . 
If to Dorothea Mr Casaubon had been the mere occasion which had set alight the fine inflammable material of her youthful illusions , does it follow that he was fairly represented in the minds of those less impassioned personages who have hitherto delivered their judgments concerning him ? 
He could not but wish that Dorothea should think him not less happy than the world would expect her successful suitor to be ; and in relation to his authorship he leaned on her young trust and veneration , he liked to draw forth her fresh interest in listening , as a means of encouragement to himself : in talking to her he presented all his performance and intention with the reflected confidence of the pedagogue , and rid himself for the time of that chilling ideal audience which crowded his laborious uncreative hours with the vaporous pressure of Tartarean shades . 
For to Dorothea , after that toy-box history of the world adapted to young ladies which had made the chief part of her education , Mr Casaubon 's talk about his great book was full of new vistas ; and this sense of revelation , this surprise of a nearer introduction to Stoics and Alexandrians , as people who had ideas not totally unlike her own , kept in abeyance for the time her usual eagerness for a binding theory which could bring her own life and doctrine into strict connection with that amazing past , and give the remotest sources of knowledge some bearing on her actions . 
That more complete teaching would come -- Mr Casaubon would tell her all that : she was looking forward to higher initiation in ideas , as she was looking forward to marriage , and blending her dim conceptions of both . 
It would be a great mistake to suppose that Dorothea would have cared about any share in Mr Casaubon 's learning as mere accomplishment ; for though opinion in the neighbourhood of Freshitt and Tipton had pronounced her clever , that epithet would not have described her to circles in whose more precise vocabulary cleverness implies mere aptitude for knowing and doing , apart from character . 
All her eagerness for acquirement lay within that full current of sympathetic motive in which her ideas and impulses were habitually swept along . 
She did not want to deck herself with knowledge -- to wear it loose from the nerves and blood that fed her action ; and if she had written a book she must have done it as Saint Theresa did , under the command of an authority that constrained her conscience . 
Thus in these brief weeks Dorothea 's joyous grateful expectation was unbroken , and however her lover might occasionally be conscious of flatness , he could never refer it to any slackening of her affectionate interest . 
`` I still regret that your sister is not to accompany us , '' he said one morning , some time after it had been ascertained that Celia objected to go , and that Dorothea did not wish for her companionship . 
`` You will have many lonely hours , Dorothea , for I shall be constrained to make the utmost use of my time during our stay in Rome , and I should feel more at liberty if you had a companion . '' 
The words `` I should feel more at liberty '' grated on Dorothea . 
For the first time in speaking to Mr Casaubon she coloured from annoyance . 
`` You must have misunderstood me very much , '' she said , `` if you think I should not enter into the value of your time -- if you think that I should not willingly give up whatever interfered with your using it to the best purpose . '' 
`` That is very amiable in you , my dear Dorothea , '' said Mr Casaubon , not in the least noticing that she was hurt ; `` but if you had a lady as your companion , I could put you both under the care of a cicerone , and we could thus achieve two purposes in the same space of time . '' 
`` I beg you will not refer to this again , '' said Dorothea , rather haughtily . 
But immediately she feared that she was wrong , and turning towards him she laid her hand on his , adding in a different tone , `` Pray do not be anxious about me . 
There was to be a dinner-party that day , the last of the parties which were held at the Grange as proper preliminaries to the wedding , and Dorothea was glad of a reason for moving away at once on the sound of the bell , as if she needed more than her usual amount of preparation . 
She was ashamed of being irritated from some cause she could not define even to herself ; for though she had no intention to be untruthful , her reply had not touched the real hurt within her . 
`` Surely I am in a strangely selfish weak state of mind , '' she said to herself . 
Having convinced herself that Mr Casaubon was altogether right , she recovered her equanimity , and was an agreeable image of serene dignity when she came into the drawing-room in her silver-grey dress -- the simple lines of her dark-brown hair parted over her brow and coiled massively behind , in keeping with the entire absence from her manner and expression of all search after mere effect . 
Sometimes when Dorothea was in company , there seemed to be as complete an air of repose about her as if she had been a picture of Santa Barbara looking out from her tower into the clear air ; but these intervals of quietude made the energy of her speech and emotion the more remarked when some outward appeal had touched her . 
In fact , Mrs Cadwallader said that Brooke was beginning to treat the Middlemarchers , and that she preferred the farmers at the tithe-dinner , who drank her health unpretentiously , and were not ashamed of their grandfathers ' furniture . 
When George the Fourth was still reigning over the privacies of Windsor , when the Duke of Wellington was Prime Minister , and Mr Vincy was mayor of the old corporation in Middlemarch , Mrs Casaubon , born Dorothea Brooke , had taken her wedding journey to Rome . 
Two hours later , Dorothea was seated in an inner room or boudoir of a handsome apartment in the Via Sistina . 
I am sorry to add that she was sobbing bitterly , with such abandonment to this relief of an oppressed heart as a woman habitually controlled by pride on her own account and thoughtfulness for others will sometimes allow herself when she feels securely alone . 
Yet Dorothea had no distinctly shapen grievance that she could state even to herself ; and in the midst of her confused thought and passion , the mental act that was struggling forth into clearness was a self-accusing cry that her feeling of desolation was the fault of her own spiritual poverty . 
She had married the man of her choice , and with the advantage over most girls that she had contemplated her marriage chiefly as the beginning of new duties : from the very first she had thought of Mr Casaubon as having a mind so much above her own , that he must often be claimed by studies which she could not entirely share ; moreover , after the brief narrow experience of her girlhood she was beholding Rome , the city of visible history , where the past of a whole hemisphere seems moving in funeral procession with strange ancestral images and trophies gathered from afar . 
But this stupendous fragmentariness heightened the dream-like strangeness of her bridal life . 
Dorothea had now been five weeks in Rome , and in the kindly mornings when autumn and winter seemed to go hand in hand like a happy aged couple one of whom would presently survive in chiller loneliness , she had driven about at first with Mr Casaubon , but of late chiefly with Tantripp and their experienced courier . 
She had been led through the best galleries , had been taken to the chief points of view , had been shown the grandest ruins and the most glorious churches , and she had ended by oftenest choosing to drive out to the Campagna where she could feel alone with the earth and sky , away from the oppressive masquerade of ages , in which her own life too seemed to become a masque with enigmatical costumes . 
The weight of unintelligible Rome might lie easily on bright nymphs to whom it formed a background for the brilliant picnic of Anglo-foreign society ; but Dorothea had no such defence against deep impressions . 
Our moods are apt to bring with them images which succeed each other like the magic-lantern pictures of a doze ; and in certain states of dull forlornness Dorothea all her life continued to see the vastness of St Peter 's , the huge bronze canopy , the excited intention in the attitudes and garments of the prophets and evangelists in the mosaics above , and the red drapery which was being hung for Christmas spreading itself everywhere like a disease of the retina . 
Not that this inward amazement of Dorothea 's was anything very exceptional : many souls in their young nudity are tumbled out among incongruities and left to `` find their feet '' among them , while their elders go about their business . 
However , Dorothea was crying , and if she had been required to state the cause , she could only have done so in some such general words as I have already used : to have been driven to be more particular would have been like trying to give a history of the lights and shadows ; for that new real future which was replacing the imaginary drew its material from the endless minutiæ by which her view of Mr Casaubon and her wifely relation , now that she was married to him , was gradually changing with the secret motion of a watch-hand from what it had been in her maiden dream . 
It was too early yet for her fully to recognise or at least admit the change , still more for her to have readjusted that devotedness which was so necessary a part of her mental life that she was almost sure sooner or later to recover it . 
Permanent rebellion , the disorder of a life without some loving reverent resolve , was not possible to her ; but she was now in an interval when the very force of her nature heightened its confusion . 
Besides , had not Dorothea 's enthusiasm especially dwelt on the prospect of relieving the weight and perhaps the sadness with which great tasks lie on him who has to achieve them ? 
How was it that in the weeks since her marriage , Dorothea had not distinctly observed but felt with a stifling depression , that the large vistas and wide fresh air which she had dreamed of finding in her husband 's mind were replaced by anterooms and winding passages which seemed to lead nowhither ? 
In their conversation before marriage , Mr Casaubon had often dwelt on some explanation or questionable detail of which Dorothea did not see the bearing ; but such imperfect coherence seemed due to the brokenness of their intercourse , and , supported by her faith in their future , she had listened with fervid patience to a recitation of possible arguments to be brought against Mr Casaubon 's entirely new view of the Philistine god Dagon and other fish-deities , thinking that hereafter she should see this subject which touched him so nearly from the same high ground whence doubtless it had become so important to him . 
Again , the matter-of-course statement and tone of dismissal with which he treated what to her were the most stirring thoughts , was easily accounted for as belonging to the sense of haste and preoccupation in which she herself shared during their engagement . 
But now , since they had been in Rome , with all the depths of her emotion roused to tumultuous activity , and with life made a new problem by new elements , she had been becoming more and more aware , with a certain terror , that her mind was continually sliding into inward fits of anger and repulsion , or else into forlorn weariness . 
How far the judicious Hooker or any other hero of erudition would have been the same at Mr Casaubon 's time of life , she had no means of knowing , so that he could not have the advantage of comparison ; but her husband 's way of commenting on the strangely impressive objects around them had begun to affect her with a sort of mental shiver : he had perhaps the best intention of acquitting himself worthily , but only of acquitting himself . 
What was fresh to her mind was worn out to his ; and such capacity of thought and feeling as had ever been stimulated in him by the general life of mankind had long shrunk to a sort of dried preparation , a lifeless embalmment of knowledge . 
When he said , `` Does this interest you , Dorothea ? 
I am ready to stay if you wish it , '' -- it seemed to her as if going or staying were alike dreary . 
Or , `` Should you like to go to the Farnesina , Dorothea ? 
was always Dorothea 's question . 
This kind of answer given in a measured official tone , as of a clergyman reading according to the rubric , did not help to justify the glories of the Eternal City , or to give her the hope that if she knew more about them the world would be joyously illuminated for her . 
On other subjects indeed Mr Casaubon showed a tenacity of occupation and an eagerness which are usually regarded as the effect of enthusiasm , and Dorothea was anxious to follow this spontaneous direction of his thoughts , instead of being made to feel that she dragged him away from it . 
But she was gradually ceasing to expect with her former delightful confidence that she should see any wide opening where she followed him . 
These characteristics , fixed and unchangeable as bone in Mr Cassaubon , might have remained longer unfelt by Dorothea if she had been encouraged to pour forth her girlish and womanly feeling -- if he would have held her hands between his and listened with the delight of tenderness and understanding to all the little histories which made up her experience , and would have given her the same sort of intimacy in return , so that the past life of each could be included in their mutual knowledge and affection -- or if she could have fed her affection with those childlike caresses which are the bent of every sweet woman , who has begun by showering kisses on the hard pate of her bald doll , creating a happy soul within that woodenness from the wealth of her own love . 
That was Dorothea 's bent . 
With all her yearning to know what was afar from her and to be widely benignant , she had ardour enough for what was near , to have kissed Mr Cassaubon 's coat-sleeve , or to have caressed his shoe-latchet , if he would have made any other sign of acceptance than pronouncing her , with his unfailing propriety , to be of a most affectionate and truly feminine nature , indicating at the same time by politely reaching a chair for her that he regarded these manifestations as rather crude and startling . 
And by a sad contradiction Dorothea 's ideas and resolves seemed like melting ice floating and lost in the warm flood of which they had been but another form . 
She was humiliated to find herself a mere victim of feeling , as if she could know nothing except through that medium : all her strength was scattered in fits of agitation , of struggle , of despondency , and then again in visions of more complete renunciation , transforming all hard conditions into duty . 
Poor Dorothea ! 
she was certainly troublesome -- to herself chiefly ; but this morning for the first time she had been troublesome to Mr Casaubon . 
She had begun , while they were taking coffee , with a determination to shake off what she inwardly called her selfishness , and turned a face all cheerful attention to her husband when he said , `` My dear Dorothea , we must now think of all that is yet left undone , as a preliminary to our departure . 
`` I hope you are thoroughly satisfied with our stay -- i mean , with the result so far as your studies are concerned , '' said Dorothea , trying to keep her mind fixed on what most affected her husband . 
`` I am very glad that my presence has made any difference to you , '' said Dorothea , who had a vivid memory of evenings in which she had supposed that Mr Casaubon 's mind had gone too deep during the day to be able to get to the surface again . 
I fear there was a little temper in her reply . 
`` And all your notes , '' said Dorothea , whose heart had already burned within her on this subject , so that now she could not help speaking with her tongue . 
Dorothea , in a most unaccountable , darkly feminine manner , ended with a slight sob and eyes full of tears . 
The excessive feeling manifested would alone have been highly disturbing to Mr Casaubon , but there were other reasons why Dorothea 's words were among the most cutting and irritating to him that she could have been impelled to use . 
She was as blind to his inward troubles as he to hers : she had not yet learned those hidden conflicts in her husband which claim our pity . 
She had not yet listened patiently to his heart-beats , but only felt that her own was beating violently . 
In Mr Cassaubon 's ear , Dorothea 's voice gave loud emphatic iteration to those muffled suggestions of consciousness which it was possible to explain as mere fancy , the illusion of exaggerated sensitiveness : always when such suggestions are unmistakably repeated from without , they are resisted as cruel and unjust . 
Here , towards this particular point of the compass , Mr Casaubon had a sensitiveness to match Dorothea 's , and an equal quickness to imagine more than the fact . 
He had formerly observed with approbation her capacity for worshipping the right object ; he now foresaw with sudden terror that this capacity might be replaced by presumption , this worship by the most exasperating of all criticism , -- that which sees vaguely a great many fine ends , and has not the least notion what it costs to reach them . 
For the first time since Dorothea had known him , Mr Casaubon 's face had a quick angry flush upon it . 
Dorothea was not only his wife : she was a personification of that shallow world which surrounds the ill-appreciated or desponding author . 
Dorothea was indignant in her turn . 
Had she not been repressing everything in herself except the desire to enter into some fellowship with her husband 's chief interests ? 
`` My judgement was a very superficial one -- such as I am capable of forming , '' she answered , with a prompt resentment , that needed no rehearsal . 
Dorothea rose to leave the table and Mr Casaubon made no reply , taking up a letter which lay beside him as if to reperuse it . 
To Dorothea 's inexperienced sensitiveness , it seemed like a catastrophe , changing all prospects ; and to Mr Casaubon it was a new pain , he never having been on a wedding journey before , or found himself in that close union which was more of a subjection than he had been able to imagine , since this charming young bride not only obliged him to much consideration on her behalf -LRB- which he had sedulously given -RRB- , but turned out to be capable of agitating him cruelly just where he most needed soothing . 
To have reversed a previous arrangement and declined to go out would have been a show of persistent anger which Dorothea 's conscience shrank from , seeing that she already began to feel herself guilty . 
However just her indignation might be , her ideal was not to claim justice , but to give tenderness . 
So when the carriage came to the door , she drove with Mr Casaubon to the Vatican , walked with him through the stony avenue of inscriptions , and when she parted with him at the entrance to the Library , went on through the Museum out of mere listlessness as to what was around her . 
She had not spirit to turn round and say that she would drive anywhere . 
It was when Mr Casaubon was quitting her that Naumann had first seen her , and he had entered the long gallery of sculpture at the same time with her ; but here Naumann had to await Ladislaw with whom he was to settle a bet of champagne about an enigmatical mediæval-looking figure there . 
After they had examined the figure , and had walked on finishing their dispute , they had parted , Ladislaw lingering behind while Naumann had gone into the Hall of Statues where he again saw Dorothea , and saw her in that brooding abstraction which made her pose remarkable . 
She did not really see the streak of sunlight on the floor more than she saw the statues : she was inwardly seeing the light of years to come in her own home and over the English fields and elms and hedge-bordered highroads ; and feeling that the way in which they might be filled with joyful devotedness was not so clear to her as it had been . 
But in Dorothea 's mind there was a current into which all thought and feeling were apt sooner or later to flow -- the reaching forward of the whole consciousness towards the fullest truth , the least partial good . 
It was in that way Dorothea came to be sobbing as soon as she was securely alone . 
But she was presently roused by a knock at the door , which made her hastily dry her eyes before saying , `` Come in . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Dorothea , without pause ; `` show him into the salon . '' 
Her chief impressions about young Ladislaw were that when she had seen him at Lowick she had been made aware of Mr Casaubon 's generosity towards him , and also that she had been interested in his own hesitation about his career . 
She was alive to anything that gave her an opportunity for active sympathy , and at this moment it seemed as if the visit had come to shake her out of her self-absorbed discontent -- to remind her of her husband 's goodness , and make her feel that she had now the right to be his helpmate in all kind deeds . 
She waited a minute or two , but when she passed into the next room there were just signs enough that she had been crying to make her open face look more youthful and appealling than usual . 
She met Ladislaw with that exquisite smile of goodwill which is unmixed with vanity , and held out her hand to him . 
He was the elder by several years , but at that moment he looked much the younger , for his transparent complexion flushed suddenly , and he spoke with a shyness extremely unlike the ready indifference of his manner with his male companion , while Dorothea became all the calmer with a wondering desire to put him at ease . 
He is not here now , but he will be glad to hear of you , I am sure , '' said Dorothea , seating herself unthinkingly between the fire and the light of the tall window , and pointing to a chair opposite , with the quietude of a benignant matron . 
Dorothea wondered ; but the smile was irresistible , and shone back from her face too . 
The reflection of that smile could not but have a little merriment in it too , even under dark eyelashes still moist , as Dorothea said inquiringly , `` Something amuses you ? '' 
said Dorothea , wondering still more . 
`` That was really my ignorance , '' said Dorothea , admiring Will 's good-humour . 
-LRB- It was impossible now to doubt the directness of Dorothea 's confession . -RRB- 
said Dorothea , with a new direction of interest . 
`` That I can understand , '' said Dorothea , cordially . 
`` I have heard Mr Casaubon say that he regrets your want of patience , '' said Dorothea , gently . 
She was rather shocked at this mode of taking all life as a holiday . 
The slight streak of contempt in this hasty reply offended Dorothea . 
She was all the more susceptible about Mr Casaubon because of her morning 's trouble . 
`` Certainly you differ , '' she said , rather proudly . 
Will saw that she was offended , but this only gave an additional impulse to the new irritation of his latent dislike towards Mr Casaubon . 
It was too intolerable that Dorothea should be worshipping this husband : such weakness in a woman is pleasant to no man but the husband in question . 
`` I do not understand you , '' said Dorothea , startled and anxious . 
Will only thought of giving a good pinch that would annihilate that vaunted laboriousness , and was unable to imagine the mode in which Dorothea would be wounded . 
Poor Dorothea felt a pang at the thought that the labour of her husband 's life might be void , which left her no energy to spare for the question whether this young relative who was so much obliged to him ought not to have repressed his observation . 
She did not even speak , but sat looking at her hands , absorbed in the piteousness of that thought . 
Will , however , having given that annihilating pinch , was rather ashamed , imagining from Dorothea 's silence that he had offended her still more ; and having also a conscience about plucking the tail-feathers from a benefactor . 
Dorothea raised her eyes , brighter than usual with excited feeling , and said , in her saddest recitative , `` How I wish I had learned German when I was at Lausanne ! 
There was a new light , but still a mysterious light , for Will in Dorothea 's last words . 
The question how she had come to accept Mr Casaubon -- which he had dismissed when he first saw her by saying that she must be disagreeable in spite of appearances -- was not now to be answered on any such short and easy method . 
Whatever else she might be , she was not disagreeable . 
She was not coldly clever and indirectly satirical , but adorably simple and full of feeling . 
She was an angel beguiled . 
It would be a unique delight to wait and watch for the melodious fragments in which her heart and soul came forth so directly and ingenuously . 
She must have made some original romance for herself in this marriage . 
And if Mr Casaubon had been a dragon who had carried her off to his lair with his talons simply and without legal forms , it would have been an unavoidable feat of heroism to release her and fall at her feet . 
But he was something more unmanageable than a dragon : he was a benefactor with collective society at his back , and he was at that moment entering the room in all the unimpeachable correctness of his demeanour , while Dorothea was looking animated with a newly-roused alarm and regret , and Will was looking animated with his admiring speculation about her feelings . 
As Dorothea 's eyes were turned anxiously on her husband she was perhaps not insensible to the contrast , but it was only mingled with other causes in making her more conscious of that new alarm on his behalf which was the first stirring of a pitying tenderness fed by the realities of his lot and not by her own dreams . 
Yet it was a source of greater freedom to her that Will was there ; his young equality was agreeable , and also perhaps his openness to conviction . 
She felt an immense need of some one to speak to , and she had never before seen any one who seemed so quick and pliable , so likely to understand everything . 
Dorothea 's eyes followed her husband anxiously , while he sank down wearily at the end of a sofa , and resting his elbow supported his head and looked on the floor . 
A little flushed , and with bright eyes , she seated herself beside him , and said , `` Forgive me for speaking so hastily to you this morning . 
He spoke quietly and bowed his head a little , but there was still an uneasy feeling in his eyes as he looked at her . 
said Dorothea , with a quick sob . 
In her need for some manifestation of feeling she was ready to exaggerate her own fault . 
`` My dear Dorothea -- ` who with repentance is not satisfied , is not of heaven nor earth : ' -- you do not think me worthy to be banished by that severe sentence , '' said Mr Casaubon , exerting himself to make a strong statement , and also to smile faintly . 
Dorothea was silent , but a tear which had come up with the sob would insist on falling . 
In fact , he had it in his thought to tell her that she ought not to have received young Ladislaw in his absence ; but he abstained , partly from the sense that it would be ungracious to bring a new complaint in the moment of her penitent acknowledgment , partly because he wanted to avoid further agitation of himself by speech , and partly because he was too proud to betray that jealousy of disposition which was not so exhausted on his scholarly compeers that there was none to spare in other directions . 
But Dorothea remembered it to the last with the vividness with which we all remember epochs in our experience when some dear expectation dies , or some new motive is born . 
To-day she had begun to see that she had been under a wild illusion in expecting a response to her feeling from Mr Casaubon , and she had felt the waking of a presentiment that there might be a sad consciousness in his life which made as great a need on his side as on her own . 
We are all of us born in moral stupidity , taking the world as an udder to feed our supreme selves : Dorothea had early begun to emerge from that stupidity , but yet it had been easier to her to imagine how she would devote herself to Mr Casaubon , and become wise and strong in his strength and wisdom , than to conceive with that distinctness which is no longer reflection but feeling -- an idea wrought back to the directness of sense , like the solidity of objects -- that he had an equivalent centre of self , whence the lights and shadows must always fall with a certain difference . 
On the contrary it seemed to Dorothea that Will had a happier way of drawing her husband into conversation and of deferentially listening to him than she had ever observed in any one before . 
Then occasionally , but not too often , he appealed to Dorothea , and discussed what she said , as if her sentiment were an item to be considered in the final judgment even of the Madonna di Foligno or the Laocoon . 
Mr Casaubon , seeing Dorothea look earnestly towards him , could not but ask her if she would be interested in such visits : he was now at her service during the whole day ; and it was agreed that Will should come on the morrow and drive with them . 
`` The sketch must be very grand , if it conveys so much , '' said Dorothea . 
said Dorothea , smiling towards her husband . 
But it was not possible to include Dorothea in the suspicion . 
The painter in his confident English gave little dissertations on his finished and unfinished subjects , seeming to observe Mr Casaubon as much as he did Dorothea . 
Will burst in here and there with ardent words of praise , marking out particular merits in his friend 's work ; and Dorothea felt that she was getting quite new notions as to the significance of Madonnas seated under inexplicable canopied thrones with the simple country as a background , and of saints with architectural models in their hands , or knives accidentally wedged in their skulls . 
Some things which had seemed monstrous to her were gathering intelligibility and even a natural meaning ; but all this was apparently a branch of knowledge in which Mr Casaubon had not interested himself . 
`` I think I would rather feel that painting is beautiful than have to read it as an enigma ; but I should learn to understand these pictures sooner than yours with the very wide meaning , '' said Dorothea , speaking to Will . 
said Dorothea , turning her sincere eyes on Naumann , who made a slight grimace and said , `` O , he does not mean it seriously with painting . 
As for Dorothea , nothing could have pleased her more , unless it had been a miraculous voice pronouncing Mr Casaubon the wisest and worthiest among the sons of men . 
In that case her tottering faith would have become firm again . 
Dorothea sat down and subsided into calm silence , feeling happier than she had done for a long while before . 
Every one about her seemed good , and she said to herself that Rome , if she had only been less ignorant , would have been full of beauty : its sadness would have been winged with hope . 
No nature could be less suspicious than hers : when she was a child she believed in the gratitude of wasps and the honourable susceptibility of sparrows , and was proportionately indignant when their baseness was made manifest . 
said Dorothea . 
she added , looking entreatingly at Mr Casaubon . 
Mr Casaubon , bowing , doubted not that Mrs Casaubon would oblige him , and Dorothea said , at once , `` Where shall I put myself ? '' 
Naumann was all apologies in asking her to stand , and allow him to adjust her attitude , to which she submitted without any of the affected airs and laughs frequently thought necessary on such occasions , when the painter said , `` It is as Santa Clara that I want you to stand -- leaning so , with your cheek against your hand -- so -- looking at that stool , please , so ! '' 
Will was divided between the inclination to fall at the Saint 's feet and kiss her robe , and the temptation to knock Naumann down while he was adjusting her arm . 
All this was impudence and desecration , and he repented that he had brought her . 
I will not dwell on Naumann 's jokes at the expense of Mr Casaubon that evening , or on his dithyrambs about Dorothea 's charm , in all which Will joined , but with a difference . 
No sooner did Naumann mention any detail of Dorothea 's beauty , than Will got exasperated at his presumption : there was grossness in his choice of the most ordinary words , and what business had he to talk of her lips ? 
She was not a woman to be spoken of as other women were . 
And yet , when after some resistance he had consented to take the Casaubons to his friend 's studio , he had been allured by the gratification of his pride in being the person who could grant Naumann such an opportunity of studying her loveliness -- or rather her divineness , for the ordinary phrases which might apply to mere bodily prettiness were not applicable to her . 
-LRB- Certainly all Tipton and its neighbourhood , as well as Dorothea herself , would have been surprised at her beauty being made so much of . 
All Will 's hope and contrivance were now concentrated on seeing Dorothea when she was alone . 
He only wanted her to take more emphatic notice of him ; he only wanted to be something more special in her remembrance than he could yet believe himself likely to be . 
He was rather impatient under that open ardent goodwill , which he saw was her usual state of feeling . 
The remote worship of a woman throned out of their reach plays a great part in men 's lives , but in most cases the worshipper longs for some queenly recognition , some approving sign by which his soul 's sovereign may cheer him without descending from her high place . 
It was beautiful to see how Dorothea 's eyes turned with wifely anxiety and beseeching to Mr Casaubon : she would have lost some of her halo if she had been without that duteous preoccupation ; and yet at the next moment the husband 's sandy absorption of such nectar was too intolerable ; and Will 's longing to say damaging things about him was perhaps not the less tormenting because he felt the strongest reasons for restraining it . 
Dorothea , who had not been made aware that her former reception of Will had displeased her husband , had no hesitation about seeing him , especially as he might be come to pay a farewell visit . 
When he entered she was looking at some cameos which she had been buying for Celia . 
She greeted Will as if his visit were quite a matter of course , and said at once , having a cameo bracelet in her hand , `` I am so glad you are come . 
Dorothea added the last words with a smile . 
`` You seem not to care about cameos , '' said Will , seating himself at some distance from her , and observing her while she closed the cases . 
`` No , frankly , I do n't think them a great object in life , '' said Dorothea . 
`` I suppose I am dull about many things , '' said Dorothea , simply . 
But Dorothea 's thought was not taking just the same direction as his own , and she answered without any special emotion -- `` Indeed you mistake me . 
`` O dear , '' said Dorothea , taking up that thought into the chief current of her anxiety , `` I see it must be very difficult to do anything good . 
Dorothea parted her lips again as if she were going to say more , but changed her mind and paused . 
Will again feared that he had gone too far ; but the meaning we attach to words depends on our feeling , and his tone of angry regret had so much kindness in it for Dorothea 's heart , which had always been giving out ardour and had never been fed with much from the living beings around her , that she felt a new sense of gratitude and answered with a gentle smile . 
The last sentence was spoken with an almost solemn cadence , and Will did not know what to say , since it would not be useful for him to embrace her slippers , and tell her that he would die for her : it was clear that she required nothing of the sort ; and they were both silent for a moment or two , when Dorothea began again with an air of saying at last what had been in her mind beforehand . 
said Will , observing that she spoke with a timidity quite new in her . 
Dorothea 's timidity was due to an indistinct consciousness that she was in the strange situation of consulting a third person about the adequacy of Mr Casaubon 's learning . 
said Dorothea , with more remonstrant energy . 
She was impelled to have the argument aloud , which she had been having in her own mind . 
said Dorothea , with a look between sorrow and anger . 
She was beginning to be shocked that she had got to such a point of supposition , and indignant with Will for having led her to it . 
`` Pray excuse me , '' said Dorothea , colouring deeply . 
`` That is fine -- I respect that feeling , '' said Dorothea , with returning kindness . 
`` O stay till Mr Casaubon comes , '' said Dorothea , earnestly . 
`` Not at all , '' said Dorothea , with the most open kindness . 
`` And I am quite interested to see what you will do , '' Dorothea went on cheerfully . 
`` But you leave out the poems , '' said Dorothea . 
`` I am very glad to hear it , '' said Dorothea , laughing out her words in a birdlike modulation , and looking at Will with playful gratitude in her eyes . 
said Dorothea , cordially . 
There was a certain liquid brightness in her eyes , and Will was conscious that his own were obeying a law of nature and filling too . 
The allusion to Mr Casaubon would have spoiled all if anything at that moment could have spoiled the subduing power , the sweet dignity , of her noble unsuspicious inexperience . 
`` And there is one thing even now that you can do , '' said Dorothea , rising and walking a little way under the strength of a recurring impulse . 
She had returned from her brief pacing and stood opposite Will , looking gravely at him . 
Dorothea gave him her hand , and they exchanged a simple `` Good-bye . '' 
`` I have something to tell you about our cousin Mr Ladislaw , which I think will heighten your opinion of him , '' said Dorothea to her husband in the course of the evening . 
She had mentioned immediately on his entering that Will had just gone away , and would come again , but Mr Casaubon had said , `` I met him outside , and we made our final adieux , I believe , '' saying this with the air and tone by which we imply that any subject , whether private or public , does not interest us enough to wish for a further remark upon it . 
So Dorothea had waited . 
I thought you would consider that a good sign , '' said Dorothea , with an appealing look into her husband 's neutral face . 
I remembered your goodness in what you said about him when I first saw him at Lowick , '' said Dorothea , putting her hand on her husband 's . 
`` I had a duty towards him , '' said Mr Casaubon , laying his other hand on Dorothea 's in conscientious acceptance of her caress , but with a glance which he could not hinder from being uneasy . 
Dorothea did not mention Will again . 
A light snow was falling as they descended at the door , and in the morning , when Dorothea passed from her dressing-room into the blue-green boudoir that we know of , she saw the long avenue of limes lifting their trunks from a white earth , and spreading white branches against the dun and motionless sky . 
The very furniture in the room seemed to have shrunk since she saw it before : the stag in the tapestry looked more like a ghost in his ghostly blue-green world ; the volumes of polite literature in the bookcase looked more like immovable imitations of books . 
The bright fire of dry oak-boughs burning on the dogs seemed an incongruous renewal of life and glow -- like the figure of Dorothea herself as she entered carrying the red-leather cases containing the cameos for Celia . 
In the first minutes when Dorothea looked out she felt nothing but the dreary oppression ; then came a keen remembrance , and turning away from the window she walked round the room . 
The ideas and hopes which were living in her mind when she first saw this room nearly three months before were present now only as memories : she judged them as we judge transient and departed things . 
All existence seemed to beat with a lower pulse than her own , and her religious faith was a solitary cry , the struggle out of a nightmare in which every object was withering and shrinking away from her . 
Each remembered thing in the room was disenchanted , was deadened as an unlit transparency , till her wandering gaze came to the group of miniatures , and there at last she saw something which had gathered new breath and meaning : it was the miniature of Mr Casaubon 's aunt Julia , who had made the unfortunate marriage -- of Will Ladislaw 's grandmother . 
Dorothea could fancy that it was alive now -- the delicate woman 's face which yet had a headstrong look , a peculiarity difficult to interpret . 
Was it only her friends who thought her marriage unfortunate ? 
or did she herself find it out to be a mistake , and taste the salt bitterness of her tears in the merciful silence of the night ? 
What breadths of experience Dorothea seemed to have passed over since she first looked at this miniature ! 
She felt a new companionship with it , as if it had an ear for her and could see how she was looking at it . 
The vivid presentation came like a pleasant glow to Dorothea : she felt herself smiling , and turning from the miniature sat down and looked up as if she were again talking to a figure in front of her . 
But the smile disappeared as she went on meditating , and at last she said aloud -- `` Oh , it was cruel to speak so ! 
She rose quickly and went out of the room , hurrying along the corridor , with the irresistible impulse to go and see her husband and inquire if she could do anything for him . 
She felt as if all her morning 's gloom would vanish if she could see her husband glad because of her presence . 
But when she reached the head of the dark oak staircase , there was Celia coming up , and below there was Mr Brooke , exchanging welcomes and congratulations with Mr Casaubon . 
I think they both cried a little in a furtive manner , while Dorothea ran down-stairs to greet her uncle . 
`` I need not ask how you are , my dear , '' said Mr Brooke , after kissing her forehead . 
I overdid it at one time '' -- Mr Brooke still held Dorothea 's hand , but had turned his face to Mr Casaubon -- `` about topography , ruins , temples -- I thought I had a clue , but I saw it would carry me too far , and nothing might have come of it . 
Dorothea 's eyes also were turned up to her husband 's face with some anxiety at the idea that those who saw him afresh after absence might be aware of signs which she had not noticed . 
`` Nothing to alarm you , my dear , '' said Mr Brooke , observing her expression . 
said Dorothea , coming to the rescue . 
said Celia , with her ready delicate blush which Dorothea was used to on the smallest occasions . 
`` It would not suit all -- not you , dear , for example , '' said Dorothea , quietly . 
No one would ever know what she thought of a wedding journey to Rome . 
said Dorothea , in a tone full of sisterly feeling . 
It is as I used to hope and believe , '' said Dorothea , taking her sister 's face between her hands , and looking at her half anxiously . 
Sir James is a good , honourable man , '' said Dorothea , warmly . 
-- One morning , some weeks after her arrival at Lowick , Dorothea -- but why always Dorothea ? 
Was her point of view the only possible one with regard to this marriage ? 
And when he had seen Dorothea he believed that he had found even more than he demanded : she might really be such a helpmate to him as would enable him to dispense with a hired secretary , an aid which Mr Casaubon had never yet employed and had a suspicious dread of . 
-- When Dorothea accepted him with effusion , that was only natural ; and Mr Casaubon believed that his happiness was going to begin . 
Even drawing Dorothea into use in his study , according to his own intention before marriage , was an effort which he was always tempted to defer , and but for her pleading insistance it might never have begun . 
But she had succeeded in making it a matter of course that she should take her place at an early hour in the library and have work either of reading aloud or copying assigned her . 
Thus Mr Casaubon was in one of his busiest epochs , and as I began to say a little while ago , Dorothea joined him early in the library where he had breakfasted alone . 
Dorothea had learned to read the signs of her husband 's mood , and she saw that the morning had become more foggy there during the last hour . 
She was going silently to her desk when he said , in that distant tone which implied that he was discharging a disagreeable duty -- `` Dorothea , here is a letter for you , which was enclosed in one addressed to me . '' 
It was a letter of two pages , and she immediately looked at the signature . 
she exclaimed , in a tone of pleased surprise . 
`` But , '' she added , looking at Mr Casaubon , `` I can imagine what he has written to you about . '' 
`` You can , if you please , read the letter , '' said Mr Casaubon , severely pointing to it with his pen , and not looking at her . 
There had been no clashing of temper between Dorothea and her husband since that little explosion in Rome , which had left such strong traces in her mind that it had been easier ever since to quell emotion than to incur the consequence of venting it . 
But this ill-tempered anticipation that she could desire visits which might be disagreeable to her husband , this gratuitous defence of himself against selfish complaint on her part , was too sharp a sting to be meditated on until after it had been resented . 
Dorothea had thought that she could have been patient with John Milton , but she had never imagined him behaving in this way ; and for a moment Mr Casaubon seemed to be stupidly undiscerning and odiously unjust . 
Pity , that `` newborn babe '' which was by-and-by to rule many a storm within her , did not `` stride the blast '' on this occasion . 
With her first words , uttered in a tone that shook him , she startled Mr Casaubon into looking at her , and meeting the flash of her eyes . 
`` Dorothea , you are hasty , '' answered Mr Casaubon , nervously . 
`` I think it was you who were first hasty in your false suppositions about my feeling , '' said Dorothea , in the same tone . 
The fire was not dissipated yet , and she thought it was ignoble in her husband not to apologise to her . 
`` We will , if you please , say no more on this subject , Dorothea . 
Dorothea left Ladislaw 's two letters unread on her husband 's writing-table and went to her own place , the scorn and indignation within her rejecting the reading of these letters , just as we hurl away any trash towards which we seem to have been suspected of mean cupidity . 
She did not in the least divine the subtle sources of her husband 's bad temper about these letters : she only knew that they had caused him to offend her . 
She began to work at once , and her hand did not tremble ; on the contrary , in writing out the quotations which had been given to her the day before , she felt that she was forming her letters beautifully , and it seemed to her that she saw the construction of the Latin she was copying , and which she was beginning to understand , more clearly than usual . 
In her indignation there was a sense of superiority , but it went out for the present in firmness of stroke , and did not compress itself into an inward articulate voice pronouncing the once `` affable archangel '' a poor creature . 
There had been this apparent quiet for half an hour , and Dorothea had not looked away from her own table , when she heard the loud bang of a book on the floor , and turning quickly saw Mr Casaubon on the library-steps clinging forward as if he were in some bodily distress . 
She started up and bounded towards him in an instant : he was evidently in great straits for breath . 
Jumping on a stool she got close to his elbow and said with her whole soul melted into tender alarm -- `` Can you lean on me , dear ? '' 
He was still for two or three minutes , which seemed endless to her , unable to speak or move , gasping for breath . 
When at last he descended the three steps and fell backward in the large chair which Dorothea had drawn close to the foot of the ladder , he no longer gasped but seemed helpless and about to faint . 
Dorothea rang the bell violently , and presently Mr Casaubon was helped to the couch : he did not faint , and was gradually reviving , when Sir James Chettam came in , having been met in the hall with the news that Mr Casaubon had `` had a fit in the library . '' 
When Sir James entered the library , however , Mr Casaubon could make some signs of his usual politeness , and Dorothea , who in the reaction from her first terror had been kneeling and sobbing by his side , now rose and herself proposed that some one should ride off for a medical man . 
Dorothea appealed to her husband , and he made a silent sign of approval . 
After Dorothea 's account , he no longer considered the illness a fit , but still something `` of that nature . '' 
And I think he is not half fond enough of Dorothea ; and he ought to be , for I am sure no one else would have had him -- do you think they would ? '' 
He had just had a fresh impression of this kind , as he had seen Dorothea stretching her tender arm under her husband 's neck and looking at him with unspeakable sorrow . 
While Celia was gone , he walked up and down remembering what he had originally felt about Dorothea 's engagement , and feeling a revival of his disgust at Mr Brooke 's indifference . 
: his disregarded love had not turned to bitterness ; its death had made sweet odours -- floating memories that clung with a consecrating effect to Dorothea . 
He could remain her brotherly friend , interpreting her actions with generous trustfulness . 
`` Get Dorothea to play backgammon with you in the evenings . 
Or get Dorothea to read you light things , Smollett -- ` Roderick Random , ' ` Humphrey Clinker : ' they are a little broad , but she may read anything now she 's married , you know . 
Without Mr Brooke 's advice , Lydgate had determined on speaking to Dorothea . 
She had not been present while her uncle was throwing out his pleasant suggestions as to the mode in which life at Lowick might be enlivened , but she was usually by her husband 's side , and the unaffected signs of intense anxiety in her face and voice about whatever touched his mind or health , made a drama which Lydgate was inclined to watch . 
He said to himself that he was only doing right in telling her the truth about her husband 's probable future , but he certainly thought also that it would be interesting to talk confidentially with her . 
He asked for Mrs Casaubon , but being told that she was out walking , he was going away , when Dorothea and Celia appeared , both glowing from their struggle with the March wind . 
When Lydgate begged to speak with her alone , Dorothea opened the library door which happened to be the nearest , thinking of nothing at the moment but what he might have to say about Mr Casaubon . 
It was the first time she had entered this room since her husband had been taken ill , and the servant had chosen not to open the shutters . 
`` You will not mind this sombre light , '' said Dorothea , standing in the middle of the room . 
said Dorothea , whose quick ear had detected some significance in Lydgate 's tone . 
`` I beseech you to speak quite plainly , '' said Dorothea , in an imploring tone . 
`` Sit down , '' she added , placing herself on the nearest chair , and throwing off her bonnet and gloves , with an instinctive discarding of formality where a great question of destiny was concerned . 
Dorothea had turned very pale , and when Lydgate paused she said in a low voice , `` You mean if we are very careful . '' 
`` He would be miserable , if he had to give up his work , '' said Dorothea , with a quick prevision of that wretchedness . 
There was silence for a few moments , while Dorothea sat as if she had been turned to marble , though the life within her was so intense that her mind had never before swept in brief time over an equal range of scenes and motives . 
`` Help me , pray , '' she said , at last , in the same low voice as before . 
The memories which made this resource utterly hopeless were a new current that shook Dorothea out of her pallid immobility . 
`` Oh , that would not do -- that would be worse than anything , '' she said with a more childlike despondency , while the tears rolled down . 
`` I wish that I could have spared you this pain , '' said Lydgate , deeply touched , yet wondering about her marriage . 
Women just like Dorothea had not entered into his traditions . 
Lydgate rose , and Dorothea mechanically rose at the same time , unclasping her cloak and throwing it off as if it stifled her . 
He was bowing and quitting her , when an impulse which if she had been alone would have turned into a prayer , made her say with a sob in her voice -- `` Oh , you are a wise man , are you not ? 
When he was gone , Dorothea 's tears gushed forth , and relieved her stifling oppression . 
Then she dried her eyes , reminded that her distress must not be betrayed to her husband ; and looked round the room thinking that she must order the servant to attend to it as usual , since Mr Casaubon might now at any moment wish to enter . 
On his writing-table there were letters which had lain untouched since the morning when he was taken ill , and among them , as Dorothea well remembered , there were young Ladislaw 's letters , the one addressed to her still unopened . 
The associations of these letters had been made the more painful by that sudden attack of illness which she felt that the agitation caused by her anger might have helped to bring on : it would be time enough to read them when they were again thrust upon her , and she had had no inclination to fetch them from the library . 
But now it occurred to her that they should be put out of her husband 's sight : whatever might have been the sources of his annoyance about them , he must , if possible , not be annoyed again ; and she ran her eyes first over the letter addressed to him to assure herself whether or not it would be necessary to write in order to hinder the offensive visit . 
Opening her own letter Dorothea saw that it was a lively continuation of his remonstrance with her fanatical sympathy and her want of sturdy neutral delight in things as they were -- an outpouring of his young vivacity which it was impossible to read just now . 
She had immediately to consider what was to be done about the other letter : there was still time perhaps to prevent Will from coming to Lowick . 
Dorothea ended by giving the letter to her uncle , who was still in the house , and begging him to let Will know that Mr Casaubon had been ill , and that his health would not allow the reception of any visitors . 
He had simply said to Dorothea -- `` To be sure , I will write , my dear . 
But he went away without telling Dorothea what he had put into the letter , for she was engaged with her husband , and -- in fact , these things were of no importance to her . 
But for her visitors Dorothea too might have been shut up in the library , and would not have witnessed this scene of old Featherstone 's funeral , which , aloof as it seemed to be from the tenor of her life , always afterwards came back to her at the touch of certain sensitive points in memory , just as the vision of St Peter 's at Rome was inwoven with moods of despondency . 
The dream-like association of something alien and ill-understood with the deepest secrets of her experience seemed to mirror that sense of loneliness which was due to the very ardour of Dorothea 's nature . 
And Dorothea was not at ease in the perspective and chilliness of that height . 
`` I am fond of knowing something about the people I live among , '' said Dorothea , who had been watching everything with the interest of a monk on his holiday tour . 
And to bring a little news -- a little news , my dear , '' said Mr Brooke , nodding at Dorothea as she came towards him . 
said Dorothea . 
She was going to say more , but she saw her husband enter and seat himself a little in the background . 
The difference his presence made to her was not always a happy one : she felt that he often inwardly objected to her speech . 
Dorothea felt a shock of alarm : every one noticed her sudden paleness as she looked up immediately at her uncle , while Mr Casaubon looked at her . 
`` He came with me , you know ; he is my guest -- puts up with me at the Grange , '' said Mr Brooke , in his easiest tone , nodding at Dorothea , as if the announcement were just what she might have expected . 
He remembered Will 's letter quite as well as Dorothea did ; he had noticed that it was not among the letters which had been reserved for him on his recovery , and secretly concluding that Dorothea had sent word to Will not to come to Lowick , he had shrunk with proud sensitiveness from ever recurring to the subject . 
He now inferred that she had asked her uncle to invite Will to the Grange ; and she felt it impossible at that moment to enter into any explanation . 
His good-nature often made him quick and clear-seeing in personal matters , and he had divined from Dorothea 's glance at her husband that there was some alarm in her mind . 
I invited him some time ago when you were ill , Casaubon : Dorothea said you could n't have anybody in the house , you know , and she asked me to write . '' 
Poor Dorothea felt that every word of her uncle 's was about as pleasant as a grain of sand in the eye to Mr Casaubon . 
It would be altogether unfitting now to explain that she had not wished her uncle to invite Will Ladislaw . 
She could not in the least make clear to herself the reasons for her husband 's dislike to his presence -- a dislike painfully impressed on her by the scene in the library ; but she felt the unbecomingness of saying anything that might convey a notion of it to others . 
But he wished to repress outward signs , and only Dorothea could discern the changes in her husband 's face before he observed with more of dignified bending and sing-song than usual -- `` You are exceedingly hospitable , my dear sir ; and I owe you acknowledgments for exercising your hospitality towards a relative of mine . '' 
`` He is just like a miniature of Mr Casaubon 's aunt that hangs in Dorothea 's boudoir -- quite nice-looking . '' 
His antipathy to Will did not spring from the common jealousy of a winter-worn husband : it was something deeper , bred by his lifelong claims and discontents ; but Dorothea , now that she was present -- Dorothea , as a young wife who herself had shown an offensive capability of criticism , necessarily gave concentration to the uneasiness which had before been vague . 
And Casaubon had done a wrong to Dorothea in marrying her . 
`` It is the most horrible of virgin-sacrifices , '' said Will ; and he painted to himself what were Dorothea 's inward sorrows as if he had been writing a choric wail . 
But he would never lose sight of her : he would watch over her -- if he gave up everything else in life he would watch over her , and she should know that she had one slave in the world . 
The simple truth was that nothing then invited him so strongly as the presence of Dorothea . 
And though Will had not seen Dorothea alone , their interviews had been enough to restore her former sense of young companionship with one who was cleverer than herself , yet seemed ready to be swayed by her . 
Poor Dorothea before her marriage had never found much room in other minds for what she cared most to say ; and she had not , as we know , enjoyed her husband 's superior instruction so much as she had expected . 
If she spoke with any keenness of interest to Mr Casaubon , he heard her with an air of patience as if she had given a quotation from the Delectus familiar to him from his tender years , and sometimes mentioned curtly what ancient sects or personages had held similar ideas , as if there were too much of that sort in sort in stock already ; at other times he would inform her that she was mistaken , and reassert what her remark had questioned . 
But Will Ladislaw always seemed to see more in what she said than she herself saw . 
Dorothea had little vanity , but she had the ardent woman 's need to rule beneficently by making the joy of another soul . 
Hence the mere chance of seeing Will occasionally was like a lunette opened in the wall of her prison , giving her a glimpse of the sunny air ; and this pleasure began to nullify her original alarm at what her husband might think about the introduction of Will as her uncle 's guest . 
But Will wanted to talk with Dorothea alone , and was impatient of slow circumstance . 
Necessity excused stratagem , but stratagem was limited by the dread of offending Dorothea . 
He found out at last that he wanted to take a particular sketch at Lowick ; and one morning when Mr Brooke had to drive along the Lowick road on his way to the county town , Will asked to be set down with his sketch-book and camp-stool at Lowick , and without announcing himself at the Manor settled himself to sketch in a position where he must see Dorothea if she came out to walk -- and he knew that she usually walked an hour in the morning . 
I 'd better tell her you 're here , sir , '' said Pratt , a red-cheeked man given to lively converse with Tantripp , and often agreeing with her that it must be dull for Madam . 
In another minute he was in the library , and Dorothea was meeting him with her sweet unconstrained smile . 
`` Mr Casaubon has gone to the Archdeacon 's , '' she said , at once . 
Dorothea uttered these common words with the simple sincerity of an unhappy child , visited at school . 
`` I really came for the chance of seeing you alone , '' said Will , mysteriously forced to be just as simple as she was . 
`` Yes , '' said Dorothea , in her clear full tone of assent . 
She seated herself on a dark ottoman with the brown books behind her , looking in her plain dress of some thin woolen-white material , without a single ornament on her besides her wedding-ring , as if she were under a vow to be different from all other women ; and Will sat down opposite her at two yards ' distance , the light falling on his bright curls and delicate but rather petulant profile , with its defiant curves of lip and chin . 
Dorothea for the moment forgot her husband 's mysterious irritation against Will : it seemed fresh water at her thirsty lips to speak without fear to the one person whom she had found receptive ; for in looking backward through sadness she exaggerated a past solace . 
`` I have often thought that I should like to talk to you again , '' she said , immediately . 
`` I have tried to learn a great deal since we were in Rome , '' said Dorothea . 
But through certain sensibilities Dorothea was as quick as he , and seeing her face change , he added , immediately , `` But it is quite true that the best minds have been sometimes overstrained in working out their ideas . '' 
`` You correct me , '' said Dorothea . 
Dorothea was led on to this bit of autobiography without any sense of making a revelation . 
But she had never before said anything to Will which threw so strong a light on her marriage . 
said Dorothea , in a tone of earnest remonstrance . 
`` Yes , '' said Dorothea , `` but they do n't understand -- they want me to be a great deal on horseback , and have the garden altered and new conservatories , to fill up my days . 
I thought you could understand that one 's mind has other wants , '' she added , rather impatiently -- `` besides , Mr Casaubon can not bear to hear of a secretary . '' 
Dorothea was trying to extract out of this an excuse for her husband 's evident repulsion , as she said , with a playful smile , `` You were not a steady worker enough . '' 
And it was too intolerable that Casaubon 's dislike of him should not be fairly accounted for to Dorothea . 
Yet when he had spoken he was rather uneasy as to the effect on her . 
But Dorothea was strangely quiet -- not immediately indignant , as she had been on a like occasion in Rome . 
She was no longer struggling against the perception of facts , but adjusting herself to their clearest perception ; and now when she looked steadily at her husband 's failure , still more at his possible consciousness of failure , she seemed to be looking along the one track where duty became tenderness . 
Will 's want of reticence might have been met with more severity , if he had not already been recommended to her mercy by her husband 's dislike , which must seem hard to her till she saw better reason for it . 
She did not answer at once , but after looking down ruminatingly she said , with some earnestness , `` Mr Casaubon must have overcome his dislike of you so far as his actions were concerned : and that is admirable . '' 
said Dorothea . 
said Dorothea , with keen interest , clasping her hands on her lap . 
In his inmost soul Will was conscious of wishing to tell Dorothea what was rather new even in his own construction of things -- namely , that Mr Casaubon had never done more than pay a debt towards him . 
`` No , '' answered Dorothea ; `` Mr Casaubon has always avoided dwelling on his own honourable action . '' 
She did not feel that her husband 's conduct was depreciated ; but this notion of what justice had required in his relations with Will Ladislaw took strong hold on her mind . 
After a moment 's pause , she added , `` He had never told me that he supported your mother . 
You see I come of rebellious blood on both sides , '' Will ended , smiling brightly at Dorothea , while she was still looking with serious intentness before her , like a child seeing a drama for the first time . 
But her face , too , broke into a smile as she said , `` That is your apology , I suppose , for having yourself been rather rebellious ; I mean , to Mr Casaubon 's wishes . 
Perhaps , '' she continued , getting into a pleading tone , `` my uncle has not told you how serious Mr Casaubon 's illness was . 
There was a gentleness in his tone which came from the unutterable contentment of perceiving -- what Dorothea was hardly conscious of -- that she was travelling into the remoteness of pure pity and loyalty towards her husband . 
Will was ready to adore her pity and loyalty , if she would associate himself with her in manifesting them . 
`` That is very good of you , '' said Dorothea , with another open smile . 
said Dorothea . 
`` I should like you to stay very much , '' said Dorothea , at once , as simply and readily as she had spoken at Rome . 
There was not the shadow of a reason in her mind at the moment why she should not say so . 
But the next moment , Dorothea , according to a habit which was getting continually stronger , began to reflect that her husband felt differently from herself , and she coloured deeply under the double embarrassment of having expressed what might be in opposition to her husband 's feeling , and of having to suggest this opposition to Will . 
His face was not turned towards her , and this made it easier to say -- `` But my opinion is of little consequence on such a subject . 
He approached her to shake hands quite hurriedly , longing but not daring to say , `` Do n't mention the subject to Mr Casaubon . '' 
To ask her to be less simple and direct would be like breathing on the crystal that you want to see the light through . 
And there was always the other great dread -- of himself becoming dimmed and for ever ray-shorn in her eyes . 
`` I wish you could have stayed , '' said Dorothea , with a touch of mournfulness , as she rose and put out her hand . 
She also had her thought which she did not like to express : -- Will certainly ought to lose no time in consulting Mr Casaubon 's wishes , but for her to urge this might seem an undue dictation . 
On such occasions he usually threw himself into an easy-chair in the library , and allowed Dorothea to read the London papers to him , closing his eyes the while . 
To-day , however , he declined that relief , observing that he had already had too many public details urged upon him ; but he spoke more cheerfully than usual , when Dorothea asked about his fatigue , and added with that air of formal effort which never forsook him even when he spoke without his waistcoat and cravat -- `` I have had the gratification of meeting my former acquaintance , Dr Spanning , to-day , and of being praised by one who is himself a worthy recipient of praise . 
`` I am very glad you have had that pleasure , '' said Dorothea , delighted to see her husband less weary than usual at this hour . 
Her husband she felt was really concerned in this question . 
Even with her ignorance of the world she had a vague impression that the position offered to Will was out of keeping with his family connections , and certainly Mr Casaubon had a claim to be consulted . 
Dorothea looked at her husband while she spoke , but he had at first blinked and finally closed his eyes , as if to save them ; while his lips became more tense . 
she added , rather timidly , after a slight pause . 
said Mr Casaubon , opening his eyes narrowly with a knife-edged look at Dorothea . 
She was really uncomfortable on the point he inquired about , but she only became a little more serious , and her eyes did not swerve . 
`` No , '' she answered , immediately , `` he did not say that he came to ask your opinion . 
Dorothea felt that this was a consideration to soften her husband . 
However , he did not speak , and she presently recurred to Dr Spanning and the Archdeacon 's breakfast . 
The next morning , without Dorothea 's knowledge , Mr Casaubon despatched the following letter , beginning `` Dear Mr Ladislaw '' -LRB- he had always before addressed him as `` Will '' -RRB- : -- `` Mrs Casaubon informs me that a proposal has been made to you , and -LRB- according to an inference by no means stretched -RRB- has on your part been in some degree entertained , which involves your residence in this neighbourhood in a capacity which I am justified in saying touches my own position in such a way as renders it not only natural and warrantable in me when that effect is viewed under the influence of legitimate feeling , but incumbent on me when the same effect is considered in the light of my responsibilities , to state at once that your acceptance of the proposal above indicated would be highly offensive to me . 
Meanwhile Dorothea 's mind was innocently at work towards the further embitterment of her husband ; dwelling , with a sympathy that grew to agitation , on what Will had told her about his parents and grand-parents . 
Any private hours in her day were usually spent in her blue-green boudoir , and she had come to be very fond of its pallid quaintness . 
She had been so used to struggle for and to find resolve in looking along the avenue towards the arch of western light that the vision itself had gained a communicating power . 
Especially the mysterious `` Aunt Julia '' about whom Dorothea had never found it easy to question her husband . 
And now , since her conversation with Will , many fresh images had gathered round that Aunt Julia who was Will 's grandmother ; the presence of that delicate miniature , so like a living face that she knew , helping to concentrate her feelings . 
Dorothea , early troubling her elders with questions about the facts around her , had wrought herself into some independent clearness as to the historical , political reasons why eldest sons had superior rights , and why land should be entailed : those reasons , impressing her with a certain awe , might be weightier than she knew , but here was a question of ties which left them uninfringed . 
All the energy of Dorothea 's nature went on the side of responsibility -- the fulfilment of claims founded on our own deeds , such as marriage and parentage . 
It was true , she said to herself , that Mr Casaubon had a debt to the Ladislaws -- that he had to pay back what the Ladislaws had been wronged of . 
And now she began to think of her husband 's will , which had been made at the time of their marriage , leaving the bulk of his property to her , with proviso in case of her having children . 
Her husband , she felt sure , according to all his previous conduct , would be ready to take the just view , if she proposed it -- she , in whose interest an unfair concentration of the property had been urged . 
She suspected that her uncle 's scheme was disapproved by Mr Casaubon , and this made it seem all the more opportune that a fresh understanding should be begun , so that instead of Will 's starting penniless and accepting the first function that offered itself , he should find himself in possession of a rightful income which should be paid by her husband during his life , and , by an immediate alteration of the will , should be secured at his death . 
The vision of all this as what ought to be done seemed to Dorothea like a sudden letting in of daylight , waking her from her previous stupidity and incurious self-absorbed ignorance about her husband 's relation to others . 
Will Ladislaw had refused Mr Casaubon 's future aid on a ground that no longer appeared right to her ; and Mr Casaubon had never himself seen fully what was the claim upon him . 
said Dorothea . 
There was a peculiar fascination for Dorothea in this division of property intended for herself , and always regarded by her as excessive . 
She was blind , you see , to many things obvious to others -- likely to tread in the wrong places , as Celia had warned her ; yet her blindness to whatever did not lie in her own pure purpose carried her safely by the side of precipices where vision would have been perilous with fear . 
The day passed in a sombre fashion , not unusual , though Mr Casaubon was perhaps unusually silent ; but there were hours of the night which might be counted on as opportunities of conversation ; for Dorothea , when aware of her husband 's sleeplessness , had established the habit of rising , lighting a candle , and reading him to sleep again . 
And this night she was from the beginning sleepless , excited by resolves . 
He slept as usual for a few hours , but she had risen softly and had sat in the darkness for nearly an hour before he said -- `` Dorothea , since you are up , will you light a candle ? '' 
was her first question , as she obeyed him . 
said Dorothea . 
`` These , my dear Dorothea , are providential arrangements . '' 
Dorothea waited a few moments for some answer that would help her onward . 
None came , and her next words seemed the more forcible to her , falling clear upon the dark silence . 
said Dorothea , earnestly . 
`` Dorothea , my love , this is not the first occasion , but it were well that it should be the last , on which you have assumed a judgment on subjects beyond your scope . 
Poor Dorothea , shrouded in the darkness , was in a tumult of conflicting emotions . 
Alarm at the possible effect on himself of her husband 's strongly-manifested anger , would have checked any expression of her own resentment , even if she had been quite free from doubt and compunction under the consciousness that there might be some justice in his last insinuation . 
Hearing him breathe quickly after he had spoken , she sat listening , frightened , wretched -- with a dumb inward cry for help to bear this nightmare of a life in which every energy was arrested by dread . 
Young Ladislaw , he was sure , meant to defy and annoy him , meant to win Dorothea 's confidence and sow her mind with disrespect , and perhaps aversion , towards her husband . 
Some motive beneath the surface had been needed to account for Will 's sudden change of course in rejecting Mr Casaubon 's aid and quitting his travels ; and this defiant determination to fix himself in the neighbourhood by taking up something so much at variance with his former choice as Mr Brooke 's Middlemarch projects , revealed clearly enough that the undeclared motive had relation to Dorothea . 
Not for one moment did Mr Casaubon suspect Dorothea of any doubleness : he had no suspicions of her , but he had -LRB- what was little less uncomfortable -RRB- the positive knowledge that her tendency to form opinions about her husband 's conduct was accompanied with a disposition to regard Will Ladislaw favourably and be influenced by what he said . 
His own proud reticence had prevented him from ever being undeceived in the supposition that Dorothea had originally asked her uncle to invite Will to his house . 
It was impossible for him to mention Dorothea 's name in the matter , and without some alarming urgency Mr Brooke was as likely as not , after meeting all representations with apparent assent , to wind up by saying , `` Never fear , Casaubon ! 
And Mr Casaubon shrank nervously from communicating on the subject with Sir James Chettam , between whom and himself there had never been any cordiality , and who would immediately think of Dorothea without any mention of her . 
`` If Dorothea had kept near her uncle , there would have been some chance , '' said Sir James . 
`` She might have got some power over him in time , and she was always uneasy about the estate . 
She had wonderfully good notions about such things . 
But now Casaubon takes her up entirely . 
Sir James Chettam 's mind was not fruitful in devices , but his growing anxiety to `` act on Brooke , '' once brought close to his constant belief in Dorothea 's capacity for influence , became formative , and issued in a little plan ; namely , to plead Celia 's indisposition as a reason for fetching Dorothea by herself to the Hall , and to leave her at the Grange with the carriage on the way , after making her fully aware of the situation concerning the management of the estate . 
Dorothea 's entrance was the freshness of morning . 
`` Well , my dear , this is pleasant , now , '' said Mr Brooke , meeting and kissing her . 
`` There is no fear of that , uncle , '' said Dorothea , turning to Will and shaking hands with open cheerfulness , while she made no other form of greeting , but went on answering her uncle . 
She seated herself beside her uncle opposite to Will , and was evidently preoccupied with something that made her almost unmindful of him . 
He was ridiculously disappointed , as if he had imagined that her coming had anything to do with him . 
We shall do a great deal together , Ladislaw and I. '' `` Yes , '' said Dorothea , with characteristic directness , `` Sir James has been telling me that he is in hope of seeing a great change made soon in your management of the estate -- that you are thinking of having the farms valued , and repairs made , and the cottages improved , so that Tipton may look quite another place . 
-- she went on , clasping her hands , with a return to that more childlike impetuous manner which had been subdued since her marriage . 
`` He only feels confident that you will do it , '' said Dorothea , in a voice as clear and unhesitating as that of a young chorister chanting a credo , `` because you mean to enter Parliament as a member who cares for the improvement of the people , and one of the first things to be made better is the state of the land and the labourers . 
Dorothea had gathered emotion as she went on , and had forgotten everything except the relief of pouring forth her feelings , unchecked : an experience once habitual with her , but hardly ever present since her marriage , which had been a perpetual struggle of energy with fear . 
I shall let him off easily , you know , '' said Mr Brooke aside to Dorothea , shuffling away very cheerfully . 
`` I hope you feel how right this change is that I -- that Sir James wishes for , '' said Dorothea to Will , as soon as her uncle was gone . 
`` Pray tell me what it is , '' said Dorothea , anxiously , also rising and going to the open window , where Monk was looking in , panting and wagging his tail . 
She leaned her back against the window-frame , and laid her hand on the dog 's head ; for though , as we know , she was not fond of pets that must be held in the hands or trodden on , she was always attentive to the feelings of dogs , and very polite if she had to decline their advances . 
Will followed her only with his eyes and said , `` I presume you know that Mr Casaubon has forbidden me to go to his house . '' 
`` No , I did not , '' said Dorothea , after a moment 's pause . 
She was evidently much moved . 
`` I am very , very sorry , '' she added , mournfully . 
She was thinking of what Will had no knowledge of -- the conversation between her and her husband in the darkness ; and she was anew smitten with hopelessness that she could influence Mr Casaubon 's action . 
But the marked expression of her sorrow convinced Will that it was not all given to him personally , and that Dorothea had not been visited by the idea that Mr Casaubon 's dislike and jealousy of him turned upon herself . 
He felt an odd mixture of delight and vexation : of delight that he could dwell and be cherished in her thought as in a pure home , without suspicion and without stint -- of vexation because he was of too little account with her , was not formidable enough , was treated with an unhesitating benevolence which did not flatter him . 
But his dread of any change in Dorothea was stronger than his discontent , and he began to speak again in a tone of mere explanation . 
Dorothea felt wretched . 
She thought her husband altogether in the wrong , on more grounds than Will had mentioned . 
`` It is better for us not to speak on the subject , '' she said , with a tremulousness not common in her voice , `` since you and Mr Casaubon disagree . 
She was looking out on the lawn , with melancholy meditation . 
`` No , '' said Dorothea , turning her eyes full upon him , `` hardly ever . 
`` Oh , my life is very simple , '' said Dorothea , her lips curling with an exquisite smile , which irradiated her melancholy . 
`` No , do n't think that , '' said Dorothea . 
He did not speak , but she replied to some change in his expression . 
`` That is a beautiful mysticism -- it is a -- '' `` Please not to call it by any name , '' said Dorothea , putting out her hands entreatingly . 
said Dorothea . 
`` But if you like what is good , that comes to the same thing , '' said Dorothea , smiling . 
I do n't feel as if I were subtle , '' said Dorothea , playfully . 
Will offered to tell Mr Brooke , who presently came and said that he would step into the carriage and go with Dorothea as far as Dagley 's , to speak about the small delinquent who had been caught with the leveret . 
Dorothea renewed the subject of the estate as they drove along , but Mr Brooke , not being taken unawares , got the talk under his own control . 
`` That was very brutal , I think , '' said Dorothea . 
Mr Brooke got down at a farmyard-gate , and Dorothea drove on . 
Mr Casaubon had never put any question concerning the nature of his illness to Lydgate , nor had he even to Dorothea betrayed any anxiety as to how far it might be likely to cut short his labours or his life . 
Thus his intellectual ambition which seemed to others to have absorbed and dried him , was really no security against wounds , least of all against those which came from Dorothea . 
Against certain facts he was helpless : against Will Ladislaw 's existence , his defiant stay in the neighbourhood of Lowick , and his flippant state of mind with regard to the possessors of authentic , well-stamped erudition : against Dorothea 's nature , always taking on some new shape of ardent activity , and even in submission and silence covering fervid reasons which it was an irritation to think of : against certain notions and likings which had taken possession of her mind in relation to subjects that he could not possibly discuss with her . 
There was no denying that Dorothea was as virtuous and lovely a young lady as he could have obtained for a wife ; but a young lady turned out to be something more troublesome than he had conceived . 
To his suspicious interpretation Dorothea 's silence now was a suppressed rebellion ; a remark from her which he had not in any way anticipated was an assertion of conscious superiority ; her gentle answers had an irritating cautiousness in them ; and when she acquiesced it was a self-approved effort of forbearance . 
This sore susceptibility in relation to Dorothea was thoroughly prepared before Will Ladislaw had returned to Lowick , and what had occurred since then had brought Mr Casaubon 's power of suspicious construction into exasperated activity . 
Suspicion and jealousy of Will Ladislaw 's intentions , suspicion and jealousy of Dorothea 's impressions , were constantly at their weaving work . 
It would be quite unjust to him to suppose that he could have entered into any coarse misinterpretation of Dorothea : his own habits of mind and conduct , quite as much as the open elevation of her nature , saved him from any such mistake . 
What he was jealous of was her opinion , the sway that might be given to her ardent mind in its judgments , and the future possibilities to which these might lead her . 
He was quite sure that Dorothea was the cause of Will 's return from Rome , and his determination to settle in the neighbourhood ; and he was penetrating enough to imagine that Dorothea had innocently encouraged this course . 
It was as clear as possible that she was ready to be attached to Will and to be pliant to his suggestions : they had never had a tête-à-tête without her bringing away from it some new troublesome impression , and the last interview that Mr Casaubon was aware of -LRB- Dorothea , on returning from Freshitt Hall , had for the first time been silent about having seen Will -RRB- had led to a scene which roused an angrier feeling against them both than he had ever known before . 
Dorothea 's outpouring of her notions about money , in the darkness of the night , had done nothing but bring a mixture of more odious foreboding into her husband 's mind . 
The way in which Mr Casaubon put the case was this : -- `` In marrying Dorothea Brooke I had to care for her wellbeing in case of my death . 
But wellbeing is not to be secured by ample , independent possession of property ; on the contrary , occasions might arise in which such possession might expose her to the more danger . 
She is ready prey to any man who knows how to play adroitly either on her affectionate ardour or her Quixotic enthusiasm ; and a man stands by with that very intention in his mind -- a man with no other principle than transient caprice , and who has a personal animosity towards me -- I am sure of it -- an animosity which is fed by the consciousness of his ingratitude , and which he has constantly vented in ridicule of which I am as well assured as if I had heard it . 
This man has gained Dorothea 's ear : he has fascinated her attention ; he has evidently tried to impress her mind with the notion that he has claims beyond anything I have done for him . 
If I die -- and he is waiting here on the watch for that -- he will persuade her to marry him . 
That would be calamity for her and success for him . 
She would not think it calamity : he would make her believe anything ; she has a tendency to immoderate attachment which she inwardly reproaches me for not responding to , and already her mind is occupied with his fortunes . 
Such a marriage would be fatal to Dorothea . 
In religion he could be , as long as it suited him , the facile echo of Dorothea 's vagaries . 
He had mentioned to Dorothea that Lydgate was coming by appointment at half-past three , and in answer to her anxious question , whether he had felt ill , replied , -- `` No , I merely wish to have his opinion concerning some habitual symptoms . 
Lydgate was going to explain why he had told Dorothea , but Mr Casaubon , with an unmistakable desire to end the conversation , waved his hand slightly , and said again , `` I thank you , '' proceeding to remark on the rare beauty of the day . 
Dorothea had been aware when Lydgate had ridden away , and she had stepped into the garden , with the impulse to go at once to her husband . 
But she hesitated , fearing to offend him by obtruding herself ; for her ardour , continually repulsed , served , with her intense memory , to heighten her dread , as thwarted energy subsides into a shudder ; and she wandered slowly round the nearer clumps of trees until she saw him advancing . 
Then she went towards him , and might have represented a heaven-sent angel coming with a promise that the short hours remaining should yet be filled with that faithful love which clings the closer to a comprehended grief . 
His glance in reply to hers was so chill that she felt her timidity increased ; yet she turned and passed her hand through his arm . 
Mr Casaubon kept his hands behind him and allowed her pliant arm to cling with difficulty against his rigid arm . 
There was something horrible to Dorothea in the sensation which this unresponsive hardness inflicted on her . 
Besides , he knew little of Dorothea 's sensations , and had not reflected that on such an occasion as the present they were comparable in strength to his own sensibilities about Carp 's criticisms . 
Dorothea did not withdraw her arm , but she could not venture to speak . 
Mr. Casaubon did not say , `` I wish to be alone , '' but he directed his steps in silence towards the house , and as they entered by the glass door on this eastern side , Dorothea withdrew her arm and lingered on the matting , that she might leave her husband quite free . 
She went up to her boudoir . 
But Dorothea knew nothing of the scene . 
She threw herself on a chair , not heeding that she was in the dazzling sun-rays : if there were discomfort in that , how could she tell that it was not part of her inward misery ? 
She was in the reaction of a rebellious anger stronger than any she had felt since her marriage . 
She began to hear herself , and was checked into stillness . 
Like one who has lost his way and is weary , she sat and saw as in one glance all the paths of her young hope which she should never find again . 
And just as clearly in the miserable light she saw her own and her husband 's solitude -- how they walked apart so that she was obliged to survey him . 
If he had drawn her towards him , she would never have surveyed him -- never have said , `` Is he worth living for ? '' 
but would have felt him simply a part of her own life . 
Now she said bitterly , `` It is his fault , not mine . '' 
In the jar of her whole being , Pity was overthrown . 
Was it her fault that she had believed in him -- had believed in his worthiness ? 
-- She was able enough to estimate him -- she who waited on his glances with trembling , and shut her best soul in prison , paying it only hidden visits , that she might be petty enough to please him . 
The sun was low when Dorothea was thinking that she would not go down again , but would send a message to her husband saying that she was not well and preferred remaining up-stairs . 
She had never deliberately allowed her resentment to govern her in this way before , but she believed now that she could not see him again without telling him the truth about her feeling , and she must wait till she could do it without interruption . 
He might wonder and be hurt at her message . 
Her anger said , as anger is apt to say , that God was with her -- that all heaven , though it were crowded with spirits watching them , must be on her side . 
She had determined to ring her bell , when there came a rap at the door . 
Dorothea sat almost motionless in her meditative struggle , while the evening slowly deepened into night . 
That thought with which Dorothea had gone out to meet her husband -- her conviction that he had been asking about the possible arrest of all his work , and that the answer must have wrung his heart , could not be long without rising beside the image of him , like a shadowy monitor looking at her anger with sad remonstrance . 
It cost her a litany of pictured sorrows and of silent cries that she might be the mercy for those sorrows -- but the resolved submission did come ; and when the house was still , and she knew that it was near the time when Mr Casaubon habitually went to rest , she opened her door gently and stood outside in the darkness waiting for his coming up-stairs with a light in his hand . 
If he did not come soon she thought that she would go down and even risk incurring another pang . 
She would never again expect anything else . 
But she did hear the library door open , and slowly the light advanced up the staircase without noise from the footsteps on the carpet . 
When her husband stood opposite to her , she saw that his face was more haggard . 
He started slightly on seeing her , and she looked up at him beseechingly , without speaking . 
`` Dorothea ! '' 
When the kind quiet melancholy of that speech fell on Dorothea 's ears , she felt something like the thankfulness that might well up in us if we had narrowly escaped hurting a lamed creature . 
She put her hand into her husband 's , and they went along the broad corridor together . 
Dorothea seldom left home without her husband , but she did occasionally drive into Middlemarch alone , on little errands of shopping or charity such as occur to every lady of any wealth when she lives within three miles of a town . 
Poor Dorothea needed to lay up stores of patience . 
It was about four o'clock when she drove to Lydgate 's house in Lowick Gate , wishing , in her immediate doubt of finding him at home , that she had written beforehand . 
said Dorothea , who had never , that she knew of , seen Rosamond , but now remembered the fact of the marriage . 
When the servant had gone to deliver that message , Dorothea could hear sounds of music through an open window -- a few notes from a man 's voice and then a piano bursting into roulades . 
When the drawing-room door opened and Dorothea entered , there was a sort of contrast not infrequent in country life when the habits of the different ranks were less blent than now . 
Let those who know , tell us exactly what stuff it was that Dorothea wore in those days of mild autumn -- that thin white woollen stuff soft to the touch and soft to the eye . 
Yet if she had entered before a still audience as Imogene or Cato 's daughter , the dress might have seemed right enough : the grace and dignity were in her limbs and neck ; and about her simply parted hair and candid eyes the large round poke which was then in the fate of women , seemed no more odd as a head-dress than the gold trencher we call a halo . 
Dorothea put out her hand with her usual simple kindness , and looked admiringly at Lydgate 's lovely bride -- aware that there was a gentleman standing at a distance , but seeing him merely as a coated figure at a wide angle . 
`` Thank you very much for allowing me to interrupt you , '' said Dorothea , immediately . 
He had already taken up his hat before Dorothea entered . 
She coloured with surprise , but put out her hand with a smile of unmistakable pleasure , saying -- `` I did not know it was you : I had no thought of seeing you here . '' 
`` It would be quicker to send the carriage for him , '' said Dorothea , `` if you will be kind enough to give the message to the coachman . '' 
Will was moving to the door when Dorothea , whose mind had flashed in an instant over many connected memories , turned quickly and said , `` I will go myself , thank you . 
Her mind was evidently arrested by some sudden thought , and she left the room hardly conscious of what was immediately around her -- hardly conscious that Will opened the door for her and offered her his arm to lead her to the carriage . 
She took the arm but said nothing . 
He handed her into the carriage in silence , they said good-bye , and Dorothea drove away . 
In the five minutes ' drive to the Hospital she had time for some reflections that were quite new to her . 
Her decision to go , and her preoccupation in leaving the room , had come from the sudden sense that there would be a sort of deception in her voluntarily allowing any further intercourse between herself and Will which she was unable to mention to her husband , and already her errand in seeking Lydgate was a matter of concealment . 
That was all that had been explicitly in her-mind ; but she had been urged also by a vague discomfort . 
Now that she was alone in her drive , she heard the notes of the man 's voice and the accompanying piano , which she had not noted much at the time , returning on her inward sense ; and she found herself thinking with some wonder that Will Ladislaw was passing his time with Mrs Lydgate in her husband 's absence . 
`` Perhaps I have been mistaken in many things , '' said poor Dorothea to herself , while the tears came rolling and she had to dry them quickly . 
She felt confusedly unhappy , and the image of Will which had been so clear to her before was mysteriously spoiled . 
She was soon walking round the grass plots with Lydgate , and her feelings recovered the strong bent which had made her seek for this interview . 
His chances of meeting Dorothea were rare ; and here for the first time there had come a chance which had set him at a disadvantage . 
It was not only , as it had been hitherto , that she was not supremely occupied with him , but that she had seen him under circumstances in which he might appear not to be supremely occupied with her . 
He felt thrust to a new distance from her , amongst the circles of Middlemarchers who made no part of her life . 
Will was conscious that he should not have been at Middlemarch but for Dorothea ; and yet his position there was threatening to divide him from her with those barriers of habitual sentiment which are more fatal to the persistence of mutual interest than all the distance between Rome and Britain . 
And Will was of a temperament to feel keenly the presence of subtleties : a man of clumsier perceptions would not have felt , as he did , that for the first time some sense of unfitness in perfect freedom with him had sprung up in Dorothea 's mind , and that their silence , as he conducted her to the carriage , had had a chill in it . 
Perhaps Casaubon , in his hatred and jealousy , had been insisting to Dorothea that Will had slid below her socially . 
When Dorothea , walking round the laurel-planted plots of the New Hospital with Lydgate , had learned from him that there were no signs of change in Mr Cassaubon 's bodily condition beyond the mental sign of anxiety to know the truth about his illness , she was silent for a few moments , wondering whether she had said or done anything to rouse this new anxiety . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Dorothea , brightening . 
I mean , '' she said , after a moment 's hesitation , `` that the people in our village are tolerably comfortable , and my mind has been too much taken up for me to inquire further . 
said Dorothea , with naïve surprise . 
`` I quite agree with you , '' said Dorothea , at once fascinated by the situation sketched in Lydgate 's words . 
`` That is all the stronger reason for despising such an opposition , '' said Dorothea , looking at the affairs of Middlemarch by the light of the great persecutions . 
exclaimed Dorothea , indignantly . 
`` I am glad you have told me this , Mr Lydgate , '' said Dorothea , cordially . 
There was a melancholy cadence in Dorothea 's voice as she spoke these last words . 
But she presently added , more cheerfully , `` Pray come to Lowick and tell us more of this . 
She did mention it that evening , and said that she should like to subscribe two hundred a-year -- she had seven hundred a-year as the equivalent of her own fortune , settled on her at her marriage . 
Mr Casaubon made no objection beyond a passing remark that the sum might be disproportionate in relation to other good objects , but when Dorothea in her ignorance resisted that suggestion , he acquiesced . 
Dorothea told him that she had seen Lydgate , and recited the gist of her conversation with him about the Hospital . 
Mr Casaubon did not question her further , but he felt sure that she had wished to know what had passed between Lydgate and himself . 
He distrusted her affection ; and what loneliness is more lonely than distrust ? 
That opposition to the New Fever Hospital which Lydgate had sketched to Dorothea was , like other oppositions , to be viewed in many different lights . 
Affairs were in this stage when Lydgate opened the subject of the Hospital to Dorothea . 
It is undeniable that but for the desire to be where Dorothea was , and perhaps the want of knowing what else to do , Will would not at this time have been meditating on the needs of the English people or criticising English statesmanship : he would probably have been rambling in Italy sketching plans for several dramas , trying prose and finding it too jejune , trying verse and finding it too artificial , beginning to copy `` bits '' from old pictures , leaving off because they were `` no good , '' and observing that , after all , self-culture was the principal point ; while in politics he would have been sympathising warmly with liberty and progress in general . 
That sort of enjoyment had been disturbed when he had felt some new distance between himself and Dorothea in their accidental meeting at Lydgate 's , and his irritation had gone out towards Mr Casaubon , who had declared beforehand that Will would lose caste . 
The way in which he made a sort of happiness for himself out of his feeling for Dorothea was an example of this . 
It may seem strange , but it is the fact , that the ordinary vulgar vision of which Mr Casaubon suspected him -- namely , that Dorothea might become a widow , and that the interest he had established in her mind might turn into acceptance of him as a husband -- had no tempting , arresting power over him ; he did not live in the scenery of such an event , and follow it out , as we all do with that imagined `` otherwise '' which is our practical heaven . 
It was not only that he was unwilling to entertain thoughts which could be accused of baseness , and was already uneasy in the sense that he had to justify himself from the charge of ingratitude -- the latent consciousness of many other barriers between himself and Dorothea besides the existence of her husband , had helped to turn away his imagination from speculating on what might befall Mr Casaubon . 
Will , we know , could not bear the thought of any flaw appearing in his crystal : he was at once exasperated and delighted by the calm freedom with which Dorothea looked at him and spoke to him , and there was something so exquisite in thinking of her just as she was , that he could not long for a change which must somehow change her . 
Our good depends on the quality and breadth of our emotion ; and to Will , a creature who cared little for what are called the solid things of life and greatly for its subtler influences , to have within him such a feeling as he had towards Dorothea , was like the inheritance of a fortune . 
Dorothea , he said to himself , was for ever enthroned in his soul : no other woman could sit higher than her footstool ; and if he could have written out in immortal syllables the effect she wrought within him , he might have boasted after the example of old Drayton , that -- `` Queens hereafter might be glad to live Upon the aims of her superfluous praise . '' 
And what else could he do for Dorothea ? 
What was his devotion worth to her ? 
He would not go out of her reach . 
He saw no creature among her friends to whom he could believe that she spoke with the same simple confidence as to him . 
She had once said that she would like him to stay ; and stay he would , whatever fire-breathing dragons might hiss around her . 
He had often got irritated , as he was on this particular night , by some outside demonstration that his public exertions with Mr Brooke as a chief could not seem as heroic as he would like them to be , and this was always associated with the other ground of irritation -- that notwithstanding his sacrifice of dignity for Dorothea 's sake , he could hardly ever see her . 
Nevertheless , since the inward debate necessarily turned on Dorothea , he ended , as he had done before , only by getting a livelier sense of what her presence would be to him ; and suddenly reflecting that the morrow would be Sunday , he determined to go to Lowick Church and see her . 
He slept upon that idea , but when he was dressing in the rational morning light , Objection said -- `` That will be a virtual defiance of Mr Casaubon 's prohibition to visit Lowick , and Dorothea will be displeased . '' 
And Dorothea will be glad . '' 
`` It will be clear to Mr Casaubon that you have come either to annoy him or to see Dorothea . '' 
`` It is not true that I go to annoy him , and why should I not go to see Dorothea ? 
The curate 's pew was opposite the rector 's at the entrance of the small chancel , and Will had time to fear that Dorothea might not come while he looked round at the group of rural faces which made the congregation from year to year within the white-washed walls and dark old pews , hardly with more change than we see in the boughs of a tree which breaks here and there with age , but yet has young shoots . 
Dorothea did at last appear on this quaint background , walking up the short aisle in her white beaver bonnet and grey cloak -- the same she had worn in the Vatican . 
Her face being , from her entrance , towards the chancel , even her short-sighted eyes soon discerned Will , but there was no outward show of her feeling except a slight paleness and a grave bow as she passed him . 
To his own surprise Will felt suddenly uncomfortable , and dared not look at her after they had bowed to each other . 
Two minutes later , when Mr Casaubon came out of the vestry , and , entering the pew , seated himself in face of Dorothea , Will felt his paralysis more complete . 
He could look nowhere except at the quire in the little gallery over the vestry-door : Dorothea was perhaps pained , and he had made a wretched blunder . 
Still he called himself stupid now for not foreseeing that it would be impossible for him to look towards Dorothea -- nay , that she might feel his coming an impertinence . 
But that gentleman 's eyes were on the button of the pew-door , which he opened , allowing Dorothea to pass , and following her immediately without raising his eyelids . 
had caught Dorothea 's as she turned out of the pew , and again she bowed , but this time with a look of agitation , as if she were repressing tears . 
Dorothea 's distress when she was leaving the church came chiefly from the perception that Mr Casaubon was determined not to speak to his cousin , and that Will 's presence at church had served to mark more strongly the alienation between them . 
Will 's coming seemed to her quite excusable , nay , she thought it an amiable movement in him towards a reconciliation which she herself had been constantly wishing for . 
He had probably imagined , as she had , that if Mr Casaubon and he could meet easily , they would shake hands and friendly intercourse might return . 
But now Dorothea felt quite robbed of that hope . 
He had not been very well that morning , suffering from some difficulty in breathing , and had not preached in consequence ; she was not surprised , therefore , that he was nearly silent at luncheon , still less that he made no allusion to Will Ladislaw . 
For her own part she felt that she could never again introduce that subject . 
They usually spent apart the hours between luncheon and dinner on a Sunday ; Mr Casaubon in the library dozing chiefly , and Dorothea in her boudoir , where she was wont to occupy herself with some of her favourite books . 
There was a little heap of them on the table in the bow-window -- of various sorts , from Herodotus , which she was learning to read with Mr Casaubon , to her old companion Pascal , and Keble 's ` Christian Year . ' 
But to-day she opened one after another , and could read none of them . 
-- devout epigrams -- the sacred chime of favourite hymns -- all alike were as flat as tunes beaten on wood : even the spring flowers and the grass had a dull shiver in them under the afternoon clouds that hid the sun fitfully ; even the sustaining thoughts which had become habits seemed to have in them the weariness of long future days in which she would still live with them for her sole companions . 
It was another or rather a fuller sort of companionship that poor Dorothea was hungering for , and the hunger had grown from the perpetual effort demanded by her married life . 
She was always trying to be what her husband wished , and never able to repose on his delight in what she was . 
The thing that she liked , that she spontaneously cared to have , seemed to be always excluded from her life ; for if it was only granted and not shared by her husband it might as well have been denied . 
About Will Ladislaw there had been a difference between them from the first , and it had ended , since Mr Casaubon had so severely repulsed Dorothea 's strong feeling about his claims on the family property , by her being convinced that she was in the right and her husband in the wrong , but that she was helpless . 
This afternoon the helplessness was more wretchedly benumbing than ever : she longed for objects who could be dear to her , and to whom she could be dear . 
She longed for work which would be directly beneficent like the sunshine and the rain , and now it appeared that she was to live more and more in a virtual tomb , where there was the apparatus of a ghastly labour producing what would never see the light . 
To-day she had stood at the door of the tomb and seen Will Ladislaw receding into the distant world of warm activity and fellowship -- turning his face towards her as he went . 
It was Sunday , and she could not have the carriage to go to Celia , who had lately had a baby . 
There was no refuge now from spiritual emptinesss and discontent , and Dorothea had to bear her bad mood , as she would have borne a headache . 
After dinner , at the hour when she usually began to read aloud , Mr Casaubon proposed that they should go into the library , where , he said , he had ordered a fire and lights . 
In the library Dorothea observed that he had newly arranged a row of his note-books on a table , and now he took up and put into her hand a well-known volume , which was a table of contents to all the others . 
This proposal was only one more sign added to many since his memorable interview with Lydgate , that Mr Casaubon 's original reluctance to let Dorothea work with him had given place to the contrary disposition , namely , to demand much interest and labour from her . 
After she had read and marked for two hours , he said , `` We will take the volume up-stairs -- and the pencil , if you please -- and in case of reading in the night , we can pursue this task . 
It is not wearisome to you , I trust , Dorothea ? '' 
`` I prefer always reading what you like best to hear , '' said Dorothea , who told the simple truth , for what she dreaded was to exert herself in reading or anything else which left him as joyless as ever . 
It was a proof of the force with which certain characteristics in Dorothea impressed those around her , that her husband , with all his jealousy and suspicion , had gathered implicit trust in the integrity of her promises , and her power of devoting herself to her idea of the right and best . 
Dorothea in her young weariness had slept soon and fast : she was awakened by a sense of light , which seemed to her at first like a sudden vision of sunset after she had climbed a steep hill : she opened her eyes and saw her husband wrapped in his warm gown seating himself in the arm-chair near the fire-place where the embers were still glowing . 
He had lit two candles , expecting that Dorothea would awake , but not liking to rouse her by more direct means . 
she said , rising immediately . 
She threw wood on the fire , wrapped herself up , and said , `` You would like me to read to you ? '' 
`` You would oblige me greatly by doing so , Dorothea , '' said Mr Casaubon , with a shade more meekness than usual in his polite manner . 
`` I fear that the excitement may be too great for you , '' said Dorothea , remembering Lydgate 's cautions . 
Dorothea dared not insist , and she read for an hour or more on the same plan as she had done in the evening , but getting over the pages with more quickness . 
Dorothea was amazed to think of the bird-like speed with which his mind was surveying the ground where it had been creeping for years . 
You have perceived that distinctly , Dorothea ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Dorothea , rather tremulously . 
She felt sick at heart . 
He lay down again and begged her to put out the lights . 
When she had lain down too , and there was a darkness only broken by a dull glow on the hearth , he said -- `` Before I sleep , I have a request to make , Dorothea . '' 
said Dorothea , with dread in her mind . 
Dorothea was not taken by surprise : many incidents had been leading her to the conjecture of some intention on her husband 's part which might make a new yoke for her . 
She did not answer immediately . 
`` No , I do not yet refuse , '' said Dorothea , in a clear voice , the need of freedom asserting itself within her ; `` but it is too solemn -- I think it is not right -- to make a promise when I am ignorant what it will bind me to . 
said Dorothea , beseechingly , crushed by opposing fears . 
`` Grant me till to-morrow , '' said Dorothea , beseechingly . 
Soon she could hear that he was sleeping , but there was no more sleep for her . 
While she constrained herself to lie still lest she should disturb him , her mind was carrying on a conflict in which imagination ranged its forces first on one side and then on the other . 
She had no presentiment that the power which her husband wished to establish over her future action had relation to anything else than his work . 
But it was clear enough to her that he would expect her to devote herself to sifting those mixed heaps of material , which were to be the doubtful illustration of principles still more doubtful . 
The poor child had become altogether unbelieving as to the trustworthiness of that Key which had made the ambition and the labour of her husband 's life . 
It was not wonderful that , in spite of her small instruction , her judgment in this matter was truer than his : for she looked with unbiassed comparison and healthy sense at probabilities on which he had risked all his egoism . 
And now she pictured to herself the days , and months , and years which she must spend in sorting what might be called shattered mummies , and fragments of a tradition which was itself a mosaic wrought from crushed ruins -- sorting them as food for a theory which was already withered in the birth like an elfin child . 
And Dorothea had so often had to check her weariness and impatience over this questionable riddle-guessing , as it revealed itself to her instead of the fellowship in high knowledge which was to make life worthier ! 
She could understand well enough now why her husband had come to cling to her , as possibly the only hope left that his labours would ever take a shape in which they could be given to the world . 
At first it had seemed that he wished to keep even her aloof from any close knowledge of what he was doing ; but gradually the terrible stringency of human need -- the prospect of a too speedy death -- And here Dorothea 's pity turned from her own future to her husband 's past -- nay , to his present hard struggle with a lot which had grown out of that past : the lonely labour , the ambition breathing hardly under the pressure of self-distrust ; the goal receding , and the heavier limbs ; and now at last the sword visibly trembling above him ! 
And had she not wished to marry him that she might help him in his life 's labour ? 
-- But she had thought the work was to be something greater , which she could serve in devoutly for its own sake . 
Was it right , even to soothe his grief -- would it be possible , even if she promised -- to work as in a treadmill fruitlessly ? 
And yet , could she deny him ? 
Could she say , `` I refuse to content this pining hunger ? '' 
It would be refusing to do for him dead , what she was almost sure to do for him living . 
If he lived as Lydgate had said he might , for fifteen years or more , her life would certainly be spent in helping him and obeying him . 
While he lived , he could claim nothing that she would not still be free to remonstrate against , and even to refuse . 
But -- the thought passed through her mind more than once , though she could not believe in it -- might he not mean to demand something more from her than she had been able to imagine , since he wanted her pledge to carry out his wishes without telling her exactly what they were ? 
And now , if she were to say , `` No ! 
if you die , I will put no finger to your work '' -- it seemed as if she would be crushing that bruised heart . 
For four hours Dorothea lay in this conflict , till she felt ill and bewildered , unable to resolve , praying mutely . 
Helpless as a child which has sobbed and sought too long , she fell into a late morning sleep , and when she waked Mr Casaubon was already up . 
Tantripp told her that he had read prayers , breakfasted , and was in the library . 
said Dorothea , smiling faintly . 
let me make haste , '' said Dorothea . 
When she went down she felt sure that she should promise to fulfil his wishes ; but that would be later in the day -- not yet . 
As Dorothea entered the library , Mr Casaubon turned round from the table where he had been placing some books , and said -- `` I was waiting for your appearance , my dear . 
`` I am glad to hear that , '' said Dorothea . 
`` I would fain have it set at rest on the point I last spoke of , Dorothea . 
said Dorothea , winning a little breathing space in that way . 
`` I shall be in the Yew-Tree Walk for the next half-hour , '' said Mr Casaubon , and then he left her . 
Dorothea , feeling very weary , rang and asked Tantripp to bring her some wraps . 
She had been sitting still for a few minutes , but not in any renewal of the former conflict : she simply felt that she was going to say `` Yes '' to her own doom : she was too weak , too full of dread at the thought of inflicting a keen-edged blow on her husband , to do anything but submit completely . 
She sat still and let Tantripp put on her bonnet and shawl , a passivity which was unusual with her , for she liked to wait on herself . 
said Tantripp , with an irrepressible movement of love towards the beautiful , gentle creature for whom she felt unable to do anything more , now that she had finished tying the bonnet . 
This was too much for Dorothea 's highly-strung feeling , and she burst into tears , sobbing against Tantripp 's arm . 
But soon she checked herself , dried her eyes , and went out at the glass door into the shrubbery . 
She had been at Rome , and visited the antiquities , as we know ; and she always declined to call Mr Casaubon anything but `` your master , '' when speaking to the other servants . 
When Dorothea was out on the gravel walks , she lingered among the nearer clumps of trees , hesitating , as she had done once before , though from a different cause . 
Then she had feared lest her effort at fellowship should be unwelcome ; now she dreaded going to the spot where she foresaw that she must bind herself to a fellowship from which she shrank . 
Neither law nor the world 's opinion compelled her to this -- only her husband 's nature and her own compassion , only the ideal and not the real yoke of marriage . 
She saw clearly enough the whole situation , yet she was fettered : she could not smite the stricken soul that entreated hers . 
If that were weakness , Dorothea was weak . 
But the half-hour was passing , and she must not delay longer . 
When she entered the Yew-Tree Walk she could not see her husband ; but the walk had bends , and she went , expecting to catch sight of his figure wrapped in a blue cloak , which , with a warm velvet cap , was his outer garment on chill days for the garden . 
It occurred to her that he might be resting in the summer-house , towards which the path diverged a little . 
Turning the angle , she could see him seated on the bench , close to a stone table . 
`` He exhausted himself last night , '' Dorothea said to herself , thinking at first that he was asleep , and that the summer-house was too damp a place to rest in . 
But then she remembered that of late she had seen him take that attitude when she was reading to him , as if he found it easier than any other ; and that he would sometimes speak , as well as listen , with his face down in that way . 
She went into the summer-house and said , `` I am come , Edward ; I am ready . '' 
He took no notice , and she thought that he must be fast asleep . 
She laid her hand on his shoulder , and repeated , `` I am ready ! '' 
Still he was motionless ; and with a sudden confused fear , she leaned down to him , took off his velvet cap , and leaned her cheek close to his head , crying in a distressed tone , `` Wake , dear , wake ! 
But Dorothea never gave her answer . 
Later in the day , Lydgate was seated by her bedside , and she was talking deliriously , thinking aloud , and recalling what had gone through her mind the night before . 
She knew him , and called him by his name , but appeared to think it right that she should explain everything to him ; and again , and again , begged him to explain everything to her husband . 
But the silence in her husband 's ear was never more to be broken . 
`` I wish to God we could hinder Dorothea from knowing this , '' said Sir James Chettam , with the little frown on his brow , and an expression of intense disgust about his mouth . 
It was the day after Mr Casaubon had been buried , and Dorothea was not yet able to leave her room . 
`` That would be difficult , you know , Chettam , as she is an executrix , and she likes to go into these things -- property , land , that kind of thing . 
She has her notions , you know , '' said Mr Brooke , sticking his eye-glasses on nervously , and exploring the edges of a folded paper which he held in his hand ; `` and she would like to act -- depend upon it , as an executrix Dorothea would want to act . 
And she was twenty-one last December , you know . 
Until Dorothea is well , all business must be kept from her , and as soon as she is able to be moved she must come to us . 
At any rate , as Dorothea 's brother-in-law , I feel warranted in objecting strongly to his being kept here by any action on the part of her friends . 
`` I say that he has most unfairly compromised Dorothea . 
I say that there never was a meaner , more ungentlemanly action than this -- a codicil of this sort to a will which he made at the time of his marriage with the knowledge and reliance of her family -- a positive insult to Dorothea ! '' 
`` But I believe Casaubon was only jealous of him on Dorothea 's account , and the world will suppose that she gave him some reason ; and that is what makes it so abominable -- coupling her name with this young fellow 's . '' 
I suppose he meant Dorothea to publish his researches , eh ? 
and she 'll do it , you know ; she has gone into his studies uncommonly . '' 
Dorothea , now . 
As you say , she had better go to Celia as soon as possible . 
She can stay under your roof , and in the mean time things may come round quietly . 
I do n't believe anything of the sort about Dorothea , '' said Sir James -- then frowningly , `` but I suspect Ladislaw . 
In fact , if it were possible to pack him off -- send him to Norfolk Island -- that sort of thing -- it would look all the worse for Dorothea to those who knew about it . 
It would seem as if we distrusted her -- distrusted her , you know . '' 
He put out his hand to reach his hat , implying that he did not mean to contend further , and said , still with some heat -- `` Well , I can only say that I think Dorothea was sacrificed once , because her friends were too careless . 
I shall do what I can , as her brother , to protect her now . '' 
`` You ca n't do better than get her to Freshitt as soon as possible , Chettam . 
Dorothea had been safe at Freshitt Hall nearly a week before she had asked any dangerous questions . 
Every morning now she sat with Celia in the prettiest of up-stairs sitting-rooms , opening into a small conservatory -- Celia all in white and lavender like a bunch of mixed violets , watching the remarkable acts of the baby , which were so dubious to her inexperienced mind that all conversation was interrupted by appeals for their interpretation made to the oracular nurse . 
Dorothea sat by in her widow 's dress , with an expression which rather provoked Celia , as being much too sad ; for not only was baby quite well , but really when a husband had been so dull and troublesome while he lived , and besides that had -- well , well ! 
Sir James , of course , had told Celia everything , with a strong representation how important it was that Dorothea should not know it sooner than was inevitable . 
But Mr Brooke had been right in predicting that Dorothea would not long remain passive where action had been assigned to her ; she knew the purport of her husband 's will made at the time of their marriage , and her mind , as soon as she was clearly conscious of her position , was silently occupied with what she ought to do as the owner of Lowick Manor with the patronage of the living attached to it . 
One morning when her uncle paid his usual visit , though with an unusual alacrity in his manner which he accounted for by saying that it was now pretty certain Parliament would be dissolved forthwith , Dorothea said -- `` Uncle , it is right now that I should consider who is to have the living at Lowick . 
He has perhaps made some addition to his will -- there may be some instructions for me , '' said Dorothea , who had all the while had this conjecture in her mind with relation to her husband 's work . 
Dorothea 's lip quivered . 
And here is Celia and her little man -- you are an aunt , you know , now , and I am a sort of grandfather , '' said Mr Brooke , with placid hurry , anxious to get away and tell Chettam that it would not be his -LRB- Mr Brooke 's -RRB- fault if Dorothea insisted on looking into everything . 
Dorothea sank back in her chair when her uncle had left the room , and cast her eyes down meditatively on her crossed hands . 
said Celia , in her comfortable staccato . 
said Dorothea , lifting her eyes rather absently . 
A large tear which had been for some time gathering , rolled down Dorothea 's cheek as she looked up and tried to smile . 
said Dorothea , quite meekly . 
She was almost ready now to think Celia wiser than herself , and was really wondering with some fear what her wrong notion was . 
`` Celia , '' said Dorothea , entreatingly , `` you distress me . 
It glanced through her mind that Mr Casaubon had left the property away from her -- which would not be so very distressing . 
`` Why , he has made a codicil to his will , to say the property was all to go away from you if you married -- I mean -- '' `` That is of no consequence , '' said Dorothea , breaking in impetuously . 
The blood rushed to Dorothea 's face and neck painfully . 
Dorothea by this time had turned cold again , and now threw herself back helplessly in her chair . 
She might have compared her experience at that moment to the vague , alarmed consciousness that her life was taking on a new form , that she was undergoing a metamorphosis in which memory would not adjust itself to the stirring of new organs . 
Everything was changing its aspect : her husband 's conduct , her own duteous feeling towards him , every struggle between them -- and yet more , her whole relation to Will Ladislaw . 
Her world was in a state of convulsive change ; the only thing she could say distinctly to herself was , that she must wait and think anew . 
One change terrified her as if it had been a sin ; it was a violent shock of repulsion from her departed husband , who had had hidden thoughts , perhaps perverting everything she said and did . 
Then again she was conscious of another change which also made her tremulous ; it was a sudden strange yearning of heart towards Will Ladislaw . 
It had never before entered her mind that he could , under any circumstances , be her lover : conceive the effect of the sudden revelation that another had thought of him in that light -- that perhaps he himself had been conscious of such a possibility , -- and this with the hurrying , crowding vision of unfitting conditions , and questions not soon to be solved . 
It seemed a long while -- she did not know how long -- before she heard Celia saying , `` That will do , nurse ; he will be quiet on my lap now . 
`` What I think , Dodo , '' Celia went on , observing nothing more than that Dorothea was leaning back in her chair , and likely to be passive , `` is that Mr Casaubon was spiteful . 
Dorothea 's hand was of a marble coldness . 
Then he said , looking at Dorothea , `` I hardly know . 
`` Thank you , '' said Dorothea , exerting herself , `` I am sure that is wise . 
Then , with an effort to recall subjects not connected with her agitation , she added , abruptly , `` You know every one in Middlemarch , I think , Mr Lydgate . 
You know Mr Tyke and all the -- '' But Dorothea 's effort was too much for her ; she broke off and burst into sobs . 
Lydgate made her drink a dose of sal volatile . 
His attendance on Dorothea while her brain was excited , had enabled him to form some true conclusions concerning the trials of her life . 
He felt sure that she had been suffering from the strain and conflict of self-repression ; and that she was likely now to feel herself only in another sort of pinfold than that from which she had been released . 
Lydgate 's advice was all the easier for Sir James to follow when he found that Celia had already told Dorothea the unpleasant fact about the will . 
And the next day Sir James complied at once with her request that he would drive her to Lowick . 
`` I have no wish to stay there at present , '' said Dorothea ; `` I could hardly bear it . 
But no word passed between him and Dorothea about the objectionable part of the will ; indeed , both of them felt that the mention of it between them would be impossible . 
Sir James was shy , even with men , about disagreeble subjects ; and the one thing that Dorothea would have chosen to say , if she had spoken on the matter at all , was forbidden to her at present because it seemed to be a further exposure of her husband 's injustice . 
Yet she did wish that Sir James could know what had passed between her and her husband about Will Ladislaw 's moral claim on the property : it would then , she thought , be apparent to him as it was to her , that her husband 's strange indelicate proviso had been chiefly urged by his bitter resistance to that idea of claim , and not merely by personal feelings more difficult to talk about . 
Also , it must be admitted , Dorothea wished that this could be known for Will 's sake , since her friends seemed to think of him as simply an object of Mr Casaubon 's charity . 
In carrying out this bequest of labour to Dorothea , as in all else , Mr Casaubon had been slow and hesitating , oppressed in the plan of transmitting his work , as he had been in executing it , by the sense of moving heavily in a dim and clogging medium : distrust of Dorothea 's competence to arrange what he had prepared was subdued only by distrust of any other redactor . 
But he had come at last to create a trust for himself out of Dorothea 's nature : she could do what she resolved to do : and he willingly imagined her toiling under the fetters of a promise to erect a tomb with his name upon it . 
But the months gained on him and left his plans belated : he had only had time to ask for that promise by which he sought to keep his cold grasp on Dorothea 's life . 
Bound by a pledge given from the depths of her pity , she would have been capable of undertaking a toil which her judgment whispered was vain for all uses except that consecration of faithfulness which is a supreme use . 
But now her judgment , instead of being controlled by duteous devotion , was made active by the imbittering discovery that in her past union there had lurked the hidden alienation of secrecy and suspicion . 
The living , suffering man was no longer before her to awaken her pity : there remained only the retrospect of painful subjection to a husband whose thoughts had been lower than she had believed , whose exorbitant claims for himself had even blinded his scrupulous care for his own character , and made him defeat his own pride by shocking men of ordinary honour . 
As for the property which was the sign of that broken tie , she would have been glad to be free from it and have nothing more than her original fortune which had been settled on her , if there had not been duties attached to ownership , which she ought not to flinch from . 
About this property many troublous questions insisted on rising : had she not been right in thinking that the half of it ought to go to Will Ladislaw ? 
-- but was it not impossible now for her to do that act of justice ? 
Mr Casaubon had taken a cruelly effective means of hindering her : even with indignation against him in her heart , any act that seemed a triumphant eluding of his purpose revolted her . 
After collecting papers of business which she wished to examine , she locked up again the desks and drawers -- all empty of personal words for her -- empty of any sign that in her husband 's lonely brooding his heart had gone out to her in excuse or explanation ; and she went back to Freshitt with the sense that around his last hard demand and his last injurious assertion of his power , the silence was unbroken . 
Dorothea tried now to turn her thoughts towards immediate duties , and one of these was of a kind which others were determined to remind her of . 
Lydgate 's ear had caught eagerly her mention of the living , and as soon as he could , he reopened the subject , seeing here a possibility of making amends for the casting-vote he had once given with an ill-satisfied conscience . 
said Dorothea , interested now in all who had slipped below their own intention . 
`` I wonder whether he suffers in his conscience because of that habit , '' said Dorothea ; `` I wonder whether he wishes he could leave it off . '' 
`` My uncle says that Mr Tyke is spoken of as an apostolic man , '' said Dorothea , meditatively . 
She was wishing it were possible to restore the times of primitive zeal , and yet thinking of Mr Farebrother with a strong desire to rescue him from his chance-gotten money . 
`` True , '' said Dorothea . 
Happily Dorothea was in her private sitting-room when this conversation occurred , and there was no one present to make Lydgate 's innocent introduction of Ladislaw painful to her . 
Will Ladislaw was one of the busiest at this time ; and though Dorothea 's widowhood was continually in his thought , he was so far from wishing to be spoken to on the subject , that when Lydgate sought him out to tell him what had passed about the Lowick living , he answered rather waspishly -- `` Why should you bring me into the matter ? 
This was a shuffling concession of Mr Brooke 's to Sir James Chettam 's indignant remonstrance ; and Will , awake to the slightest hint in this direction , concluded that he was to be kept away from the Grange on Dorothea 's account . 
Her friends , then , regarded him with some suspicion ? 
Until now Will had never fully seen the chasm between himself and Dorothea -- until now that he was come to the brink of it , and saw her on the other side . 
He began , not without some inward rage , to think of going away from the neighbourhood : it would be impossible for him to show any further interest in Dorothea without subjecting himself to disagreeable imputations -- perhaps even in her mind , which others might try to poison . 
If the impassable gulf between himself and Dorothea were ever to be filled up , it must rather be by his going away and getting into a thoroughly different position than by staying here and slipping into deserved contempt as an understrapper of Brooke 's . 
Then came the young dream of wonders that he might do -- in five years , for example : political writing , political speaking , would get a higher value now public life was going to be wider and more national , and they might give him such distinction that he would not seem to be asking Dorothea to step down to him . 
Five years : -- if he could only be sure that she cared for him more than for others ; if he could only make her aware that he stood aloof until he could tell his love without lowering himself -- then he could go away easily , and begin a career which at five-and-twenty seemed probable enough in the inward order of things , where talent brings fame , and fame everything else which is delightful . 
But not immediately : not until some kind of sign had passed between him and Dorothea . 
He could not be satisfied until she knew why , even if he were the man she would choose to marry , he would not marry her . 
He had already said to Dorothea , `` I do n't feel bound to give up St Botolph 's . 
`` I have thought of that , '' said Dorothea . 
By that delightful morning when the hayricks at Stone Court were scenting the air quite impartially , as if Mr Raffles had been a guest worthy of finest incense , Dorothea had again taken up her abode at Lowick Manor . 
Dorothea would have been capable of carrying baby joyfully for a mile if there had been need , and of loving it the more tenderly for that labour ; but to an aunt who does not recognise her infant nephew as Bouddha , and has nothing to do for him but to admire , his behaviour is apt to appear monotonous , and the interest of watching him exhaustible . 
This possibility was quite hidden from Celia , who felt that Dorothea 's childless widowhood fell in quite prettily with the birth of little Arthur -LRB- baby was named after Mr Brooke -RRB- . 
Hence , when she found that Dorothea was making arrangements for her final departure to Lowick , Celia raised her eyebrows with disappointment , and in her quiet unemphatic way shot a needlearrow of sarcasm . 
`` I shall often come here , and I shall see how baby grows all the better , '' said Dorothea . 
`` Dear Kitty , I will come and stay all night on purpose , '' said Dorothea ; `` but I want to be alone now , and in my own home . 
Dorothea 's native strength of will was no longer all converted into resolute submission . 
She had a great yearning to be at Lowick , and was simply determined to go , not feeling bound to tell all her reasons . 
But every one around her disapproved . 
The Dowager Lady Chettam , just returned from a visit to her daughter in town , wished , at least , that Mrs Vigo should be written to , and invited to accept the office of companion to Mrs Casaubon : it was not credible that Dorothea as a young widow would think of living alone in the house at Lowick . 
Mrs Vigo had been reader and secretary to royal personages , and in point of knowledge and sentiments even Dorothea could have nothing to object to her . 
`` I never called everything by the same name that all the people about me did , '' said Dorothea , stoutly . 
Dorothea was aware of the sting , but it did not hurt her . 
`` No , '' she said , `` I still think that the greater part of the world is mistaken about many things . 
Mrs Cadwallader said no more on that point to Dorothea , but to her husband she remarked , `` It will be well for her to marry again as soon as it is proper , if one could get her among the right people . 
Dorothea quietly persisted in spite of remonstrance and persuasion . 
So by the end of June the shutters were all opened at Lowick Manor , and the morning gazed calmly into the library , shining on the rows of note-books as it shines on the weary waste planted with huge stones , the mute memorial of a forgotten faith ; and the evening laden with roses entered silently into the blue-green boudoir where Dorothea chose oftenest to sit . 
At first she walked into every room , questioning the eighteen months of her married life , and carrying on her thoughts as if they were a speech to be heard by her husband . 
Then , she lingered in the library and could not be at rest till she had carefully ranged all the note-books as she imagined that he would wish to see them , in orderly sequence . 
The pity which had been the restraining compelling motive in her life with him still clung about his image , even while she remonstrated with him in indignant thought and told him that he was unjust . 
-- Dorothea . '' 
It was true that Dorothea wanted to know the Farebrothers better , and especially to talk to the new rector , but also true that remembering what Lydgate had told her about Will Ladislaw and little Miss Noble , she counted on Will 's coming to Lowick to see the Farebrother family . 
The very first Sunday , before she entered the church , she saw him as she had seen him the last time she was there , alone in the clergyman 's pew ; but when she entered his figure was gone . 
In the week-days when she went to see the ladies at the Rectory , she listened in vain for some word that they might let fall about Will ; but it seemed to her that Mrs Farebrother talked of every one else in the neighbourhood and out of it . 
said Dorothea , rather despising herself for having a secret motive in asking the question . 
Mrs Farebrother recurred to her knitting with a dignified satisfaction in her neat little effort at oratory , but this was not what Dorothea wanted to hear . 
she did not even know whether Will Ladislaw was still at Middlemarch , and there was no one whom she dared to ask , unless it were Lydgate . 
But just now she could not see Lydgate without sending for him or going to seek him . 
Perhaps Will Ladislaw , having heard of that strange ban against him left by Mr Casaubon , had felt it better that he and she should not meet again , and perhaps she was wrong to wish for a meeting that others might find many good reasons against . 
And the meeting did happen , but in a formal way quite unexpected by her . 
One morning , about eleven , Dorothea was seated in her boudoir with a map of the land attached to the manor and other papers before her , which were to help her in making an exact statement for herself of her income and affairs . 
She had not yet applied herself to her work , but was seated with her hands folded on her lap , looking out along the avenue of limes to the distant fields . 
Every leaf was at rest in the sunshine , the familiar scene was changeless , and seemed to represent the prospect of her life , full of motiveless ease -- motiveless , if her own energy could not seek out reasons for ardent action . 
The widow 's cap of those times made an oval frame for the face , and had a crown standing up ; the dress was an experiment in the utmost laying on of crape ; but this heavy solemnity of clothing made her face look all the younger , with its recovered bloom , and the sweet , inquiring candour of her eyes . 
Her reverie was broken by Tantripp , who came to say that Mr Ladislaw was below , and begged permission to see Madam if it were not too early . 
`` I will see him , '' said Dorothea , rising immediately . 
The drawing-room was the most neutral room in the house to her -- the one least associated with the trials of her married life : the damask matched the wood-work , which was all white and gold ; there were two tall mirrors and tables with nothing on them -- in brief , it was a room where you had no reason for sitting in one place rather than in another . 
There were not many moments for Will to walk about with his hat in his hand before Dorothea entered . 
The meeting was very different from that first meeting in Rome when Will had been embarrassed and Dorothea calm . 
This time he felt miserable but determined , while she was in a state of agitation which could not be hidden . 
Just outside the door she had felt that this longed-for meeting was after all too difficult , and when she saw Will advancing towards her , the deep blush which was rare in her came with painful suddenness . 
She gave her hand for a moment , and then they went to sit down near the window , she on one settee and he on another opposite . 
Will was peculiarly uneasy : it seemed to him not like Dorothea that the mere fact of her being a widow should cause such a change in her manner of receiving him ; and he knew of no other condition which could have affected their previous relation to each other -- except that , as his imagination at once told him , her friends might have been poisoning her mind with their suspicions of him . 
I should have thought it unkind if you had not wished to see me , '' said Dorothea , her habit of speaking with perfect genuineness asserting itself through all her uncertainty and agitation . 
`` And that will make it all the more honourable , '' said Dorothea , ardently . 
While she was speaking Dorothea had lost her personal embarrassment , and had become like her former self . 
She looked at Will with a direct glance , full of delighted confidence . 
said Will , trying hard to reconcile the utmost pride with the utmost effort to get an expression of strong feeling from Dorothea . 
She was not aware how long it was before she answered . 
She had turned her head and was looking out of the window on the rosebushes , which seemed to have in them the summers of all the years when Will would be away . 
But Dorothea never thought of studying her manners : she thought only of bowing to a sad necessity which divided her from Will . 
Those first words of his about his intentions had seemed to make everything clear to her : he knew , she supposed , all about Mr Casaubon 's final conduct in relation to him , and it had come to him with the same sort of shock as to herself . 
He had never felt more than friendship for her -- had never had anything in his mind to justify what she felt to be her husband 's outrage on the feelings of both : and that friendship he still felt . 
Something which may be called an inward silent sob had gone on in Dorothea before she said with a pure voice , just trembling in the last words as if only from its liquid flexibility -- `` Yes , it must be right for you to do as you say . 
`` No , '' said Dorothea , `` I shall never forget you . 
She smiled . 
Moreover , it was actually true that he was fearful of the effect which such confessions might have on Dorothea herself . 
She looked at him from that distance in some trouble , imagining that there might have been an offence in her words . 
But all the while there was a current of thought in her about his probable want of money , and the impossibility of her helping him . 
If her uncle had been at home , something might have been done through him ! 
It was this preoccupation with the hardship of Will 's wanting money , while she had what ought to have been his share , which led her to say , seeing that he remained silent and looked away from her -- `` I wonder whether you would like to have that miniature which hangs up-stairs -- I mean that beautiful miniature of your grandmother . 
`` I thought you would like to cherish her memory -- I thought -- '' Dorothea broke off an instant , her imagination suddenly warning her away from Aunt Julia 's history -- `` you would surely like to have the miniature as a family memorial . '' 
But to Dorothea 's feeling his words had a peculiar sting . 
She rose and said with a touch of indignation as well as hauteur -- `` You are much the happier of us two , Mr Ladislaw , to have nothing . '' 
Whatever the words might be , the tone seemed like a dismissal ; and quitting his leaning posture , he walked a little way towards her . 
Will had really never thought of himself as having a claim of inheritance on the property which was held by Dorothea , and would have required a narrative to make him understand her present feeling . 
The words cut Dorothea to the heart , and made her relent . 
She answered in a tone of sad fellowship . 
I was very fond of doing as I liked , but I have almost given it up , '' she ended , smiling playfully . 
He was standing two yards from her with his mind full of contradictory desires and resolves -- desiring some unmistakable proof that she loved him , and yet dreading the position into which such a proof might bring him . 
`` Ask Sir James to come in here , '' said Dorothea , immediately . 
It was as if the same electric shock had passed through her and Will . 
After shaking hands with Dorothea , he bowed as slightly as possible to Ladislaw , who repaid the slightness exactly , and then going towards Dorothea , said -- `` I must say good-bye , Mrs Casaubon ; and probably for a long while . '' 
Dorothea put out her hand and said her good-bye cordially . 
The sense that Sir James was depreciating Will , and behaving rudely to him , roused her resolution and dignity : there was no touch of confusion in her manner . 
And when Will had left the room , she looked with such calm self-possession at Sir James , saying , `` How is Celia ? '' 
Indeed , Sir James shrank with so much dislike from the association even in thought of Dorothea with Ladislaw as her possible lover , that he would himself have wished to avoid an outward show of displeasure which would have recognised the disagreeable possibility . 
-- though on reflection he might have urged that Mr Casaubon 's codicil , barring Dorothea 's marriage with Will , except under a penalty , was enough to cast unfitness over any relation at all between them . 
Entering at that moment , he was an incorporation of the strongest reasons through which Will 's pride became a repellent force , keeping him asunder from Dorothea . 
To Dorothea , still in that time of youth when the eyes with their long full lashes look out after their rain of tears unsoiled and unwearied as a freshly-opened passion-flower , that morning 's parting with Will Ladislaw seemed to be the close of their personal relations . 
`` I am so used to the cap -- it has become a sort of shell , '' said Dorothea , smiling . 
`` I must see you without it ; it makes us all warm , '' said Celia , throwing down her fan , and going to Dorothea . 
`` Not on my account , Sir James , '' said Dorothea , determined not to lose the opportunity of freeing herself from certain oblique references to excellent matches . 
Later in the evening , after Mrs Cadwallader was gone , Celia said privately to Dorothea , `` Really , Dodo , taking your cap off made you like yourself again in more ways than one . 
`` Neither , '' said Dorothea . 
`` But you know , Dodo , if you ever did marry , it would be all the better to have blood and beauty , '' said Celia , reflecting that Mr Casaubon had not been richly endowed with those gifts , and that it would be well to caution Dorothea in time . 
I shall never marry again , '' said Dorothea , touching her sister 's chin , and looking at her with indulgent affection . 
Celia was nursing her baby , and Dorothea had come to say good-night to her . 
Dorothea shook her head slowly . 
Sir James was informed that same night that Dorothea was really quite set against marrying anybody at all , and was going to take to `` all sorts of plans , '' just like what she used to have . 
To his secret feeling , there was something repulsive in a woman 's second marriage , and no match would prevent him from feeling it a sort of desecration for Dorothea . 
But if Dorothea did choose to espouse her solitude , he felt that the resolution would well become her . 
Dorothea 's confidence in Caleb Garth 's knowledge , which had begun on her hearing that he approved of her cottages , had grown fast during her stay at Freshitt , Sir James having induced her to take rides over the two estates in company with himself and Caleb , who quite returned her admiration , and told his wife that Mrs Casaubon had a head for business most uncommon in a woman . 
With this good understanding between them , it was natural that Dorothea asked Mr Garth to undertake any business connected with the three farms and the numerous tenements attached to Lowick Manor ; indeed , his expectation of getting work for two was being fast fulfilled . 
One morning , not long after that interview between Mr Farebrother and Mary Garth , in which she confessed to him her feeling for Fred Vincy , it happened that her father had some business which took him to Yoddrell 's farm in the direction of Frick : it was to measure and value an outlying piece of land belonging to Lowick Manor , which Caleb expected to dispose of advantageously for Dorothea -LRB- it must be confessed that his bias was towards getting the best possible terms from railroad companies -RRB- . 
It was some weeks since Will had parted from Dorothea , yet he was still at the old post in Middlemarch . 
But this power of generalising which gives men so much the superiority in mistake over the dumb animals , was immediately thwarted by Lydgate 's memory of wondering impressions from the behaviour of another woman -- from Dorothea 's looks and tones of emotion about her husband when Lydgate began to attend him -- from her passionate cry to be taught what would best comfort that man for whose sake it seemed as if she must quell every impulse in her except the yearnings of faithfulness and compassion . 
He had shut his eyes in the last instant of reverie while he heard Dorothea saying , `` Advise me -- think what I can do -- he has been all his life labouring and looking forward . 
Now Lydgate , like Mr Farebrother , knew a great deal more than he told , and when he had once been set thinking about the relation between Will and Dorothea his conjectures had gone beyond the fact . 
At the present moment , however , when Mr Bulstrode was speaking to him , he had both a strengthened resolve to go and an equally strong resolve not to go till he had once more seen Dorothea . 
But it Dorothea 's friends had known this story -- if the Chettams had known it -- they would have had a fine colour to give their suspicions , a welcome ground for thinking him unfit to come near her . 
No one but himself then knew how everything connected with the sentiment of his own dignity had an immediate bearing for him on his relation to Dorothea and to Mr Casaubon 's treatment of him . 
And in the rush of impulses by which he flung back that offer of Bulstrode 's , there was mingled the sense that it would have been impossible for him ever to tell Dorothea that he had accepted it . 
Will Ladislaw 's mind was now wholly bent on seeing Dorothea again , and forthwith quitting Middlemarch . 
The morning after his agitating scene with Bulstrode he wrote a brief letter to her , saying that various causes had detained him in the neighbourhood longer than he had expected , and asking her permission to call again at Lowick at some hour which she would mention on the earliest possible day , he being anxious to depart , but unwilling to do so until she had granted him an interview . 
Still it was on the whole more satisfactory to his feeling to take the directest means of seeing Dorothea , than to use any device which might give an air of chance to a meeting of which he wished her to understand that it was what he earnestly sought . 
When he had parted from her before , he had been in ignorance of facts which gave a new aspect to the relation between them , and made a more absolute severance than he had then believed in . 
He knew nothing of Dorothea 's private fortune , and being little used to reflect on such matters , took it for granted that according to Mr Casaubon 's arrangement marriage to him , Will Ladislaw , would mean that she consented to be penniless . 
That was not what he could wish for even in his secret heart , or even if she had been ready to meet such hard contrast for his sake . 
And then , too , there was the fresh smart of that disclosure about his mother 's family , which if known would be an added reason why Dorothea 's friends should look down upon him as utterly below her . 
The secret hope that after some years he might come back with the sense that he had at least a personal value equal to her wealth , seemed now the dreamy continuation of a dream . 
This change would surely justify him in asking Dorothea to receive him once more . 
But Dorothea on that morning was not at home to receive Will 's note . 
In consequence of a letter from her uncle announcing his intention to be at home in a week , she had driven first to Freshitt to carry the news , meaning to go on to the Grange to deliver some orders with which her uncle had intrusted her -- thinking , as he said , `` a little mental occupation of this sort good for a widow . '' 
Sir James , indeed , though much relieved concerning Dorothea , had been on the watch to learn Ladislaw 's movements , and had an instructed informant in Mr Standish , who was necessarily in his confidence on this matter . 
But he had just heard something from Standish which , while it justified these surmises about Will , offered a means of nullifying all danger with regard to Dorothea . 
Good Sir James was this morning so far unlike himself that he was irritably anxious to say something to Dorothea on a subject which he usually avoided as if it had been a matter of shame to them both . 
He could not use Celia as a medium , because he did not choose that she should know the kind of gossip he had in his mind ; and before Dorothea happened to arrive he had been trying to imagine how , with his shyness and unready tongue , he could ever manage to introduce his communication . 
Her unexpected presence brought him to utter hopelessness in his own power of saying anything unpleasant ; but desperation suggested a resource ; he sent the groom on an unsaddled horse across the park with a pencilled note to Mrs Cadwallader , who already knew the gossip , and would think it no compromise of herself to repeat it as often as required . 
Dorothea was detained on the good pretext that Mr Garth , whom she wanted to see , was expected at the hall within the hour , and she was still talking to Caleb on the gravel when Sir James , on the watch for the rector 's wife , saw her coming and met her with the needful hints . 
`` Only it is desirable that Dorothea should know there are reasons why she should not receive him again ; and I really ca n't say so to her . 
When Dorothea quitted Caleb and turned to meet them , it appeared that Mrs Cadwallader had stepped across the park by the merest chance in the world , just to chat with Celia in a matronly way about the baby . 
`` You began by saying that one report was false , Mrs Cadwallader , and I believe this is false too , '' said Dorothea , with indignant energy ; `` at least , I feel sure it is a misrepresentation . 
Dorothea when thoroughly moved cared little what any one thought of her feelings ; and even if she had been able to reflect , she would have held it petty to keep silence at injurious words about Will from fear of being herself misunderstood . 
Her face was flushed and her lip trembled . 
Sir James , glancing at her , repented of his stratagem ; but Mrs Cadwallader , equal to all occasions , spread the palms of her hands outward and said , `` Heaven grant it , my dear ! 
`` I am going on immediately to Tipton , '' said Dorothea , rather haughtily . 
Sir James could say nothing as he accompanied her to the carriage . 
Dorothea drove along between the berried hedge-rows and the shorn corn-fields , not seeing or hearing anything around . 
The tears came and rolled down her cheeks , but she did not know it . 
The world , it seemed , was turning ugly and hateful , and there was no place for her trustfulness . 
was the voice within her that she listened to ; but all the while a remembrance to which there had always clung a vague uneasiness would thrust itself on her attention -- the remembrance of that day when she had found Will Ladislaw with Mrs Lydgate , and had heard his voice accompanied by the piano . 
`` He said he would never do anything that I disapproved -- I wish I could have told him that I disapproved of that , '' said poor Dorothea , inwardly , feeling a strange alternation between anger with Will and the passionate defence of him . 
-- These were her last thoughts before she felt that the carriage was passing under the archway of the lodge-gate at the Grange , when she hurriedly pressed her handkerchief to her face and began to think of her errands . 
The coachman begged leave to take out the horses for half an hour as there was something wrong with a shoe ; and Dorothea , having the sense that she was going to rest , took off her gloves and bonnet , while she was leaning against a statue in the entrance-hall , and talking to the housekeeper . 
`` The shutters are open , madam , '' said Mrs Kell , following Dorothea , who had walked along as she spoke . 
-LRB- Will had come to fetch a portfolio of his own sketches which he had missed in the act of packing his movables , and did not choose to leave behind . -RRB- 
Dorothea 's heart seemed to turn over as if it had had a blow , but she was not perceptibly checked : in truth , the sense that Will was there was for the moment all-satisfying to her , like the sight of something precious that one has lost . 
When she reached the door she said to Mrs Kell -- `` Go in first , and tell him that I am here . '' 
Will had found his portfolio , and had laid it on the table at the far end of the room , to turn over the sketches and please himself by looking at the memorable piece of art which had a relation to nature too mysterious for Dorothea . 
He was smiling at it still , and shaking the sketches into order with the thought that he might find a letter from her awaiting him at Middlemarch , when Mrs Kell close to his elbow said -- `` Mrs Casaubon is coming in , sir . '' 
Will turned round quickly , and the next moment Dorothea was entering . 
As Mrs Kell closed the door behind her they met : each was looking at the other , and consciousness was overflowed by something that suppressed utterance . 
She moved automatically towards her uncle 's chair against the writing-table , and Will , after drawing it out a little for her , went a few paces off and stood opposite to her . 
`` Pray sit down , '' said Dorothea , crossing her hands on her lap ; `` I am very glad you were here . '' 
Will thought that her face looked just as it did when she first shook hands with him in Rome ; for her widow 's cap , fixed in her bonnet , had gone off with it , and he could see that she had lately been shedding tears . 
But the mixture of anger in her agitation had vanished at the sight of him ; she had been used , when they were face to face , always to feel confidence and the happy freedom which comes with mutual understanding , and how could other people 's words hinder that effect on a sudden ? 
`` I have sent a letter to Lowick Manor to-day , asking leave to see you , '' said Will , seating himself opposite to her . 
`` I thought we had parted when you came to Lowick many weeks ago -- you thought you were going then , '' said Dorothea , her voice trembling a little . 
said Dorothea , timidly . 
`` Yes , '' said Will , impetuously , shaking his head backward , and looking away from her with irritation in his face . 
Will rose from his chair with the last word and went -- he hardly knew where ; but it was to the projecting window nearest him , which had been open as now about the same season a year ago , when he and Dorothea had stood within it and talked together . 
Her whole heart was going out at this moment in sympathy with Will 's indignation : she only wanted to convince him that she had never done him injustice , and he seemed to have turned away from her as if she too had been part of the unfriendly world . 
`` It would be very unkind of you to suppose that I ever attributed any meanness to you , '' she began . 
Then in her ardent way , wanting to plead with him , she moved from her chair and went in front of him to her old place in the window , saying , `` Do you suppose that I ever disbelieved in you ? '' 
When Will saw her there , he gave a start and moved backward out of the window , without meeting her glance . 
Dorothea was hurt by this movement following up the previous anger of his tone . 
She was ready to say that it was as hard on her as on him , and that she was helpless ; but those strange particulars of their relation which neither of them could explicitly mention kept her always in dread of saying too much . 
At this moment she had no belief that Will would in any case have wanted to marry her , and she feared using words which might imply such a belief . 
She only said earnestly , recurring to his last word -- `` I am sure no safeguard was ever needed against you . '' 
He went to the table and fastened up his portfolio , while Dorothea looked at him from the distance . 
What could he say , since what had got obstinately uppermost in his mind was the passionate love for her which he forbade himself to utter ? 
What could she say , since she might offer him no help -- since she was forced to keep the money that ought to have been his ? 
-- since to-day he seemed not to respond as he used to do to her thorough trust and liking ? 
said Dorothea , timidly . 
said Dorothea , with a dangerous tendency to sob . 
Then trying to smile , she added , `` We used to agree that we were alike in speaking too strongly . '' 
Will paused , imagining that it would be impossible for Dorothea to misunderstand this ; indeed he felt that he was contradicting himself and offending against his self-approval in speaking to her so plainly ; but still -- it could not be fairly called wooing a woman to tell her that he would never woo her . 
But Dorothea 's mind wa rapidly going over the past with quite another vision than his . 
The thought that she herself might be what Will most cared for did throb through her an instant , but then came doubt : the memory of the little they had lived through together turned pale and shrank before the memory which suggested how much fuller might have been the intercourse between Will and some one else with whom he had had constant companionship . 
Everything he had said might refer to that other relation , and whatever had passed between him and herself was thorughly explained by what she had always regarded as their simple friendship and the cruel obstruction thrust upon it by her husband 's injurious act . 
Dorothea stood silent , with her eyes cast down dreamily , while images crowded upon her which left the sickening certainty that Will was referring to Mrs Lydgate . 
Dorothea was raising her eyes , and was about to speak , when the door opened and her footman came to say -- `` The horses are ready , madam , whenever you like to start . '' 
`` Presently , '' said Dorothea . 
Then turning to Will , she said , `` I have some memoranda to write for the housekeeper . '' 
`` I must go , '' said Will , when the door had closed again -- advancing towards her . 
`` You have acted in every way rightly , '' said Dorothea , in a low tone , feeling a pressure at her heart which made it difficult to speak . 
She put out her hand , and Will took it for an instant without speaking , for her words had seemed to him cruelly cold and unlike herself . 
Please remember me , '' said Dorothea , repressing a rising sob . 
He had really a movement of anger against her at that moment , and it impelled him to go away without pause . 
It was all one flash to Dorothea -- his last words -- his distant bow to her as he reached the door -- the sense that he was no longer there . 
She sank into the chair , and for a few moments sat like a statue , while images and emotions were hurrying upon her . 
They were parted all the same , but -- Dorothea drew a deep breath and felt her strength return -- she could think of him unrestrainedly . 
It was as if some hard icy pressure had melted , and her consciousness had room to expand : her past was come back to her with larger interpretation . 
Any one watching her might have seen that there was a fortifying thought within her . 
Just as when inventive power is working with glad ease some small claim on the attention is fully met as if it were only a cranny opened to the sunlight , it was easy now for Dorothea to write her memoranda . 
She spoke her last words to the housekeeper in cheerful tones , and when she seated herself in the carriage her eyes were bright and her cheeks blooming under the dismal bonnet . 
She threw back the heavy `` weepers , '' and looked before her , wondering which road Will had taken . 
It was in her nature to be proud that he was blameless , and through all her feelings there ran this vein -- `` I was right to defend him . '' 
The coachman was used to drive his greys at a good pace , Mr Casaubon being unenjoying and impatient in everything away from his desk , and wanting to get to the end of all journeys ; and Dorothea was now bowled along quickly . 
The earth looked like a happy place under the vast heavens , and Dorothea was wishing that she might overtake Will and see him once more . 
After a turn of the road , there he was with the portfolio under his arm ; but the next moment she was passing him while he raised his hat , and she felt a pang at being seated there in a sort of exaltation , leaving him behind . 
She could not look back at him . 
She could no more make any sign that would seem to say , `` Need we part ? '' 
than she could stop the carriage to wait for him . 
Nay , what a world of reasons crowded upon her against any movement of her thought towards a future that might reverse the decision of this day ! 
And yet , so heavily did the world weigh on her in spite of her independent energy , that with this idea of Will as in need of such help and at a disadvantage with the world , there came always the vision of that unfittingness of any closer relation between them which lay in the opinion of every one connected with her . 
She felt to the full all the imperativeness of the motives which urged Will 's conduct . 
How could he dream of her defying the barrier that her husband had placed between them ? 
-- how could she ever say to herself that she would defy it ? 
Very slight matters were enough to gall him in his sensitive mood , and the sight of Dorothea driving past him while he felt himself plodding along as a poor devil seeking a position in a world which in his present temper offered him little that he coveted , made his conduct seem a mere matter of necessity , and took away the sustainment of resolve . 
After all , he had no assurance that she loved him : could any man pretend that he was simply glad in such a case to have the suffering all on his own side ? 
When the carriage drove up to the gate of the manor , Dorothea was out on the gravel , and came to greet them . 
said Dorothea , who looked full of health and animation , and stood with her head bare under the gleaming April lights . 
They walked through the garden towards the churchyard gate , Mr Farebrother wanting to go on to the parsonage ; and Dorothea heard the whole sad story . 
She listened with deep interest , and begged to hear twice over the facts and impressions concerning Lydgate . 
After a short silence , pausing at the churchyard gate , and addressing Mr Farebrother , she said energetically -- `` You do n't believe that Mr Lydgate is guilty of anything base ? 
Dorothea 's impetuous generosity , which would have leaped at once to the vindication of Lydgate from the suspicion of having accepted money as a bribe , underwent a melancholy check when she came to consider all the circumstances of the case by the light of Mr Farebrother 's experience . 
`` I feel convinced that his conduct has not been guilty : I believe that people are almost always better than their neighbours think they are , '' said Dorothea . 
Some of her intensest experience in the last two years had set her mind strongly in opposition to any unfavourable construction of others ; and for the first time she felt rather discontented with Mr Farebrother . 
She disliked this cautious weighing of consequences , instead of an ardent faith in efforts of justice and mercy , which would conquer by their emotional force . 
Two days afterwards , he was dining at the Manor with her uncle and the Chettams , and when the dessert was standing uneaten , the servants were out of the room , and Mr Brooke was nodding in a nap , she returned to the subject with renewed vivacity . 
Dorothea 's tone and manner were not more energetic than they had been when she was at the head of her uncle 's table nearly three years before , and her experience since had given her more right to express a decided opinion . 
He smiled much less ; when he said `` Exactly '' it was more often an introduction to a dissentient opinion than in those submissive bachelor days ; and Dorothea found to her surprise that she had to resolve not to be afraid of him -- all the more because he was really her best friend . 
He disagreed with her now . 
`` But , Dorothea , '' he said , remonstrantly , `` you ca n't undertake to manage a man 's life for him in that way . 
said Dorothea , clasping her hands . 
`` But , my dear Mrs Casaubon , '' said Mr Farebrother , smiling gently at her ardour , `` character is not cut in marble -- it is not something solid and unalterable . 
`` Then it may be rescued and healed , '' said Dorothea . 
Dorothea 's eyes had a moist brightness in them , and the changed tones of her voice roused her uncle , who began to listen . 
`` It is true that a woman may venture on some efforts of sympathy which would hardly succeed if we men undertook them , '' said Mr Farebrother , almost converted by Dorothea 's ardour . 
`` Whatever you do in the end , Dorothea , you should really keep back at present , and not volunteer any meddling with this Bulstrode business . 
Dorothea , submitting uneasily to this discouragement , went with Celia into the library , which was her usual drawing-room . 
said Dorothea . 
`` Of course I submitted to him , because it was my duty ; it was my feeling for him , '' said Dorothea , looking through the prism of her tears . 
Dorothea laughed and forgot her tears . 
She had felt stung and disappointed by Will 's resolution to quit Middlemarch , for in spite of what she knew and guessed about his admiration for Dorothea , she secretly cherished the belief that he had , or would necessarily come to have , much more admiration for herself ; Rosamond being one of those women who live much in the idea that each man they meet would have preferred them if the preference had not been hopeless . 
Some days later , Lydgate was riding to Lowick Manor , in consequence of a summons from Dorothea . 
Dorothea awaited his arrival with eager interest . 
Though , in deference to her masculine advisers , she had refrained from what Sir James had called `` interfering in this Bulstrode business , '' the hardship of Lydgate 's position was continually in her mind , and when Bulstrode applied to her again about the hospital , she felt that the opportunity was come to her which she had been hindered from hastening . 
In her luxurious home , wandering under the boughs of her own great trees , her thought was going out over the lot of others , and her emotions were imprisoned . 
The idea of some active good within her reach , `` haunted her like a passion , '' and another 's need having once come to her as a distinct image , preoccupied her desire with the yearning to give relief , and made her own ease tasteless . 
She was full of confident hope about this interview with Lydgate , never heeding what was said of his personal reserve ; never heeding that she was a very young woman . 
Nothing could have seemed more irrelevant to Dorothea than insistance on her youth and sex when she was moved to show her human fellowship . 
As she sat waiting in the library , she could do nothing but live through again all the past scenes which had brought Lydgate into her memories . 
They all owed their significance to her marriage and its troubles -- but no ; there were two occasions in which the image of Lydgate had come painfully in connection with his wife and some one else . 
The pain had been allayed for Dorothea , but it had left in her an awakened conjecture as to what Lydgate 's marriage might be to him , a susceptibility to the slightest hint about Mrs Lydgate . 
`` I have wished very much to see you for a long while , Mr Lydgate , '' said Dorothea when they were seated opposite each other ; `` but I put off asking you to come until Mr Bulstrode applied to me again about the hospital . 
said Dorothea , pouring out her words in clearness from a full heart . 
`` I beseech you to tell me how everything was , '' said Dorothea , fearlessly . 
He had so often gone over in his mind the possibility of explaining everything without aggravating appearances that would tell , perhaps unfairly , against Bulstrode , and had so often decided against it -- he had so often said to himself that his assertions would not change people 's impressions -- that Dorothea 's words sounded like a temptation to do something which in his soberness he had pronounced to be unreasonable . 
`` Tell me , pray , '' said Dorothea , with simple earnestness ; `` then we can consult together . 
Lydgate turned , remembering where he was , and saw Dorothea 's face looking up at him , with a sweet trustful gravity . 
`` Do trust me , '' said Dorothea ; `` I will not repeat anything without your leave . 
Dorothea 's voice , as she made this childlike picture of what she would do , might have been almost taken as a proof that she could do it effectively . 
The searching tenderness of her woman 's tones seemed made for a defence against ready accusers . 
Lydgate did not stay to think that she was Quixotic : he gave himself up , for the first time in his life , to the exquisite sense of leaning entirely on a generous sympathy , without any check of proud reserve . 
And he told her everything , from the time when , under the pressure of his difficulties , he unwillingly made his first application to Bulstrode ; gradually , in the relief of speaking , getting into a more thorough utterance of what had gone on in his mind -- entering fully into the fact that his treatment of the patient was opposed to the dominant practice , into his doubts at the last , his ideal of medical duty , and his uneasy consciousness that the acceptance of the money had made some difference in his private inclination and professional behaviour , though not in his fulfilment of any publicly recognised obligation . 
said Dorothea . 
`` Suppose , '' said Dorothea , meditatively . 
You may still win a great fame like the Louis and Laennec I have heard you speak of , and we shall all be proud of you , '' she ended , with a smile . 
`` It would be quite worth my while , '' said Dorothea , simply . 
The childlike grave-eyed earnestness with which Dorothea said all this was irresistible -- blent into an adorable whole with her ready understanding of high experience . 
Dorothea felt her heart beginning to beat faster . 
But she feared to say any word , and he went on immediately . 
`` I know , I know -- you could not give her pain , if you were not obliged to do it , '' said Dorothea , with keen memory of her own life . 
`` But when she saw the good that might come of staying -- '' said Dorothea , remonstrantly , looking at Lydgate as if he had forgotten the reasons which had just been considered . 
He paused a moment and then , following the impulse to let Dorothea see deeper into the difficulty of his life , he said , `` The fact is , this trouble has come upon her confusedly . 
said Dorothea , eagerly . 
Dorothea refrained from saying what was in her mind -- how well she knew that there might be invisible barriers to speech between husband and wife . 
She returned to the more outward aspect of Lydgate 's position , saying cheerfully -- `` And if Mrs Lydgate knew that there were friends who would believe in you and support you , she might then be glad that you should stay in your place and recover your hopes -- and do what you meant to do . 
Lydgate did not answer , and she saw that he was debating with himself . 
`` You need not decide immediately , '' she said , gently . 
`` It hurts me very much to hear you speak so hopelessly , '' said Dorothea . 
`` Now that is not brave , '' said Dorothea , -- `` to give up the fight . '' 
`` Mr Farebrother will believe -- others will believe , '' said Dorothea . 
Dorothea on her side had immediately formed a plan of relieving Lydgate from his obligation to Bulstrode , which she felt sure was a part , though small , of the galling pressure he had to bear . 
She sat down at once under the inspiration of their interview , and wrote a brief note , in which she pleaded that she had more claim than Mr Bulstrode had to the satisfaction of providing the money which had been serviceable to Lydgate -- that it would be unkind in Lydgate not to grant her the position of being his helper in this small matter , the favour being entirely to her who had so little that was plainly marked out for her to do with her superfluous money . 
He might call her a creditor or by any other name if it did but imply that he granted her request . 
She enclosed a cheque for a thousand pounds , and determined to take the letter with her the next day when she went to see Rosamond . 
Meanwhile Dorothea 's mind was filled with her project of going to Rosamond , and with the many thoughts , both of the past and the probable future , which gathered round the idea of that visit . 
From the time of that parting , Dorothea , believing in Will 's love for her , believing with a proud delight in his delicate sense of honour and his determination that no one should impeach him justly , felt her heart quite at rest as to the regard he might have for Mrs Lydgate . 
Dorothea 's nature was of that kind : her own passionate faults lay along the easily-counted open channels of her ardent character ; and while she was full of pity for the visible mistakes of others , she had not yet any material within her experience for subtle constructions and suspicions of hidden wrong . 
But that simplicity of hers , holding up an ideal for others in her believing conception of them , was one of the great powers of her womanhood . 
He felt , when he parted from her , that the brief words by which he had tried to convey to her his feeling about herself and the division which her fortune made between them , would only profit by their brevity when Dorothea had to interpret them : he felt that in her mind he had found his highest estimate . 
In the months since their parting Dorothea had felt a delicious though sad repose in their relation to each other , as one which was inwardly whole and without blemish . 
She had an active force of antagonism within her , when the antagonism turned on the defence either of plans or persons that she believed in ; and the wrongs which she felt that Will had received from her husband , and the external conditions which to others were grounds for slighting him , only gave the more tenacity to her affection and admiring judgment . 
And now with the disclosures about Bulstrode had come another fact affecting Will 's social position , which roused afresh Dorothea 's inward resistance to what was said about him in that part of her world which lay within park palings . 
Upright Sir James Chettam was convinced that his own satisfaction was righteous when he thought with some complacency that here was an added league to that mountainous distance between Ladislaw and Dorothea , which enabled him to dismiss any anxiety in that direction as too absurd . 
Dorothea had observed the animus with which Will 's part in the painful story had been recalled more than once ; but she had uttered no word , being checked now , as she had not been formerly in speaking of Will , by the consciousness of a deeper relation between them which must always remain in consecrated secrecy . 
But her silence shrouded her resistant emotion into a more thorough glow ; and this misfortune in Will 's lot which , it seemed , others were wishing to fling at his back as an opprobrium , only gave something more of enthusiasm to her clinging thought . 
She entertained no visions of their ever coming into nearer union , and yet she had taken no posture of renunciation . 
She had accepted her whole relation to Will very simply as part of her marriage sorrows , and would have thought it very sinful in her to keep up an inward wail because she was not completely happy , being rather disposed to dwell on the superfluities of her lot . 
She could bear that the chief pleasures of her tenderness should lie in memory , and the idea of marriage came to her solely as a repulsive proposition from some suitor of whom she at present knew nothing , but whose merits , as seen by her friends , would be a source of torment to her : -- `` somebody who will manage your property for you , my dear , '' was Mr Brooke 's attractive suggestion of suitable characteristics . 
`` I should like to manage it myself , if I knew what to do with it , '' said Dorothea . 
No -- she adhered to her declaration that she would never be married again , and in the long valley of her life , which looked so flat and empty of way-marks , guidance would come as she walked along the road , and saw her fellow-passengers by the way . 
This habitual state of feeling about Will Ladislaw had been strong in all her waking hours since she had proposed to pay a visit to Mrs Lydgate , making a sort of background against which she saw Rosamond 's figure presented to her without hindrances to her interest and compassion . 
But Dorothea thought with deep pity of the loneliness which must have come upon Rosamond from the suspicions cast on her husband ; and there would surely be help in the manifestation of respect for Lydgate and sympathy with her . 
`` I shall talk to her about her husband , '' thought Dorothea , as she was being driven towards the town . 
The clear spring morning , the scent of the moist earth , the fresh leaves just showing their creased-up wealth of greenery from out their half-opened sheaths , seemed part of the cheerfulness she was feeling from a long conversation with Mr Farebrother , who had joyfully accepted the justifying explanation of Lydgate 's conduct . 
Dorothea had another errand in Lowick Gate : it was about a new fine-toned bell for the school-house , and as she had to get out of her carriage very near to Lydgate 's , she walked thither across the street , having told the coachman to wait for some packages . 
The street door was open , and the servant was taking the opportunity of looking out at the carriage which was pausing within sight when it became apparent to her that the lady who `` belonged to it '' was coming towards her . 
said Dorothea . 
`` I 'm not sure , my lady ; I 'll see , if you 'll please to walk in , '' said Martha , a little confused on the score of her kitchen apron , but collected enough to be sure that `` mum '' was not the right title for this queenly young widow with a carriage and pair . 
`` Say that I am Mrs Casaubon , '' said Dorothea , as Martha moved forward intending to show her into the drawing-room and then to go up-stairs to see if Rosamond had returned from her walk . 
Dorothea had less of outward vision than usual this morning , being filled with images of things as they had been and were going to be . 
She found herself on the other side of the door without seeing anything remarkable , but immediately she heard a voice speaking in low tones which startled her as with a sense of dreaming in daylight , and advancing unconsciously a step or two beyond the projecting slab of a bookcase , she saw , in the terrible illumination of a certainty which filled up all outlines , something which made her pause motionless , without self-possession enough to speak . 
Seated with his back towards her on a sofa which stood against the wall on a line with the door by which she had entered , she saw Will Ladislaw : close by him and turned towards him with a flushed tearfulness which gave a new brilliancy to her face sat Rosamond , her bonnet hanging back , while Will leaning towards her clasped both her upraised hands in his and spoke with low-toned fervour . 
Rosamond in her agitated absorption had not noticed the silently advancing figure ; but when Dorothea , after the first immeasurable instant of this vision , moved confusedly backward and found herself impeded by some piece of furniture , Rosamond was suddenly aware of her presence , and with a spasmodic movement snatched away her hands and rose , looking at Dorothea who was necessarily arrested . 
Will Ladislaw , starting up , looked round also , and meeting Dorothea 's eyes with a new lightning in them , seemed changing to marble . 
But she immediately turned them away from him to Rosamond and said in a firm voice -- `` Excuse me , Mrs Lydgate , the servant did not know that you were here . 
Dorothea walked across the street with her most elastic step and was quickly in her carriage again . 
`` Drive on to Freshitt Hall , '' she said to the coachman , and any one looking at her might have thought that though she was paler than usual she was never animated by a more self-possessed energy . 
And that was really her experience . 
It was as if she had drunk a great draught of scorn that stimulated her beyond the susceptibility to other feelings . 
She had seen something so far below her belief , that her emotions rushed back from it and made an excited throng without an object . 
She needed something active to turn her excitement out upon . 
She felt power to walk and work for a day , without meat or drink . 
And she would carry out the purpose with which she had started in the morning , of going to Freshitt and Tipton to tell Sir James and her uncle all that she wished them to know about Lydgate , whose married loneliness under his trial now presented itself to her with new significance , and made her more ardent in readiness to be his champion . 
She had never felt anything like this triumphant power of indignation in the struggle of her married life , in which there had always been a quickly subduing pang ; and she took it as a sign of new strength . 
`` Oh , all the troubles of all people on the face of the earth , '' said Dorothea , lifting her arms to the back of her head . 
But Sir James came in again , ready to accompany Dorothea to the Grange , and she finished her expedition well , not swerving in her resolution until she descended at her own door . 
Rosamond and Will stood motionless -- they did not know how long -- he looking towards the spot where Dorothea had stood , and she looking towards him with doubt . 
He imagined that Dorothea had been to see her , and that all this effect on her nervous system , which evidently involved some new turning towards himself , was due to the excitement of the new impressions which that visit had raised . 
When Rosamond was quiet , and Lydgate had left her , hoping that she might soon sleep under the effect of an anodyne , he went into the drawing-room to fetch a book which he had left there , meaning to spend the evening in his work-room , and he saw on the table Dorothea 's letter addressed to him . 
He had not ventured to ask Rosamond if Mrs Casaubon had called , but the reading of this letter assured him of the fact , for Dorothea mentioned that it was to be carried by herself . 
He made no allusion to Rosamond 's feeling under their trouble , and of Dorothea he only said , `` Mrs Casaubon has been the one person to come forward and say that she had no belief in any of the suspicions against me . '' 
Observing a change in Will 's face , he avoided any further mention of her , feeling himself too ignorant of their relation to each other not to fear that his words might have some hidden painful bearing on it . 
And it occurred to him that Dorothea was the real cause of the present visit to Middlemarch . 
When Dorothea had seen Mr Farebrother in the morning , she had promised to go and dine at the parsonage on her return from Freshitt . 
There was a frequent interchange of visits between her and the Fare-brother family , which enabled her to say that she was not at all lonely at the Manor , and to resist for the present the severe prescription of a lady companion . 
The evening went by cheerfully till after tea , Dorothea talking more than usual and dilating with Mr Farebrother on the possible histories of creatures that converse compendiously with their antennæ , and for aught we know may hold reformed parliaments ; when suddenly some inarticulate little sounds were heard which called everybody 's attention . 
`` That is an affair of the heart with my aunt , '' said Mr Farebrother , smiling at Dorothea , as he reseated himself . 
Dorothea made an attempt at smiling in return . 
She was surprised and annoyed to find that her heart was palpitating violently , and that it was quite useless to try after a recovery of her former animation . 
Alarmed at herself -- fearing some further betrayal of a change so marked in its occasion , she rose and said in a low voice with undisguised anxiety , `` I must go ; I have overtired myself . '' 
He gave her his arm back to the Manor , but Dorothea did not attempt to speak , even when he said good-night . 
The limit of resistance was reached , and she had sunk back helpless within the clutch of inescapable anguish . 
Dismissing Tantripp with a few faint words , she locked her door , and turning away from it towards the vacant room she pressed her hands hard on the top of her head , and moaned out -- `` Oh , I did love him ! '' 
Then came the hour in which the waves of suffering shook her too thoroughly to leave any power of thought . 
She could only cry in loud whispers , between her sobs , after her lost belief which she had planted and kept alive from a very little seed since the days in Rome -- after her lost joy of clinging with silent love and faith to one who , misprized by others , was worthy in her thought -- after her lost woman 's pride of reigning in his memory -- after her sweet dim perspective of hope , that along some pathway they should meet with unchanged recognition and take up the backward years as a yesterday . 
In that hour she repeated what the merciful eyes of solitude have looked on for ages in the spiritual struggles of man -- she besought hardness and coldness and aching weariness to bring her relief from the mysterious incorporeal might of her anguish : she lay on the bare floor and let the night grow cold around her ; while her grand woman 's frame was shaken by sobs as if she had been a despairing child . 
There were two images -- two living forms that tore her heart in two , as if it had been the heart of a mother who seems to see her child divided by the sword , and presses one bleeding half to her breast while her gaze goes forth in agony towards the half which is carried away by the lying woman that has never known the mother 's pang . 
The fire of Dorothea 's anger was not easily spent , and it flamed out in fitful returns of spurning reproach . 
Why had he brought his cheap regard and his lip-born words to her who had nothing paltry to give in exchange ? 
He knew that he was deluding her -- wished , in the very moment of farewell , to make her believe that he gave her the whole price of her heart , and knew that he had spent it half before . 
Why had he not stayed among the crowd of whom she asked nothing -- but only prayed that they might be less contemptible ? 
But she lost energy at last even for her loud-whispered cries and moans : she subsided into helpless sobs , and on the cold floor she sobbed herself to sleep . 
In the chill hours of the morning twilight , when all was dim around her , she awoke -- not with any amazed wondering where she was or what had happened , but with the clearest consciousness that she was looking into the eyes of sorrow . 
She rose , and wrapped warm things around her , and seated herself in a great chair where she had often watched before . 
She was vigorous enough to have borne that hard night without feeling ill in body , beyond some aching and fatigue ; but she had waked to a new condition : she felt as if her soul had been liberated from its terrible conflict ; she was no longer wrestling with her grief , but could sit down with it as a lasting companion and make it a sharer in her thoughts . 
It was not in Dorothea 's nature , for longer than the duration of a paroxysm , to sit in the narrow cell of her calamity , in the besotted misery of a consciousness that only sees another 's lot as an accident of its own . 
She began now to live through that yesterday morning deliberately again , forcing herself to dwell on every detail and its possible meaning . 
Was she alone in that scene ? 
Was it her event only ? 
She forced herself to think of it as bound up with another woman 's life -- a woman towards whom she had set out with a longing to carry some clearness and comfort into her beclouded youth . 
But that base prompting which makes a woman more cruel to a rival than to a faithless lover , could have no strength of recurrence in Dorothea when the dominant spirit of justice within her had once overcome the tumult and had once shown her the truer measure of things . 
`` Why , madam , you 've never been in bed this blessed night , '' burst out Tantripp , looking first at the bed and then at Dorothea 's face , which in spite of bathing had the pale cheeks and pink eyelids of a mater dolorosa . 
`` Do n't be alarmed , Tantripp , '' said Dorothea , smiling . 
`` The fire will do , my good Tan , '' said Dorothea , speaking as she used to do in the old Lausanne days , only with a very low voice ; `` get me the coffee . '' 
She folded herself in the large chair , and leaned her head against it in fatigued quiescence , while Tantripp went away wondering at this strange contrariness in her young mistress -- that just the morning when she had more of a widow 's face than ever , she should have asked for her lighter mourning which she had waived before . 
Dorothea wished to acknowledge that she had not the less an active life before her because she had buried a private joy ; and the tradition that fresh garments belonged to all initiation , haunting her mind , made her grasp after even that slight outward help towards calm resolve . 
Nevertheless at eleven o'clock she was walking towards Middle-march , having made up her mind that she would make as quietly and unnoticeably as possible her second attempt to see and save Rosamond . 
When Dorothea was again at Lydgate 's door speaking to Martha , he was in the room close by with the door ajar , preparing to go out . 
He heard her voice , and immediately came to her . 
she said , having reflected that it would be better to leave out all allusion to her previous visit . 
`` I have no doubt she will , '' said Lydgate , suppressing his thought about Dorothea 's looks , which were as much changed as Rosamond 's , `` if you will be kind enough to come in and let me tell her that you are here . 
It was plain that Lydgate , as Dorothea had expected , knew nothing about the circumstances of her yesterday 's visit ; nay , he appeared to imagine that she had carried it out according to her intention . 
She had prepared a little note asking Rosamond to see her , which she would have given to the servant if he had not been in the way , but now she was in much anxiety as to the result of his announcement . 
Dorothea 's face brightened . 
she said , suddenly doubting . 
He had told her of Dorothea 's letter containing the cheque , and afterwards he had said , `` Ladislaw is come , Rosy ; he sat with me last night ; I daresay he will be here again to-day . 
The answer was a blank which Rosamond could only fill up with dread , for Will Ladislaw 's lacerating words had made every thought of Dorothea a fresh smart to her . 
Nevertheless , in her new humiliating uncertainty she dared do nothing but comply . 
She did not say yes , but she rose and let Lydgate put a light shawl over her shoulders , while he said , `` I am going out immediately . '' 
Then something crossed her mind which prompted her to say , `` Pray tell Martha not to bring any one else into the drawing-room . '' 
He led her down to the drawing-room door , and then turned away , observing to himself that he was rather a blundering husband to be dependent for his wife 's trust in him on the influence of another woman . 
Rosamond , wrapping her soft shawl around her as she walked towards Dorothea , was inwardly wrapping her soul in cold reserve . 
Will had bruised her pride too sorely for her to feel any compunction towards him and Dorothea : her own injury seemed much the greater . 
Dorothea was not only the `` preferred '' woman , but had also a formidable advantage in being Lydgate 's benefactor ; and to poor Rosamond 's pained confused vision it seemed that this Mrs Casaubon -- this woman who predominated in all things concerning her -- must have come now with the sense of having the advantage , and with animosity prompting her to use it . 
Indeed , not Rosamond only , but any one else , knowing the outer facts of the case , and not the simple inspiration on which Dorothea acted , might well have wondered why she came . 
Looking like the lovely ghost of herself , her graceful slimness wrapped in her soft white shawl , the rounded infantine mouth and cheek inevitably suggesting mildness and innocence , Rosamond paused at three yards ' distance from her visitor and bowed . 
But Dorothea , who had taken off her gloves , from an impulse which she could never resist when she wanted a sense of freedom , came forward , and with her face full of a sad yet sweet openness , put out her hand . 
Rosamond could not avoid meeting her glance , could not avoid putting her small hand into Dorothea 's , which clasped it with gentle motherliness ; and immediately a doubt of her own prepossessions began to stir within her . 
But Dorothea had counted a little too much on her own strength : the clearness and intensity of her mental action this morning were the continuance of a nervous exaltation which made her frame as dangerously responsive as a bit of finest Venetian crystal ; and in looking at Rosamond , she suddenly found her heart swelling , and was unable to speak -- all her effort was required to keep back tears . 
And Dorothea began to speak quite simply , gathering firmness as she went on . 
`` The day before yesterday , '' said Dorothea , `` when I had asked him to come to Lowick to give me his opinion on the affairs of the Hospital , he told me everything about his conduct and feelings in this sad event which has made ignorant people cast suspicions on him . 
Dorothea 's face had become animated , and as it beamed on Rosamond very close to her , she felt something like bashful timidity before a superior , in the presence of this self-forgetful ardour . 
Dorothea , completely swayed by the feeling that she was uttering , forgot everything but that she was speaking from out the heart of her own trial to Rosamond 's . 
The emotion had wrought itself more and more into her utterance , till the tones might have gone to one 's very marrow , like a low cry from some suffering creature in the darkness . 
And she had unconsciously laid her hand again on the little hand that she had pressed before . 
Poor Dorothea was feeling a great wave of her own sorrow returning over her -- her thought being drawn to the possible share that Will Ladislaw might have in Rosamond 's mental tumult . 
It was a newer crisis in Rosamond 's experience than even Dorothea could imagine : she was under the first great shock that had shattered her dream-world in which she had been easily confident of herself and critical of others ; and this strange unexpected manifestation of feeling in a woman whom she had approached with a shrinking aversion and dread , as one who must necessarily have a jealous hatred towards her , made her soul totter all the more with a sense that she had been walking in an unknown world which had just broken in upon her . 
When Rosamond 's convulsed throat was subsiding into calm , and she withdrew the handkerchief with which she had been hiding her face , her eyes met Dorothea 's as helplessly as if they had been blue flowers . 
And Dorothea looked almost as childish , with the neglected trace of a silent tear . 
`` We were talking about your husband , '' Dorothea said , with some timidity . 
`` Tertius is so angry and impatient if I say anything , '' said Rosamond , imagining that he had been complaining of her to Dorothea . 
`` It was himself he blamed for not speaking , '' said Dorothea . 
Dorothea waited a little ; she had discerned a faint pleasure stealing over Rosamond 's face . 
Even if we loved some one else better than -- than those we were married to , it would be no use '' -- poor Dorothea , in her palpitating anxiety , could only seize her language brokenly -- `` I mean , marriage drinks up all our power of giving or getting any blessedness in that sort of love . 
And then our husband -- if he loved and trusted us , and we have not helped him , but made a curse in his life ... '' Her voice had sunk very low : there was a dread upon her of presuming too far , and of speaking as if she herself were perfection addressing error . 
She was too much preoccupied with her own anxiety , to be aware that Rosamond was trembling too ; and filled with the need to express pitying fellowship rather than rebuke , she put her hands on Rosamond 's , and said with more agitated rapidity , -- `` I know , I know that the feeling may be very dear -- it has taken hold of us unawares -- it is so hard , it may seem like death to part with it -- and we are weak -- I am weak -- '' The waves of her own sorrow , from out of which she was struggling to save another , rushed over Dorothea with conquering force . 
She stopped in speechless agitation , not crying , but feeling as if she were being inwardly grappled . 
Her face had become of a deathlier paleness , her lips trembled , and she pressed her hands helplessly on the hands that lay under them . 
Rosamond , taken hold of by an emotion stronger than her own -- hurried along in a new movement which gave all things some new , awful , undefined aspect -- could find no words , but involuntarily she put her lips to Dorothea 's forehead which was very near her , and then for a minute the two women clasped each other as if they had been in a shipwreck . 
`` You are thinking what is not true , '' said Rosamond , in an eager half-whisper , while she was still feeling Dorothea 's arms round her -- urged by a mysterious necessity to free herself from something that oppressed her as if it were blood-guiltiness . 
There was a movement of surprised attention in Dorothea . 
She had begun her confession under the subduing influence of Dorothea 's emotion ; and as she went on she had gathered the sense that she was repelling Will 's reproaches , which were still like a knife-wound within her . 
The revulsion of feeling in Dorothea was too strong to be called joy . 
The worst loss would be to lose that -- and you have not lost it , '' said Dorothea . 
A smile began to play over Dorothea 's face as she said -- `` No , indeed ! 
I am strong : I need the walk , '' said Dorothea , rising with animation in her face . 
She put out her hand to Rosamond , and they said an earnest , quiet good-bye without kiss or other show of effusion : there had been between them too much serious emotion for them to use the signs of it superficially . 
As the months went on , it had seemed more and more difficult to him to say why he should not run down to Middlemarch -- merely for the sake of hearing something about Dorothea ; and if on such a flying visit he should chance by some strange coincidence to meet with her , there was no reason for him to be ashamed of having taken an innocent journey which he had beforehand supposed that he should not take . 
Since he was hopelessly divided from her , he might surely venture into her neighbourhood ; and as to the suspicious friends who kept a dragon watch over her -- their opinions seemed less and less important with time and change of air . 
And there had come a reason quite irrespective of Dorothea , which seemed to make a journey to Middlemarch a sort of philanthropic duty . 
He had neglected the Farebrothers before his departure , from a proud resistance to the possible accusation of indirectly seeking interviews with Dorothea ; but hunger tames us , and Will had become very hungry for the vision of a certain form and the sound of a certain voice . 
But there were strong cords pulling him back from that abrupt departure : the blight on his happiness in thinking of Dorothea , the crushing of that chief hope which had remained in spite of the acknowledged necessity for renunciation , was too fresh a misery for him to resign himself to it , and go straightway into a distance which was also despair . 
If Dorothea , after her night 's anguish , had not taken that walk to Rosamond -- why , she perhaps would have been a woman who gained a higher character for discretion , but it would certainly not have been as well for those three who were on one hearth in Lydgate 's house at half-past seven that evening . 
As Will dwelt on them with excited imagination , he felt his cheeks and ears burning at the thought of what had occurred between Dorothea and Rosamond -- at the uncertainty how far Dorothea might still feel her dignity wounded in having an explanation of his conduct offered to her . 
There might still remain in her mind a changed association with him which made an irremediable difference -- a lasting flaw . 
But now -- would Dorothea meet him in that world again ? 
On the second morning after Dorothea 's visit to Rosamond , she had had two nights of sound sleep , and had not only lost all traces of fatigue , but felt as if she had a great deal of superfluous strength -- that is to say , more strength than she could manage to concentrate on any occupation . 
But there were various subjects that Dorothea was trying to get clear upon , and she resolved to throw herself energetically into the gravest of all . 
She sat down in the library before her particular little heap of books on political economy and kindred matters , out of which she was trying to get light as to the best way of spending money so as not to injure one 's neighbours , or -- what comes to the same thing -- so as to do them the most good . 
Here was a weighty subject which , if she could but lay hold of it , would certainly keep her mind steady . 
Unhappily her mind slipped off it for a whole hour ; and at the end she found herself reading sentences twice over with an intense consciousness of many things , but not of any one thing contained in the text . 
Should she order the carriage and drive to Tipton ? 
No ; for some reason or other she preferred staying at Lowick . 
But her vagrant mind must be reduced to order : there was an art in self-discipline ; and she walked round and round the brown library considering by what sort of manoeuvre she could arrest her wandering thoughts . 
Perhaps a mere task was the best means -- something to which she must go doggedly . 
Was there not the geography of Asia Minor , in which her slackness had often been rebuked by Mr Casaubon ? 
She went to the cabinet of maps and unrolled one : this morning she might make herself finally sure that Paphlagonia was not on the Levantine coast , and fix her total darkness about the Chalybes firmly on the shores of the Euxine . 
Dorothea set earnestly to work , bending close to her map , and uttering the names in an audible , subdued tone , which often got into a chime . 
She looked amusingly girlish after all her deep experience -- nodding her head and marking the names off on her fingers , with a little pursing of her lip , and now and then breaking off to put her hands on each side of her face and say , `` Oh dear ! 
The little old lady , whose bonnet hardly reached Dorothea 's shoulder , was warmly welcomed , but while her hand was being pressed she made many of her beaver-like noises , as if she had something difficult to say . 
`` Do sit down , '' said Dorothea , rolling a chair forward . 
`` I will not stay , '' said Miss Noble , putting her hand into her small basket , and holding some article inside it nervously ; `` I have left a friend in the churchyard . '' 
She lapsed into her inarticulate sounds , and unconsciously drew forth the article which she was fingering . 
It was the tortoise-shell lozenge-box , and Dorothea felt the colour mounting to her cheeks . 
Dorothea did not answer on the instant : it was crossing her mind that she could not receive him in this library , where her husband 's prohibition seemed to dwell . 
She looked towards the window . 
Could she go out and meet him in the grounds ? 
Besides , she shrank from going out to him . 
`` Yes , I will see him , '' said Dorothea . 
There was nothing that she longed for at that moment except to see Will : the possibility of seeing him had thrust itself insistently between her and every other object ; and yet she had a throbbing excitement like an alarm upon her -- a sense that she was doing something daringly defiant for his sake . 
When the little lady had trotted away on her mission , Dorothea stood in the middle of the library with her hands falling clasped before her , making no attempt to compose herself in an attitude of dignified unconsciousness . 
What she was least conscious of just then was her own body : she was thinking of what was likely to be in Will 's mind , and of the hard feelings that others had had about him . 
How could any duty bind her to hardness ? 
Resistance to unjust dispraise had mingled with her feeling for him from the very first , and now in the rebound of her heart after her anguish the resistance was stronger than ever . 
`` If I love him too much it is because he has been used so ill : '' -- there was a voice within her saying this to some imagined audience in the library , when the door was opened , and she saw Will before her . 
She did not move , and he came towards her with more doubt and timidity in his face than she had ever seen before . 
He was in a state of uncertainty which made him afraid lest some look or word of his should condemn him to a new distance from her ; and Dorothea was afraid of her own emotion . 
She looked as if there were a spell upon her , keeping her motionless and hindering her from unclasping her hands , while some intense , grave yearning was imprisoned within her eyes . 
Seeing that she did not put out her hand as usual , Will paused a yard from her and said with embarrassment , `` I am so grateful to you for seeing me . '' 
`` I wanted to see you , '' said Dorothea , having no other words at command . 
It did not occur to her to sit down , and Will did not give a cheerful interpretation to this queenly way of receiving him ; but he went on to say what he had made up his mind to say . 
There was a slight movement in Dorothea , and she unclasped her hands , but immediately folded them over each other . 
Will looked doubtfully at Dorothea , but his manner was gathering some of the defiant courage with which he always thought of this fact in his destiny . 
`` Yes -- yes -- I know , '' said Dorothea , hastily . 
Why should he mind saying anything of that sort to her now ? 
She knew that he had avowed his love for her . 
`` You acted as I should have expected you to act , '' said Dorothea , her face brightening and her head becoming a little more erect on its beautiful stem . 
`` I did not believe that you would let any circumstance of my birth create a prejudice in you against me , though it was sure to do so in others , '' said Will , shaking his head backward in his old way , and looking with a grave appeal into her eyes . 
`` If it were a new hardship it would be a new reason for me to cling to you , '' said Dorothea , fervidly . 
`` Nothing could have changed me but -- '' her heart was swelling , and it was difficult to go on ; she made a great effort over herself to say in a low tremulous voice , `` but thinking that you were different -- not so good as I had believed you to be . '' 
`` I do n't doubt you any longer , '' said Dorothea , putting out her hand ; a vague fear for him impelling her unutterable affection . 
He took her hand and raised it to his lips with something like a sob . 
Still it was difficult to loose the hand , and Dorothea , withdrawing it in a confusion that distressed her , looked and moved away . 
`` See how dark the clouds have become , and how the trees are tossed , '' she said , walking towards the window , yet speaking and moving with only a dim sense of what she was doing . 
Will followed her at a little distance , and leaned against the tall back of a leather chair , on which he ventured now to lay his hat and gloves , and free himself from the intolerable durance of formality to which he had been for the first time condemned in Dorothea 's presence . 
He was not much afraid of anything that she might feel now . 
Dorothea began to say what she had been thinking of . 
`` But I have felt worse -- it was worse to think ill -- '' Dorothea had begun impetuously , but broke off . 
He had the sense that whatever she said was uttered in the vision of a fatality that kept them apart . 
Dorothea darted instantaneously from the window ; Will followed her , seizing her hand with a spasmodic movement ; and so they stood , with their hands clasped , like two children , looking out on the storm , while the thunder gave a tremendous crack and roll above them , and the rain began to pour down . 
Then they turned their faces towards each other , with the memory of his last words in them , and they did not loose each other 's hands . 
`` Do n't be sorry , '' said Dorothea , in her clear tender tones . 
Her lips trembled , and so did his . 
Dorothea sat down on the seat nearest to her , a long low ottoman in the middle of the room , and with her hands folded over each other on her lap , looked at the drear outer world . 
Will stood still an instant looking at her , then seated himself beside her , and laid his hand on hers , which turned itself upward to be clasped . 
But when the rain was quiet , Dorothea turned to look at Will . 
With passionate exclamation , as if some torture-screw were threatening him , he started up and said , `` It is impossible ! '' 
He went and leaned on the back of the chair again , and seemed to be battling with his own anger , while she looked towards him sadly . 
`` It is as fatal as a murder or any other horror that divides people , '' he burst out again ; `` it is more intolerable -- to have our life maimed by petty accidents . '' 
`` No -- do n't say that -- your life need not be maimed , '' said Dorothea , gently . 
`` Some time -- we might , '' said Dorothea , in a trembling voice . 
Dorothea 's heart was full of something that she wanted to say , and yet the words were too difficult . 
She was wholly possessed by them : at that moment debate was mute within her . 
And it was very hard that she could not say what she wanted to say . 
If he would have looked at her and not gone away from her side , she thought everything would have been easier . 
`` Oh , I can not bear it -- my heart will break , '' said Dorothea , starting from her seat , the flood of her young passion bearing down all the obstructions which had kept her silent -- the great tears rising and falling in an instant : `` I do n't mind about poverty -- I hate my wealth . '' 
In an instant Will was close to her and had his arms round her , but she drew her head back and held his away gently that she might go on speaking , her large tear-filled eyes looking at his very simply , while she said in a sobbing childlike way , `` We could live quite well on my own fortune -- it is too much -- seven hundred a-year -- I want so little -- no new clothes -- and I will learn what everything costs . '' 
`` Dorothea is going to be married again , you know , '' said Mr Brooke , nodding towards Celia , who immediately looked up at her husband with a frightened glance , and put her hand on his knee . 
Dorothea sent for me , you know . 
But Dorothea is quite determined -- it is no use opposing . 
I put it strongly to her . 
But she can act as she likes , you know . '' 
We are indebted to that for seeing a woman like Dorothea degrading herself by marrying him . '' 
`` A man so marked out by her husband 's will , that delicacy ought to have forbidden her from seeing him again -- who takes her out of her proper rank -- into poverty -- has the meanness to accept such a sacrifice -- has always had an objectionable position -- a bad origin -- and , I believe , is a man of little principle and light character . 
`` I pointed everything out to her , '' said Mr Brooke , apologetically -- `` I mean the poverty , and abandoning her position . 
I put it strongly to her . 
But I advise you to talk to Dorothea herself . 
The fact is , she has a dislike to Casaubon 's property . 
You will hear what she says , you know . '' 
`` I can not bear to see her again ; it is too painful . 
It hurts me too much that a woman like Dorothea should have done what is wrong . '' 
`` I think that Dorothea commits a wrong action in marrying Ladislaw . '' 
`` She said she never would marry again -- not anybody at all . '' 
`` I heard her say the same thing myself , '' said Lady Chettam , majestically , as if this were royal evidence . 
If you would have had Lord Triton down here to woo her with his philanthropy , he might have carried her off before the year was over . 
He made himself disagreeable -- or it pleased God to make him so -- and then he dared her to contradict him . 
`` Well , you know , Chettam , '' said Mr Brooke , good-humouredly , nursing his leg , `` I ca n't turn my back on Dorothea . 
I must be a father to her up to a certain point . 
The mass of his feeling about Dorothea 's marriage to Ladislaw was due partly to excusable prejudice , or even justifiable opinion , partly to a jealous repugnance hardly less in Ladislaw 's case than in Casaubon 's . 
He was convinced that the marriage was a fatal one for Dorothea . 
`` Dorothea would not come , you know , unless you had been to see her . '' 
Celia thought it was of great use , if not to say that , at least to take a journey to Lowick in order to influence Dorothea 's mind . 
All through their girhood she had felt that she could act on her sister by a word judiciously placed -- by opening a little window for the daylight of her own understanding to enter among the strange coloured lamps by which Dodo habitually saw . 
Dorothea , busy in her boudoir , felt a glow of pleasure at the sight of her sister so soon after the revelation of her intended marriage . 
She had prefigured to herself , even with exaggeration , the disgust of her friends , and she had even feared that Celia might be kept aloof from her . 
said Dorothea , putting her hands on Celia 's shoulders , and beaming on her . 
`` On the contrary , dear , '' said Dorothea , `` I never could do anything that I liked . 
Dorothea laughed . 
`` Dear Celia , '' said Dorothea , with tender gravity , `` if you do n't ever see me , it will not be my fault . '' 
`` I am going to London , '' said Dorothea . 
`` Bless you , Kitty , '' said Dorothea , with gentle warmth . 
`` It is quite true that I might be a wiser person , Celia , '' said Dorothea , `` and that I might have done something better , if I had been better . 
The tone in which Dorothea said this was a note that Celia had long learned to recognise . 
Dorothea smiled , and Celia looked rather meditative . 
`` I daresay not , '' said Dorothea , pinching her sister 's chin . 
When immortal Bunyan makes his picture of the persecuting passions bringing in their verdict of guilty , who pities Faithful ? 
But it would be unjust not to tell , that she never uttered a word in depreciation of Dorothea , keeping in religious remembrance the generosity which had come to her aid in the sharpest crisis of her life . 
Dorothea herself had no dreams of being praised above other women , feeling that there was always something better which she might have done , if she had only been better and known better . 
Still , she never repented that she had given up position and fortune to marry Will Ladislaw , and he would have held it the greatest shame as well as sorrow to him if she had repented . 
No life would have been possible to Dorothea which was not filled with emotion , and she had now a life filled also with a beneficent activity which she had not the doubtful pains of discovering and marking out for herself . 
Dorothea could have liked nothing better , since wrongs existed , than that her husband should be in the thick of a struggle against them , and that she should give him wifely help . 
Many who knew her , thought it a pity that so substantive and rare a creature should have been absorbed into the life of another , and be only known in a certain circle as a wife and mother . 
Mr Brooke could not resist the pleasure of corresponding with Will and Dorothea ; and one morning when his pen had been remarkably fluent on the prospects of Municipal Reform , it ran off into an invitation to the Grange , which , once written , could not be done away with at less cost than the sacrifice -LRB- hardly to be conceived -RRB- of the whole valuable letter . 
`` Dorothea has a little boy . 
And you will not let me go and see her . 
And I am sure she wants to see me . 
And she will not know what to do with the baby -- she will do wrong things with it . 
And they thought she would die . 
Such being the bent of Celia 's heart , it was inevitable that Sir James should consent to a reconciliation with Dorothea and her husband . 
Sir James never liked Ladislaw , and Will always preferred to have Sir James 's company mixed with another kind : they were on a footing of reciprocal tolerance which was made quite easy only when Dorothea and Celia were present . 
Mr Brooke lived to a good old age , and his estate was inherited by Dorothea 's son , who might have represented Middlemarch , but declined , thinking that his opinions had less chance of being stifled if he remained out of doors . 
Sir James never ceased to regard Dorothea 's second marriage as a mistake ; and indeed this remained the tradition concerning it in Middlemarch , where she was spoken of to a younger generation as a fine girl who married a sickly clergyman , old enough to be her father , and in little more than a year after his death gave up her estate to marry his cousin -- young enough to have been his son , with no property , and not well-born . 
Those who had not seen anything of Dorothea usually observed that she could not have been `` a nice woman , '' else she would not have married either the one or the other . 
Certainly those determining acts of her life were not ideally beautiful . 
But we insignificant people with cur daily words and acts are preparing the lives of many Dorotheas , some of which may present a far sadder sacrifice than that of the Dorothea whose story we know . 
Her finely-touched spirit had still its fine issues , though they were not widely visible . 
Her full nature , like that river of which Cyrus broke the strength , spent itself in channels which had no great name on the earth . 
But the effect of her being on those around her was incalculably diffusive : for the growing good of the world is partly dependent on unhistoric acts ; and that things are not so ill with you and me as they might have been , is half owing to the number who lived faithfully a hidden life , and rest in unvisited tombs . 
