said Margaret , gently , `` Edith ! '' 
But , as Margaret half suspected , Edith had fallen asleep . 
Margaret was struck afresh by her cousin 's beauty . 
They had grown up together from childhood , and all along Edith had been remarked upon by every one , except Margaret , for her prettiness ; but Margaret had never thought about it until the last few days , when the prospect of soon losing her companion seemed to give force to every sweet quality and charm which Edith possessed . 
They had been talking about wedding dresses , and wedding ceremonies ; and Captain Lennox , and what he had told Edith about her future life at Corfu , where his regiment was stationed ; and the difficulty of keeping a piano in good tune -LRB- a difficulty which Edith seemed to consider as one of the most formidable that could befall her in her married life -RRB- , and what gowns she should want in the visits to Scotland , which would immediately succeed her marriage ; but the whispered tone had latterly become more drowsy ; and Margaret , after a pause of a few minutes , found , as she fancied , that in spite of the buzz in the next room , Edith had rolled herself up into a soft ball of muslin and ribbon , and silken curls , and gone off into a peaceful little after-dinner nap . 
Margaret had been on the point of telling her cousin of some of the plans and visions which she entertained as to her future life in the country parsonage , where her father and mother lived ; and where her bright holidays had always been passed , though for the last ten years her aunt Shaw 's house had been considered as her home . 
But in default of a listener , she had to brood over the change in her life silently as heretofore . 
It was a happy brooding , although tinged with regret at being separated for an indefinite time from her gentle aunt and dear cousin . 
As she thought of the delight of filling the important post of only daughter in Helstone parsonage , pieces of the conversation out of the next room came upon her ears . 
Her aunt Shaw was talking to the five or six ladies who had been dining there , and whose husbands were still in the dining-room . 
It was very well they did -- to judge from the fragments of conversation which Margaret overheard . 
I had quite a prophetic feeling when Captain Lennox '' -- and here the voice dropped into a whisper , but Margaret could easily supply the blank . 
The very parts which made Margaret glow as she listened , Edith pretended to shiver and shudder at ; partly for the pleasure she had in being coaxed out of her dislike by her fond lover , and partly because anything of a gipsy or make-shift life was really distasteful to her . 
`` I have spared no expense in her trousseau , '' were the next words Margaret heard . 
`` She is a lucky girl , '' replied another voice , which Margaret knew to be that of Mrs. Gibson , a lady who was taking a double interest in the conversation , from the fact of one of her daughters having been married within the last few weeks . 
Margaret heard her aunt 's voice again , but this time it was as if she had raised herself up from her half-recumbent position , and were looking into the more dimly lighted back drawing-room . 
cried she ; and then she sank as if wearied by the exertion . 
Margaret stepped forward . 
It was only to ask Edith if she would tell Newton to bring down her shawls : perhaps you would go , Margaret dear ? '' 
Margaret went up into the old nursery at the very top of the house , where Newton was busy getting up some laces which were required for the wedding . 
While Newton went -LRB- not without a muttered grumbling -RRB- to undo the shawls , which had already been exhibited four or five times that day , Margaret looked round upon the nursery ; the first room in that house with which she had become familiar nine years ago , when she was brought , all untamed from the forest , to share the home , the play , and the lessons of her cousin Edith . 
At home -- before she came to live in Harley Street -- her mother 's dressing-room had been her nursery ; and , as they kept early hours in the country parsonage , Margaret had always had her meals with her father and mother . 
Then the little Margaret had hushed her sobs , and tried to lie quiet as if asleep , for fear of making her father unhappy by her grief , which she dared not express before her aunt , and which she rather thought it was wrong to feel at all after the long hoping , and planning , and contriving they had gone through at home , before her wardrobe could be arranged so as to suit her grander circumstances , and before papa could leave his parish to come up to London , even for a few days . 
Now she had got to love the old nursery , though it was but a dismantled place ; and she looked all round , with a kind of cat-like regret , at the idea of leaving it for ever in three days . 
said she , `` I think we shall all be sorry to leave this dear old room . '' 
So Margaret went down laden with shawls , and snuffing up their spicy Eastern smell . 
Her aunt asked her to stand as a sort of lay figure on which to display them , as Edith was still asleep . 
No one thought about it ; but Margaret 's tall , finely made figure , in the black silk dress which she was wearing as mourning for some distant relative of her father 's , set off the long beautiful folds of the gorgeous shawls that would have half-smothered Edith . 
Margaret stood right under the chandelier , quite silent and passive , while her aunt adjusted the draperies . 
Occasionally , as she was turned round , she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror over the chimney-piece , and smiled at her own appearance there -- the familiar features in the usual garb of a princess . 
Mrs. Shaw held out her hand to the new-comer ; Margaret stood perfectly still , thinking she might be yet wanted as a sort of block for the shawls ; but looking at Mr. Lennox with a bright , amused face , as if sure of his sympathy in her sense of the ludicrousness at being thus surprised . 
Her aunt was so much absorbed in asking Mr. Henry Lennox -- who had not been able to come to dinner -- all sorts of questions about his brother the bridegroom , his sister the bridesmaid -LRB- coming with the Captain from Scotland for the occasion -RRB- , and various other members of the Lennox family , that Margaret saw she was no more wanted as shawl-bearer , and devoted herself to the amusement of the other visitors , whom her aunt had for the moment forgotten . 
Even in her slumber she had instinctively felt that a Lennox was worth rousing herself for ; and she had a multitude of questions to ask about dear Janet , the future , unseen sister-in-law , for whom she professed so much affection , that if Margaret had not been very proud she might have almost felt jealous of the mushroom rival . 
As Margaret sank rather more into the background on her aunt 's joining the conversation , she saw Henry Lennox directing his look towards a vacant seat near her ; and she knew perfectly well that as soon as Edith released him from her questioning , he would take possession of that chair . 
Margaret 's face was lightened up into an honest , open brightness . 
She received him with a smile which had not a tinge of shyness or self-consciousness in it . 
`` Yes , '' said Margaret , rather sadly , remembering the never-ending commotion about trifles that had been going on for more than a month past : `` I wonder if a marriage must always be preceded by what you call a whirlwind , or whether in some cases there might not rather be a calm and peaceful time just before it . '' 
asked Margaret , looking up straight at him for an answer . 
Margaret did not quite like this speech ; she winced away from it more , from remembering former , occasions on which he had tried to lead her into a discussion -LRB- in which he took the complimentary part -RRB- about her own character and ways of going on . 
She cut his speech rather short by saying : `` It is natural for me to think of Helstone church , and the walk to it , rather than of driving up to a London church in the middle of a paved street . '' 
`` No , '' replied Margaret , somewhat annoyed , `` I am not making a picture . 
`` And so it is , '' replied Margaret , eagerly . 
You are rather severe to-night , Margaret . '' 
said she , turning her large soft eyes round full upon him . 
said she , laughing . 
She threw down her music , and rushed out of the room , leaving Margaret standing confused and blushing to explain to the astonished guests what vision had shown itself to cause Edith 's sudden flight . 
He was close by his handsome brother ; he was the plain one in a singularly good-looking family ; but his face was intelligent , keen , and mobile ; and now and then Margaret wondered what it was that he could be thinking about , while he kept silence , but was evidently observing , with an interest that was slightly sarcastic , all that Edith and she were doing . 
Margaret 's quickly adjusted spirit-lamp was the most efficacious contrivance , though not so like the gypsy-encampment which Edith , in some of her moods , chose to consider the nearest resemblance to a barrack-life . 
Margaret was once more in her morning dress , travelling quietly home with her father , who had come up to assist at the wedding . 
Her mother had been detained at home by a multitude of half-reasons , none of which anybody fully understood , except Mr. Hale , who was perfectly aware that all his arguments in favour of a grey satin gown , which was midway between oldness and newness , had proved unavailing ; and that , as he had not the money to equip his wife afresh , from top to toe , she would not show herself at her only sister 's only child 's wedding . 
Margaret only knew that her mother had not found it convenient to come , and she was not sorry to think that their meeting and greeting would take place at Helstone parsonage , rather than , during the confusion of the last two or three days , in the house in Harley Street , where she herself had had to play the part of Figaro , and was wanted everywhere at one and the same time . 
Her mind and body ached now with the recollection of all she had done and said within the last forty-eight hours . 
The farewells so hurriedly taken , amongst all the other good-byes , of those she had lived with so long , oppressed her now with a sad regret for the times that were no more ; it did not signify what those times had been , they were gone never to return . 
Margaret 's heart felt more heavy than she could ever have thought it possible in going to her own dear home , the place and the life she had longed for for years -- at that time of all times for yearning and longing , just before the sharp senses lose their outlines in sleep . 
She took her mind away with a wrench from the recollection of the past to the bright serene contemplation of the hopeful future . 
Her eyes began to see , not visions of what had been , but the sight actually before her ; her dear father leaning back asleep in the railway carriage . 
Margaret was painfully struck by the worn , anxious expression ; and she went back over the open and avowed circumstances of her father 's life , to find the cause for the lines that spoke so plainly of habitual distress and depression . 
thought she , sighing . 
She was ready with a bright smile , in which there was not a trace of fatigue , to greet her father when he awakened . 
Margaret was more like him than like her mother . 
Her mouth was wide ; no rosebud that could only open just enough to let out a `` yes '' and `` no , '' and `` a n't please you , sir . '' 
If the look on her face was , in general , too dignified and reserved for one so young , now , talking to her father , it was bright as the morning , -- full of dimples , and glances that spoke of childish gladness , and boundless hope in the future . 
It was the latter part of July when Margaret returned home . 
Margaret used to tramp along by her father 's side , crushing down the fern with a crnel glee , as she felt it yield under her light foot , and send up the fragrance peculiar to it , -- out on the broad commons into the warm scented light , seeing multitudes of wild , free , living creatures , revelling in the sunshine , and the herbs and flowers it called forth . 
This life -- at least these walks -- realised all Margaret 's anticipations . 
She took a pride in her forest . 
Its people were her people . 
She made hearty friends with them ; learned and delighted in using their peculiar words ; took up her freedom amongst them ; nursed their babies ; talked or read with slow distinctness to their old people ; carried dainty messes to their sick ; resolved before long to teach at the school , where her father went every day as to an appointed task , but she was continually tempted off to go and see some indiviual friend -- man , woman , or child -- in some cottage in the green shade of the forest . 
At each repeated urgency of his wife , that he would put himself in the way of seeking some preferment , Margaret saw that her father shrank more and more ; and she strove at such times to reconcile her mother to Helstone . 
Mrs. Hale said that the near neighbourhood of so many trees affected her health ; and Margaret would try to tempt her forth on to the beautiful , broad , upland , sun-streaked , cloud-shadowed common ; for she was sure that her mother had accustomed herself too much to an in-doors life , seldom extending her walks beyond the church , the school , and the neighbouring cottages . 
This did good for a time ; but when the autumn drew on , and the weather became more changeable , her mother 's idea of the unhealthiness of the place increased ; and she repined even more frequently that her husband , who was more learned than Mr. Hume , a better parish priest than Mr. Houldsworth , should not have met with the preferment that these two former neighbours of theirs had done . 
This marring of the peace of home , by long hours of discontent , was what Margaret was unprepared for . 
She knew , and had rather revelled in the idea , that she should have to give up many luxuries , which had only been troubles and trammels to her freedom in Harley Street . 
Her keen enjoyment of every sensuous pleasure , was balanced finely , if not overbalanced , by her conscious pride in being able to do without them all , if need were . 
There had been slight complaints and passing regrets on her mother 's part , over some trifle connected with Helstone , and her father 's position there , when Margaret had been spending her holidays at home before ; but in the general happiness of the recollection of those times , she had forgotten the small details which were not so pleasant . 
In the latter half of September , the autumnal rains and storms came on , and Margaret was obliged to remain more in the house than she had hitherto done . 
`` Gormans , '' said Margaret . 
`` You must not be so fastidious , Margaret , dear ! '' 
said her mother , secretly thinking of a young and handsome Mr. Gorman whom she had once met at Mr. Hume 's . 
And walk Margaret did , in spite of the weather . 
She was so happy out of doors , at her father 's side , that she almost danced ; and with the soft violence of the west wind behind her , as she crossed some heath , she seemed to be borne onwards , as lightly and easily as the fallen leaf that was wafted along by the autumnal breeze . 
Immediately after tea her father withdrew into his small library , and she and her mother were left alone . 
When Margaret had been here before , she had brought down with her a great box of books , recommended by masters or governess , and had found the summer 's day all too short to get through the reading she had to do before her return to town . 
Now there were only the well-bound little-read English Classics , which were weeded out of her father 's library to fill up the small book-shelves in the drawing-room . 
Margaret told her mother every particular of her London life , to all of which Mrs. Hale listened with interest , sometimes amused and questioning , at others a little inclined to compare her sister 's circumstances of ease and comfort with the narrower means at Helstone vicarage . 
On such evenings Margaret was apt to stop talking rather abruptly , and listen to the drip-drip of the rain upon the leads of the little bow-window . 
Once or twice Margaret found herself mechanically counting the repetition of the monotonous sound , while she wondered if she might venture to put a question on a subject very near to her heart , and ask where Frederick was now ; what he was doing ; how long it was since they had heard from him . 
But a consciousness that her mother 's delicate health , and positive dislike to Helstone , all dated from the time of the mutiny in which Frederick had been engaged , -- the full account of which Margaret had never heard , and which now seemed doomed to be buried in sad oblivion , -- made her pause and turn away from the subject each time she approached it . 
When she was with her mother , her father seemed the best person to apply to for information ; and when with him , she thought that she could speak more easily to her mother . 
In one of the letters she had received before leaving Harley Street , her father had told her that they had heard from Frederick ; he was still at Rio , and very well in health , and sent his best love to her ; which was dry bones , but not the living intelligence she longed for . 
Margaret could not help believing that there had been some late intelligence of Frederick , unknown to her mother , which was making her father anxious and uneasy . 
But now Margaret noticed an absence of mind , as if his thoughts were pre-occupied by some subject , the oppression of which could not be relieved by any daily action , such as comforting the survivors , or teaching at the school in hope of lessening the evils in the generation to come . 
But Margaret was at an age when any apprehension , not absolutely based on a knowledge of facts , is easily banished for a time by a bright sunny day , or some happy outward circumstance . 
And when the brilliant fourteen fine days of October came on , her cares were all blown away as lightly as thistledown , and she thought of nothing but the glories of the forest . 
The fern-harvest was over ; and now that the rain was gone , many a deep glade was accessible , into which Margaret had only peeped in July and August weather . 
She had learnt drawing with Edith ; and she had sufficiently regretted , during the gloom of the bad weather , her idle revelling in the beauty of the woodlands while it had yet been fine , to make her determined to sketch what she could before winter fairly set in . 
Accordingly , she was busy preparing her board one morning , when Sarah , the housemaid , threw wide open the drawingroom door , and announced , `` Mr. Henry Lennox . '' 
Margaret had been thinking of him only a moment before , and remembering his inquiry into her probable occupations at home . 
It was `` parler du soleil et l'on en voit les rayons ; '' and the brightness of the sun came over Margaret 's face as she put down her board , and went forward to shake hands with him . 
`` Tell mamma , Sarah , '' said she . 
asked he , in a lower tone than that in which she had spoken . 
said he , more lightly , `` our young couple were playing such foolish pranks , running all sorts of risks , climbing this mountain , sailing on that lake , that I really thought they needed a Mentor to take care of them . 
thank you , '' exclaimed Margaret ; and then , half wishing to read it alone and unwatched , she made the excuse of going to tell her mother again -LRB- Sarah surely had made some mistake -RRB- that Mr. Lennox was there . 
The carpet was far from new ; the chintz had been often washed ; the whole apartment was smaller and shabbier than he had expected , as back-ground and frame-work for Margaret , herself so queenly . 
He took up one of the books lying on the table ; it was the Paradiso of Dante , in the proper old Italian binding of white vellum and gold ; by it lay a dictionary , and some words copied out in Margaret 's hand-writing . 
Margaret meanwhile had found her mother . 
It was one of Mrs. Hale 's fitful days , when everything was a difficulty and a hardship ; and Mr. Lennox 's appearance took this shape , although secretly she felt complimented by his thinking it worth while to call . 
Margaret had felt as if a thick cloud had come between her and the sun . 
She had listened patiently , in hopes that it might be some relief to her mother to unburden herself ; but now it was time to draw her back to Mr. Lennox . 
He was pleased with everything ; delighted with Margaret 's idea of going out sketching together ; would not have Mr. Hale disturbed for the world , with the prospect of so soon meeting him at dinner . 
Margaret brought out her drawing materials for him to choose from ; and after the paper and brushes had been duly selected , the two set out in the merriest spirits in the world . 
`` Now , please , just stop here for a minute or two , '' said Margaret . 
His stiff features relaxed into a slow smile as Margaret went up and spoke to him . 
Mr. Lennox hastily introduced the two figures into his sketch , and finished up the landscape with a subordinate reference to them -- as Margaret perceived , when the time came for getting up , putting away water , and scraps of paper , and exhibiting to each other their sketches . 
She laughed and blushed : Mr. Lennox watched her countenance . 
`` Now , I call that treacherous , '' said she . 
He was not quite sure whether she heard this latter sentence before she went to the brook to wash her palette . 
She came back rather flushed , but looking perfectly innocent and unconscious . 
The clouds on her mother 's brow had cleared off under the propitious influence of a brace of carp , most opportunely presented by a neighbour . 
Margaret was proud of her father ; she had always a fresh and tender pride in seeing how favourably he impressed every stranger ; still her quick eye sought over his face and found there traces of some unusual disturbance , which was only put aside , not cleared away . 
as he returned Margaret 's to her , and held out his hand for Mr. Lennox 's , which was withheld from him one moment , no more . 
said she , peeping over his shoulder , as he looked at the figures in Mr. Lennox 's drawing . 
Mr. Hale had preceded them into the house , while Margaret was lingering to pluck some roses , with which to adorn her morning gown for dinner . 
But I do n't believe Margaret , -- Stay ! '' 
exclaimed he , `` Let me help you ; '' and he gathered for her some velvety cramoisy roses that were above her reach , and then dividing the spoil he placed two in his button-hole , and sent her in , pleased and happy , to arrange her flowers . 
There were plenty of questions to be asked on both sides -- the latest intelligence which each could give of Mrs. Shaw 's movements in Italy to be exchanged ; and in the interest of what was said , the unpretending simplicity of the parsonage-ways -- above all , in the neighbourhood of Margaret , Mr. Lennox forgot the little feeling of disappointment with which he had at first perceived that she had spoken but the simple truth when she had described her father 's living as very small . 
`` Margaret , my child , you might have gathered us some pears for our dessert , '' said Mr. Hale , as the hospitable luxury of a freshly-decanted bottle of wine was placed on the table . 
Run , Margaret , and gather us some . '' 
He rose , as if to follow Margaret , who had disappeared through the window : he only awaited Mrs. Hale 's permission . 
Margaret made a plate for the pears out of a beetroot leaf , which threw up their brown gold colour admirably . 
Mr. Lennox looked more at her than at the pears ; but her father , inclined to cull fastidiously the very zest and perfection of the hour he had stolen from his anxiety , chose daintily the ripest fruit , and sat down on the garden bench to enjoy it at his leisure . 
Margaret and Mr. Lennox strolled along the little terrace walk under the south wall , where the bees still hummed and worked busily in their hives . 
`` Scorned , Margaret ! 
`` I could almost wish , Margaret -- '' he stopped and hesitated . 
It was so unusual for the fluent lawyer to hesitate that Margaret looked up at him , in a little state of questioning wonder ; but in an instant -- from what about him she could not tell -- she wished herself back with her mother -- her father -- anywhere away from him , for she was sure he was going to say something to which she should not know what to reply . 
In another moment the strong pride that was in her came to conquer her sudden agitation , which she hoped he had not perceived . 
Of course she could answer , and answer the right thing ; and it was poor and despicable of her to shrink from hearing any speech , as if she had not power to put an end to it with her high maidenly dignity . 
`` Margaret , '' said he , taking her by surprise , and getting sudden possession of her hand , so that she was forced to stand still and listen , despising herself for the fluttering at her heart all the time ; `` Margaret , I wish you did not like Helstone so much -- did not seem so perfectly calm and happy here . 
I have been hoping for these three months past to find you regretting London -- and London friends , a little -- enough to make you listen more kindly '' -LRB- for she was quietly , but firmly , striving to extricate her hand from his grasp -RRB- `` to one who has not much to offer , it is true -- nothing but prospects in the future -- but who does love you , Margaret , almost in spite of himself . 
Margaret , have I startled you too much ? 
For he saw her lips quivering almost as if she were going to cry . 
She made a strong effort to be calm ; she would not speak till she had succeeded in mastering her voice , and then she said : `` I was startled . 
`` Margaret , '' said he , looking into her eyes , which met his with their open straight look , expressive of the utmost good faith and reluctance to give pain , `` Do you '' -- he was going to say -- `` love any one else ? '' 
Margaret reproached herself acutely as the cause of his distress . 
`` But I may hope , may I not , Margaret , that some time you will think of me as a lover ? 
Not yet , I see -- there is no hurry -- but some time -- '' She was silent for a minute or two , trying to discover the truth as it was in her own heart , before replying ; then she said : `` I have never thought of -- you , but as a friend . 
Pray , let us both forget that all this '' -LRB- `` disagreeable , '' she was going to say , but stopped short -RRB- `` conversation has taken place . '' 
`` You are vexed , '' said she sadly ; `` yet how can I help it ? '' 
She looked so truly grieved as she said this , that he struggled for a moment with his real disappointment , and then answered more cheerfully , but still with a little hardness in his tone : `` You should make allowances for the mortification , not only of a lover , Margaret , but of a man not given to romance in general -- prudent , worldly , as some people call me -- who has been carried out of his usual habits by the force of a passion -- well , we will say no more of that ; but in the one outlet which he has formed for the deeper and better feelings of his nature , he meets with rejection and repulse . 
Margaret could not answer this . 
The whole tone of it annoyed her . 
It seemed to touch on and call out all the points of difference which had often repelled her in him ; while yet he was the pleasantest man , the most sympathising friend , the person of all others who understood her best in Harley Street . 
She felt a tinge of contempt mingle itself with her pain at having refused him . 
Her beautiful lip curled in a slight disdain . 
Margaret felt stunned , and unable to recover her self-possession enough to join in the trivial conversation that ensued between her father and Mr. Lennox . 
She was grave , and little disposed to speak ; full of wonder when Mr. Lennox would go , and allow her to relax into thought on the events of the last quarter of an hour . 
He was almost as anxious to take his departure as she was for him to leave ; but a few minutes light and careless talking , carried on at whatever effort , was a sacrifice which he owed to his mortified vanity , or his self-respect . 
He glanced from time to time at her sad and pensive face . 
`` Margaret , do n't despise me ; I have a heart , notwithstanding all this good-for-nothing way of talking . 
Good-bye , Margaret -- Margaret ! '' 
Margaret went up to dress for the early tea , finding Dixon in a pretty temper from the interruption which a visitor had naturally occasioned on a busy day . 
She showed it by brushing , away viciously at Margaret 's hair , under pretence of being in a great hurry to go to Mrs. Hale . 
Yet , after all , Margaret had to wait a long time in the drawing-room before her mother came down . 
She sat by herself at the fire , with unlighted candles on the table behind her , thinking over the day , the happy walk , happy sketching , cheerful pleasant dinner , and the uncomfortable , miserable walk in the garden . 
Here was she disturbed and unhappy , because her instinct had made anything but a refusal impossible ; while he , not many minutes after he had met with a rejection of what ought to have been the deepest , holiest proposal of his life , could speak as if briefs , success , and all its superficial consequences of a good house , clever and agreeable society , were the sole avowed objects of his desires . 
how she could have loved him if he had but been different , with a difference which she felt , on reflection , to be one that went low -- deep down . 
Then she took it into her head that , after all , his lightness might be but assumed , to cover a bitterness of disappointment which would have been stamped on her own heart if she had loved and been rejected . 
Her mother came into the room before this whirl of thoughts was adjusted into anything like order . 
Margaret had to shake off the recollections of what had been done and said through the day , and turn a sympathising listener to the account of how Dixon had complained that the ironing-blanket had been burnt again ; and how Susan Lightfoot had been seen with artificial flowers in her bonnet , thereby giving evidence of a vain and giddy character . 
Mr. Hale sipped his tea in abstracted silence ; Margaret had the responses all to herself . 
She wondered how her father and mother could be so forgetful , so regardless of their companion through the day , as never to mention his name . 
She forgot that he had not made them an offer . 
Margaret was preparing her mother 's worsted work , and rather shrinking from the thought of the long evening , and wishing bed-time were come that she might go over the events of the day again . 
`` Margaret ! '' 
said Mr. Hale , at last , in a sort of sudden desperate way , that made her start . 
Mr. Lennox had never had the opportunity of having any private conversation with her father after her refusal , or else that would indeed be a very serious affair . 
In the first place , Margaret felt guilty and ashamed of having grown so much into a woman as to be thought of in marriage ; and secondly , she did not know if her father might not be displeased that she had taken upon herself to decline Mr. Lennox 's proposal . 
But she soon felt it was not about anything , which having only lately and suddenly occurred , could have given rise to any complicated thoughts , that her father wished to speak to her . 
He made her take a chair by him ; he stirred the fire , snuffed the candles , and sighed once or twice before he could make up his mind to say -- and it came out with a jerk after all -- `` Margaret ! 
Margaret could not bear the sight of the suspense , which was even more distressing to her father than to herself . 
He looked up at her suddenly , and then said with a slow and enforced calmness : `` Because I must no longer be a minister in the Church of England . '' 
Margaret had imagined nothing less than that some of the preferments which her mother so much desired had befallen her father at last -- something that would force him to leave beautiful , beloved Helstone , and perhaps compel him to go and live in some of the stately and silent Closes which Margaret had seen from time to time in cathedral towns . 
But nothing to the shock she received from Mr. Hale 's last speech . 
The aspect of piteous distress on his face , almost as imploring a merciful and kind judgment from his child , gave her a sudden sickening . 
Had her father , out of a natural love for his son , connived at any -- `` Oh ! 
Margaret , I will tell you about it . 
asked Margaret , more shocked than ever . 
Margaret sighed , as if standing on the verge of some new horror . 
Margaret , how I love the holy Church from which I am to be shut out ! '' 
Margaret could not tell what to say ; it seemed to her as terribly mysterious as if her father were about to turn Mahometan . 
it seems so terrible , so shocking , '' said Margaret , suddenly bursting into tears . 
The one staid foundation of her home , of her idea of her beloved father , seemed reeling and rocking . 
What could she say ? 
The sight of her distress made Mr. Hale nerve himself , in order to try and comfort her . 
`` Listen , dear Margaret , '' said he , putting one arm round her waist . 
She took his hand in hers and grasped it tight , but she could not lift up her head ; nor indeed could she attend to what he read , so great was her internal agitation . 
As he read this , and glanced at much more which he did not read , he gained resolution for himself , and felt as if he too could be brave and firm in doing what he believed to be right ; but as he ceased he heard Margaret 's low convulsive sob ; and his courage sank down under the keen sense of suffering . 
`` Margaret , dear ! '' 
said he , drawing her closer , `` think of the early martyrs ; think of the thousands who have suffered . '' 
`` But , father , '' said she , suddenly lifting up her flushed , tear-wet face , `` the early martyrs suffered for the truth , while you -- oh ! 
Margaret , I tried to do it ; I tried to content myself with simply refusing the additional preferment , and stopping quietly here , -- strangling my conscience now , as I had strained it before . 
He rose and walked up and down the room , speaking low words of self-reproach and humiliation , of which Margaret was thankful to hear but few . 
`` Margaret , I return to the old sad burden : we must leave Helstone . '' 
thought Margaret ; and yet perhaps it was as well . 
Lingering would only add stings to the pain ; it was better to be stunned into numbness by hearing of all these arrangements , which seemed to be nearly completed before she had been told . 
asked she , with a deep sigh . 
To her surprise , her father began to walk about again before he answered . 
At length he stopped and replied : `` Margaret , I am a poor coward after all . 
Margaret was almost overpowered with the idea that her mother knew nothing of it all , and yet the affair was so far advanced ! 
`` Yes , indeed she must , '' said Margaret . 
said she at last , struck with a fresh wonder as to their future plans , if plans indeed her father had . 
`` You shall be told all , Margaret . 
I think I could do anything but that : the idea of her distress turns me sick with dread . 
If I tell you all , perhaps you could break it to her to-morrow . 
Would you dislike breaking it to her very much , Margaret ? '' 
Margaret did dislike it , did shrink from it more than from anything she had ever had to do in her life before . 
She could not speak , all at once . 
Her father said , `` You dislike it very much , do n't you , Margaret ? '' 
Then she conquered herself , and said , with a bright strong look on her face : `` It is a painful thing , but it must be done , and I will do it as well as ever I can . 
Mr. Hale shook his head despondingly : he pressed her hand in token of gratitude . 
Margaret was nearly upset again into a burst of crying . 
To turn her thoughts , she said : `` Now tell me , papa , what our plans are . 
`` Frederick must not suffer , '' said Margaret decidedly ; `` in a foreign country ; so unjustly treated by his own . 
I could not bear it , Margaret . 
Margaret resolved to keep silence . 
Mr. Hale continued : `` A few months ago , when my misery of doubt became more than I could bear without speaking , I wrote to Mr. Bell -- you remember Mr. Bell , Margaret ? '' 
said Margaret . 
said Margaret , looking scornful : `` What in the world do manufacturers want with the classics , or literature , or the accomplishments of a gentleman ? '' 
`` Oh , '' said her father , `` some of them really seem to be fine fellows , conscious of their own deficiencies , which is more than many a man at Oxford is . 
And in Milton , Margaret , I shall find a busy life , if not a happy one , and people and scenes so different that I shall never be reminded of Helstone . '' 
There was the secret motive , as Margaret knew , from her own feelings . 
Discordant as it was -- with almost a detestation for all she had ever heard of the North of England , the manufacturers , the people , the wild and bleak country -- there was this one recommendation -- it would be different from Helstone , and could never remind them of that beloved place . 
asked Margaret , after a short silence . 
Margaret was almost stunned . 
Nothing is fixed , '' said her father with anxious hesitation , as he noticed the filmy sorrow that came over her eyes , and the sudden change in her complexion . 
But she recovered herself immediately . 
As it is -- Margaret , I dare not tell her ! '' 
`` No , '' said Margaret , sadly , `` I will do it . 
Oh papa , '' cried she , with sudden passionate entreaty , `` say -- tell me it is a night-mare -- a horrid dream -- not the real waking truth ! 
Mr. Hale sat in rigid stillness while she spoke . 
Then he looked her in the face , and said in a slow , hoarse , measured way -- `` I do mean it , Margaret . 
He looked at her in the same steady , stony manner , for some moments after he had done speaking . 
She , too , gazed back with pleading eyes before she would believe that it was irrevocable . 
Then she arose and went , without another word or look , towards the door . 
As her fingers were on the handle he called her back . 
He was standing by the fireplace , shrunk and stooping ; but as she came near he drew himself up to his full height , and , placing his hands on her head , he said , solemnly : `` The blessing of God be upon thee , my child ! '' 
`` And may He restore you to His Church , '' responded she , out of the fulness of her heart . 
The next moment she feared lest this answer to his blessing might be irreverent , wrong -- might hurt him as coming from his daughter , and she threw her arms round his neck . 
Mr. Hale hurriedly said -- `` Go , Margaret , go . 
Margaret made a good listener to all her mother 's little plans for adding some small comforts to the lot of the poorer parishioners . 
She could not help listening , though each new project was a stab to her heart . 
Old Simon 's rheumatism might be bad and his eyesight worse ; there would be no one to go and read to him , and comfort him with little porringers of broth and good red flannel : or if there was , it would be a stranger , and the old man would watch in vain for her . 
`` Oh , mamma , let us do all we can , '' said Margaret , eagerly , not seeing the prudential side of the question , only grasping at the idea that they were rendering such help for the last time ; `` we may not be here long . '' 
asked Mrs. Hale , auxiously , misunderstanding Margaret 's hint of the uncertainty of their stay at Helstone . 
I am afraid you have taken cold ; or the bad air from some of the stagnant ponds -- '' `` Oh , mamma , '' said Margaret , faintly smiling as she kissed her mother , `` I am quite well -- do n't alarm yourself about me ; I am only tired . '' 
Margaret went upstairs . 
To soothe her mother 's anxiety she submitted to a basin of gruel . 
She was lying languidly in bed when Mrs. Hale came up to make some last inquiries and kiss her before going to her own room for the night . 
`` Margaret , I heard you were up . 
Mr. Hale and Margaret knelt by the window-seat -- he looking up , she bowed down in humble shame . 
God was there , close around them , hearing her father 's whispered words . 
Her father might be a heretic ; but had not she , in her despairing doubts not five minutes before , shown herself a far more utter sceptic ? 
She spoke not a word , but stole to bed after her father had left her , like a child ashamed of its fault . 
If the world was full of perplexing problems she would trust , and only ask to see the one step needful for the hour . 
Mr. Lennox -- his visit , his proposal -- the remembrance of which had been so rudely pushed aside by the subsequent events of the day -- haunted her dreams that night . 
He was climbing up some tree of fabulous height to reach the branch whereon was slung her bonnet : he was falling , and she was struggling to save him , but held back by some invisible powerful hand . 
And yet , with a shifting of the scene , she was once more in the Harley Street drawing-room , talking to him as of old , and still with a consciousness all the time that she had seen him killed by that terrible fall . 
She awoke with a start , unrefreshed , and conscious of some reality worse even than her feverish dreams . 
It all came back upon her ; not merely the sorrow , but the terrible discord in the sorrow . 
Where , to what distance apart , had her father wandered , led by doubts which were to her temptations of the Evil One ? 
She longed to ask , and yet would not have heard for all the world . 
The fine crisp morning made her mother feel particularly well and happy at breakfast-time . 
She talked on , planning village kindnesses , unheeding the silence of her husband and the monosyllabic answers of Margaret . 
He did not look at either of them , but Margaret knew what he meant . 
By seven the announcement must be made to her mother . 
Mr. Hale would have delayed making it till half-past six , but Margaret was of different stuff . 
She could not bear the impending weight on her mind all the day long : better get the worst over ; the day would be too short to comfort her mother . 
But while she stood by the window , thinking how to begin , and waiting for the servant to have left the room , her mother had gone up-stairs to put on her things to go to the school . 
She came down ready equipped , in a brisker mood than usual . 
`` Mother , come round the garden with me this morning ; just one turn , '' said Margaret , putting her arm round Mrs. Hale 's waist . 
Mrs. Hale spoke -- said something -- Margaret could not tell what . 
Her eye caught on a bee entering a deep-belled flower : when that bee flew forth with his spoil she would begin -- that should be the sign . 
she blurted forth . 
`` Papa himself , '' said Margaret , longing to say something gentle and consoling , but literally not knowing how . 
Mrs. Hale looked up in Margaret 's face all the time she was speaking these words : the shadow on her countenance told that she , at least , believed in the truth of what she said . 
It came strongly upon Margaret 's mind that her mother ought to have been told : that whatever her faults of discontent and repining might have been , it was an error in her father to have left her to learn his change of opinion , and his approaching change of life , from her better-informed child . 
Margaret sat down by her mother , and took her unresisting head on her breast , bending her own soft cheeks down caressingly to touch her face . 
`` When did he tell you , Margaret ? '' 
`` Yesterday , only yesterday , '' replied Margaret , detecting the jealousy which prompted the inquiry . 
-- trying to divert her mother 's thoughts into compassionate sympathy for all her father had gone through . 
Margaret shook her head , and the tears came into her eyes , as her mother touched the bare nerve of her own regret . 
`` I 'm afraid not , '' said Margaret . 
I call it very unfeeling , '' said she , beginning to take relief in tears . 
Mistaken as Margaret felt her father 's conduct to have been , she could not bear to hear it blamed by her mother . 
She knew that his very reverse had originated in a tenderness for her , which might be cowardly , but was not unfeeling . 
`` I almost hoped you might have been glad to leave Helstone , mamma , '' said she , after a pause . 
Margaret was glad that her mother 's thoughts were turned away from the fact of her husband 's silence to her on the point which must have been so near his heart . 
Next to the serious vital anxiety as to the nature of her father 's doubts , this was the one circumstance of the case that gave Margaret the most pain . 
`` Partly , '' said Margaret , sighing , `` because it is so very different from Helstone -- partly because Mr. Bell says there is an opening there for a private tutor . '' 
Margaret was inexpressibly relieved to find that her mother 's anxiety and distress was lowered to this point , so insignificant to herself , and on which she could do so much to help . 
She planned and promised , and led her mother on to arrange fully as much as could be fixed before they knew somewhat more definitively what Mr. Hale intended to do . 
Throughout the day Margaret never left her mother ; bending her whole soul to sympathise in all the various turns her feelings took ; towards evening especially , as she became more and more anxious that her father should find a soothing welcome home awaiting him , after his return from his day of fatigue and distress . 
She dwelt upon what he must have borne in secret for long ; her mother only replied coldly that he ought to have told her , and that then at any rate he would have had an adviser to give him counsel ; and Margaret turned faint at heart when she heard her father 's step in the hall . 
She dared not go to meet him , and tell him what she had done all day , for fear of her mother 's jealous annoyance . 
She heard him linger , as if awaiting her , or some sign of her ; and she dared not stir ; she saw by her mother 's twitching lips , and changing colour , that she too was aware that her husband had returned . 
And then , in tears , Margaret left her , as she rushed up-stairs to throw herself on her bed , and hide her face in the pillows to stifle the hysteric sobs that would force their way at last , after the rigid self-control of the whole day . 
How long she lay thus she could not tell . 
She heard no noise , though the housemaid came in to arrange the room . 
In consequence of this , Margaret felt herself touched , and started up into a sitting posture ; she saw the accustomed room , the figure of Dixon in shadow , as the latter stood holding the candle a little behind her , for fear of the effect on Miss Hale 's startled eyes , swollen and blinded as they were . 
said Margaret , resuming her trembling self-restraint . 
continued she , lifting herself languidly off the bed , yet letting her feet touch the ground without fairly standing down , as she shaded her wet ruffled hair off her face , and tried to look as though nothing were the matter ; as if she had only been asleep . 
Dixon had been so much accustomed to comment upon Mr. Hale 's proceedings to her mistress -LRB- who listened to her , or not , as she was in the humour -RRB- , that she never noticed Margaret 's flashing eye and dilating nostril . 
Margaret repeated , `` You may leave me , Dixon . 
Dixon did not know whether to resent these decided words or to cry ; either course would have done with her mistress : but , as she said to herself , `` Miss Margaret has a touch of the old gentleman about her , as well as poor Master Frederick ; I wonder where they get it from ? '' 
And Margaret gravely lighted her out of the room , and bolted the door . 
From henceforth Dixon obeyed and admired Margaret . 
Margaret needed all Dixon 's help in action , and silence in words : for , for some time , the latter thought it her duty to show her sense of affront by saying as little as possible to her young lady ; so the energy came out in doing rather than in speaking . 
A fortnight was a very short time to make arrangements for so serious a removal ; as Dixon said , `` Any one but a gentleman -- indeed almost any other gentleman -- '' but catching a look at Margaret 's straight , stern brow just here , she coughed the remainder of the sentence away , and meekly took the horehound drop that Margaret offered her , to stop the `` little tickling at my chest , miss . '' 
Mrs. Hale , overpowered by all the troubles and necessities for immediate household decisions that seemed to come upon her at once , became really ill , and Margaret almost felt it as a relief when her mother fairly took to her bed , and left the management of affairs to her . 
Dixon , true to her post of body-guard , attended most faithfully to her mistress , and only emerged from Mrs. Hale 's bedroom to shake her head , and murmur to herself in a manner which Margaret did not choose to hear . 
For , the one thing clear and straight before her , was the necessity for leaving Helstone . 
Mr. Hale 's successor in the living was appointed ; and , at any rate , after her father 's decision , there must be no lingering now , for his sake , as well as from every other consideration . 
Margaret , inexperienced as she was in all the necessary matter-of-fact business to be got through , did not know to whom to apply for advice . 
The cook and Charlotte worked away with willing arms and stout hearts at all the moving and packing ; and as far as that went , Margaret 's admirable sense enabled her to see what was best , and to direct how it should be done . 
So many arrangements depended on this decision that Margaret resolved to ask her father one evening , in spite of his evident fatigue and low spirits . 
Dixon had just come into the room for another cup of tea for Mrs. Hale , and catching Mr. Hale 's last words , and protected by his presence from Margaret 's upbraiding eyes , made bold to say , `` My poor mistress ! '' 
`` You had better take mamma her tea while it is hot , Dixon , '' said Margaret , in a tone of quiet authority . 
said Margaret , `` it is this suspense that is bad for you both . 
Of course , mamma must feel your change of opinions : we ca n't help that , '' she continued , softly ; `` but now the course is clear , at least to a certain point . 
They had never had much superfluity , as Margaret knew . 
She felt that it was a great weight suddenly thrown upon her shoulders . 
Four months ago , all the decisions she needed to make were what dress she would wear for dinner , and to help Edith to draw out the lists of who should take down whom in the dinner parties at home . 
Once a year , there was a long discussion between her aunt and Edith as to whether they should go to the Isle of Wight , abroad , or to Scotland ; but at such times Margaret herself was secure of drifting , without any exertion of her own , into the quiet harbour of home . 
Now , since that day when Mr. Lennox came , and startled her into a decision , every day brought some question , momentous to her , and to those whom she loved , to be settled . 
Her father went up after tea to sit with his wife . 
Margaret remained alone in the drawing-room . 
Suddenly she took a candle and went into her father 's study for a great atlas , and lugging it back into the drawing-room , she began to pore over the map of England . 
She was ready to look up brightly when her father came down-stairs . 
said Margaret . 
To tell you the truth , Margaret , I sometimes feel as if that woman gave herself airs . '' 
`` To be sure she does , papa , '' replied Margaret ; `` and if she has to put up with a different style of living , we shall have to put up with her airs , which will be worse . 
Now Margaret could work , and act , and plan in good earnest . 
Down-stairs , Margaret stood calm and collected , ready to counsel or advise the men who had been called in to help the cook and Charlotte . 
Besides , was Margaret one to give way before strange men , or even household friends like the cook and Charlotte ! 
But at last the four packers went into the kitchen to their tea ; and Margaret moved stiffly and slowly away from the place in the hall where she had been standing so long , out through the bare echoing drawing-room , into the twilight of an early November evening . 
There was a filmy veil of soft dull mist obscuring , but not hiding , all objects , giving them a lilac hue , for the sun had not yet fully set ; a robin was singing , -- perhaps , Margaret thought , the very robin that her father had so often talked of as his winter pet , and for which he had made , with his own hands , a kind of robin-house by his study-window . 
Margaret went along the walk under the pear-tree wall . 
She had never been along it since she paced it at Henry Lennox 's side . 
Here , at this bed of thyme , he began to speak of what she must not think of now . 
Her eyes were on that late-blowing rose as she was trying to answer ; and she had caught the idea of the vivid beauty of the feathery leaves of the carrots in the very middle of his last sentence . 
Even now , while she walked sadly through taht damp and drear garden in the dusk , with everything falling and fading , and turning to decay around her , he might be gladly putting away his law-books after a day of satisfactory toil , and freshening himself up , as he had told her he often did , by a run in the Temple Gardens , taking in the while the grand inarticulate mighty roar of tens of thousands of busy men , nigh at hand , but not seen , and catching ever , at his quick turns , glimpses of the lights of the city coming up out of the depths of the river . 
He had often spoken to Margaret of these hasty walks , snatched in the intervals between study and dinner . 
At his best times and in his best moods had he spoken of them ; and the thought of them had struck upon her fancy . 
Margaret knew it was some poacher . 
Sitting up in her bed-room this past autumn , with the light of her candle extinguished , and purely revelling in the solemn beauty of the heavens and the earth , she had many a time seen the light noiseless leap of the poachers over the garden-fence , their quick tramp across the dewy moonlit lawn , their disappearance in the black still shadow beyond . 
The wild adventurous freedom of their life had taken her fancy ; she felt inclined to wish them success ; she had no fear of them . 
But to-night she was afraid , she knew not why . 
She heard Charlotte shutting the windows , and fastening up for the night , unconscious that any one had gone out into the garden . 
A small branch -- it might be of rotten wood , or it might be broken by force -- came heavily down in the nearest part of the forest ; Margaret ran , swift as Camilla , down to the window , and rapped at it with a hurried tremulousness which startled Charlotte within . 
Charlotte looked at Margaret with surprise ; and Margaret , feeling it rather than seeing it , rose up . 
`` I was afraid you were shutting me out altogether , Charlotte , '' said she , half-smiling . 
Margaret sat down on the rug , partly to warm herself , for the dampness of the evening hung about her dress , and overfatigue had made her chilly . 
She kept herself balanced by clasping her hands together round her knees ; her head dropped a little towards her chest ; the attitude was one of despondency , whatever her frame of mind might be . 
But when she heard her father 's step on the gravel outside , she started up , and hastily shaking her heavy black hair back , and wiping a few tears away that had come on her cheeks she knew not how , she went out to open the door for him . 
He showed far more depression than she did . 
She could hardly get him to talk , although she tried to speak on subjects that would interest him , at the cost of an effort every time which she thought would be her last . 
asked she , on seeing his refusal to touch food of any kind . 
-- Nay , Margaret , what is the matter , dear ? '' 
The thought of the little child watching for her , and continually disappointed -- from no forgetfulness on her part , but from sheer inability to leave home -- was the last drop in poor Margaret 's cup , and she was sobbing away as if her heart would break . 
Margaret tried to check herself , but would not speak until she could do so with firmness . 
She heard him talking , as if to himself . 
`` No , father , '' said Margaret , looking straight at him , and speaking low and steadily . 
She dropped her voice at the last few words , as if entertaining the idea of hypocrisy for a moment in connection with her father savoured of irreverence . 
`` Besides , '' she went on , `` it is only that I am tired to-night ; do n't think that I am suffering from what you have done , dear papa . 
We ca n't either of us talk about it to-night , I believe , '' said she , finding that tears and sobs would come in spite of herself . 
A sting at Margaret 's heart made her strive to look out to catch the last glimpse of the old church tower at the turn where she knew it might be seen above a wave of the forest trees ; but her father remembered this too , and she silently acknowledged his greater right to the one window from which it could be seen . 
She leant back and shut her eyes , and the tears welled forth , and hung glittering for an instant on the shadowing eyelashes before rolling slowly down her cheeks , and dropping , unheeded , on her dress . 
Oh , and there , I declare -- no , it is not -- yes , it is -- Margaret , we have just passed Mr. Henry Lennox . 
Margaret started forwards , and as quickly fell back , half-smiling at herself for the sudden motion . 
They were a hundred yards away by this time ; but he seemed like a relic of Helstone -- he was associated with a bright morning , an eventful day , and she should have liked to have seen him , without his seeing her , -- without the chance of their speaking . 
Yet within a mile , Margaret knew of house after house , where she for her own sake , and her mother for her aunt Shaw 's , would be welcomed , if they came in gladness , or even in peace of mind . 
In such towns in the south of England , Margaret had seen the shopmen , when not employed in their business , lounging a little at their doors , enjoying the fresh air , and the look up and down the street . 
Here , if they had any leisure from customers , they made themselves business in the shop -- even , Margaret fancied , to the unnecessary unrolling and re-rolling of ribbons . 
All these differences struck upon her mind , as she and her mother went out next morning to look for lodgings . 
There , for the first time for many days , did Margaret feel at rest . 
The distant sea , lapping the sandy shore with measured sound ; the nearer cries of the donkey-boys ; the unusual scenes moving before her like pictures , which she cared not in her laziness to have fully explained before they passed away ; the stroll down to the beach to breathe the sea-air , soft and warm on that sandy shore even to the end of November ; the great long misty sea-line touching the tender-coloured sky ; the white sail of a distant boat turning silver in some pale sunbeam : -- it seemed as if she could dream her life away in such luxury of pensiveness , in which she made her present all in all , from not daring to think of the past , or wishing to contemplate the future . 
One evening it was arranged that Margaret and her father should go the next day to Milton-Northern , and look out for a house . 
Margaret knew that they ought to be removing ; but she had a repugnance to the idea of a manufacturing town , and believed that her mother was receiving benefit from Heston air , so she would willingly have deferred the expedition to Milton . 
Here and there a great oblong many-windowed factory stood up , like a hen among her chickens , puffing out black `` unparliamentary '' smoke , and sufficiently accounting for the cloud which Margaret had taken to foretell rain . 
Margaret had now and then been into the city in her drives with her aunt . 
People thronged the footpaths , most of them well-dressed as regarded the material , but with a slovenly looseness which struck Margaret as different from the shabby , threadbare smartness of a similar class in London . 
Margaret hoped so too , though she said nothing . 
She had never come fairly in contact with the taste that loves ornament , however bad , more than the plainness and simplicity which are of themselves the framework of elegance . 
Her father took her through the entrance of the hotel , and leaving her at the foot of the staircase , went to the address of the landlord of the house they had fixed upon . 
Just as Margaret had her hand on the door of their sitting-room , she was followed by a quick-stepping waiter : `` I beg your pardon , ma'am . 
Margaret opened the door and went in with the straight , fearless , dignified presence habitual to her . 
She felt no awkwardness ; she had too much the habits of society for that . 
Here was a person come on business to her father ; and , as he was one who had shown himself obliging , she was disposed to treat him with a full measure of civility . 
Mr. Thornton was a good deal more surprised and discomfited than she . 
said Margaret , after a half-instant 's pause , during which his unready words would not come . 
Mr. Thornton was in habits of authority himself , but she seemed to assume some kind of rule over him at once . 
He had been getting impatient at the loss of his time on a market-day , the moment before she appeared , yet now he calmly took a seat at her bidding . 
Mr. Thornton had thought that the house in Crampton was really just the thing ; but now that he saw Margaret , with her superb ways of moving and looking , he began to feel ashamed of having imagined that it would do very well for the Hales , in spite of a certain vulgarity in it which had struck him at the time of his looking it over . 
Margaret could not help her looks ; but the short curled upper lip , the round , massive up-turned chin , the manner of carrying her head , her movements , full of a soft feminine defiance , always gave strangers the impression of haughtiness . 
She was tired now , and would rather have remained silent , and taken the rest her father had planned for her ; but , of course , she owed it to herself to be a gentlewoman , and to speak courteously from time to time to this stranger ; not over-brushed , nor over polished , it must be confessed , after his rough encounter with Milton streets and crowds . 
She wished that he would go , as he had once spoken of doing , instead of sitting there , answering with curt sentences all the remarks she made . 
She had taken off her shawl , and hung it over the back of her chair . 
She sat facing him and facing the light ; her full beauty met his eye ; her round white flexile throat rising out of the full , yet lithe figure ; her lips , moving so slightly as she spoke , not breaking the cold serene look of her face with any variation from the one lovely haughty curve ; her eyes , with their soft gloom , meeting his with quiet maiden freedom . 
He almost said to himself that he did not like her , before their conversation ended ; he tried so to compensate himself for the mortified feeling , that while he looked upon her with an admiration he could not repress , she looked at him with proud indifference , taking him , he thought , for what , in his irritation , he told himself he was -- a great rough fellow , with not a grace or a refinement about him . 
Her quiet coldness of demeanour he interpreted into contemptuousness , and resented it in his heart to the pitch of almost inclining him to get up and go away , and have nothing more to do with these Hales , and their superciliousness . 
Just as Margaret had exhausted her last subject of conversation -- and yet conversation that could hardly be called which consisted of so few and such short speeches -- her father came in , and with his pleasant gentlemanly courteousness of apology , reinstated his name and family in Mr. Thornton 's good opinion . 
Mr. Hale and his visitor had a good deal to say respecting their mutual friend , Mr. Bell ; and Margaret , glad that her part of entertaining the visitor was over , went to the window to try and make herself more familiar with the strange aspect of the street . 
She got so much absorbed in watching what was going on outside that she hardly heard her father when he spoke to her , and he had to repeat what he said : `` Margaret ! 
she replied , and began to turn over in her mind the possibility of hiding part of it , at least , by some of her sketches , but gave up the idea at last , as likely only to make bad worse . 
Her father , meanwhile , with his kindly country hospitality , was pressing Mr. Thornton to stay to luncheon with them . 
It would have been very inconvenient to him to do so , yet he felt that he should have yielded , if Margaret by word or look had seconded her father 's invitation ; he was glad she did not , and yet he was irritated at her for not doing it . 
She gave him a low , grave bow when he left , and he felt more awkward and self-conscious in every limb than he had ever done in all his life before . 
`` Well , Margaret , now to luncheon , as fast as we can . 
`` Ask Margaret , '' said her husband . 
`` She and he had a long attempt at conversation , while I was away speaking to the landlord . '' 
I hardly know what he is like , '' said Margaret , lazily ; too tired to tax her powers of description much . 
And then rousing herself , she said , `` He is a tall , broad-shouldered man , about -- how old , papa ? '' 
`` Not vulgar or common though , '' put in her father , rather jealous of any disparagement of the sole friend he had in Milton . 
said Margaret . 
`` Do n't call the Milton manufacturers tradesmen , Margaret , '' said her father . 
Margaret and Dixon had been at work for two days , unpacking and arranging , but everything inside the house still looked in disorder ; and outside a thick fog crept up to the very windows , and was driven in to every open door in choking white wreaths of unwholesome mist . 
`` Oh , Margaret ! 
Margaret 's heart echoed the dreariness of the tone in which this question was put . 
She could scarcely command herself enough to say , `` Oh , the fogs in London are sometimes far worse ! '' 
`` Not at all , thank you , Dixon , '' replied Margaret , coldly . 
Mr. Hale was equally out of spirits , and equally came upon Margaret for sympathy . 
`` Margaret , I do believe this is an unhealthy place . 
At night when Margaret realised this , she felt inclined to sit down in a stupor of despair . 
The heavy smoky air hung about her bed-room , which occupied the long narrow projection at the back of the house . 
All their efforts had been directed to make her mother 's room comfortable . 
Margaret sat down on a box , the direction card upon which struck her as having been written at Helstone -- beautiful , beloved Helstone ! 
She lost herself in dismal thought : but at last she determined to take her mind away from the present ; and suddenly remembered that she had a letter from Edith which she had only half read in the bustle of the morning . 
It was to tell of their arrival at Corfu ; their voyage along the Mediterranean -- their music , and dancing on board ship ; the gay new life opening upon her ; her house with its trellised balcony , and its views over white cliffs and deep blue sea . 
She could not only seize the salient and characteristic points of a scene , but she could enumerate enough of indiscriminate particulars for Margaret to make it out for herself . 
She expressed an affectionate hope that , if the regiment stopped another year at Corfu , Margaret might come out and pay her a long visit . 
She asked Margaret if she remembered the day twelve-month on which she , Edith , wrote -- how it rained all day long in Harley Street ; and how she would not put on her new gown to go to a stupid dinner , and get it all wet and splashed in going to the carriage ; and how at that very dinner they had first met Captain Lennox . 
Margaret remembered it well . 
Margaret had joined the party in the evening . 
The recollection of the plentiful luxury of all the arrangements , the stately handsomeness of the furniture , the size of the house , the peaceful , untroubled ease of the visitors -- all came vividly before her , in strange contrast to the present time . 
The habitual dinners , the calls , the shopping , the dancing evenings , were all going on , going on for ever , though her Aunt Shaw and Edith were no longer there ; and she , of course , was even less missed . 
So Margaret rose up and began slowly to undress herself , feeling the full luxury of acting leisurely , late as it was , after all the past hurry of the day . 
She fell asleep , hoping for some brightness , either internal or external . 
But if she had known how long it would be before the brightness came , her heart would have sunk low down . 
Her mother caught a severe cold , and Dixon herself was evidently not well , although Margaret could not insult her more than by trying to save her , or by taking any care of her . 
They could hear of no girl to assist her ; all were at work in the factories ; at least , those who applied were well scolded by Dixon , for thinking that such as they could ever be trusted to work in a gentleman 's house . 
Margaret longed to send for Charlotte ; but besides the objection of her being a better servant than they could now afford to keep , the distance was too great . 
Margaret rather encouraged this light , merry way of viewing her father 's acquaintance with Mr. Thornton , because she felt that her mother was inclined to look upon this new friendship of her husband 's with jealous eyes . 
As long as his time had been solely occupied with his books and his parishioners , as at Helstone , she had appeared to care little whether she saw much of him or not ; but now that he looked eagerly forward to each renewal of his intercourse with Mr. Thornton , she seemed hurt and annoyed , as if he were slighting her companionship for the first time . 
But Margaret went less abroad , among machinery and men ; saw less of power in its public effect , and , as it happened , she was thrown with one or two of those who , in all measures affecting masses of people , must be acute sufferers for the good of many . 
It fell to Margaret 's share to have to look out for a servant to assist Dixon , who had at first undertaken to find just the person she wanted to do all the rough work of the house . 
Margaret was weary and impatient of the accounts which Dixon perpetually brought to Mrs. Hale of the behaviour of these would-be servants . 
Not but what Margaret was repelled by the rough uncourteous manners of these people ; not but what she shrunk with fastidious pride from their hail-fellow accost , and severely resented their unconcealed curiosity as to the means and position of any family who lived in Milton , and yet were not engaged in trade of some kind . 
But the more Margaret felt impertinence , the more likely she was to be silent on the subject ; and , at any rate , if she took upon herself to make inquiry for a servant , she could spare her mother the recital of all her disappointments and fancied or real insults . 
Margaret accordingly went up and down to butchers and grocers , seeking for a nonpareil of a girl ; and lowering her hopes and expectations every week , as she found the difficulty of meeting with any one in a manufacturing town who did not prefer the better wages and greater independence of working in a mill . 
It was something of a trial to Margaret to go out by herself in this busy bustling place . 
Mrs. Shaw 's ideas of propriety and her own helpless dependence on others , had always made her insist that a footman should accompany Edith and Margaret , if they went beyond Harley Street or the immediate neighbourhood . 
The limits by which this rule of her aunt 's had circumscribed Margaret 's independence had been silently rebelled against at the time : and she had doubly enjoyed the free walks and rambles of her forest life , from the contrast which they presented . 
She went along there with a bounding fearless step , that occasionally broke out into a run , if she were in a hurry , and occasionally was stilled into perfect repose , as she stood listening to , or watching any of the wild creatures who sang in the leafy courts , or glanced out with their keen bright eyes from the low brushwood or tangled furze . 
It was a trial to come down from such motion or such stillness , only guided by her own sweet will , to the even and decorous pace necessary in streets . 
But she could have laughed at herself for minding this change , if it had not been accompanied by what was a more serious annoyance . 
Until Margaret had learnt the times of their ingress and egress , she was very unfortunate in constantly falling in with them . 
The tones of their unrestrained voices , and their carelessness of all common rules of street politeness , frightened Margaret a little at first . 
The girls , with their rough , but not unfriendly freedom , would comment on her dress , even touch her shawl or gown to ascertain the exact material ; nay , once or twice she was asked questions relative to some article which they particularly admired . 
There was such a simple reliance on her womanly sympathy with their love of dress , and on her kindliness , that she gladly replied to these inquiries , as soon as she understood them ; and half smiled back at their remarks . 
She did not mind meeting any number of girls , loud spoken and boisterous though they might be . 
But she alternately dreaded and fired up against the workmen , who commented not on her dress , but on her looks , in the same open fearless manner . 
She , who had hitherto felt that even the most refined remark on her personal appearance was an impertinence , had to endure undisguised admiration from these outspoken men . 
But the very out-spokenness marked their innocence of any intention to hurt her delicacy , as she would have perceived if she had been less frightened by the disorderly tumult . 
Out of her fright came a flash of indignation which made her face scarlet , and her dark eyes gather flame , as she heard some of their speeches . 
Yet there were other sayings of their , which , when she reached the quiet safety of home , amused her even while they irritated her . 
For instance , one day , after she had passed a number of men , several of whom had paid her the not unusual compliment of wishing she was their sweetheart , one of the lingerers added , `` Your bonny face , my lass , makes the day look brighter . '' 
And another day , as she was unconsciously smiling at some passing thought , she was addressed by a poorly-dressed , middle-aged workman , with `` You may well smile , my lass ; many a one would smile to have such a bonny face . '' 
This man looked so careworn that Margaret could not help giving him an answering smile , glad to think that her looks , such as they were , should have had the power to call up a pleasant thought . 
He seemed to understand her acknowledging glance , and a silent recognition was established between them whenever the chances of the day brought them across each other 's paths . 
They had never exchanged a word ; nothing had been said but that first compliment : yet somehow Margaret looked upon this man with more interest than upon any one else in Milton . 
Once or twice , on Sundays , she saw him walking with a girl , evidently his daughter , and , if possible , still more unhealthy than he was himself . 
One day Margaret and her father had been as far as the fields that lay round the town ; it was early spring , and she had gathered some of the hedge and ditch flowers , dog-violets , lesser celandines , and the like , with an unspoken lament in her heart for the sweet profusion of the South . 
Her father had left her to go into Milton upon some business ; and on the road home she met her humble friends . 
The girl looked wistfully at the flowers , and , acting on a sudden impulse , Margaret offered them to her . 
Her pale blue eyes lightened up as she took them , and her father spoke for her . 
said Margaret , half sighing . 
`` I come from the South -- from Hampshire , '' she continued , a little afraid of wounding his consciousness of ignornace , if she used a name which he did not understand . 
Margaret had slackened her pace to walk along side of the man and his daughter , whose steps were regulated by the feebleness of the latter . 
She now spoke to the girl , and there was a sound of tender pity in the tone of her voice as she did so that went right to the heart of the father . 
`` No , '' said the girl , `` nor never will be , '' `` Spring is coming , '' said Margaret , as if to suggest pleasant , hopeful thoughts . 
Margaret looked up at the man , almost expecting some contradiction from him , or at least some remark that would modify his daughter 's utter hopelessness . 
Margaret was shocked by his words -- shocked but not repelled ; rather attracted and interested . 
Margaret was surprised at this last question , for at Helstone it would have been an understood thing , after the inquiries she had made , that she intended to come and call upon any poor neighbour whose name and habitation she had asked for . 
She suddenly felt rather shy of offering the visit , without having any reason to give for her wish to make it , beyond a kindly interest in a stranger . 
It seemed all at once to take the shape of an impertinence on her part ; she read this meaning too in the man 's eyes . 
But then relenting , as he saw her heightened colour , he added , `` Yo 're a foreigner , as one may say , and maybe do n't know many folk here , and yo 've given my wench here flowers out of yo ' r own hand ; -- yo ' may come if yo ' like . '' 
Margaret was half-amused , half-nettled at this answer . 
She was not sure if she would go where permission was given so like a favour conferred . 
Margaret went home , wondering at her new friends , and smiling at the man 's insight into what had been passing in her mind . 
From that day Milton became a brighter place to her . 
It was not the long , bleak sunny days of spring , nor yet was it that time was reconciling her to the town of her habitation . 
It was that in it she had found a human interest . 
He went up to different objects in the room , as if examining them , but Margaret saw that it was merely a nervous trick -- a way of putting off something he wished , yet feared to say . 
`` I do n't know that you would ever like him , or think him agreeable , Margaret . 
Margaret wreathed her throat in a scornful curve . 
Many a time that morning did Margaret wish Mr. Thornton far enough away . 
She had planned other employments for herself : a letter to Edith , a good piece of Dante , a visit to the Higginses . 
Every now and then , Margaret had to remind herself of her father 's regard for Mr. Thornton , to subdue the irritation of weariness that was stealing over her , and bringing on one of the bad headaches to which she had lately become liable . 
She could hardly speak when she sat down at last , and told her mother that she was no longer Peggy the laundry-maid , but Margaret Hale the lady . 
said Margaret , lifting herself up , `` do n't punish me so for a careless speech . 
Margaret lifted herself slowly up , and went to her own room ; for just now she could not bear much more . 
Margaret was lighting the lamp when he entered , for the darkness was coming on . 
It appeared to Mr. Thornton that all these graceful cares were habitual to the family : and especially of a piece with Margaret . 
She stood by the tea-table in a light-coloured muslin gown , which had a good deal of pink about it . 
She looked as if she was not attending to the conversation , but solely busy with the tea-cups , among which her round ivory hands moved with pretty , noiseless , daintiness . 
She had a bracelet on one taper arm , which would fall down over her round wrist . 
Mr. Thornton watched the re-placing of this troublesome ornament with far more attention than he listened to her father . 
It seemed as if it fascinated him to see her push it up impatiently , until it tightened her soft flesh ; and then to mark the loosening -- the fall . 
There was so little left to be done after he arrived at the preparation for tea , that he was almost sorry the obligation of eating and drinking came so soon to prevent his watching Margaret . 
She handed him his cup of tea with the proud air of an unwilling slave ; but her eye caught the moment when he was ready for another cup ; and he almost longed to ask her to do for him what he saw her compelled to do for her father , who took her little finger and thumb in his masculine hand , and made them serve as sugar-tongs . 
Mr. Thornton saw her beautiful eyes lifted to her father , full of light , half-laughter and half-love , as this bit of pantomime went on between the two , unobserved , as they fancied , by any . 
Margaret 's head still ached , as the paleness of her complexion , and her silence might have testified ; but she was resolved to throw herself into the breach , if there was any long untoward pause , rather than that her father 's friend , pupil , and guest should have cause to think himself in any way neglected . 
But the conversation went on ; and Margaret drew into a corner , near her mother , with her work , after the tea-things were taken away ; and felt that she might let her thoughts roam , without fear of being suddenly wanted to fill up a gap . 
Margaret was recalled to a sense of the present by some trivial , low-spoken remark of her mother 's ; and on suddely looking up from her work , her eye was caught by the difference of outward appearance between her father and Mr. Thornton , as betokening such distinctly opposite natures . 
Her father was of slight figure , which made him appear taller than he really was , when not contrasted , as at this time , with the tall , massive frame of another . 
The lines in her father 's face were soft and waving , with a frequent undulating kind of trembling movement passing over them , showing every fluctuating emotion ; the eyelids were large and arched , giving to the eyes a peculiar languid beauty which was almost feminine . 
Margaret liked this smile ; it was the first thing she had admired in this new friend of her father 's ; and the opposition of character , shown in all these details of appearance she had just been noticing , seemed to explain the attraction they evidently felt towards each other . 
She rearranged her mother 's worsted-work , and fell back into her own thoughts -- as completely forgotten by Mr. Thornton as if she had not been in the room , so thoroughly was he occupied in explaining to Mr. Hale the magnificent power , yet delicate adjustment of the might of the steam-hammer , which was recalling to Mr. Hale some of the wonderful stories of subservient genii in the Arabian Nights -- one moment stretching from earth to sky and filling all the width of the horizon , at the next obediently compressed into a vase small enough to be borne in the hand of a child . 
At her father 's quotation Margaret looked suddenly up , with inquiring wonder in her eyes . 
`` You are mistaken , '' said Margaret , roused by the aspersion on her beloved South to a fond vehemence of defence , that brought the colour into her cheeks and the angry tears into her eyes . 
You do not know the South , Mr. Thornton , '' she concluded , collapsing into a determined silence , and angry with herself for having said so much . 
asked he , with an inexpressible gentleness in his tone , as he saw that he had really hurt her . 
She continued resolutely silent ; yearning after the lovely haunts she had left far away in Hampshire , with a passionate longing that made her feel her voice would be unsteady and trembling if she spoke . 
And as for hands -- Margaret , how many times did you say you had washed your hands this morning before twelve o'clock ? 
Margaret 's lip curled , but somehow she was compelled to listen ; she could no longer abstract herself in her own thoughts . 
`` You consider all who are unsuccessful in raising themselves in the world , from whatever cause , as your enemies , then , if I understand you rightly , '' said Margaret , in a clear , cold voice . 
`` As their own enemies , certainly , '' said he , quickly , not a little piqued by the haughty disapproval her form of expression and tone of speaking implied . 
But , in a moment , his straightforward honesty made him feel that his words were but a poor and quibbling answer to what she had said ; and , be she as scornful as she liked , it was a duty he owed to himself to explain , as truly as he could , what he did mean . 
Yet it was very difficult to separate her interpretation , and keep it distinct from his meaning . 
When Mr. Thornton rose up to go away , after shaking hands with Mr. and Mrs. Hale , he made an advance to Margaret to wish her good-bye in a similar manner . 
It was the frank familiar custom of the place ; but Margaret was not prepared for it . 
She simply bowed her farewell ; although the instant she saw the hand , half put out , quickly drawn back , she was sorry she had not been aware of the intention . 
Mr. Thornton , however , knew nothing of her sorrow , and , drawing himself up to his full height , walked off , muttering as he left the house -- `` A more proud , disagreeable girl I never saw . 
`` Margaret ! '' 
`` I am surprised at you , Margaret , '' said her mother . 
`` I am not sure if it was not worse than being in the workhouse , '' replied her husband . 
`` That really is fine , '' said Margaret . 
asked her father . 
Margaret was collecting her mother 's working materials , and preparing to go to bed . 
Just as she was leaving the room , she hesitated -- she was inclined to make an acknowledgment which she thought would please her father , but which to be full and true must include a little annoyance . 
said her father laughing . 
But good night , child Your mother looks sadly tired to-night , Margaret . '' 
Margaret had noticed her mother 's jaded appearance with anxiety for some time past , and this remark of her father 's sent her up to bed with a dim fear lying like a weight on her heart . 
Once Margaret had gone into the chamber soon after Dixon left it , and found her mother on her knees , and as Margaret stole out she caught a few words , which were evidently a prayer for strength and patience to endure severe bodily suffering . 
Margaret yearned to re-unite the bond of intimate confidence which had been broken by her long residence at her aunt Shaw 's , and strove by gentle caresses and softened words to creep into the warmest place in her mother 's heart . 
But though she received caresses and fond words back again , in such profusion as would have gladdened her formerly , yet she felt that there was a secret withheld from her , and she believed it bore serious reference to her mother 's health . 
She lay awake very long this night , planning how to lessen the evil influence of their Milton life on her mother . 
Visiting register offices , seeing all manner of unlikely people , and very few in the least likely , absorbed Margaret 's time and thoughts for several days . 
One afternoon she met Bessy Higgins in the street , and stopped to speak to her . 
`` Not exactly , '' replied Margaret , smiling . 
Margaret turned round to walk alongside of the girl in her feeble progress homeward . 
But for a minute or two she did not speak . 
At last she said in a low voice , `` Bessy , do you wish to die ? '' 
For she shrank from death herself , with all the clinging to life so natural to the young and healthy . 
Bessy was silent in her turn for a minute or two . 
Then she replied , `` If yo 'd led the life I have , and getten as weary of it as I have , and thought at times , ` maybe it 'll last for fifty or sixty years -- it does wi ' some , ' -- and got dizzy and dazed , and sick , as each of them sixty years seemed to spin about me , and mock me with its length of hours and minutes , and endless bits o ' time -- oh , wench ! 
`` I had forgotten what I said for the time , '' continued Margaret quietly . 
Bessy gave a quick glance at Margaret 's face , to see if the wish expressed was really felt . 
The sharpness in her eye turned to a wistful longing as she met Margaret 's soft and friendly gaze . 
A great slatternly girl , not so old as Bessy , but taller and stronger , was busy at the wash-tub , knocking about the furniture in a rough capable way , but altogether making so much noise that Margaret shrunk , out of sympathy with poor Bessy , who had sat down on the first chair , as if completely tired out with her walk . 
Margaret asked the sister for a cup of water , and while she ran to fetch it -LRB- knocking down the fire-irons , and tumbling over a chair in her way -RRB- , she unloosed Bessy 's bonnet strings , to relieve her catching breath . 
Margaret did not speak , but held the water to her lips . 
Bessy took a long and feverish draught , and then fell back and shut her eyes . 
Margaret heard her murmur to herself : `` They shall hunger no more , neither thirst any more ; neither shall the sun light on them , nor any heat . '' 
Margaret bent over and said , `` Bessy , do n't be impatient with your life , whatever it is -- or may have been . 
She was startled by hearing Nicholas speak behind her ; he had come in without her noticing him . 
She 's bad enough as it is , with her dreams and her methodee fancies , and her visions of cities with goulden gates and precious stones . 
But if it amuses her I let it abe , but I 'm none going to have more stuff poured into her . '' 
`` But surely , '' said Margaret , facing round , `` you believe in what I said , that God gave her life , and ordered what kind of life it was to be ? '' 
Bessy had been watching Margaret 's face ; she half sate up to speak now , laying her hand on Margaret 's arm with a gesture of entreaty . 
said she , falling back in despair , `` what he says at times makes me long to die more than ever , for I want to know so many things , and am so tossed about wi ' wonder . '' 
But the girl only pleaded the more with Margaret . 
The feverish colour came into her cheek , and the feverish flame into her eye . 
She put her hand to it , and became ghastly pale . 
Margaret held her in her arms , and put the weary head to rest upon her bosom . 
She lifted the thin soft hair from off the temples , and bathed them with water . 
Nicholas understood all her signs for different articles with the quickness of love , and even the round-eyed sister moved with laborious gentleness at Margaret 's `` hush ! '' 
Presently the spasm that fore-shadowed death had passed away , and Bessy roused herself and said , -- `` I 'll go to bed , -- it 's best place ; but , '' catching at Margaret 's gown , `` yo 'll come again , -- I know yo ' will -- but just say it ! '' 
`` I will come to-morrow , '' said Margaret . 
Bessy leant back against her father , who prepared to carry her upstairs ; but as Margaret rose to go , he struggled to say something : `` I could with there were a God , if it were only to ask him to bless thee . '' 
Margaret went away very sad and thoughtful . 
She was late for tea at home . 
At Helstone unpunctuality at meal-times was a great fault in her mother 's eyes ; but now this , as well as many other little irregularities , seemed to have lost their power of irritation , and Margaret almost longed for the old complainings . 
Margaret could hardly smile at this little joke , so oppressed was she by her visit to the Higginses . 
asked his wife , her curiosity aroused . 
`` Why , my paragon pupil -LRB- as Margaret calls him -RRB- , has told me that his mother intends to call on Mrs. and Miss Hale to-morrow . '' 
said Margaret . 
She must be an uncommon person , '' her mother added . 
I fancy Mrs. Thornton is as haughty and proud in her way , as our little Margaret here is in hers , and that she completely ignores that old time of trial , and poverty , and economy , of which he speaks so openly . 
I am sure , at any rate , she would not like strangers to know anything about it . '' 
They cared too little to ask in what manner her son had spoken about her . 
Margaret only wanted to know if she must stay in to receive this call , as it would prevent her going to see how Bessy was , until late in the day , since the early morning was always occupied in household affairs ; and then she recollected that her mother must not be left to have the whole weight of entertaining her visitor . 
She would have been thankful if it had not ; for , as she said , `` she saw no use in making up friendships and intimacies with all the teachers and masters in Milton ; why , he would be wanting her to call on Fanny 's dancing-master 's wife , the next thing ! '' 
Margaret was busy embroidering a small piece of cambric for some little article of dress for Edith 's expected baby -- ` Flimsy , useless work , '' as Mrs. Thornton observed to herself . 
And presently , Margaret , racking her brain to talk to Fanny , heard her mother and Mrs. Thornton plunge into the interminable subject of servants . 
thought Margaret to herself . 
Margaret 's manner had an extra tinge of coldness in it when she next spoke . 
`` Yes , '' said Margaret , `` I have lived there for several years . '' 
`` If it has been Mrs. Thornton 's home for some years , I can well understand her loving it , '' said Margaret , in her clear bell-like voice . 
Margaret had not the words ready for an answer to this question , which took her a little by surprise , so Miss Thornton replied : `` Oh , mamma ! 
Margaret was vexed . 
said Margaret . 
Then she felt that , by concealing her utter indifference to all such places , she was hardly speaking with truth ; so she went on : `` I dare say , papa would have taken me before now if I had cared . 
`` I think I should like to know all about them , if I were you , '' replied Margaret quietly . 
said her mother , as they drove away , `` we will be civil to these Hales : but do n't form one of your hasty friendships with the daughter . 
Margaret flew up stairs as soon as their visitors were gone , and put on her bonnet and shawl , to run and inquire how Betsy Higgins was , and sit with her as long as she could before dinner . 
Margaret did not understand that the lavishness of coals was a sign of hospitable welcome to her on Mary 's part , and thought that perhaps the oppressive heat was necessary for Bessy . 
She was very much more feeble than on the previous day , and tired with raising herself at every step to look out and see if it was Margaret coming . 
And now that Margaret was there , and had taken a chair by her , Bessy lay back silent , and content to look at Margaret 's face , and touch her articles of dress , with a childish admiration of their fineness of texture . 
`` In London , '' said Margaret , much amused . 
`` I like to hear speak of the country , and trees , and such like things , '' She leant back , and shut her eyes , and crossed her hands over her breast , lying at perfect rest , as if to receive all the ideas Margaret could suggest . 
Margaret had never spoken of Helstone since she left it , except just naming the place incidentally She saw it in dreams more vivid than life , and as she fell away to slumber at nights her memory wandered in all its pleasant places . 
But her heart was opened to this girl : `` Oh , Bessy , I loved the home we have left so dearly ! 
`` No , '' said Margaret ; `` nothing but here and there a lark high in the air . 
`` Do n't be afraid , Bessy , '' said Margaret , laying her hand on the girl 's ; `` God can give you more perfect rest than even idleness on earth , or the dead sleep of the grave can do . '' 
Bessy moved uneasily ; then she said : `` I wish father would not speak as he does . 
said she , sitting up , and clutching violently , almost fiercely , at Margaret 's hand , `` I could go mad , and kill yo ' , I could . '' 
She fell back completely worn out with her passion . 
Margaret knelt down by her . 
I know it , '' moaned she , turning her head uneasily from side to side . 
And , '' opening her eyes , and looking earnestly at Margaret , `` I believe , perhaps , more than yo ' do o ' what 's to come . 
said Margaret , inquiringly . 
asked Margaret . 
asked Margaret . 
asked Margaret . 
She thought , more sorrowfully than Bessy did , of the contrast between them . 
She could not speak for a moment or two for the emotion she was trying to keep down . 
`` She could not do '' -- Margaret glanced unconsciously at the uncleaned corners of the room -- `` She could hardly undertake a servant 's place , could she ? 
`` I 'll come as soon as I can , Bessy , '' said Margaret , squeezing her hand tight . 
It was now drawing near to the anniversary of Edith 's marriage , and looking back upon the year 's accumulated heap of troubles , Margaret wondered how they had been borne . 
If she could have anticipated them , how she would have shrunk away and hid herself from the coming time ! 
A year ago , or when she first went to Helstone , and first became silently conscious of the querulousness in her mother 's temper , she would have groaned bitterly over the idea of a long illness to be borne in a strange , desolate , noisy , busy place , with diminished comforts on every side of the home life . 
But with the increase of serious and just ground of complaint , a new kind of patience had sprung up in her mother 's mind . 
She was gentle and quiet in intense bodily suffering , almost in proportion as she had been restless and depressed when there had been no real cause for grief . 
He was more irritated than Margaret had ever known him at his daughter 's expressed anxiety . 
`` Indeed , Margaret , you are growing fanciful ! 
`` But , papa , '' said Margaret , with hesitation , `` do you know , I think that it the flush of pain . '' 
`` Nonsense , Margaret . 
And she went up to him to kiss him . 
But he pushed her away -- gently enough , but still as if she had suggested unpleasant ideas , which he should be glad to get rid of as readily as he could of her presence . 
I shall hate this town , and myself too , if she -- Pray , Margaret , does your mother often talk to you of the old places : of Helstone , I mean ? '' 
`` No , papa , '' said Margaret , sadly . 
`` Then , you see , she ca n't be fretting after them , eh ? 
She never would conceal anything seriously affecting her health from me ; would she , eh , Margaret ? 
I am quite sure she would not . 
But she heard him pacing about -LRB- racooning , as she and Edith used to call it -RRB- long after her slow and languid undressing was finished -- long after she began to listen as she lay in bed . 
It was a comfort to Margaret about this time , to find that her mother drew more tenderly and intimately towards her than she had ever done since the days of her childhood . 
She took her to her heart as a confidential friend -- the post Margaret had always longed to fill , and had envied Dixon for being preferred to . 
Margaret took pains to respond to every call made upon her for sympathy -- and they were many -- even when they bore relation to trifles , which she would no more have noticed or regarded herself than the elephant would perceive the little pin at his feet , which yet he lifts carefully up at the bidding of his keeper . 
All unconsciously Margaret drew near to a reward . 
One evening , Mr. Hale being absent , her mother began to talk to her about her brother Frederick , the very subject on which Margaret had longed to ask questions , and almost the only one on which her timidity overcame her natural openness . 
The more she wanted to hear about him , the less likely she was to speak . 
`` Oh , Margaret , it was so windy last night ! 
I got into a wakeful habit when poor Frederick was at sea ; and now , even if I do n't waken all at once , I dream of him in some stormy sea , with great , clear , glass-green walls of waves on either side his ship , but far higher than her very masts , curling over her with that cruel , terrible white foam , like some gigantic crested serpent . 
`` I ca n't remember the name of the place , but he is not called Hale ; you must remember that , Margaret . 
`` Mamma , '' said Margaret , `` I was at Aunt Shaw 's when it all happened ; and I suppose I was not old enough to be told plainly about it . 
No , '' replied Mrs. Hale , her cheek flushing . 
Or else he did right , Margaret . 
Margaret went . 
Margaret carried them back to her mother , who untied the silken string with trembling fingers , and , examining their dates , she gave them to Margaret to read , making her hurried , anxious remarks on their contents , almost before her daughter could have understood what they were . '' 
`` You see , Margaret , how from the very first he disliked Captain Reid . 
Just read it , Margaret . 
Margaret slowly read the letter , half illegible through the fading of the ink . 
Oh , Margaret ! 
Margaret , I see him now . '' 
said Margaret , leaning up caressingly against her mother 's side , and kissing her hand . 
`` No , you ca n't Margaret . 
I believe , Margaret , I tore it with my teeth . 
`` I think , Margaret , '' she continued , after a pause , in a weak , trembling , exhaused voice , `` I am glad of it -- I am prouder of Frederick standing up against injustice , than if he had been simply a good officer . '' 
`` I am sure I am , '' said Margaret , in a firm , decided tone . 
He was my first baby , Margaret . '' 
But such an idea never crossed Margaret 's mind . 
She was thinking how her mother 's desire could be fulfilled . 
`` Some of the sailors who accompanied Frederick were taken , and there was a court-martial held on them on board the Amicia ; I believed all they said in their defence , poor fellows , because it just agreed with Frederick 's story -- but it was of no use , -- '' and for the first time during the conversation Mrs. Hale began to cry ; yet something possessed Margaret to force the information she foresaw , yet dreaded , from her mother . 
asked she . 
She took hand out of Margaret 's with a little impatient movement , as if she would fain be left alone with the recollection of her son . 
When Mr. Hale came in , Margaret went out , oppressed with gloom , and seeing no promise of brightness on any side of the horizon . 
`` Margaret , '' said her father , the next day , `` we must return Mrs. Thornton 's call . 
As they went , Mr. Hale began about his wife 's health , with a kind of veiled anxiety , which Margaret was glad to see awakened at last . 
`` Did you consult the doctor , Margaret ? 
She put the truth thus plainly and strongly because her father had so completely shut his mind against the idea , when she had last named her fears . 
He answered in a despondent tone : `` Do you think she has any hidden complaint ? 
Do you think she is really very ill ? 
Oh , Margaret ! 
I am haunted by the fear that our coming to Milton has killed her . 
do n't imagine such things , '' said Margaret , shocked . 
Her son 's presence never gave any impression as to the kind of house he lived in ; but , unconsciously , Margaret had imagined that tall , massive , handsomely dressed Mrs. Thornton must live in a house of the same character as herself . 
Margaret only wondered why people who could afford to live in so good a house , and keep it in such perfect order , did not prefer a much smaller dwelling in the country , or even some suburb ; not in the continual whirl and din of the factory . 
Her unaccustomed ears could hardly catch her father 's voice , as they stood on the steps awaiting the opening of the door . 
The yard , too , with the great doors in the dead wall as a boundary , was but a dismal look-out for the sitting-rooms of the house -- as Margaret found when they had mounted the old-fashioned stairs , and been ushered into the drawing-room , the three windows of which went over the front door and the room on the right-hand side of the entrance . 
The whole room had a painfully spotted , spangled , speckled look about it , which impressed Margaret so unpleasantly that she was hardly conscious of the peculiar cleanliness required to keep everything so white and pure in such an atmosphere , or of the trouble that must be willigly expended to secure . 
Wherever she looked there was evidence of care and labour , but not care and labour to procure ease , to help on habits of tranquil home employment ; solely to ornament , and then to preserve ornament from dirt or destruction . 
Margaret explained how it was that her mother could not accompany them to return Mrs. Thornton 's call ; but in her anxiety not to bring back her father 's fears too vividly , she gave but a bungling account , and left the impression on Mrs. Thornton 's mind that Mrs. Hale 's was some temporary or fanciful fine-ladyish indisposition , which might have been put aside had there been a strong enough motive ; or that if it was too severe to allow her to come out that day , the call might have been deferred . 
Remembering , too , the horses to her carriage , hired for her own visit to the Hales , and how Fanny had been ordered to go by Mr. Thornton , in order to pay every respect to them , Mrs. Thornton drew up slightly offended , and gave Margaret no sympathy -- indeed , hardly any credit for the statement of her mother 's indisposition . 
`` But , surely , if the mind is too long directed to one object only , it will get stiff and rigid , and unable to take in many interests , '' said Margaret . 
Her sallow cheek flushed , and her eye lightened , as she answered : `` To hold and maintain a high , honourable place among the merchants of his country -- the men of his town . 
Of course , it is unknown in the fashionable circles , '' she continued , scornfully . 
Both Mr. Hale and Margaret had an uneasy , lndicrous consciousness that they had never heard of this great name , until Mr. Bell had written them word that Mr. Thornton would be a good friend to have in Milton . 
Margaret 's face , in spite of all her endeavours to keep it simply listening in its expression , told the sensitive Mrs. Thornton this feeling of hers . 
`` No , '' said Margaret , with some spirit . 
Margaret hesitated before she replied . 
She did not like this authoritative questioning . 
Was it not , Margaret ? '' 
Margaret replied , `` It was as much from what Mr. Thornton withheld of that which we had been told of his previous life by Mr. Bell , -- it was more that than what he said , that made us all feel what reason you have to be proud of him . '' 
asked Margaret , looking straight at Mrs. Thronton , in bewilderment . 
She smiled a grim smile , for she had been pleased by Margaret 's frankness ; and perhaps she felt that she had been asking questions too much as if she had a right to catechise . 
Margaret laughed outright at the notion presented to her ; laughed so merrily that it grated on Mrs. Thornton 's ear , as if the words that called forth that laugh , must have been utterly and entirely ludicrous . 
Margaret stopped her merriment as soon as she saw Mrs. Thornton 's annoyed look . 
asked Margaret . 
asked Margaret . 
`` I would do my best , '' said Margaret rather pale . 
said Margaret , hastily , holding out her hand to take the note , for she did not wish her mother to hear that they had been making any inquiry about a doctor . 
She was pleased that Mr. Thornton seemed immediately to understand her feeling ; he gave her the note without another word of explanation . 
Mr. Thornton 's face assumed a likeness to his mother 's worst expression , which immediately repelled the watching Margaret . 
`` But why , '' asked she , `` could you not explain what good reason you have for expecting a bad trade ? 
`` A human right , '' said Margaret , very low . 
`` I would rather not repeat it , '' said she ; `` it related to a feeling which I do not think you would share . '' 
pleaded he ; his thoughts suddenly bent upon learning what she had said . 
She was displeased with his pertinacity , but did not choose to affix too much importance to her words . 
He was speaking in a subdued voice , as if to her alone . 
She did not wish to be so exclusively addressed . 
She replied out in her usual tone : `` I do not think that I have any occasion to consider your special religious opinions in the affair . 
`` Thank you , '' she answered , coldly . 
Margaret reddened ; then smiled as she said , `` I am not fond of being catechised . 
Mr. Thornton did not appear to hear what Margaret evidently did not wish him to know . 
This latter part of her sentence she addressed rather to her father than to Mr. Thornton . 
asked Mr. Thornton of himself , with a strange kind of displeasure , that prevented him for the moment from replying to her ! 
Her father took up the conversation . 
`` You never were fond of schools , Margaret , or you would have seen and known before this , how much is being done for education in Milton . '' 
said she , with sudden meekness . 
Margaret did not reply . 
She was displeased at the personal character Mr. Thornton affixed to what she had said . 
Mr. Hale spoke next : `` I must confess that , although I have not become so intimately acquainted with any workmen as Margaret has , I am very much struck by the antagonism between the employer and the employed , on the very surface of things . 
Margaret had just left the room , and he was vexed at the state of feeling between himself and her . 
Margaret had re-entered the room and was sitting at her work ; but she did not speak . 
`` Very lately , '' said Margaret , `` I heard a story of what happened in Nuremberg only three or four years ago . 
`` But , '' said Margaret in a low voice , `` it seems to me that it makes all the difference in the world -- . '' 
Her father made a sign to her to be silent , and allow Mr. Thornton to finish what he had to say . 
`` Not in the least , '' said Margaret , determined just to say this one thing ; `` not in the least because of your labour and capital positions , whatever they are , but because you are a man , dealing with a set of men over whom you have , whether you reject the use of it or not , immense power ; just because your lives and your welfare are so constantly and intimately interwoven . 
And the most isolated of all your Darkshire Egos has dependents clinging to him on all sides ; he can not shake them off , any more than the great rock he resembles can shake off -- '' `` Pray do n't go into similes , Margaret ; you have led us off once already , '' said her father , smiling , yet uneasy at the thought that they were detaining Mr. Thornton against his will , which was a mistake ; for he rather liked it , as long as Margaret would talk , although what she said only irritated him . 
`` That is a great admission , '' said Margaret , laughing . 
`` Cromwell is no hero of mine , '' said she , coldly . 
He reddened at her tone . 
Then , drawing near to Margaret , he said in a lower voice -- `` I spoke hastily to you once this evening , and I am afraid , rather rudely . 
`` Certainly , '' said she , smiling up in his face , the expression of which was somewhat anxious and oppressed , and hardly cleared away as he met her sweet sunny countenance , out of which all the north-wind effect of their discussion had entirely vanished . 
But she did not put out her hand to him , and again he felt the omission , and set it down to pride . 
The mystery that Margaret hoped their late habits of intimacy had broken through , was resumed . 
She was excluded from the room , while Dixon was admitted . 
Margaret was not a ready lover , but where she loved she loved passionately , and with no small degree of jealousy . 
She went into her mother 's bed-room , just behind the drawing-room , and paced it up and down , while awaiting the doctor 's coming out . 
Every now and then she stopped to listen ; she fancied she heard a moan . 
She clenched her hands tight , and held her breath . 
She was sure heard a moan . 
When she heard the door open , she went quickly out of the bed-room . 
She saw , and triumphed over all the obstacles which Dixon threw in her way ; assuming her rightful position as daughter of the house in something of the spirit of the Elder Brother , which quelled the old servant 's officiousness very effectually . 
Margaret 's conscious assumption of this unusual dignity of demeanour towards Dixon , gave her an instant 's amusement in the midst of her anxiety . 
Margaret went very white , and compressed her lips a little more . 
With the quick insight into character , without which no medical man can rise to the eminence of Dr. Donaldson , he saw that she would exact the full truth ; that she would know if one iota was withheld ; and that the withholding would be torture more acute than the knowledge of it . 
He spoke two short sentences in a low voice , watching her all the time ; for the pupils of her eyes dilated into a black horror , and the whiteness of her complexion became livid . 
He waited for that look to go off , -- for her gasping breath to come . 
Then she said : -- `` I thank you most truly , sir , for your confidence . 
her lips began to quiver , and he let her have the relief of tears , sure of her power of self-control to check them . 
A few tears -- those were all she shed , before she recollected the many questions she longed to ask . 
said Margaret , trembling all over . 
Margaret could not speak for crying : but she wrung his hand at parting . 
thought Dr. Donaldson , when he was seated in his carriage , and had time to examine his ringed hand , which had slightly suffered from her pressure . 
Meanwhile , Margaret had returned into her father 's study for a moment , to recover strength before going upstairs into her mother 's presence . 
She ran upstairs . 
Margaret was surprised to see her look so calm . 
`` Why , Margaret , how strange you look ! 
And then , as the idea stole into her mind of what was indeed the real state of the case , she added , as if a little displeased : `` you have not been seeing Dr. Donaldson , and asking him any questions -- have you , child ? '' 
Margaret did not reply -- only looked wistfully towards her . 
`` Margaret , it was very wrong of you . 
But , as if tired with the contest , she left her hand in Margaret 's clasp , and by-and-by she returned the pressure faintly . 
That encouraged Margaret to speak . 
Do you know , Margaret , Dixon and I thought you would quite shrink from me if you knew -- '' `` Dixon thought ! '' 
said Margaret , her lip curling . 
implored she . 
Margaret recovered herself . 
`` And I used to think , how will Margaret bear our makeshift poverty after the through comfort and luxury in Harley Street , till I have many a time been more ashamed of your seeing our contrivances at Helstone than of any stranger finding them out . '' 
`` I shall never see Helstone again , Margaret , '' said Mrs. Hale , the tears welling up into her eyes . 
Margaret could not reply . 
`` You must not talk so , '' said Margaret , impatiently . 
`` He said you might live for years . 
But , Margaret -- Frederick ! '' 
At the mention of that one word , she suddenly cried out loud , as in some sharp agony . 
It seemed as if the thought of him upset all her composure , destroyed the calm , overcame the exhaustion . 
She was in violent hysterics . 
Margaret went and called Dixon in terror . 
Dixon came in a huff , and accused Margaret of having over-excited her mother . 
Margaret bore all meekly , only trusting that her father might not return . 
In spite of her alarm , which was even greater than the occasion warranted , she obeyed all Dixon 's directions promptly and well , without a word of self-justification . 
They put her mother to bed , and Margaret sate by her till she fell asleep , and afterwards till Dixon beckoned her out of the room , and , with a sour face , as if doing something against the grain , she bade her drink a cup of coffee which she had prepared for her in the drawing-room , and stood over her in a commanding attitude as she did so . 
`` No , Dixon , '' said Margaret , sorrowfully , `` I will not tell papa . 
And by way of proving how well she bore it , she burst into tears . 
Miss Margaret my dear , I 've had to keep it down this many a week ; and though I do n't pretend I can love her as you do , yet I loved her better than any other man , woman , or child -- no one but Master Frederick ever came near her in my mind . 
said Margaret , `` how often I 've been cross with you , not knowing what a terrible secret you had to bear ! '' 
`` I will go , '' said Margaret . 
She hung about Dixon for a minute or so , as if afraid and irresolute ; then suddenly kissing her , she went quickly out of the room . 
Margaret went out heavily and unwillingly enough . 
But the length of a street -- yes , the air of a Milton Street -- cheered her young blood before she reached her first turning . 
Her step grew lighter , her lip redder . 
She began to take notice , instead of having her thoughts turned so exclusively inward . 
She saw unusual loiterers in the streets : men with their hands in their pockets sauntering along ; loud-laughing and loud-spoken girls clustered together , apparently excited to high spirits , and a boisterous independence of temper and behaviour . 
Margaret disliked the prospect of the long walk through these streets , before she came to the fields which she had planned to reach . 
Instead , she would go and see Bessy Higgins . 
Nicholas Higgins was sitting by the fire smoking , as she went in . 
Nicholas took the pipe out of his mouth , and standing up , pushed his chair towards Margaret ; he leant against the chimney-piece in a lounging attitude , while she asked Bessy how she was . 
`` This is th ' third strike I 've seen , '' said she , sighing , as if that was answer and explanation enough . 
asked Margaret . 
`` But , '' said Margaret , `` if the people struck , as you call it , where I come from , as they are mostly all field labourers , the seed would not be sown , the hay got in , the corn reaped . '' 
`` Why , '' she went on , `` what would become of the farmers ? '' 
`` There 's a deal to bear there , '' said Margaret . 
`` So I am , '' said Margaret , smiling a little , as she found herself thus caught . 
said Margaret ; `` I think they have too much sense . '' 
`` But all this time you 've not told me what you 're striking for , '' said Margaret , again . 
`` But , '' said Margaret , `` a soldier dies in the cause of the Nation -- in the cause of others . '' 
`` Do n't ask me , '' said Margaret ; `` I am very ignorant . 
`` But , '' said Margaret , determined not to give way , although she saw she was irritating him , `` the state of trade may be such as not to enable them to give you the same remuneration . '' 
said Margaret . 
`` Nay , '' said Margaret , laughing , `` I deny that . 
said Margaret , turning round to her . 
said she , heavily . 
said she , querulously . 
She did not speak for a while , and then so low that only Margaret heard her : `` I reckon , he 'll want a ' the comfort he can get out o ' either pipe or drink afore he 's done . '' 
Her father went out of doors , evidently to finish his pipe . 
asked Margaret . 
`` No -- not to say drink , '' replied she , still in the same wild excited tone . 
`` Come , Bessy , '' said Margaret , `` I wo n't say you 're exaggerating , because I do n't know enough about it : but , perhaps , as you 're not well , you 're only looking on one side , and there is another and a brighter to be looked to . '' 
`` Take care , '' said Margaret , her cheek flushing , and her eye lightening , `` how you judge , Bessy . 
said Margaret . 
`` Ay , '' said she , greedily , `` come . 
Bessy stilled her rocking to gaze after her . 
On Margaret 's return home she found two letters on the table : one was a note for her mother , -- the other , which had come by the post , was evidently from her Aunt Shaw -- covered with foreign postmarks -- thin , silvery , and rustling . 
She took up the other , and was examining it , when her father came in suddenly : `` So your mother is tired , and gone to bed early ! 
Margaret hesitated . 
Her father 's looks became more grave and anxious : `` He does not think her seriously ill ? '' 
-- he did not say this smoky town was doing her any harm , did he , Margaret ? '' 
not a word , '' she replied , gravely . 
Margaret saw , in her father 's nervous ways , that the first impression of possible danger was made upon his mind , in spite of all his making light of what she told him . 
He could not forget the subject , -- could not pass from it to other things ; he kept recurring to it through the evening , with an unwillingness to receive even the slightest unfavourable idea , which made Margaret inexpressibly sad . 
She has got to Naples , and finds it too hot , so she has taken apartments at Sorrento . 
But I do n't think she likes Italy . '' 
Then Margaret went on : `` Aunt Shaw says , she has sent me some coral ornaments , papa ; but , '' added Margaret , half-smiling , `` she is afraid the Milton Dissenters wo n't appreciate them . 
A little rest will put her quite to rights -- eh , Margaret ? '' 
`` I hope so , '' said Margaret , -- but so sadly , that her father took notice of it . 
He pinched her cheek . 
Margaret 's heart ached at his restlessness -- his trying to stifle and strangle the hideous fear that was looming out of the dark places of his heart . 
`` She 's awake now , Margaret . 
She quite smiled as she saw me standing by her . 
Just her old smile . 
And she says she feels refreshed , and ready for tea . 
Where 's the note for her ? 
She wants to see it . 
I 'll read it to her while you make tea . '' 
Margaret was surprised to find an acceptance contemplated , after all she had learnt of sad probabilities during the day . 
The idea of her husband 's and daughter 's going to this dinner had quite captivated Mrs. Hale 's fancy , even before Margaret had heard the contents of the note . 
It was an event to diversify the monotony of the invalid 's life ; and she clung to the idea of their going , with even fretful pertinacity , when Margaret objected . 
`` Nay , Margaret ! 
if she wishes it , I 'm sure we 'll both go willingly . 
She never would wish it unless she felt herself really stronger -- really better than we thought she was , eh , Margaret ? '' 
said Mr. Hale , anxiously , as she prepared to write the note of acceptance , the next day . 
Margaret ? '' 
And besides , his passionate refusal to admit the existence of fear , almost inspired Margaret herself with hope . 
`` I do think she is better since last night , '' said she . 
`` Her eyes look brighter , and her complexion clearer . '' 
`` God bless you , '' said her father earnestly . 
It was a most unlucky day for Dr. Donaldson to see her on . '' 
Margaret , at any rate , must be aware of the exact state of the case . 
Besides , Mrs. Hale had had her vanities as a girl ; had perhaps unduly felt their mortification when she became a poor clergyman 's wife ; -- they had been smothered and kept down ; but they were not extinct ; and she liked to think of seeing Margaret dressed for a party , and discussed what she should wear , with an unsettled anxiety that amused Margaret , who had been more accustomed to society in her one year in Harley Street than her mother in five and twenty years of Helstone . 
Margaret 's manner changed instantly . 
So off Margaret went . 
She was very much inclined to play some pranks when she was dressed up at such an unusual hour ; to make her rich white silk balloon out into a cheese , to retreat backwards from her mother as if she were the queen ; but when she found that these freaks of hers were regarded as interruptions to the serious business , and as such annoyed her mother , she became grave and sedate . 
What had possessed the world -LRB- her world -RRB- to fidget so about her dress , she could not understand ; but that very afternoon , on naming her engagement to Bessy Higgins -LRB- apropos of the servant that Mrs. Thornton had promised to inquire about -RRB- , Bessy quite roused up at the intelligence . 
`` No , '' said Margaret , `` that 's very true . 
said Bessy , with an anxious look at Margaret 's print gown , which her Milton eyes appraised at sevenpence a yard . 
Margaret 's face dimpled up into a merry laugh . 
`` White silk , '' said Margaret . 
said Bessy , falling back in her chair . 
`` Nay , Bessy , '' said Margaret , gently , `` it was but a dream . '' 
Margaret was silent . 
At last she said , `` Let us talk about it sometimes , if you think it true . 
said Bessy , heavily -- in a manner very different from that she had spoken in but a minute or two before . 
said Margaret . 
Margaret got up , and found some water : and soaking her pocket-handkerchief in it , she laid the cool wetness on Bessy 's forehead , and began to chafe the stone-cold feet . 
Bessy shut her eyes , and allowed herself to be soothed . 
At last she said , `` Yo 'd ha ' been deaved out o ' yo ' r five wits , as well as me , if yo 'd had one body after another , coming in to ask for father , and staying to tell me each one their tale . 
asked Margaret . 
Margaret fancied from his manner that he must have been drinking , not so much from what he said , as from the excited way in which he spoke ; and she was rather confirmed in this idea by the evident anxiety Bessy showed to hasten her departure . 
Bessy said to her , -- `` The twenty-first -- that 's Thursday week . 
Before Margaret could answer , Higgins broke out , `` Thornton 's ! 
said Margaret , hastily . 
The medicines and treatment which Dr. Donaldson had ordered for Mrs. Hale , did her so much good at first that not only she herself , but Margaret , began to hope that he might have been mistaken , and that she could recover permanently . 
Only Dixon croaked for ever into Margaret 's ear . 
However , Margaret defied the raven , and would hope . 
Margaret 's whole soul rose up against him while he reasoned in this way -- as if commerce were everything and humanity nothing . 
She could hardly thank him for the individual kindness , which brought him that very evening to offer her -- for the delicacy which made him understand that he must offer her privately -- every convenience for illness that his own wealth or his mother 's foresight had caused them to accumulate in their household , and which , as he learnt from Dr. Donaldson , Mrs. Hale might possibly require . 
His presence , after the way he had spoken -- his bringing before her the doom , which she was vainly trying to persuade herself might yet be averted from her mother -- all conspired to set Margaret 's teeth on edge , as she looked at him , and listened to him . 
He said this more expressly and particularly , on the very day before Mrs. Thornton 's dinner-party , when Margaret , going in to speak to Bessy , found him arguing the point with Boucher , the neighbour of whom she had frequently heard mention , as by turns exciting Higgins 's compassion , as an unskilful workman with a large family depending upon him for support , and at other times enraging his more energetic and sanguine neighbour by his want of what the latter called spirit . 
It was very evident that Higgins was in a passion when Margaret entered . 
Bessy was rocking herself violently backwards and forwards , as was her wont -LRB- Margaret knew by this time -RRB- when she was agitated . 
Her sister Mary was tying on her bonnet -LRB- in great clumsy bows , as suited her great clumsy fingers -RRB- , to go to her fustiancutting , blubbering out loud the while , and evidently longing to be away from a scene that distressed her . 
Margaret came in upon this scene . 
She stood for a moment at the door -- then , her finger on her lips , she stole to a seat on the squab near Bessy . 
Nicholas saw her come in , and greeted her with a gruff , but not unfriendly nod . 
Here the deep sobs choked the poor man , and Nicholas looked up , with eyes brimful of tears , to Margaret , before he could gain courage to speak . 
The man turned round at these words , turned round a face so white , and gaunt , and tear-furrowed , and hopeless , that its very calm forced Margaret to weep . 
Not one word had Margaret or Bessy spoken . 
They had hardly uttered the sighing , that the eyes of each called to the other to bring up from the depths of her heart . 
said Margaret . 
Bessy lay back without taking any notice of what Margaret said . 
She did not cry -- she only quivered up her breath . 
`` My heart 's drained dry o ' tears , '' she said . 
Margaret sat utterly silent . 
How was she ever to go away into comfort and forget that man 's voice , with the tone of unutterable agony , telling more by far than his words of what he had to suffer ? 
She took out her purse ; she had not much in it of what she could call her own , but what she had she put into Bessy 's hand without speaking . 
Bessy seemed almost afraid lest Margaret should think they had not the will , and , to a certain degree , the power of helping one whom she evidently regarded as having a claim upon them . 
`` Besides , '' she went on , `` father is sure and positive the masters must give in within these next few days , -- that they canna hould on much longer . 
As she finished speaking , she looked so faint and weary that Margaret became alarmed . 
Margaret went home so painfully occupied with what she had heard and seen that she hardly knew how to rouse herself up to the duties which awaited her ; the necessity for keeping up a constant flow of cheerful conversation for her mother , who , now that she was unable to go out , always looked to Margaret 's return from the shortest walk as bringing in some news . 
`` She was so ill I never thought of asking her , '' said Margaret , dolefully . 
What could you do for her , Margaret ? 
Would a bottle of that do her good , think you ? '' 
I do n't believe they are very poor , -- at least , they do n't speak as if they were ; and , at any rate , Bessy 's illness is consumption -- she wo n't want wine . 
Perhaps , I might take her a little preserve , made of our dear Helstone fruit . 
exclaimed Margaret , bursting the bounds she had preordained for herself before she came in , and telling her mother of what she had seen and heard at Higgins 's cottage . 
She directed Margaret to pack up a basket in the very drawing-room , to be sent there and then to the family ; and was almost angry with her for saying , that it would not signify if it did not go till morning , as she knew Higgins had provided for their immediate wants , and she herself had left money with Bessy . 
Margaret did not care if their gifts had prolonged the strike ; she did not think far enough for that , in her present excited state . 
He did not find Boucher at home , but he had a long talk with his wife ; promised to ask for an Infirmary order for her ; and , seeing the plenty provided by Mrs. Hale , and somewhat lavishly used by the children , who were masters down-stairs in their father 's absence , he came back with a more consoling and cheerful account than Margaret had dared to hope for ; indeed , what she had said the night before had prepared her father for so much worse a state of things that , by a re-action of his imagination , he described all as better than it really was . 
Still she was so weak that she seemed to have entirely forgotten her wish to see Margaret dressed -- if , indeed , that had not been the feverish desire of a half-delirious state . 
Margaret could not help comparing this strange dressing of hers , to go where she did not care to be -- her heart heavy with various anxieties -- with the old , merry , girlish toilettes that she and Edith had performed scarcely more than a year ago . 
Her only pleasure now in decking herself out was in thinking that her mother would take delight in seeing her dressed . 
She blushed when Dixon , throwing the drawing-room door open , made an appeal for admiration . 
Otherwise , Miss Margaret , you would have been too pale . '' 
Margaret 's black hair was too thick to be plaited ; it needed rather to be twisted round and round , and have its fine silkiness compressed into massive coils , that encircled her head like a crown , and then were gathered into a large spiral knot behind . 
She kept its weight together by two large coral pins , like small arrows for length . 
Her white silk sleeves were looped up with strings of the same material , and on her neck , just below the base of her curved and milk-white throat , there lay heavy coral beads . 
`` Oh , Margaret ! 
Margaret kissed her mother for this little burst of maternal vanity ; but she could hardly smile at it , she felt so much out of spirits . 
Margaret , with her London cultivated taste , felt the number of delicacies to be oppressive ; one half of the quantity would have been enough , and the effect lighter and more elegant . 
Margaret and her father were the first to arrive . 
He shook hands with Margaret . 
He knew it was the first time their hands had met , though she was perfectly unconscious of the fact . 
He inquired after Mrs. Hale , and heard Mr. Hale 's sanguine , hopeful account ; and glancing at Margaret , to understand how far she agreed with her father , he saw that no dissenting shadow crossed her face . 
And as he looked with this intention , he was struck anew with her great beauty . 
He had never seen her in such dress before ; and yet now it appeared as if such elegance of attire was so befitting her noble figure and lofty serenity of countenance , that she ought to go always thus apparelled . 
She was talking to Fanny ; about what , he could not hear ; but he saw his sister 's restless way of continually arranging some part of her gown , her wandering eyes , now glancing here , now there , but without any purpose in her observation ; and he contrasted them uneasily with the large soft eyes that looked forth steadily at one object , as if from out their light beamed some gentle influence of repose : the curving lines of the red lips , just parted in the interest of listening to what her companion said -- the head a little bent forwards , so as to make a long sweeping line from the summit , where the light caught on the glossy raven hair , to the smooth ivory tip of the shoulder ; the round white arms , and taper hands , laid lightly across each other , but perfectly motionless in their pretty attitude . 
Fanny left Margaret 's side , and helped her mother to receive her guests . 
Mr. Thornton felt that in this influx no one was speaking to Margaret , and was restless under this apparent neglect . 
But he never went near her himself ; he did not look at her . 
Only , he knew what she was doing -- or not doing -- better than he knew the movements of any one else in the room . 
Margaret was so unconscious of herself , and so much amused by watching other people , that she never thought whether she was left unnoticed or not . 
Somebody took her down to dinner ; she did not catch the name ; nor did he seem much inclined to talk to her . 
Margaret caught the clue to the general conversation , grew interested and listened attentively . 
Margaret 's attention was thus called to her host ; his whole manner , as master of the house , and entertainer of his friends , was so straightforward , yet simple and modest , as to be thoroughly dignified . 
Margaret thought she had never seen him to so much advantage . 
He had it , and he knew it ; and the security of this gave a fine grand quietness to his voice and ways , which Margaret had missed before . 
To Margaret herself he hardly spoke at all . 
She was surprised to think how much she enjoyed this dinner . 
She knew enough now to understand many local interests -- nay , even some of the technical words employed by the eager millowners . 
She silently took a very decided part in the question they were discussing . 
At any rate they talked in desperate earnest , -- not in the used-up style that wearied her so in the old London parties . 
She wondered that with all this dwelling on the manufactures and trade of the place , no allusion was made to the strike then pending . 
She did not yet know how coolly such things were taken by the masters , as having only one possible end . 
It was rather dull for Margaret after dinner . 
She was glad when the gentlemen came , not merely because she caught her father 's eye to brighten her sleepiness up ; but because she could listen to something larger and grander than the petty interests which the ladies had been talking about . 
She liked the exultation in the sense of power which these Milton men had . 
If in her cooler moments she might not approve of their spirit in all things , still there was much to admire in their forgetfulness of themselves and the present , in their anticipated triumphs over all inanimate matter at some future time which none of them should live to see . 
She was rather startled when Mr. Thornton spoke to her , close at her elbow : `` I could see you were on our side in our discussion at dinner , -- were you not , Miss Hale ? '' 
asked Margaret . 
Margaret thought a moment , -- but before she could speak her slow conviction , he was called away by some of the eager manufacturers , whose speeches she could not hear , though she could guess at their import by the short clear answers Mr. Thornton gave , which came steady and firm as the boom of a distant minute gun . 
She heard Mr. Thornton say : `` That has been done . '' 
Mr. Horsfall took him a little on one side , as Margaret conjectured , to ask him some other question about the strike ; but , in truth , it was to inquire who she herself was -- so quiet , so stately , and so beautiful . 
Margaret and her father walked home . 
The night was fine , the streets clean , and with her pretty white silk , like Leezie Lindsay 's gown o ' green satin , in the ballad , `` kilted up to her knee , '' she was off with her father -- ready to dance along with the excitement of the cool , fresh night air . 
Just the character I should have thought beforehand , you would have admired , Margaret . '' 
You are quite prejudiced against Mr. Thornton , Margaret . '' 
-- Oh , Miss Margaret ! 
She 's better now ; but , oh , sir ! 
I thought she 'd have died an hour ago . '' 
Mr. Hale caught Margaret 's arm to steady himself from falling . 
He looked at her face , and saw an expression upon it of surprise and extremest sorrow , but not the agony of terror that contracted his own unprepared heart . 
She knew more than he did , and yet she listened with that hopeless expression of awed apprehension . 
I should not have left her -- wicked daughter that I am ! '' 
moaned forth Margaret , as she supported her trembling father 's hasty steps up-stairs . 
`` She is better now , '' he whispered . 
Margaret followed close . 
There lay her mother , with an unmistakeable look on her face . 
She might be better now ; she was sleeping , but Death had signed her for his own , and it was clear that ere long he would return to take possession . 
Mr. Hale looked at her for some time without a word . 
said Margaret , with a crying voice that was wild with pain . 
`` Margaret , did you know of this ? 
Dr. Donaldson glanced at Margaret . 
Her bent head , her face raised with no appeal for a temporary reprieve , showed that quick observer of human nature that she thought it better that the whole truth should be told . 
Margaret knelt by him , caressing him with tearful caresses . 
Margaret is my staff -- my right hand . '' 
Mr. Hale was resolved to sit up through the night , and all that Margaret could do was to prevail upon him to rest on the drawing-room sofa . 
Dixon stoutly and bluntly refused to go to bed ; and , as for Margaret , it was simply impossible that she should leave her mother , let all the doctors in the world speak of `` husbanding resources , '' and `` one watcher only being required . '' 
Margaret had taken off her gown and tossed it aside with a sort of impatient disgust , and put on her dressing-gown . 
She felt as if she never could sleep again ; as if her whole senses were acutely vital , and all endued with double keenness , for the purposes of watching . 
For more than two hours , she heard her father 's restless movements in the next room . 
He came perpetually to the door of her mother 's chamber , pausing there to listen , till she , not hearing his close unseen presence , went and opened it to tell him how all went on , in reply to the questions his baked lips could hardly form . 
Margaret sate behind the curtain thinking . 
Not more than thirtysix hours ago , she cared for Bessy Higgins and her father , and her heart was wrung for Boucher ; now , that was all like a dreaming memory of some former life ; -- everything that had passed out of doors seemed dissevered from her mother , and therefore unreal . 
Even Harley Street appeared more distinct ; there she remembered , as if it were yesterday , how she had pleased herself with tracing out her mother 's features in her Aunt Shaw 's face , -- and how letters had come , making her dwell on the thoughts of home with all the longing of love . 
The dull gray days of the preceding winter and spring , so uneventless and monotonous , seemed more associated with what she cared for now above all price . 
She would fain have caught at the skirts of that departing time , and prayed it to return , and give her back what she had too little valued while it was yet in her possession . 
And when the morning dawned , cool and gray , like many a happier morning before -- when Margaret looked one by one at the sleepers , it seemed as if the terrible night were unreal as a dream ; it , too , was a shadow . 
asked Margaret on the third day . 
It is more painful for you to see than for her to bear , I believe . 
Not but what she will be better to-morrow ; pretty much like herself as she was before this attack . 
Still , I should like her to have a water-bed . 
Stay , '' said he , his eye catching on Margaret 's face , blanched with watching in a sick room , `` I 'm not sure whether I can go ; I 've a long round to take . 
`` Certainly , '' said Margaret . 
Mrs. Hale seemed to shake off the consequences of her attack , and looked brighter and better this afternoon than Margaret had ever hoped to see her again . 
Her daughter left her after dinner , sitting in her easy chair , with her hand lying in her husband 's , who looked more worn and suffering than she by far . 
Still he could smile now -- rather slowly , rather faintly , it is true ; but a day or two before , Margaret never thought to see him smile again . 
Margaret went along , without noticing anything very different from usual in the first mile and a half of her journey ; she was absorbed in her own thoughts , and had learnt by this time to thread her way through the irregular stream of human beings that flowed through Milton streets . 
But , by and by , she was struck with an unusual heaving among the mass of people in the crowded road on which she was entering . 
Still , as they made way for her , and , wrapt up in the purpose of her errand , and the necessities that suggested it , she was less quick of observation than she might have been , if her mind had been at ease ; she had got into Marlborough Street before the full conviction forced itself upon her , that there was a restless , oppressive sense of irritation abroad among the people ; a thunderous atmosphere , morally as well as physically , around her . 
Marlborough Street itself was the focus of all those human eyes , that betrayed intensest interest of various kinds ; some fierce with anger , some lowering with relentless threats , some dilated with fear , or imploring entreaty ; and , as Margaret reached the small side entrance by the folding doors in the great dead wall of Marlborough mill-yard , and waited the porter 's answer to the bell , she looked round and heard the first long far-off roll of the tempest ; -- saw the first slow-surging wave of the dark crowd come , with its threatening crest , tumble over , and retreat , at the far end of the street , which a moment ago , seemed so full of repressed noise , but which now was ominously still ; all these circumstances forced themselves on Margaret 's notice , but did not sink down into her pre-occupied heart . 
She did not know what they meant -- what was their deep significance ; while she did know , did feel the keen sharp pressure of the knife that was soon to stab her through and through by leaving her motherless . 
She was trying to realise that , in order that , when it came , she might be ready to comfort her father . 
The porter opened the door cautiously , not nearly wide enough to admit her . 
Margaret went in . 
He hastily bolted it behind her . 
She went across the yard and up the steps to the house door . 
Margaret was shown into the drawing-room . 
The windows were half open because of the heat , and the Venetian blinds covered the glass , -- so that a gray grim light , reflected from the pavement below , threw all the shadows wrong , and combined with the green-tinged upper light to make even Margaret 's own face , as she caught it in the mirrors , look ghastly and wan . 
She sat and waited ; no one came . 
Mrs. Thornton came in with a look of black sternness on her face , which made Margaret feel she had arrived at a bad time to trouble her with her request . 
Mrs. Thornton 's brow contracted , and her mouth grew set , while Margaret spoke with gentle modesty of her mother 's restlessness , and Dr. Donaldson 's wish that she should have the relief of a water-bed . 
She ceased . 
And simultaneously , the gathering tramp -- to which she had been listening , instead of heeding Margaret 's words -- was heard just right outside the wall , and an increasing din of angry voices raged behind the wooden barrier , which shook as if the unseen maddened crowd made battering-rams of their bodies , and retreated a short space only to come with more united steady impetus against it , till their great beats made the strong gates quiver , like reeds before the wind . 
Mrs. Thornton , the women-servants , Margaret , -- all were there . 
Margaret had always dreaded lest her courage should fail her in any emergency , and she should be proved to be , what she dreaded lest she was -- a coward . 
But now , in this real great time of reasonable fear and nearness of terror , she forgot herself , and felt only an intense sympathy -- intense to painfulness -- in the interests of the moment . 
And she went , followed by the others . 
He glanced at Margaret , standing all by herself at the window nearest the factory . 
Her eyes glittered , her colour was deepened on cheek and lip . 
As if she felt his look , she turned to him and asked a question that had been for some time in her mind : `` Where are the poor imported work-people ? 
Margaret shut down her window , and then went to assist Mrs. Thornton 's trembling fingers . 
Margaret 's lips formed a `` No ! '' 
-- but he could not hear her speak , for the tramp of innumerable steps right under the very wall of the house , and the fierce growl of low deep angry voices that had a ferocious murmur of satisfaction in them , more dreadful than their baffled cries not many minutes before . 
said he , thinking to encourage her . 
cried Margaret , suddenly ; `` there is Boucher . 
asked Mr. Thornton , coolly , and coming close to the window to discover the man in whom Margaret took such an interest . 
`` Do n't be afraid for me , '' she said hastily . 
said Margaret quickly . 
`` Mr. Thornton , '' said Margaret , shaking all over with her passion , `` go down this instant , if you are not a coward . 
He turned and looked at her while she spoke . 
He set his teeth as he heard her words . 
I do not know -- I may be wrong -- only -- '' But he was gone ; he was downstairs in the hall ; he had unbarred the front door ; all she could do , was to follow him quickly , and fasten it behind him , and clamber up the stairs again with a sick heart and a dizzy head . 
Again she took her place by the farthest window . 
He was on the steps below ; she saw that by the direction of a thousand angry eyes ; but she could neither see nor hear anything save the savage satisfaction of the rolling angry murmur . 
She threw the window wide open . 
She knew how it was ; they were like Boucher , -- with starving children at home -- relying on ultimate success in their efforts to get higher wages , and enraged beyond measure at discovering that Irishmen were to be brought in to rob their little ones of bread . 
Margaret knew it all ; she read it in Boucher 's face , forlornly desperate and livid with rage . 
She tore her bonnet off ; and bent forwards to hear . 
She could only see ; for if Mr. Thornton had indeed made the attempt to speak , the momentary instinct to listen to him was past and gone , and the people were raging worse than ever . 
Margaret felt intuitively , that in an instant all would be uproar ; the first touch would cause an explosion , in which , among such hundreds of infuriated men and reckless boys , even Mr. Thornton 's life would be unsafe , -- that in another instant the stormy passions would have passed their bounds , and swept away all barriers of reason , or apprehension of consequence . 
Even while she looked , she saw lads in the background stooping to take off their heavy wooden clogs -- the readiest missile they could find ; she saw it was the spark to the gunpowder , and , with a cry , which no one heard , she rushed out of the room , down stairs , -- she had lifted the great iron bar of the door with an imperious force -- had thrown the door open wide -- and was there , in face of that angry sea of men , her eyes smiting them with flaming arrows of reproach . 
For she stood between them and their enemy . 
She could not speak , but held out her arms towards them till she could recover breath . 
He is one man , and you are many ; '' but her words died away , for there was no tone in her voice ; it was but a hoarse whisper . 
Mr. Thornton stood a little on one side ; he had moved away from behind her , as if jealous of anything that should come between him and danger . 
said she , once more -LRB- and now her voice was like a cry -RRB- . 
The hootings rose and filled the air -- but Margaret did not hear them . 
Her eye was on the group of lads who had armed themselves with their clogs some time before . 
She saw their gesture -- she knew its meaning , -- she read their aim . 
Another moment , and Mr. Thornton might be smitten down , -- he whom she had urged and goaded to come to this perilous place . 
She only thought how she could save him . 
She threw her arms around him ; she made her body into a shield from the fierce people beyond . 
Still , with his arms folded , he shook her off . 
said she . 
If she thought her sex would be a protection , -- if , with shrinking eyes she had turned away from the terrible anger of these men , in any hope that ere she looked again they would have paused and reflected , and slunk away , and vanished , she was wrong . 
Margaret 's fascinated eyes watched its progress ; it missed its aim , and she turned sick with affright , but changed not her position , only hid her face on Mr. Thornton 's arm . 
Then she turned and spoke again : `` For God 's sake ! 
She strove to make her words distinct . 
A sharp pebble flew by her , grazing forehead and cheek , and drawing a blinding sheet of light before her eyes . 
She lay like one dead on Mr. Thornton 's shoulder . 
Then he unfolded his arms , and held her encircled in one for an instant : `` You do well ! '' 
The blood-flowing had made Margaret conscious -- dimly , vaguely , conscious . 
He placed her gently on the door-step , her head leaning against the frame . 
But without waiting for her answer , he went slowly down the steps right into the middle of the crowd . 
The moment that retreat had changed into a flight -LRB- as it was sure from its very character to do -RRB- , he darted up the steps to Margaret . 
She tried to rise without his help . 
`` It is nothing , '' she said , with a sickly smile . 
And she cried without restraint . 
He could not sympathise with her . 
While these thoughts crossed his mind , Margaret clung to the doorpost to steady herself : but a film came over her eyes -- he was only just in time to catch her . 
He bore her into the dining-room , and laid her on the sofa there ; laid her down softly , and looking on her pure white face , the sense of what she was to him came upon him so keenly that he spoke it out in his pain : `` Oh , my Margaret -- my Margaret ! 
Oh , Margaret -- Margaret ! '' 
Inarticulately as he spoke , kneeling by her , and rather moaning than saying the words , he started up , ashamed of himself , as his mother came in . 
Mrs. Thornton bathed Margaret 's temples with eau de Cologne . 
As the spirit touched the wound , which till then neither Mrs. Thornton nor Jane had perceived , Margaret opened her eyes ; but it was evident she did not know where she was , nor who they were . 
The dark circles deepened , the lips quivered and contracted , and she became insensible once more . 
Margaret did indeed look white and wan , although her senses were beginning to return to her . 
But the sickly daze of the swoon made her still miserably faint . 
She was conscious of movement around her , and of refreshment from the eau de Cologne , and a craving for the bathing to go on without intermission ; but when they stopped to talk , she could no more have opened her eyes , or spoken to ask for more bathing , than the people who lie in death-like trance can move , or utter sound , to arrest the awful preparations for their burial , while they are yet fully aware , not merely of the actions of those around them , but of the idea that is the motive for such actions . 
said Fanny , drawing nearer by slow degrees , as she became accustomed to the sight of Margaret 's pale face . 
as Margaret opened her filmy eyes , and gazed dreamily at her . 
Margaret tried to rise , and drew her ruffled , luxuriant hair instinctly over the cut . 
`` I am better now , '' said she , in a very low , faint voice . 
She let him take her hand and feel her pulse . 
The bright colour came for a moment into her face , when he asked to examine the wound in her forehead : and she glanced up at Jane , as if shrinking from her inspection more than from the doctor 's . 
She sat down hastily , without another word , and allowed it to be bound up . 
`` Now , if you please , '' said she , `` I must go . 
`` I must , '' said Margaret , decidedly . 
If they should hear -- Besides I must go , '' said she , vehemently . 
The air -- getting away , would do me more good than anything , '' pleaded she . 
said Margaret . 
She leant back on the sofa , and closed her eyes . 
Fanny beckoned her mother out of the room , and told her something that made her equally anxious with Margaret for the departure of the latter . 
Not that she fully believed Fanny 's statement ; but she credited enough to make her manner to Margaret appear very much constrained at wishing her good-bye . 
Margaret 's thoughts were quite alive enough to the present to make her desirous of getting rid of both Mr. Lowe and the cab before she reached Crampton Crescent , for fear of alarming her father and mother . 
Beyond that one aim she would not look . 
That ugly dream of insolent words spoken about herself , could never be forgotten -- but could be put aside till she was stronger -- for , oh ! 
she was very weak ; and her mind sought for some present fact to steady itself upon , and keep it from utterly losing consciousness in another hideous , sickly swoon . 
Margaret had not been gone five minute when Mr. Thornton came in , his face all a-glow . 
He glanced sharply at her ; saw that she did not know what had passed between him and Margaret in the drawing-room ; and replied by another question : `` Shall you be afraid to be left without me , until I can get some of the police ; or had we better send Williams for them now , and they could be here by the time we have done tea ? 
Mr. Thornton remained in the dining-room , trying to think of the business he had to do at the police-office , and in reality thinking of Margaret . 
Everything seemed dim and vague beyond -- behind -- besides the touch of her arms round his neck -- the soft clinging which made the dark colour come and go in his cheek as he thought of it . 
The question came upon her suddenly , during a pause in which she , at least , had forgotten Margaret . 
She looked up at him . 
`` But , mother , '' continued he , stopping short in his walk right in front of her , `` I dare not hope . 
Margaret entered the room -LRB- where her father and mother still sat , holding low conversation together -RRB- , looking very pale and white . 
She came close up to them before she could trust herself to speak . 
Is it very hot , Margaret ? '' 
Margaret 's colour came back vivid and bright as ever ; but it faded away instantly . 
`` Here has been a message from Bessy Higgins , asking you to go to her , '' said Mrs. Hale . 
said Margaret . 
She was very silent and trembling while she made tea . 
She was thankful to see her father so much occupied with her mother as not to notice her looks . 
Even after her mother went to bed , he was not content to be absent from her , but undertook to read her to sleep . 
Margaret was alone . 
She sat still in her chair , her hands clasped on her knees , her lips compressed , her eyes fixed as one who sees a vision . 
She drew a deep breath . 
But this was over-leaping the rational conclusion , -- as in an instant her well-poised judgment felt . 
said she , clenching her hands together , `` it is no wonder those people thought I was in love with him , after disgracing myself in that way . 
Her pale cheeks suddenly became one flame of fire ; and she covered her face with her hands . 
When she took them away , her palms were wet with scalding tears . 
It was not fair , '' said she , vehemently , `` that he should stand there -- sheltered , awaiting the soldiers , who might catch those poor maddened creatures as in a trap -- without an effort on his part , to bring them to reason . 
She looked up , and a noble peace seemed to descend and calm her face , till it was `` stiller than chiselled marble . '' 
Dixon came in : `` If you please , Miss Margaret , here 's the water-bed from Mrs. Thornton 's . 
`` Very , '' said Margaret . 
`` If you please , Miss Margaret , he says he 's to ask particular how you are . 
said Margaret , drawing herself up . 
But her complexion was as deadly white as her handkerchief ; and her head ached intensely . 
He had left his sleeping wife ; and wanted , as Margaret saw , to be amused and interested by something that she was to tell him . 
With sweet patience did she bear her pain , without a word of complaint ; and rummaged up numberless small subjects for conversation -- all except the riot , and that she never named once . 
It turned her sick to think of it . 
`` Good-night , Margaret . 
She let her colour go -- the forced smile fade away -- the eyes grow dull with heavy pain . 
She released her strong will from its laborious task . 
Till morning she might feel ill and weary . 
She lay down and never stirred . 
She was so tired , so stunned , that she thought she never slept at all ; her feverish thoughts passed and repassed the boundary between sleeping and waking , and kept their own miserable identity . 
She could not be alone , prostrate , powerless as she was , -- a cloud of faces looked up at her , giving her no idea of fierce vivid anger , or of personal danger , but a deep sense of shame that she should thus be the object of universal regard -- a sense of shame so acute that it seemed as if she would fain have burrowed into the earth to hide herself , and yet she could not escape out of that unwinking glare of many eyes . 
The next morning , Margaret dragged herself up , thankful that the night was over , -- unrefreshed , yet rested . 
All had gone well through the house ; her mother had only wakened once . 
A little breeze was stirring in the hot air , and though there were no trees to show the playful tossing movement caused by the wind among the leaves , Margaret knew how , somewhere or another , by wayside , in copses , or in thick green woods , there was a pleasant , murmuring dancing sound , -- a rushing and falling noise , the very thought of which was an echo of distant gladness in her heart . 
She sat at her work in Mrs. Hale 's room . 
As soon as that forenoon slumber was over , she would help her mother to dress ; after dinner , she would go and see Bessy Higgins . 
She would banish all recollection of the Thornton family , -- no need to think of them till they absolutely stood before her in flesh and blood . 
But , of course , the effort not to think of them brought them only the more strongly before her ; and from time to time , the hot flush came over her pale face sweeping it into colour , as a sunbeam from between watery clouds comes swiftly moving over the sea . 
Dixon opened the door very softly , and stole on tiptoe up to Margaret , sitting by the shaded window . 
`` Mr. Thornton , Miss Margaret . 
Margaret dropped her sewing . 
`` Very well , I will come , '' said Margaret , quietly . 
But she lingered strangely . 
His heart beat thick at the thought of her coming . 
He could not forget the touch of her arms around his neck , impatiently felt as it had been at the time ; but now the recollection of her clinging defence of him , seemed to thrill him through and through , -- to melt away every resolution , all power of self-control , as if it were wax before a fire . 
He dreaded lest he should go forwards to meet her , with his arms held out in mute entreaty that she would come and nestle there , as she had done , all unheeded , the day before , but never unheeded again . 
She might droop , and flush , and flutter to his arms , as to her natural home and resting-place . 
One moment , he glowed with impatience at the thought that she might do this , -- the next , he feared a passionate rejection , the very idea of which withered up his future with so deadly a blight that he refused to think of it . 
She had come in so gently , that he had never heard her ; the street noises had been more distinct to his inattentive ear than her slow movements , in her soft muslin gown . 
She stood by the table , not offering to sit down . 
Her eyelids were dropped half over her eyes ; her teeth were shut , not compressed ; her lips were just parted over them , allowing the white line to be seen between their curve . 
Her slow deep breathings dilated her thin and beautiful nostrils ; it was the only motion visible on her countenance . 
The fine-grained skin , the oval cheek , the rich outline of her mouth , its corners deep set in dimples , -- were all wan and pale to-day ; the loss of their usual natural healthy colour being made more evident by the heavy shadow of the dark hair , brought down upon the temples , to hide all sign of the blow she had received . 
Her head , for all its drooping eyes , was thrown a little back , in the old proud attitude . 
Her long arms hung motionless by her sides . 
Altogether she looked like some prisoner , falsely accused of a crime that she loathed and despised , and from which she was too indignant to justify herself . 
Mr. Thornton made a hasty step or two forwards ; recovered himself , and went with quiet firmness to the door -LRB- which she had left open -RRB- , and shut it . 
Then he came back , and stood opposite to her for a moment , receiving the general impression of her beautiful presence , before he dared to disturb it , perhaps to repel it , by what he had to say . 
`` Miss Hale , I was very ungrateful yesterday -- '' `` You had nothing to be grateful for , '' said she , raising her eyes , and looking full and straight at him . 
In spite of herself -- in defiance of her anger -- the thick blushes came all over her face , and burnt into her very eyes ; which fell not nevertheless from their grave and steady look . 
I ought rather , '' said she , hastily , `` to apologise to you , for having said thoughtless words which sent you down into the danger . '' 
`` I do not try to escape from anything , '' said she . 
`` I do not want to be relieved from any obligation , '' said he , goaded by her calm manner . 
continued he , lowering his voice to such a tender intensity of passion that she shivered and trembled before him , `` to think circumstance so wrought , that whenever I exult in existence henceforward , I may say to myself , ` All this gladness in life , all honest pride in doing my work in the world , all this keen sense of being , I owe to her ! ' 
He held her hand tight in his . 
He threw the hand away with indignation , as he heard her icy tone ; for icy it was , though the words came faltering out , as if she knew not where to find them . 
said she , with recovered dignity . 
a gentleman , '' she repeated in allusion to their former conversation about that word , `` that any woman , worthy of the name of woman , would come forward to shield , with her reverenced helplessness , a man in danger from the violence of numbers . '' 
`` And I yielded to the right ; simply saying that you gave me pain by insisting upon it , '' she replied , proudly . 
`` But you seem to have imagined , that I was not merely guided by womanly instinct , but '' -- and here the passionate tears -LRB- kept down for long -- struggled with vehemently -RRB- came up into her eyes , and choked her voice -- `` but that I was prompted by some particular feeling for you -- you ! 
`` I do not care to understand , '' she replied , taking hold of the table to steady herself ; for she thought him cruel -- as , indeed , he was -- and she was weak with her indignation . 
Margaret compressed her lips . 
She would not speak in answer to such accusations . 
But , for all that -- for all his savage words , he could have thrown himself at her feet , and kissed the hem of her garment . 
She did not speak ; she did not move . 
He waited awhile , longing for her to say something , even a taunt , to which he might reply . 
But she was silent . 
`` I am not afraid , '' she replied , lifting herself straight up . 
But , Mr. Thornton , you have been very kind to my father , '' said she , changing her whole tone and bearing to a most womanly softness . 
He took no notice of her words : he occupied himself in smoothing the nap of his hat with his coat-sleeve , for half a minute or so ; and then , rejecting her offered hand , and making as if he did not see her grave look of regret , he turned abruptly away , and left the room . 
Margaret caught one glance at his face before he went . 
When he was gone , she thought she had seen the gleam of unshed tears in his eyes ; and that turned her proud dislike into something different and kinder , if nearly as painful -- self reproach for having caused such mortification to any one . 
asked she of herself . 
Margaret began to wonder whether all offers were as unexpected beforehand , -- as distressing at the time of their occurrence , as the two she had had . 
An involuntary comparison between Mr. Lennox and Mr. Thornton arose in her mind . 
She had been sorry , that an expression of any other feeling than friendship had been lured out by circumstances from Henry Lennox . 
That regret was the predominant feeling , on the first occasion of her receiving a proposal . 
She had not felt so stunned -- so impressed as she did now , when echoes of Mr. Thornton 's voice yet lingered about the room . 
In Lennox 's case , he seemed for a moment to have slid over the boundary between friendship and love ; and the instant afterwards , to regret it nearly as much as she did , although for different reasons . 
In Mr. Thornton 's case , as far as Margaret knew , there was no intervening stage of friendship . 
Their opinions clashed ; and indeed , she had never perceived that he had cared for her opinions , as belonging to her , the individual . 
As far as they defied his rock-like power of character , his passion-strength , he seemed to throw them off from him with contempt , until she felt the weariness of the exertion of making useless protests ; and now , he had come , in this strange wild passionate way , to make known his love ! 
For , although at first it had struck her , that his offer was forced and goaded out of him by sharp compassion for the exposure she had made of herself , -- which he , like others , might misunderstand -- yet , even before he left the room , -- and certainly , not five minutes after , the clear conviction dawned upon her , shined bright upon her , that he did love her ; that he had loved her ; that he would love her . 
And she shrank and shuddered as under the fascination of some great power , repugnant to her whole previous life . 
She crept away , and hid from his idea . 
She disliked him the more for having mastered her inner will . 
How dared he say that he would love her still , even though she shook him off with contempt ? 
She wished she had spoken more -- stronger . 
Sharp , decisive speeches came thronging into her mind , now that it was too late to utter them . 
Margaret would not be alone . 
What should she do ? 
`` Go and see Bessy Higgins , of course , '' thought she , as the recollection of the message sent the night before flashed into her mind . 
And away she went . 
When she got there , she found Bessy lying on the settle , moved close to the fire , though the day was sultry and oppressive . 
She was laid down quite that , as if resting languidly after some paroxysm of pain . 
Margaret felt sure she ought to have the greater freedom of breathing which a more sitting posture would procure ; and , without a word , she raised her up , and so arranged the pillows , that Bessy was more at ease , though very languid . 
`` I thought I should na ' ha ' seen yo ' again , '' said she , at last , looking wistfully in Margaret 's face . 
But I could not have come yesterday , my mother was so ill -- for many reasons , '' said Margaret , colouring . 
Margaret began . 
If , by an effort , she attended for one moment , it seemed as though she were convulsed into double restlessness the next . 
At last , she burst out : `` Do n't go on reading . 
said Margaret , colouring deep . 
asked Margaret . 
For , '' dropping her voice , `` they do say , that Boucher threw a stone at Thornton 's sister , that welly killed her . '' 
`` That 's not true , '' said Margaret . 
`` It was not Boucher that threw the stone '' -- she went first red , then white . 
asked Bessy languidly : for indeed she had spoken with many pauses , as if speech was unusually difficult to her . 
Margaret read in her soft low voice . 
Though Bessy 's eyes were shut , she was listening for some time , for the moisture of tears gathered heavy on her eyelashes . 
At last she slept ; with many starts , and muttered pleadings . 
Margaret covered her up , and left her , for she had an uneasy consciousness that she might be wanted at home , and yet , until now , it seemed cruel to leave the dying girl . 
Now , Margaret , you 're young enough , and go about in the day ; are the beds comfortable ? 
Margaret laughed . 
Your poor father , Margaret . 
`` Why , Margaret , you must not be hurt , but he was much prettier than you were . 
Then I could have had Fred in my arms every minute of the day , and his cot was close by my bed ; and now , now -- Margaret -- I do n't know where my boy is , and sometimes I think I shall never see him again . '' 
Margaret sat down by her mother 's sofa on a little stool , and softly took hold of her hand , caressing it and kissing it , as if to comfort . 
At last , she sat straight , stiff up on the sofa , and turning round to her daughter , she said with tearful , almost solemn earnestness , `` Margaret , if I can get better , -- if God lets me have a chance of recovery , it must be through seeing my son Frederick once more . 
`` And , Margaret , if I am to die -- if I am one of those appointed to die before many weeks are over -- I must see my child first . 
I can not think how it must be managed ; but I charge you , Margaret , as you yourself hope for comfort in your last illness , bring him to me that I may bless him . 
Only for five minutes , Margaret . 
Oh , Margaret , let me see him before I die ! '' 
Margaret did not think of anything that might be utterly unreasonable in this speech : we do not look for reason or logic in the passionate entreaties of those who are sick unto death ; we are stung with the recollection of a thousand slighted opportunities of fulfilling the wishes of those who will soon pass away from among us : and do they ask us for the future happiness of our lives , we lay it at their feet , and will it away from us . 
But this wish of Mrs. Hale 's was so natural , so just , so right to both parties , that Margaret felt as if , on Frederick 's account as well as on her mother 's , she ought to overlook all intermediate chances of danger , and pledge herself to do everything in her power for its realisation . 
The large , pleading , dilated eyes were fixed upon her wistfully , steady in their gaze , though the poor white lips quivered like those of a child . 
Margaret gently rose up and stood opposite to her frail mother ; so that she might gather the secure fulfilment of her wish from the calm steadiness of her daughter 's face . 
Oh , Margaret ! 
Do you mean that he would deny me this last wish , Margaret ? 
said Margaret . 
And , indeed , Margaret , the longing to see Frederick stands between me and God . 
Do n't lose time , dear , dear Margaret . 
She fell back , and for a short time she took no notice of the fact that Margaret sat motionless , her hand shading her eyes . 
said her mother at last . 
She sat up , trembling all over with feverish eagerness . 
Margaret took her hand down and looked at her mother sadly . 
`` You promised , Margaret , not a quarter of an hour ago ; -- you said he should come . '' 
Mrs. Hale could not stop her tears ; they came hysterically ; and , in truth , she made no effort to control them , but rather called up all the pictures of the happy past , and the probable future -- painting the scene when she should lie a corpse , with the son she had longed to see in life weeping over her , and she unconscious of his presence -- till she was melted by self-pity into a state of sobbing and exhaustion that made Margaret 's heart ache . 
But at last she was calm , and greedily watched her daughter , as she began her letter ; wrote it with swift urgent entreaty ; sealed it up hurriedly , for fear her mother should ask to see it : and then , to make security most sure , at Mrs. Hale 's own bidding , took it herself to the post-office . 
Then he said : `` You should have waited till I came in , Margaret . '' 
`` I tried to persuade her -- '' and then she was silent . 
`` She ought to see him if she wishes it so much , for I believe it would do her much more good than all the doctor 's medicine , -- and , perhaps , set her up altogether ! 
Nay , Margaret , I 'm glad it is done , though I durst not have done it myself . 
Dear Margaret , you have done what is right about it ; and the end is beyond our control . '' 
It was all very well ; but her father 's account of the relentless manner in which mutinies were punished made Margaret shiver and creep . 
If she had decoyed her brother home to blot out the memory of his error by his blood ! 
She saw her father 's anxiety lay deeper than the source of his latter cheering words . 
She took his arm and walked home pensively and wearily by his side . 
He was as dizzy as if Margaret , instead of looking , and speaking , and moving like a tender graceful woman , had been a sturdy fish-wife , and given him a sound blow with her fists . 
He said to himself , that he hated Margaret , but a wild , sharp sensation of love cleft his dull , thunderous feeling like lightining , even as he shaped the words expressive of hatred . 
His greatest comfort was in hugging his torment ; and in feeling , as he had indeed said to her , that though she might despise him , contemn him , treat him with her proud sovereign indifference , he did not change one whit . 
She could not make him change . 
He loved her , and would love her ; and defy her , and this miserable bodily pain . 
All that he gained in return for his sixpenny omnibus ride , was a more vivid conviction that there never was , never could be , any one like Margaret ; that she did not love him and never would ; but that she -- no ! 
nor the whole world -- should never hinder him from loving her . 
And Margaret 's name was no more mentioned between Mrs. Thornton and her son . 
Margaret was working on a low stool by her mother 's side . 
Her heart fluttered , if his did not , at this interview . 
But he took no notice of her , -- hardly of Mr. Hale himself ; he went up straight with his basket to Mrs. Hale , and said , in that subdued and gentle tone , which is so touching when used by a robust man in full health , speaking to a feeble invalid , -- `` I met Dr. Donaldson , ma'am , and as he said fruit would be good for you , I have taken the liberty -- the great liberty -- of bringing you some that seemed to me fine . '' 
`` Fetch a plate , Margaret -- a basket -- anything . '' 
Margaret stood up by the table , half afraid of moving or making any noise to arouse Mr. Thornton into a consciousness of her being in the room . 
She thought it would be awkward for both to be brought into conscious collision ; and fancied that , from her being on a low seat at first , and now standing behind her father , he had overlooked her in his haste . 
As if he did not feel the consciousness of her presence all over , though his eyes had never rested on her ! 
Not one word : not one look to Margaret . 
She believed that he had not seen her . 
She went for a plate in silence , and lifted the fruit out tenderly , with the points of her delicate taper fingers . 
Margaret love , only taste these grapes ! 
said Margaret , quietly . 
`` Margaret ! '' 
Do you remember the matted-up currant bushes , Margaret , at the corner of the west-wall at the garden at home ? '' 
At last Dixon found what she wanted ; what it was Margaret could not see . 
let me find one , '' said Margaret , in the midst of her tears . 
said Margaret , turning a little pale . 
`` I will go down and speak to her , '' said Margaret , afraid lest Dixon 's harshness of manner might wound the poor girl . 
Mary 's face was all swollen with crying , and she burst out afresh when she saw Margaret . 
And for a long time , Margaret could not get her to say anything more than this . 
At last , her sympathy , and Dixon 's scolding , forced out a few facts . 
Margaret shrank a little from answering . 
The girl looked wistfully at Margaret . 
said Margaret with decision . 
And for fear of her own cowardice , she went away , in order to take from herself any chance of changing her determination . 
That afternoon she walked swiftly to the Higgins 's house . 
Margaret smiled into her eyes to re-assure her . 
Then Margaret was glad that she had come . 
The slow tears gathered into Margaret 's eyes , but a deep calm entered into her soul . 
All beautiful scriptures came into her mind . 
Slowly , slowly Margaret turned away from the bed . 
Resting his hand upon the house-table , Nicholas Higgins stood in the midst of the floor ; his great eyes startled open by the news he had heard , as he came along the court , from many busy tongues . 
Margaret felt as if she had no business to be there , familiarly acquainting herself with the surroundings of death which he , the father had only just learnt . 
There had been a pause of an instant on the steep crooked stair , when she first saw him ; but now she tried to steal past his abstracted gaze , and to leave him in the solemn circle of his household misery . 
He took sudden hold of Margaret 's arm , and held her till he could gather words to speak . 
replied Margaret , standing still with the utmost patience , now she found herself perceived . 
It was some time before he spoke again , but he kept his hold on her arm . 
`` All men must die , '' said he at last , with a strange sort of gravity , which first suggested to Margaret the idea that he had been drinking -- not enough to intoxicate himself , but enough to make his thoughts bewildered . 
Still he pondered over the event , not looking at Margaret , though he grasped her tight . 
Suddenly , he looked up at her with a wild searching inquiry in his glance . 
`` She is dead , '' replied Margaret . 
She felt no fear in speaking to him , though he hurt her arm with his gripe , and wild gleams came across the stupidity of his eyes . 
she said . 
He looked at her still with that searching look , which seemed to fade out of his eyes as he gazed . 
Then he suddenly let go his hold of Margaret , and , throwing his body half across the table , he shook it and every piece of furniture in the room , with his violent sobs . 
Margaret took her hand , and held it softly in hers . 
Still his daughter and Margaret did not move . 
But Margaret stood in the doorway , silent yet commanding . 
He looked up at her defyingly . 
He had shaken off Mary with violence ; he looked ready to strike Margaret . 
But she never moved a feature -- never took her deep , serious eyes off him . 
He stared back on her with gloomy fierceness . 
If she had stirred hand or foot , he would have thrust her aside with even more violence than he had used to his won daughter , whose face was bleeding from her fall against a chair . 
Margaret felt that he acknowledged her power . 
What could she do next ? 
He had seated himself on a chair , close to the door ; half-conquered , half-resenting ; intending to go out as soon as she left her position , but unwilling to use the violence he had threatened not five minutes before . 
Margaret laid her hand on his arm . 
`` Come with me , '' she said . 
The voice in which she spoke was very low and solemn ; but there was no fear or doubt expressed in it , either of him or of his compliance . 
She waited him there ; quietly and patiently waited for his time to move . 
He had a strange pleassure in making her wait ; but at last he moved towards the stairs . 
She and he stood by the corpse . 
`` No , '' said Margaret , softening with his softened manner . 
He shook his head , glancing sideways up at Margaret as he did so . 
His pale , haggard face struck her painfully . 
`` I am sure , '' said Margaret , `` I am sure you did not know : it was quite sudden . 
`` Come home with me , '' said she at last , with a bold venture , half trembling at her own proposal as she made it . 
`` He was , '' said Margaret , shortly . 
Margaret was perplexed ; his drinking tea with her father , who would be totally unprepared for his visitor -- her mother so ill -- seemed utterly out of the question ; and yet if she drew back now , it would be worse than ever -- sure to drive him to the ginshop . 
She thought that if she could only get him to their own house , it was so great a step gained that she would trust to the chapter of accidents for the next . 
He stooped down and fondly kissed his daughter ; covered up her face , and turned to follow Margaret . 
She had hastily gone down stairs to tell Mary of the arrangement ; to say it was the only way she could think of to keep him from the gin-palace ; to urge Mary to come too , for her heart smote her at the idea of leaving the poor affectionate girl alone . 
But he slouched his cap low down over his brow as he went out into the street , and looked neither to the right nor to the left , while he tramped along by Margaret 's side ; he feared being upset by the words , still more the looks , of sympathising neighbours . 
So he and Margaret walked in silence . 
As he got near the street in which he knew she lived , he looked down at his clothes , his hands , and shoes . 
It certainly would have been desirable , but Margaret assured him he should be allowed to go into the yard , and have soap and towel provided ; she could not let him slip out of her hands just then . 
While he followed the house-servant along the passage , and through the kitchen , stepping cautiously on every dark mark in the pattern of the oil-cloth , in order to conceal his dirty foot-prints , Margaret ran upstairs . 
She met Dixon on the landing . 
Margaret went in half breathless with the hurried story she had to tell . 
Of course , she told it incompletely ; and her father was rather `` taken aback '' by the idea of the drunken weaver awaiting him in his quiet study , with whom he was expected to drink tea , and on whose behalf Margaret was anxiously pleading . 
The meek , kind-hearted Mr. Hale would have readily tried to console him in his grief , but , unluckily , the point Margaret dwelt upon most forcibly was the fact of his having been drinking , and her having brought him home with her as a last expedient to keep him from the ginshop . 
One little event had come out of another so naturally that Margaret was hardly conscious of what she had done , till she saw the slight look of repugnance on her father 's face . 
`` But , Margaret , to bring a drunken man home -- and your mother so ill ! '' 
Margaret 's countenance fell . 
Margaret 's eyes filled with tears . 
Mr. Hale took hold of her sweet pleading face in both his hands , and kissed her forehead . 
But as Mr. Hale was leaving the room , she ran after him : `` Papa -- you must not wonder at what he says : he 's an -- I mean he does not believe in much of what we do . '' 
But to Margaret he only said , `` If your mother goes to sleep , be sure you come directly . '' 
Margaret went into her mother 's room . 
`` When did you write to Frederick , Margaret ? 
`` Oh , Margaret , I 'm so afraid of his coming ! 
Would it be too late to stop him if you wrote again , Margaret ? '' 
`` I 'm afraid it would , mamma , '' said Margaret , remembering the urgency with which she had entreated him to come directly , if he wished to see his mother alive . 
Margaret was silent . 
And I 'm glad Miss Margaret wrote off straight , without shilly-shallying . 
Mrs. Hale did trust in Dixon more than in Margaret . 
Margaret poured out the tea in silence , trying to think of something agreeable to say ; but her thoughts made answer something like Daniel O'Rourke , when the man-in-the-moon asked him to get off his reaping-hook . 
The more she tried to think of something -- anything besides the danger to which Frederick would be exposed -- the more closely her imagination clung to the unfortunate idea presented to her . 
Her mother prattled with Dixon , and seemed to have utterly forgotten the possibility of Frederick being tried and executed -- utterly forgotten that at her wish , if by Margaret 's deed , he was summoned into this danger . 
Her mother was one of those who throw out terrible possibilities , miserable probabilities , unfortunate chances of all kinds , as a rocket throws out sparks ; but if the sparks light on some combustible matter , they smoulder first , and burst out into a frightful flame at last . 
Margaret was glad when , her filial duties gently and carefully performed , she could go down into the study . 
She wondered how her father and Higgins had got on . 
Margaret was a little surprised , and very much pleased , when she found her father and Higgins in earnest conversation -- each speaking with gentle politeness to the other , however their opinions might clash . 
Nicholas -- clean , tidied -LRB- if only at the pumptrough -RRB- , and quiet spoken -- was a new creature to her , who had only seen him in the rough independence of his own hearthstone . 
He had `` slicked '' his hair down with the fresh water ; he had adjusted his neck-handkerchief , and borrowed an odd candle-end to polish his clogs with ; and there he sat , enforcing some opinion on her father , with a strong Darkshire accent , it is true , but with a lowered voice , and a good , earnest composure on his face . 
Her father , too , was interested in what his companion was saying . 
He looked round as she came in , smiled , and quietly gave her his chair , and then sat down afresh as quickly as possible , and with a little bow of apology to his guest for the interruption . 
Higgins nodded to her as a sign of greeting ; and she softly adjusted her working materials on the table , and prepared to listen . 
Margaret started to her feet , -- for she thought , by the working of his face , he was going into convulsions . 
Mr. Hale looked at her dismayed . 
It 's a ' very well for happy folk '' -- Margaret touched his arm very softly . 
She had not spoken before , nor had he heard her rise . 
He turned round and caught her hand . 
`` He 's not an infidel , Margaret ; how could you say so ? '' 
`` And so the strike is at an end , '' said Margaret . 
asked Margaret , `` You 're a famous workman , are not you ? '' 
Margaret was slienced and sad . 
`` Mr. Thornton was right , '' said Margaret . 
`` My daughter is no great friend of Mr. Thornton 's , '' said Mr. Hale , smiling at Margaret ; while she , as red as any carnation , began to work with double diligence , `` but I believe what she says is the truth . 
said Margaret . 
Not so Margaret , though she saw Higgins 's feeling as clearly as he did . 
By instinct she felt , that if he could but be brought to express himself in plain words , something clear would be gained on which to argue for the right and the just . 
He looked up at her , as if on the point of dogged resistance to her wish for information . 
But her calm face , fixed on his , patient and trustful , compelled him to answer . 
said Margaret , `` what tyranny this is ! 
said Margaret very softly . 
He understood her , and took her offered hand . 
Higgins looked at Margaret , doubtfully . 
Her grave sweet eyes met his ; there was no compulsion , only deep interest in them . 
Margaret the Churchwoman , her father the Dissenter , Higgins the Infidel , knelt down together . 
The next morning brought Margaret a letter from Edith . 
But the affection was charming to Margaret 's own affectionate nature ; and she had grown up with the inconsequence , so she did not perceive it . 
It was as follows : -- `` Oh , Margaret , it is worth a journey from England to see my boy ! 
Having made all the mothers here envious , I want to show him to somebody new , and hear a fresh set of admiring expressions ; perhaps , that 's all the reason ; perhaps it is not , -- nay , possibly , there is just a little cousinly love mixed with it ; but I do want you so much to come here , Margaret ! 
I am constantly wanting you to draw him for me , Margaret . 
Oh , it is this -- Dearest Margaret ! 
Dear Margaret , if he would like to accompany you and Aunt Hale , we will try and make it pleasant , though I 'm rather afraid of any one who has done something for conscience ' sake . 
Here 's this boy of mine , Margaret , -- if you do n't pack up your things as soon as you get this letter , and come straight off to see him , I shall think you 're descended from King Herod ! '' 
Margaret did long for a day of Edith 's life -- her freedom from care , her cheerful home , her sunny skies . 
If a wish could have transported her , she would have gone off ; just for one day . 
She yearned for the strength which such a change would give , -- even for a few-hours to be in the midst of that bright life , and to feel young again . 
and she had had to bear up against such hard pressure that she felt quite old . 
That was her first feeling after reading Edith 's letter . 
Margaret flew to adjust the pillows . 
Her mothers seemed more than usually feeble . 
`` What were you laughing at , Margaret ? '' 
asked she , as soon as she had recovered from the exertion of settling herself on the sofa . 
She read it aloud , and for a time it seemed to interest her mother , who kept wondering what name Edith had given to her boy , and suggesting all probable names , and all possible reasons why each and all of these names should be given . 
He could not -- say rather , he would not -- deny himself the chance of the pleasure of seeing Margaret . 
He entered the room , taking in at a glance the fact of Margaret 's presence ; but after the first cold distant bow , he never seemed to let his eyes fall on her again . 
He only stayed to present his peaches -- to speak some gentle kindly words -- and then his cold offended eyes met Margaret 's with a grave farewell , as he left the room . 
She sat down silent and pale . 
`` Do you know , Margaret , I really begin quite to like Mr. Thornton . '' 
Then Margaret forced out an icy `` Do you ? '' 
Margaret 's voice was more in order now . 
She replied , `` He is very kind and attentive , -- there is no doubt of that . '' 
You have so few friends here , Margaret . '' 
Margaret felt what was in her mother 's thoughts , -- a tender craving to bespeak the kindness of some woman towards the daughter that might be so soon left motherless . 
But she could not speak . 
But , Margaret , do n't get to use these horrid Milton words . 
do n't try and make a bugbear of aunt Shaw , '' said Margaret , laughing . 
Margaret started up as her mother said this . 
Her father had just entered the room , and she was most anxious that the faint impression she had seen on his mind that the Milton air had injured her mother 's health , should not be deepened , -- should not receive any confirmation . 
She could not tell whether he had heard what Mrs. Hale had said or not ; but she began speaking hurriedly of other things , unaware that Mr. Thornton was following him . 
The `` Vulgarity '' Margaret spoke of , referred purely to the use of local words , and the expression arose out of the conversation they had just been holding . 
But Mr. Thornton 's brow darkened ; and Margaret suddenly felt how her speech might be misunderstood by him ; so , in the natural sweet desire to avoid giving unnecessary pain , she forced herself to go forwards with a little greeting , and continue what she was saying , addressing herself to him expressly . 
It was unusual with Margaret to obtrude her own subject of conversation on others ; but , in this case , she was so anxious to prevent Mr. Thornton from feeling annoyance at the words he had accidentally overheard , that it was not until she had done speaking that she coloured all over with consciousness , more especially as Mr. Thornton seemed hardly to understand the exact gist or bearing of what she was saying . 
but passed her by , with a cold reserve of ceremonious movement , to speak to Mrs. Hale . 
The sight of him reminded her of the wish to see his mother , and commend Margaret to her care . 
Margaret , sitting in burning silence , vexed and ashamed of her difficulty in keeping her right place , and her calm unconsciousness of heart , when Mr. Thornton was by , heard her mother 's slow entreaty that Mrs. Thornton would come and see her ; see her soon ; to-morrow , if it were possible . 
Mr. Thornton promised that she should -- conversed a little , and then took his leave ; and Margaret 's movements and voice seemed at once released from some invisible chains . 
He never looked at her ; and yet , the careful avoidance of his eyes betokened that in some way he knew exactly where , if they fell by chance , they would rest on her . 
If she spoke , he gave no sign of attention , and yet his next speech to any one else was modified by what she had said ; sometimes there was an express answer to what she had remarked , but given to another person as though unsuggested by her . 
Margaret thought about him more than she had ever done before ; not with any tinge of what is called love , but with regret that she had wounded him so deeply , -- and with a gentle , patient striving to return to their former position of antagonistic friendship ; for a friend 's position was what she found that he had held in her regard , as well as in that of the rest of the family . 
There was a pretty humility in her behaviour to him , as if mutely apologising for the over-strong words which were the reaction from the deeds of the day of the riot . 
They rung in his ears ; and he was proud of the sense of justice which made him go on in every kindness he could offer to her parents . 
He exulted in the power he showed in compelling himself to face her , whenever he could think of any action which might give her father or mother pleasure . 
It was a stinging pleasure to be in the room with her , and feel her presence . 
She had come because her son asked it from her as a personal favour , but with all the proud bitter feelings of her nature in arms against that family of which Margaret formed one . 
She doubted the reality of Mrs. Hale 's illness ; she doubted any want beyond a momentary fancy on that lady 's part , which should take her out of her previously settled course of employment for the day . 
She told her son that she wished they had never come near the place ; that he had never got acquainted with them ; that there had been no such useless languages as Latin and Greek ever invented . 
He bore all this pretty silently ; but when she had ended her invective against the dead languages , he quietly returned to the short , curt , decided expression of his wish that she should go and see Mrs. Hale at the time appointed , as most likely to be convenient to the invalid . 
His goodness verging on weakness -LRB- as all the softer virtures did in her mind -RRB- , and her own contempt for Mr. and Mrs. Hale , and positive dislike to Margaret , were the ideas which occupied Mrs. Thornton , till she was struck into nothingness before the dark shadow of the wings of the angel of death . 
The heavy moisture of tears stood on the eyelashes before she looked up ; then with her hand groping feebly over the bed-clothes , for the touch of Mrs. Thornton 's large firm fingers , she said , scarcely above her breath -- Mrs. Thornton had to stoop from her erectness to listen , -- `` Margaret -- you have a daughter -- my sister is in Italy . 
Mrs. Thornton was too conscientious to promise what she did not mean to perform ; and to perform anything in the way of kindness on behalf of Margaret , more disliked at this moment than ever , was difficult ; almost impossible . 
`` I promise , '' said she , with grave severity ; which , after all , inspired the dying woman with faith as in something more stable than life itself , -- flickering , flitting , wavering life ! 
`` I promise that in any difficulty in which Miss Hale '' -- `` Call her Margaret ! '' 
I also promise that if ever I see her doing what I think is wrong '' -- `` But Margaret never does wrong -- not wilfully wrong , '' pleaded Mrs. Hale . 
She had a fierce pleasure in the idea of telling Margaret unwelcome truths , in the shape of performance of duty , Mrs. Hale began to speak : `` I thank you . 
During the time that Mrs. Thornton was having this interview with Mrs. Hale , Margaret and Dixon were laying their heads together , and consulting how they should keep Frederick 's coming a profound secret to all out of the house . 
Margaret wished that she had been sent away on the previous day , as she fancied it might be thought strange to give a servant a holiday when her mistress 's state required so much attendance . 
Poor Margaret ! 
All that afternoon she had to act the part of a Roman daughter , and give strength out of her own scanty stock to her father . 
Margaret 's heart ached to see him ; yet , as he did not speak , she did not like to volunteer any attempt at comfort . 
Margaret sat at the window , looking out at the lamps and the street , but seeing nothing , -- only alive to her father 's heavy sighs . 
She did not like to go down for lights , lest the tacit restraint of her presence being withdrawn , he might give way to more violent emotion , without her being at hand to comfort him . 
Yet she was just thinking that she ought to go and see after the well-doing of the kitchen fire , which there was nobody but herself to attend to , when she heard the muffled door-bell ring with so violent a pull , that the wires jingled all through the house , though the positive sound was not great . 
She started up , passed her father , who had never moved at the veiled , dull sound , -- returned , and kissed him tenderly . 
And still he never moved , nor took any notice of her fond embrace . 
Then she went down softly , through the dark , to the door . 
Dixon would have put the chain on before she opened it , but Margaret had not a thought of fear in her pre-occupied mind . 
A man 's tall figure stood between her and the luminous street . 
Margaret tremble all over ; at first she did not answer . 
In a moment she sighed out , `` Frederick ! '' 
and stretched out both her hands to catch his , and draw him in . 
`` Oh , Margaret ! '' 
said he , holding her off by her shoulders , after they had kissed each other , as if even in that darkness he could see her face , and read in its expression a quicker answer to his question than words could give , -- `` My mother ! 
is she alive ? '' 
`` Yes , she is alive , dear , dear brother ! 
She -- as ill as she can be she is ; but alive ! 
She is alive ! '' 
She groped her way to the taper and the lucifer matches . 
She suddenly felt shy , when the little feeble light made them visible . 
All she could see was , that her brother 's face was unusually dark in complexion , and she caught the stealthy look of a pair of remarkably long-cut blue eyes , that suddenly twinkled up with a droll consciousness of their mutual purpose of inspecting each other . 
But thogh the brother and sister had an instant of sympathy in their reciprocal glances , they did not exchange a word ; only , Margaret felt sure that she should like her brother as a companion as much as she already loved him as a near relation . 
Her heart was wonderfully lighter as she went up-stairs ; the sorrow was no less in reality , but it became less oppressive from having some one in precisely the same relaion to it as that in which she stood . 
Not her father 's desponding attitude had power to damp her now . 
He lay across the table , helpless as ever ; but she had the spell by which to rouse him . 
She used it perhaps too violently in her own great relief . 
`` Papa , '' said she , throwing her arms fondly round his neck ; pulling his weary head up in fact with her gentle violence , till it rested in her arms , and she could look into his eyes , and let them gain strength and assurance from hers . 
He looked at her ; she saw the idea of the truth glimmer into their filmy sadness , and be dismissed thence as a wild imagination . 
She heard him whisper ; she bent tenderly down to listen . 
It was so different to all which Margaret had hoped and expected , that she turned sick with disappointment , and was silent for an instant . 
Then she spoke again -- very differently -- not so exultingly , far more tenderly and carefully . 
Her father did not change his attitude , but he seemed to be trying to understand the fact . 
He is quite alone , and will be wondering why -- '' `` I will go to him , '' broke in her father ; and he lifted himself up and leant on her arm as on that of a guide . 
Margaret led him to the study door , but her spirits were so agitated that she felt she could not bear to see the meeting . 
She turned away , and ran upstairs , and cried most heartily . 
It was the first time she had dared to allow herself this relief for days . 
The strain had been terrible , as she now felt . 
She could hardly believe it . 
She stopped her crying , and opened her bedroom door . 
She heard no sound of voices , and almost feared she might have dreamt . 
She went down-stairs , and listened at the study door . 
She heard the buzz of voices ; and that was enough . 
She went into the kitchen , and stirred up the fire , and lighted the house , and prepared for the wanderer 's refreshment . 
How fortunate it was that her mother slept ! 
She knew that she did , from the candle-lighter thrust through the keyhole of her bedroom door . 
The traveller could be refreshed and bright , and the first excitement of the meeting with his father all be over , before her mother became aware of anything unusual . 
When all was ready , Margaret opened the study door , and went in like a serving-maiden , with a heavy tray held in her extended arms . 
She was proud of serving Frederick . 
But he , when he saw her , sprang up in a minute , and relieved her of her burden . 
The fire had gone out ; and Margaret applied herself to light it , for the evenings had begun to be chilly : and yet it was desirable to make all noises as distant as possible from Mrs. Hale 's room . 
`` Poeta naseitur , non fit , '' murmured Mr. Hale ; and Margaret was glad to hear a quotation once more , however , languidly given . 
But , Margaret , what a bungler you are ! 
So Margaret went away ; and returned ; and passed in and out of the room , in a glad restlessness that could not be satisfied with sitting still . 
The more wants Frederick had , the better she was pleased ; and he understood all this by instinct . 
He stood up , and faced the door , showing such a strange , sudden anxiety to conceal Frederick from the sight of any person entering , even though it were the faithful Dixon , that a shiver came over Margaret 's heart : it reminded her of the new fear in their lives . 
She caught at Frederick 's arm , and clutched it tight while a stern thought compressed her brows , and caused her to set her teeth . 
Margaret rose up . 
`` I will go to her , and tell her . 
Margaret could not sit still . 
It was a relief to her to aid Dixon in all her preparations for `` Mater Fredrick . '' 
It seemed as though she never could be tired again . 
Each glimpse into the room where he sate by his father , conversing with him , about , she knew not what , nor cared to know , -- was increase of strength to her . 
Her own time for talking and hearing would come at last , and she was too certain of this to feel in a hurry to grasp it now . 
She took in his appearance and liked it . 
His eyes were generally merry-looking , but at times they and his mouth so suddenly changed , and gave her such an idea of latent passion , that it almost made her afraid . 
Margaret might fear the violence of the impulsive nature thus occasionally betrayed , but there was nothing in it to make her distrust , or recoil in the least , from the new-found brother . 
On the contrary , all their intercourse was peculiarly charming to her from the very first . 
She knew then how much responsibility she had had to bear , from the exquisite sensation of relief which she felt in Frederick 's presence . 
Then Margaret was almost touched into tears by the allusions which he often made to their childish days in the New Forest ; he had never forgotten her -- or Helstone either -- all the time he had been roaming among distant countries and foreign people . 
She might talk to him of the old spot , and never fear tiring him . 
She had been afraid of him before he came , even while she had longed for his coming ; seven or eight years had , she felt , produced such great changes in herself that , forgetting how much of the original Margaret was left , she had reasoned that if her tastes and feelings had so materially altered , even in her stay-at-home life , his wild career , with which she was but imperfectly acquainted , must have almost substituted another Frederick for the tall stripling in his middy 's uniform , whom she remembered looking up to with such admiring awe . 
And so it was that the weight , this sorrowful time , was lightened to Margaret . 
Other light than that of Frederick 's presence she had none . 
She sate with his hand in hers ; she would not part with it even while she slept ; and Margaret had to feed him like a baby , rather than that he should disturb her mother by removing a finger . 
This state of tranquillity could not endure for many days , nor perhaps for many hours ; so Dr. Donaldson assured Margaret . 
After the kind doctor had gone away , she stole down to Frederick , who , during the visit , had been adjured to remain quietly concealed in the back parlour , usually Dixon 's bedroom , but now given up to him . 
Margaret told him what Dr. Donaldson said . 
`` She is very ill ; she may be dangerously ill , and in immediate danger , too ; but I ca n't imagine that she could be as she is , if she were on the point of death . 
Margaret ! 
she should have some other advice -- some London doctor . 
`` Yes , '' said Margaret , `` more than once . 
`` It was no blunder , '' said Margaret gloomily . 
At last he stopped right opposite to Margaret , and looked at her drooping and desponding attitude for an instant . 
`` My little Margaret ! '' 
said he , caressing her . 
Bear up , Margaret , and be brave enough to hope ! '' 
Margaret choked in trying to speak , and when she did it was very low . 
And I was getting to understand her . 
''' `` Not excluding mischief , '' said Margaret , smiling faintly through her tears . 
If Margaret thought Frederick 's theory rather a rough one at first , she saw how he worked it out into continual production of kindness in fact . 
Margaret would have given up the effort in despair to rouse Mr. Hale out of his dejection ; it would even have affected herself and rendered her incapable of talking at all . 
Then Margaret rose from her trembling and despondency , and became as a strong angel of comfort to her father and brother . 
He cried so violently when shut up alone in his little room at night , that Margaret and Dixon came down in affright to warn him to be quiet : for the house partitions were but thin , and the next door neighbours might easily hear his youthful passionate sobs , so different from the slower trembling agony of after-life , when we become inured to grief , and dare not be rebellious against the inexorable doom , knowing who it is that decrees . 
Margaret sate with her father in the room with the dead . 
If he had cried , she would have been thankful . 
But he sate by the bed quite quietly ; only , from time to time , he uncovered the face , and stroked it gently , making a kind of soft inarticulate noise , like that of some mother-animal caressing her young . 
He took no notice of Margaret 's presence . 
Once or twice she came up to kiss him ; and he submitted to it , giving her a little push away when she had done , as if her affection disturbed him from his absorption in the dead . 
Margaret 's heart ached within her . 
She could not think of her own loss in thinking of her father 's case . 
The night was wearing away , and the day was at hand , when , without a word of preparation , Margaret 's voice broke upon the stillness of the room , with a clearness of sound that startled even herself : `` Let not your heart be troubled , '' it said ; and she went steadily on through all that chapter of unspeakable consolation . 
Margaret went languidly about , assisting Dixon in her task of arranging the house . 
Her eyes were continually blinded by tears , but she had no time to give way to regular crying . 
The father and brother depended upon her ; while they were giving way to grief , she must be working , planning , considering . 
Even the necessary arrangements for the funeral seemed to devolve upon her . 
When the fire was bright and crackling -- when everything was ready for breakfast , and the tea-kettle was singing away , Margaret gave a last look round the room before going to summon Mr. Hale and Frederick . 
She wanted everything to look as cheerful as possible ; and yet , when it did so , the contrast between it and her own thoughts forced her into sudden weeping . 
She was kneeling by the sofa , hiding her face in the cushions that no one might hear her cry , when she was touched on the shoulder by Dixon . 
Margaret did not take any comfort from what Dixon said , but the unusual tenderness of the prim old servant 's manner touched her to the heart ; and , more from a desire to show her gratitude for this than for any other reason , she roused herself up , and smiled in answer to Dixon 's anxious look at her ; and went to tell her father and brother that breakfast was ready . 
Margaret gained no real decision from him ; and was leaving the room languidly , to have a consultation with Dixon , when Mr. Hale motioned her back to his side . 
Margaret understood the association . 
`` I will write to-day , '' said she . 
All morning she toiled on , longing for rest , but in a continual whirl of melancholy business . 
said Margaret , eagerly . 
Margaret was made very uncomfortable by this account of Dixon 's . 
Just as Margaret was thinking all this , sitting over the drawing-room fire -- her father restless and uneasy under the pressure of this newly-aroused fear , of which he had not as yet spoken -- Frederick came in , his brightness dimmed , but the extreme violence of his grief passed away . 
He came up to Margaret , and kissed her forehead . 
`` How wan you look , Margaret ! '' 
`` That is the worst , '' said Margaret , in a sad whisper . 
But she went and lay down , and her brother covered her feet with a shawl , and then sate on the ground by her side ; and the two began to talk in a subdued tone . 
Margaret told him all that Dixon had related of her interview with young Leonards . 
I declare , Margaret -- you know the circumstances of the whole affair ? '' 
said Margaret , pleading against her own conviction of necessity . 
`` One of the earliest things I can remember , '' said Margaret , `` was your being in some great disgrace , Fred , for stealing apples . 
`` Yes -- you must go , '' repeated Mr. Hale , answering Margaret 's question , which she had asked some time ago . 
Margaret and Frederick looked at each other . 
Frederick shook it off first : `` Do you know , Margaret , I was very nearly giving both Dixon and myself a good fright this afternoon . 
`` Very likely , '' said Margaret , indifferently . 
said Margaret , a little surprised . 
asked Frederick , as she did not finish her sentence . 
`` Oh , only , '' said she , reddening and looking straight at him , `` I fancied you meant some one of a different class , not a gentleman ; somebody come on an errand . '' 
Margaret was silent . 
She remembered how at first , before she knew his character , she had spoken and thought of him just as Frederick was doing . 
It was but a natural impression that was made upon him , and yet she was a little annoyed by it . 
She was unwilling to speak ; she wanted to make Frederick understand what kind of person Mr. Thornton was -- but she was tongue-tied . 
`` A very kind friend , '' said Margaret , when her father did not answer . 
At last he spoke : `` Margaret , it is painful to think I can never thank those who have shown you kindness . 
`` That Dolores Barbour that I was telling you of , Margaret -- I only wish you knew her ; I am sure you would like -- no , love is the right word , like is so poor -- you would love her , father , if you knew her . 
She is not eighteen ; but if she is in the same mind another year , she is to be my wife . 
Margaret , be on my side . '' 
`` Oh , Frederick , '' said Margaret , `` tell us more about her . 
But my father 's change of opinion -- nay , Margaret , do n't sigh . '' 
Margaret had reason to sigh a little more before the conversation ended . 
This was , then , the reason why his sympathy in her extreme distress at her father 's leaving the Church had been so faintly expressed in his letters . 
She had thought it was the carelessness of a sailor ; but the truth was , that even then he was himself inclined to give up the form of religion into which he had been baptised , only that his opinions were tending in exactly the opposite direction to those of his father . 
Margaret gave up talking about this branch of the subject at last ; and , returning to the fact of the engagement , she began to consider it in some fresh light : `` But for her sake , Fred , you surely will try and clear yourself of the exaggerated charges brought against you , even if the charge of mutiny itself be true . 
`` In the first place , Margaret , who is to hunt up my witnesses ? 
asked Margaret , looking up , and turning very red . 
`` You could go to London to-morrow evening by a night-train , '' continued Margaret , warming up into her plan . 
`` He must go to-morrow , I 'm afraid , papa , '' said she , tenderly ; `` we fixed that , because of Mr. Bell , and Dixon 's disagreeable acquaintance . '' 
`` Well then , '' said Margaret , `` listen to my plan . 
Money , dear father , that I had meant for a different purpose ; so I shall only consider it as borrowed from you and Margaret . '' 
`` Do n't do that , '' said Margaret . 
It was rather a comfort to Margaret that Frederick took it into his head to look over her shoulder as she wrote to Mr. Lennox . 
If she had not been thus compelled to write steadily and concisely on , she might have hesitated over many a word , and been puzzled to choose between many an expression , in the awkwardness of being the first to resume the intercourse of which the concluding event had been so unpleasant to both sides . 
However , the note was taken from her before she had even had time to look it over , and treasured up in a pocket-book , out of which fell a long look of black hair , the sight of which caused Frederick 's eyes to glow with pleasure . 
Margaret , not so passionate at first , was more suffering now . 
At times she cried a good deal ; and her manner , even when speaking on indifferent things , had a mournful tenderness about it , which was deepened whenever her looks fell on Frederick , and she thought of his rapidly approaching departure . 
She was glad he was going , on her father 's account , however much she might grieve over it on her own . 
Towards evening he said : `` You will go with Frederick to the station , Margaret ? 
`` Certainly , '' said Margaret . 
So what will you do , Margaret ? '' 
Margaret was thankful when the parting was over -- the parting from the dead mother and the living father . 
She hurried Frederick into the cab , in order to shorten a scene which she saw was so bitterly painful to her father , who would accompany his son as he took his last look at his mother . 
Margaret 's hand lay in Frederick 's arm . 
`` Margaret ! 
Margaret could hardly keep from crying at the tender anxiety with which Frederick was bringing before her an event which she herself felt was not very improbable , so severely had the cares of the last few months told upon Mr. Hale . 
But she tried to rally as she said : `` There have been such strange unexpected changes in my life during these last two years , that I feel more than ever that it is not worth while to calculate too closely what I should do if any future event took place . 
She paused ; they were standing still for a moment , close on the field side of the stile leading into the road ; the setting sun fell on their faces . 
Frederick held her hand in his , and looked with wistful anxiety into her face , reading there more care and trouble than she would betray by words . 
She went on : `` We shall write often to one another , and I will promise -- for I see it will set your mind at ease -- to tell you every worry I have . 
Papa is '' -- she started a little , a hardly visible start -- but Frederick felt the sudden motion of the hand he held , and turned his full face to the road , along which a horseman was slowly riding , just passing the very stile where they stood . 
Margaret bowed ; her bow was stiffly returned . 
Margaret was a little drooping , a little flushed , as she replied : `` Mr. Thornton ; you saw him before , you know . '' 
`` Something has happened to vex him , '' said Margaret , apologetically . 
If I had known how dark it would be , we would n't have sent back the cab , Margaret . '' 
Margaret insisted upon going into the full light of the flaring gas inside to take the ticket . 
Margaret thought she had seen the face of one of them before , and returned him a proud look of offended dignity for his somewhat impertinent stare of undisguised admiration . 
She went hastily to her brother , who was standing outside , and took hold of his arm . 
Let us walk about here on the platform , '' said she , a little flurried at the idea of so soon being left alone , and her bravery oozing out rather faster than she liked to acknowledge even to herself . 
She heard a step following them along the flags ; it stopped when they stopped , looking out along the line and hearing the whizz of the coming train . 
Margaret almost repented the urgency with which she had entreated him to go to London ; it was throwing more chances of detection in his way . 
said he , pushing Margaret rudely on one side , and seizing Frederick by the collar . 
In an instant -- how , Margaret did not see , for everything danced before her eyes -- but by some sleight of wrestling , Frederick had tripped him up , and he fell from the height of three or four feet , which the platform was elevated above the space of soft ground , by the side of the railroad . 
gasped Margaret . 
And she took him by the arm to push him along with all her feeble force . 
A door was opened in a carriage -- he jumped in ; and as he leant out to say , `` God bless you , Margaret ! '' 
the train rushed past her ; and she was left standing alone . 
She was so terribly sick and faint that she was thankful to be able to turn into the ladies ' waiting-room , and sit down for an instant . 
At first she could do nothing but gasp for breath . 
She wondered if the man had got up : she tried to remember if she had seen him move ; she wondered if he could have been seriously hurt . 
She ventured out ; the platform was all alight , but still quite deserted ; she went to the end , and looked over , somewhat fearfully . 
No one was there ; and then she was glad she had made herself go , and inspect , for otherwise terrible thoughts would have haunted her dreams . 
And even as it was , she was so trembling and affrighted that she felt she could not walk home along the road , which did indeed seem lonely and dark , as she gazed down upon it from the blaze of the station . 
She would wait till the down train passed and take her seat in it . 
But what if Leonards recognised her as Frederick 's companion ! 
She peered about , before venturing into the booking-office to take her ticket . 
asked another , while Margaret , her back towards them , was counting her change with trembling fingers , not daring to turn round until she heard the answer to this question . 
And now all Margaret 's anxiety was for the train to come . 
She hid herself once more in the ladies ' waiting-room , and fancied every noise was Leonards ' step -- every loud and boisterous voice was his . 
But no one came near her until the train drew up ; when she was civilly helped into a carriage by a porter , into whose face she durst not look till they were in motion , and then she saw that it was not Leonards ' Home seemed unnaturally quiet after all this terror and noisy commotion . 
Her father had seen all due preparation made for her refreshment on her return ; and then sate down again in his accustomed chair , to fall into one of his sad waking dreams . 
Margaret had resolved not to mention the crowning and closing affright to her father . 
But there were immense chances against the success of any such plan ; and Margaret determined not to torment herself by thinking of what she could do nothing to prevent . 
Frederick would be as much on his guard as she could put him ; and in a day or two at most he would be safely out of England . 
`` I suppose we shall hear from Mr. Bell to-morrow , '' said Margaret . 
`` Yes , '' replied her father . 
Let me go with you , '' said Margaret , impetuously . 
Margaret had all the difficulty in the world to persuade her father not to invite Mr. Thornton . 
She had an indescribable repugnance to this step being taken . 
Margaret tossed the note to her father . 
`` Oh , do n't let us have these forms , '' said she . 
`` I thought you were so extremely averse to his going , Margaret , '' said Mr. Hale in some surprise . 
She startled her father by bursting into tears . 
She had been so subdued in her grief , so thoughtful for others , so gentle and patient in all things , that he could not understand her impatient ways to-night ; she seemed agitated and restless ; and at all the tenderness which her father in his turn now lavished upon her , she only cried the more . 
She passed so bad a night that she was ill prepared for the additional anxiety caused by a letter received from Frederick . 
Margaret might be assured he would take every precaution against being tracked by Leonards . 
Margaret was thankful that she received this letter while her father was absent in her mother 's room . 
If he had been present , he would have expected her to read it aloud to him , and it would have raised in him a state of nervous alarm which she would have found it impossible to soothe away . 
There was not merely the fact , which disturbed her excessively , of Frederick 's detention in London , but there were allusions to the recognition at the last moment at Milton , and the possibility of a pursuit , which made her blood run cold ; and how then would it have affected her father ? 
Many a time did Margaret repent of having suggested and urged on the plan of consulting Mr. Lennox . 
Margaret battled hard against this regret of hers for what could not now be helped ; this self-reproach for having said what had at the time appeared to be wise , but which after events were proving to have been so foolish . 
But her father was in too depressed a state of mind and body to struggle healthily ; he would succumb to all these causes for morbid regret over what could not be recalled . 
Margaret summoned up all her forces to her aid . 
Her father seemed to have forgotten that they had any reason to expect a letter from Frederick that morning . 
He looked wistfully at Margaret ; and , when released , he tottered towards her , murmuring , `` Pray for me , Margaret . 
I give her up because I must . 
But I can not see why she died . 
Pray for me , Margaret , that I may have faith to pray . 
Margaret sat by him in the coach , almost supporting him in her arms ; and repeating all the noble verses of holy comfort , or texts expressive of faithful resignation , that she could remember . 
Her voice never faltered ; and she herself gained strength by doing this . 
Her father 's lips moved after her , repeating the well-known texts as her words suggested them ; it was terrible to see the patient struggling effort to obtain the resignation which he had not strength to take into his heart as a part of himself . 
Margaret 's fortitude nearly gave way as Dixon , with a slight motion of her hand , directed her notice to Nicholas Higgins and his daughter , standing a little aloof , but deeply attentive to the ceremonial . 
He went on repeating to himself , mechanically as it were , all the funeral service as it was read by the officiating clergyman ; he sighed twice or thrice when all was ended ; and then , putting his hand on Margaret 's arm , he mutely entreated to be led away , as if he were blind , and she his faithful guide . 
But this delicious vision of what might have been -- in which , in spite of all Margaret 's repulse , he would have indulged only a few days ago -- was miserably disturbed by the recollection of what he had seen near the Outwood station . 
He was haunted by the remembrance of the handsome young man , with whom she stood in an attitude of such familiar confidence ; and the remembrance shot through him like an agony , till it made him clench his hands tight in order to subdue the pain . 
It took a great moral effort to galvanise his trust -- erewhile so perfect -- in Margaret 's pure and exquisite maidenliness , into life ; as soon as the effort ceased , his trust dropped down dead and powerless : and all sorts of wild fancies chased each other like dreams through his mind . 
She had then some hope to look to , so bright that even in her affectionate nature it could come in to lighten the dark hours of a daughter newly made motherless . 
he knew how she would love . 
He had not loved her without gaining that instinctive knowledge of what capabilities were in her . 
Her soul would walk in glorious sunlight if any man was worthy , by his power of loving , to win back her love . 
Even in her mourning she would rest with a peaceful faith upon his sympathy . 
Although he hated Margaret at times , when he thought of that gentle familiar attitude and all the attendant circumstances , he had a restless desire to renew her picture in his mind -- a longing for the very atmosphere she breathed . 
For some reason or other , Dixon never named this interview that she had had with Mr. Thornton to Margaret . 
It might have been mere chance , but so it was that Margaret never heard that he had attended her poor mother 's funeral . 
The `` bearing up better than likely '' was a terrible strain upon Margaret . 
Sometimes she thought she must give way , and cry out with pain , as the sudden sharp thought came across her , even during her apparently cheerful conversations with her father , that she had no longer a mother . 
The Sunday post intervened , and interfered with their London letters ; and on Tuesday Margaret was surprised and disheartened to find that there was still no letter . 
She was quite in the dark as to his plans , and her father was miserable at all this uncertainty . 
He kept pacing up and down the room ; then out of it ; and she heard him upon the landing opening and shutting the bed-room doors , without any apparent object . 
She tried to tranquillise him by reading aloud ; but it was evident he could not listen for long together . 
How thankful she was then , that she had kept to herself the additional cause for anxiety produced by their encounter with Leonards . 
She was thankful to hear Mr. Thornton announced . 
His visit would force her father 's thoughts into another channel . 
He came up straight to her father , whose hands he took and wrung without a word -- holding them in his for a minute or two , during which time his face , his eyes , his look , told of more sympathy than could be put into words . 
Then he turned to Margaret . 
Not `` better than likely '' did she look . 
Her stately beauty was dimmed with much watching and with many tears . 
The expression on her countenance was of gentle patient sadness -- nay of positive present suffering . 
He had not meant to greet her otherwise than with his late studied coldness of demeanour ; but he could not help going up to her , as she stood a little aside , rendered timid by the uncertainty of his manner of late , and saying the few necessary common-place words in so tender a voice , that her eyes filled with tears , and she turned away to hide her emotion . 
She took her work and sate down very quiet and silent . 
He tried to talk to Mr. Hale : and -- his presence always a certain kind of pleasure to Mr. Hale , as his power and decision made him , and his opinions , a safe , sure port -- was unusually agreeable to her father , as Margaret saw . 
Dixon 's manner was so flurried that Margaret turned sick at heart . 
She had no doubt of that . 
It was well that her father and Mr. Thornton were so much occupied by their conversation . 
asked Margaret , the moment she had shut the drawing-room door . 
`` Come this way , miss , '' said Dixon , opening the door of what had been Mrs. Hale 's bed-chamber , now Margaret 's , for her father refused to sleep there again after his wife 's death . 
`` Did he name -- '' asked Margaret , almost inaudibly . 
Margaret did not speak again till her hand was on the lock of the study door . 
Here she turned round and said , `` Take care papa does not come down . 
The inspector was almost daunted by the haughtiness of her manner as she entered . 
There was something of indignation expressed in her countenance , but so kept down and controlled , that it gave her a superb air of disdain . 
She stood awaiting the opening of his business there . 
Not a question did she ask . 
Her lips swelled out into a richer curve than ordinary , owing to the enforced tension of the muscles , but he did not know what was their usual appearance , so as to recognise the unwonted sullen defiance of the firm sweeping lines . 
She never blenched or trembled . 
She fixed him with her eye . 
Now -- as he paused before going on , she said , almost as if she would encourage him in telling his tale -- `` Well -- go on ! '' 
There is also some reason to identify the lady with yourself ; in which case -- '' `` I was not there , '' said Margaret , still keeping her expressionless eyes fixed on his face , with the unconscious look of a sleep-walker . 
The inspector ran all this over in his mind -- the vagueness of the evidence to prove that Margaret had been at the station -- the unflinching , calm denial which she gave to such a supposition . 
She stood awaiting his next word with a composure that appeared supreme . 
A quick , sharp pain went through Margaret 's brain . 
A deep observer of human countenances might have seen the momentary agony shoot out of her great gloomy eyes , like the torture of some creature brought to bay . 
He was a little struck , notwithstanding , by the form of the answer , which sounded like a mechanical repetition of her first reply -- not changed and modified in shape so as to meet his last question . 
`` I was not there , '' said she , slowly and heavily . 
And all this time she never closed her eyes , or ceased from that glassy , dream-like stare . 
His quick suspicions were aroused by this dull echo of her former denial . 
It was as if she had forced herself to one untruth , and had been stunned out of all power of varying it . 
Then he looked up ; she had not moved any more than if she had been some great Egyptian statue . 
I may have to summon you to appear on the inquest , and prove an alibi , if my witnesses '' -LRB- it was but one who had recognised her -RRB- `` persist in deposing to your presence at the unfortunate event . '' 
He looked at her sharply . 
She was still perfectly quiet -- no change of colour , or darker shadow of guilt , on her proud face . 
He thought to have seen her wince : he did not know Margaret Hale . 
He was a little abashed by her regal composure . 
Margaret bowed her head as he went towards the door . 
Her lips were stiff and dry . 
She could not speak even the common words of farewell . 
But suddenly she walked forwards , and opened the study door , and preceded him to the door of the house , which she threw wide open for his exit . 
She kept her eyes upon him in the same dull , fixed manner , until he was fairly out of the house . 
She shut the door , and went half-way into the study ; then turned back , as if moved by some passionate impulse , and locked the door inside . 
Then she went into the study , paused -- tottered forward -- paused again -- swayed for an instant where she stood , and fell prone on the floor in a dead swoon . 
He felt that his company gave pleasure to Mr. Hale ; and was touched by the half-spoken wishful entreaty that he would remain a little longer -- the plaintive `` Do n't go yet , '' which his poor friend put forth from time to time , He wondered Margaret did not return ; but it was with no view of seeing her that he lingered . 
He was deeply interested in all her father said It was curious how the presence of Mr. Thornton had power over Mr. Hale to make him unlock the secret thoughts which he kept shut up even from Margaret . 
Whether it was that her sympathy would be so keen , and show itself in so lively a manner , that he was afraid of the reaction upon himself , or whether it was that to his speculative mind all kinds of doubts presented themselves at such a time , pleading and crying aloud to be resolved into certainties , and that he knew she would have shrunk from the expression of any such doubts -- nay , from him himself as capable of conceiving them -- whatever was the reason , he could unburden himself better to Mr. Thornton than to her of all the thoughts and fancies and fears that had been frost-bound in his brain till now . 
And all this while , Margaret lay as still and white as death on the study floor ! 
She had sunk under her burden . 
It had been heavy in weight and long carried ; and she had been very meek and patient , till all at once her faith had given way , and she had groped in vain for help ! 
There was a pitiful contraction of suffering upon her beautiful brows , although there was no other sign of consciousness remaining . 
Then , feebly leaning on her arms for an instant to steady herself , Margaret gathered herself up , and rose . 
Her comb had fallen out of her hair ; and with an intuitive desire to efface the traces of weakness , and bring herself into order again , she sought for it , although from time to time , in the course of the search , she had to sit down and recover strength . 
Her head drooped forwards -- her hands meekly laid one upon the other -- she tried to recall the force of her temptation , by endeavouring to remember the details which had thrown her into such deadly fright ; but she could not . 
She only understood two facts -- that Frederick had been in danger of being pursued and detected in London , as not only guilty of manslaughter , but as the more unpardonable leader of the mutiny , and that she had lied to save him . 
There was one comfort ; her lie had saved him , if only by gaining some additional time . 
If the inspector came again to-morrow , after she had received the letter she longed for to assure her of her brother 's safety , she would brave shame , and stand in her bitter penance -- she , the lofty Margaret -- acknowledging before a crowded justice-room , if need were , that she had been as `` a dog , and done this thing . '' 
But if he came before she heard from Frederick ; if he returned , as he had half threatened , in a few hours , why ! 
she would tell that lie again ; though how the words would come out , after all this terrible pause for reflection and self-reproach , without betraying her falsehood , she did not know , she could not tell . 
But her repetition of it would gain time -- time for Frederick . 
She was roused by Dixon 's entrance into the room ; she had just been letting out Mr. Thornton . 
How creeping and deadly that fear which could bow down the truthful Margaret to falsehood ! 
He could almost pity her . 
She could not have considered all she was entering upon ; if there was an inquest and the young man came forward . 
He would save Margaret . 
If he had but known how Margaret would have become involved in the affair -- if he had but foreseen that she would have stained her whiteness by a falsehood , he could have saved her by a word ; for the question , of inquest or no inquest , had hung trembling in the balance only the night before . 
Her father and Dixon would fain have persuaded Margaret to go to bed ; but they , neither of them , knew the reason for her low continued refusals to do so . 
Margaret would not tell any human being of what she had said , and she did not reveal the fatal termination to Leonards fall from the platform . 
So Dixon 's curiosity combined with her allegiance to urge Margaret to go to rest , which her appearance , as she lay on the sofa , showed but too clearly that she required . 
said Margaret , turning round and showing her eyes all aglow with strange fire , her cheeks flushed , though her lips were baked and livid still . 
She opened the door to the Inspector , and preceded him into the study . 
She placed the candle on the table , and snuffed it carefully , before she turned round and faced him . 
said she . 
She held her breath for the answer . 
`` Then it is ended , '' said Margaret . 
said Margaret . 
She could not see to read it -- no , not although she was close to the candle . 
The words swam before her . 
But she held it in her hand , and looked at it as if she were intently studying it . 
said Margaret , again . 
Margaret sighed deeply . 
She did not want to hear any more ; she was afraid alike of what she had heard , and of what she might hear . 
She wished that the man would go . 
She forced herself to speak . 
she continued , suddenly interpreting the meaning of the hand held out to receive it . 
He was putting it up , when she said , `` I think it is a cramped , dazzling sort of writing . 
He read it aloud to her . 
She rang the bell for Dixon to show him out . 
As Dixon returned up the passage Margaret passed her swiftly . 
said she , without looking at Dixon ; and before the woman could follow her with further questions she had sped up-stairs , and entered her bed-chamber , and bolted her door . 
Perceiving that Margaret was awake , she came forwards with a letter . 
Margaret did not reply ; she let her go ; she felt that she must be alone before she could open that letter . 
She opened it at last . 
The first thing that caught her eyes was the date two days earlier than she received it . 
But she would read the letter and see . 
Margaret turned to the envelope ; it was marked `` Too late . '' 
Frederick had been safe , and out of England twenty , nay , thirty hours ago ; and it was only about seventeen hours since she had told a falsehood to baffle pursuit , which even then would have been vain . 
How faithless she had been ! 
Where now was her proud motto , `` Fais ce que dois , advienne que pourra ? '' 
If she had but dared to bravely tell the truth as regarded herself , defying them to find out what she refused to tell concerning another , how light of heart she would now have felt ! 
She caught herself up at this with a miserable tremor ; here was she classing his low opinion of her alongside with the displeasure of God . 
How was it that he haunted her imagination so persistently ? 
Why did she care for what he thought , in spite of all her pride ; in spite of herself ? 
She believed that she could have borne the sense of Almighty displeasure , because . 
He knew all , and could read her penitence , and hear her cries for help in time to come . 
But Mr. Thornton -- why did she tremble , and hide her face in the pillow ? 
What strong feeling had overtaken her at last ? 
She sprang out of bed and prayed long and earnestly . 
It soothed and comforted her so to open her heart . 
But as soon as she reviewed her position she found the sting was still there ; that she was not good enough , nor pure enough to be indifferent to the lowered opinion of a fellow creature ; that the thought of how he must be looking upon her with contempt , stood between her and her sense of wrong doing . 
She took her letter in to her father as soon as she was drest . 
Indeed , beyond the mere fact of Frederick having sailed undiscovered and unsuspected , he did not gather much from the letter at the time , he was so uneasy about Margaret 's pallid looks . 
She seemed continually on the point of weeping . 
`` You are sadly overdone , Margaret . 
He made her lie down on the sofa , and went for a shawl to cover her with . 
His tenderness released her tears ; and she cried bitterly . 
said he , looking fondly at her , as she lay with her face to the wall , shaking with her sobs . 
After a while they ceased , and she began to wonder whether she durst give herself the relief of telling her father of all her trouble . 
The only one for it was the relief to herself ; and against it was the thought that it would add materially to her father 's nervousness , if it were indeed necessary for Frederick to come to England again ; that he would dwell on the circumstance of his son 's having caused the death of a man , however unwittingly and unwillingly ; that this knowledge would perpetually recur to trouble him , in various shapes of exaggeration and distortion from the simple truth . 
And about her own great fault -- he would be distressed beyond measure at her want of courage and faith , yet perpetually troubled to make excuses for her . 
Formerly Margaret would have come to him as priest as well as father , to tell him of her temptation and her sin ; but latterly they had not spoken much on such subjects ; and she knew not how , in his change of opinions , he would reply if the depth of her soul called unto his . 
No ; she would keep her secret , and bear the burden alone . 
Alone she would go before God , and cry for His absolution . 
Alone she would endure her disgraced position in the opinion of Mr. Thornton . 
She was unspeakably touched by the tender efforts of her father to think of cheerful subjects on which to talk , and so to take her thoughts away from dwelling on all that had happened of late . 
He would not let her sit up , and offended Dixon desperately by insisting on waiting upon her himself . 
At last she smiled ; a poor , weak little smile ; but it gave him the truest pleasure . 
`` It seems strange to think , that what gives us most hope for the future should be called Dolores , '' said Margaret . 
The remark was more in character with her father than with her usual self ; but to-day they seemed to have changed natures . 
But he said , `` If you wish it , Margaret . 
Margaret did not speak all at once . 
Then she said rather gravely : `` Thank you , papa . 
By-and-by Margaret said : `` Papa -- did you see Nicholas Higgins at the funeral ? 
Margaret sighed . 
She knew he would not come . 
He would be too delicate to run the chance of meeting her , while her shame must be so fresh in his memory . 
The very mention of his name renewed her trouble , and produced a relapse into the feeling of depressed , pre-occupied exhaustion . 
She gave way to listless languor . 
Suddenly it struck her that this was a strange manner to show her patience , or to reward her father for his watchful care of her all through the day . 
She sate up and offered to read aloud . 
His eyes were failing , and he gladly accepted her proposal . 
She read well : she gave the due emphasis ; but had any one asked her , when she had ended , the meaning of what she had been reading , she could not have told . 
She was smitten with a feeling of ingratitude to Mr. Thornton , inasmuch as , in the morning , she had refused to accept the kindness he had shown her in making further inquiry from the medical men , so as to obviate any inquest being held . 
she was grateful ! 
She had been cowardly and false , and had shown her cowardliness and falsehood in action that could not be recalled ; but she was not ungrateful . 
It sent a glow to her heart , to know how she could feel towards one who had reason to despise her . 
His cause for contempt was so just , that she should have respected him less if she had thought he did not feel contempt . 
It was a pleasure to feel how thoroughly she respected him . 
He could not prevent her doing that ; it was the one comfort in all this misery . 
`` Say that I am much better , Dixon , but that Miss Hale -- '' `` No , papa , '' said Margaret , eagerly -- `` do n't say anything about me . 
said her father , a few minutes afterwards . 
Margaret did not refuse to go , though she was loth to leave her father alone . 
She needed the relief of solitude after a day of busy thinking , and busier repenting . 
But she seemed much as usual the next day ; the lingering gravity and sadness , and the occasional absence of mind , were not unnatural symptoms in the early days of grief . 
And almost in proportion to her re-establishment in health , was her father 's relapse into his abstracted musing upon the wife he had lost , and the past era in his life that was closed to him for ever . 
He did not get up when he saw them , though Margaret could read the welcome in his eye . 
`` We though we should have a good chance of finding you , just after dinner-time , '' said Margaret . 
asked Margaret . 
`` We owe mary some money , '' said Mr. Hale , before Margaret 's sharp pressure on his arm could arrest the words . 
asked Margaret gently . 
But Margaret saw that he would like to be asked for the explanation . 
asked Margaret . 
Margaret was hesitating whether she should say what was in her mind ; she was unwilling to irritate one who was already gloomy and despondent enough . 
But in her soft tones , and with her reluctant manner , showing that she was unwilling to say anything unpleasant , it did not seem to annoy Higgins , only to perplex him . 
He was resting his head on his two hands , and looking down into the fire , so she could not read the expression on his face . 
asked Margaret . 
`` Margaret , '' said her father , in a low and warning tone , for he saw the cloud gathering on Higgins 's face . 
`` I like her , '' said Higgins , suddenly . 
`` Hoo speaks plain out what 's in her mind . 
exclaimed Margaret . 
Higgins crept up to Margaret 's side , and said in a weak piping kind of voice : `` It 's not John Boucher ? 
Through all these disfigurements , Margaret recognised John Boucher . 
It seemed to her so sacrilegious to be peering into that poor distorted , agonised face , that , by a flash of instinct , she went forwards and softly covered the dead man 's countenance with her handkerchief . 
The eyes that saw her do this followed her , as she turned away from her pious office , and were thus led to the place where Nicholas Higgins stood , like one rooted to the spot . 
`` Papa , do you go , '' said Margaret , in a low voice . 
`` If I could -- if I had time to think of what I had better say ; but all at once -- '' Margaret saw that her father was indeed unable . 
`` I will go , '' said she . 
Margaret knocked at the closed door ; but there was such a noise , as of many little ill-ordered children , that she could hear no reply ; indeed , she doubted if she was heard , and as every moment of delay made her recoil from her task more and more , she opened the door and went in , shutting it after her , and even , unseen to the woman , fastening the bolt . 
Margaret said something , she hardly knew what , her throat and mouth were so dry , and the children 's noise completely prevented her from being heard . 
She tried again . 
`` I 've no chance o ' being well , '' said she querulously . 
He might -- '' `` Oh , do n't blame him , '' said Margaret . 
She apologetically continued to Margaret , `` He 's always mithering me for ` daddy ' and ` butty ; ' and I ha ' no butties to give him , and daddy 's away , and forgotten us a ' , I think . 
He 's his father 's darling , he is , '' said she , with a sudden turn of mood , and , dragging the child up to her knee , she began kissing it fondly . 
Margaret laid her hand on the woman 's arm to arrest her attention . 
said Margaret , slowly ; `` he was his father 's darling . '' 
`` He is his father 's darling , '' said the woman , rising hastily , and standing face to face with Margaret . 
Weak , as she was , she shook Margaret to force out an answer . 
said she , understanding the meaning of that tearful look . 
She sank back into the chair . 
Margaret took up the child and put him into her arms . 
`` He loved him , '' said she . 
Margaret saved her from falling by catching her in her arms . 
She sate down in the rocking-chair , and held the woman upon her knees , her head lying on Margaret 's shoulder . 
They set up such a cry of despair as they guessed the truth , that Margaret knew not how to bear it . 
The mother quivered as she lay in Margaret 's arms . 
Margaret heard a noise at the door . 
Open it quick , '' said she to the eldest child . 
This helpful neighbour was a great relief to Margaret ; she was evidently a stranger to the house , a new comer in the district , indeed ; but she was so kind and thoughtful that Margaret felt she was no longer needed ; and that it would be better , perhaps , to set an example of clearing the house , which was filled with idle , if sympathising gazers . 
She looked round for Nicholas Higgins . 
So she spoke to the woman who had taken the lead in placing Mrs. Boucher on the floor . 
Margaret was kneeling down by Mrs. Boucher and bathing her face with vinegar ; but in a few minutes she was surprised at the gush of fresh air . 
She looked round , and saw a smile pass between her father and the woman . 
asked she . 
`` Only our good friend here , '' replied her father , `` hit on a capital expedient for clearing the place . '' 
`` No , '' said Margaret ; `` I could not tell her all at once . '' 
`` No ; you , you , '' said Margaret . 
They awaited her perfect recovery in silence . 
moaned the widow , less distressed at the manner of the death than Margaret expected ; but it was of a piece with her helpless character to feel his loss as principally affecting herself and her children . 
`` I 'll go for it , '' said Margaret . 
And in a few minutes she returned , carrying Johnnie , his face all smeared with eating , and his hands loaded with treasures in the shape of shells , and bits of crystal , and the head of a plaster figure . 
She placed him in his mother 's arms . 
As Margaret and her father went slowly up the street , she paused at Higgins 's closed door . 
asked her father . 
said Margaret . 
said Margaret again . 
Mr. Hale would have urged their desire , but Margaret placed her finger on his lips . 
`` I do n't wonder at it , '' said she . 
Margaret tried to make acquaintances with one or two of them , while her father strove to raise the widow 's thoughts into some higher channel than that of mere helpless querulousness . 
She found that the children were truer and simpler mourners than the widow . 
Margaret 's heart bled to hear that the mother , in her selfish requirement of sympathy , had taken her children upstairs to see their disfigured father . 
Margaret was more successful than Mr. Hale in her efforts . 
The children seeing their little duties lie in action close around them , began to try each one to do something that she suggested towards redding up the slatternly room . 
But her father set too high a standard , and too abstract a view , before the indolent invalid . 
She could not rouse her torpid mind into any vivid imagination of what her husband 's misery might have been before he had resorted to the last terrible step ; she could only look upon it as it affected herself ; she could not enter into the enduring mercy of the God who had not specially interposed to prevent the water from drowning her prostrate husband ; and although she was secretly blaming her husband for having fallen into such drear despair , and denying that he had any excuse for his last rash act , she was inveterate in her abuse of all who could by any possibility be supposed to have driven him to such desperation . 
Margaret heard enough of this unreasonableness to dishearten her ; and when they came away she found it impossible to cheer her father . 
`` It is the town life , '' said she . 
`` Yes , that it was , '' said Margaret , brightly , `` It was such a charming , snatched , forbidden thing . '' 
But she suddenly stopped speaking . 
She had spoiled the remembrance of Frederick 's visit to herself by her own cowardice . 
Of all faults the one she most despised in others was the want of bravery ; the meanness of heart which leads to untruth . 
And here had she been guilty of it ! 
Then came the thought of Mr. Thornton 's cognisance of her falsehood , She wondered if she should have minded detection half so much from any one else . 
She tried herself in imagination with her Aunt Shaw and Edith ; with her father ; with Captain and Mr. Lennox ; with Frederick . 
The thought of the last knowing what she had done , even in his own behalf , was the most painful , for the brother and sister were in the first flush of their mutual regard and love ; but even any fall in Frederick 's opinion was as nothing to the shame , the shrinking shame she felt at the thought of meeting Mr. Thornton again . 
`` I will go and inquire , papa , '' said Margaret , after the changes on these sentences had been rung once or twice . 
She sate down instantly , and bent her head attentively over her work . 
She heard a step on the stairs , but it was only one , and she knew it was Dixon 's . 
She lifted up her head and sighed , and believed she felt glad . 
said he , slicking his hair down when he came into the room : `` If hoo ' l excuse me -LRB- looking at Margaret -RRB- for being i ' my stockings ; I ` se been tramping a ' day , and streets is none o ' th ' cleanest . '' 
Margaret thought that fatigue might account for the change in his manner , for he was unusually quiet and subdued ; and he had evidently some difficulty in saying what he came to say . 
Margaret my dear , ca n't you hasten tea ? '' 
Margaret could only hasten tea by taking the preparation of it into her own hands , and so offending Dixon , who was emerging out of her sorrow for her late mistress into a very touchy , irritable state . 
But Martha , like all who came in contact with Margaret -- even Dixon herself , in the long run -- felt it a pleasure and an honour to forward any of her wishes ; and her readiness , and Margaret 's sweet forbearance , soon made Dixon ashamed of herself . 
After Margaret left the room , he went to the door and assured himself that it was shut . 
`` Miss there '' -- for Margaret had re-entered the room , and stood silent , listening -- `` has often talked grand o ' the South , and the ways down there . 
`` Well , I reckon I could spade a bit -- '' `` And for that , '' said Margaret , stepping forwards , `` for anything you could do , Higgins , with the best will in the world , you would , may be , get nine shillings a week ; may be ten , at the outside . 
`` You must not go to the South , '' said Margaret , `` for all that . 
said he , more convinced by his own presentation of the facts than by all Margaret had said , and suddenly renouncing the idea , which had but recently formed itself in a brain worn out by the day 's fatigue and anxiety . 
Mr. Hale was busy cutting bread and butter ; Margaret was glad of this , for she saw that Higgins was better left to himself : that if her father began to speak ever so mildly on the subject of Higgins 's thoughts , the latter would consider himself challenged to an argument , and would feel himself bound to maintain his own ground . 
She and her father kept up an indifferent conversation until Higgins , scarcely aware whether he ate or not , had made a very substantial meal . 
Suddenly , Margaret said -LRB- she had been thinking of it for some time , but the words had stuck in her throat -RRB- , `` Higgins , have you been to Marlborough Mills to seek for work ? '' 
`` But I wish you had seen Mr. Thornton , '' repeated Margaret . 
Margaret still looked at Higgins for his answer . 
`` All the more do I thank you , '' said Margaret , smiling . 
`` You 'll find your shoes by the kitchen fire ; I took them there to dry , '' said Margaret . 
He turned round and looked at her steadily , and then he brushed his lean hand across his eyes and went his way . 
said her father , who was a little annoyed at the manner in which Higgins had declined his intercession with Mr. Thornton . 
`` He is , '' said Margaret ; `` but what grand makings of a man there are in him , pride and all . '' 
If he and Mr. Thornton would speak out together as man to man -- if Higgins would forget that Mr. Thornton was a master , and speak to him as he does to us -- and if Mr. Thornton would be patient enough to listen to him with his human heart , not with his master 's ears -- '' `` You are getting to do Mr. Thornton justice at last , Margaret , '' said her father , pinching her ear . 
Margaret had a strange choking at her heart , which made her unable to answer . 
thought she , `` I wish I were a man , that I could go and force him to express his disapprobation , and tell him honestly that I knew I deserved it . 
How tender he was with dear mammal If it were only for her sake , I wish he would come , and then at least I should know how much I was abased in his eyes . '' 
It was not merely that Margaret was known to Mr. Thornton to have spoken falsely , -- though she imagined that for this reason only was she so turned in his opinion , -- but that this falsehood of hers bore a distinct reference in his mind to some other lover . 
He could not forget the fond and earnest look that had passed between her and some other man -- the attitude of familiar confidence , if not of positive endearment . 
His nobler self had said at first , that all this last might be accidental , innocent , justifiable ; but once allow her right to love and be beloved -LRB- and had he any reason to deny her right ? 
-- had not her words been severely explicit when she cast his love away from her ? -RRB- 
, she might easily have been beguiled into a longer walk , on to a later hour than she had anticipated . 
which showed a fatal consciousness of something wrong , and to be conceled , which was unlike her . 
He did her that justice , though all the time it would have been a relief to believe her utterly unworthy of his esteam . 
It was this that made the misery -- that he passionately loved her , and thought her , even with all her faults , more lovely and more excellent than any other woman ; yet he deemed her so attached to some other man , so led away by her affection for him , as to violate her truthful nature . 
The very falsehood that stained her , was a proof how blindly she loved another -- this dark , slight , elegant , handsome man -- while he himself was rough , and stern , and strongly made . 
-- how he would have laid his life at her feet for such tender glances , such fond detention ! 
He mocked at himself for having valued the mechanical way in which she had protected him from the fury of the mob ; now he had seen how soft and bewitching she looked when with a man she really loved . 
He remembered , point by point , the sharpness of her words -- `` There was not a man in all that crowd for whom she would not have done as much , far more readily than for him . '' 
He shared with the mob , in her desire of averting bloodshed from them ; but this man , this hidden lover , shared with nobody ; he had looks , words , hand-cleavings , lies , concealment , all to himself . 
Oh , Margaret , Margaret ! 
Margaret , could you not have loved me ? 
The more Mrs. Thornton thought over what her son had said , in pleading for a merciful judgment for Margaret 's indiscretion , the more bitterly she felt inclined towards her . 
She took a savage pleasure in the idea of `` speaking her mind '' to her , in the guise of a fulfilment of a duty . 
She enjoyed the thought of showing herself untouched by the `` glamour , '' which she was well aware Margaret had the power of throwing over many people . 
She snorted scronfully over the picture of the beauty of her victim ; her jet black hair , her clear smooth skin , her lucid eyes would not help to save her one word of the just and stern reproach which Mrs. Thornton spent half the night in preparing to her mind . 
Margaret was sitting alone , writing to Edith , and giving her many particulars of her mother 's last days . 
It was a softening employment , and she had to brush away the unbidden tears as Mrs. Thornton was announced . 
Margaret 's low rich voice was softer than usual ; her manner more gracious , because in her heart she was feeling very grateful to Mrs. Thornton for the courteous attention of her call . 
Poor Margaret ! 
Margaret stood before her , blushing like any culprit , with her eyes dilating as she gazed at Mrs. Thornton . 
It was indiscreet , to say the least ; many a young woman has lost her character before now -- '' Margaret 's eyes flashed fire . 
Mrs. Thornton saw the battle-spirit in Margaret 's eyes , and it called up her combativeness also . 
`` For my mother 's sake , '' said Margaret , in a tearful voice , `` I will bear much ; but I can not bear everything . 
`` Yes , madam , '' said Margaret more steadily , `` it is insult . 
said she , breaking down , and covering her face with her hands -- `` I know now , Mr. Thornton has told you -- '' `` No , Miss Hale , '' said Mrs. Thornton , her truthfulness causing her to arrest the confession Margaret was on the point of making , though her curiosity was itching to hear it . 
Margaret 's face was still hidden in her hands , the fingers of which were wet with tears . 
Margaret was considering what to say ; she wished to stand well with Mrs. Thornton ; and yet she could not , might not , give any explauation . 
`` I shall be sorry to break off an acquaintance ; but for Fanny 's sake -- as I told my son , if Fanny had done so we should consider it a great disgarce -- and Fanny might be led away -- '' `` I can give you no explanation , '' said Margaret , in a low voice . 
Margaret winced , and drew in her breath with a long , hissing sound ; of which , however , Mrs. Thornton took no notice . 
asked Margaret , throwing her head back with proud disdain , till her throat curved outwards like a swan 's . 
She was not particularly annoyed at Margaret 's way of behaving . 
She did not care enough for her for that . 
She had taken Mrs. Thornton 's remonstrance to the full as keenly to heart as that lady expected : and Margaret 's passion at once mollified her visitor . 
It showed the effect of her words . 
But he had promised Margaret to do it at any cost . 
Margaret shut herself up in her own room , after she had quitted Mrs. Thornton . 
She began to walk backwards and forwards , in her old habitual way of showing agitation ; but , then , remembering that in that slightly-built house every step was heard from one room to another , she sate down until she heard Mrs. Thornton go safely out of the house . 
`` No , papa ; I have not , '' said Margaret , reddening , `` I never thought about her . 
Accordingly Margaret went . 
Margaret thought that she should like to know his opinion , and that she could not do better than go and see the Higginses in the meantime . 
She might then possibly hear whether Nicholas had been able to make his application to Mr. Thornton . 
She found Nicholas busily engaged in making a penny spin on the dresser , for the amusement of three little children , who were clinging to him in a fearless manner . 
He , as well as they , was smilling at a good long spin ; and Margaret thought , that the happy look of interest in his occupation was a good sign . 
`` Come to me , '' said Margaret , taking him off the dresser , and holding him in her arms ; she held her watch to his ear , while she asked Nicholas if he had seen Mr. Thornton . 
said Margaret , sorrowfully . 
asked Margaret . 
Margaret put the struggling Johnnie out of her arms , back into his former place on the dresser . 
There was a slight noise behind her . 
Both she and Nicholas turned round at the same moment , and there stood Mr. Thornton , with a look of displeased surprise upon his face . 
Obeying her swift impulse , Margaret passed out before him , saying not a word , only bowing low to hide the sudden paleness that she felt had come over her face . 
He bent equally low in return , and then closed the door after her . 
As she hurried to Mrs. Boucher 's , she heard the clang , and it seemed to fill up the measure of her mortification . 
He too was annoyed to find her there . 
He came to tell Higgins he would give him work ; and he was more annoyed to find Margaret there than by hearing her last words ; for then he understood that she was the woman who had urged Higgins to come to him ; and he dreaded the admission of any thought of her , as a motive to what he was doing solely because it was right . 
Just before Mr. Thornton came up to Mrs. Boucher 's door , Margaret came out of it . 
She did not see him ; and he followed her for several yards , admiring her light and easy walk , and her tall and graceful figure . 
He wished to overtake her , and speak to her , to see how she would receive him , now she must know he was aware of some other attachment . 
He wished too , but of this wish he was rather ashamed , that she should know that he had justified her wisdom in sending Higgins to him to ask for work , and had repented him of his morning 's decision . 
He came up to her . 
She started . 
`` I am glad of it , '' said she , coldly . 
Margaret took it up : `` About women not meddling . 
But , '' she went on a little more eagerly , `` Higgins did not quite tell you the exact truth . '' 
The word `` truth , '' reminded her of her own untruth , and she stopped short , feeling execedingly uncomfortable . 
Mr. Thornton at first was puzzled to account for her silence ; and then he remembered the lie she had told , and all that was foregone . 
Margaret was silent . 
She was wondering whether an explanation of any kind would be consistent with her loyalty to Frederick . 
`` I am aware of that , '' said Margaret , forcing herself to speak in an indifferent , careless way . 
`` Yes , '' said Margaret , quietly and sadly . 
thought Margaret -- `` what could he mean by speaking so , as if I were always thinking that he cared for me , when I know he does not ; he can not . 
Her father was almost startled by her merriment this afternoon . 
She talked incessantly , and forced her natural humour to an unusual pitch ; and if there was a tinge of bitterness in much of what she said ; if her accounts of the old Harley Street set were a little sarcastic , her father could not bear to check her , as he would have done at another time -- for he was glad to see her shake off her cares . 
In the middle of the evening , she was called down to speak to Mary Higgins ; and when she came back , Mr. Hale imagined that he saw traces of tears on her cheeks . 
Mr. Hale received a letter from Mr. Bell , in which that gentleman volunteered a visit to them ; and Mr. Hale imagined that the promised society of his old Oxford friend would give as agreeable a turn to Margaret 's ideas as it did to his own . 
Margaret tried to take an interest in what pleased her father ; but she was too languid to care about any Mr. Bell , even though he were twenty times her godfather . 
She was more ronsed by a letter from Edith , full of sympathy about her aunt 's death ; full of deatails about herself , her husband , and child ; and at the end saying , that as the climate did not suit the baby , and as Mrs. Shaw was talking of returning to England , she thought it probable that Captain Lennox might sell out , and that they might all go and live again in the old Harley Street house ; which , however , would seem very incomplete without Margaret . 
Margaret yearned after that old house , and the placid tranquillity of that old well-ordered , monotonous life . 
She had found it occasionally tiresome while it lasted ; but since then she had been buffeted about , and felt so exhausted by this recent struggle with herself , that she thought that even stagnation would be a rest and a refreshment . 
So she began to look towards a long visit to the Lennoxes , on their return to England , as to a point -- no , not of hope -- but of leisur , in which she could regain her power and command over herself . 
At present it seemed to her as if all subjects tended towards Mr. Thornton ; as if she could not forget him with all her endeavours . 
If she went to see the Higginses , she heard of him there ; her father had resumed their readings together , and quoted his opinions perpetually ; even Mr. Bell 's visit brought his tenant 's name upon the tapis ; for he wrote word that he believed he must be occupied some great part of his time with Mr. Thornton , as a new lease was in preparation , and the terms of it must be agreed upon . 
Margaret had not expected much pleasure to herself from Mr. Bell 's visit -- she had only looked forward to it on her father 's account , but when her godfather came , she at once fell into the most natural position of friendship in the world . 
He said she had no merit in being what she was , a girl so entirely after his own heart ; it was an hereditary power which she had , to walk in and take possession of his regard ; while she , in reply , gave him much credit for being so fresh and young under his Fellow 's cap and gown . 
asked Margaret . 
If you 'll only come to Oxford , Margaret , I will show you a place to glory in . '' 
asked Margaret in a low voice . 
Mr. Thornton had determined that he would make no inquiry of his mother as to how far she had put her project into execution of speaking to Margaret about the impropriety of her conduct . 
He shrank from hearing Margaret 's very name mentioned ; he , while he blamed her -- while he was jealous of her -- while he renounced her -- he loved her sorely , in spite of himself . 
He dreamt of her ; he dreamt she came dancing towards him with outspread arms , and with a lightness and gaiety which made him loathe her , even while it allured him . 
But the impression of this figure of Margaret -- with all Margaret 's character taken out of it , as completely as if some evil spirit had got possession of her form -- was so deeply stamped upon his imagination , that when he wakened he felt hardly able to separate the Una from the Duessa ; and the dislike he had to the latter seemed to envelope and disfigure the former . 
They found Margaret with a letter open before her , eagerly discussing its contents with her father . 
It makes Margaret very hopeful . '' 
Margaret was red as a rose when Mr. Thornton looked at her . 
`` We were thinking , '' said Mr. Hale , `` that you and Mr. Thornton had taken Margaret 's advice , and were each trying to convert the other , you were so long in the study . '' 
`` Mr. Thornton , we were accusing Mr. Bell this morning of a kind of Oxonian medival bigotry against his native town ; and we -- Margaret , I believe -- suggested that it would do him good to associate a little with Milton manufacturers . '' 
Margaret thought it would do the Milton manufacturers good to associate a little more with Oxford men . 
Now was n't it so , Margaret ? '' 
What do you say , Margaret ; ought I to be flattered ? '' 
`` Very true , Miss Margaret . 
Margaret saw the quick glance of surprise that Mr. Thornton gave her , and she was annoyed at the construction which he might put on this speech of Mr. Bell 's . 
Margaret felt , rather than saw , that Mr. Thornton was chagrined by the repeated turning into jest of what he was feeling as very serious . 
She tried to change the conversation from a subject about which one party cared little , while , to the other , it was deeply , because personally , interesting . 
She forced herself to say something . 
said her father . 
Are you sure of it , Margaret ? '' 
`` I am sure she says so , papa . '' 
`` Then I am sure of the fact , '' said Mr. Bell , `` Margaret , I go so far in my idea of your truthfulness , that it shall cover your cousin 's character . 
And why should he stab her with her shame in this way ? 
How evil he was to-night ; possessed by ill-humour at being detained so long from her ; irritated by the mention of some name , because he thought it belonged to a more successful love ; now ill-tempered because he had been unable to cope , with a light heart , against one who was trying , by gay and careless speeches , to make the evening pass pleasantly away , -- the kind old friend to all parties , whose manner by this time might be well known to Mr. Thornton , who had been acquainted with him for many years . 
And then to speak to Margaret as he had done ! 
She did not get up and leave the room , as she had done in former days , when his abruptness or his temper had annoyed her . 
She sat quite still , after the first momentary glance of grieved surprise , that made her eyes look like some child 's who has met with an unexpected rebuff ; they slowly dilated into mournful , reproachful sadness ; and then they fell , and she bent over her work , and did not speak again . 
But he could not help looking at her , and he saw a sigh tremble over her body , as if she quivered in some unwonted chill . 
He felt as the mother would have done , in the midst of `` her rocking it , and rating it , '' had she been called away before her slow confiding smile , implying perfect trust in mother 's love , had proved the renewing of its love . 
But she neither looked nor spoke . 
Her round taper fingers flew in and out of her sewing , as steadily and swiftly as if that were the business of her life . 
She could not care for him , he thought , or else the passionate fervour of his wish would have forced her to raise those eyes , if but for an instant , to read the late repentance in his . 
He could have struck her before he left , in order that by some strange overt act of rudeness , he might earn the privilege of telling her the remorse that gnawed at his heart . 
It sobered him back into grave resolution , that henceforth he would see as little of her as possible , -- since the very sight of that face and form , the very sounds of that voice -LRB- like the soft winds of pure melody -RRB- had such power to move him form his balance . 
When he had somewhat abruptly left the room , Margaret rose from her seat , and began silently to fold up her work . 
The long seams were heavy , and had an unusual weight for her languid arms . 
The round lines on her face took a lengthened , straighter form , and her whole appearance was that of one who had gone through a day of great fatigue . 
`` He is not vain now , '' said Margaret , turning round from the table , and speaking with quiet distinctness . 
Mr. Bell gave her one of his sharp glances from above his spectacles . 
She stood it quite calmly ; but after she had left the room , he suddenly asked , -- `` Hale ! 
-- why , Margaret would never think of him , I 'm sure ! 
Such a thing has never entered her head . '' 
`` Entering her heart would do . 
Mr. Bell took his leave the next day , bidding Margaret look to him as one who had a right to help and protect her in all her troubles , of whatever nature they might be . 
To Mr. Hale he said , -- `` That Margaret of yours has gone deep into my heart . 
Take care of her , for she is a very precious creature , -- a great deal too good for Milton , -- only fit for Oxford , in fact . 
I ca n't match her yet . 
Remember the misfortunes that ensued ; and besides , I ca n't spare Margaret . '' 
`` No ; on second thoughts , we 'll have her to nurse us ten years hence , when we shall be two cross old invalids . 
If you would , I 'd swallow my shadows of doubts , and take a college living ; and you and Margaret should come and live at the parsonage -- you to be a sort of lay curate , and take the unwashed off my hands ; and she to be our housekeeper -- the village Lady Bountiful -- by day ; and read us to sleep in the evenings . 
Come , Margaret , give me a farewell kiss ; and remember , my dear , where you may find a true friend , as far as his capability goes . 
You are my child , Margaret . 
The Boucher children , left motherless orphans , claimed what of Margaret 's care she could bestow ; and she went pretty often to see Mary Higgins , who had charge of them . 
The two families were living in one house : the elder children were at humble schools , the younger ones were tended , in Mary 's absence at her work , by the kind neighbour whose good sense had struck Margaret at the time of Boucher 's death . 
Of course she was paid for her trouble ; and indeed , in all his little plans and arrangements for these orphan children , Nicholas showed a sober judgment , and regulated method of thinking , which were at variance with his former more eccentric jerks of action . 
He was so steady at his work , that Margaret did not often see him during these winter months ; but when she did , she saw that he winced away from any reference to the father of those children , whom he had so fully and heartily taken under his care . 
`` What are they '' -- began Mr. Hale ; but Margaret , touching his arm , showed him her watch . 
`` It is nearly seven , '' she said . 
She did not breathe freely till they were some distance from the house . 
Then , as she became more calm , she wished that she had not been in so great a hurry ; for , somehow , they saw Mr. Thornton but very seldom now ; and he might have come to see Higgins , and for the old friendship 's sake she should like to have seen him to-night . 
He startled Margaret , one evening as she sate at her work , by suddenly asking : `` Margaret ! 
Margaret did not answer immediately ; but by the bent drooping of her head , he guessed what her reply would be . 
And she dropped her work , and hid her face in her hands . 
But before her father could speak , Margaret lifted up her face , rosy with some beautiful shame , and , fixing her eyes upon him , said : `` Now , papa , I have told you this , and I can not tell you more ; and then the whole thing is so painful to me ; every word and action connected with it is so unspeakably bitter , that I can not bear to think of it . 
She sate down on the ground , and laid her head on his knees . 
But , on stroking her cheek in a caressing way soon after , he was almost shocked to find her face wet with tears . 
As he touched her , she sprang up , and smiling with forced brightness , began to talk of the Lennoxes with such a vehement desire to turn the conversation , that Mr. Hale was too tender-hearted to try to force it back into the old channel . 
`` I 'll tell you what , '' said her father anxious to indulge her in this fresh subject of interest , `` I think I must spare you for a fortnight just to run up to town and see the travellers . 
Then , after a pause , she added : `` I am losing hope sadly about Frederick ; he is letting us down gently , but I can see that Mr. Lennox himself has no hope of hunting up the witnesses under years and years of time . 
No , '' said she , `` that bubble was very pretty , and very dear to our hearts ; but it has burst like many another ; and we must console ourselves with being glad that Frederick is so happy , and with being a great deal to each other . 
But the idea of a change took root and germinated in Margaret 's heart , although not in the way in which her father proposed it at first . 
She began to consider how desirable something of the kind would be to her father , whose spirits , always feeble , now became too frequently depressed , and whose health , though he never complained , had been seriously affected by his wife 's illness and death . 
Margaret was conscious of the want under which he was suffering , unknown to himself ; the want of a man 's intercourse with men . 
Mr. Hale thought of trying to deliver a course of lectures at some of the institutions , but he contemplated doing this so much as an effort of duty , and with so little of the genial impulse of love towards his work and its end , that Margaret was sure that it would not be well done until he could look upon it with some kind of zest . 
And from what Margaret could gather of what Mr. Thornton had said , there was nothing in the cessation of his visits which could arise from any umbrage or vexation . 
Nay , Margaret could even discover that he spoke from to time of her , and always , as far as she could learn , in the same calm friendly way , never avoiding and never seeking any mention of her name . 
She was not in spirits to raise her father 's tone of mind . 
The dreary peacefulness of the present time had been preceded by so long a period of anxiety and care -- even intermixed with storms -- that her mind had lost its elasticity . 
She tried to find herself occupation in teaching the two younger Boucher children , and worked hard at goodness ; hard , I say most truly , for her heart seemed dead to the end of all her efforts ; and though she made them punctually and painfully , yet she stood as far off as ever from any cheerfulness ; her life seemed still bleak and dreary . 
The only thing she did well , was what she did out of unconscious piety , the silent comforting and consoling of her father . 
Not a mood of his but what found a ready sympathiser in Margaret ; not a wish of his that she did not strive to forecast , and to fulfil . 
All the more complete and beautiful was her meek spirit of obedience . 
On the receipt of Henry Lennox 's letter , announcing how little hope there was of his ever clearing himself at a court-martial , in the absence of the missing witnesses , Frederick had written to Margaret a pretty vehement letter , containing his renunciation of England as his country ; he wished he could unnative himself , and declared that he would not take his pardon if it were offered him , nor live in the country if he had permission to do so . 
All of which made Margaret cry sorely , so unnatural did it seem to her at the first opening ; but on consideration , she saw rather in such expression the poignancy of the disappointment which had thus crushed his hopes ; and she felt that there was nothing for it but patience . 
In the next letter , Frederick spoke so joyfully of the future that he had no thought for the past ; and Margaret found a use in herself for the patience she had been craving for him . 
She would have to be patient . 
But the pretty , timid , girlish letters of Dolores were beginning to have a charm for both Margaret and her father . 
The young Spaniard was so evidently anxious to make a favourable impression upon her lover 's English relations , that her feminine care peeped out at every erasure ; and the letters announcing the marriage , were accompanied by a splendid black lace mantilla , chosen by Dolores herself for her unseen sister-in-law , whom Frederick had represented as a paragon of beauty , wisdom and virtue . 
Margaret smiled a little , and then sighed as she remembered afresh her old tirades against trade . 
Here was her preux chevalier of a brother turned merchant , trader ! 
But then she rebelled against herself , and protested silently against the confusion implied between a Spanish merchant and a Milton millowner . 
Margaret was less alarmed , as this difficulty went off completely in the intervals ; but she still was so desirous of his shaking off the liability altogether , as to make her very urgent that he should accept Mr. Bell 's invitation to visit him at Oxford this April . 
Mr. Bell 's invitation included Margaret . 
Nay more , he wrote a special letter commanding her to come ; but she felt as if it would be a greater relief to her to remain quietly at home , entirely free from any responsibility whatever , and so to rest her mind and heart in a manner which she had not been able to do for more than two years past . 
When her father had driven off on his way to the railroad , Margaret felt how great and long had been the pressure on her time and her spirits . 
It was astonishing , almost stunning , to feel herself so much at liberty ; no one depending on her for cheering care , if not for positive happiness ; no invalid to plan and think for ; she might be idle , and silent , and forgetful , -- and what seemed worth more than all the other privileges -- she might be unhappy if she liked . 
For months past , all her own personal cares and troubles had had to be stuffed away into a dark cupboard ; but now she had leisure to take them out , and mourn over them , and study their nature and seek the true method of subduing them into the elements of peace . 
All these weeks she had been conscious of their existence in a dull kind of way , though they were hidden out of sight . 
Now , once for all she would consider them , and appoint to each of them its right work in her life . 
So she sat almost motionless for hours in the drawing-room , going over the bitterness of every remembrance with an unwincing resolution . 
Only once she cried aloud , at the stinging thought of the faithlessness which gave birth to that abasing falsehood . 
She now would not even acknowledge the force of the temptation ; her plans for Frederick had all failed , and the temptation lay there a dead mockery , -- a mockery which had never had life in it ; the lie had been so despicably foolish , seen by the light of the ensuing events , and faith in the power of truth so infinitely the greater wisdom ! 
In her nervous agitation , she unconsciously opened a book of her father 's that lay upon the table , -- the words that caught her eye in it , seemed almost made for her present state of acute self-abasement : -- `` Je ne voudrois pas reprendre mon coeur en ceste sorte : meurs de honte , aveugle , impudent , traistre et desloyal  ton Dieu , et sembables choses ; mais je voudrois le corriger par voye de compassion . 
Ah , '' thought Margaret , `` that is what I have missed ! 
So she rose up , and determined at once to set to on some work which should take her out of herself . 
To begin with she called in Martha , as she passed the drawing-room door in going upstairs , and tried to find out what was below the grave , respectful , servant-like manner , which crusted over her individual character with an obedience that was almost mechanical . 
exclaimed Margaret . 
At this piece of information , Margaret was silent long enough for Martha to recover her propriety , and , with it , her habitual shortness of answer . 
Margaret had to pull herself up from indulging a bad trick , which she had lately fallen into , of trying to imagine how every event that she heard of in relation to Mr. Thornton would affect him : whether he would like it or dislike it . 
The next day she had the little Boucher children for their lessons , and took a long walk , and ended by a visit to Mary Higgins . 
Somewhat to Margaret 's surprise , she found Nicholas already come home from his work ; the lengthening light had deceived her as to the lateness of the evening . 
asked Margaret innocently . 
When Margaret had duly applauded , Nicholas called for another , and yet another , much to her surprise , as she found him thus oddly and unconsciously led to take an interest in the sacred things which he had formerly scouted . 
It was past the usual tea-time when she reached home ; but she had the comfort of feeling that no one had been kept waiting for her ; and of thinking her own thoughts while she rested , instead of anxiously watching another person to learn whether to be grave or gay . 
After tea she resolved to examine a large packet of letters , and pick out those that were to be destroyed . 
Among them she came to four or five of Mr. Henry Lennox 's , relating to Frederick 's affairs ; and she carefully read them over again , with the sole intention , when she began , to ascertain exactly on how fine a chance the justification of her brother hung . 
But when she had finished the last , and weighed the pros and cons , the little personal revelation of character contained in them forced itself on her notice . 
It was evident enough , from the stiffness of the wording , that Mr. Lennox had never forgotten his relation to her in any interest he might feel in the subject of the correspondence . 
They were clever letters ; Margaret saw that in a twinkling ; but she missed out of them all hearty and genial atmosphere . 
They were to be preserved , however , as valuable ; so she laid them carefully on one side . 
When this little piece of business was ended , she fell into a reverie ; and the thought of her absent father ran strangely in Margaret 's head this night . 
She almost blamed herself for having felt her solitude -LRB- and consequently his absence -RRB- as a relief ; but these two days had set her up afresh , with new strength and brighter hope . 
Plans which had lately appeared to her in the guise of tasks , now appeared like pleasures . 
The morbid scales had fallen from her eyes , and she saw her position and her work more truly . 
If only Mr. Thornton would restore her the lost friendship , -- nay , if he would only come from time to time to cheer her father as in former days , -- though she should never see him , she felt as if the course of her future life , though not brilliant in prospect , might lie clear and even before her . 
She sighed as she rose up to go to bed . 
In spite of the `` One step 's enough for me , '' -- in spite of the one plain duty of devotion to her father , -- there lay at her heart an anxiety and a pang of sorrow . 
And Mr. Hale thought of Margaret , that April evening , just as strangely and as persistently as she was thinking of him . 
`` About Margaret . '' 
about Margaret . 
`` What will become of her -- I often think ? 
I suppose the Lennoxes will ask her to live with them . 
Her aunt Shaw loved her well in her own quiet way ; but she forgets to love the absent . '' 
`` He , handsome , fluent , and agreeable . 
Margaret loves her with all her heart , and Edith with as much of her heart as she can spare . '' 
`` Margaret you mean . 
But I take Margaret as my child for his sake . 
I said last night I would take her for her own sake . 
Well , I take her for both . '' 
Mr. Thornton made one or two fruitless attempts to speak , before he could get out the words : `` What will become of her ! '' 
`` I rather fancy there will be two people waiting for her : myself for one . 
I would take a live dragon into my house to live , if , by hiring such a chaperon , and setting up an establishment of my own , I could make my old age happy with having Margaret for a daughter . 
`` Oh , smart London people , who very likely will think they 've the best right to her . 
Captain Lennox married her cousin -- the girl she was brought up with . 
And there 's her aunt , Mrs. Shaw . 
`` No , no ; a clever Lennox , -LRB- the captain 's a fool , you must understand -RRB- ; a young barrister , who will be setting his cap at Margaret . 
I know he has had her in his mind this five years or more : one of his chums told me as much ; and he was only kept back by her want of fortune . 
`` Why , she 'll have my money at my death . 
And if this Henry Lennox is half good enough for her , and she likes him -- well ! 
He took up his newspaper with a determined air , as if resolved to avoid further conversation ; and Mr. Bell was fain to resort to his former occupation of trying to find out how he could best break the news to Margaret . 
She was at an up-stairs window ; she saw him alight ; she guessed the truth with an instinctive flash . 
She stood in the middle of the drawing-room , as if arrested in her first impulse to rush down-stairs , and as if by the same restraining thought she had been turned to stone ; so white , and immoveable was she . 
Margaret fell into a state of prostration , which did not show itself in sobs and tears , or even find the relief of words . 
She lay on the sofa , with her eyes shut , never speaking but when spoken to , and then replying in whispers . 
He dared not leave her ; he dared not ask her to accompany him back to Oxford , which had been one of the plans he had formed on the journey to Milton , her physical exhaustion was evidently too complete for her to undertake any such fatigue -- putting the sight that she would have to encounter out of the question . 
Margaret lay motionless , and almost breathless by him . 
He would not leave her , even for the dinner which Dixon had prepared for him down-stairs , and , with sobbing hospitality , would fain have tempted him to eat . 
He minced up some of the fowl for Margaret , and peppered and salted it well ; but when Dixon , following his directions , tried to feed her , the languid shake of head , proved that in such a state as Margaret was in , food would only choke , not nourish her . 
`` Yes , sir , she 's come back ; but I do n't think she will like to leave Mrs. Lennox at such an interesting time , '' said Dixon , who did not much approve of a stranger entering the household , to share with her in her ruling care of Margaret . 
And what does that little prosperous woman 's ` interesting time ' signify , in comparison with that poor creature there , -- that helpless , homeless , friendless , Margaret -- lying as still on that sofa as if it were an altar-tomb , and she the stone statue on it . 
If he had given her the option , by requesting or urging her , as if a refusal were possible , she might not have come -- true and sincere as was her sympathy with Margaret . 
It needed the sharp uncourteous command to make her conquer her vis inerti , and allow herself to be packed by her maid , after the latter had completed the boxes . 
Edith , all cap , shawls , and tears , came out to the top of the stairs , as Captain Lennox was taking her mother down to the carriage : `` Do n't forget , mamma ; Margaret must come and live with us . 
Do n't forget , mamma ; you are to bring back Margaret . '' 
Dear , darling Margaret ! 
wo n't it be nice to have her here , again ? 
But does n't it fall out well , that if my uncle was to die , it should be just now , when we are come home , and settled in the old house , and quite ready to receive Margaret ? 
what a change it will be to her from Milton ! 
I 'll have new chintz for her bedroom , and make it look new and bright , and cheer her up a little . '' 
In the same spirit of kindness , Mrs. Shaw journeyed to Milton , occasionally dreading the first meeting , and wondering how it would be got over ; but more frequently planning how soon she could get Margaret away from `` that horrid place , '' and back into the pleasant comforts of Harley Street . 
she said to her maid ; `` look at those chimneys ! 
I must have come and fetched her and Margaret away . '' 
And to herself she acknowledged , that she had always thought her brother-in-law rather a weak man , but never so weak as now when she saw for what a place he had exchanged the lovely Helstone home . 
Margaret had remained in the same state ; white motionless , speechless , tearless . 
They had told her that her Aunt Shaw was coming ; but she had not expressed either surprise or pleasure , or dislike to the idea . 
But Margaret was the first to hear the stopping of the cab that brought her aunt from the railway station . 
Her eyelids quivered , her lips coloured and trembled . 
Mr. Bell went down to meet Mrs. Shaw ; and when they came up , Margaret was standing , trying to steady her dizzy self ; and when she saw her aunt , she went forward to the arms open to receive her , and first found the passionate relief of tears on her aunt 's shoulder . 
All thoughts of quiet habitual love , of tenderness for years , of relationship to the dead , -- all that inexplicable likeness in look , tone , and gesture , that seem to belong to one family , and which reminded Margaret so forcibly at this moment of her mother , -- came in to melt and soften her numbed heart into the overflow of warm tears . 
It might be a change of employment form his two days ' work of watching Margaret , but it was no change of thought . 
Yet Margaret and her aunt must have the drawing-room to themselves ! '' 
`` Is Mrs. -- is her aunt come ? '' 
One would have thought she might have come by herself at such a time ! 
Mrs. Shaw is anxious to get home -- on account of her daughter , she says -- and wants Margaret to go off with her at once . 
Now she is no more fit for travelling than I am for flying . 
Besides , she says , and very justly , that she has friends she must see -- that she must wish good-bye to several people ; and then her aunt worried her about old claims , and was she forgetful of old friends ? 
And she said with a great burst of crying , she should be glad enough to go from a place where she had suffered so much . 
He paused , as if asking a question ; but he received no answer from his companion , the echo of whose thoughts kept repeating -- `` Where she had suffered so much . '' 
Do you know , '' said Mr. Bell , wheeling round , and shutting one eye , the better to bring the forces of the other to bear with keen scrutiny on Mr. Thornton 's face , `` that I once fancied you had a little tenderness for Margaret ? '' 
For though his heart leaped up , as at a trumpet-call , to every word that Mr. Bell had said , and though he knew that what he had said would henceforward bind the thought of the old Oxford Fellow closely up with the most precious things of his heart , yet he would not be forced into any expression of what he felt towards Margaret . 
She was sure Margaret would never regain her lost strength while she stayed in Milton ; and she herself was afraid of one of her old attacks of the nerves . 
Margaret must return with her , and that quickly . 
This , if not the exact force of her words , was at any rate the spirit of what she urged on Margaret , till the latter , weak , weary , and broken-spirited , yielded a reluctant promise that , as soon as Wednesday was over she would prepare to accompany her aunt back to town , leaving Dixon in charge of all the arrangements for paying bills , disposing of furniture , and shutting up the house . 
Before that Wednesday -- that mournful Wednesday , when Mr. Hale was to be interred , far away from either of the homes he had known in life , and far away from the wife who lay lonely among strangers -LRB- and this last was Margaret 's great trouble , for she thought that if she had not given way to that overwhelming stupor during the first sad days , she could have arranged things otherwise -RRB- -- before that Wednesday , Margaret received a letter from Mr. Bell . 
`` My Dear Margaret : -- I did mean to have returned to Milton on Thursday , but unluckily it turns out to be one of the rare occasions when we , Plymouth Fellows , are called upon to perform any kind of duty , and I must not be absent from my post . 
Now , Margaret , have you flown out before you have read this far , and wondered what right the old man has to settle your affairs for you so cavalierly ! 
Margaret took up a pen and scrawled with trembling hand , `` Margaret Hale is not the girl to say him nay . '' 
In her weak state she could not think of any other words , and yet she was vexed to use these . 
But she was so much fatigued even by this slight exertion , that if she could have thought of another form of acceptance , she could not have sate up to write a syllable of it . 
She was obliged to lie down again , and try not to think . 
said Margaret feebly . 
I have been very happy here , '' and Margaret closed her eyes by way of stopping the conversation . 
She petted Margaret in every possible way , and bought every delicacy , or soft luxury in which she herself would have burrowed and sought comfort . 
But Margaret was indifferent to all these things ; or , if they forced themselves upon her attention , it was simply as causes for gratitude to her aunt , who was putting herself so much out of her way to think of her . 
She was restless , though so weak . 
All the day long , she kept herself from thinking of the ceremony which was going on at Oxford , by wandering from room to room , and languidly setting aside such articles as she wished to retain . 
So Mrs. Shaw went to take care of Margaret , and took her maid with her to take care of the shawls and air-cushions . 
Margaret 's face was too sad to lighten up into a smile at all this preparation for paying two visits , that she had often made by herself at all hours of the day . 
She was half afraid of owning that one place to which she was going was Nicholas Higgins ' ; all she could do was to hope her aunt would be indisposed to get out of the coach , and walk up the court , and at every breath of wind have her face slapped by wet clothes , hanging out to dry on ropes stretched from house to house . 
There was a little battle in Mrs. Shaw 's mind between ease and a sense of matronly propriety ; but the former gained the day ; and with many an injunction to Margaret to be careful or herself , and not to catch any fever , such as was always lurking in such places , her aunt permitted her to go where she had often been before without taking any precaution or requiring any permission . 
Margaret was vexed with herself for not having timed her visit better . 
Mary had a very blunt intellect , although her feelings were warm and kind ; and the instant she understood what Margaret 's purpose was in coming to see them , she began to cry and sob with so little restraint that Margaret found it useless to say any of the thousand little things which had suggested themselves to her as she was coming along in the coach . 
She could only try to comfort her a little by suggesting the vague chance of their meeting again , at some possible time , in some possible place , and bid her tell her father how much she wished , if he could manage it , that he should come to see her when he had done his work in the evening . 
As she was leaving the place , she stopped and looked round ; then hesitated a little before she said : `` I should like to have some little thing to remind me of Bessy . '' 
And on Margaret 's singling out a little common drinking-cup , which she remembered as the one always standing by Bessy 's side with drink for her feverish lips , Mary said : `` Oh , take summut better ; that only cost four-pence ! '' 
`` That will do , thank you , '' said Margaret ; and she went quickly away , while the light caused by the pleasure of having something to give yet lingered on Mary 's face . 
There was some softening in her heart towards Margaret , now that she was going away out of her sight . 
She remembered her spirit , as shown at various times and places , even more than the patience with which she had endured long and wearing cares . 
Her countenance was blander than usual , as she greeted her ; there was even a shade of tenderness in her manner , as she noticed the white ; tear-swollen face , and the quiver in the voice which Margaret tried to make so steady . 
Mrs. Shaw looked extremely perplexed by what Margaret had said . 
`` And , '' said Margaret , blushing excessively as she spoke , `` will you do me justice , and believe that though I can not -- I do not choose -- to give explanations of my conduct , I have not acted in the unbecoming way you apprehended ? '' 
Margaret 's voice was so soft , and her eyes so pleading , that Mrs. Thornton was for once affected by the charm of manner to which she had hitherto proved herself invulnerable . 
`` With my aunt , '' replied Margaret , turning towards Mrs. Shaw . 
She is almost like a daughter to me , '' said Mrs. Shaw , looking fondly at Margaret ; `` and I am glad to acknowledge my own obligation for any kindness that has been shown to her . 
Mrs. Thornton thought in her own mind , that Margaret had not taken much care to enlighten her aunt as to the relationship between the Mr. and Mrs. Thornton , towards whom the fine-lady aunt was extending her soft patronage ; so she answered shortly , `` My husband is dead . 
`` Yes , '' said Margaret . 
As it drove up , he and Margaret stood close together on the door-step , and it was impossible but that the recollection of the day of the riot should force itself into both their minds . 
Into his it came associated with the speeches of the following day ; her passionate declaration that there was not a man in all that violent and desperate crowd , for whom she did not care as much as for him . 
And at the remembrance of her taunting words , his brow grew stern , though his heart beat thick with longing love . 
Margaret 's strength was so utterly exhausted by these visits , that she had to submit to much watching , and petting , and sighing `` I-told-you-so 's , '' from her aunt . 
But when her aunt reluctantly proposed a few days delay to Margaret , the latter writhed her body as if in acute suffering , and said : `` Oh ! 
So the arrangements went on ; and Captain Lennox came , and with him news of Edith and the little boy ; and Margaret found that the indifferent , careless conversation of one who , however kind , was not too warm and anxious a sympathiser , did her good . 
She roused up ; and by the time that she knew she might expect Higgins , she was able to leave the room quietly , and await in her own chamber the expected summons . 
said he , as she came in , `` to think of th ' oud gentleman dropping off as he did ! 
`` Not a grand lady , '' said Margaret , half smiling . 
`` You 're quite right , '' said Margaret . 
`` For the children -- for Boucher 's children , '' said Margaret , hurriedly . 
I would not give you a penny , '' she said , smiling ; `` do n't think there 's any of it for you . '' 
It was very well for Margaret that the extreme quiet of the Harley Street house , during Edith 's recovery from her confinement , gave her the natural rest which she needed . 
Mrs. Shaw and Edith could hardly make enough of Margaret , on her return to what they persisted in calling her home . 
Edith was impatient to get well , in order to fill Margaret 's bed-room with all the soft comforts , and pretty nick-knacks , with which her own abounded . 
Mrs. Shaw and her maid found plenty of occupation in restoring Margaret 's wardrobe to a state of elegant variety . 
Just before Margaret had recovered from her necessity for quiet and repose -- before she had begun to feel her life wanting and dull -- Edith came down-stairs and resumed her usual part in the household ; and Margaret fell into the old habit of watching , and admiring , and ministering to her cousin . 
She gladly took all charge of the semblances of duties off Edith 's hands ; answered notes , reminded her of engagements , tended her when no gaiety was in prospect , and she was consequently rather inclined to fancy herself ill . 
But all the rest of the family were in the full business of the London season , and Margaret was often left alone . 
Then her thoughts went back to Milton , with a strange sense of the contrast between the life there , and here . 
She was getting surfeited of the eventless ease in which no struggle or endeavour was required . 
She was afraid lest she should even become sleepily deadened into forgetfulness of anything beyond the life which was lapping her round with luxury . 
There might be toilers and moilers there in London , but she never saw them ; the very servants lived in an underground world of their own , of which she knew neither the hopes nor the fears ; they only seemed to start into existence when some want or whim of their master and mistress needed them . 
There was a strange unsatisfied vacuum in Margaret 's heart and mode of life ; and , once when she had dimly hinted this to Edith , the latter , wearied with dancing the night before , languidly stroked Margaret 's cheek as she sat by her in the old attitude , -- she on a footstool by the sofa where Edith lay . 
Margaret did not feel as if the dinner-parties would be a panacea . 
Captain Lennox was always extremely kind and brotherly to Margaret . 
She was really very fond of him , excepting when he was anxiously attentive to Edith 's dress and appearance , with a view to her beauty making a sufficient impression on the world . 
Then all the latent Vashti in Margaret was roused , and she could hardly keep herself from expressing her feelings . 
The course of Margaret 's day was this ; a quiet hour or two before a late breakfast ; an unpunctual meal , lazily eaten by weary and half-awake people , but yet at which , in all its dragged-out length , she was expected to be present , because , directly afterwards , came a discussion of plans , at which , although they none of them concerned her , she was expected to give her sympathy , if she could not assist with her advice : an endless number of notes to write , which Edith invariably left to her , with many caressing compliments as to her eloquence du billet ; a little play with Sholto as he returned from his morning 's walk ; besides the care of the children during the servants ' dinner ; a drive or callers ; and some dinner or morning engagement for her aunt and cousins , which left Margaret free , it is true , but rather wearied with the inactivity of the day , coming upon depressed spirits and delicate health . 
She looked forward with longing , though unspoken interest to the homely object of Dixon 's return from Milton ; where , until now , the old servant had been busily engaged in winding up all the affairs of the Hale family . 
It had appeared a sudden famine to her heart , this entire cessation of any news respecting the people amongst whom she had lived so long . 
But it was only here and there that the name came in , or any Milton name , indeed ; and Margaret was sitting one evening , all alone in the Lennox 's drawing-room , not reading Dixon 's letters , which yet she held in her hand , but thinking over them , and recalling the days which had been , and picturing the busy life out of which her own had been taken and never missed ; wondering if all went on in that whirl just as if she and her father had never been ; questioning within herself , if no one in all the crowd missed her , -LRB- not Higgins , she was not thinking of him , -RRB- when , suddenly , Mr. Bell was announced ; and Margaret hurried the letters into her work-basket , and started up , blushing as if she had been doing some guilty thing . 
You shall make me some tea , Margaret . 
`` Only Dixon 's , '' replied Margaret , growing very red . 
`` I do n't know , '' said Margaret , resolved against making a guess . 
asked Margaret . 
What sort of a person is he , Margaret ? '' 
`` I liked him long ago , '' said Margaret , glancing down for a moment . 
And then she looked straight up and went on in her natural manner . 
Do you call him good-looking , Margaret ? '' 
Why do n't you ask after Mr. Thornton , Margaret ? 
asked Margaret hurriedly and below her breath , though she tried to speak out . 
`` She would put on any assumption of feeling to veil her daughter 's weakness , '' said Margaret in a low voice . 
She does n't seem over fond of you , Margaret . '' 
`` I know it , '' said Margaret . 
exclaimed she , as if relieved . 
Margaret suspected him of being as thankful as she was at the presence of a third party , on this their first meeting since the memorable day of his offer , and her refusal at Helstone . 
She could hardly tell what to say at first , and was thankful for all the tea-table occupations , which gave her an excuse for keeping silence , and him an opportunity of recovering himself . 
Margaret , as if she read his thought , addressed herself to Mr. Bell , both including him in the conversation , and implying that he was perfectly aware of the endeavours that had been made to clear Frederick . 
Of course , it was a great secret , and perhaps I should not have named it now , '' said Margaret , a little dismayed . 
`` Never mind , Margaret . 
`` He was with mamma when she died , '' said Margaret , softly . 
But he did not say the name ; and although Margaret would have given much to know if her suspicions were right , and it had been Mr. Thornton who had made the enquiry , she could not ask the question of Mr. Bell , much as she longed to do so . 
Then Mr. Lennox said , addressing himself to Margaret ; `` I suppose as Mr. Bell is now acquainted with all the circumstances attending your brother 's unfortunate dilemma ; I can not do better than inform him exactly how the research into the evidence we once hoped to produce in his favour stands at present . 
But I will certainly come if you wish it , '' replied Mr. Lennox , with a little after-thought of extreme willingness , which made Margaret shrink into herself , and almost wish that she had not proposed her natural request . 
Margaret was seized with a shy awkward dread of being left alone with him . 
The scene on the little terrace in the Helstone garden was so present to her , that she could hardly help believing it was so with him . 
`` Do n't go yet , please , Mr. Bell , '' said she , hastily . 
said she , laying a light but determined hand on his arm . 
He looked at her , and saw the confusion stirring in her countenance ; he sate down again , as if her little touch had been possessed of resistless strength . 
I suppose I am not much to ` see , ' eh , Margaret ? '' 
He joked , to give her time to recover from the slight flutter which he had detected in her manner on his proposal to leave ; and she caught the tone , and threw the ball back . 
Mr. Lennox wondred how his brother , the Captain , could have reported her as having lost all her good looks . 
To be sure , in her quiet black dress , she was a contrast to Edith , dancing in her white crape mourning , and long floating golden hair , all softness and glitter . 
Mrs. Shaw and Captain Lennox , each in their separate way , gave Mr. Bell a kind and sincere welcome , winning him over to like them almost in spite of himself , especially when he saw how naturally Margaret took her place as sister and daughter of the house . 
for Margaret 's Mr. Bell -- '' `` There is no knowing what sacrifices you would not have made , '' said her brother-in-law . 
Here he suddenly remembered Margaret 's little look of entraty as she urged him to stay longer , and he also recollected a few hints given him long ago by an acquaintance of Mr. Lennox 's , as to his admiration of Margaret . 
He could not attend to all the lawyer 's details , which , as he saw , made Margaret 's eyes dilate , and her lips grow pale , as one by one fate decreed , or so it seemed , every morsel of evidence which would exonerate Frederick , should fall from beneath her feet and disappear . 
It was not that Margaret had not been perfectly aware of the result before . 
It was only that the details of each successive disappointment came with such relentless minuteness to quench all hope , that she at last fairly gave way to tears . 
Lieutenant Hale , '' and even this giving him the title of the service from which he had so harshly been expelled , was soothing to Margaret . 
`` That is it , '' said Margaret . 
Mr. Bell blew his nose , but , otherwise , he also kept silence ; and Margaret , in a minute or two , had apparently recovered her usual composure . 
She thanked Mr. Lennox very courteously for his trouble ; all the more courteously and graciously because she was conscious that , by her behaviour , he might have probably been led to imagine that he had given her needless pain . 
Yet it was pain she would not have been without . 
Mr. Bell came up to wish her good-bye . 
`` Margaret ! '' 
`` Oh , Mr. Bell , '' said she -- and could say no more . 
But she took his old gouty hand , and kissed it . 
Can you stand it , Margaret ? 
`` It 's no use my trying to say how much I shall like it , '' said Margaret , through her tears . 
`` I wo n't cry a drop , '' said Margaret , winking her eyes to shake the tears off her eye-lashes , and forcing a smile . 
Margaret was in a state of almost trembling eagerness , while Mr. Bell discussed his plan with her aunt Shaw , who was first startled , then doubtful and perplexed , and in the end , yielding rather to the rough force of Mr. Bell 's words than to her own conviction ; for to the last , whether it was right or wrong , proper or improper , she could not settle to her own satisfaction , till Margaret 's safe return , the happy fulfilment of the project , gave her decision enough to say , `` she was sure it had been a very kind thought of Mr. Bell 's , and just what she herself had been wishing for Margaret , as giving her the very change which she required , after all-the anxious time she had had . '' 
Margaret was ready long before the appointed time , and had leisure enough to cry a little , quietly , when unobserved , and to smile brightly when any one looked at her . 
Her last alarm was lest they should be too late and miss the train ; but no ! 
they were all in time ; and she breathed freely and happily at length , seated in the carriage opposite to Mr. Bell , and whirling away past the well-known stations ; seeing the old south country-towns and hamlets sleeping in the warm light of the pure sun , which gave a yet ruddier colour to their tiled roofs , so different to the cold slates of the north . 
There were few people about at the stations , it almost seemed as if they were too lazily content to wish to travel ; none of the bustle and stir that Margaret had noticed in her two journeys on the London and North-Western line . 
The hot air danced over the golden stillness of the land , farm after farm was left behind , each reminding Margaret of German Idyls -- of Herman and Dorothea -- of Evangeline . 
exclaimed she , as at the end of her apology , a glint of sunlight showed her Margaret 's face , hitherto unobserved in that shady parlour . 
And then she went up to Margaret , and shook her hands with motherly fondness . 
Margaret tried to speak and tell her of her father 's death ; of her mother 's it was evident that Mrs. Purkis was aware , from her omission of her name . 
`` There was a gentleman here in the spring -- it might have been as long ago as last winter -- who told us a deal of Mr. Hale and Miss Margaret ; and he said Mrs. Hale was gone , poor lady . 
Come Margaret , my dear ! 
Her father was my oldest friend , and she 's my god-daughter , so I thought we would just come down together and see the old place ; and I know of old you can give us comfortable rooms and a capital dinner . 
Let me show you to a room , Miss Margaret , where you can take off your bonnet , and wash your face . 
The little casement window in Margaret 's bed-chamber was almost filled up with rose and vine branches ; but pushing them aside , and stretching a little out , she could see the tops of the parsonage chimneys above the trees ; and distinguish many a well-known line through the leaves . 
Mr. Bell had strawberries and cream , a loaf of brown bread , and a jug of milk , -LRB- together with a Stilton cheese and a bottle of port for his own private refreshment , -RRB- ready for Margaret on her coming down stairs ; and after this rustic luncheon they set out to walk , hardly knowing in what direction to turn , so many old familiar inducements were there in each . 
We will go this way , and make a round so as to come back by it , '' replied Margaret . 
Margaret missed them each and all , and grieved over them like old friends . 
They came past the spot where she and Mr. Lennox had sketched . 
`` I did not think I had been so old , '' said Margaret after a pause of silence ; and she turned away sighing . 
`` Let us go on to see little Susan , '' said Margaret , drawing her companion up a grassy road-way , leading under the shadow of a forest glade . 
Margaret felt all Mr. Bell 's kindness in trying to make cheerful talk about nothing to endeavour to prevent her from thinking too curiously about the past . 
But she would rather have gone over these dear-loved walks in silence , if indeed she were not ungrateful enough to wish that she might have been alone . 
Margaret was disappointed , and the poor woman saw it , and began to make a kind of apology . 
it is quite right , '' said Margaret . 
Margaret did not want to encourage him to go on by replying to him , and so prolonging the discussion before the mother . 
asked Margaret , who had formerly been the peace-maker of the village . 
exclaimed both Margaret and Mr. Bell . 
By dint of questioning , Margaret extracted from her the horrible fact that Betty Barnes , having been induced by a gypsy fortune-teller to lend the latter her husband 's Sunday clothes , on promise of having them faithfully returned on the Saturday night before Goodman Barnes should have missed them , became alarmed by their non-appearance , and her consequent dread of her husband 's anger , and as , according to one of the savage country superstitions , the cries of a cat , in the agonies of being boiled or roasted alive , compelled -LRB- as it were -RRB- the powers of darkness to fulfil the wishes of the executioner , resort had been had to the charm . 
Margaret listened in horror ; and endeavoured in vain to enlighten the woman 's mind ; but she was obliged to give it up in despair . 
Step by step she got the woman to admit certain facts , of which the logical connexion and sequence was perfectly clear to Margaret ; but at the end , the bewildered woman simply repeated her first assertion , namely , that `` it were very cruel for sure , and she should not like to do it ; but that there were nothing like it for giving a person what they wished for ; she had heard it all her life ; but it were very cruel for all that . '' 
Margaret gave it up in despair , and walked away sick at heart . 
They did not speak much more , but thridded their way through many a bosky dell , whose soft green influence could not charm away the shock and the pain in Margaret 's heart , caused by the recital of such cruelty ; a recital too , the manner of which betrayed such utter want of imagination , and therefore of any sympathy with the suffering animal . 
A brisk lady in black , here , there , and everywhere , perceived them , and bade them welcome with somewhat of the hostess-air which , Margaret remembered , her mother was wont to assume , only in a more soft and languid manner , when any rare visitors strayed in to inspect the school . 
She knew at once it was the present Vicar 's wife , her mother 's successor ; and she would have drawn back from the interview had it been possible ; but in an instant she had conquered this feeling , and modestly advanced , meeting many a bright glance of recognition , and hearing many a half-suppressed murmur of `` It 's Miss Hale . '' 
Margaret wished she could have helped feeling that it also became more patronising . 
Margaret explained that it was not her father , and stammered out the fact of his death ; wondering all the time how Mr. Hale could have borne coming to revisit Helstone , if it had been as the Vicar 's lady supposed . 
Poor Margaret , whose visit was sentimental , not in any degree inspective , felt herself taken in ; but as in some way bringing her in contact with little eager faces , once well-known , and who had received the solemn rite of baptism from her father , she sate down , half losing herself in tracing out the changing features of the girls , and holding Susan 's hand for a minute or two , unobserved by all , while the first class sought for their books , and the Vicar 's lady went as near as a lady could towards holding Mr. Bell by the button , while she explained the Phonetic system to him , and gave him a conversation she had had with the Inspector about it . 
Margaret bent over her book , and seeing nothing but that -- hearing the buzz of children 's voices , old times rose up , and she thought of them , and her eyes filled with tears , till all at once there was a pause -- one of the girls was stumbling over the apparently simple word `` a , '' uncertain what to call it . 
`` A , an indefinite article , '' said Margaret , mildly . 
And Margaret sate abashed . 
The children knew more than she did . 
Margaret spoke no more during the lesson . 
But after it was over , she went quietly round to one or two old favourites , and talked to them a little . 
They were growing out of children into great girls ; passing out of her recollection in their rapid development , as she , by her three years ' absence , was vanishing from theirs . 
Still she was glad to have seen them all again , though a tinge of sadness mixed itself with her pleasure . 
When school was over for the day , it was yet early in the summer afternoon ; and Mrs. Hepworth proposed to Margaret that she and Mr. Bell should accompany her to the parsonage , and see the -- the word `` improvements '' had half slipped out of her mouth , but she substituted the more cautious term `` alterations '' which the present Vicar was making . 
Margaret did not care a straw about seeing the alterations , which jarred upon her fond recollection of what her home had been ; but she longed to see the old place once more , even though she shivered away from the pain which she knew she should feel . 
The parsonage was so altered , both inside and out , that the real pain was less than she had anticipated . 
`` We were but two , '' said Margaret . 
Margaret feared that Mrs. Hepworth would find out that Mr. Bell was playing upon her , in the admiration he thought fit to express for everything that especially grated on his taste . 
she took it all literally , and with such good faith , that Margaret could not help remonstrating with him as they walked slowly away from the parsonage back to their inn . 
`` Do n't scold , Margaret . 
If she had not shown you every change with such evident exultation in their superior sense , in perceiving what an improvement this and that would be , I could have behaved well . 
They were both of them tired , and Margaret herself so much so , that she was unwilling to go out as she had proposed to do , and have another ramble among the woods and fields so close to the home of her childhood . 
And , somehow , this visit to Helstone had not been all -- had not been exactly what she had expected . 
A great improvement it was called ; but Margaret sighed over the old picturesqueness , the old gloom , and the grassy wayside of former days . 
She sate by the window on the little settle , sadly gazing out upon the gathering shades of night , which harmonised well with her pensive thought . 
At last he was roused by the entrance of the tea-tray , brought in by a flushed-looking country-girl , who had evidently been finding some variety from her usual occupation of waiter , in assisting this day in the hayfield . 
Who 's that , -- Margaret ? 
asked Mr. Bell , coming to the window , and standing behind Margaret . 
`` Nothing , '' said she , rising up quickly , and speaking as cheerfully as she could at a moment 's notice . 
Margaret was silent for some time . 
She played with her teaspoon , and did not attend particularly to what Mr. Bell said . 
He contradicted her , and she took the same sort of smiling notice of his opinion as if he had agreed with her . 
Then she sighed , and putting down her spoon , she began , apropos of nothing at all , and in the high-pitched voice which usually shows that the speaker has been thinking for some time on the subject that they wish to introduce -- `` Mr. Bell , you remember what we were saying about Frederick last night , do n't you ? '' 
asked Margaret , her voice now lower than usual . 
But what about it , Margaret ? '' 
`` I want to tell you of something I did that was very wrong , about that time , '' said Margaret , suddenly looking up at him with her clear honest eyes . 
`` I told a lie ; '' and her face became scarlet . 
You know who is the father of lies , Margaret ? 
Margaret wiped her eyes , and tried to talk about something else , but suddenly she burst out afresh . 
`` Please , Mr. Bell , let me tell you about it -- you could perhaps help me a little ; no , not help me , but if you knew the truth , perhaps you could put me to rights -- that is not it , after all , '' said she , in despair at not being able to express herself more exactly as she wished . 
I saw him look at me , but I did not know who it was at first , the sun was so in my eyes , but in an instant the dazzle went off , and I saw it was Mr. Thornton , and we bowed , '' -- `` And he saw Frederick of course , '' said Mr. Bell , helping her on with her story , as he thought . 
now comes the bad part , '' said she , nervously twining her fingers together . 
She suddenly covered her face with her hands , as if wishing to hide herself from the presence of the recollection . 
`` The instinctive want of faith , and clutching at a sin to keep myself from sinking , '' said she bitterly , `` No ! 
Margaret did not speak ; did not attend to what Mr. Bell went on to say ; lost all sense of it . 
By-and-by she said : `` Will you tell me what you refer to about reservations in his manner of speaking of me ? '' 
said Margaret , surprised . 
I never thought of anything of that kind , '' said Margaret , reddening , and looking hurt and offended . 
Margaret was the first to speak . 
`` I am not likely ever to see Mr. Thornton again , '' -- and there she stopped . 
Her eyes were full of tears , but her voice was steady , and Mr. Bell was not looking at her . 
`` As for that , '' said Margaret , rather haughtily , `` I hold it is ` Honi soit qui mal y pense . ' 
But it was no smiling matter to Margaret . 
She hardly attended to what Mr. Bell was saying . 
Her thoughts ran upon the idea , before entertained , but which now had assumed the strength of a conviction , that Mr. Thornton no longer held his former good opinion of her -- that he was disappointed in her . 
She did not feel as if any explanation could ever reinstate her -- not in his love , for that and any return on her part she had resolved never to dwell upon , and she kept rigidly to her resolution -- but in the respect and high regard which she had hoped would have ever made him willing , in the spirit of Gerald Griffin 's beautiful lines , `` To turn and look back when thou hearest The sound of my name . '' 
She kept choking and swallowing all the time that she thought about it . 
She tried to comfort herself with the idea , that what he imagined her to be , did not alter the fact of what she was . 
But it was a truism , a phantom , and broke down under the weight of her regret . 
She had twenty questions on the tip of her tongue to ask Mr. Bell , but not one of them did she utter . 
Mr. Bell thought that she was tired , and sent her early to her room , where she sate long hours by the open window , gazing out on the purple dome above , where the stars arose , and twinkled and disappeared behind the great umbrageous trees before she went to bed . 
All night long too , there burnt a little light on earth ; a candle in her old bedroom , which was the nursery with the present inhabitants of the parsonage , until the new one was built . 
A sense of change , of individual nothingness , of perplexity and disappointment , overpowered Margaret . 
Nothing had been the same ; and this slight , all-pervading instability , had given her greater pain than if all had been too entirely changed for her to recognise it . 
Wearily she went to bed , wearily she arose in four or five hours ' time . 
`` After all it is right , '' said she , hearing the voices of children at play while she was dressing . 
And with a smile ready in her eyes to quiver down to her lips , she went into the parlour and greeted Mr. Bell . 
`` But Edith expects me back -- I can not go , '' said Margaret , thankful to have so good an excuse . 
said Margaret . 
Before they left Margaret stole round to the back of the Vicarage garden , and gathered a little straggling piece of honeysuckle . 
She would not take a flower the day before , for fear of being observed , and her motives and feelings commented upon . 
But as she returned across the common , the place was reinvested with the old enchanting atmosphere . 
As Margaret remembered her feelings yesterday , she said to herself : `` And I too change perpetually -- now this , now that -- now disappointed and peevish because all is not exactly as I had pictured it , and now suddenly discovering that the reality is far more beautiful than I had imagined it . 
A few days afterwards , she had found her level , and decided that she was very glad to have been there , and that she had seen it again , and that to her it would always be the prettiest spot in the world , but that it was so full of associations with former days , and especially with her father and mother , that if it were all to come over again , she should shrink back from such another visit as that which she had paid with Mr. Bell . 
About this time Dixon returned from Milton , and assumed her post as Margaret 's maid . 
He had been several times at the house asking for news of Miss Margaret -- the only person who ever did ask , except once Mr. Thornton . 
Margaret rather agreed with her that the story was incoherent enough to be like a dream . 
Still it was pleasant to have some one now with whom she could talk of Milton , and Milton people . 
She liked much more to dwell upon speeches of Mr. Bell 's , which had suggested an idea to her of what was really his intention -- making Margaret his heiress . 
But her young lady gave her no encouragement , nor in any way gratified her insinuating enquiries , however disguised in the form of suspicions or assertions . 
All this time , Margaret had a strange undefined longing to hear that Mr. Bell had gone to pay one of his business visits to Milton ; for it had been well understood between them , at the time of their conversation at Helstone , that the explanation she had desired should only be given to Mr. Thornton by word of mouth , and even in that manner should be in nowise forced upon him . 
Mr. Bell was no great correspondent , but he wrote from time to time long or short letters , as the humour took him , and although Margaret was not conscious of any definite hope , on receiving them , yet she always put away his notes with a little feeling of disappointment . 
she must be patient . 
Margaret fancied that he could not be well ; but in answer to some enquiry of hers as to his health , he sent her a short note , saying there was an oldfashioned complaint called the spleen ; that he was suffering from that , and it was for her to decide if it was more mental or physical ; but that he should like to indulge himself in grumbling , without being obliged to send a bulletin every time . 
In consequence of this note , Margaret made no more enquiries about his health . 
One day Edith let out accidentally a fragment of a conversation which she had had with Mr. Bell , when he was last in London , which possessed Margaret with the idea that he had some notion of taking her to pay a visit to her brother and new sister-in-law , at Cadiz , in the autumn . 
She questioned and cross-questioned Edith , till the latter was weary , and declared that there was nothing more to remember ; all he had said was that he half-thought he should go , and hear for himself what Frederick had to say about the mutiny ; and that it would be a good opportunity for Margaret to become acquainted with her new sister-in-law ; that he always went somewhere during the long vacation , and did not see why he should not go to Spain as well as anywhere else . 
Edith hoped Margaret did not want to leave them , that she was so anxious about all this . 
And then , having nothing else particular to do , she cried , and said that she knew she cared much more for Margaret than Margaret did for her . 
Margaret comforted her as well as she could , but she could hardly explain to her how this idea of Spain , mere Chateau en Espagne as it might be , charmed and delighted her . 
So Margaret had to keep her pleasure to herself , and could only let it escape by the safety valve of asking Dixon , when she dressed for dinner , if she would not like to see Master Frederick and his new wife very much indeed ? 
said Margaret , a little damped for an instant at this recollection . 
`` Oh , '' said Margaret , `` I do not know that I am going ; and if I go , I am not such a fine lady as to be unable to travel without you . 
In the first place , she did not like Margaret 's trick of calling her ` dear old Dixon ' whenever she was particularly demonstrative . 
`` I fancy it was love that first predisposed him to conversion , '' said Margaret , sighing . 
Margaret was afraid of letting her mind run too much upon this Spanish plan . 
But it took off her thoughts from too impatiently dwelling upon her desire to have all explained to Mr. Thornton . 
Mr. Bell appeared for the present to be stationary at Oxford , and to have no immediate purpose of going to Milton , and some secret restraint seemed to hang over Margaret , and prevent her from even asking , or alluding again to any probability of such a visit on his part . 
Nor did she feel at liberty to name what Edith had told her of the idea he had entertained , -- it might be but for five minutes , -- of going to Spain . 
One of the great pleasures of Margaret 's life at this time , was in Edith 's boy . 
Do , Margaret , please ring the bell for Hanley . '' 
But Margaret almost liked him better in these manifestations of character than in his good bluesashed moods . 
She would carry him off into a room , where they two alone battled it out ; she with a firm power which subdued him into peace , while every sudden charm and wile she possessed , was exerted on the side of right , until he would rub his little hot and tear-smeared face all over hers , kissing and caressing till he often fell asleep in her arms or on her shoulder . 
Those were Margaret 's sweetest moments . 
They gave her a taste of the feeling that she believed would be denied to her for ever . 
Margaret thought him colder , if more brilliant than formerly ; but there were strong intellectual tastes , and much and varied knowledge , which gave flavour to the otherwise rather insipid conversation . 
Margaret saw glimpses in him of a slight contempt for his brother and sister-in-law , and for their mode of life , which he seemed to consider as frivolous and purposeless . 
He once or twice spoke to his brother , in Margaret 's presence , in a pretty sharp tone of enquiry , as to whether he meant entirely to relinquish his profession ; and on Captain Lennox 's reply , that he had quite enough to live upon , she had seen Mr. Lennox 's curl of the lip as he said , `` And is that all you live for ? '' 
These dinners were delightful ; but even here Margaret 's dissatisfaction found her out . 
One day , after the gentlemen had come up into the drawing-room , Mr. Lennox drew near to Margaret , and addressed her in almost the first voluntary words he had spoken to her since she had returned to live in Harley Street . 
My face must be very expressive , '' replied Margaret . 
`` I did not like , '' said Margaret , hastily , `` his way of advocating what he knew to be wrong -- so glaringly wrong -- even in jest . '' 
that is the exact tone in you , that -- '' she stopped short . 
He listened for a moment to see if she would finish her sentence ; but she only reddened , and turned away ; before she did so , however , she heard him say , in a very low , clear voice , -- `` If my tones , or modes of thought , are what you dislike , will you do me the justice to tell me so , and so give me the chance of learning to please you ? '' 
He had spoken of it at Helstone as of a journey which he might have to take in a very short time from then ; but he must have transacted his business by writing , Margaret thought , ere now , and she knew that if he could , he would avoid going to a place which he disliked , and moreover would little understand the secret importance which she affixed to the explanation that could only be given by word of mouth . 
She knew that he would feel that it was necessary that it should be done ; but whether in summer , autumn , or winter , it would signify very little . 
It was now August , and there had been no mention of the Spanish journey to which he had alluded to Edith , and Margaret tried to reconcile herself to the fading away of this illusion . 
But one morning she received a letter , saying that next week he meant to come up to town ; he wanted to see her about a plan which he had in his head ; and , moreover , he intended to treat himself to a little doctoring , as he had begun to come round to her opinion , that it would be pleasanter to think that his health was more in fault than he , when he found himself irritable and cross . 
There was altogether a tone of forced cheerfulness in the letter , as Margaret noticed afterwards ; but at the time her attention was taken up by Edith 's exclamations . 
`` But that 's superstitious , I 'm sure , Margaret . '' 
''' `` My dear Margaret ! 
Margaret drew herself up haughtily . 
Edith began to sob so bitterly , and to declare so vehemently that Margaret had lost all love for her , and no longer looked upon her as a friend , that Margaret came to think that she had expressed too harsh an opinion for the relief of her own wounded pride , and ended by being Edith 's slave for the rest of the day ; while that little lady , overcome by wounded feeling , lay like a victim on the sofa , heaving occasionally a profound sigh , till at last she fell asleep . 
Margaret received this letter at breakfast-time , and turned very pale as she read it ; then silently putting it into Edith 's hands , she left the room . 
It was some time before she could think of Margaret . 
Then she started up , and followed her upstairs into her room . 
Dixon was packing up a few toilette artieles , and Margaret was hastily putting on her bonnet , shedding tears all the time , and her hands trembling so that she could hardly tie the strings . 
`` Oh , dear Margaret ! 
Come and ask her about it , Margaret . 
Come to mama , and do ask her before you go . 
Margaret yielded , and lost her train . 
But there was another train in a couple of hours ; and after various discussions on propriety and impropriety , it was decided that Captain Lennox should accompany Margaret , as the one thing to which she was constant was her resolution to go , alone or otherwise , by the next train , whatever might be said of the propriety or impropriety of the step . 
Her father 's friend , her own friend , was lying at the point of death , and the thought of this came upon her with such vividness , that she was surprised herself at the firmness with which she asserted something of her right to independence of action ; and five minutes before the time for starting , she found herself sitting in a railway-carriage opposite to Captain Lennox . 
It was always a comfort to her to think that she had gone , though it was only to hear that he had died in the night . 
She saw the rooms that he had occupoed , and associated them ever after most fondly in her memory with the idea of her father , and his one cherished and faithful friend . 
Captain Lennox fell asleep on their journey home ; and Margaret could cry at leisure , and bethink her of this fatal year , and all the woes it had brought to her . 
No sooner was she fully aware of one loss than another came -- not to supersede her grief for the one before , but to re-open wounds and feelings scarcely healed . 
But at the sound of the tender voices of her aunt and Edith , of merry little Sholto 's glee at her arrival , and at the sight of the well-lighted rooms , with their mistress pretty in her paleness and her eager sorrowful interest , Margaret roused herself from her heavy trance of almost superstitious hopelessness , and began to feel that even around her joy and gladness might gather . 
She had Edith 's place on the sofa ; Sholto was taught to carry aunt Margaret 's cup of tea very carefully to her ; and by the time she went up to dress , she could thank God for having spared her dear old friend a long or a painful illness . 
But when night came -- solemn night , and all the house was quiet , Margaret still sate watching the beauty of a London sky at such an hour , on such a summer evening ; the faint pink reflection of earthly lights on the soft clouds that float tranquilly into the white moonlight , out of the warm gloom which lies motionless around the horizon . 
Margaret 's room had been the day nursery of her childhood , just when it merged into girlhood , and when the feelings and conscience had been first awakened into full activity . 
On some such night as this she remembered promising to herself to live as brave and noble a life as any heroine she ever read or heard of in romance , a life sans peur et sans reproche ; it had seemed to her then that she had only to will , and such a life would be accomplished . 
`` Is not Margaret the heiress ? '' 
Margaret has had a lawyer 's letter , and she is residuary legatee -- the legacies being about two thousand pounds , and the remainder about forty thousand , at the present value of property in Milton . '' 
and how does she take her good fortune ? '' 
`` Oh , it seems she knew she was to have it all along ; only she had no idea it was so much . 
She looks very white and pale , and says she 's afraid of it ; but that 's nonsense , you know , and will soon go off . 
I left mamma pouring congratulations down her throat , and stole away to tell you . '' 
that the most natural thing was to consider Mr. Lennox henceforward as Margaret 's legal adviser . 
She was so entirely ignorant of all forms of business that in nearly everything she had to refer to him . 
He chose out her attorney ; he came to her with papers to be signed . 
He was never so happy as when teaching her of what all these mysteries of the law were the signs and types . 
`` Henry , '' said Edith , one day , archly ; `` do you know what I hope and expect all these long conversations with Margaret will end in ? '' 
There was no Spain for Margaret that autumn ; although to the last she hoped that some fortunate occasion would call Frederick to Paris , whither she could easily have met with a convoy . 
Instead of Cadiz , she had to content herself with Cromer . 
To that place her aunt Shaw and the Lennoxes were bound . 
They had all along wished her to accompany them , and , consequently , with their characters , they made but lazy efforts to forward her own separate wish . 
Perhaps Cromer was , in one sense of the expression , the best for her . 
She needed bodily strengthening and bracing as well as rest . 
Among other hopes that had vanished , was the hope , the trust she had had , that Mr. Bell would have given Mr. Thornton the simple facts of the family circumstances which had preceded the unfortunate accident that led to Leonard 's death . 
Whatever opinion -- however changed it might be from what Mr. Thornton had once entertained , she had wished it to be based upon a true understanding of what she had done ; and why she had done it . 
It would have been a pleasure to her ; would have given her rest on a point on which she should now all her life be restless , unless she could resolve not to think upon it . 
It was now so long after the time of these occurrences , that there was no possible way of explaining them save the one which she had lost by Mr. Bell 's death . 
She must just submit , like many another , to be misunderstood ; but , though reasoning herself into the belief that in this hers was no uncommon lot , her heart did not ache the less with longing that some time -- years and years hence -- before he died at any rate , he might know how much she had been tempted . 
She thought that she did not want to hear that all was explained to him , if only she could be sure that he would know . 
But this wish was vain , like so many others ; and when she had schooled herself into this conviction , she turned with all her heart and strength to the life that lay immediately before her , and resolved to strive and make the best of that . 
She used to sit long hours upon the beach , gazing intently on the waves as they chafed with perpetual motion against the pebbly shore , -- or she looked out upon the more distant heave , and sparkle against the sky , and heard , without being conscious of hearing , the eternal psalm , which went up continually . 
She was soothed without knowing how or why . 
Listlessly she sat there , on the ground , her hands clasped round her knees , while her aunt Shaw did small shoppings , and Edith and Captain Lennox rode far and wide on shore and inland . 
And when the family gathered at dinner-time , Margaret was so silent and absorbed that Edith voted her moped , and hailed a proposal of her husband 's with great satisfaction , that Mr. Henry Lennox should be asked to take Cromer for a week , on his return from Scotland in October . 
But all this time for thought enabled Margaret to put events in their right places , as to origin and signficance , both as regarded her past life and her fature . 
Those hours by the sea-side were not lost , as any one might have seen who had had the perception to read , or the care to understand , the look that Margaret 's face was gradually acquiring . 
`` The sea has done Miss Hale an immense deal of good , I should fancy , '' said he , when she first left the room after his arrival in their family circle . 
From this time the clever and ambitious man bent all his powers to gaining Margaret . 
He loved her sweet beauty . 
He saw the latent sweep of her mind , which could easily -LRB- he thought -RRB- be led to embrace all the objects on which he had set his heart . 
He looked upon her fortune only as a part of the complete and superb character of herself and her position : yet he was fully aware of the rise which it would immediately enable him , the poor barrister , to take . 
Eventually he would earn such success , and such honours , as would enable him to pay her back , with interest , that first advance in wealth which he should owe to her . 
He had been to Milton on business connected with her property , on his return from Scotland ; and with the quick eye of a skilled lawyer , ready ever to take in and weigh contingencies , he had seen that much additional value was yearly accruing to the lands and tenements which she owned in that prosperous and increasing town . 
He was glad to find that the present relationship between Margaret and himself , of client and legal adviser , was gradually superseding the recollection of that unlucky , mismanaged day at Helstone . 
He had thus unusual opportunities of intimate intercourse with her , besides those that arose from the connection between the families . 
Margaret was only too willing to listen as long as he talked of Milton , though he had seen none of the people whom she more especially knew . 
It had been the tone with her aunt and cousin to speak of Milton with dislike and contempt ; just such feelings as Margaret was ashamed to remember she had expressed and felt on first going to live there . 
But Mr. Lennox almost exceeded Margaret in his appreciation of the character of Milton and its inhabitants . 
He was never tired of talking about them ; and had never perceived how selfish and material were too many of the ends they proposed to themselves as the result of all their mighty , untiring endeavour , till Margaret , even in the midst of her gratification , had the candour to point this out , as the tainting sin in so much that was noble , and to be admired . 
Still , when other subjects palled upon her , and she gave but short answers to many questions , Henry Lennox found out that an enquiry as to some Darkshire peculiarity of character , called back the light into her eye , the glow into her cheek . 
When they returned to town , Margaret fulfilled one of her sea-side resolves , and took her life into her own hands . 
Before they went to Cromer , she had been as docile to her aunt 's laws as if she were still the scared little stranger who cried herself to sleep that first night in the Harley Street nursery . 
But she had learnt , in those solemn hours of thought , that she herself must one day answer for her own life , and what she had done with it ; and she tried to settle that most difficult problem for women , how much was to be utterly merged in obedience to authority , and how much might he set apart for freedom in working . 
Mrs. Shaw was as good-tempered as could be ; and Edith had inherited this charming domestic quality ; Margaret herself had probably the worst temper of the three , for her quick perceptions , and over-lively imagination made her hasty , and her early isolation from sympathy had made her proud ; but she had an indescribable child-like sweetness of heart , which made her manners , even in her rarely wilful moods , irresistible of old ; and now , chastened even by what the world called her good fortune , she charmed her reluctant aunt into acquiescence with her will . 
So Margaret gained the acknowledgment of her right to follow her own ideas of duty . 
Edith came into Margaret 's bedroom , the first time in her habit , the second ready dressed for dinner . 
No one was there at first ; the next time Edith found Dixon laying out Margaret 's dress on the bed ; but no Margaret . 
Dixon was still huffed about her despised taste ; so she replied , rather shortly : `` It 's no wonder to my mind , when I hear ladies talk such a deal about being ladies -- and when they 're such fearful , delicate , dainty ladies too -- I say it 's no wonder to me that there are no longer any saints on earth -- '' `` Oh , Margaret ! 
said Margaret , in a low voice . 
They look glorious flames , Margaret , in your black hair . -RRB- 
So I suppose he is able to sound his h 's , which is not a common Darkshire accomplishment -- eh , Margaret ? '' 
asked Margaret , in a constrained voice . 
I wish I was as tall as a queen , and as brown as a gipsy , Margaret . '' 
The privileged brother-in-law came early ; and Margaret , reddening as she spoke , began to ask him the questions she wanted to hear answered about Mr. Thornton . 
He had dropped his voice to speak to Margaret , by whom he was sitting ; but as he ended he sprang up , and introduced Mr. Thornton , who had that moment entered , to Edith and Captain Lennox . 
Margaret looked with an anxious eye at Mr. Thornton while he was thus occupied . 
It was considerably more than a year since she had seen him ; and events had occurred to change him much in that time . 
He was aware , from the first glance he had given round the room , that Margaret was there ; he had seen her intent look of occupation as she listened to Mr. Henry Lennox ; and he came up to her with the perfectly regulated manner of an old friend . 
With his first calm words a vivid colour flashed into her cheeks , which never left them again during the evening . 
She did not seem to have much to say to him . 
She disappointed him by the quiet way in which she asked what seemed to him to be the merely necessary questions respecting her old acquaintances , in Milton ; but others came in -- more intimate in the house than he -- and he fell into the background , where he and Mr. Lennox talked together from time to time . 
Margaret looked beautiful in the pomegranate flowers ; and if she did lean back in her chair and speak but little , Edith was not annoyed , for the conversation flowed on smoothly without her . 
Margaret was watching Mr. Thornton 's face . 
He never looked at her ; so she might study him unobserved , and note the changes which even this short time had wrought in him . 
Only at some unexpected mot of Mr. Lennox 's , his face flashed out into the old look of intense enjoyment ; the merry brightness returned to his eyes , the lips just parted to suggest the brilliant smile of former days ; and for an instant , his glance instinctively sought hers , as if he wanted her sympathy . 
But when their eyes met , his whole countenance changed ; he was grave and anxious once more ; and he resolutely avoided even looking near her again during dinner . 
There were only two ladies besides their own party , and as these were occupied in conversation by her aunt and Edith , when they went up into the drawing-room , Margaret languidly employed herself about some work . 
Mr. Lennox drew near to Margaret , and said in a low voice : `` I really think Edith owes me thanks for my contribution to her party . 
`` With his powers and opportunities you would have succeeded , '' said Margaret . 
He did not quite relish the tone in which she spoke , although the words but expressed a thought which had passed through his own mind . 
Suddenly , as if a new idea had struck him , he crossed over to where Margaret was sitting , and began , without preface , as if he knew she had been listening to all that had passed : `` Miss Hale , I had a round-robin from some of my men -- I suspect in Higgins ' handwriting -- stating their wish to work for me , if ever I was in a position to employ men again on my own behalf . 
I am glad of it , '' said Margaret , looking up straight into his face with her speaking eyes , and then dropping them under his eloquent glance . 
He gazed back at her for a minute , as if he did not know exactly what he was about . 
Then sighed ; and saying , `` I knew you would like it , '' he turned away , and never spoke to her again until he bid her a formal `` good night . '' 
As Mr. Lennox took his departure , Margaret said , with a blush that she could not repress , and with some hesitation , `` Can I speak to you to-morrow ? 
How she was learning to depend upon him ! 
It seemed as if any day now might give him the certainty , without having which he had determined never to offer to her again . 
`` I should always feel comfortable about the children , if I had Margaret settled down near me . 
As it is , I am always afraid of her going off to Cadiz . '' 
Mr. Thornton came true to his time ; and , after keeping him waiting for nearly an hour , Margaret came in looking very white and anxious . 
She began hurriedly : `` I am so sorry Mr. Lennox is not here , -- he could have done it so much better than I can . 
`` You are unjust , '' said Margaret , gently . 
And collecting herself once more , she went on rapidly turning over some law papers , and statements of accounts in a trembling hurried manner . 
Her voice had cleared itself and become more steady . 
Mr. Thornton did not speak , and she went on looking for some paper on which were written down the proposals for security ; for she was most anxious to have it all looked upon in the light of a mere business arrangement , in which the principal advantage would be on her side . 
While she sought for this paper , her very heart-pulse was arrested by the tone in which Mr. Thornton spoke . 
His voice was hoarse , and trembling with tender passion , as he said : -- `` Margaret ! '' 
For an instant she looked up ; and then sought to veil her luminous eyes by dropping her forehead on her hands . 
Again , stepping nearer , he besought her with another tremulous eager call upon her name . 
`` Margaret ! '' 
Still lower went the head ; more closely hidden was the face , almost resting on the table before her . 
He came close to her . 
He knelt by her side , to bring his face to a level with her ear ; and whispered -- panted out the words : -- `` Take care . 
-- Send me away at once , if I must go ; -- Margaret ! 
-- '' At that third call she turned her face , still covered with her small white hands , towards him , and laid it on his shoulder , hiding it even there ; and it was too delicious to feel her soft cheek against his , for him to wish to see either deep blushes or loving eyes . 
He clasped her close . 
At length she murmured in a broken voice : `` Oh , Mr. Thornton , I am not good enough ! '' 
After a minute or two , he gently disengaged her hands from her face , and laid her arms as they had once before been placed to protect him from the rioters . 
She slowly faced him , glowing with beautiful shame . 
she replied , with innocent curiosity . 
She looked at them , wondering for a minute , then she smiled a little as she said -- `` They are from Helstone , are they not ? 
`` I wanted to see the place where Margaret grew to what she is , even at the worst time of all , when I had no hope of ever calling her mine . 
`` You must give them to me , '' she said , trying to take them out of his hand with gentle violence . 
she whispered , after some time of delicious silence . 
said Margaret , `` or I shall try and show you your mother 's indignant tones as she says , ` That woman ! 
