About the time I mentioned she died ; and a few months afterwards he received a letter from her husband , acquainting him with his intention of marrying an Italian lady , and requesting my father to take charge of the infant Elizabeth , the only child of his deceased sister . 
My father did not hestitate , and immediately went to Italy , that he might accompany the little Elizabeth to her future home . 
These indications , and a desire to bind as closely as possible the ties of domestic love , determined my mother to consider Elizabeth as my future wife ; a design which she never found reason to repent . 
From his time Elizabeth Lavenza became my playfellow , and , as we grew older , my friend . 
She was docile and good tempered , yet gay and playful as a summer insect . 
Although she was lively and animated , her feelings were strong and deep , and her disposition uncommonly affectionate . 
No one could better enjoy liberty , yet no one could submit with more grace than she did to constraint and caprice . 
Her imagination was luxuriant , yet her capability of application was great . 
Her person was the image of her mind ; her hazel eyes , although as lively as a bird 's possessed an attractive softness . 
Her figure was light and airy ; and , though capable of enduring great fatigue , she appeared the most fragile creature in the world . 
While I admired her understanding and fancy , I loved to tend on her , as I should on a favourite animal ; and I never saw so much grace both of person and mind united to so little pretension . 
Every one adored Elizabeth . 
If the servants had any request to make , it was always through her intercession . 
I delighted in investigating the facts relative to the actual world ; she busied herself in following the aërial creations of the poets . 
The world was to me a secret , which I desired to discover ; to her it was a vacancy , which she sought to people with imaginations of her own . 
Elizabeth was not incited to apply herself to drawing , that her companions might not outstrip her ; but through the desire of pleasing her aunt , by the representation of some favourite scene done by her own hand . 
I disclosed my discoveries to Elizabeth , therefore , under a promise of strict secrecy ; but she did not interest herself in the subject , and I was left by her to pursue my studies alone . 
He had been afflicted with ill health from his infancy , through which Elizabeth and I had been his constant nurses : his disposition was gentle , but he was incapable of any severe application . 
Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever ; but her illness was not severe , and she quickly recovered . 
During her confinement , many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her . 
She had , at first , yielded to our entreaties ; but when she heard that her favourite was recovering , she could no longer debar herself from her society , and entered her chamber long before the danger of infection was past . 
She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself : `` My children , '' she said , `` my firmest hopes of future happiness were placed on the prospect of your union . 
Elizabeth , my love , you must supply my place to your younger cousins . 
She died calmly ; and her countenance expressed affection even in death . 
It is so long before the mind can persuade itself that she , whom we saw every day , and whose very existence appeared a part of our own , can have departed for ever -- that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been extinguished , and the sound of a voice so familiar , and dear to the ear , can be hushed , never more to be heard . 
This period was spent sadly ; my mother 's death , and my speedy departure , depressed our spirits ; but Elizabeth endeavoured to renew the spirit of cheerfulness in our little society . 
Since the death of her aunt , her mind had acquired new firmness and vigour . 
She determined to fulfil her duties with the greatest exactness ; and she felt that that most imperious duty , of rendering her uncle and cousins happy , had devolved upon her . 
She consoled me , amused her uncle , instructed my brothers ; and I never beheld her so enchanting as at this time , when she was continually endeavouring to contribute to the happiness of others , entirely forgetful of herself . 
Tears guished from the eyes of Elizabeth ; they proceeded partly from sorrow at my departure , and partly because she reflected that the same journey was to have taken place three months before , when a mother 's blessing would have accompanied me . 
I loved my brothers , Elizabeth , and Clerval these were `` old familiar faces ; '' but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers . 
I thought I saw Elizabeth , in the bloom of health , walking in the streets of Ingolstadt . 
Delighted and surprised , I embraced her ; but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips , they became livid with the hue of death ; her features appeared to change , and I thought that I held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms ; a shroud enveloped her form , and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel . 
Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval ; his presence brought back to my thoughts my father , Elizabeth , and all those scenes of home so dear to my recollection . 
`` It gives me the greatest delight to see you ; but tell me how you left my father , brothers , and Elizabeth . '' 
I afterwards learned that , knowing my father 's advanced age , and unfitness for so long a journey , and how wretched my sickness would make Elizabeth , he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my disorder . 
`` Dear , dear Elizabeth ! '' 
`` This account rather alarmed us , and we continued to search for him until night fell , when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have returned to the house . 
We returned again , with torches ; for I could not rest , when I thought that my sweet boy had lost himself , and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night : Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish . 
`` He was conveyed home , and the anguish that was visible in my countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth . 
She was very earnest to see the corpse . 
At first I attempted to prevent her ; but she persisted , and entering the room where it lay , hastily examined the neck of the victim , and clasping her hands exclaimed , ` O God ! 
`` She fainted , and was restored with extreme difficulty . 
When she again lived , it was only to weep and sigh . 
She told me , that that same evening William had teazed her to let him wear a very valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother . 
`` Come , dearest Victor ; you alone can console Elizabeth . 
She weeps continually , and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death ; her words pierce my heart . 
Poor Elizabeth also is quite inconsolable . '' 
and how is my poor Elizabeth ? '' 
`` She indeed requires consolation ; she accused herself of having caused the death of my brother , and that made her very wretched . 
`` I do not know what you mean ; but we were all very unhappy when she was discovered . 
No one would believe it at first ; and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced , notwithstanding all the evidence . 
We were soon joined by Elizabeth . 
Time had made great alterations in her form since I had last beheld her . 
Six years before she had been a pretty , good-humoured girl , whom every one loved and caressed . 
She was now a woman in stature and expression of countenance , which was uncommonly lovely . 
Her eyes were hazel , and expressive of mildness , now through recent affliction allied to sadness . 
Her hair was of a rich dark auburn , her complexion fair , and her figure slight and graceful . 
She welcomed me with the greatest affection . 
`` Your arrival , my dear cousin , '' said she , `` fills me with hope . 
`` She is innocent , my Elizabeth , '' said I , `` and that shall be proved ; fear nothing , but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance of her acquittal . '' 
every one else believes in her guilt , and that made me wretched ; for I knew that it was impossible : and to see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner , rendered me hopeless and despairing . '' 
She wept . 
The picture was then produced , which the servant had found in her pocket ; and when Elizabeth , in a faltering voice , proved that it was the same which , an hour before the child had been missed , she had placed round his neck , a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court . 
She then related that , by the permission of Elizabeth , she had passed the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed , at the house of an aunt at Chêne , a village situated at about a league from Geneva . 
Elizabeth saw even this last resource , her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct , about to fail the accused , when , although violently agitated , she desired permission to address the court . 
`` I am , '' said she , `` the cousin of the unhappy child who was murdered , or rather his sister , for I was educated by and have lived with his parents ever since and even long before his birth . 
Excellent Elizabeth ! 
A murmur of approbation was heard ; but it was excited by her generous interference , and not in favour of poor Justine , on whom the public indignation was turned with renewed violence , charging her with the blackest ingratitude . 
She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke , but she did not answer . 
I believed in her innocence ; I knew it . 
The tortures of the accused did not equal mine ; she was sustained by innocence , but the faugs of remorse tore my bosom , and would not forego their hold . 
When I returned home , Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result . 
This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth , who had relied with firmness upon Justine 's innocence . 
`` Yes , '' said Elizabeth , `` I will go , although she is guilty ; and you , Victor , shall accompany me : I can not go alone . '' 
She rose on seeing us enter ; and when we were left alone with her , she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth , weeping bitterly . 
said she , `` why did you rob me of my last consolation . 
Her voice was suffocated with sobs . 
`` Rise , my poor girl , '' said Elizabeth , `` why do you kneel , if you are innocent ? 
She paused , weeping , and then continued -- `` I thought with horror , my sweet lady , that you should believe your Justine , whom your blessed aunt had so highly honoured , and whom you loved , was a creature capable of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated . 
`` Dear , sweet Elizabeth , do not weep . 
`` No , Justine , '' said Elizabeth ; `` he is more convinced of your innocence than I was ; for even when he heard that you had confessed , he did not credit it . '' 
She indeed gained the resignation she desired . 
Elizabeth also wept , and was unhappy ; but her 's also was the misery of innocence , which , like a cloud that passes over the fair moon , for a while hides , but can not tarnish its brightness . 
We staid several hours with Justine ; and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear herself away . 
`` I wish , '' cried she , `` that I were to die with you ; I can not live in this world of misery . '' 
She embraced Elizabeth , and said , in a voice of half-suppressed emotion , `` Farewell , sweet lady , dearest Elizabeth , my beloved and only friend ; may heaven in its bounty bless and preserve you ; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever suffer . 
As we returned , Elizabeth said , `` You know not , my dear Victor , how much I am relieved , now that I trust in the innocence of this unfortunate girl . 
`` Do you think , Victor , '' said he , `` that I do not suffer also ? 
No one could love a child more than I loved your brother ; '' -LRB- tears came into his eyes as he spoke -RRB- ; `` but is it not a duty to the survivors , that we should refrain from augmenting their unhappiness by an appearance of immoderate grief ? 
But I was restrained , when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth , whom I tenderly loved , and whose existence was bound up in mine . 
Elizabeth was sad and desponding ; she no longer took delight in her ordinary occupations ; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead ; eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she should pay to innocence so blasted and destroyed . 
She was no longer that happy creature , who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake , and talked with ecstacy of our future prospects . 
She had become grave , and often conversed of the inconstancy of fortune , and the instability of human life . 
`` When I reflect , my dear cousin , '' said she , `` on the miserable death of Justine Moritz , I no longer see the world and its works as they before appeared to me . 
Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance , and kindly taking my hand said , `` My dearest cousin , you must calm yourself . 
She shed tears as she said this , distrusting the very solace that she gave ; but at the same time she smiled , that she might chase away the fiend that lurked in my heart . 
I had been there before , but Elizabeth and Ernest never had ; and both had often expressed an earnest desire to see the scenery of this place , which had been described to them as so wonderful and sublime . 
During this journey , I sometimes joined Elizabeth , and exerted myself to point out to her the various beauties of the scene . 
My father and Elizabeth were very much fatigued ; Ernest , who accompanied us , was delighted , and in high spirits : the only circumstance that detracted from his pleasure was the south wind , and the rain it seemed to promise for the next day . 
My father was pleased , and Elizabeth overjoyed . 
`` My dear cousin , '' said she , `` you see what happiness you diffuse when you are happy ; do not relapse again ! '' 
For myself , I was passive in all their arrangements ; and the gentle affection of my beloved Elizabeth was inadequate to draw me from the depth of my despair . 
I never saw any woman who excited , as Elizabeth does , my warmest admiration and affection . 
My father pleased himself with the reflection , that my union with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return to Geneva . 
Elizabeth approved of the reasons of my departure , and only regretted that she had not the same opportunities of enlarging her experience , and cultivating her understanding . 
She wept , however , as she bade me farewell , and entreated me to return happy and tranquil . 
`` We all , '' said she , `` depend upon you ; and if you are miserable , what must be our feelings ? '' 
I waited for my letters with feverish impatience : if they were delayed , I was miserable , and overcome by a thousand fears ; and when they arrived , and I saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father , I hardly dared to read and ascertain my fate . 
The prospect did not move me to fear ; yet when I thought of my beloved Elizabeth , -- of her tears and endless sorrow , when she should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her , -- tears , the first I had shed for many months , streamed from my eyes , and I resolved not to fall before my enemy without a bitter struggle . 
I thought of Elizabeth , of my father , and of Clerval ; and sunk into a reverie , so despairing and frightful , that even now , when the scene is on the point of closing before me for ever , I shudder to reflect on it . 
I stretched out my hand to him , and cried -- `` Are you then safe -- and Elizabeth -- and Ernest ? '' 
He talked of Geneva , which I should soon visit -- of Elizabeth , and Ernest ; but these words only drew deep groans from me . 
In this city , I received the following letter from Elizabeth : -- `` It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle dated at Paris ; you are no longer at a formidable distance , and I may hope to see you in less than a fortnight . 
you may possibly say ; what can Elizabeth have to explain ? 
`` Elizabeth Lavenza . 
Such would be my liberty , except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure ; alas ! 
Sweet and beloved Elizabeth ! 
I read and re-read her letter , and some softened feelings stole into my heart , and dared to whisper paradisaical dreams of love and joy ; but the apple was already eaten , and the angel 's arm bared to drive me from all hope . 
Yet I would die to make her happy . 
In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth . 
I have one secret , Elizabeth , a dreadful one ; when revealed to you , it will chill your frame with horror , and then , far from being surprised at my misery , you will only wonder that I survive what I have endured . 
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth 's letter , we returned to Geneva . 
My cousin welcomed me with warm affection ; yet tears were in her eyes , as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks . 
I saw a change in her also . 
She was thinner , and had lost much of that heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me ; but her gentleness , and soft looks of compassion , made her a more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I was . 
Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits ; her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion , and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor . 
She wept with me , and for me . 
When reason returned , she would remonstrate , and endeavour to inspire me with resignation . 
I love Elizabeth , and look forward to our union with delight . 
But death was no evil to me , if the loss of Elizabeth were balanced with it ; and I therefore , with a contented and even cheerful countenance , agreed with my father , that if my cousin would consent , the ceremony should take place in ten days , and thus put , as I imagined , the seal to my fate . 
But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity , that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father , but hardly deceived the ever-watchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth . 
She looked forward to our union with placid contentment , not unmingled with a little fear , which past misfortunes had impressed , that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness , might soon dissipate into an airy dream , and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret . 
Elizabeth seemed happy ; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to calm her mind . 
But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my destiny , she was melancholy , and a presentiment of evil pervaded her ; and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret , which I had promised to reveal to her the following day . 
After the ceremony was performed , a large party assembled at my father 's ; but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should pass the afternoon and night at Evian , and return to Cologny the next morning . 
I took the hand of Elizabeth : `` You are sorrowful , my love . 
`` Be happy , my dear Victor , '' replied Elizabeth ; `` there is , I hope , nothing to distress you ; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face , my heart is contented . 
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects . 
But her temper was fluctuating ; joy for a few instants shone in her eyes , but it continually gave place to distraction and reverie . 
Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence ; at length she said , `` What is it that agitates you , my dear Victor ? 
It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired . 
She was there , lifeless and inanimate , thrown across the bed , her head hanging down , and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair . 
Every where I turn I see the same figure -- her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier . 
I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth , my love , my wife , so lately living , so dear , so worthy . 
I rushed towards her , and embraced her with ardour ; but the deathly languor and coldness of the limbs told me , that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished . 
The murderous mark of the fiend 's grasp was on her neck , and the breath had ceased to issue from her lips . 
While I still hung over her in the agony of despair , I happened to look up . 
A grin was on the face of the monster ; he seemed to jeer , as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife . 
I rushed towards the window , and drawing a pistol from my bosom , shot ; but he eluded me , leaped from his station , and , running with the swiftness of lightning , plunged into the lake . 
I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared , and we followed the track with boats ; nets were cast , but in vain . 
At length I remembered that my father would anxiously expect the return of Elizabeth and myself , and that I must return alone . 
The rain had ceased for a moment , and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before ; they had then been observed by Elizabeth . 
As night approached , I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William , Elizabeth , and my father , reposed . 
During the day I was sustained and inspirited by the hope of night : for in sleep I saw my friends ; my wife , and my beloved country ; again I saw the benevolent countenance of my father , heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth 's voice , and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth . 
Never will I omit my search , until he or I perish ; and then with what ecstacy shall I join my Elizabeth , and those who even now prepare for me the reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage . 
Hear him not ; call on the manes of William , Justine , Clerval , Elizabeth , my father , and of the wretched Victor , and thrust your sword into his heart . 
Can any man be to me as Clerval was ; or any woman another Elizabeth ? 
But I enjoyed friends , dear not only through habit and association , but from their own merits ; and , wherever I am , the soothing voice of my Elizabeth , and the conversation of Clerval , will be ever whispered in my ear . 
