Maggie , Maggie , '' continued the mother , in a tone of half-coaxing fretfulness , as this small mistake of nature entered the room , `` where 's the use o ' my telling you to keep away from the water ? 
Maggie 's hair , as she threw off her bonnet , painfully confirmed her mother 's accusation : Mrs Tulliver , desiring her daughter to have a curled crop , `` like other folk 's children , '' had had it cut too short in front to be pushed behind the ears ; and as it was usually straight an hour after it had been taken out of paper , maggie was incessantly tossing her head to keep the dark heavy locks out of her gleaming black eyes -- an action which gave her very much the air of a small Shetland pony . 
`` O dear , O dear , Maggie , what are you thinkin ' of , to throw your bonnet down there ? 
`` O mother , '' said Maggie , in a vehemently cross tone , `` I do n't want to do my patchwork . '' 
`` It 's foolish work , '' said Maggie , with a toss of her mane , -- `` tearing things to pieces to sew 'em together again . 
Exit Maggie , dragging her bonnet by the string , while Mr Tulliver laughs audibly . 
At the sound of this name , Maggie , who was seated on a low stool close by the fire , with a large book open on her lap , shook her heavy hair back and looked up eagerly . 
There were few sounds that roused Maggie when she was dreaming over her book , but Tom 's name served as well as the shrillest whistle : in an instant she was on the watch , with gleaming eyes , like a Skye terrier suspecting mischief , or at all events determined to fly at any one who threatened it towards Tom . 
These angry symptoms were keenly observed by Maggie , and cut her to the quick . 
This was not to be borne ; and Maggie jumped up from her stool , forgetting all about her heavy book , which fell with a bang within the fender ; and going up between her father 's knees , said , in a half-crying , half-indignant voice -- `` Father , Tom would n't be naughty to you ever ; I know he would n't . '' 
Mrs Tulliver was out of the room superintending a choice supper-dish , and Mr Tulliver 's heart was touched ; so Maggie was not scolded about the book . 
said Mr Tulliver , looking at Maggie with a twinkling eye . 
Then , in a lower voice , turning to Mr Riley , as though Maggie could n't hear , `` She understands what one 's talking about so as never was . 
Maggie 's cheeks began to flush with triumphant excitement : she thought Mr Riley would have a respect for her now ; it had been evident that he thought nothing of her before . 
Mr Riley was turning over the leaves of the book , and she could make nothing of his face , with its high-arched eyebrows ; but he presently looked at her and said , `` Come , come and tell me something about this book ; here are some pictures -- I want to know what they mean . '' 
Maggie with deepening colour went without hesitation to Mr Riley 's elbow and looked over the book , eagerly seizing one corner and tossing back her mane , while she said , `` O , I 'll tell you what that means . 
He 's the devil really `` -LRB- here Maggie 's voice became louder and more emphatic -RRB- , `` and not a right blacksmith ; for the devil takes the shape of wicked men , and walks about and sets people doing wicked things , and he 's oftener in the shape of a bad man than any other , because , you know , if people saw he was the devil , and he roared at 'em , they 'd run away , and he could n't make 'em do what he pleased . '' 
Mr Tulliver had listened to this exposition of Maggie 's with petrifying wonder . 
Maggie looked hurt and discouraged , while her father said , `` Why , it 's one o ' the books I bought at Part-ridge 's sale . 
`` Well , '' said Mr Riley , in an admonitory patronising tone , as he patted Maggie on the head , `` I advise you to put by the ` History of the Devil , ' and read some prettier book . 
`` O yes , '' said Maggie , reviving a little in the desire to vindicate the variety of her reading , `` I know the reading in this book is n't pretty -- but I like the pictures , and I make stories to the pictures out of my own head , you know . 
`` Well , but there 's a great deal about the devil in that , '' said Maggie , triumphantly , `` and I 'll show you the picture of him in his true shape , as he fought with Christian . '' 
Maggie ran in an instant to the corner of the room , jumped on a chair , and reached down from the small bookcase a shabby old copy of Bunyan , which opened at once , without the least trouble of search , at the picture she wanted . 
`` Here he is , '' she said , running back to Mr Riley , `` and Tom coloured him for me with his paints when he was at home last holidays -- the body all black , you know , and the eyes red , like fire , because he 's all fire inside , and it shines out at his eyes . '' 
Maggie shut up the book at once , with a sense of disgrace , but not being inclined to see after her mother , she compromised the matter by going into a dark concer behind her father 's chair , and nursing her doll , towards which she had an occasional fit of fondness in Tom 's absence , neglecting its toilette , but lavishing so many warm kisses on it that the waxen cheeks had a wasted unhealthy appearance . 
said Mr Tulliver , as Maggie retired . 
`` Father , '' broke in Maggie , who had stolen unperceived to her father 's elbow again , listening with parted lips , while she held her doll topsy-turvy , and crushed its nose against the wood of the chair -- `` Father , is it a long way off where Tom is to go ? 
Maggie came round promptly in front of Mr Riley , and said , `` How far is it , please sir ? '' 
said Maggie , tossing her head haughtily , and turning away with the tears springing in her eyes . 
She began to dislike Mr Riley : it was evident he thought her silly and of no consequence . 
`` Hush , Maggie , for shame of you , asking questions and chattering , '' said her mother . 
It was a heavy disappointment to Maggie that she was not allowed to go with her father in the gig when he went to fetch Tom home from the academy ; but the morning was too wet , Mrs Tulliver said , for a little girl to go out in her best bonnet . 
Maggie took the opposite view very strongly , and it was a direct consequence of this difference of opinion that when her mother was in the act of brushing out the reluctant black crop , Maggie suddenly rushed from under her hands and dipped her head in a basin of water standing near -- in the vindictive determination that there should be no more chance of curls that day . 
`` Maggie , Maggie , '' exclaimed Mrs Tulliver , sitting stout and helpless with the brushes on her lap , `` what is to become of you if you 're so naughty ? 
Before this remonstrance was finished , Maggie was already out of hearing , making her way towards the great attic that ran under the old high-pitched roof , shaking the water from her black locks as she ran , like a Skye terrier escaped from his bath . 
This attic was Maggie 's favourite retreat on a wet day , when the weather was not too cold ; here she fretted out all her ill-humours , and talked aloud to the worm-eaten floors and the worm-eaten shelves , and the dark rafters festooned with cobwebs ; and here she kept a Fetish which she punished for all her misfortunes . 
Three nails driven into the head commemorated as many crises in Maggie 's nine years of earthly struggle ; that luxury of vengeance having been suggested to her by the picture of Jael destroying Sisera in the old Bible . 
But immediately afterwards Maggie had reflected that if she drove many nails in , she would not be so well able to fancy that the head was hurt when she knocked it against the wall , nor to comfort it , and make believe to poultice it , when her fury was abated ; for even aunt Glegg would be pitiable when she had been hurt very much , and thoroughly humiliated , so as to beg her niece 's pardon . 
Since then she had driven no more nails in , but had soothed herself by alternately grinding and beating the wooden head against the rough brick of the great chimneys that made two square pillars supporting the roof . 
That was what she did this morning on reaching the attic , sobbing all the while with a passion that expelled every other form of consciousness -- even the memory of the grievance that had caused it . 
As at last the sobs were getting quieter , and the grinding less fierce , a sudden beam of sunshine , falling through the wire lattice across the worm-eaten shelves , made her throw away the Fetish and run to the window . 
Maggie tossed her hair back and ran down-stairs , seized her bonnet without putting it on , peeped , and then dashed along the passage lest she should encounter her mother , and was quickly out in the yard , whirling round like a Pythoness , and singing as she whirled , `` Yap , Yap , Tom 's coming home ! '' 
while Yap danced and barked round her , as much as to say , if there was any noise wanted he was the dog for it . 
Maggie paused in her whirling and said , staggering a little , `` O no , it does n't make me giddy , Luke ; may I go into the mill with you ? '' 
Maggie loved to linger in the great spaces of the mill , and often came out with her black hair powdered to a soft whiteness that made her dark eyes flash out with new fire . 
The resolute din , the unresting motion of the great stones , giving her a dim delicious awe as at the presence of an uncontrollable force -- the meal for ever pouring , pouring -- the fine white powder softening all surfaces , and making the very spider-nets look like a faery lacework -- the sweet pure scent of the meal -- all helped to make Maggie feel that the mill was a little world apart from her outside everyday life . 
The spiders were especially a subject of speculation with her . 
She wondered if they had any relations outside the mill , for in that case there must be a painful difficulty in their family intercourse -- a fat and floury spider , accustomed to take his fly well dusted with meal , must suffer a little at a cousin 's table where the fly was au naturel , and the lady-spiders must be mutually shocked at each other 's appearance . 
But the part of the mill she liked best was the topmost story -- the corn-hutch , where there were the great heaps of grain , which she could sit on and slide down continually . 
She was in the habit of taking this recreation as she conversed with Luke , to whom she was very communicative , wishing him to think well of her understanding , as her father did . 
Perhaps she felt it necessary to recover her position with him on the present occasion , for , as she sat sliding on the heap of grain near which he was busying himself , she said , at that shrill pitch which was requisite in mill-society -- `` I think you never read any book but the Bible -- did you , Luke ? '' 
`` O , well , '' said Maggie , rather foiled by Luke 's unexpectedly decided views about Dutchmen , `` perhaps you would like ` Animated Nature ' better -- that 's not Dutchmen , you know , but elephants , and kangaroos , and the civet cat , and the sun-fish , and a bird sitting on its tail -- I forget its name . 
`` Why , you 're like my brother Tom , Luke , '' said Maggie , wishing to turn the conversation agreeably ; `` Tom 's not fond of reading . 
screamed Maggie , jumping up from her sliding seat on the corn . 
`` O dear , Luke , '' said Maggie , in a piteous tone , while the big tears rolled down her cheek ; `` Tom told me to take care of 'em , and I forgot . 
The invitation offered an agreeable distraction to Maggie 's grief , and her tears gradually subsided as she trotted along by Luke 's side to his pleasant cottage , which stood with its apple and pear trees , and with the added dignity of a lean-to pig-sty , close by the brink of the Ripple . 
Maggie actually forgot that she had any special cause of sadness this morning , as she stood on a chair to look at a remarkable series of pictures representing the Prodigal Son in the costume of Sir Charles Grandison , except that , as might have been expected from his defective moral character , he had not , like that accomplished hero , the taste and strength of mind to dispense with a wig . 
But the indefinable weight the dead rabbits had left on her mind caused her to feel more than usual pity for the career of this weak young man , particularly when she looked at the picture where he leaned against a tree with a flaccid appearance , his knee-breeches unbuttoned and his wig awry , while the swine , apparently of some foreign breed , seemed to insult him by their good spirits over their feast of husks . 
she said . 
That was a painful thought to Maggie , and she wished much that the subsequent history of the young man had not been left a blank . 
Tom was to arrive early in the afternoon , and there was another fluttering heart besides Maggie 's when it was late enough for the sound of the gig-wheels to be expected ; for if Mrs Tulliver had a strong feeling , it was fondness for her boy . 
At last the sound came -- that quick light bowling of the gig wheels -- and in spite of the wind , which was blowing the clouds about , and was not likely to respect Mrs Tulliver 's curls and cap-strings , she came outside the door , and even held her hand on Maggie 's offending head , forgetting all the griefs of the morning . 
Mrs Tulliver stood with her arms open ; Maggie jumped first on one leg and then on the other ; while Tom descended from the gig , and said , with masculine reticence as to the tender emotions , `` Hallo ! 
Nevertheless he submitted to be kissed willingly enough , though Maggie hung on his neck in rather a strangling fashion , while his blue-grey eyes wandered towards the croft and the lambs and the river , where he promised himself that he would begin to fish the first thing to-morrow morning . 
He was one of those lads that grow everywhere in England , and , at twelve or thirteen years of age , look as much alike as goslings : -- a lad with light-brown hair , cheeks of cream and roses , full lips , indeterminate nose and eyebrows -- a physiognomy in which it seems impossible to discern anything but the generic character of boyhood ; as different as possible from poor Maggie 's phiz , which Nature seemed to have moulded and coloured with the most decided intention . 
But that same Nature has the deep cunning which hides itself under the appearance of open-ness so that simple people think they can see through her quite well , and all the while she is secretly preparing a refutation of their confident prophecies . 
Under these average boyish physiognomies that she seems to turn off by the gross , she conceals some of her most rigid , inflexible purposes , some of her most unmodifiable characters ; and the dark-eyed , demonstrative , rebellious girl may after all turn out to be a passive being compared with this pink-and-white bit of masculinity with the indeterminate features . 
`` Maggie , '' said Tom , confidentially , taking her into a corner , as soon as his mother was gone out to examine his box , and the warm parlour had taken off the chill he had felt from the long drive , `` you do n't know what I 've got in my pockets , '' nodding his head up and down as a means of rousing her sense of mystery . 
`` No , '' said Maggie . 
Maggie 's heart sank a little , because Tom always said it was `` no good '' playing with her at those games -- she played so badly . 
said Maggie , in a whisper . 
`` Why it 's ... a ... new ... guess , Maggie ! '' 
`` O , I ca n't guess , Tom , '' said Maggie , impatiently . 
`` No , Tom , '' said Maggie , imploringly , laying hold of the arm that was held stiffly in the pocket . 
Tom 's arm slowly relaxed , and he said , `` Well , then , it 's a new fish-line -- two new uns -- one for you , Maggie , all to yourself . 
And you shall catch your own fish , Maggie , and put the worms on , and everything -- wont it be fun ? '' 
Maggie 's answer was to throw her arms round Tom 's neck and hug him , and hold her cheek against his without speaking , while he slowly unwound some of the line , saying , after a pause , `` Was n't I a good brother , now , to buy you a line all to yourself ? 
`` But I like to fancy how it would be , '' said Maggie , following him . 
`` O do n't bother , Maggie ! 
Maggie 's heart began to flutter with fear . 
She dared not tell the sad truth at once , but she walked after Tom in trembling silence as he went out , thinking how she could tell him the news so as to soften at once his sorrow and his anger ; for Maggie dreaded Tom 's anger of all things -- it was quite a different anger from her own . 
`` Tom , '' she said , timidly , when they were out of doors , `` how much money did you give for your rabbits ? '' 
Tom stopped immediately in his walk and turned round towards Maggie . 
And I do n't love you , Maggie . 
I 'm so very sorry , '' said Maggie , while the tears rushed fast . 
`` O , Tom , it 's very cruel , '' sobbed Maggie . 
`` O , please forgive me , Tom ; my heart will break , '' said Maggie , shaking with sobs , clinging to Tom 's arm , and laying her wet cheek on his shoulder . 
Tom shook her off , and stopped again , saying in a peremptory tone , `` Now , Maggie , you just listen , Are n't I a good brother to you ? '' 
`` Ye-ye-es , '' sobbed Maggie , her chin rising and falling convulsedly . 
`` But I did n't mean , '' said Maggie ; `` I could n't help it . '' 
With this terrible conclusion , Tom ran away from Maggie towards the mill , meaning to greet Luke there , and complain to him of Harry . 
Maggie stood motionless , except from her sobs for a minute or two ; then she turned round and ran into the house , and up to her attic , where she sat on the floor , and laid her head against the worm-eaten shelf , with a crushing sense of misery . 
Tom was come home , and she had thought how happy she should be -- and now he was cruel to her . 
What use was anything , if Tom did n't love her ? 
Had n't she wanted to give him the money , and said how very sorry she was ? 
She knew she was naughty to her mother , but she had never been naughty to Tom -- had never meant to be naughty to him . 
Maggie sobbed aloud , finding 's wretched pleasure in the hollow resonance that came through the long empty space of the attic . 
She never thought of beating or grinding her Fetish ; she was too miserable to be angry . 
Maggie soon thought she had been hours in the attic , and it must be tea-time , and they were all having their tea , and not thinking of her . 
Well , then , she would stay up there and starve herself -- hide herself behind the tub , and stay there all night ; and then they would all be frightened , and Tom would be sorry . 
Thus Maggie thought in the pride of her heart , as she crept behind the tub ; but presently she began to cry again at the idea that they did n't mind her being there . 
If she went down again to Tom now -- would he forgive her ? 
-- perhaps her father would be there , and he would take her part . 
But , then , she wanted Tom to forgive her because he loved her , not because his father told him . 
No , she would never go down if Tom did n't come to fetch her . 
This resolution lasted in great intensity for five dark minutes behind the tub ; but then the need of being loved , the strongest need in poor Maggie 's nature , began to wrestle with her pride , and soon threw it . 
She crept from behind her tub into the twilight of the long attic , but just then she heard a quick footstep on the stairs . 
Tom had been too much interested in his talk with Luke , in going the round of the premises , walking in and out where he pleased , and whittling sticks without any particular reason , except that he did n't whittle sticks at school , to think of Maggie and the effect his anger had produced on her . 
He meant to punish her , and that business having been performed , he occupied himself with other matters , like a practical person . 
-- both of them having supposed that Maggie and Tom had been together all the afternoon . 
He did n't want to `` tell '' of Maggie , though he was angry with her ; for Tom Tulliver was a lad of honour . 
`` You go and fetch her down , Tom , '' said Mr Tulliver , rather sharply , his perspicacity or his fatherly fondness for Maggie making him suspect that the lad had been hard upon `` the little un , '' else she would never have left his side . 
Tom never disobeyed his father , for Mr Tulliver was a peremptory man , and , as he said , would never let anybody get hold of his whip-hand ; but he went out rather sullenly , carrying his piece of plumcake , and not intending to reprieve Maggie 's punishment , which was no more than she deserved . 
It was Tom 's step , then , that Maggie heard on the stairs , when her need of love had triumphed over her pride , and she was going down with her swollen eyes and dishevelled hair to beg for pity . 
At least her father would stroke her head and say , `` Never mind , my wench . '' 
But she knew Tom 's step , and her heart began to beat violently with the sudden shock of hope . 
He only stood still at the top of the stairs and said , `` Maggie , you 're to come down . '' 
But she rushed to him and clung round his neck , sobbing , `` O Tom , please forgive me -- I ca n't bear it -- I will always be good -- always remember things -- do love me -- please , dear Tom ? '' 
Maggie and Tom were still very much like young animals , and so she could rub her cheek against his , and kiss his ear in a random , sobbing way ; and there were tender fibres in the lad that had been used to answer to Maggie 's fondling ; so that he behaved with a weakness quite inconsistent with his resolution to punish her as much as she deserved : he actually began to kiss her in return , and say -- `` Do n't cry , then , Magsie -- here , eat a bit o ' cake . '' 
Maggie 's sobs began to subside , and she put out her mouth for the cake and bit a piece ; and then Tom bit a piece , just for company , and they ate together and rubbed each other 's cheeks and brows and noses together , while they ate , with a humiliating resemblance to two friendly ponies . 
So ended the sorrows of this day , and the next morining Maggie was trotting with her own fishing-rod in one hand and a handle of the basket in the other , stepping always , by a peculiar gift , in the muddiest places , and looking darkly radiant from under her beaver-bonnet because Tom was good to her . 
She had told Tom , however , that she should like him to put the worms on the hook for her , although she accepted his word when he assured her that worms could n't feel -LRB- it was Tom 's private opinion that it did n't much matter if they did -RRB- . 
Maggie thought this sort of knowledge was very wonderful -- much more difficult than remembering what was in the books ; and she was rather in awe of Tom 's superiority , for he was the only person who called her knowledge `` stuff , '' and did not feel surprised at her cleverness . 
Tom , indeed , was of opinion that Maggie was a silly little thing ; all girls were silly -- they could n't throw a stone so as to hit anything , could n't do anything with a pocket-knife , and were frightened at frogs . 
The sight of the old favourite spot always heightened Tom 's good-humour , and he spoke to Maggie in the most amicable whispers , as he opened the precious basket and prepared their tackle . 
He threw her line for her , and put the rod into her hand . 
Maggie thought it probable that the small fish would come to her hook , and the large ones to Tom 's . 
But she had forgotten all about the fish , and was looking dreamily at the glassy water , when Tom said , in a loud whisper , `` Look , look , Maggie ! '' 
and came running to prevent her from snatching her line away . 
Maggie was frightened lest she had been doing something wrong , as usual , but presently Tom drew out her line and brought a large tench bouncing on the grass . 
Maggie was not conscious of unusual merit , but it was enough that Tom called her Magsie , and was pleased with her . 
There was nothing to mar her delight in the whispers and the dreamy silences , when she listened to the light dipping sounds of the rising fish , and the gentle rustling , as if the willows and the reeds and the water had their happy whisperings also . 
Maggie thought it would make a very nice heaven to sit by the pool in that way , and never be scolded . 
She never knew she had a bite till Tom told her , but she liked fishing very much . 
And the mill with its booming -- the great chestnut-tree under which they played at houses -- their own little river , the Ripple , where the banks seemed like home , and Tom was always seeing the water-rats , while Maggie gathered the purple plumy tops of the reeds , which she forgot and dropped afterwards -- above all , the great Floss , along which they wandered with a sense of travel , to see the rushing spring-tide , the awful Eagre , come up like a hungry monster , or to see the Great Ash which had once wailed and groaned like a man -- these things would always be just the same to them . 
Tom thought people were at a disadvantage who lived on any other spot of the globe ; and Maggie , when she read about Christiana passing `` the river over which there is no bridge , '' always saw the Floss between the green pastures by the Great Ash . 
Life did change for Tom and Maggie ; and yet they were not wrong in believing that the thoughts and loves of these first years would always make part of their lives . 
Maggie 's ten times naughtier when they come than she is other days , and Tom does n't like 'em , bless him -- though it 's more nat ` ral in a boy than a gell . 
In other respects the true Dodson was partly latent in Tom , and he was as far from appreciating his `` kin '' on the mother 's side as Maggie herself ; generally absconding for the day with a large supply of the most portable food , when he received timely warning that his aunts and uncles were coming ; a moral symptom from which his aunt Glegg deduced the gloomiest views of his future . 
It was rather hard on Maggie that Tom always absconded without letting her into the secret , but the weaker sex are acknowledged to be serious impedimenta in cases of flight . 
Tom and Maggie made several inroads into the kitchen , and , like other marauders , were induced to keep aloof for a time only by being allowed to carry away a sufficient load of booty . 
`` Tom , '' said Maggie , as they sat on the boughs of the elder-tree , eating their jam puffs , `` shall you run away to-morrow ? '' 
said Maggie , exerting her hypothetic powers , while she leaned forward towards Tom with her eyes fixed on the hovering knife . 
At last he said -- `` Shut your eyes , Maggie . '' 
Maggie obeyed . 
`` Now , which 'll you have , Maggie -- right hand or left ? '' 
`` I 'll have that with the jam run out , '' said Maggie , keeping her eyes shut to please Tom . 
said Tom , in a tone of exasperation , as Maggie peeped . 
Maggie 's power of sacrifice did not extend so far ; indeed , I fear she cared less that Tom should enjoy the utmost possible amount of puff , than that he should be pleased with her for giving him the best bit . 
So she shut her eyes quite close , till Tom told her to `` say which , '' and then she said , `` Left-hand . '' 
`` No ; here , take it , '' said Tom , firmly , handing decidedly the best piece to Maggie . 
Maggie , thinking it was no use to contend further , began too , and ate up her half puff with considerable relish as well as rapidity . 
But Tom had finished first , and had to look on while Maggie ate her last morsel or two , feeling in himself a capacity for more . 
Maggie did n't know Tom was looking at her : she was seesawing on the elder bough , lost to almost everything but a vague sense of jam and idleness . 
said Tom , when she had swallowed the last morsel . 
He was conscious of having acted very fairly , and thought she ought to have considered this , and made up to him for it . 
Maggie turned quite pale . 
`` But I wanted you to have it -- you know I did , '' said Maggie , in an injured tone . 
But Maggie , gifted with that superior power of misery which distinguishes the human being , and places him at a proud distance from the most melancholy chimpanzee , sat still on her bough , and gave herself up to the keen sense of unmerited reproach . 
She would have given the world not to have eaten all her puff , and to have saved some of it for tom . 
Not but that the puff was very nice , for Maggie 's palate was not at all obtuse , but she would have gone without it many times over , sooner than Tom should call her greedy and be cross with her . 
And he had said he would n't have it -- and she ate it without thinking -- how could she help it ? 
The tears flowed so plentifully that Maggie saw nothing around her for the next ten minutes ; but by that time resentment began to give way to the desire of reconciliation , and she jumped from her bough to look for Tom . 
Maggie ran to the high bank against the great holly-tree , where she could see far away towards the Floss . 
There was Tom ; but her heart sank again as she saw how far off he was on his way to the great river , and that he had another companion besides Yap -- naughty Bob Jakin , whose official , if not natural function , of frightening the birds , was just now at a standstill . 
Maggie felt sure that Bob was wicked , without very distinctly knowing why ; unless it was because Bob 's mother was a dreadfully large fat woman , who lived at a queer round house down the river ; and once , when Maggie and Tom had wandered thither , there rushed out a brindled dog that would n't stop barking ; and when Bob 's mother came out after it , and screamed above the barking to tell them not to be frightened , Maggie thought she was scolding them fiercely , and her heart beat with terror . 
Maggie thought it very likely that the round house had snakes on the floor , and bats in the bedroom ; for she had seen Bob take off his cap to show Tom a little snake that was inside it , and another time he had a handful of young bats : altogether , he was an irregular character , perhaps even slightly diabolical , judging from his intimacy with snakes and bats ; and to crown all , when Tom had Bob for a companion , he did n't mind about Maggie , and would never let her go with him . 
Such qualities in an inferior , who could always be treated with authority in spite of his superior knowingness , had necessarily a fatal fascination for Tom ; and every holiday-time Maggie was sure to have days of grief because he had gone off with Bob . 
there was no hope for it : he was gone now , and Maggie could think of no comfort but to sit down by the holly , or wander by the hedgerow , and fancy it was all different , refashioning her little world into just what she should like it to be . 
Maggie 's was a troublous life , and this was the form in which she took her opium . 
Meanwhile Tom , forgetting all about Maggie and the sting of reproach which he had left in her heart , was hurrying along with Bob , whom he had met accidentally , to the scene of a great rat-catching in a neighbouring barn . 
Maggie saw a cloud on his brow when he came home , which checked her joy at his coming so much sooner than she had expected , and she dared hardly speak to him as he stood silently throwing the small gravel-stones into the mill-dam . 
That was his usual mode of viewing his past actions ; whereas Maggie was always wishing she had done something different . 
As she sat in Mrs Tulliver 's arm-chair , no impartial observer could have denied that for a woman of fifty she had a very comely face and figure , though Tom and Maggie considered their aunt Glegg as the type of ugliness . 
It is true she despised the advantages of costume , for though , as she often observed , no woman had better clothes , it was not her way to wear her new things out before her old ones . 
In this particular , however , Mrs Glegg did her sister Bessy some injustice , for Mrs Tulliver had really made great efforts to induce Maggie to wear a leghorn bonnet and a dyed silk frock made out of her aunt Glegg 's , but the results had been such that Mrs Tulliver was obliged to bury them in her maternal bosom ; for Maggie , declaring that the frock smelt of nasty dye , had taken an opportunity of basting it together with the roast-beef the first Sunday she wore it , and , finding this scheme answer , she had subsequently pumped on the bonnet with its green ribbons , so as to give it a general resemblance to a sage cheese garnished with withered lettuces . 
I must urge in excuse for Maggie , that Tom had laughed at her in the bonnet , and said she looked like an old Judy . 
Aunt Pullet , too , made presents of clothes , but these were always pretty enough to please Maggie as well as her mother . 
Of all her sisters , Mrs Tulliver certainly preferred her sister Pullet , not without a return of preference ; but Mrs Pullet was sorry Bessy had those naughty awkward children ; she would do the best she could by them , but it was a pity they were n't as good and as pretty as sister Deane 's child . 
Maggie and Tom , on their part , thought their aunt Pullet tolerable , chiefly because she was not their aunt Glegg . 
Maggie shuddered at the toads , and dreamed of them horribly , but she liked her uncle Pullet 's musical snuff-box . 
As for Maggie , she was the picture of her aunt Moss , Mr Tulliver 's sister , -- a large-boned woman , who had married as poorly as could be ; had no china , and had a husband who had much ado to pay his rent . 
And Maggie always looked twice as dark as usual when she was by the side of Lucy . 
Maggie had thrown her bonnet off very carelessly , and , coming in with her hair rough as well as out of curl , rushed at once to Lucy , who was standing by her mother 's knee . 
Certainly the contrast between the cousins was conspicuous , and , to superficial eyes , was very much to the disadvantage of Maggie , though a connoisseur might have seen `` points '' in her which had a higher promise for maturity than Lucy 's natty completeness . 
It was like the contrast between a rough , dark , overgrown puppy and a white kitten Lucy put up the neatest little rosebud mouth to be kissed : everything about her was neat -- her little round neck , with the row of coral beads ; her little straight nose , not at all snubby ; her little clear eyebrows , rather darker than her curls , to match her hazel eyes , which looked up with shy pleasure at Maggie , taller by the head , though scarcely a year older . 
Maggie always looked at Lucy with delight . 
She was fond of fancying a world where the people never got any larger than children of their own age , and she made the queen of it just like Lucy , with a little crown on her head and a little sceptre in her hand ... only the queen was Maggie herself in Lucy 's form . 
Tom , too , had come up to Lucy , but he was not going to kiss her -- no ; he came up to her with Maggie because it seemed easier , on the whole , than saying , `` How do you do ? '' 
She wanted to whisper to Maggie a command to go and have her hair brushed . 
`` Put your hair behind your ears , Maggie , and keep your frock on your shoulder . '' 
`` I ca n't say , I 'm sure , sister , '' said Mrs Deane , shutting her lips close again , and looking at Maggie with a critical eye . 
A dreadful resolve was gathering in Maggie 's breast , but it was arrested by the desire to know from her aunt Deane whether she would leave Lucy behind : aunt Deane would hardly ever let Lucy come to see them . 
`` Maggie , '' said Mrs Tulliver , beckoning Maggie to her , and whispering in her ear , as soon as this point of Lucy 's staying was settled , `` go and get your hair brushed -- do , for shame . 
`` Tom , come out with me , '' whispered Maggie , pulling his sleeve as she passed him ; and Tom followed willingly enough . 
`` Come up-stairs with me , Tom , '' she whispered when they were outside the door . 
Tom followed Maggie up-stairs into her mother 's room , and saw her go at once to a drawer , from which she took out a large pair of scissors . 
`` What are they for , Maggie ? '' 
Maggie answered by seizing her front locks and cutting them straight across the middle of her forehead . 
`` O , my buttons , Maggie , you 'll catch it ! '' 
went the great scissors again while Tom was speaking ; and he could n't help feeling it was rather good fun : Maggie would look so queer . 
`` Here , Tom , cut it behind for me , '' said Maggie , excited by her own daring , and anxious to finish the deed . 
said Maggie , giving a little stamp with her foot . 
Her cheeks were quite flushed . 
One delicious grinding snip , and then another and another , and the hinder-locks fell heavily on the floor , and Maggie stood cropped in a jagged uneven manner , but with a sense of clearness and freedom , as if she had emerged from a wood into the open plain . 
`` O , Maggie , '' said Tom , jumping round her , and slapping his knees as he laughed , `` O , my buttons , what a queer thing you look ! 
Maggie felt an unexpected pang . 
She had thought beforehand chiefly of her own deliverance from her teasing hair and teasing remarks about it , and something also of the triumph she should have over her mother and her aunts by this very decided course of action : she did n't want her hair to look pretty -- that was out of the question -- she only wanted people to think her a clever little girl , and not to find fault with her . 
But now , when Tom began to laugh at her , and say she was like the idiot , the affair had quite a new aspect . 
She looked in the glass , and still Tom laughed and clapped his hands , and Maggie 's flushed cheeks began to pale , and her lips to tremble a little . 
`` O Maggie , you 'll have to go down to dinner directly , '' said Tom . 
`` Do n't laugh at me , Tom , '' said Maggie , in a passionate tone , with an outburst of angry tears , stamping , and giving him a push . 
He hurried down-stairs and left poor Maggie to that bitter sense of the irrevocable which was almost an everyday experience of her small soul . 
She could see clearly enough , now the thing was done , that it was very foolish , and that she should have to hear and think more about her hair than ever ; for Maggie rushed to her deeds with passionate impulse , and then saw not only their consequences , but what would have happened if they had not been done , with all the detail and exaggerated circumstance of an active imagination . 
Tom never did the same sort of foolish things as Maggie , having a wonderful , instinctive discernment of what would turn to his advantage or disadvantage ; and so it happened , that though he was much more wilful and inflexible than Maggie , his mother hardly ever called him naughty . 
But Maggie , as she stood crying before the glass , felt it impossible that she should go down to dinner and endure the severe eyes and severe words of her aunts , while Tom , and Lucy , and Martha , who waited at table , and perhaps her father and her uncles , would laugh at her , -- for if Tom had laughed at her , of course every one else would ; and if she had only let her hair alone , she could have sat with Tom and Lucy , and had the apricot pudding and the custard ! 
Very trivial , perhaps , this anguish seems to weather-worn mortals who have to think of Christmas bills , dead loves , and broken friendships ; but it was not less bitter to Maggie -- perhaps it was even more bitter -- than what we are fond of calling antithetically the real troubles of mature life . 
`` Do n't , Kezia , '' said Maggie , angrily . 
`` But I tell you , you 're to come down , Miss , this minute : your mother says so , '' said Kezia , going up to Maggie and taking her by the hand to raise her from the floor . 
`` Get away , Kezia ; I do n't want any dinner , '' said Maggie , resisting Kezia 's arm . 
`` Maggie , you little silly , '' said Tom , peeping into the room ten minutes after , `` why do n't you come and have your dinner ? 
Tom was so hard and unconcerned : if he had been crying on the floor , Maggie would have cried too . 
And there was the dinner , so nice ; and she was so hungry . 
He was not inclined to cry , and did not feel that Maggie 's grief spoiled his prospect of the sweets ; but he went and put his head near her , and said in a lower , comforting tone -- `` Wo n't you come , then , Magsie ? 
`` Ye-e-es , '' said Maggie , beginning to feel life a little more tolerable . 
Maggie 's tears had ceased , and she looked reflective as Tom left her . 
His good-nature had taken off the keenest edge of her suffering , and nuts with cowslip wine began to assert their legitimate influence . 
Slowly she rose from amongst her scattered locks , and slowly she made her way down-stairs . 
Then she stood leaning with one shoulder against the frame of the dining-parlour door , peeping in when it was ajar . 
She saw Tom and Lucy with an empty chair between them , and there were the custards on a side-table -- it was too much . 
She slipped in and went towards the empty chair . 
But she had no sooner sat down than she repented , and wished herself back again . 
For Kezia had not betrayed the reason of Maggie 's refusal to come down , not liking to give her mistress a shock in the moment of carving , and Mrs Tulliver thought there was nothing worse in question than a fit of perverseness , which was inflicting its own punishment by depriving Maggie of half her dinner . 
Mrs Tulliver 's scream made all eyes turn towards the same point as her own , and Maggie 's cheeks and ears began to burn , while uncle Glegg , a kind-looking , white-haired old gentleman , said -- `` Hey-day ! 
Maggie seemed to be listening to a chorus of reproach and derision . 
Her first flush came from anger , which gave her a transient power of defiance , and Tom thought she was braving it out , supported by the recent appearance of the pudding and custard . 
Maggie , I told you you 'd catch it . '' 
He meant to be friendly , but Maggie felt convinced that Tom was rejoicing in her ignominy . 
Her feeble power of defiance left her in an instant , her heart swelled , and , getting up from her chair , she ran to her father , hid her face on his shoulder , and burst out into loud sobbing . 
`` Come , come , my wench , '' said her father , soothingly , putting his arm round her , `` never mind ; you was i ' the right to cut it off if it plagued you ; give over crying : father 'll take your part . '' 
Maggie never forgot any of these moments when her father `` took her part ; '' she kept them in her heart , and thought of them long years after , when every one else said that her father had done very ill by his children . 
`` It 'll be the ruin of her , if you do n't take care . 
With the dessert there came entire deliverance for Maggie , for the children were told they might have their nuts and wine in the summer-house , since the day was so mild , and they scampered out among the budding bushes of the garden with the alacrity of small animals getting from under a burning-glass . 
My little uns want to see their cousin Maggie , so as never was . 
And me her god-mother , and so fond of her -- there 's nobody ` ud make a bigger fuss with her , according to what they 've got . 
And I know she likes to come , for she 's a loving child , and how quick and clever she is , to be sure ! '' 
If Mrs Moss had been one of the most astute women in the world , instead of being one of the simplest , she could have thought of nothing more likely to propitiate her brother than this praise of Maggie . 
But Maggie always appeared in the most amiable light at her aunt Moss 's : it was her Alsatia , where she was out of the reach of law -- if she upset anything , dirtied her shoes , or tore her frock , these things were matters of course at her aunt Moss 's . 
In spite of himself , Mr Tulliver 's eyes got milder , and he did not look away from his sister , as he said , `` Ay : she 's fonder o ' you than o ' the other aunts , I think . 
She takes after our family : not a bit of her mother 's in her . '' 
`` Moss says she 's just like what I used to be , said Mrs Moss , `` though I was never so quick and fond o ' the books . 
She was inferior enough to Maggie in fire and strength of expression , to make the resemblance between the two entirely flattering to Mr Tulliver 's fatherly love . 
He had not a rapid imagination , but the thought of Maggie was very near to him , and he was not long in seeing his relation to his own sister side by side with Tom 's relation to Maggie . 
Would the little wench ever be poorly off , and Tom rather hard upon her ? 
`` Thank you for that word , brother , '' said Mrs Moss , drying her tears ; then turning to Lizzy , she said , `` Run now , and fetch the coloured egg for cousin Maggie . '' 
`` It 's boiled hard , brother , and coloured with thrums -- very pretty : it was done o ' purpose for Maggie . 
It had come across his mind that if he were hard upon his sister , it might somehow tend to make Tom hard upon Maggie at some distant day , when her father was no longer there to take her part ; for simple people , like our friend Mr Tulliver , are apt to clothe unimpeachable feelings in erroneous ideas , and this was his confused way of explaining to himself that his love and anxiety for `` the little wench '' had given him a new sensibility towards his sister . 
While the possible troubles of Maggie 's future were occupying her father 's mind , she herself was tasting only the bitterness of the present . 
The fact was , the day had begun ill with Maggie . 
in a tone of mingled disgust and pity , which to Maggie 's imagination was equivalent to the strongest expression of public opinion . 
Mr Rappit , the hair-dresser , with his well-anointed coronal locks tending wavily upward , like the simulated pyramid of flame on a monumental urn , seemed to her at that moment the most formidable of her contemporaries , into whose street at St Ogg 's she would carefully refrain from entering through the rest of her life . 
Already , at twelve o'clock , Mrs Tulliver had on her visiting costume , with a protective apparatus of brown holland , as if she had been a piece of satin furniture in danger of flies ; Maggie was frowning and twisting her shoulders , that she might if possible shrink away from the prickliest of tuckers , while her mother was remonstrating , `` Do n't , Maggie , my dear -- do n't look so ugly ! '' 
As for Lucy , she was just as pretty and neat as she had been yesterday : no accidents ever happened to her clothes , and she was never uncomfortable in them , so that she looked with wondering pity at Maggie pouting and writhing under the exasperating tucker . 
Maggie would certainly have torn it off , if she had not been checked by the remembrance of her recent humiliation about her hair : as it was , she confined herself to fretting and twisting , and behaving peevishly about the cardhouses which they were allowed to build till dinner , as a suitable amusement for boys and girls in their best clothes . 
Tom could build perfect pyramids of houses ; but Maggie 's would never bear the laying-on of the roof : -- it was always so with the things that Maggie made ; and Tom had deduced the conclusion that no girls could ever make anything . 
Maggie , too , would have admired Lucy 's houses , and would have given up her own unsuccessful building to contemplate them , without ill-temper , if her tucker had not made her peevish , and if Tom had not inconsiderately laughed when her houses fell , and told her she was `` a stupid . '' 
she burst out , angrily , `` I 'm not a stupid . 
`` Then it 's very wicked and cruel of you to wish so , '' said Maggie , starting up hurriedly from her place on the floor , and upsetting Tom 's wonderful pagoda . 
She really did not mean it , but the circumstantial evidence was against her , and Tom turned white with anger , but said nothing : he would have struck her , only he knew it was cowardly to strike a girl , and Tom Tulliver was quite determined he would never do anything cowardly . 
Maggie stood in dismay and terror while Tom got up from the floor and walked away , pale , from the scattered ruins of his pagoda , and Lucy looked on mutely , like a kitten pausing from its lapping . 
`` O Tom , '' said Maggie , at last , going half-way towards him , `` I did n't mean to knock it down -- indeed , indeed I did n't . '' 
Tom took no notice of her , but took , instead , two or three hard peas out of his pocket , and shot them with his thumb-nail against the window -- vaguely at first , but presently with the distinct aim of hitting a superannuated blue-bottle which was exposing its imbecility in the spring sunshine , clearly against the views of nature , who had provided Tom and the peas for the speedy destruction of this weak individual . 
Thus the morning had been made heavy to Maggie , and Tom 's persistent coldness to her all through their walk spoiled the fresh air and sunshine for her . 
He called Lucy to look at the half-built bird 's nest without caring to show it Maggie , and peeled a willow switch for Lucy and himself , without offering one to Maggie . 
Lucy had said , `` Maggie , should n't you like one ? '' 
inquired Mrs Tulliver , who saw that Maggie and Lucy were looking rather eager . 
Lucy laid hold of Maggie 's frock , and Maggie 's heart beat rapidly . 
The delicious scent of rose-leaves that issued from the wardrobe , made the process of taking out sheet after sheet of silver-paper quite pleasant to assist at , though the sight of the bonnet at last was an anticlimax to Maggie , who would have preferred something more strikingly preternatural . 
Maggie , looking on attentively , felt that there was some painful mystery about her aunt 's bonnet which she was considered too young to understand ; indignantly conscious , all the while , that she could have understood that , as well as everything else , if she had been taken into confidence . 
When they went down , uncle Pullet observed , with some acumen , that he reckoned the missis had been showing her bonnet -- that was what had made them so long up-stairs . 
As for Maggie , becoming fascinated , as usual , by a print of Ulysses and Nausicaa , which uncle Pullet had bought as a `` pretty Scripture thing , '' she presently let fall her cake , and in an unlucky movement crushed it beneath her foot -- a source of so much agitation to aunt Pullet and conscious disgrace to Maggie , that she began to despair of hearing the musical snuff-box to-day , till , after some reflection , it occurred to her that Lucy was in high favour enough to venture on asking for a tune . 
So she whispered to Lucy , and Lucy , who always did what she was desired to do , went up quietly to her uncle 's knee , and , blushing all over her neck while she fingered her necklace , said , `` Will you please play us a tune , uncle ? '' 
Perhaps the suspense did heighten Maggie 's enjoyment when the fairy tune began : for the first time she quite forgot that she had a load on her mind -- that Tom was angry with her ; and by the time `` Hush , ye pretty warbling choir , '' had been played , her face wore that bright look of happiness , while she sat immovable with her hands clasped , which sometimes comforted her mother with the sense that Maggie could look pretty now and then , in spite of her brown skin . 
But when the magic music ceased , she jumped up , and , running towards Tom , put her arm round his neck and said , `` O , Tom , is n't it pretty ? '' 
Lest you should think it showed a revolting insensibility in Tom that he felt any new anger towards Maggie for this uncalled-for , and , to him , inexplicable caress , I must tell you that he had his glass of cowslip wine in his hand , and that she jerked him so as to make him spill half of it . 
especially when his resentment was sanctioned , as it was , by general disapprobation of Maggie 's behaviour . 
`` Why do n't you sit still , Maggie ? '' 
her mother said peevishly . 
Poor Maggie sat down again , with the music all chased out of her soul , and the seven small demons all in again . 
`` But the right thing ` ud be for Tulliver to go and make it up with her himself , and say he was sorry for speaking so rash . 
If he 's borrowed money of her , he should n't be above that , '' said Mrs Pullet , whose partiality did not blind her to principles : she did not forget what was due to people of independent fortune . 
To account for this unprecedented apparition in aunt Pullet 's parlour , we must return to the moment when the three children went to play out of doors , and the small demons who had taken possession of Maggie 's soul at an early period of the day had returned in all the greater force after a temporary absence . 
All the disagreeable recollections of the morning were thick upon her , when Tom , whose displeasure towards her had been considerably refreshed by her foolish trick of causing him to upset his cowslip wine , said , `` Here , Lucy , you come along with me , '' and walked off to the area where the toads were , as if there were no Maggie in existence . 
Seeing this , Maggie lingered at a distance , looking like a small Medusa with her snakes cropped . 
Still Lucy wished Maggie to enjoy the spectacle also , especially as she would doubtless find a name for the toad , and say what had been his past history ; for Lucy had a delighted semi-belief in Maggie 's stories about the live things they came upon by accident -- how Mrs Earwig had a wash at home , and one of her children had fallen into the hot copper , for which reason she was running so fast to fetch the doctor . 
Tom had a profound contempt for this nonsense of Maggie 's , smashing the earwig at once as a superfluous yet easy means of proving the entire unreality of such a story ; but Lucy , for the life of her , could not help fancying there was something in it , and at all events thought it was very pretty make-believe . 
So now the desire to know the history of a very portly toad , added to her habitual affectionateness , made her run back to Maggie and say , `` O , there is such a big , funny toad , Maggie ! 
Maggie said nothing , but turned away from her with a deeper frown . 
Maggie would have thought a little while ago that she could never be cross with pretty little Lucy , any more than she could be cruel to a little white mouse ; but then , Tom had always been quite indifferent to Lucy before , and it had been left to Maggie to pet and make much of her . 
As it was , she was actually beginning to think that she should like to make Lucy cry , by slapping or pinching her , especially as it might vex Tom , whom it was of no use to slap , even if she dared , because he did n't mind it . 
And if Lucy had n't been there , Maggie was sure he would have got friends with her sooner . 
Maggie saw them leaving the garden , and could not resist the impulse to follow . 
Anger and jealousy can no more bear to lose sight of their objects than love , and that Tom and Lucy should do or see anything of which she was ignorant would have been an intolerable idea to Maggie . 
So she kept a few yards behind them , unobserved by Tom , who was presently absorbed in watching for the pike -- a highly interesting monster ; he was said to be so very old , so very large , and to have such a remarkable appetite . 
Maggie had drawn nearer and nearer -- she must see it too , though it was bitter to her like everything else , since Tom did not care about her seeing it . 
At last , she was close by Lucy , and Tom , who had been aware of her approach , but would not notice it till he was obliged , turned round and said -- `` Now , get away , Maggie . 
There were passions at war in Maggie at that moment to have made a tragedy , if tragedies were made by passion only , but the essential ti megeqoV which was present in the passion was wanting to the action ; the utmost Maggie could do , with a fierce thrust of her small brown arm , was to push poor little pink-and-white Lucy into the cow-trodden mud . 
Then Tom could not restrain himself , and gave Maggie two smart slaps on the arm as he ran to pick up Lucy , who lay crying helplessly . 
Maggie retreated to the roots of a tree a few yards off , and looked on impenitently . 
Usually her repentance came quickly after one rash deed , but now Tom and Lucy had made her so miserable , she was glad to spoil their happiness -- glad to make everybody uncomfortable . 
It was not Tom 's practice to `` tell , '' but here justice clearly demanded that Maggie should be visited with the utmost punishment : not that Tom had learnt to put his views in that abstract form ; he never mentioned `` justice , '' and had no idea that his desire to punish might be called by that fine name . 
She could never have guessed what she had done to make Maggie angry with her ; but she felt that Maggie was very unkind and disagreeable , and made no magnanimous entreaties to Tom that he would not `` tell , '' only running along by his side and crying piteously , while Maggie sat on the roots of the tree and looked after them with her small Medusa face . 
`` Sally , '' said Tom , when they reached the kitchen door , and Sally looked at them in speechless amaze , with a piece of bread-and-butter in her mouth and a toasting-fork in her hand -- `` Sally , tell mother it was Maggie pushed Lucy into the mud . '' 
Tom 's imagination had not been rapid and capacious enough to include this question among the foreseen consequences , but it was no sooner put than he foresaw whither it tended , and that Maggie would not be considered the only culprit in the case . 
aunt Pullet exclaimed , after preluding by an inarticulate scream ; `` keep her at the door , Sally ! 
`` I do n't know , '' said Tom ; his eagerness for justice on Maggie had diminished since he had seen clearly that it could hardly be brought about without the injustice of some blame on his own conduct . 
It was Mrs Tulliver 's way , if she blamed Tom , to refer his misdemeanour , somehow or other , to Maggie . 
The idea of Maggie sitting alone by the pond , roused an habitual fear in Mrs Tulliver 's mind , and she mounted the horse-block to satisfy herself by a sight of that fatal child , while Tom walked -- not very quickly -- on his way towards her . 
But when she not only failed to discern Maggie , but presently saw Tom returning from the pool alone , this hovering fear entered and took complete possession of her , and she hurried to meet him . 
`` Maggie 's nowhere about the pond , mother , '' said Tom ; `` she 's gone away . '' 
You may conceive the terrified search for Maggie , and the difficulty of convincing her mother that she was not in the pond . 
Mrs Pullet observed that the child might come to a worse end if she lived -- there was no knowing ; and Mr Pullet , confused and overwhelmed by this revolutionary aspect of things -- the tea deferred and the poultry alarmed by the unusual running to and fro -- took up his spud as an instrument of search , and reached down a key to unlock the goose-pen , as a likely place for Maggie to lie concealed in . 
Tom , after a while , started the idea that Maggie was gone home -LRB- without thinking it necessary to state that it was what he should have done himself under the circumstances -RRB- , and the suggestion was seized as a comfort by his mother . 
`` Sister , for goodness ' sake , let 'em put the horse in the carriage and take me home -- we shall perhaps find her on the road . 
What the father would say if Maggie was lost ? 
Maggie 's intentions , as usual , were on a larger scale than Tom had imagined . 
The resolution that gathered in her mind , after Tom and Lucy had walked away , was not so simple as that of going home . 
That was by no means a new idea to Maggie ; she had been so often told she was like a gypsy , and `` half wild , '' that when she was miserable it seemed to her the only way of escaping opprobrium , and being entirely in harmony with circumstances , would be to live in a little brown tent on the commons : the gypsies , she considered , would gladly receive her , and pay her much respect on account of her superior knowledge . 
She had once mentioned her views on this point to Tom , and suggested that he should stain his face brown , and they should run away together ; but Tom rejected the scheme with contempt , observing that gypsies were thieves , and hardly got anything to eat , and had nothing to drive but a donkey . 
To-day , however , Maggie thought her misery had reached a pitch at which gypsydom was her only refuge , and she rose from her seat on the roots of the tree with the sense that this was a great crisis in her life ; she would run straight away till she came to Dunlow Common , where there would certainly be gypsies ; and cruel Tom , and the rest of her relations who found fault with her , should never see her any more . 
She thought of her father as she ran along , but she reconciled herself to the idea of parting with him , by determining that she would secretly send him a letter by a small gypsy , who would run away without telling where she was , and just let him know that she was well and happy , and always loved him very much . 
Maggie soon got out of breath with running , but by the time Tom got to the pond again , she was at the distance of three long fields , and was on the edge of the lane leading to the high-road . 
She stopped to pant a little , reflecting that running away was not a pleasant thing until one had got quite to the common where the gypsies were , but her resolution had not abated : she presently passed through the gate into the lane , not knowing where it would lead her , for it was not this way that they came from Dorlcote Mill to Garum Firs , and she felt all the safer for that , because there was no chance of her being overtaken . 
But she was soon aware , not without trembling , that there were two men coming along the lane in fron of her : she had not thought of meeting strangers -- she had been too much occupied with the idea of her friends coming after her . 
The formidable strangers were two shabby-looking men with flushed faces , one of them carrying a bundle on a stick over his shoulder : but to her surprise , while she was dreading their disapprobation as a runaway , the man with the bundle stopped , and in a half-whining half-coaxing tone asked her if she had a copper to give a poor man . 
Maggie had a sixpence in her pocket -- her uncle Glegg 's present -- which she immediately drew out and gave this poor man with a polite smile , hoping he would feel very kindly towards her as a generous person . 
`` That 's the only money I 've got , '' she said , apologetically . 
`` Thank you , little miss , '' said the man in a less respectful and grateful tone than Maggie anticipated , and she even observed that he smiled and winked at his companion . 
She walked on hurriedly , but was aware that the two men were standing still , probably to look after her , and she presently heard them laughing loudly . 
Suddenly it occurred to her that they might think she was an idiot : Tom had said that her cropped hair made her look like an idiot , and it was too painful an idea to be readily forgotten . 
Besides , she had no sleeves on -- only a cape and a bonnet . 
It was clear that she was not likely to make a favourable impression on passengers , and she thought she would turn into the fields again ; but not on the same side of the lane as before , lest they should still be uncle Pullet 's fields . 
She turned through the first gate that was not locked , and felt a delightful sense of privacy in creeping along by the hedgerows , after her recent humiliating encounter . 
She was used to wandering about the fields by herself , and was less timid there than on the high-road . 
Sometimes she had to climb over high gates , but that was a small evil ; she was getting out of reach very fast , and she should probably soon come within sight of Dunlow Common , or at least of some other common , for she had heard her father say that you could n't go very far without coming to a common . 
She hoped so , for she was getting rather tired and hungry , and until she reached the gypsies there was no definite prospect of bread-and-butter . 
It was still broad daylight , for aunt Pullet , retaining the early habits of the Dodson family , took tea at half-past four by the sun , and at five by the kitchen clock ; so , though it was nearly an hour since Maggie started , there was no gathering gloom on the fields to remind her that the night would come . 
Still , it seemed to her that she had been walking a very great distance indeed , and it was really surprising that the common did not come within sight . 
Hitherto she had been in the rich parish of Garum , where there was a great deal of pasture-land , and she had only seen one labourer at a distance . 
That was fortunate in some respects , as labourers might be too ignorant to understand the propriety of her wanting to go to Dunlow Common ; yet it would have been better if she could have met some one who would tell her the way without wanting to know anything about her private business . 
At last , however , the green fields came to an end , and Maggie found herself looking through the bars of a gate into a lane with a wide margin of grass on each side of it . 
She had never seen such a wide lane before , and , without her knowing why , it gave her the impression that the common could not be far off ; perhaps it was because she saw a donkey with a log to his foot feeding on the grassy margin , for she had seen a donkey with that pitiable encumbrance on Dunlow Common when she had been across it in her father 's gig . 
She crept through the bars of the gate and walked on with new spirit , though not without haunting images of Apollyon , and a highwayman with a pistol , and a blinking dwarf in yellow , with a mouth from ear to ear , and other miscellaneous dangers . 
For poor little Maggie had at once the timidity of an active imagination , and the daring that comes from overmastering impulse . 
She had rushed into the adventure of seeking her unknown kindred , the gypsies ; and now she was in this strange lane , she hardly dared look on one side of her , lest she should see the diabolical blacksmith in his leathern apron , grinning at her with arms akimbo . 
It was not without a leaping of the heart that she caught sight of a small pair of bare legs sticking up , feet uppermost , by the side of a hillock ; they seemed something hideously preternatural -- a diabolical kind of fungus ; for she was too much agitated at the first glance to see the ragged clothes and the dark shaggy head attached to them . 
It was a boy asleep , and Maggie trotted along faster and more lightly , lest she should wake him : it did not occur to her that he was one of her friends the gypsies , who in all probability would have very genial manners . 
But the fact was so , for at the next bend in the lane , Maggie actually saw the little semicircular black tent with the blue smoke rising before it , which was to be her refuge from all the blighting obloquy that had pursued her in civilised life . 
She even saw a tall female figure by the column of smoke -- doubtless the gypsy-mother , who provided the tea and other groceries ; it was astonishing to herself that she did not feel more delighted . 
But it was startling to find the gypsies in a lane , after all , and not on a common ; indeed , it was rather disappointing ; for a mysterious illimitable common , where there were sand-pits to hide in , and one was out of everybody 's reach , had always made part of Maggie 's picture of gypsy life . 
She went on , however , and thought with some comfort that gypsies most likely knew nothing about idiots , so there was no danger of their falling into the mistake of setting her down at the first glance as an idiot . 
It was plain she had attracted attention ; for the tall figure , who proved to be a young woman with a baby on her arm , walked slowly to meet her . 
Maggie looked up in the new face rather tremblingly as it approached , and was reassured by the thought that her aunt Pullet and the rest were right when they called her a gypsy , for this face , with the bright dark eyes and the long hair , was really something like what she used to see in the glass before she cut her hair off . 
It was delightful , and just what Maggie expected : the gypsies saw at once that she was a little lady , and were prepared to treat her accordingly . 
`` Not any farther , '' said Maggie , feeling as if she were saying what she had rehearsed in a dream . 
`` That 's pritty ; come , then , Why , what a nice little lady you are , to be sure , '' said the gypsy , taking her by the hand . 
Maggie thought her very agreeable , but wished she had not been so dirty . 
An old gypsy-woman was seated on the ground nursing her knees , and occasionally poking a skewer into the round kettle that sent forth an odorous steam : two small shock-headed children were lying prone and resting on their elbows something like small sphinxes ; and a placid donkey was bending his head over a tall girl , who , lying on her back , was scratching his nose and indulging him with a bite of excellent stolen hay . 
The slanting sunlight fell kindly upon them , and the scene was really very pretty and comfortable , Maggie thought , only she hoped they would soon set out the tea-cups . 
Everything would be quite charming when she had taught the gypsies to use a washing-basin , and to feel an interest in books . 
It was a little confusing , though , that the young woman began to speak to the old one in a language which Maggie did not understand , while the tall girl , who was feeding the donkey , sat up and stared at her without offering any salutation . 
It was just like a story : Maggie liked to be called pretty lady and treated in this way . 
She sat down and said -- `` I 'm come from home because I 'm unhappy , and I mean to bea gypsy . 
`` Such a clever little lady , '' said the woman with the baby , sitting down by Maggie , and allowing baby to crawl ; `` and such a pritty bonnet and frock , '' she added , taking off Maggie 's bonnet and looking at it while she made an observation to the old woman , in the unknown language . 
The tall girl snatched the bonnet and put it on her own head hind-fore-most most with a grin ; but Maggie was determined not to show any weakness on this subject , as if she were susceptible about her bonnet . 
`` I do n't want to wear a bonnet , '' she said , `` I 'd rather wear a red handkerchief , like yours '' -LRB- looking at her friend by her side -RRB- ; `` my hair was quite long till yesterday , when I cut it off : but I daresay it will grow again very soon , '' she added apologetically , thinking it probable the gypsies had a strong prejudice in favour of long hair . 
And Maggie had forgotten even her hunger at that moment in the desire to conciliate gypsy opinion . 
Maggie 's eyes had begun to sparkle and her cheeks to flush -- she was really beginning to instruct the gypsies , and gaining great influence over them . 
The gypsies themselves were not without amazement at this talk , though their attention was divided by the contents of Maggie 's pocket , which the friend at her right hand had by this time emptied without attracting her notice . 
said Maggie , with some pity ; `` Columbus was a very wonderful man , who found out half the world , and they put chains on him and treated him very badly , you know -- it 's in my Catechism of Geography -- but perhaps it 's rather too long to tell before tea ... I want my tea so . '' 
The last words burst from Maggie , in spite of herself , with a sudden drop from patronising instruction to simple peevishness . 
`` It 's Dorlcote Mill , a good way off , '' said Maggie . 
The tall girl meanwhile was constantly staring at Maggie and grinning . 
Her manners were certainly not agreeable . 
`` No , '' said Maggie , `` I 'm only thinking that if she is n't a very good queen you might be glad when she died , and you could choose another . 
`` Here 's a bit o ' nice victual , then , '' said the old woman , handing to Maggie a lump of dry bread , which she had taken from a bag of scraps , and a piece of cold bacon . 
`` Thank you , '' said Maggie , looking at the food without taking it ; `` but will you give me some bread-and-butter and tea instead ? 
`` O , a little bread and treacle would do , '' said Maggie . 
The old woman , seeming to forget Maggie 's hunger , poked the skewer into the pot with new vigour , and the younger crept under the tent , and reached out some platters and spoons . 
Maggie trembled a little , and was afraid the tears would come into her eyes . 
Meanwhile the tall girl gave a shrill cry , and presently came running up the boy , whom Maggie had passed as he was sleeping -- a rough urchin about the age of Tom . 
He stared at Maggie , and there ensued much incomprehensible chattering . 
She felt very lonely , and was quite sure she should begin to cry before long : the gypsies did n't seem to mind her at all , and she felt quite weak among them . 
The elder of the two carried a bag , which he flung down , addressing the women in a loud and scolding tone , which they answered by a shower of treble sauciness ; while a black cur ran barking up to Maggie , and threw her into a tremor that only found a new cause in the curses with which the younger man called the dog off , and gave him a rap with a great stick he held in his hand . 
Maggie felt that it was impossible she should ever be queen of these people , or ever communicate to them amusing and useful knowledge . 
Both the men now seemed to be inquiring about Maggie , for they looked at her , and the tone of the conversation became of that pacific kind which implies curiosity on one side and the power of satisfying it on the other . 
`` Ay , very glad , '' said the younger man , who was looking at Maggie 's silver thimble and other small matters that had been taken from her pocket . 
He returned them all except the thimble to the younger woman , with some observation , and she immediately restored them to Maggie 's pocket , while the men seated themselves , and began to attack the contents of the kettle -- a stew of meat and potatoes -- which had been taken off the fire and turned out into a yellow platter . 
Maggie began to think that Tom must be right about the gypsies -- they must certainly be thieves , unless the man meant to return her thimble by-and-by . 
She would willingly have given it to him , for she was not at all attached to her thimble ; but the idea that she was among thieves prevented her from feeling any comfort in the revival of deference and attention towards her -- all thieves except Robin Hood were wicked people . 
The women saw she was frightened . 
`` Here , my dear , try if you can eat a bit o ' this , '' said the younger woman , handing some of the stew on a brown dish with an iron spoon to Maggie , who , remembering that the old woman had seemed angry with her for not liking the bread-and-bacon , dared not refuse the stew , though fear had chased away her appetite . 
But Maggie thought with a sinking heart that these heroes were never seen in the neighbourhood of St Ogg 's -- nothing very wonderful ever came there . 
Maggie Tulliver , you perceive , was by no means that well-trained , well-informed young person that a small female of eight or nine necessarily is in these days : she had only been to school a year at St Ogg 's , and had so few books that she sometimes read the dictionary ; so that in travelling over her small mind you would have found the most unexpected ignorance as well as unexpected knowledge . 
you do n't like the smell of it , my dear , '' said the young woman , observing that Maggie did not even take a spoonful of the stew . 
`` No , thank you , '' said Maggie , summoning all her force for a desperate effort , and trying to smile in a friendly way . 
Maggie rose from her seat as she threw out this illusory prospect , devoutly hoping that Apollyon was gullible ; but her hope sank when the old gypsy-woman said , `` Stop a bit , stop a bit , little lady -- we 'll take you home , all safe , when we 've done supper : you shall ride home , like a lady . '' 
Maggie sat down again , with little faith in this promise , though she presently saw the tall girl putting a bridle on the donkey , and throwing a couple of bags on his back . 
`` Dorlcote Mill is my home , '' said Maggie eagerly . 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie . 
He lifted Maggie as he spoke , and set her on the donkey . 
She felt relieved that it was not the old man who seemed to be going with her , but she had only a trembling hope that she was really going home . 
`` Here 's your pretty bonnet , '' said the younger woman , putting that recently despised but now welcome-article of costume on Maggie 's head ; `` and you 'll say we 've been very good to you , wo n't you ? 
`` O , yes , thank you , '' said Maggie , `` I 'm very much obliged to you . 
She thought anything was better than going with one of the dreadful men alone : it would be more cheerful to be murdered by a larger party . 
It now appeared that the man also was to be seated on the donkey , holding Maggie before him , and she was as incapable of remonstrating against this arrangement as the donkey himself , though no nightmare had ever seemed to her more horrible . 
When the woman had patted her on the back , and said , `` good-by , '' the donkey , at a strong hint from the man 's stick , set off at a rapid walk along the lane towards the point Maggie had come from an hour ago , while the tall girl and the rough urchin , also furnished with sticks , obligingly escorted them for the first hundred yards , with much screaming and thwacking . 
Not Leonore , in that preternatural midnight excursion with her phantom lover , was more terrified than poor Maggie in this entirely natural ride on a short-paced donkey , with a gypsy behind her , who considered that he was earning half-a-crown . 
This idea became stronger as she felt more and more certain that she knew the road quite well , and she was considering how she might open a conversation with the injured gypsy , and not only gratify his feelings but efface the impression of her cowardice , when , as they reached a cross-road , Maggie caught sight of some one coming on a white-faced horse . 
she cried out . 
The sudden joy was almost painful , and before her father reached her , she was sobbing . 
he said , checking his horse , while Maggie slipped from the donkey and ran to her father 's stirrup . 
`` O , yes , father , he 's been very good to bring me home , '' said Maggie . 
`` Why , Maggie , how 's this , how 's this ? '' 
he said , as they rode along , while she laid her head against her father , and sobbed . 
`` O , father , '' sobbed Maggie , `` I ran away because I was so unhappy -- Tom was so angry with me . 
Mr Tulliver spoke his mind very strongly when he reached home that evening , and the effect was seen in the remarkable fact , that Maggie never heard one reproach from her mother , or one taunt from Tom , about this foolish business of her running away to the gypsies . 
Maggie was rather awestricken by this unusual treatment , and sometimes thought that her conduct had been too wicked to be alluded to . 
Mrs Glegg heard a circumstantial narrative , to which Mr Pullet 's remarkable memory furnished some items ; and while aunt Pullet pitied poor Bessy 's bad-luck with her children , and expressed a half-formed project of paying for Maggie 's being sent to a distant boarding-school , which would not prevent her being so brown , but might tend to subdue some other vices in her , aunt Glegg blamed Bessy for her weakness , and appealed to all witnesses who should be living when the Tulliver children had turned out ill , that she , Mrs Glegg , had always said how it would be from the very first , observing that it was wonderful to herself how all her words came true . 
Mrs Glegg did not alter her will in consequence of this letter , and cut off the Tulliver children from their sixth and seventh share in her thousand pounds ; for she had her principles . 
No one must be able to say of her when she was dead that she had not divided her money with perfect fairness among her own kin : in the matter of wills , personal qualities were subordinate to the great fundamental fact of blood ; and to be determined in the distribution of your property by caprice , and not make your legacies bear a direct ratio to degrees of kinship , was a prospective disgrace that would have embittered her life . 
That evening Tom observed to Maggie , `` O my ! 
Maggie , aunt Glegg 's beginning to come again ; I 'm glad I 'm going to school . 
Maggie was already so full of sorrow at the thought of Tom 's going away from her , that this playful exultation of his seemed very unkind , and she cried herself to sleep that night . 
Thus poor Tom , though he saw very clearly through Maggie 's illusions , was not without illusions of his own , which were to be cruelly dissipated by his enlarged experience at King 's Lorton . 
`` They must be very well off , though , '' said Mrs Tulliver , `` for everything 's as nice as can be all over the house , and that watered-silk she had on cost a pretty penny . 
But one day when he had broken down , for the fifth time in the supines of the third conjugation , and Mr Stelling , convinced that this must be carelessness , since it transcended the bounds of possible stupidity , had lectured him very seriously , pointing out that if he failed to seize the present golden opportunity of learning supines , he would have to regret it when he became a man , -- Tom , more miserable than usual , determined to try his sole resource ; and that evening , after his usual form of prayer for his parents and `` little sister '' -LRB- he had begun to pray for Maggie when she was a baby -RRB- , and that he might be able always to keep God 's commandments , he added , in the same low whisper , `` and please to make me always remember my Latin . '' 
In his secret heart he yearned to have Maggie with him , and was almost ready to doat on her exasperating acts of forgetfulness ; though , when he was at home , he always represented it as a great favour on his part to let Maggie trot by his side on his pleasure excursions . 
And before this dreary half-year was ended , Maggie actually came . 
Mrs Stelling had given a general invitation for the little girl to come and stay with her brother ; so when Mr Tulliver drove over to King 's Lorton late in October , Maggie came too , with the sense that she was taking a great journey , and beginning to see the world . 
`` Well , my lad , '' he said to Tom , when Mr Stelling had left the room to announce the arrival to his wife , and Maggie had begun to kiss Tom freely , `` you look rarely ! 
`` I 'll help you now , Tom , '' said Maggie , with a little air of patronising consolation . 
said Tom , in such high spirits at this announcement that he quite enjoyed the idea of confounding Maggie by showing her a page of Euclid . 
`` I know what Latin is very well , '' said Maggie , confidently . 
`` Well , that 's no reason why it should n't mean ` gift , ''' said Maggie , stoutly . 
`` Well done , little ` un , '' said Mr Tulliver , laughing , while Tom felt rather disgusted with Maggie 's knowingness , though beyond measure cheerful at the thought that she was going to stay with him . 
Her conceit would soon be overawed by the actual inspection of his books . 
Mrs Stelling , in her pressing invitation , did not mention a longer time than a week for Maggie 's stay ; but Mr Stelling , who took her between his knees , and asked her where she stole her dark eyes from , insisted that she must stay a fortnight . 
Maggie thought Mr Stelling was a charming man , and Mr Tulliver was quite proud to leave his little wench where she would have an opportunity of showing her cleverness to appreciating strangers . 
So it was agreed that she should not be fetched home till the end of the fortnight . 
`` Now , then , come with me into the study , Maggie , '' said Tom , as their father drove away . 
he continued ; for though her hair was now under a new dispensation , and was brushed smoothly behind her ears , she seemed still in imagination to be tossing it out of her eyes . 
`` O , I ca n't help it , '' said Maggie , impatiently . 
she exclaimed , as she saw the bookcases in the study . 
`` No , they are n't , '' said Maggie . 
`` But I could soon find out , '' said Maggie , scornfully . 
`` You 'd better not , Miss Maggie , '' said Tom , seeing her hand on the volume . 
Let me see all your books , then , '' said Maggie , turning to throw her arms round Tom 's neck , and rub his cheek with her small round nose . 
Tom , in the gladness of his heart at having dear old Maggie to dispute with and crow over again , seized her round the waist , and began to jump with her round the large library table . 
Away they jumped with more and more vigour , till Maggie 's hair flew from behind her ears , and twirled about like an animated mop . 
`` O , I say , Maggie , '' said Tom at last , lifting up the stand , `` we must keep quiet here , you know . 
said Maggie . 
said Maggie . 
`` I think all women are crosser than men , '' said Maggie . 
`` But I shall be a clever woman , '' said Maggie , with a toss . 
what I 've got to do , '' said Tom , drawing Maggie towards him and showing her his theorem , while she pushed her hair behind her ears , and prepared herself to prove her capability of helping him in Euclid . 
She began to read with full confidence in her own powers , but presently , becoming quite bewildered , her face flushed with irritation . 
It was unavoidable -- she must confess her incompetency , and she was not fond of humiliation . 
she said , `` and very ugly stuff -- nobody need want to make it out . '' 
said Tom , drawing the book away , and wagging his head at her , `` you see you 're not so clever as you thought you were . '' 
`` O , '' said Maggie , pouting , `` I daresay I could make it out , if I 'd learned what goes before , as you have . '' 
Maggie found the Latin Grammar quite soothing after her mathematical mortification ; for she delighted in new words , and quickly found that there was an English Key at the end , which would make her very wise about Latin , at slight expense . 
She presently made up her mind to skip the rules in the Syntax -- the examples became so absorbing . 
These mysterious sentences , snatched from an unknown context , -- like strange horns of beasts , and leaves of unknown plants , brought from some far-off region , -- gave boundless scope to her imagination , and were all the more fascinating because they were in a peculiar tongue of their own , which she could learn to interpret . 
It was really very interesting -- the Latin Grammar that Tom had said no girls could learn : and she was proud because she found it interesting . 
The most fragmentary examples were her favourites . 
Mors omnibus est communis would have been jejune , only she liked to know the Latin ; but the fortunate gentleman whom every one congratulated because he had a son `` endowed with such a disposition '' afforded her a great deal of pleasant conjecture , and she was quite lost in the `` thick grove penetrable by no star , '' when Tom called out , `` Now , then , Magsie , give us the Grammar ! '' 
she said , as she jumped out of the large arm-chair to give it him ; `` it 's much prettier than the Dictionary . 
Maggie , rather piqued , turned to the bookcases to amuse herself with puzzling out the titles . 
Presently Tom called to her : `` Here , Magsie , come and hear if I can say this . 
Maggie obeyed and took the open book . 
Tom sailed along pretty well for three lines ; and Maggie was beginning to forget her office of prompter , in speculating as to what mas could mean , which came twice over , when he stuck fast at Sunt etiam volucrum . 
`` Do n't tell me , Maggie ; Sunt etiam volucrum ... Sunt etiam volucrum ... ut ostrea , cetus ... '' `` No , '' said Maggie , opening her mouth and shaking her head . 
`` C , e , u , '' said Maggie , getting impatient . 
`` Ceu passer , hirundo ; Ferarum ... ferarum ... `` Tom took his pencil and made several hard dots with it on his book-cover ... '' ferarum ... '' `` O dear , O dear , Tom , '' said Maggie , `` what a time you are ! 
no , '' said Maggie , `` ut , tigris ... '' `` O yes , now I can do , '' said Tom ; `` it was tigris , vulpes , I 'd forgotten : ut tigris , vulpes ; et Piscium . '' 
`` No , Tom , '' said Maggie , `` that does n't come next . 
What a little silly you are , Maggie ! '' 
`` Very well , then , '' said Maggie , pouting . 
They were presently fetched to spend the rest of the evening in the drawing-room , and Maggie became so animated with Mr Stelling , who , she felt sure , admired her cleverness , that Tom was rather amazed and alarmed at her audacity . 
But she was suddenly subdued by Mr Stelling 's alluding to a little girl of whom he had heard that she once ran away to the gypsies . 
said Mrs Stelling , meaning to be playful -- but a playfulness that turned on her supposed oddity was not at all to Maggie 's taste . 
She feared Mr Stelling , after all , did not think much of her , and went to bed in rather low spirits . 
Nevertheless it was a very happy fortnight to Maggie , this visit to Tom . 
She was allowed to be in the study while he had his lessons , and in her various readings got very deep into the examples in the Latin Grammar . 
The astronomer who hated women generally , caused her so much puzzling speculation that she one day asked Mr Stelling if all astronomers hated women , or whether it was only this particular astronomer . 
But , forestalling his answer , she said , `` I suppose it 's all astronomers : because , you know , they live up in high towers , and if the women came there , they might talk and hinder them from looking at the stars . '' 
Mr Stelling liked her prattle immensely , and they were on the best terms . 
She told Tom she should like to go to school to Mr Stelling , as he did , and learn just the same things . 
She knew she could do Euclid , for she had looked into it again , and she saw what A B C meant : they were the names of the lines . 
`` Mr Stelling , '' she said , that same evening when they were in the drawing-room , `` could n't I do Euclid , and all Tom 's lessons , if you were to teach me instead of him ? '' 
Tom , delighted with this verdict , telegraphed his triumph by wagging his head at Maggie behind Mr Stelling 's chair . 
As for Maggie , she had hardly ever been so mortified . 
She had been so proud to be called `` quick '' all her little life , and now it appeared that this quickness was the brand of inferiority . 
And Maggie was so oppressed by this dreadful destiny that she had no spirit for a retort . 
But when this small apparatus of shallow quickness was fetched away in the gig by Luke , and the study was once more quite lonely for Tom , he missed her grievously . 
He had really been brighter , and had got through his lessons better , since she had been there ; and she had asked Mr Stelling so many questions about the Roman empire , and whether there really ever was a man who said , in Latin , `` I would not buy it for a farthing or a rotten nut , '' or whether that had only been turned into Latin , that Tom had actually come to a dim understanding of the fact that there had once been people upon the earth who were so fortunate as to know Latin without learning it through the medium of the Eton Grammar . 
The red berries were just as abundant on the holly , and he and Maggie had dressed all the windows and mantelpieces and picture-frames on Christmas eve with as much taste as ever , wedding the thick-set scarlet clusters with branches of the black-berried ivy . 
There had been singing under the windows after midnight -- supernatural singing , Maggie always felt , in spite of Tom 's contemptuous insistence that the singers were old Patch , the parish clerk , and the rest of the church choir : she trembled with awe when their caroling broke in upon her dreams , and the image of men in fustian clothes was always thrust away by the vision of angels resting on the parted cloud . 
He was irate and defiant , and Tom , though he espoused his father 's quarrels and shared his father 's sense of injury , was not without some of the feeling that oppressed Maggie when Mr Tulliver got louder and more angry in narration and assertion with the increased leisure of dessert . 
My sister Maggie is always wanting to tell me stories -- but they 're stupid things . 
That night he fell asleep in the thought that he would astonish Maggie with it when she came -- tie it round his waist with his red comforter , and make her believe that the sword was his own , and that he was going to be a soldier . 
There was nobody but Maggie who would be silly enough to believe him , or whom he dared allow to know that he had a sword ; and Maggie was really coming next week to see Tom , before she went to a boarding-school with Lucy . 
When Maggie came , however , she could not help looking with growing interest at the new schoolfellow , although he was the son of that wicked Lawyer Wakem , who made her father so angry . 
She had arrived in the middle of school-hours , and had sat by while Philip went through his lessons with Mr Stelling . 
Tom , some weeks ago , had sent her word that Philip knew no end of stories -- not stupid stories like hers ; and she was convinced now from her own observation that he must be very clever : she hoped he would think her rather clever too , when she came to talk to him . 
Maggie , more-over , had rather a tenderness for deformed things ; she preferred the wry-necked lambs , because it seemed to her that the lambs which were quite strong and well made would n't mind so much about being petted ; and she was especially fond of petting objects that would think it very delightful to be petted by her . 
She loved Tom very dearly , but she often wished that he cared more about her loving him . 
`` I think Philip Wakem seems a nice boy , Tom , '' she said , when they went out of the study together into the garden , to pass the interval before dinner . 
said Maggie , who , in this first day of meeting again , loved Tom 's shadow . 
In the afternoon the boys were at their books in the study , preparing the morrow 's lessons , that they might have a holiday in the evening in honour of Maggie 's arrival . 
Tom was hanging over his Latin grammar , moving his lips inaudibly like a strict but impatient Catholic repeating his tale of paternosters ; and Philip , at the other end of the room , was busy with two volumes , with a look of contented diligence that excited Maggie 's curiosity ; he did not look at all as if he were learning a lesson . 
She sat on a low stool at nearly a right angle with the two boys , watching first one and then the other ; and Philip , looking off his book once towards the fireplace , caught the pair of questioning dark eyes fixed upon him . 
He thought this sister of Tulliver 's seemed a nice little thing , quite unlike her brother ; he wished he had a little sister . 
What was it , he wondered , that made Maggie 's dark eyes remind him of the stories about princesses being turned into animals ? 
... I think it was that her eyes were full of unsatisfied intelligence , and unsatisfied , beseeching affection . 
said Maggie , when they were outside the door , a slight suspicion crossing her mind as she remembered Tom 's preliminary visit up-stairs . 
`` No , no , Maggie , '' said Tom , in his most coaxing tone ; `` it 's something you 'll like ever so . '' 
He put his arm round her neck , and she put hers round his waist , and , twined together in this way , they went up-stairs . 
said Maggie , whose imagination had settled for the moment on the idea that Tom kept a ferret clandestinely . 
`` O , but if you frighten me , I shall , '' said Maggie , beginning to look rather serious . 
`` Of course I sha n't peep , '' said Maggie , disdainfully ; and she buried her face in the pillow like a person of strict honour . 
Maggie kept her face buried without the aid of principle , for in that dream-suggestive attitude she had soon forgotten where she was , and her thoughts were busy with the poor deformed boy , who was so clever , when Tom called out , `` Now then , Magsie ! '' 
Nothing but long meditation and preconcerted arrangement of effects could have enabled Tom to present so striking a figure as he did to Maggie when she looked up . 
Maggie looked bewildered for a moment , and Tom enjoyed that moment keenly ; but in the next , she laughed , clapped her hands together , and said , `` O Tom ; you 've made yourself like Bluebeard at the show . '' 
It was clear she had not been struck with the presence of the sword -- it was not unsheathed . 
Her frivolous mind required a more direct appeal to its sense of terrible , and Tom prepared for his master-stroke . 
Frowning with a double amount of intention , if not of corrugation , he -LRB- carefully -RRB- drew the sword from its sheath and pointed it at Maggie . 
`` O Tom , please do n't , '' exclaimed Maggie , in a tone of suppressed dread , shrinking away from him into the opposite corner , `` I shall scream -- I 'm sure I shall ! 
stamping forward with the right leg a little bent , and the sword still pointing towards Maggie , who , trembling , and with tear-filled eyes , got upon the bed , as the only means of widening the space between them . 
Tom , happy in this spectator of his military performances , even though the spectator was only Maggie , proceeded , with the utmost exertion of his force , to such an exhibition of the cut and thrust as would necessarily be expected of the Duke of Wellington . 
`` Tom , I will not bear it -- I will scream , '' said Maggie , at the first movement of the sword . 
`` There , '' came more slowly , and with it the sword swung downwards , and Maggie gave a loud shriek . 
Maggie leaped from the bed , still shrieking , and immediately there was a rush of footsteps towards the room . 
Tom had fainted , and Maggie was shaking him by the collar of his jacket , screaming , with wild eyes . 
She thought he was dead , poor child ! 
and yet she shook him , as if that would bring him back to life . 
In another minute she was sobbing with joy because Tom had opened his eyes : she could n't sorrow yet that he had hurt his foot -- it seemed as if all happiness lay in his being alive . 
Poor Tom bore his severe pain heroically , and was resolute in not `` telling '' of Mr Poulter more than was unavoidable : the five-shilling piece remained a secret even to Maggie . 
He mastered himself so as not to cry out at the pain , but when his foot had been dressed , and he was left alone with Maggie seated by his bedside , the children sobbed together with their heads laid on the same pillow . 
Tom was thinking of himself walking about on crutches , like the wheelwright 's son ; and Maggie , who did not guess what was in his mind , sobbed for company . 
As for Maggie , this intimation of a possibility she had not thought of before , affected her as a new trouble ; the bare idea of Tom 's being always lame overpowered the assurance that such a misfortune was not likely to befall him , and she clung to him and cried afresh . 
After that , Philip spent all his time out of school-hours with Tom and Maggie . 
But Maggie would have it that when anything hurt you very much , it was quite permissible to cry out , and it was cruel of people not to bear it . 
She wanted to know if Philoctetes had a sister , and why she did n't go with him on the desert island and take care of him . 
One day , soon after Philip had told this story , he and Maggie were in the study alone together while Tom 's foot was being dressed . 
Philip was at his books , and Maggie , after sauntering idly round the room , not caring to do anything in particular , because she would soon go to Tom again , went and leaned on the table near Philip to see what he was doing , for they were quite old friends now , and perfectly at home with each other . 
she said . 
`` It 's about Philoctetes -- the lame man I was telling you of yesterday , '' he answered , resting his head on his hand and looking at her , as if he were not at all sorry to be interrupted . 
Maggie , in her absent way , continued to lean forward , resting on her arms and moving her feet about , while her dark eyes got more and more fixed and vacant , as if she had quite forgotten Philip and his book . 
`` Maggie , '' said Philip , after a minute or two , still leaning on his elbow and looking at her , `` if you had had a brother like me , do you think you should have loved him as well as Tom ? '' 
Maggie started a little on being roused from her reverie , and said , `` What ? '' 
`` O yes , better , '' she answered , immediately . 
Philip coloured : he had meant to imply , would she love him as well in spite of his deformity , and yet when she alluded to it so plainly , he winced under her pity . 
Maggie , young as she was , felt her mistake . 
Hitherto she had instinctively behaved as if she were quite unconscious of Philip 's deformity : her own keen sensitiveness and experience under family criticism sufficed to teach her this , as well as if she had been directed by the most finished breeding . 
`` But you are so very clever , Philip , and you can play and sing , '' she added , quickly . 
`` But you 'll go away soon , and go to school , Maggie , '' said Philip , `` and then you 'll forget all about me , and not care for me any more . 
`` O no , I sha n't forget you , I 'm sure , '' said Maggie , shaking her head very seriously . 
`` Do you care as much about me as you do about Yap , Maggie ? '' 
`` O yes , I should think so , '' said Maggie , laughing . 
`` I 'm very fond of you , Maggie ; I shall never forget you , '' said Philip , `` and when I 'm very unhappy , I shall always think of you , and wish I had a sister with dark eyes , just like yours . '' 
said Maggie , well pleased . 
She had never heard any one but her father speak of her eyes as if they had merit . 
I do n't like other people to look at me much , but I like you to look at me , Maggie . '' 
`` Why , I think you 're fonder of me than Tom is , '' said Maggie , rather sorrowfully . 
Then , wondering how she could convince Philip that she could like him just as well , although he was crooked , she said , `` Should you like me to kiss you , as I do Tom ? 
Maggie put her arm round his neck and kissed him quite earnestly . 
`` There now , '' she said , `` I shall always remember you , and kiss you when I see you again , if it 's ever so long . 
When their father came the second time , Maggie said to him , `` O father , Philip Wakem is so very good to Tom -- he is such a clever boy , and I do love him . 
Say you love him , '' she added , entreatingly . 
When Maggie was gone , and when Tom by-and-by began to walk about as usual , the friendly warmth that had been kindled by pity and gratitude died out by degrees , and left them in their old relation to each other . 
So Tom went on even to the fifth half-year -- till he was turned sixteen -- at King 's Lorton , while Maggie was growing , with a rapidity which her aunts considered highly reprehensible , at Miss Firniss 's boarding-school in the ancient town of Laceham on the Floss , with cousin Lucy for her companion . 
But when their father was actually engaged in the long-threatened lawsuit , and Wakem , as the agent at once of Pivart and Old Harry , was acting against him , even Maggie felt , with some sadness , that they were not likely ever to have any intimacy with Philip again : the very name of Wakem made her father angry , and she had once heard him say , that if that crookbacked son lived to inherit his father 's ill-gotten gains , there would be a curse upon him . 
Maggie , too , was tall now , with braided and coilded hair : she was almost as tall as Tom , though she was only thirteen ; and she really looked older than he did at that moment . 
She had thrown off her bonnet , her heavy braids were pushed back from her forehead , as if it would not bear that extra load , and her young face had a strangely worn look , as her eyes turned anxiously towards the door . 
When Tom entered she did not speak , but only went up to him , put her arms round his neck , and kissed him earnestly . 
He was used to various moods of hers , and felt no alarm at the unusual seriousness of her greeting . 
`` Why , how is it you 're come so early this cold morning , Maggie ? 
said Tom , as she backed towards the sofa , and drew him to her side . 
`` Father wanted me at home , '' said Maggie , with a slight trembling of the lip . 
`` Not quite , '' said Maggie . 
said Tom , hastily , springing from the sofa , and standing before Maggie with his hands suddenly thrust in his pockets . 
`` Yes , dear Tom , '' said Maggie , looking up at him with trembling . 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie , rather faintly . 
he added , looking at Maggie , and thinking that her agitated face was only part of her girlish way of taking things . 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie , again faintly . 
Then , urged to fuller speech by Tom 's freedom from apprehension , she said loudly and rapidly , as if the words would burst from her , `` O Tom , he will lose the mill and the land , and everything ; he will have nothing left . '' 
Tom 's eyes flashed out one look of surprise at her , before he turned pale and trembled visibly . 
Maggie was frightened at Tom 's pale , trembling silence . 
She threw her arms round him at last , and said , with a half sob -- `` O Tom -- dear , dear Tom , do n't fret too much -- try and bear it well . '' 
Tom turned his cheek passively to meet her entreating kisses , and there gathered a moisture in his eyes , which he just rubbed away with his hand . 
The action seemed to rouse him , for he shook himself and said , `` I shall go home with you , Maggie . 
`` No , Tom , father did n't wish it , '' said Maggie , her anxiety about his feeling helping her to master her agitation . 
What would he do when she told him all ? 
Maggie 's lips grew whiter , and she began to tremble almost as Tom had done . 
When Maggie spoke , it was hardly above a whisper . 
`` And ... and ... poor father ... '' Maggie could not utter it . 
`` Tell me , Maggie . '' 
`` He 's at home , '' said Maggie , finding it easier to reply to that question . 
`` But , '' she added , after a pause , `` not himself . 
... O , father , father ... '' With these last words , Maggie 's sobs burst forth with the more violence for the previous struggle against them . 
Tom felt that pressure of the heart which forbids tears : he had no distinct vision of their troubles as Maggie had , who had been at home : he only felt the crushing weight of what seemed unmitigated misfortune . 
He tightened his arm almost convulsively round Maggie as she sobbed , but his face looked rigid and tearless -- his eyes blank -- as if a black curtain of cloud had suddenly fallen on his path . 
But Maggie soon checked herself abruptly : a single thought had acted on her like a startling sound . 
She said this with hasty decision , rubbing her eyes , and rising to seize her bonnet . 
`` Wait a minute , Maggie , '' he said , `` I must speak to Mr Stelling , and then we 'll go . '' 
He thought he must go to the study where the pupils were , but on his way he met Mr Stelling , who had heard from his wife that Maggie appeared to be in trouble when she asked for her brother ; and , now that he thought the brother and sister had been alone long enough , was coming to inquire and offer his sympathy . 
When he knew how Maggie had come , and how eager she was to get home again , he hurried their departure , only whispering something to Mrs Stelling , who had followed him , and who immediately left the room . 
Tom and Maggie were standing on the door-step , ready to set out , when Mrs Stelling came with a little basket , which she hung on Maggie 's arms , saying , `` Do remember to eat something on the way , dear . '' 
Maggie 's heart went out towards this woman whom she had never liked , and she kissed her silently . 
Then he pressed Maggie 's hand ; but there were no audible good-bys . 
But what was it that suggested to him , as he saw the Laceham coach entering the town , to follow it to the coach-office , and get the clerk there to write a letter , requiring Maggie to come home the very next day ? 
There was a craving which he would not account for to himself , to have Maggie near him -- without delay -- she must come back by the coach to-morrow . 
When Maggie reached home that evening , in obedience to her father 's call , he was no longer insensible . 
Maggie said , with pale lips , as her mother came towards her crying . 
She did n't think her father was ill , because the letter had come at his dictation from the office at St Ogg 's . 
But Mr Turnbull came now to meet her : a medical man is the good angel of the troubled house , and Maggie ran towards the kind old friend , whom she remembered as long as she could remember anything , with a trembling , questioning look . 
`` Do n't alarm yourself too much , my dear , '' he said , taking her hand . 
Maggie obeyed , with that terrible beating of the heart which makes existence seem simply a painful pulsation . 
The very quietness with which Mr Turnbull spoke had frightened her susceptible imagination . 
Her father 's eyes were still turned uneasily towards the door when she entered and met the strange , yearning , helpless look that had been seeking her in vain . 
With a sudden flash and movement , he raised himself in the bed -- she rushed towards him , and clasped him with agonised kisses . 
it was very early for her to know one of those supreme moments in life when all we have hoped or delighted in , all we can dread or endure , falls away from our regard as insignificant -- is lost , like a trivial memory , in that simple , primitive love which knits us to the beings who have been nearest to us , in their times of helplessness or of anguish . 
He sank back again in renewed insensibility and rigidity , which lasted for many hours , and was only broken by a flickering return of consciousness , in which he took passively everything that was given to him , and seemed to have a sort of infantine satisfaction in Maggie 's near presence -- such satisfaction as a baby has when it is returned to the nurse 's lap . 
But Maggie heard little of this , scarcely ever leaving her father 's bedside , where she sat opposite him with her hand on his . 
But at the end of the second day , when Maggie had become more accustomed to her father 's fits of insensibility , and to the expectation that he would revive from them , the thought of Tom had become urgent with her too ; and when her mother sate crying at night and saying , `` My poor lad ... it 's nothing but right he should come home ; '' Maggie said , `` Let me go for him , and tell him , mother : I 'll go to-morrow morning if father does n't know me and want me . 
And the next morning Maggie went , as we have seen . 
`` They say Mr Wakem has got a mortgage or something on the land , Tom , '' said Maggie . 
said Maggie , in a tone of sad remonstrance ; but she had no spirit to dispute anything then , still less to vex Tom by opposing him . 
When the coach set down Tom and Maggie , it was five hours since she had started from home , and she was thinking with some trembling that her father had perhaps missed her , and asked for `` the little wench '' in vain . 
She thought of no other change that might have happened . 
She hurried along the gravel-walk and entered the house before Tom ; but in the entrance she was startled by a strong smell of tobacco . 
Was her mother there ? 
If so , she must be told that Tom was come . 
Maggie , after this pause of surprise , was only in the act of opening the door when Tom came up , and they both looked in the parlour together . 
Maggie had not understood the appearance of this stranger , as Tom had . 
She followed him , whispering `` Who can it be , Tom ? 
Then , with a sudden undefined dread lest this stranger might have something to do with a change in her father , she rushed up-stairs , checking herself at the bedroom door to throw off her bonnet , and enter on tiptoe . 
All was silent there : her father was lying , heedless of everything around him , with his eyes closed as when she had left him . 
A servant was there , but not her mother . 
she whispered . 
Maggie hastened out , and said to Tom , `` Father is lying quiet : let us go and look for my mother . 
There was but one room below the attic which Maggie had left unsearoled : it was the store-room , where her mother kept all her linen and all the precious `` best things '' that were only unwrapped and brought out on special occasions . 
Tom , preceding Maggie as they returned along the passage , opened the door of this room , and immediately said , `` Mother ! '' 
Maggie could have had the large check -- it never shows so well when the dishes are on it . '' 
Maggie had witnessed this scene with gathering anger . 
The implied reproaches against her father -- her father , who was lying there in a sort of living death -- neutralised all her pity for griefs about table-cloths and china ; and her anger on her father 's account was heightened by some egoistic resentment at Tom 's silent concurrence with her mother in shutting her out from the common calamity . 
She had become almost indifferent to her mother 's habitual depreciation of her , but she was keenly alive to any sanction of it , however passive , that she might suspect in Tom . 
Poor Maggie was by no means made up of unalloyed devotedness , but put forth large claims for herself where she loved strongly . 
She burst out at last in an agitated , almost violent tone , `` Mother , how can you talk so ? 
Maggie , almost choked with mingled grief and anger , left the room , and took her old place on her father 's bed . 
Her heart went out to him with a stronger movement than ever , at the thought that people would blame him . 
Maggie hated blame : she had been blamed all her life , and nothing had come of it but evil tempers . 
Her father had always defended and excused her , and her loving remembrance of his tenderness was a force within her that would enable her to do or bear anything for his sake . 
Tom was a little shocked at Maggie 's outburst -- telling him as well as his mother what it was right to do ! 
When Maggie saw how he was moved , she went to him and put her arm round his neck as he sat by the bed , and the two children forgot everything else in the sense that they had one father and one sorrow . 
I wonder Maggie did n't , though , for she was allays so fond of her aunt Moss . '' 
said Mrs Pullet , at the mention of Maggie . 
`` They should hear what their aunts and uncles have got to say : and Maggie -- when it 's me as have paid for half her schooling , she ought to think more of her aunt Pullet nor of aunt Mosses . 
She went up-stairs to fetch Tom and Maggie , who were both in their father 's room , and was on her way down again , when the sight of the store-room door suggested a new thought to her . 
She went towards it , and left the children to go down by themselves . 
As for Maggie , she was peculiarly depressed this morning : she had been called up , after brief rest , at three o'clock , and had that strange dreamy weariness which comes from watching in a sick-room through the chill hours of early twilight and breaking day -- in which the outside daylight life seems to have no importance , and to be a mere margin to the hours in the darkened chamber . 
And his sister , too , '' continued Mrs Glegg , looking severely at Maggie , who had sat down on the sofa by her aunt Deane , drawn to her by the sense that she was Lucy 's mother , `` she must make up her mind to be humble and work ; for there 'll be no servants to wait on her any more -- she must remember that . 
Maggie had started up from the sofa at the allusion to her father , but Tom saw her action and flushed face in time to prevent her from speaking . 
`` Be quiet , Maggie , '' he said , authoritatively , pushing her aside . 
And if you and my aunt Pullet , '' he continued , looking at the latter , `` think of leaving any money to me and Maggie , would n't it be better to give it now , and pay the debt we 're going to be sold up for , and save my mother from parting with her furniture ? '' 
There was silence for a few moments , for every one , including Maggie , was astonished at Tom 's sudden manliness of tone . 
Maggie , on the contrary , after her momentary delight in Tom 's speech , had relapsed into her state of trembling indignation . 
Her mother had been standing close by Tom 's side , and had been clinging to his arm ever since he had last spoken : Maggie suddenly started up and stood in front of them , her eyes flashing like the eyes of a young lioness . 
`` Why do you come , then , '' she burst out , `` talking , and interfering with us and scolding us , if you do n't mean to do anything to help my poor mother -- your own sister -- if you 've no feeling for her when she 's in trouble , and wo n't part with anything , though you would never miss it , to save her from pain ? 
Maggie , having hurled her defiance at aunts and uncles in this way , stood still , with her large dark eyes glaring at them , as if she were ready to await all consequences . 
`` The bad news must ha ' reached her , then ; '' and she went out to open the door , Maggie eagerly following her . 
Maggie was clinging to her arm ; and Mrs Moss seemed to notice no one else except Tom , whom she went straight up to and took by the hand . 
`` Mr Turnbull thinks he 'll get better , '' said Maggie . 
`` O my sweet child , I feel torn i ' two , '' said Mrs Moss , allowing Maggie to lead her to the sofa , but still not seeming to notice the presence of the rest . 
... '' `` Do n't cry so , aunt -- do n't fret , '' whispered Maggie , who had kept hold of Mrs Moss 's hand . 
Poor Mrs Moss herself listened in trembling submission , while Maggie looked with bewildered distress at Tom to see if he showed any signs of understanding this trouble , and caring about poor aunt Moss . 
`` He said something to me about Maggie , and then he said , ` I 've always been good to my sister , though she married against my will -- and I 've lent Moss money ; but I shall never think of distressing him to pay it : I 'd rather lose it . 
Maggie would hardly have restrained herself from leaping on Tom 's neck , if her aunt Moss had not prevented her by herself rising and taking Tom 's hand , while she said , with rather a choked voice -- `` You 'll never be the poorer for this , my dear boy , if there 's a God above ; and if the money 's wanted for your father , Moss and me ` ull pay it , the same as if there was ever such security . 
Let us go too , aunt Gritty , '' whispered Maggie . 
He had lain so still , with his eyes closed , all this morning , that Maggie told her aunt Moss she must not expect her father to take any notice of them . 
They entered very quietly , and Mrs Moss took her seat near the head of the bed , while Maggie sat in her old place on the bed , and put her hand on her father 's , without causing any change in his face . 
Mr Tulliver looked round him meditatively -- at Tom , at Mr Glegg , and at Maggie ; then suddenly appearing aware that some one was seated by his side at the head of the bed , he turned sharply round and saw his sister . 
He looked up at Maggie first , and said in a lower tone , `` You got the letter , then , my wench ? '' 
and his eyes turned towards Tom as Maggie left the room . 
At this moment Maggie re-entered with her mother , who came in much agitated by the news that her husband was quite himself again . 
`` Well , Bessy , '' he said , as she kissed him , `` you must forgive me if you 're worse off than you ever expected to be . 
But Tom was clear upon two points -- that his uncle Moss 's note must be destroyed , and that Luke 's money must be paid , if in no other way , out of his own and Maggie 's money now in the savings ' bank . 
Since these were the consequences of going to law , his father was really blamable , as his aunts and uncles had always said he was ; and it was a significant indication of Tom 's character , that though he thought his aunts ought to do something more for his mother , he felt nothing like Maggie 's violent resentment against them for showing no eager tenderness and generosity . 
said Maggie , putting her arm through Tom 's as he was warming himself rather drearily by the kitchen fire . 
`` O what a pity we have n't got Dominie Sampson , '' said Maggie , who could n't help mingling some gaiety with their sadness . 
I was only joking , '' said Maggie , putting her cheek against his coat sleeve . 
`` But it 's always the same , Maggie , '' said Tom , with the little frown he put on when he was about to be justifiably severe . 
Maggie 's cheek flushed and her lip quivered with conflicting resentment and affection , and a certain awe as well as admiration of Tom 's firmer and more effective character . 
She did not answer immediately ; very angry words rose to her lips , but they were driven back again , and she said at last -- `` You often think I 'm conceited , Tom , when I do n't mean what I say at all in that way . 
Their mother came in now , and Maggie rushed away , that her burst of tears , which she felt must come , might not happen till she was safe upstairs . 
They were very bitter tears : everybody in the world seemed so hard and unkind to Maggie : there was no indulgence , no fondness , such as she imagined when she fashioned the world afresh in her own thoughts . 
The world outside the books was not a happy one , Maggie felt : it seemed to be a world where people behaved the best to those they did not pretend to love , and that did not belong to them . 
And if life had no love in it , what else was there for Maggie ! 
Nothing but poverty and the companionship of her mother 's narrow griefs -- perhaps of her father 's heart-cutting childish dependence . 
Maggie in her brown frock , with her eyes reddened and her heavy hair pushed back , looking from the bed where her father lay , to the dull walls of this sad chamber which was the centre of her world , was a creature full of eager , passionate longings for all that was beautiful and glad ; thirsty for all knowledge ; with an ear straining after dreamy music that died away and would not come near to her ; with a blind , unconscious yearning for something that would link together the wonderful impressions of this mysterious life , and give her soul a sense of home in it . 
Bob had drawn out a dirty canvass bag , and would perhaps not have paused just then if Maggie had not entered the room and darted a look of surprise and curiosity at him , whereupon he pulled his red locks again with due respect . 
But the next moment the sense of the altered room came upon Maggie with a force that overpowered the thought of Bob 's presence . 
Her eyes had immediately glanced from him to the place where the bookcase had hung ; there was nothing now but the oblong unfaded space on the wall , and below it the small table with the Bible and the few other books . 
`` O Tom , '' she burst out , clasping her hands , `` where are the books ? 
`` O but , Tom , '' said Maggie , her eyes filling with tears , as she rushed up to the table to see what books had been rescued . 
Maggie went on , half sobbing as she turned over the few books . 
Maggie turned away from the table and threw herself into a chair , with the big tears ready to roll down her cheeks -- quite blinded to the presence of Bob , who was looking at her with the pursuant gaze of an intelligent dumb animal , with perceptions more perfect than his comprehension . 
Bob pushed the sovereigns forward , but before Tom could speak , Maggie , clasping her hands , and looking penitently at Bob , said -- `` O , I 'm so sorry , Bob -- I never thought you were no good . 
Bob had not been aware of the injurious opinion for which Maggie was performing an inward act of penitence , but he smiled with pleasure at this handsome eulogy -- especially from a young lass who , as he informed his mother that evening , had `` such uncommon eyes , they looked somehow as they made him feel nohow . '' 
`` Let me put the sovereigns in the bag again , '' said Maggie ; `` and you 'll come and see us when you 've bought your pack , Bob . '' 
`` It 's like as if I 'd come out o ' make-believe , o ' purpose to show 'em you , '' said Bob , with an air of discontent , as Maggie gave him the bag again , `` a-taking 'em back i ' this way . 
And Maggie , taking it between her fingers , held it up to Bob , and said , more persuasively -- `` Not now -- but perhaps another time . 
Kezia 's entrance , with very black looks , to inquire if she should n't bring in the tea now , or whether the toast was to get hardened to a brick , was a seasonable check on Bob 's flux of words , and hastened his parting bow . 
One day he had brought Lucy , who was come home for the Christmas holidays , and the little blond angel-head had pressed itself against Maggie 's darker cheek with many kisses and some tears . 
No wonder he was a little cross if his mother or Maggie spoke to him . 
Mrs Tulliver hid these reasonings in her own bosom ; for when she had thrown out a hint to Mr Deane and Mr Glegg , that she would n't mind going to speak to Wakem herself , they had said , `` No , no , no , '' and `` Pooh , pooh , '' and `` Let Wakem alone , '' in the tone of men who were not likely to give a candid attention to a more definite exposition of her project ; still less dared she mention the plan to Tom and Maggie , for `` the children were always so against everything their mother said ; '' and Tom , she observed , was almost as much set against Wakem as his father was . 
that Maggie began to suspect her poor mother 's wits were quite going . 
`` Tom , '' she said , when they were out of their father 's room together , `` we must try to make father understand a little of what has happened before he goes down-stairs . 
Having declared her intention of staying till the master could get about again , `` wage or no wage , '' she had found a certain recompense in keeping a strong hand over her mistress , scolding her for `` moithering '' herself , and going about all day without changing her cap , and looking as if she was `` mushed . '' 
Altogether , this time of trouble was rather a Saturnalian time to Kezia : she could scold her betters with unreproved freedom . 
On this particular occasion there were drying clothes to be fetched in : she wished to know if one pair of hands could do everything indoors and out , and observed that she should have thought it would be good for Mrs Tulliver to put on her bonnet , and get a breath of fresh air by doing that needful piece of work . 
Mr Tulliver was resting in his chair a little after the fatigue of dressing , and Maggie and Tom were seated near him , when Luke entered to ask if he should help master down-stairs . 
Maggie looked at Tom in mute distress -- their father 's mind was so far off the present , which would by-and-by thrust itself on his wandering consciousness ! 
`` Father , '' said Maggie , laying her hand on his , `` do n't you remember that Mr Riley is dead ? '' 
said Mr Tulliver , sharply , looking in her face with a strange , examining glance . 
said her father , doubtfully , still looking in her face . 
Maggie burst out entreatingly , `` it 's a very long while since all that : you 've been ill a great many weeks -- more than two months -- everything is changed . '' 
said Maggie , who thought that terrible word really represented the fact ; `` bear it well -- because we love you -- your children will always love you . 
She felt her father beginning to tremble -- his voice trembled too , as he said , after a few moments -- `` Ay , my little wench , but I shall never live twice o'er . '' 
`` You must not be surprised to see the room look very bare down-stairs , father , '' said Maggie ; `` but there 's your chair and the bureau -- they 're not gone . '' 
Maggie ran on before to see that all was right in the dreary parlour , where the fire , dulled by the frosty sunshine , seemed part of the general shabbiness . 
She turned her father 's chair , and pushed aside the table to make an easy way for him , and then stood with a beating heart to see him enter and look round for the first time . 
Tom advanced before him , carrying the leg-rest , and stood beside Maggie on the hearth . 
Of those two young hearts Tom 's suffered the most unmixed pain , for Maggie , with all her keen susceptibility , yet felt as if the sorrow made larger room for her love to flow in , and gave breathing-space to her passionate nature . 
... '' `` O mother , '' said Maggie , `` do n't talk in that way . '' 
There were times when poor Tulliver thought the fulfilment of his promise to Bessy was something quite too hard for human nature : he had promised her without knowing what she was going to say -- she might as well have asked him to carry a ton weight on his back . 
But again , there were many feelings arguing on her side , besides the sense that life had been made hard to her by having married him . 
Maggie noticed that he was unusually absent that evening at tea ; and afterwards he sat leaning forward in his chair , looking at the ground , moving his lips , and shaking his head from time to time . 
Then he looked hard at Mrs Tulliver , who was knitting opposite him , then at Maggie , who , as she bent over her sewing , was intensely conscious of some drama going forward in her father 's mind . 
said Maggie ; `` you seem uneasy . '' 
Maggie obeyed , wondering : but her father gave no further orders , and only sat listening for Tom 's footfall on the gravel , apparently irritated by the wind , which had risen and was roaring so as to drown all other sounds . 
There was a strange light in his eyes that rather frightened Maggie : she began to wish that Tom would come , too . 
Maggie went to open the door , but her mother came out of the kitchen hurriedly , saying , `` Stop a bit , Maggie ; I 'll open it . '' 
`` I think my father wants Tom , mother , '' said Maggie ; `` he must come into the parlour first . '' 
said Maggie , sinking down by his knee , pale and trembling . 
`` It is n't wicked , I tell you , '' said her father , fiercely . 
There was a dead silence as Tom 's pen moved along the paper : Mrs Tulliver looked scared , and Maggie trembled like a leaf . 
said Maggie , almost choked with fear . 
`` Be quiet , Maggie ! '' 
I share with you this sense of oppressive narrowness ; but it is necessary that we should feel it , if we care to understand how it acted on the lives of Tom and Maggie -- how it has acted on young natures in many generations , that in the onward tendency of human things have risen above the mental level of the generation before them , to which they have been nevertheless tied by the strongest fibres of their hearts . 
This time of utmost need was come to Maggie , with her short span of thirteen years . 
To the usual precocity of the girl , she added that early experience of struggle , of conflict between the inward impulse and outward fact , which is the lot of every imaginative and passionate nature ; and the years since she hammered the nails into her wooden Fetish among the worm-eaten shelves of the attic , had been filled with so eager a life in the triple world of Reality , Books , and Waking Dreams , that Maggie was strangely old for her years in every-thing except in her entire want of that prudence and self-command which were the qualities that made Tom manly in the midst of his intellectual boyishness . 
And now her lot was beginning to have a still , sad monotony , which threw her more than ever on her inward self . 
Her father was able to attend to business again , his affairs were settled , and he was acting as Wakem 's manager on the old spot . 
It was piteous to see the comely blond stout woman getting thinner and more worn under a bodily as well as mental rest-lessness , which made her often wander about the empty house after her work was done , until Maggie becoming alarmed about her , would seek her , and bring her down by telling her how it vexed Tom that she was injuring her health by never sitting down and resting herself . 
yet amidst this helpless imbecility there was a touching trait of humble self-devoting maternity , which made Maggie feel tenderly towards her poor mother amidst all the little wearing griefs caused by her mental feebleness . 
She would let Maggie do none of the work that was heaviest and most soiling to the hands , and was quite peevish when Maggie attempted to relieve her from her grate-brushing and scouring : `` Let it alone , my dear ; your hands ` ull get as hard as hard , '' she would say : `` it 's your mother 's place to do that . 
And she would still brush and carefully tend . 
Maggie 's hair , which she had become reconciled to , in spite of its refusal to curl , now it was so long and massy . 
Maggie was not her pet child , and , in general , would have been much better if she had been quite different ; yet the womanly heart , so bruised in its small personal desires , found a future to rest on in the life of this young thing , and the mother pleased herself with wearing out her own hands to save the hands that had so much more life in them . 
But the constant presence of her mother 's regretful bewilderment was less painful to Maggie than that of her father 's sullen incommunicative depression . 
As long as the paralysis was upon him , and it seemed as if he might always be in a childlike condition of dependence -- as long as he was still only half-awakened to his trouble , Maggie had felt the strong tide of pitying love almost as an inspiration , a new power , that would make the most difficult life easy for his sake ; but now , instead of childlike dependence there had come a taciturn hard concentration of purpose , in strange contrast with his old vehement communicativeness and high spirit ; and this lasted from day to day , and from week to week , the dull eye never brightening with any eagerness or any joy . 
When Maggie laid down her work at night , it was her habit to get a low stool and sit by her father 's knee , leaning her cheek against it . 
How she wished he would stroke her head , or give some sign that he was soothed by the sense that he had a daughter who loved him ! 
One afternoon , when the chestnuts were coming into flower , Maggie had brought her chair outside the front door , and was seated there with a book on her knees . 
Her dark eyes had wandered from the book , but they did not seem to be enjoying the sunshine which pierced the screen of jasmine on the projecting porch at her right , and threw leafy shadows on her pale round cheek ; they seemed rather to be searching for something that was not disclosed by the sunshine . 
It had been a more miserable day than usual : her father , after a visit of Wakem 's , had had a paroxysm of rage , in which for some trifling fault he had beaten the boy who served in the mill . 
Once before , since his illness , he had had a similar paroxysm , in which he had beaten his horse , and the scene had left a lasting terror in Maggie 's mind . 
The thought had risen , that some time or other he might beat her mother if she happened to speak in her feeble way at the wrong moment . 
The keenest of all dread with her was , lest her father should add to his present misfortune the wretchedness of doing something irretrievably disgraceful . 
The battered school-book of Tom 's which she held on her knees could give her no fortitude under the pressure of that dread , and again and again her eyes had filled with tears , as they wandered vaguely , seeing neither the chestnut trees nor the distant horizon , but only future scenes of home-sorrow . 
Suddenly she was roused by the sound of the opening gate and of footsteps on the gravel . 
said Maggie , starting up with a smile of pleased recognition , for there had been no abundance of kind acts to efface the recollection of Bob 's generosity ; `` I 'm so glad to see you . '' 
`` My brother is not at home yet , Bob , '' said Maggie ; `` he is always at St Ogg 's in the daytime . '' 
Apparently , however , they were not the object to which he wished to call Maggie 's attention , but rather something which he had carried under his arm , wrapped in a red handkerchief . 
said Maggie , deeply touched by this simple kindness `` How very , very good of you ! 
`` No , indeed , Bob , '' said Maggie , `` I 'm very thankful to you for thinking of me , and being so good to me and Tom . 
-- they 're better friends nor any Christian , '' said Bob , laying down his pack again , which he had taken up with the intention of hurrying away ; for he felt considerable shyness in talking to a young lass like Maggie , though , as he usually said of himself , `` his tongue overrun him '' when he began to speak . 
said Maggie . 
said Maggie , divining that any interest she showed in Mumps would be gratifying to his master . 
`` He looks dreadfully surly , '' said Maggie `` Would he let me pat him ? '' 
said Maggie . 
I clap my thumb at the end o ' the yard and cut o ' the hither side of it , and the old women are n't up to ` t. '' `` But , Bob , '' said Maggie , looking serious , `` that 's cheating : I do n't like to hear you say that . '' 
Maggie , thus exalted into Bob 's directing Madonna , laughed in spite of herself ; at which her worshipper 's blue eyes twinkled too , and under these favouring auspices he touched his cap and walked away . 
That gleam of merriment soon died away from Maggie 's face , and perhaps only made the returning gloom deeper by contrast . 
She was too dispirited even to like answering questions about Bob 's present of books , and she carried them away to her bedroom , laying them down there and seating herself on her one stool , without caring to look at them just yet . 
She leaned her cheek against the window-frame , and thought that the light-hearted Bob had a lot much happier than hers . 
Maggie 's sense of loneliness , and utter privation of joy , had deepened with the brightness of advancing spring . 
All the favourite out-door nooks about home , which seemed to have done their part with her parents in nurturing and cherishing her , were now mixed up with the home-sadness , and gathered no smile from the sunshine . 
Every affection , every delight the poor child had had , was like an aching nerve to her . 
There was no music for her any more -- no piano , no harmonised voices , no delicious stringed instruments , with their passionate cries of imprisoned spirits sending a strange vibration through her frame . 
And of all her school-life there was nothing left her now but her little collection of school-books , which she turned over with a sickening sense that she knew them all , and they were all barren of comfort . 
Even at school she had often wished for books with more in them : everything she learned there seemed like the ends of long threads that snapped immediately . 
Sometimes Maggie thought she could have been contented with absorbing fancies : if she could have had all Scott 's novels and all Byron 's poems ! 
-- then , perhaps , she might have found happiness enough to dull her sensibility to her actual daily life . 
And yet ... they were hardly what she wanted . 
She could make dream-worlds of her own -- but no dream-world would satisfy her now . 
She wanted some explanation of this hard , real life : the unhappy-looking father , seated at the dull breakfast-table ; the childish , bewildered mother ; the little sordid tasks that filled the hours , or the more oppressive emptiness of weary , joyless leisure ; the need of some tender , demonstrative love ; the cruel sense that Tom did n't mind what she thought or felt , and that they were no longer playfellows together ; the privation of all pleasant things that had come to her more than to others : she wanted some key that would enable her to understand , and , in understanding , endure , the heavy weight that had fallen on her young heart . 
Saints and martyrs had never interested Maggie so much as sages and poets . 
She knew little of saints and martyrs , and had gathered , as a general result of her teaching , that they were a temporary provision against the spread of Catholicism , and had all died at Smithfield . 
In one of these meditations , it occurred to her that she had forgotten Tom 's school-books , which had been sent home in his trunk . 
But she found the stock unaccountably shrunk down to the few old ones which had been well thumbed -- the Latin Dictionary and Grammar , a Delectus , a torn . 
The voice pierced through Maggie like a sword : there was another sadness besides her own , and she had been thinking of turning her back on it and forsaking it . 
This afternoon , the sight of Bob 's cheerful freckled face had given her discontent a new direction . 
She thought it was part of the hardship of her life that there was laid upon her the burthen of-larger wants than others seemed to feel -- that she had to endure this wide hopeless yearning for that something , whatever it was , that was greatest and best on this earth . 
She wished she could have been like Bob , with his easily satisfied ignorance , or like Tom , who had something to do on which he could fix his mind with a steady purpose , and disregard everything else . 
as she leaned her head against the window-frame , with her hands clasped tighter and tighter , and her foot beating the ground , she was as lonely in her trouble as if she had been the only girl in the civilised world of that day who had come out of her school-life with a soul untrained for inevitable struggles -- with no other part of her inherited share in the hard-won treasures of thought , which generations of painful toil have laid up for the race of men , than shreds and patches of feeble literature and false history -- with much futile information about Saxon and other kings of doubtful example , but unhappily quite without that knowledge of the irreversible laws within and without her , which , governing the habits , becomes morality , and , developing the feelings of submission and dependence , becomes religion : -- as lonely in her trouble as if every other girl besides herself had been cherished and watched over by elder minds , not forgetful of their own early time , when need was keen and impulse strong . 
At last Maggie 's eyes glanced down on the books that lay on the window-shelf , and she half forsook her reverie to turn over listlessly the leaves of the `` Portrait Gallery , '' but she soon pushed this aside to examine the little row of books tied together with string . 
`` Beauties of the Spectator , '' `` Rasselas , '' `` Economy of Human Life , '' `` Gregory 's Letters '' -- she knew the sort of matter that was inside all these : the `` Christian Year '' -- that seemed to be a hymn-book , and she laid it down again ; but Thomas  Kempis ? 
-- the name had come across her in her reading , and she felt the satisfaction , which every one knows , of getting some ideas to attach to a name that strays solitary in the memory . 
She took up the little , old , clumsy book with some curiosity : it had the corners turned down in many places , and some hand , now for ever quiet , had made at certain passages strong pen-and-ink marks , long since browned by time . 
Maggie turned from leaf to leaf , and read where the quiet hand pointed . 
... '' A strange thrill of awe passed through Maggie while she read , as if she had been wakened in the night by a strain of solemn music , telling of beings whose souls had been astir while hers was in stupor . 
She went on from one brown mark to another , where the quiet hand seemed to point , hardly conscious that she was reading -- seeming rather to listen while a low voice said -- `` Why dost thou here gaze about , since this is not the place of thy rest ? 
Maggie drew a long breath and pushed her heavy hair back , as if to see a sudden vision more clearly . 
Here , then , was a secret of life that would enable her to renounce all other secrets -- here was a sublime height to be reached without the help of outward things -- here was insight , and strength , and conquest , to be won by means entirely within her own soul , where a supreme Teacher was waiting to be heard . 
It flashed through her like the suddenly apprehended solution of a problem , that all the miseries of her young life had come from fixing her heart on her own pleasure , as if that were the central necessity of the universe ; and for the first time she saw the possibility of shifting the position from which she looked at the gratification of her own desires , of taking her stand out of herself , and looking at her own life as an insignificant part of a divinely-guided whole . 
She read on and on in the old book , devouring eagerly the dialogues with the invisible Teacher , the pattern of sorrow , the source of all strength ; returning to it after she had been called away , and reading till the sun went down behind the willows . 
With all the hurry of an imagination that could never rest in the present , she sat in the deepening twilight forming plans of self-humiliation and entire devotedness ; and , in the ardour of first discovery , renunciation seemed to her the entrance into that satisfaction which she had so long been craving in vain . 
She had not perceived -- how could she until she had lived longer ? 
Maggie was still panting for happiness , and was in ecstasy because she had found the key to it . 
She knew nothing of doctrines and systems -- of mysticism or quietism ; but this voice out of the far-off middle ages was the direct communication of a human soul 's belief and experience , and came to Maggie as an unquestioned message . 
And it was by being brought within the long lingering vibrations of such a voice that Maggie , with her girl 's face and unnoted sorrows , found an effort and a hope that helped her through years of loneliness , making out a faith for herself without the aid of established authorities and appointed guides -- for they were not at hand , and her need was pressing . 
From what you know of her , you will not be surprised that she threw some exaggeration and wilfulness , some pride and impetuosity , even into her self-renunciation : her own life was still a drama for her , in which she demanded of herself that her part should be played with intensity . 
And so it came to pass that she often lost the spirit of humility by being excessive in the outward act ; she often strove after too high a flight , and came down with her poor little half-fledged wings dabbled in the mud . 
For example , she not only determined to work at plain sewing , that she might contribute something towards the fund in the tin box , but she went , in the first instance , in her zeal of self-mortification , to ask for it a linen-shop in St Ogg 's , instead of getting it in a more quiet and indirect way ; and could see nothing but what was entirely wrong and unkind , nay , persecuting , in Tom 's reproof of her for this unnecessary act . 
Surely there was some tenderness and bravery mingled with the worldliness and self-assertion of that little speech ; but Maggie held it as dross , overlooking the grains of gold , and took Tom 's rebuke as one of her outward crosses . 
Tom was very hard to her , she used to think , in her long night-watchings -- to her who had always loved him so ; and then she strove to be contented with that hardness , and to require nothing . 
The old books , Virgil , Euclid , and Aldrich -- that wrinkled fruit of the tree of knowledge -- had been all laid by ; for Maggie had turned her back on the vain ambition to share the thoughts of the wise . 
In her first ardour she flung away the books with a art of triumph that she had risen above the need of them ; and if they had been her own , she would have burned them , believing that she would never repent . 
She read so eagerly and constantly in her three books , the Bible , Thomass--Kempis , and the `` Christian Year '' -LRB- no longer rejected as a `` hymnbook '' -RRB- , that they filled her mind with a continual stream of rhythmic memories ; and she was too ardently learning to see all nature and life in the light of her new faith , to need any other material for her mind to work on , as she sat with her wellplied needle , making shirts and other complicated stitchings , falsely called `` plain '' -- by no means plain to Maggie , since wristband and sleeve and the like had a capability of being sewed in wrong side outwards in moments of mental wandering . 
Hanging diligently over her sewing , Maggie was a sight any one might have been pleased to look at . 
That new inward life of hers , notwithstanding some volcanic upheavings of imprisoned passions , yet shone out in her face with a tender soft light that mingled itself as added loveliness with the gradually enriched colour and outline of her blossoming youth . 
Her mother felt the change in her with a sort of puzzled wonder that Maggie should be `` growing up so good ; '' it was amazing that this once `` contrairy '' child was become so submissive , so backward to assert her own will . 
Maggie used to look up from her work and find her mother 's eyes fixed upon her : they were watching and waiting for the large young glance , as if her elder frame got some needful warmth from it . 
The mother was getting fond of her tall , brown girl , the only bit of furniture now on which she could bestow her anxiety and pride ; and Maggie , in spite of her own ascetic wish to have no personal adornment , was obliged to give way to her mother about her hair , and submit to have the abundant black locks plsited into a coronet on the summit of her head , after the pitiable fashion of those antiquated times . 
So Maggie , glad of anything that would soothe her mother , and cheer their long day together , consented to the vain decoration , and showed a queenly head above her old frocks -- steadily refusing , however , to look at herself in the glass . 
Mrs Tulliver liked to call the father 's attention to Maggie 's hair and other unexpected virtues , but he had a brusque reply to give . 
And Maggie 's graces of mind and body fed his gloom . 
He sat patiently enough while she read him a chapter , or said something timidly when they were alone together about trouble being turned into a blessing . 
Maggie was sitting with her work against the latter window when she saw Mr Wakem entering the yard , as usual , on his fine black horse ; but not alone , as usual . 
Maggie had hardly time to feel that it was Philip come back , before they were in front of the window , and he was raising his hat to her ; while his father , catching the movement by a side-glance , looked sharply round at them both . 
Maggie hurried away from the window and carried her work up-stairs ; for Mr Wakem sometimes came in and inspected the books , and Maggie felt that the meeting with Philip would be robbed of all pleasure in the presence of the two fathers . 
Some day , perhaps , she should see him when they could just shake hands , and she could tell him that she remembered his goodness to Tom , and the things he had said to her in the old days , though they could never be friends any more . 
It was not at all agitating to Maggie to see Philip again : she retained her childish gratitude and pity towards him , and remembered his cleverness ; and in the early weeks of her loneliness she had continually recalled the image of him among the people who had been kind to her in life ; often wishing she had him for a brother and a teacher , as they had fancied it might have been , in their talk together . 
But that sort of wishing had been banished along with other dreams that savoured of seeking her own will ; and she thought , besides , that Philip might be altered by his life abroad -- he might have become worldly , and really not care about her saying anything to him now . 
And yet , his face was wonderfully little altered -- it was only a larger , more manly copy of the pale small-featured boy 's face , with the grey eyes and the boyish waving brown hair : there was the old deformity to awaken the old pity ; and after all her meditations , Maggie felt that she really should like to say a few words to him . 
He might still be melancholy , as he always used to be , and like her to look at him kindly . 
She wondered if he remembered how he used to like her eyes ; with that thought Maggie glanced towards the square looking-glass which was condemned to hang with its face towards the wall , and she half-started from her seat to reach it down ; but she checked herself and snatched up her work , trying to repress the rising wishes by forcing her memory to recall snatches of hymns , until she saw Philip and his father returning along the road , and she could go down again . 
It was far on in June now , and Maggie was inclined to lengthen the daily walk which was her one indulgence ; but this day and the following she was so busy with work which must be finished that she never went beyond the gate , and satisfied her need of the open air by sitting out of doors . 
One of her frequent walks , when she was not obliged to go to St Ogg 's , was to a spot that lay beyond what was called the `` Hill '' -- an insignificant rise of ground crowned by trees , lying along the side of the road which ran by the gates of Dorlcote Mill . 
In her childish days Maggie held this place , called the Red Deeps , in very great awe , and needed all her confidence in Tom 's bravery to reconcile her to an excursion thither -- visions of robbers and fierce animals haunting every hollow . 
But now it had the charm for her which any broken ground , any mimic rock and ravine , have for the eyes that rest habitually on the level ; especially in summer , when she could sit on a grassy hollow under the shadow of a branching ash , stooping aslant from the steep above her , and listen to the hum of insects , like tiniest bells on the garment of Silence , or see the sunlight piercing the distant boughs , as if to chase and drive home the truant heavenly blue of the wild hyacinths . 
In this June time too , the dog-roses were in their glory , and that was an additional reason why Maggie should direct her walk to the Red Deeps , rather than to any other spot , on the first day she was free to wander at her will -- a pleasure she loved so well , that sometimes , in her ardours of renunciation , she thought she ought to deny herself the frequent indulgence in it . 
You may see her now , as she walks down the favourite turning , and enters the Deeps by a narrow path through a group of Scotch firs -- her tall figure and old lavender-gown visible through an hereditary black-silk shawl of some wide-meshed net-like material ; and now she is sure of being unseen , she takes off her bonnet and ties it over her arm . 
One would certainly suppose her to be farther on in life than her seventeenth year -- perhaps because of the slow resigned sadness of the glance , from which all search and unrest seem to have departed , perhaps because her broad-chested figure has the mould of early womanhood . 
Youth and health have withstood well the involuntary and voluntary hardships of her lot , and the nights in which she has lain on the hard floor for a penance have left no obvious trace ; the eyes are liquid , the brown cheek is firm and rounded , the full lips are red . 
With her dark colouring and jet crown surmounting her tall figure , she seems to have a sort of kinship with the grand Scotch firs , at which she is looking up as if she loved them well . 
Yet one has a sense of uneasiness in looking at her -- a sense of opposing elements , of which a fierce collision is imminent : surely there is a hushed expression , such as one often sees in older faces under borderless caps , out of keeping with the resistant youth , which one expects to flash out in a sudden , passionate glance , that will dissipate all the quietude , like a damped fire leaping out again when all seemed safe . 
But Maggie herself was not uneasy at this moment . 
She was calmly enjoying the free air , while she looked up at the old fir-trees , and thought that those broken ends of branches were the records of past storms , which had only made the red stems soar higher . 
But while her eyes were still turned upward , she became conscious of a moving shadow cast by the evening sun on the grassy path before her , and looked down with a startled gesture to see Philip Wakem , who first raised his hat , and then , blushing deeply , came forward to her and put out his hand . 
Maggie , too , coloured with surprise , which soon gave way to pleasure . 
She put out her hand and looked down at the deformed figure before her with frank eyes , filled for the moment with nothing but the memory of her child 's feelings -- a memory that was always strong in her . 
She was the first to speak . 
`` You startled me , '' she said , smiling faintly ; `` I never meet any one here . 
It was impossible not to perceive that Maggie felt herself a child again . 
`` No , '' said Maggie , with simple seriousness , walking on , as if she meant Philip to accompany her , `` I 'm very glad you came , for I wished very much to have an opportunity of speaking to you . 
Maggie saw her old self leaning on a table , with her black locks hanging down behind her ears , looking into space with strange , dreamy eyes . 
`` O dear , '' said Maggie , smiling , and flushed with pleasure , `` what a queer little girl I was ! 
I daresay I am now , '' she added , after a little pause ; `` am I like what you expected me to be ? '' 
The words might have been those of a coquette , but the full bright glance Maggie turned on Philip was not that of a coquette . 
She really did hope he liked her face as it was now , but it was simply the rising again of her innate delight in admiration and love . 
Philip met her eyes and looked at her in silence for a long moment , before he said , quietly , `` No , Maggie . '' 
The light died out a little from Maggie 's face , and there was a slight trembling of the lip . 
Her eyelids fell lower , but she did not turn away her head , and Philip continued to look at her . 
said Maggie , the pleasure returning in a deeper flush . 
She turned her face away from him and took some steps , looking straight before her in silence , as if she were adjusting her consciousness to this new idea . 
Girls are so accustomed to think of dress as the main ground of vanity , that , in abstaining from the looking-glass , Maggie had thought more of abandoning all care for adornment than of renouncing the contemplation of her face . 
Comparing herself with elegant , wealthy young ladies , it had not occured to her that she could produce any effect with her person . 
He walked by her side , watching her face , as if that sight left no room for any other wish . 
But as the light about them had brightened , Maggie 's face had lost its glow . 
She stood still when they were in the hollows , and , looking at Philip again , she said in a serious , sad voice -- `` I wish we could have been friends -- I mean , if it would have been good and right for us . 
Maggie spoke with more and more sorrowful gentleness as she went on , and her eyes began to fill with tears . 
The deepening expression of pain on Philip 's face gave him a stronger resemblance to his boyish self , and made the deformity appeal more strongly to her pity . 
But it is not right , Maggie -- do n't you be angry with me , I am so used to call you Maggie in my thoughts -- it is not right to sacrifice everything to other people 's unreasonable feelings . 
`` I do n't know , '' said Maggie , musingly . 
Do n't ask me why , or anything about it , '' said Maggie , in a distressed tone . 
said Maggie , gently . 
After that last word of Philip 's , Maggie could not bear to insist immediately on their parting . 
`` I 've been a great deal happier , '' she said at last , timidly , `` since I have given up thinking about what is easy and pleasant , and being discontented because I could n't have my own will . 
`` O , Philip , '' said Maggie , `` I wish you did n't feel so . '' 
But her heart began to beat with something of Philip 's discontent . 
`` Well , then , '' said he , turning quickly round and fixing his grey eyes entreatingly in her face , `` I should be contented to live , if you would let me see you sometimes . '' 
Then , checked by a fear which her face suggested , he looked away again , and said more calmly , `` I have no friend to whom I can tell everything -- no one who cares enough about me ; and if I could only see you now and then , and you would let me talk to you a little , and show me that you cared for me -- and that we may always be friends in heart , and help each other -- then I might come to be glad of life . '' 
said Maggie , falteringly . 
-LRB- Could she really do him good ? 
Maggie shook her head slowly , and was silent , under conflicting thoughts . 
It seemed to her inclination , that to see Philip now and then , and keep up the bond of friendship with him , was something not only innocent , but good : perhaps she might really help him to find contentment , as she had found it . 
The voice that said this made sweet music to Maggie ; but athwart it there came an urgent monotonous warning from another voice which she had been learning to obey : the warning that such interviews implied secresy -- implied doing something she would dread to be discovered in -- something that , if discovered , must cause anger and pain ; and that the admission of anything so near doubleness would act as a spiritual blight . 
Yet the music would swell out again , like chimes borne onward by a recurrent breeze , persuading her that the wrong lay all in the faults and weaknesses of others , and that there was such a thing as futile sacrifice for one to the injury of another . 
The idea that he might become her lover , or that her meeting him could cause disapproval in that light , had not occurred to her ; and Philip saw the absence of this idea clearly enough -- saw it with a certain pang , although it made her consent to his request the less unlikely . 
There was bitterness to him in the perception that Maggie was almost as frank and unconstrained towards him as when she was a child . 
`` I ca n't say either yes or no , '' she said at last , turning round and walking towards the way she had come ; `` I must wait , lest I should decide wrongly . 
`` I think I had better write , '' said Maggie , faltering again . 
`` I think it must be so , then , '' said Maggie , `` for I ca n't be quite certain of coming here any particular evening . '' 
Maggie felt a great relief in adjourning the decision . 
She was free now to enjoy the minutes of companionship : she almost thought she might linger a little ; the next time they met she should have to pain Philip by telling him her determination . 
`` I ca n't help thinking , '' she said , looking smilingly at him after a few moments of silence , `` how strange it is that we should have met and talked to each other , just as if it had been only yesterday when we parted at Lorton . 
How was it you seemed to have a sort of feeling that I was the same Maggie ? 
I know what you mean about music -- I feel so , '' said Maggie , clasping her hands with her old impetuosity . 
`` At least , '' she added , in a saddened tone , `` I used to feel so when I had any music : I never have any now , except the organ at church . '' 
`` And you long for it , Maggie ? '' 
said Philip , looking at her with affectionate pity . 
`` No , I have given up books , '' said Maggie , quietly , `` except a very , very few . '' 
Maggie had looked at the back too , and saw the title : it revived an old impression with overmastering force . 
``` The Pirate , ''' she said , taking the book from Philip 's hands . 
Maggie spoke rapidly , with glistening eyes . 
`` Take that volume home with you , Maggie , '' said Philip , watching her with delight . 
Maggie had not heard a word he had said : she was absorbed in a page at which she had opened . 
But suddenly she closed the book , and gave it back to Philip , shaking her head with a backward movement , as if to say `` avaunt '' to floating visions . 
`` Do keep it , Maggie , '' said Philip , entreatingly ; `` it will give you pleasure . '' 
`` No , thank you , '' said Maggie , putting it aside with her hand , and walking on . 
It is narrow asceticism -- I do n't like to see you persisting in it , Maggie . 
`` But not for me -- not for me , '' said Maggie , walking more hurriedly . 
`` Do n't hurry away from me without saying ` good-by , ' Maggie , '' said Philip , as they reached the group of Scotch firs , and she continued still to walk along without speaking . 
`` O no , I forgot ; good-by , '' said Maggie , pausing , and putting out her hand to him . 
The action brought her feeling back in a strong current to Philip ; and after they had stood looking at each other in silence for a few moments , with their hands clasped , she said , withdrawing her hand , `` I 'm very grateful to you for thinking of me all those years . 
`` Ah , Maggie , '' said Philip , almost fretfully , `` you would never love me so well as you love your brother . '' 
`` Perhaps not , '' said Maggie , simply ; `` but then , you know , the first thing I ever remember in my life is standing with Tom by the side of the Floss , while he held my hand : everything before that is dark to me . 
`` Do n't say so , Maggie , '' said Philip . 
`` If I kept that little girl in my mind for five years , did n't I earn some part in her ? 
She ought not to take herself quite away from me . '' 
`` Not if I were free , '' said Maggie ; `` but I am not -- I must submit . '' 
She hesitated a moment and then added , `` And I wanted to say to you , that you had better not take more notice of my brother than just bowing to him . 
She gave him her hand once more . 
`` I shall come here as often as I can , till I see you again , Maggie . 
`` Yes , yes , I have , '' said Maggie , hurrying away , and quickly disappearing behind the last fir-tree ; though Philip 's gaze after her remained immovable for minutes , as if he saw her still . 
Maggie went home , with an inward conflict already begun ; Philip went home to do nothing but remember and hope . 
He was four or five years older than Maggie , and had a full consciousness of his feeling towards her to aid him in foreseeing the character his contemplated interviews with her would bear in the opinion of a third person . 
But you must not suppose that he was capable of a gross selfishness , or that he could have been satisfied without persuading himself that he was seeking to infuse some happiness into Maggie 's life -- seeking this even more than any direct ends for himself . 
He could give her sympathy -- he could give her help . 
There was not the slightest promise of love towards him in her manner ; it was nothing more than the sweet girlish tenderness she had shown him when she was twelve : perhaps she would never love him -- perhaps no woman ever could love him : well , then , he would endure that ; he should at least have the happiness of seeing her -- of feeling some nearness to her . 
And he clutched passionately the possibility that she might love him : perhaps the feeling would grow , if she could come to associate him with that watchful tenderness which her nature would be so keenly alive to . 
If any woman could love him , surely Maggie was that woman : there was such wealth of love in her , and there was no one to claim it all . 
Could he not hinder that , by persuading her out of her system of privation ? 
He would be her guardian angel ; he would do anything , bear anything for her sake -- except not seeing her . 
While Maggie 's life-struggles had lain almost entirely within her own soul , one shadowy army fighting another , and the slain shadows for ever rising again , Tom was engaged in a dustier , noisier warfare , grappling with more substantial obstacles , and gaining more definite conquests . 
Maggie had an awe of him , against which she struggled as something unfair to her consciousness of wider thoughts and deeper motives ; but it was of no use to struggle . 
Bob Jakin , who rarely returned from one of his rounds without seeing Tom and Maggie , awaited him on the bridge as he was coming home from St Ogg 's one evening , that they might have a little private talk . 
At the time of Maggie 's first meeting with Philip , Tom had already nearly a hundred and fifty pounds of his own capital , and while they were walking by the evening light in the Red Deeps , he , by the same evening light , was riding into Laceham , proud of being on his first journey on behalf of Guest and Co. , and revolving in his mind all the chances that by the end of another year he should have doubled his gains , lifted off the obloquy of debt from his father 's name , and perhaps -- for he should be twenty-one -- have got a new start for himself , on a higher platform of employment . 
I said that Maggie went home that evening from the Red Deeps with a mental conflict already begun . 
You have seen clearly enough , in her interview with Philip , what that conflict was . 
Here suddenly was an opening in the rocky wall which shut in the narrow valley of humilation , where all her prospect was the remote unfathomed sky ; and some of the memory-haunting earthly delights were no longer out of her reach . 
She might have books , converse , affection -- she might hear tidings of the world from which her mind had not yet lost its sense of exile ; and it would be a kindness to Philip too , who was pitiable -- clearly not happy ; and perhaps here was an opportunity indicated for making her mind more worthy of its highest service -- perhaps the noblest , completest devoutness could hardly exist without some width of knowledge : must she always live in this resigned imprisonment ? 
It was so blameless , so good a thing that there should be friendship between her and Philip ; the motives that forbade it were so unreasonable -- so unchristian ! 
But the severe monotonous warning came again and again -- that she was losing the simplicity and clearness of her life by admitting a ground of concealment , and that , by forsaking the simple rule of renunciation , she was throwing herself under the seductive guidance of illimitable wants . 
She thought she had won strength to obey the warning before she allowed herself the next week to turn her steps in the evening to the Red Deeps . 
But while she was resolved to say an affectionate farewell to Philip , how she looked forward to that evening walk in the still , fleckered shade of the hollows , away from all that was harsh and unlovely ; to the affectionate admiring looks that would meet her ; to the sense of comradeship that childish memories would give to wiser , older talk ; to the certainty that Philip would care to hear everything she said , which no one else cared for ! 
It was a half-hour that it would be very hard to turn her back upon , with the sense that there would be no other like it . 
Yet she said what she meant to say ; she looked firm as well as sad . 
But he controlled himself , and said with assumed calmness , `` Well , Maggie , if we must part , let us try and forget it for one half-hour : let us talk together a little while -- for the last time . '' 
He took her hand , and Maggie felt no reason to withdraw it : his quietness made her all the more sure she had given him great pain , and she wanted to show him how unwillingly she had given it . 
`` I 've begun my picture of you among the Scotch firs , Maggie , '' said Philip , `` so you must let me study your face a little , while you stay -- since I am not to see it again . 
This was said in an entreating voice , and it would have been very hard of Maggie to refuse . 
`` I shall be sitting for my second portrait , then , '' she said , smiling . 
`` But surely that is a happiness to have so many tastes -- to enjoy so many beautiful things -- when they are within your reach , '' said Maggie , musingly . 
Maggie did not hear the last words : she was struggling against the consciousness that Philip 's words had set her own discontent vibrating again as it used to do . 
`` I understand what you mean , '' she said , `` though I know so much less than you do . 
`` Yes , Maggie , '' said Philip , vehemently ; `` and you are shutting yourself up in a narrow self-delusive fanaticism , which is only a way of escaping pain by starving into dulness all the highest powers of your nature . 
Maggie 's lips trembled ; she felt there was some truth in what Philip said , and yet there was a deeper consciousness that , for any immediate application it had to her conduct , it was no better than falsity . 
Her double impression corresponded to the double impulse of the speaker . 
But Maggie 's face , made more child-like by the gathering tears , touched him with a tenderer , less egoistic feeling . 
He took her hand and said gently -- `` Do n't let us think of such things in this short half-hour , Maggie . 
`` What a dear , good brother you would have been , Philip , '' said Maggie , smiling through the haze of tears . 
she added abruptly , as if she had forgotten what went before . 
`` I know , '' said Philip , and Maggie buried her face in her hands , while he sang , sotto voce , `` Love in her eyes sits playing ; '' and then said , `` That 's it , is n't it ? '' 
`` O no , I wo n't stay , '' said Maggie , starting up . 
She moved away , so that he was obliged to rise and follow her . 
`` Maggie , '' he said , in a tone of remonstrance , `` do n't persist in this wilful , senseless privation . 
said Maggie . 
`` I shall have strength given me , '' said Maggie , tremulously . 
`` No , you will not , Maggie : no one has strength given to do what is unnatural . 
Maggie started and paused , looking at Philip with alarm in her face . 
`` No , I am not ; but love gives insight , Maggie , and insight often gives foreboding . 
Maggie felt unable to speak . 
She shook her head and walked on in silence , till they came to the end of the Scotch firs , and she put out her hand in sign of parting . 
`` Do you banish me from this place for ever , then , Maggie ? 
Maggie felt her heart leap at this subterfuge of Philip 's , and there passed over her face that almost imperceptible shock which accompanies any relief . 
Philip 's sense of the situation was too complete for him not to be visited with glancing fears lest he had been intervening too presumptuously in the action of Maggie 's conscience -- perhaps for a selfish end . 
He had little hope that Maggie would ever return the strong feeling he had for her ; and it must be better for Maggie 's future life , when these petty family obstacles to her freedom had disappeared , that the present should not be entirely sacrificed , and that she should have some opportunity of culture -- some interchange with a mind above the vulgar level of those she was now condemned to live with . 
And it was in this way that Philip justified his subtle efforts to overcome Maggie 's true prompting against a concealment that would introduce doubleness into her own mind , and might cause new misery to those who had the primary natural claim on her . 
His longing to see Maggie , and make an element in her life , had in it some of that savage impulse to snatch an offered joy , which springs from a life in which the mental and bodily constitution have made pain predominate . 
Even to Maggie he was an exception : it was clear that the thought of his being her lover had never entered her mind . 
Early in the following April , nearly a year after that dubious parting you have just witnessed , you may , if you like , again see Maggie entering the Red Deeps through the group of Scotch firs . 
But it is early afternoon and not evening , and the edge of sharpness in the spring air makes her draw her large shawl close about her and trip along rather quickly ; though she looks round , as usual , that she may take in the sight of her beloved trees . 
There is a more eager , inquiring look in her eyes than there was last June , and a smile is hovering about her lips , as if some playful speech were awaiting the right hearer . 
`` Take back your Corinne , '' said Maggie , drawing a book from under her shawl . 
`` Would n't you really like to be a tenth Muse , then , Maggie ? '' 
said Philip , looking up in her face as we look at a first parting in the clouds that promises us a bright heaven once more . 
`` Not at all , '' said Maggie , laughing . 
`` I did n't finish the book , '' said Maggie . 
`` Philip , that is not pretty of you , to apply my nonsense to anything real , '' said Maggie , looking hurt . 
`` Maggie , '' said Philip , with surprise , `` it is not like you to take playfulness literally . 
`` Well , '' said Maggie , smiling , `` if you meant that for a joke , it was a poor one ; but I thought it was a very good reproof . 
`` Then you would never have the heart to reject one yourself -- should you , Maggie ? '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Maggie , hesitatingly . 
`` I 've often wondered , Maggie , '' Philip said , with some effort , `` whether you would n't really be more likely to love a man that other women were not likely to love . '' 
`` That would depend on what they did n't like him for , '' said Maggie , laughing . 
`` But suppose , Maggie -- suppose it was a man who was not conceited -- who felt he had nothing to be conceited about -- who had been marked from childhood for a peculiar kind of suffering -- and to whom you were the day-star of his life -- who loved you , worshipped you , so entirely that he felt it happiness enough for him if you would let him see you at rare moments . 
Maggie 's manner this morning had been as unconstrained and indifferent as ever . 
But she was not looking indifferent now . 
Struck with the unusual emotion in Philip 's tone , she had turned quickly to look at him , and as he went on speaking , a great change came over her face -- a flush and slight spasm of the features such as we see in people who hear some news that will require them to readjust their conceptions of the past . 
She was quite silent , and , walking on towards the turnk of a fallen tree , she sat down , as if she had no strength to spare for her muscles . 
She was trembling . 
`` Maggie , '' said Philip , getting more and more alarmed in every fresh moment of silence , `` I was a fool to say it -- forget that I 've said it . 
The distress with which he spoke , urged Maggie to say something . 
`` Has it made you hate me , Maggie ? '' 
said Maggie , `` how can you think I have such feelings ? 
`` Then can you bear to think of me as your lover , Maggie ? '' 
said Philip , seating himself by her and taking her hand , in the elation of a sudden hope . 
Maggie turned rather pale : this direct question seemed not easy to answer . 
But her eyes met Philip 's , which were in this moment liquid and beautiful with beseeching love . 
She spoke with hesitation , yet with sweet , simple , girlish tenderness . 
She paused a little while , and then added , `` But it will be better for us not to say any more about it -- wo n't it , dear Philip ? 
`` But no evil has come , Maggie ; and if you had been guided by that fear before , you would only have lived through another dreary benumbing year , instead of reviving into your real self . '' 
Maggie shook her head . 
`` No , Maggie , you have wrong ideas of self-conquest , as I 've often told you . 
He had spoken with some irritation , but now he sat down by her again , and took her hand . 
`` Do n't think of the past now , Maggie ; think only of our love . 
Look at me , Maggie ; tell me again , it is possible for you to love me . 
She turned her large dark glance upon him with a sad smile . 
`` Come , Maggie , say one kind word , or else you were better to me at Lorton . 
The recollection of that childish time came as a sweet relief to Maggie . 
It made the present moment less strange to her . 
She kissed him almost as simply and quietly as she had done when she was twelve years old . 
`` You do n't seem happy enough , Maggie : you are forcing yourself to say you love me , out of pity . '' 
`` No , Philip , '' said Maggie , shaking her head , in her old childish way ; `` I 'm telling you the truth . 
`` No , Maggie : I will ask nothing -- I will bear everything -- I 'll wait another year only for a kiss , if you will only give me the first place in your heart . '' 
`` No , '' said Maggie , smiling , `` I wo n't make you wait so long as that . '' 
But then , looking serious again , she added , as she rose from her seat -- `` But what would your own father say , Philip ? 
`` No , Maggie , I ca n't give you up -- unless you are deceiving me -- unless you really only care for me as if I were your brother . 
They were walking hand in hand , looking at each other ; Maggie , indeed , was hurrying along , for she felt it time to be gone . 
But the sense that their parting was near , made her more anxious lest she should have unintentionally left some painful impression on Philip 's mind . 
`` Then my life will be filled with hope , Maggie -- and I shall be happier than other men , in spite of all ? 
Maggie smiled , with glistening tears , and then stooped her tall head to kiss the pale face that was full of pleading , timid love -- like a woman 's . 
Fear is almost always haunted by terrible dramatic scenes , which recur in spite of the best-argued probabilities against them ; and during a year that Maggie had had the burthen of concealment on her mind , the possibility of discovery had continually presented itself under the form of a sudden meeting with her father or Tom when she was walking with Philip in the Red Deeps . 
She was aware that this was not one of the most likely events ; but it was the scene that most completely symbolised her inward dread . 
Certainly one of the persons about whom Maggie 's fears were farthest from troubling themselves was her aunt Pullet , on whom , seeing that she did not live in St Ogg 's , and was neither sharp-eyed nor sharp-tempered , it would surely have been quite whimsical of them to fix rather than on aunt Glegg . 
She did not live at St Ogg 's , but the road from Garum Firs lay by the Red Deeps , at the end opposite that by which Maggie entered . 
The day after Maggie 's last meeting with Philip , being a Sunday on which Mr Pullet was bound to appear in funeral hat-band and scarf at St Ogg 's church , Mrs Pullet made this the occasion of dining with sister Glegg , and taking tea with poor sister Tulliver . 
He had been better pleased with Maggie since she had been less odd and ascetic ; he was even getting rather proud of her : several persons had remarked in his hearing that his sister was a very fine girl . 
said Mr Tulliver , jealous for Maggie , `` she 's a small thing , not much of a figure . 
This wide statement , by which Mrs Pullet represented the fact that she had twice seen Philip at the spot indicated , produced an effect on Maggie which was all the stronger because Tom sate opposite her , and she was intensely anxious to look indifferent . 
Gradually Maggie recovered composure enough to look up ; her eyes met Tom 's , but he turned away his head immediately ; and she went to bed that night wondering if he had gathered any suspicion from her confusion . 
Perhaps not : perhaps he would think it was only her alarm at her aunt 's mention of Wakem before her father : that was the interpretation her mother had put on it . 
To her father , Wakem was like a disfiguring disease , of which he was obliged to endure the consciousness , but was exasperated to have the existence recognised by others ; and no amount of sensitiveness in her about her father could be surprising , Maggie thought . 
But Tom was too keen-sighted to rest satisfied with such an interpretation : he had seen clearly enough that there was something distinct from anxiety about her father in Maggie 's excessive confusion . 
In trying to recall all the details that could give shape to his suspicions , he remembered only lately hearing his mother scold Maggie for walking in the Red Deeps when the ground was wet , and bringing home shoes clogged with red soil : still Tom , retaining all his old repulsion for Philip 's deformity , shrank from attributing to his sister the probability of feeling more than a friendly interest in such an unfortunate exception to the common run of men . 
The swiftest pace and the shortest road took him to the gate , and he was pausing to open it deliberately , that he might walk into the house with an appearance of perfect composure , when Maggie came out at the front door in bonnet and shawl . 
His conjecture was fulfilled , and he waited for her at the gate . 
She started violently when she saw him . 
Maggie spoke in a low tremulous voice . 
Maggie stood helpless -- pale and cold . 
At last she said , `` I 'm not going , '' and turned round . 
They walked in together , and Tom , entering the parlour , said to Maggie , `` Come in here . '' 
She obeyed , and he closed the door behind her . 
`` Now , Maggie , tell me this instant everything that has passed between you and Philip Wakem . '' 
said Maggie , still trembling . 
`` I do n't wish to use deceit , '' said Maggie , flushing into resentment at hearing this word applied to her conduct . 
`` You never do wrong , Tom , '' said Maggie , tauntingly . 
`` A year ago , '' said Maggie , quietly . 
Tom 's severity gave her a certain fund of defiance , and kept her sense of error in abeyance . 
said Tom , looking straight at her with his frown . 
Maggie paused a moment ; then , determined to make an end of Tom 's right to accuse her of deceit , she said , haughtily -- `` No , not quite all . 
At last , he looked up , and said , coldly -- `` Now , then , Maggie , there are but two courses for you to take ; either you vow solemnly to me , with your hand on my father 's Bible , that you will never have another meeting or speak another word in private with Philip Wakem , or you refuse , and I tell my father everything ; and this month , when by my exertions he might be made happy once more , you will cause him the blow of knowing that you are a disobedient , deceitful daughter , who throws away her own respectability by clandestine meetings with the son of a man that has helped to ruin her father . 
It was a crushing alternative to Maggie . 
`` Tom , '' she said , urged out of pride into pleading , `` do n't ask me that . 
`` I ca n't trust you , Maggie . 
said Maggie , clasping her hands , with a sudden flash of joy across her wretchedness . 
Maggie felt a deep movement of compunction : for the moment , her mind ceased to contend against what she felt to be cruel and unreasonable , and in her self-blame she justified her brother . 
`` Tom , '' she said , in a low voice , `` it was wrong of me -- but I was so lonely -- and I was sorry for Philip . 
Maggie laid her hand on the page of manuscript and repeated the promise . 
Maggie was suffering in anticipation of what Philip was about to suffer , and dreading the galling words that would fall on him from Tom 's lips ; but she felt it was in vain to attempt anything but submission . 
Tom had his terrible clutch on her conscience and her deepest dread : she writhed under the demonstrable truth of the character he had given to her conduct , and yet her whole soul rebelled against it as unfair from its incompleteness . 
Maggie 's only hope was that something might , for the first time , have prevented Philip from coming . 
Then there would be delay -- then she might get Tom 's permission to write to him . 
Her heart beat with double violence when they got under the Scotch firs . 
It was the last moment of suspense , she thought ; Philip always met her soon after she got beyond them . 
There was a moment 's silence , in which Philip darted a look of inquiry at Maggie 's face . 
Her imagination , always rushing extravagantly beyond an immediate impression , saw her tall strong brother grasping the feeble Philip bodily , crushing him and trampling on him . 
`` Tom , I will not bear it -- I will listen no longer , '' Maggie burst out in a convulsed voice . 
`` Stay , Maggie ! '' 
`` It was for my father 's sake , Philip , '' said Maggie , imploringly . 
`` It is enough , Maggie . 
`` Yes , '' said Tom , exasperated by this attitude of Philip 's , `` you can talk of seeking good for her and what belongs to her now : did you seek her good before ? '' 
But I wished her to have a friend for life -- who would cherish her , who would do her more justice than a coarse and narrow-minded brother , that she has always lavished her affections on . '' 
`` Yes , my way of befriending her is different from yours ; and I 'll tell you what is my way . 
I 'll save her from disobeying and disgracing her father : I 'll save her from throwing herself away on you -- from making herself a laughing-stock -- from being flouted by a man like your father , because she 's not good enough for his son . 
You know well enough what sort of justice and cherishing you were preparing for her . 
Come away , Maggie . '' 
He seized Maggie 's right wrist as he spoke , and she put out her left hand . 
Tom and Maggie walked on in silence for some yards . 
He was still holding her wrist tightly , as if he were compelling a culprit from the scene of action . 
At last Maggie , with a violent snatch , drew her hand away , and her pent-up , long-gathered irritation burst into utterance . 
`` I do n't want to defend myself , '' said Maggie , still with vehemence : `` I know I 've been wrong -- often , continually . 
Maggie went up to her own room to pour out all that indignant remonstrance , against which Tom 's mind was close barred , in bitter tears . 
Then , when the first burst of unsatisfied anger was gone by , came the recollection of that quiet time before the pleasure which had ended in to-day ' misery had perturbed the clearness and simplicity of her life . 
She used to think in that time that she had made great conquests , and won a lasting stand on serene heights above worldly temptations and conflict . 
And here she was down again in the thick of a hot strife with her own and other 's passions . 
Life was not so short , then , and perfect rest was not so near as she had dreamed when she was two years younger . 
There was more struggle for her -- perhaps more falling . 
If she had felt that she was entirely wrong , and that Tom had been entirely right , she could sooner have recovered more inward harmony ; but now her penitence and submission were constantly obstructed by resentment that would present itself to her no otherwise than as a just indignation . 
Her heart bled for Philip : she went on recalling the insults that had been flung at him with so vivid a conception of what he had felt under them , that it was almost like a sharp bodily pain to her , making her beat the floor with her foot , and tighten her fingers on her palm . 
And yet , how was it that she was now and then conscious of a certain dim background of relief in the forced separation from Philip ? 
The eyes in the parlour were not turned towards the bridge just then , and the group there was sitting in unexpectant silence -- Mr Tulliver in his armchair , tired with a long ride , and ruminating with a worn look , fixed chiefly on Maggie , who was bending over her sewing while her mother was making the tea . 
Hardly a word or look had passed between him and Maggie in all the three weeks ; but his usual incommunicativeness at home prevented this from being noticeable to their parents . 
`` Do n't go out of the room , mother , '' said Tom , as he saw her moving when his father was gone upstairs . 
`` And is n't Maggie to go ? '' 
`` Just as she likes , '' said Tom , indifferently . 
That was a cutting word to Maggie . 
Her heart had leaped with the sudden conviction that Tom was going to tell their father the debts could be paid -- and Tom would have let her be absent when that news was told ! 
But she carried away the tray , and came back immediately . 
The feeling of injury on her own behalf could not predominate at that moment . 
The mother and Maggie sat at the other end of the table , the one in blank patience , The other in palpitating expectation . 
A slight electric shock seemed to pass through Mr Tulliver , and he kept his eyes fixed on Tom with a look of eager inquiry , while Maggie , unable to restrain herself , rushed to her father 's side and knelt down by him . 
Both Tom and Maggie were struck with fear lest the shock of joy might even be fatal . 
Tom never lived to taste another moment so delicious as that ; and Maggie could n't help forgetting her own grievances . 
Tom was good ; and in the sweet humility that springs in us all in moments of true admiration and gratitude , she felt that the faults he had to pardon in her had never been redeemed , as his faults were . 
She felt no jealousy this evening that , for the first time , she seemed to be thrown into the background in her father 's mind . 
Slowly the lawyer rose , and , as he turned his head , saw that Tulliver 's arms were being held by a girl -- rather by the fear of hurting the girl that clung to him with all her young might . 
Maggie cried , as she heard the longed-for footsteps . 
said Maggie , imploringly . 
Then , seeing that Wakem had ridden off , and that no further violence was possible , she slackened her hold and burst into hysteric sobs , while poor Mrs Tulliver stood by in silence , quivering with fear . 
But Maggie became conscious that as she was slackening her hold , her father was beginning to grasp her and lean on her . 
The surprise checked her sobs . 
He seemed to be too faint and suffering to hear her ; but presently , when she said to Maggie , `` Go and see for somebody to fetch the doctor , '' he looked up at her with full comprehension , and said , `` Doctor ? 
Tom was dejected by the thought that his exemplary effort must always be baffled by the wrong-doing of others : Maggie was living through , over and over again , the agony of the moment in which she had rushed to throw herself on her father 's arm -- with a vague , shuddering foreboding of wretched scenes to come . 
`` My boy , you must get up this minute : I 've sent for the doctor , and your father wants you and Maggie to come to him . '' 
''' Maggie and Tom threw on their clothes hastily in the chill grey light , and reached their father 's room almost at the same moment . 
Maggie was at the bedside first , but her father 's glance was towards Tom , who came and stood next to her . 
... '' The father turned his eyes on Maggie with a still more eager look , while she , with a bursting heart , sank on her knees , to be closer to the dear , time-worn face which had been present with her through long years , as the sign of her deepest love and hardest trial . 
Kiss me , Maggie . 
`` But , father , dear father , '' said Maggie , an unspeakable anxiety predominating over her grief , `` You forgive him -- you forgive every one now ? '' 
He did not move his eyes to look at her , but he said -- `` No , my wench . 
Tom and Maggie went down-stairs together into the room where their father 's place was empty . 
Their eyes turned to the same spot , and Maggie spoke : `` Tom , forgive me -- let us always love each other . '' 
said Lucy , pausing in her work , `` it has just occurred to me that I have never found out whether my cousin Maggie will object to see Philip , as her brother does . 
Tom will not enter a room where Philip is , if he knows it : perhaps Maggie may be the same , and then we sha n't be able to sing our glees -- shall we ? '' 
She 's going to leave her situation , where she has been nearly two years , poor thing -- ever since her father 's death ; and she will stay with me a month or two -- many months , I hope . '' 
There is no girl in the world I love so well as my cousin Maggie . '' 
`` And you will be inseparable , I suppose , when she comes . 
There will be no possibility of a tte--tte with you any more , unless you can find an admirer for her , who will pair off with her occasionally . 
But Tom and Maggie must naturally feel it very painful to be reminded of these things . 
Maggie was at school with me six years ago , when she was fetched away because of her father 's misfortunes , and she has hardly had any pleasure since , I think . 
She has been in a dreary situation in a school since uncle 's death , because she is determined to be independent , and not live with aunt Pullet ; and I could hardly wish her to come to me then , because dear mamma was ill , and everything was so sad . 
That is why I want her to come to me now , and have a long , long holiday . '' 
`` Very sweet and angelic of you , '' said Stephen , looking at her with an admiring smile ; `` and all the more so if she has the conversational qualities of her mother . '' 
You are cruel to ridicule her . 
She is very valuable to me , I know . 
She manages the house beautifully -- much better than any stranger would -- and she was a great comfort to me in mamma 's illness . '' 
`` Yes , but in point of companionship , one would prefer that she should be represented by her brandycherries and cream-cakes . 
I think with a shudder that her daughter will always be present in person , and have no agreeable proxies of that kind -- a fat , blonde girl , with round blue eyes , who will stare at us silently . '' 
exclaimed Lucy , lanughing wickedly and clapping her hands , `` that is just my cousin Maggie . 
You must have seen her ! '' 
I think I will ask you to call on Philip and tell him Maggie is coming tomorrow . 
`` But it is really odd that you should have hit so exactly on Maggie 's appearance and manners , '' said the cunning Lucy , moving to reach her desk , `` because she might have been like her brother , you know ; and Tom has not round eyes ; and he is as far as possible from staring at people . '' 
Come and be introduced to my cousin Maggie -- though you can hardly be said not to have seen her , you have described her so well . '' 
Even now , her mind , with that instantaneous alternation which makes two currents of feeling or imagination seem simultaneous , is glancing continually from Stephen to the preparations she has only half finished in Maggie 's room . 
Cousin Maggie should be treated as well as the grandest lady visitor -- nay , better , for she should have Lucy 's best prints and drawings in her bedroom , and the very finest bouquet of spring flowers on her table . 
Maggie would enjoy all that -- she was so fond of pretty things ! 
And there was poor aunt Tulliver , that no one made any account of -- she was to be surprised with the present of a cap of superlative quality , and to have her health drunk in a gratifying manner , for which Lucy was going to lay a plot with her father this evening . 
`` He is very clever , Maggie , '' said Lucy . 
She was kneeling on a footstool at Maggie 's feet , after placing that dark lady in the large crimson-velvet chair . 
`` I shall be very difficult to please , '' said Maggie , smiling , and holding up one of Lucy 's long curls , that the sunlight might shine through it . 
But I can never doubt it when he is with me -- though I could n't bear any one but you to know that I feel in that way , Maggie . '' 
`` Oh , then , if I disapprove of him , you can give him up , since you are not engaged , '' said Maggie , with playful gravity . 
When people are engaged , they begin to think of being married soon , '' said Lucy , too thoroughly preoccupied to notice Maggie 's joke ; `` and I should like everything to go on for a long while just as it is . 
`` But people are not expected to be large in proportion to the houses they live in , like snails , '' said Maggie , laughing . 
Lucy rose from her knees and went to a little distance , holding her pretty head on one side , as if she had been arranging Maggie for a portrait , and wished to judge of the general effect . 
`` Stand up a moment , Maggie . '' 
said Maggie , smiling languidly as she rose from her chair and looked down on her slight , arial cousin , whose figure was quite subordinate to her faultless drapery of silk and crape . 
Lucy kept her contemplative attitude a moment or two in silence , and then said -- `` I ca n't think what witchery it is in you , Maggie , that makes you look best in shabby clothes ; though you really must have a new dress now . 
`` O , quite , '' said Maggie , with mock gravity . 
Then , with an air of serious reflection , unfastening her large jet brooch , `` But you must change brooches , Maggie ; that little butterfly looks silly on you . '' 
said Maggie , seating herself submissively , while Lucy knelt again and unfastened the contemptible butterfly . 
Maggie gave a little sigh . 
`` Now , do n't put on that sad look again , '' said Lucy , pinning the large brooch below Maggie 's fine throat . 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie . 
`` But I shall put you under a discipline of pleasure that will make you lose that bad habit , '' said Lucy , sticking the black butterfly absently in her own collar , while her eyes met Maggie 's affectionately . 
`` You dear , tiny thing , '' said Maggie , in one of her bursts of loving admiration , `` you enjoy other people 's happiness so much , I believe you would do without any of your own . 
You have been tried , Maggie ; and I 'm sure you feel for other people quite as much as I do . '' 
`` No , Lucy , '' said Maggie , shaking her head slowly , `` I do n't enjoy their happiness as you do -- else I should be more contented . 
`` Now , Maggie ! '' 
`` Well , perhaps it is , '' said Maggie , resolutely clearing away the clouds from her face with a bright smile , and throwing herself backward in her chair . 
Maggie took up the `` Sketch Book , '' which lay by her on the table . 
Lucy hurried out of the room , but Maggie did not take the opportunity of opening her book : she let it fall on her knees , while her eyes wandered to the window , where she could see the sunshine falling on the rich clumps of spring flowers and on the long hedge of laurels -- and beyond , the silvery breadth of the dear old Floss , that at this distance seemed to be sleeping in a morning holiday . 
Yet Maggie 's eyes began to fill with tears . 
The sight of the old scenes had made the rush of memories so painful , that even yesterday she had only been able to rejoice in her mother 's restored comfort and Tom 's brotherly friendliness as we rejoice in good news of friends at a distance , rather than in the presence of a happiness which we share . 
Memory and imagination urged upon her a sense of privation too keen to let her taste what was offered in the transient present : her future , she thought , was likely to be worse than her past , for after her years of contented renunciation , she had slipped back into desire and longing : she found joyless days of distasteful occupation harder and harder -- she found the image of the intense and varied life she yearned for , and despaired of , becoming more and more importunate . 
The sound of the opening door roused her , and , hastily wiping away her tears , she began to turn over the leaves of her book . 
`` There is one pleasure , I know , Maggie , that your deepest dismalness will never resist , '' said Lucy , beginning to speak as soon as she entered the room . 
`` You would have laughed to see me playing the little girls ' tunes over and over to them , when I took them to practice , '' said Maggie , `` just for the sake of fingering the dear keys again . 
`` I should have thought there was nothing you might be more certain of , '' said Maggie , smiling . 
Lucy had looked up from her work as she uttered the last sentence , and saw that there was a change in Maggie 's face . 
`` Does it hurt you to hear the name mentioned , Maggie ? 
`` I do n't feel at all as Tom does on that subject , '' said Maggie , rising and going to the window as if she wanted to see more of the landscape . 
`` But , Lucy , '' said Maggie , trying to arrest the prattling stream . 
That must be Stephen , '' Lucy went on , not noticing Maggie 's faint effort to speak . 
It was too late for Maggie to speak now : the drawing-room door was opening , and Minny was already growling in a small way at the entrance of a tall gentleman , who went up to Lucy and took her hand with a half-polite , half-tender glance and tone of inquiry , which seemed to indicate that he was unconscious of any other presence . 
`` Let me introduce you to my cousin , Miss Tulliver , '' said Lucy , turning with wicked enjoyment towards Maggie , who now approached from the farther window . 
For one instant Stephen could not conceal his astonishment at the sight of this tall dark-eyed nymph with her jet-black coronet of hair ; the next , Maggie felt herself , for the first time in her life , receiving the tribute of a very deep blush and a very deep bow from a person towards whom she herself was conscious of timidity . 
This new experience was very agreeable to her -- so agreeable , that it almost effaced her previous emotion about Philip . 
There was a new brightness in her eyes , and a very becoming flush on her cheek , as she seated herself . 
`` This designing cousin of yours quite deceived me , Miss Tulliver , '' said Stephen , seating himself by Lucy , and stooping to play with Minny -- only looking at Maggie furtively . 
`` Now you have proved yourself equal to the occasion , '' said Maggie , `` and said what it was incumbent on you to say under the circumstances . '' 
She flashed a slightly defiant look at him : it was clear to her that he had been drawing a satirical portrait of her beforehand . 
Lucy had said he was inclined to be satirical , and Maggie had mentally supplied the addition -- `` and rather conceited . '' 
The second , when she had bent over her work , was , `` I wish she would look at me again . '' 
`` No , '' said Maggie , looking at him with her direct glance ; `` if we use common words on a great occasion , they are the more striking , because they are felt at once to have a particular meaning , like old banners , or everyday clothes , hung up in a sacred place . '' 
`` Then my compliment ought to be eloquent , '' said Stephen , really not quite knowing what he said while Maggie looked at him , `` seeing that the words were so far beneath the occasion . '' 
`` No compliment can be eloquent , except as an expression of indifference , '' said Maggie , flushing a little . 
Lucy was rather alarmed : she thought Stephen and Maggie were not going to like each other . 
She had always feared lest Maggie should appear too odd and clever to please that critical gentleman . 
`` Why , dear Maggie , '' she interposed , `` you have always pretended that you are too fond of being admired , and now , I think , you are angry because some one ventures to admire you . '' 
`` Not at all , '' said Maggie ; `` I like too well to feel that I am admired , but compliments never make me feel that . '' 
Poor Maggie ! 
I see you are not addicted to the fashionable vice of fancy-work , Miss Tulliver , '' said Stephen , looking at Maggie 's plain hemming . 
`` No , '' said Maggie , `` I can do nothing more difficult or more elegant than shirt-making . '' 
`` And your plain sewing is so beautiful , Maggie , '' said Lucy , `` that I think I shall beg a few specimens of you to show as fancy-work . 
`` It is a mystery easily explained , dear , '' said Maggie , looking up quietly . 
Lucy , good and simple as she was , could not help blushing a little : she did not quite like that Stephen should know that -- Maggie need not have mentioned it . 
But if Maggie had been the queen of coquettes she could hardly have invented a means of giving greater piquancy to her beauty in Stephen 's eyes : I am not sure that the quiet admission of plain sewing and poverty would have done alone , but assisted by the beauty , they made Maggie more unlike other women even than she had seemed at first . 
`` But I can knit , Lucy , '' Maggie went on , `` if that will be of any use for your bazaar . '' 
`` That is beautiful , '' said Maggie , who had let her work fall , and was listening with keen interest . 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie , smiling , but not looking up ; `` so much fluency and self-possession should not be wasted entirely on private occasions . '' 
He was rewarded by seeing Maggie let her work fall , and gradually get so absorbed in his wonderful geological story that she sat looking at him , leaning forward with crossed arms , and with an entire absence of self-consciousness , as if he had been the snuffiest of old professors , and she a downy-lipped alumnus . 
He was so fascinated by this clear , large gaze , that at last he forgot to look away from it occasionally towards Lucy ; but she , sweet child , was only rejoicing that Stephen was proving to Maggie how clever he was , and that they would certainly be good friends after all . 
`` O , thank you , '' said Maggie , blushing with returning self-consciousness at this direct address , and taking up her work again . 
`` I must forbid your plunging Maggie in books . 
I shall never get her away from them ; and I want her to have delicious do-nothing days , filled with boating , and chatting , and riding , and driving : that is the holiday she needs . '' 
That was a delightful proposition to Maggie , for it was years since she had been on the river . 
When she was gone to put on her bonnet , Lucy lingered to give an order to the servant , and took the opportunity of telling Stephen that Maggie had no objection to seeing Philip , so that it was a pity she had sent that note the day befor yesterday . 
But she would write another tomorrow and invite him . 
`` And you will like Maggie , sha n't you ? '' 
`` Is n't she a dear , noble-looking creature ? '' 
She is not my type of woman , you know . '' 
And hardly anything could be more distinctively characteristic of Lucy , than that she both implicitly believed what Stephen said , and was determined that Maggie should not know it . 
But you , who have a higher logic than the verbal to guide you , have already foreseen , as the direct sequence to that unfavourable opinion of Stephen 's , that he walked down to the boat-house calculating , by the aid of a vivid imagination , that Maggie must give him her hand at least twice in consequence of this pleasant boating plan , and that a gentleman who wishes ladies to look at him is advantageously situated when he is rowing them in a boat . 
Maggie did not fulfil Stephen 's hope by looking at him during the first quarter of an hour : her eyes were too full of the old banks that she knew so well . 
She felt lonely , cut off from Philip -- the only person who had ever seemed to love her devotedly , as she had always longed to be loved . 
But presently the rhythmic movement of the oars attracted her , and she thought she should like to learn how to row . 
This roused her from her reverie , and she asked if she might take an oar . 
It appeared that she required much teaching , and she became ambitious . 
The exercise brought the warm blood into her cheeks , and made her inclined to take her lesson merrily . 
`` I shall not be satisfied until I can manage both oars , and row you and Lucy , '' she said , looking very bright as she stepped out of the boat . 
Maggie , we know , was apt to forget the thing she was doing , and she had chosen an inopportune moment for her remark : her foot slipped , but happily Mr Stephen Guest held her hand , and kept her up with a firm grasp . 
he said , bending to look in her face with anxiety . 
Maggie had never felt just in the same way before . 
`` I want Maggie to hear your best songs . '' 
Aunt Pullet , under the certainty that Maggie would be invited to go out with Lucy , probably to Park House , was much shocked at the shabbiness of her clothes , which , when witnessed by the higher society of St Ogg 's , would be a discredit to the family , that demanded a strong and prompt remedy ; and the consultation as to what would be most suitable to this end from among the superfluities of Mrs Pullet 's wardrobe , was one that Lucy as well as Mrs Tulliver entered into with some zeal . 
Maggie must really have an evening dress as soon as possible , and she was about the same height as aunt Pullet . 
`` But she 's so much broader across the shoulders than I am -- it 's very ill-convenient , '' said Mrs Pullet , `` else she might wear that beautiful black brocade o ' mine without any alteration ; and her arms are beyond everything , '' added Mrs Pullet , sorrowfully , as she lifted Maggie 's large round arm . 
`` She 'd never get my sleeves on . '' 
`` I do n't mean Maggie to have long sleeves , and I have abundance of black lace for trimming . 
Her arms will look beautiful . '' 
`` Maggie 's arms are a pretty shape , '' said Mrs Tulliver . 
A painter would think Maggie 's complexion beautiful . '' 
said Maggie , laughing , but impatient ; `` I think that will be the end of my brown skin , if it is always to be talked about so much . '' 
When Maggie went up to her bedroom that night , it appeared that she was not all inclined to undress . 
She set down her candle on the first table that presented itself , and began to walk up and down her room , which was a large one , with a firm , regular , and rather rapid step , which showed that the exercise was the instinctive vent of strong excitement . 
Her eyes and cheeks had an almost feverish brilliancy her head was thrown backward , and her hands were clasped with the palms outward , and with that tension of the arms which is apt to accompany mental absorption . 
She had been hearing some fine music sung by a fine bass voice -- but then it was sung in a provincial , amateur fashion , such as would have left your critical ear much to desire . 
And she was conscious of having been looked at a great deal , in rather a furtive manner , from beneath a pair of well-marked horizontal eyebrows , with a glance that seemed somehow to have caught the vibratory influence of the voice . 
But if Maggie had been that young lady , you would probably have known nothing about her : her life would have had so few vicissitudes that it could hardly have been written ; for the happiest women , like the happiest nations , have no history . 
In poor Maggie 's highly-strung , hungry nature -- just come away from a third-rate schoolroom , with all its jarring sounds and petty round of tasks -- these apparently trivial causes had the effect of rousing and exalting her imagination in a way that was mysterious to herself . 
It was not that she thought distinctly of Mr Stephen Guest , or dwelt on the indications that he looked at her with admiration ; it was rather that she felt the half-remote presence of a world of love and beauty and delight , made up of vague , mingled images from all the poetry and romance she had ever read , or had ever woven in her dreamy reveries . 
Her mind glanced back once or twice to the time when she had courted privation , when she had thought all longing , all impatience , was subdued ; but that condition seemed irrecoverably gone , and she recoiled from the remembrance of it . 
No prayer , no striving now , would bring back that negative peace : the battle of her life , it seemed , was not to be decided in that short and easy way -- by perfect renunciation at the very threshold of her youth . 
The music was vibrating in her still -- Purcell 's music , with its wild passion and fancy -- and she could not stay in the recollection of that bare , lonely past . 
She was in her brighter arial world again , when a little tap came at the door : of course it was her cousin , who entered in ample white dressing-gown . 
`` Why , Maggie , you naughty child , have n't you begun to undress ? '' 
`` Well , you are not very forward , '' retorted Maggie , hastily reaching her own pink cotton gown , and looking at Lucy 's light-brown hair brushed back in curly disorder . 
While Maggie stood and unplaited her long black hair over her pink drapery , Lucy sat down near the toilette-table , watching her with affectionate eyes , and head a little aside , like a pretty spaniel . 
`` You really have enjoyed the music to-night , have n't you , Maggie ? '' 
`` Well , perhaps we are neither of us judges of that , '' said Maggie , laughing , as she seated herself and tossed her long hair back . 
`` Nonsense , Maggie ! 
Maggie pinched Lucy 's dimpled chin . 
`` O Lucy , I ca n't see him , '' said Maggie , turning pale . 
`` But , dear , '' said Maggie , falteringly , `` I promised Tom very solemnly -- before my father 's death -- I promised him I would not speak to Philip without his knowledge and consent . 
`` O no , pray do n't , dear , '' said Maggie . 
They were both silent for some moments , and then Lucy said -- `` Maggie , you have secrets from me , and I have none from you . '' 
Maggie looked meditatively away from Lucy . 
Then she turned to her and said , `` I should like to tell you about Philip . 
The narrative lasted long , for Maggie had never before known the relief of such an outpouring : she had never before told Lucy anything of her inmost life ; and the sweet face bent towards her with sympathetic interest , and the little hand pressing hers , encouraged her to speak on . 
`` There , Lucy , you have had my story , '' said Maggie , smiling , with the tears in her eyes . 
She mused a little with her eyes downward , and then added , looking at Maggie , `` It is very beautiful that you should love Philip : I never thought such a happiness would befall him . 
Maggie shook her head . 
Would n't that be a pretty ending to all my poor , poor Maggie 's troubles ? '' 
Maggie tried to smile , but shivered , as if she felt a sudden chill . 
Maggie had been thoroughly sincere : her nature had never found it easy to be otherwise . 
Maggie was obliged to go to Tom 's lodgings in the middle of the day , when he would be coming in to dinner , else she would not have found him at home . 
It was Bob 's wife who opened the door to Maggie . 
She was a tiny woman , with the general physiognomy of a Dutch doll , looking , in comparison with Bob 's mother , who filled up the passage in the rear , very much like one of those human figures which the artist finds conveniently standing near a colossal statue to show the proportions . 
The tiny woman curtsied and looked up at Maggie with some awe as soon as she had opened the door ; but the words , `` Is my brother at home ? '' 
which Maggie uttered smilingly , made her turn round with sudden excitement , and say -- `` Eh , mother , mother -- tell Bob ! 
Come in , Miss , for goodness do , '' she want on , opening a side-door , and endeavouring to flatten her person against the wall to make the utmost space for the visitor . 
Sad recollections crowded on Maggie as she entered the small parlour , which was now all that poor Tom had to call by the name of `` home '' -- that name which had once , so many years ago , meant for both of them the same sum of dear familiar objects . 
But everything was not strange to her in this new room : the first thing her eyes dwelt on was the large old Bible , and the sight was not likely to disperse the old memories . 
She stood without speaking . 
`` If you please to take the privilege o ' sitting down , Miss , '' said Mrs Jakin , rubbing her apron over a perfectly clean chair , and then lifting up the corner of that garment and holding it to her face with an air of embarrassment , as she looked wonderingly at Maggie . 
said Maggie , recovering herself , and smiling at the bashful Dutch doll . 
said Maggie , coming forward and putting out her hand to him ; `` I always meant to pay your wife a visit , and I shall come another day on purpose for that , if she will let me . 
Though there is n't many sorts o ' goods as I ca n't over-praise when I set my tongue to ` t. '' Mrs Bob 's small nose seemed to be following the example of her eyes in turning up reverentially towards Maggie , but she was able now to smile and curtsy , and say , `` I 'd looked forrard like aenything to seein ' you , Miss , for my husband 's tongue 's been runnin ' on you , like as if he was light-headed , iver since first he come a-courtin ' on me . '' 
`` I hope Mumps is friendly with Mrs Jakin , Bob , '' said Maggie , smiling . 
`` He thinks so much about business , '' said Maggie . 
`` I 'm afraid I have very little power over him , Bob , '' said Maggie , a good deal moved by Bob 's suggestion . 
It was a totally new idea to her mind , that Tom could have his love troubles . 
`` There 's no time to spare , Tom , '' said Maggie , as soon as Bob had left the room . 
Tom stood with his back against the chimney-piece , and Maggie was seated opposite the light . 
He noticed that she was tremulous , and he had a presentiment of the subject she was going to speak about . 
This tone roused a spirit of resistance in Maggie , and she put her request in quite a different form from the one she had predetermined on . 
She rose from her seat , and , looking straight at Tom , said -- `` I want you to absolve me from my promise about Philip Wakem . 
But Maggie had hardly finished speaking in that chill , defiant manner , before she repented , and felt the dread of alienation from her brother . 
Tom looked away from Maggie , knitting his brow more strongly for a little while . 
Then he turned to her and said , slowly and emphatically -- `` You know what is my feeling on that subject , Maggie . 
But I have no confidence in you , Maggie . 
Maggie 's lip began to tremble . 
She was obliged to be childish -- the tears would come . 
When Maggie was not angry , she was as dependent on kind or cold words as a daisy on the sunshine or the cloud : the need of being loved would always subdue her , as in old days it subdued her in the worm-eaten attic . 
He put his hand gently on her arm , and said in the tone of a kind pedagogue -- `` Now listen to me , Maggie . 
`` Yes -- I know -- dear Tom , '' said Maggie , still half-sobbing , but trying to control her tears . 
Maggie always writhed under this judgment of Tom 's : she rebelled and was humiliated in the same moment : it seemed as if he held a glass before her to show her her own folly and weakness -- as if he were a prophetic voice predicting her future fallings -- and yet , all the while , she judged him in return : she said inwardly that he was narrow and unjust , that he was below feeling those mental needs which were often the source of the wrong-doing or absurdity that made her life a planless riddle to him . 
She did not answer directly : her heart was too full , and she sat down , leaning her arm on the table . 
It was no use trying to make Tom feel that she was near to him . 
He always repelled her . 
Her feeling under his words was complicated by the allusion to the last scene between her father and Wakem ; and at length that painful , solemn memory surmounted the immediate grievance . 
She did not think of such things with frivolous indifference , and Tom must not accuse her of that . 
She looked up at him with a grave , earnest gaze , and said -- `` I ca n't make you think better of me , Tom , by anything I can say . 
`` Well , Maggie , '' said Tom , softening under this appeal , `` I do n't want to overstrain matters . 
There was a little tremor in Tom 's voice as he uttered the last words , and Maggie 's ready affection came back with as sudden a glow as when they were children , and bit their cake together as a sacrament of conciliation . 
She rose and laid her hand on Tom 's shoulder . 
`` No , Maggie . '' 
Tom bent to kiss her cheek , and then said -- `` There ! 
`` I 'm frightened -- I shall run away , '' said Maggie , making a laughing retreat ; while Tom , with masculine philosophy , flung the bell-rope to the farther end of the room -- not very far either : a touch of human experience which I flatter myself will come home to the bosoms of not a few substantial or distinguished men who were once at an early stage of their rise in the world , and were cherishing very large hopes in very small lodgings . 
It is evident to you now , that Maggie had arrived at a moment in her life which must be considered by all prudent persons as a great opportunity for a young woman . 
Launched into the higher society of St Ogg 's , with a striking person which had the advantage of being quite unfamiliar to the majority of beholders , and with such moderate assistance of costume as you have seen foreshadowed in Lucy 's anxious colloquy with aunt Pullet , Maggie was certainly at a new starting-point in life . 
In fact , poor Maggie , with all her inward consciousness of a painful past and her presentiment of a troublous future , was on the way to become an object of some envy -- a topic of discussion in the newly-established billiard-room , and between fair friends who had no secrets from each other on the subject of trimmings . 
The Miss Guests , who associated chiefly on terms of condescension with the families of St Ogg 's , and were the glass of fashion there , took some exception to Maggie 's manners . 
She had a way of not assenting at once to the observations current in good society , and of saying that she did n't know whether those observations were true or not , which gave her an air of gaucherie , and impeded the even flow of conversation ; but it is a fact capable of an amiable interpretation , that ladies are not the worse disposed towards a new acquaintance of their own sex because she has points of inferiority . 
And Maggie was so entirely without those pretty airs of coquetry which have the traditional reputation of driving gentlemen to despair , that she won some feminine pity for being so ineffective in spite of her beauty . 
She had not had many advantages , poor thing ! 
and it must be admitted there was no pretension about her : her abruptness and unevenness of manner were plainly the result of her secluded and lowly circumstances . 
It was only a wonder that there was no tinge of vulgarity about her , considering what the rest of poor Lucy 's relations were : an allusion which always made the Miss Guests shudder a little . 
Thus Maggie was introduced for the first time to the young lady 's life , and knew what it was to get up in the morning without any imperative reason for doing one thing more than another . 
This new sense of leisure and unchecked enjoyment amidst the soft-breathing airs and garden-scents of advancing spring , -- amidst the new abundance of music , and lingering strolls in the sunshine , and delicious dreaminess of gliding on the river , -- could hardly be without some intoxicating effect on her , after her years of privation ; and even in the first week Maggie began to be less haunted by her sad memories and anticipations . 
Life was certainly very pleasant just now : it was becoming very pleasant to dress in the evening , and to feel that she was one of the beautiful things of this spring-time . 
And there were admiring eyes always awaiting her now ; she was no longer an unheeded person , liable to be chid , from whom attention was continually claimed , and on whom on one felt bound to confer any . 
The mere concord of octaves was a delight to Maggie , and she would often take up a book of studies rather than any melody , that she might taste more keenly by abstraction the more primitive sensation of intervals . 
Not that her enjoyment of music was of the kind that indicates a great specific talent ; it was rather that her sensibility to the supreme excitement of music was only one form of that passionate sensibility which belonged to her whole nature , and made her faults and virtues all merge in each other -- made her affections sometimes an impatient demand , but also prevented her vanity from taking the form of mere feminine coquetry and device , and gave it the poetry of ambition . 
But you have known Maggie a long while , and need to be told , not her characteristics , but her history , which is a thing hardly to be predicted even from the completest knowledge of characteristics . 
`` Character , '' says Novalis , in one of his questionable aphorisms -- `` character is destiny . '' 
Maggie 's destiny , then , is at present hidden , and we must wait for it to reveal itself like the course of an unmapped river : we only know that the river is full and rapid , and that for all rivers there is the same final home . 
Under the charm of her new pleasures , Maggie herself was ceasing to think , with her eager prefiguring imagination , of her future lot ; and her anxiety about her first interview with Philip was losing its predominance : perhaps , unconsciously to herself , she was not sorry that the interview had been deferred . 
It was not until the twelfth day that he returned , to find both Lucy 's notes awaiting him : he had left before he knew of Maggie 's arrival . 
Perhaps one had need be nineteen again to be quite convinced of the feelings that were crowded for Maggie into those twelve days -- of the length to which they were stretched for her by the novelty of her experience in them , and the varying attitudes of her mind . 
Lucy was very happy : all the happier because Stephen 's society seemed to have become much more interesting and amusing since Maggie had been there . 
Playful discussions -- sometimes serious ones -- were going forward , in which both Stephen and Maggie revealed themselves , to the admiration of the gentle unobtrusive Lucy ; and it more than once crossed her mind what a charming quartet they should have through life when Maggie married Philip . 
Is it an inexplicable thing that a girl should enjoy her lover 's society the more for the presence of a third person , and be without the slightest spasm of jealousy that the third person had the conversation habitually directed to her ? 
His personal attentions to Maggie were comparatively slight , and there had even sprung up an apparent distance between them , that prevented the renewal of that faint resemblance to gallantry into which he had fallen the first day in the boat . 
If Stephen came in when Lucy was out of the room -- if Lucy left them together , they never spoke to each other : Stephen , perhaps , seemed to be examining books or music , and Maggie bent her head assiduously over her work . 
Maggie only felt that life was revealing something quite new to her ; and she was absorbed in the direct , immediate experience , without any energy left for taking account of it , and reasoning about it Stephen wilfully abstained from self-questioning , and would not admit to himself that he felt an influence which was to have any determining effect on his conduct . 
And when Lucy came into the room again , they were once more unconstrained : Maggie could contradict Stephen and laugh at him , and he could recommend to her consideration the example of that most charming heroine , Miss Sophia Western , who had a great `` respect for the understandings of men . '' 
Maggie could look at Stephen -- which , for some reason or other , she always avoided when they were alone ; and he could even ask her to play his accompaniment for him , since Lucy 's fingers were so busy with that bazaar-work ; and lecture her on hurrying the tempo , which was certainly Maggie 's weak point . 
Maggie was seated in the drawing-room alone , shortly after dinner , with Minny on her lap , having left her uncle to his wine and his nap , and her mother to the compromise between knitting and nodding , which , when there was no company , she always carried on in the dining-room till tea-time . 
Maggie was stooping to caress the tiny silken pet , and comforting him for his mistress 's absence , when the sound of a footstep on the gravel made her look up , and she saw Mr Stephen Guest walking up the garden , as if he had come straight from the river . 
Maggie felt her cheeks glowing and her heart beating : it was natural she should be nervous , for she was not accustomed to receive visitors alone . 
He had seen her look up through the open window , and raised his hat as he walked towards it , to enter that way instead of by the door . 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie , who had risen confusedly with Minny in her arms , and now , not quite knowing what else to do , sat down again . 
Stephen laid down his hat , with the music , which rolled on the floor , and sat down in the chair close by her . 
He had never done so before , and both he and Maggie were quite aware that it was an entirely new position . 
said Stephen , leaning to pull the long curly ears that drooped over Maggie 's arm . 
Yet it was very pleasant : he only wished he dared look at Maggie , and that she would look at him , -- let him have one long look into those deep strange eyes of hers , and then he would be satisfied , and quite reasonable after that . 
He thought it was becoming a sort of monomania with him , to want that long look from Maggie ; and he was racking his invention continually to find out some means by which he could have it without its appearing singular and entailing subsequent embarrassment . 
As for Maggie , she had no distinct thought -- only the sense of a presence like that of a closely-hovering broad-winged bird in the darkness , for she was unable to look up , and saw nothing but Minny 's black wavy coat . 
Stephen at last sat upright sideways in his chair , leaning one hand and arm over the back and looking at Maggie . 
`` I do n't know , '' said Maggie . 
Then , courageously raising her eyes and looking out of the window , `` If I 'm not playing cribbage with my uncle . '' 
A rather arch look came over Maggie 's face , and , just glancing at Stephen , she said , `` Would it be quite civil to say yes ? '' 
Another pause , during which Maggie looked steadily out of the window , till by a great effort she moved her head to look down at Minny 's back again , and said -- `` I wish Lucy had not been obliged to go out . 
Maggie gave a little start -- it seemed hardly more than a vibration that passed from head to foot in an instant . 
But the new images summoned by Philip 's name , dispersed half the oppressive spell she had been under . 
She rose from her chair with a sudden resolution , and , laying Minny on his cushion , went to reach Lucy 's large work-basket from its corner . 
Stephen was vexed and disappointed : he thought , perhaps Maggie did n't like the name of Wakem to be mentioned to her in that abrupt way -- for he now recalled what Lucy had told him of the family quarrel . 
Maggie was seating herself at the table with her work , and looking chill and proud ; and he -- he looked like a simpleton for having come . 
Of course it was palpable to Maggie 's thinking , that he had dined hastily in his own room for the sake of setting off again and finding her alone . 
At this moment Maggie 's ball of knitting-wool rolled along the ground , and she started up to reach it . 
Stephen rose too , and , picking up the ball , met her with a vexed complaining look that gave his eyes quite a new expression to Maggie , whose own eyes met them as he presented the ball to her . 
Maggie thought she had perhaps been rude . 
she said timidly , not looking away , for that would have seemed rude again . 
-LRB- Maggie did not notice Philip 's name this time . -RRB- 
said Stephen , in a still gentler tone , but the next moment he was vexed that she did not say , `` No , '' for she moved away now towards the open window , and he was obliged to take his hat and walk by her side . 
Either on that ground or some other , Maggie took the arm . 
And they walked together round the grass-plot and under the drooping green of the laburnums ; in the same dim dreamy state as they had been in a quarter of an hour before ; only that Stephen had had the look he longed for , without yet perceiving in himself the symptoms of returning reasonableness , and Maggie had darting thoughts across the dimness : -- how came she to be there ? 
-- why had she come out ? 
`` O , I will go in now , '' said Maggie , feeling that the step had come like a rescue . 
In an instant she had withdrawn her arm , and was running back to the house . 
She did not reflect that this sudden action would only add to the embarrassing recollections of the last half-hour . 
She had no thought left for that . 
She only threw herself into the low armchair , and burst into tears . 
Stephen looked after her a moment , then went on to the boat , and was soon landed at the wharf . 
He was determined not to think -- not to admit any more distinct remembrance than was urged upon him by the perpetual presence of Maggie . 
He was looking at her , and she was on his arm . 
But there came the necessity of walking home in the cool starlight , and with it the necessity of cursing his own folly , and bitterly determining that he would never trust himself alone with Maggie again . 
He wished he had never seen this Maggie Tulliver , to be thrown into a fever by her in this way : she would make a sweet , strange , troublesome , adorable wife to some man or other , but he would never have chosen her himself . 
Did she feel as he did ? 
He hoped she did -- not . 
He would make himself disagreeable to her -- quarrel with her perhaps . 
Quarrel with her ? 
Maggie made no answer , She was angry with Stephen : she began to think she should dislike him ; and if it had not been for the rain , she would have gone to her aunt Glegg 's this morning , and so have avoided him altogether . 
As it was , she must find some reason for remaining out of the room with her mother . 
When Philip entered the room , he was going merely to bow to Maggie , feeling that their acquaintance was a secret which he was bound not to betray ; but when she advanced towards him and put out her hand , he guessed at once that Lucy had been taken into her confidence . 
But Maggie , who had little more power of concealing the impressions made upon her than if she had been constructed of musical strings , felt her eyes getting larger with tears as they took each other 's hands in silence . 
For Philip , who a little while ago was associated continually in Maggie 's mind with the sense that Tom might reproach her with some justice , had now , in this short space , become a sort of outward conscience to her , that she might fly to for rescue and strength . 
Her tranquil , tender affection for Philip , with its root deep down in her childhood , and its memories of long quiet talk confirming by distinct successive impressions the first instinctive bias -- the fact that in him the appeal was more strongly to her pity and womanly devotedness than to her vanity or other egoistic excitability of her nature , seemed now to make a sort of sacred place , a sanctuary where she could find refuge from an alluring influence which the best part of herself must resist , which must bring horrible tumult within , wretchedness without . 
This new sense of her relation to Philip multiplied the anxious scruples she would otherwise have felt , lest she should overstep the limit of intercourse with him that Tom would sanction ; and she put out her hand to him , and felt the tears in her eyes without any consciousness of an inward check . 
The scene was just what Lucy expected , and her kind heart delighted in bringing Philip and Maggie together again ; though , even with all her regard for Philip , she could not resist the impression that her cousin Tom had some excuse for feeling shocked at the physical incongruity between the two -- a prosaic person like cousin Tom , who did n't like poetry and fairy tales . 
Lucy gave some playful contradiction , but Philip did not hear what it was , for he had naturally turned towards Maggie , and she was looking at him with that open , affectionate scrutiny , which we give to a friend from whom we have been long separated . 
He felt this so keenly -- with such intense , detailed remembrance -- with such passionate revival of all that had been said and looked in their last conversation -- that with that jealousy and distrust which in diffident natures is almost inevitably linked with a strong feeling , he thought he read in Maggie 's glance and manner the evidence of a change . 
said Maggie . 
In a moment Maggie and Philip leaned forward , and the hands were clasped again , with a look of sad contentment like that of friends who meet in the memory of recent sorrow . 
Maggie , in her impulsiveness , wanted Philip to know at once the position they must hold towards each other ; but she checked herself . 
The things that had happened since he had spoken of his love for her were so painful that she shrank from being the first to allude to them . 
It seemed almost like an injury towards Philip even to mention her brother -- her brother who had insulted him . 
But he was thinking too entirely of her to be sensitive on any other point at that moment . 
`` Then we can at least be friends , Maggie ? 
said Maggie , withdrawing her hand . 
`` I should not give you up on any ground but your own wish , Maggie , '' said Philip , colouring . 
`` Is that inevitable , Maggie ? '' 
Philip was silent a few moments , and then said in that high , feeble voice which with him indicated the resolute suppression of emotion : -- `` Is there no other alternative , Maggie ? 
`` Yes , Philip , '' she said , looking at him pleadingly , as if she entreated him to believe that she was compelled to this course . 
`` Now , you are returning to your old thought in a new form , Maggie -- the thought I used to combat , '' said Philip , with a slight tinge of bitterness . 
The bitterness had taken on some impetuosity as Philip went on speaking : the words were evidently an outlet for some immediate feeling of his own , as well as an answer to Maggie . 
It would have seemed to him like reminding Maggie of a promise ; it would have had for him something of the baseness of compulsion . 
His love for Maggie was stamped , even more than the rest of his experience , with the exaggerated sense that he was an exception -- that she , that every one , saw him in the light of an exception . 
But Maggie was conscience-stricken . 
`` Yes , Philip , '' she said with her childish contrition when he used to chide her , `` you are right , I know . 
Maggie was resting her elbow on the table , leaning her head on her hand and looking at Philip with half-penitent dependent affection , as she said this ; while he was returning her gaze with an expression that , to her consciousness , gradually became less vague -- became charged with a specific recollection . 
Had his mind flown back to something that she now remembered ? 
`` What is the matter , Maggie ? 
`` No -- nothing , '' said Maggie , rousing her latent will . 
Philip must not have that odious thought in his mind : she would banish it from her own . 
`` Nothing , '' she repeated , `` except in my own mind . 
She took up her work and occupied herself resolutely , while Philip watched her , really in doubt whether she had anything more than this general allusion in her mind . 
It was quite in Maggie 's character to be agitated by vague self-reproach . 
said Maggie , quite mistress of herself , though not without some inward flutter . 
`` Well , old fellow , '' he said , going straight up to Philip and shaking him heartily by the hand , bowing to Maggie in passing , `` it 's glorious to have you back again ; only I wish you 'd conduct yourself a little less like a sparrow with a residence on the house-top , and not go in and out constantly without letting the servants know . 
said Stephen , turning to Maggie with stiff politeness , and putting out his hand with the air of fulfilling a social duty . 
Maggie gave the tips of her fingers , and said , `` Quite well , thank you , '' in a tone of proud indifference . 
`` Maggie is not the sort of woman Stephen admires , and she is irritated by something in him which she interprets as conceit , '' was the silent observation that accounted for everything to guileless Lucy . 
Stephen and Maggie had no sooner completed this studied greeting than each felt hurt by the other 's coldness . 
And Stephen , while rattling on in questions to Philip about his recent sketching expedition , was thinking all the more about Maggie because he was not drawing her into the conversation , as he had invariably done before . 
`` Maggie and Philip are not looking happy , '' thought Lucy : `` this first interview has been saddening to them . '' 
Give us the duet in ` Masaniello : ' Maggie has not heard that , and I know it will suit her . '' 
Stephen had fallen by mistake into his habit of playful appeal to Maggie , and she could not repress the answering flush and epigram . 
`` I have observed a tendency to predominance , '' she said , smiling ; and Philip at that moment devoutly hoped that she found the tendency disagreeable . 
Maggie always tried in vain to go on with her work when music began . 
She tried harder than ever to-day ; for the thought that Stephen knew how much she cared for his singing was one that no longer roused a merely playful resistance ; and she knew , too , that it was his habit always to stand so that he could look at her . 
But it was of no use : she soon threw her work down , and all her intentions were lost in the vague state of emotion produced by the inspiring duet -- emotion that seemed to make her at once strong and weak : strong for all enjoyment , weak for all resistance . 
When the strain passed into the minor , she half-started from her seat with the sudden thrill of that change . 
Poor Maggie ! 
Lucy , who at other times had always been at the piano when Maggie was looking in this way , could not resist the impulse to steal up to her and kiss her . 
Philip , too , caught a glimpse of her now and then round the open book on the desk , and felt that he had never before seen her under so strong an influence . 
Maggie always says she likes a great rush of sound . '' 
''' It was not quite unintentionally that Philip had wandered into this song , which might be an indirect expression to Maggie of what he could not prevail on himself to say to her directly . 
Her ears had been open to what he was saying , and when he began to sing , she understood the plaintive passion of the music . 
That pleading tenor had no very fine qualities as a voice , but it was not quite new to her : it had sung to her by snatches , in a subdued way , among the grassy walks and hollows , and underneath the leaning ash-tree in the Red Deeps . 
She wished she had assured him more distinctly in their conversation that she desired not to renew the hope of love between them , only because it clashed with her inevitable circumstances . 
She was touched , not thrilled , by the song : it suggested distinct memories and thoughts , and brought quiet regret in the place of excitement . 
Lucy , always proud of what Stephen did , went towards the piano with laughing , admiring looks at him ; and Maggie , in spite of her resistance to the spirit of the song and to the singer , was taken hold of and shaken by the invisible influence -- was borne along by a wave too strong for her . 
But angrily resolved not to betray herself , she seized her work , and went on making false stitches and pricking her fingers with much perseverance , not looking up or taking notice of what was going forward , until all the three voices united in `` Let us take the road . '' 
I am afraid there would have been a subtle , stealing gratification in her mind if she had known how entirely this saucy , defiant Stephen was occupied with her : how he was passing rapidly from a determination to treat her with ostentatious indifference to an irritating desire for some sign of inclination from her -- some interchange of subdued word or look with her . 
Maggie , feeling the need of a footstool , was walking across the room to get one , when Stephen , who was not singing just then , and was conscious of all her movements , guessed her want , and flew to anticipate her , lifting the footstool with an entreating look at her , which made it impossible not to return a glance of gratitude . 
And then , to have the footstool placed carefully by a too self-confident personage -- not any self-confident personage , but one in particular , who suddenly looks humble and anxious , and lingers , bending still , to ask if there is not some draught in that position between the window and the fireplace , and if he may not be allowed to move the work-table for her -- these things will summon a little of the too-ready , traitorous tenderness into a woman 's eyes , compelled as she is in her girlish time to learn her life-lessons in very trivial language . 
And to Maggie such things had not been everyday incidents , but were a new element in her life , and found her keen appetite for homage quite fresh . 
That tone of gentle solicitude obliged her to look at the face that was bent towards her , and to say , `` No , thank you ; '' and nothing could prevent that mutual glance from being delicious to both , as it had been the evening before . 
But to Philip 's mind , filled already with a vague anxiety that was likely to find a definite ground for itself in any trivial incident , this sudden eagerness in Stephen , and the change in Maggie 's face , which was plainly reflecting a beam from his , seemed so strong a contrast with the previous overwrought signs of indifference , as to be charged with painful meaning . 
He had really seen no communicable ground for suspecting any unusual feeling between Stephen and Maggie : his own reason told him so , and he wanted to go home at once that he might reflect coolly on these false images , till he had convinced himself of their nullity . 
But then , again , he wanted to stay as long as Stephen stayed -- always to be present when Stephen was present with Maggie . 
It seemed to poor Philip so natural , nay , inevitable , that any man who was near Maggie should fall in love with her ! 
Because Maggie says all their hearts are set on Tom 's getting back the mill some time . 
It was one of the last things her father said to Tom , that he must get back the mill . '' 
Before three days had passed after the conversation you have just overheard between Lucy and her father , she had contrived to have a private interview with Philip during a visit of Maggie 's to her aunt Glegg . 
He thought he saw before him now a possibility of altering his position with respect to Maggie , and removing at least one obstacle between them . 
But if he could once be in the position of Maggie 's accepted , acknowledged lover , there would be less room for vague dread . 
He went up to his painting-room again , and threw himself , with a sense of fatigue , into the armchair , looking round absently at the views of water and rock that were ranged around , till he fell into a doze , in which he fancied Maggie was slipping down a glistening , green , slimy channel of a waterfall , and he was looking on helpless , till he was awakened by what seemed a sudden , awful crash . 
Wakem was silent a little while , pausing before Maggie 's picture . 
The culmination of Maggie 's career as an admired member of society in St Ogg 's was certainly the day of the bazaar , when her simple noble beauty , clad in a white muslin of some soft-floating kind , which I suspect must have come from the stores of aunt Pullet 's wardrobe , appeared with marked distinction among the more adorned and conventional women around her . 
The Miss Guests were much too well-bred to have any of the grimaces and affected tones that belong to pretentious vulgarity ; but their stall being next to the one where Maggie sat , it seemed newly obvious to day that Miss Guest held her chin too high , and that Miss Laura spoke and moved continually with a view to effect . 
Maggie had begged to sit at the open end of the stall , and to have the sale of these articles rather than of bead-mats and other elaborate products , of which she had but a dim understanding . 
But it soon appeared that the gentlemen 's dressing-growns , which were among her commodities , were objects of such general attention and inquiry , and excited so troublesome a curiosity as to their lining and comparative merits , together with a determination to test them by trying on , as to make her post a very conspicuous one . 
Not that anger , on account of spurned beauty , can dwell in the celestial breasts of charitable ladies , but rather , that the errors of persons who have once been much admired necessarily take a deeper tinge from the mere force of contrast ; and also , that today Maggie 's conspicuous position , for the first time , made evident certain characteristics which were subsequently felt to have an explanatory bearing . 
As for dear little Lucy herself , her late benevolent triumph about the Mill , and all the affectionate projects she was cherishing for Maggie and Philip , helped to give her the highest spirits to-day , and she felt nothing but pleasure in the evidence of Maggie 's attractiveness . 
It is true , she was looking very charming herself , and Stephen was paying her the utmost attention on this public occasion ; jealously buying up the articles he had seen under her fingers in the process of making , and gaily helping her to cajole the male customers into the purchase of the most effeminate futilities . 
He chose to lay aside his hat and wear a scarlet fez of her embroidering ; but by superficial observers this was necessarily liable to be interpreted less as a compliment to Lucy than as a mark of coxcombry . 
And Stephen purchased absolutely nothing from Maggie , until Lucy said , in rather a vexed undertone -- `` See , now ; all the things of Maggie 's knitting will be gone , and you will not have bought one . 
But now , do go and buy something of Maggie . '' 
`` No , no -- see -- she has got a customer : there is old Wakem himself just coming up . '' 
Lucy 's eyes turned with anxious interest towards Maggie , to see how she went through this first interview , since a sadly memorable time , with a man towards whom she must have so strange a mixture of feelings ; but she was pleased to notice that Wakem had tact enough to enter at once into talk about the bazaar wares , and appear interested in purchasing , smiling now and then kindly at Maggie , and not calling on her to speak much , as if he observed that she was rather pale and tremulous . 
But Stephen did not appear to notice this , and as some lady-purchasers came up , he lounged on towards Maggie 's end , handling trifles and standing aloof until Wakem , who had taken out his purse , had finished his transactions . 
She returned his smile and bow without speaking , and he turned away , only then observing Stephen and nodding to him . 
Maggie , conscious that Stephen was still there , busied herself with counting money , and avoided looking up . 
She had been well pleased that he had devoted himself to Lucy to-day , and had not come near her . 
Maggie went on counting her money till she suddenly heard a deep gentle voice saying , `` Are n't you very tired ? 
The unexpected tones shook her like a sudden accidental vibration of a harp close by her . 
`` O no , thank you , '' she said , faintly , and only half looking up for an instant . 
`` Pray , go away , '' said Maggie , looking at him helplessly , her eyes glancing immediately from him to the opposite corner of the orchestra , which was half hidden by the folds of the old faded green curtain . 
Maggie had no sooner uttered this entreaty than she was wretched at the admission it implied ; but Stephen turned away at once , and , following her upward glance , he saw Philip Wakem seated in the half-hidden corner , so that he could command little more than that angle of the hall in which Maggie sat . 
An entirely new thought occurred to Stephen , and , linking itself with what he had observed of Wakem 's manner , and with Lucy 's reply to his observation , it convinced him that there had been some former relation between Philip and Maggie beyond that childish one of which he had heard . 
Meanwhile , Maggie sate at her stall cold and trembling , with that painful sensation in the eyes which comes from resolutely repressed tears . 
Was her life to be always like this ? 
She heard confusedly the busy indifferent voices around her , and wished her mind could flow into that easy , babbling current . 
It was at this moment that Dr Kenn , who had quite lately come into the hall , and was now walking down the middle with his hands behind him , taking a general view , fixed his eyes on Maggie for the first time , and was struck with the expression of pain on her beautiful face . 
She was sitting quite still , for the stream of customers had lessened at this late hour in the afternoon : the gentlemen had chiefly chosen the middle of the day , and Maggie 's stall was looking rather bare . 
This , with her absent , pained expression , finished the contrast between her and her companions , who were all bright , eager , and busy . 
Her face had naturally drawn his attention as a new and striking one at church , and he had been introduced to her during a short call on business at Mr Deane 's , but he had never spoken more than three words to her . 
He walked towards her now , and Maggie , perceiving some one approaching , roused herself to look up and be prepared to speak . 
She felt a childlike , instinctive relief from the sense of uneasiness in this exertion , when she saw it was Dr Kenn 's face that was looking at her : that plain , middle-aged face , with a grave , penetrating kindness in it , seeming to tell of a human being who had reached a firm , safe strand , but was looking with helpful pity towards the strugglers still tossed by the waves , had an effect on Maggie at this moment which was afterwards remembered by her as if it had been a promise . 
Most of us , at some moment in our young lives , would have welcomed a priest of that natural order in any sort of canonicals or uncanonicals , but had to scramble upwards into all the difficulties of nineteen entirely without such aid , as Maggie did . 
`` It is , rather , '' said Maggie , simply , not being accustomed to simper amiable denials of obvious facts . 
`` O , I must go , '' said Maggie , earnestly , looking at Dr Kenn with an expression of reliance , as if she had told him her history in those three words . 
Dr Kenn 's ear and eye took in all the signs that this brief confidence of Maggie 's was charged with meaning . 
It may be surprising that Maggie , among whose many imperfections an excessive delight in admiration and acknowledged supremacy were not absent now , any more than when she was instructing the gypsies with a view towards achieving a royal position among them , was not more elated on a day when she had had the tribute of so many looks and smiles , together with that satisfactory consciousness which had necessarily come from being taken before Lucy 's cheval-glass , and made to look at the full length of her tall beauty , crowned by the night of her massy hair . 
Maggie had smiled at herself then , and for the moment had forgotten everything in the sense of her own beauty . 
If that state of mind could have lasted , her choice would have been to have Stephen Guest at her feet , offering her a life filled with all luxuries , with daily incense of adoration near and distant , and with all possibilities of culture at her command . 
But there were things in her stronger than vanity -- passion , and affection , and long deep memories of early discipline and effort , of early claims on her love and pity ; and the stream of vanity was soon swept along and mingled imperceptibly with that wider current which was at its highest force to-day , under the double urgency of the events and inward impulses brought by the last week . 
Philip had not spoken to her himself about the removal of obstacles between them on his father 's side -- he shrank from that ; but he had told everything to Lucy , with the hope that Maggie , being informed through her , might give him some encouraging sign that their being brought thus much nearer to each other was a happiness to her . 
The rush of conflicting feelings was too great for Maggie to say much when Lucy , with a face breathing playful joy , like one of Correggio 's cherubs , poured forth her triumphant revelation ; and Lucy could hardly be surprised that she could do little more than cry with gladness at the thought of her father 's wish being fulfilled , and of Tom 's getting the Mill again in reward for all his hard striving . 
Philip had been to the house more than once , but Maggie had had no private conversation with him , and thus she had been left to fight her inward battle without interference . 
But when the bazaar was fairly ended , and the cousins were alone again , resting together at home , Lucy said -- `` You must give up going to stay with your aunt Moss the day after to-morrow , Maggie : write a note to her , and tell her you have put it off at my request , and I 'll send the man with it . 
She wo n't be displeased ; you 'll have plenty of time to go by-and-by ; and I do n't want you to go out of the way just now . '' 
`` Maggie ! '' 
`` I did n't tell you , dear , '' said Maggie , making a great effort to command herself , `` because you 've been so busy . 
But some time ago I wrote to our old governess , Miss Firniss , to ask her to let me know if she met with any situation that I could fill , and the other day I had a letter from her telling me that I could take three orphan pupils of hers to the coast during the holidays , and then make trial of a situation with her as teacher . 
`` Maggie , '' she said at last , `` how could you be so unkind to me -- not to tell me -- to take such a step -- and now ! '' 
O Maggie -- what is the reason ? 
`` Yes , '' said Maggie , faintly . 
`` But I must go , '' said Maggie , in a distressed voice . 
At length she knelt down by her cousin , and , looking up in her face with anxious seriousness , said -- `` Maggie , is it that you do n't love Philip well enough to marry him ? 
Maggie held Lucy 's hands tightly in silence a little while . 
Her own hands were quite cold . 
But when she spoke , her voice was quite clear and distinct . 
The next word she said was -- `` Well , dear Maggie , at least you will go to the dance at Park House tomorrow , and have some music and brightness , before you go to pay these dull , dutiful visits . 
Maggie at first refused to dance , saying that she had forgotten all the figures -- it was so many years since she had danced at school ; and she was glad to have that excuse , for it is ill dancing with a heavy heart . 
But at length the music wrought in her young limbs , and the longing came ; even though it was the horrible young Torry , who walked up a second time to try and persuade her . 
But at last it was the turn of the good old-fashioned dance , which has the least of vanity and the most of merriment in it , and Maggie quite forgot her troublous life in a childlike enjoyment of that half-rustic rhythm which seems to banish pretentious etiquette . 
She felt quite charitably towards young Torry , as his hand bore her along and held her up in the dance ; her eyes and cheeks had that fire of young joy in them which will flame out if it can find the least breath to fan it ; and her simple black dress , with its bit of black lace , seemed like the dim setting of a jewel . 
He told himself so ; and yet he had once or twice felt a certain savage resistance , and at another moment a shuddering repugnance , to this intrusion of Philip 's image , which almost made it a new incitement to rush towards Maggie and claim her for himself . 
Nevertheless he had done what he meant to do this evening : he had kept aloof from her ; he had hardly looked at her ; and he had been gaily assiduous to Lucy . 
But now his eyes were devouring Maggie : he felt inclined to kick young Torry out of the dance , and take his place . 
The possibility that he too should dance with Maggie , and have her hand in his so long , was beginning to possess him like a thirst . 
Stephen hardly knew what happened , or in what automatic way he got through the duties of politeness in the interval , until he was free and saw Maggie seated alone again , at the farther end of the room . 
He made his way towards her round the couples that were forming for the walts , and when Maggie became conscious that she was the person he sought , she felt , in spite of all the thoughts that had gone before , a glowing gladness at heart . 
Her eyes and cheeks were still brightened with her childlike enthusiasm in the dance ; her whole frame was set to joy and tenderness ; even the coming pain could not seem bitter -- she was ready to welcome it as a part of life , for life at this moment seemed a keen vibrating consciousness poised above pleasure or pain . 
This one , this last night , she might expand unrestrainedly in the warmth of the present , without those chill eating thoughts of the past and the future . 
`` They 're going to waltz again , '' said Stephen , bending to speak to her , with that glance and tone of subdued tenderness which young dreams create to themselves in the summer woods when low cooing voices fill the air . 
He took her hand and placed it within his arm , and they walked on into the sitting-room , where the tables were strewn with engravings for the accommodation of visitors who would not want to look at them . 
`` How strange and unreal the trees and flowers look with the lights among them , '' said Maggie , in a low voice . 
She was looking at the tier of geraniums as she spoke , and Stephen made no answer ; but he was looking at her -- and does not a supreme poet blend light and sound into one , calling darkness mute , and light eloquent ? 
Something strangely powerful there was in the light of Stephen 's long gaze , for it made Maggie 's face turn towards it and look upward at it -- slowly , like a flower at the ascending brightness . 
The change of movement brought a new consciousness to Maggie : she blushed deeply , turned away her head , and drew her arm from Stephen 's , going up to some flowers to smell them . 
said Maggie , making a great effort to say something , and dissipate the burning sense of irretrievable confession . 
Stephen was mute : he was incapable of putting a sentence together , and Maggie bent her arm a little upward towards the large half-opened rose that had attracted her . 
Maggie 's was such an arm as that -- and it had the warm tints of life . 
But the next moment Maggie snatched it from him , and glared at him like a wounded war-goddess , quivering with rage and humiliation . 
-- she spoke in a deeply shaken , half-smothered voice . 
She darted from him into the adjoining room , and threw herself on the sofa , panting and trembling . 
A horrible punishment was come upon her for the sin of allowing a moment 's happiness that was treachery to Lucy , to Philip -- to her own better soul . 
As for Stephen , he leaned back against the framework of the conservatory , dizzy with the conflict of passions -- love , rage , and confused despair : despair at his want of self-mastery , and despair that he had offended Maggie . 
The last feeling surmounted every other : to be by her side again and entreat forgiveness was the only thing that had the force of a motive for him , and she had not been seated more than a few minutes when he came and stood humbly before her . 
But Maggie 's bitter rage was unspent . 
`` Leave me to myself , if you please , '' she said , with impetuous haughtiness , `` and for the future avoid me . '' 
Maggie , too , was not long before she re-entered . 
All the pride of her nature was stung into activity : the hateful weakness which had dragged her within reach of this wound to her self-respect , had at least wrought its own cure . 
The thoughts and temptations of the last month should all be flung away into an unvisited chamber of memory : there was nothing to allure her now ; duty would be easy , and all the old calm purposes would reign peacefully once more . 
She re-entered the drawing-room still with some excited brightness in her face , but with a sense of proud self-command that defied anything to agitate her . 
She refused to dance again , but she talked quite readily and calmly with every one who addressed her . 
And when they got home that night , she kissed Lucy with a free heart , almost exulting in this scorching moment , which had delivered her from the possibility of another word or look that would have the stamp of treachery towards that gentle , unsuspicious sister . 
The next morning Maggie did not set off to Basset quite so soon as she had expected . 
Her mother was to accompany her in the carriage , and household business could not be despatched hastily by Mrs Tulliver . 
So Maggie , who had been in a hurry to prepare herself , had to sit waiting , equipped for the drive , in the garden . 
Lucy was busy in the house wrapping up some bazaar presents for the younger ones at Basset , and when there was a loud ring at the door-bell , Maggie felt some alarm lest Lucy should bring out Stephen to her : it was sure to be Stephen . 
But presently the visitor came out into the garden alone , and seated himself by her on the garden-chair . 
`` We can just catch the tips of the Scotch firs , Maggie , from this seat , '' said Philip . 
They had taken each other 's hands in silence , but Maggie had looked at him with a more complete revival of the old childlike affectionate smile than he had seen before , and he felt encouraged . 
`` Yes , '' she said , `` I often look at them , and wish I could see the low sunlight on the stems again . 
A keen remembrance and keen pity impelled Maggie to put her hand in Philip 's . 
`` I remember all the spots , '' she said -- `` just where you told me of particular things -- beautiful stories that I had never heard of before . '' 
`` You will go there again soon -- wo n't you , Maggie ? '' 
`` Yes ; but I shall not be there , '' said Maggie . 
`` Then the future will never join on the the past again , Maggie ? 
The grey eyes that had so often looked up at her with entreating worship , looked up at her now , with a last struggling ray of hope in them , and Maggie met them with her large sincere gaze . 
`` That book never will be closed , Philip , '' she said , with grave sadness ; `` I desire no future that will break the ties of the past . 
`` Is that the only reason that would keep us apart for ever , Maggie ? '' 
`` The only reason , '' said Maggie , with calm decision . 
And she believed it . 
At that moment she felt as if the enchanted cup had been dashed to the ground . 
The reactionary excitement that gave her a proud self-mastery had not subsided , and she looked at the future with a sense of calm choice . 
They sat hand-in-hand without looking at each other or speaking for a few minutes : in Maggie 's mind the first scenes of love and parting were more present than the actual moment , and she was looking at Philip in the Red Deeps . 
Philip felt that he ought to have been thoroughly happy in that answer of hers : she was as open and transparent as a rock-pool . 
Maggie had been four days at her aunt Moss 's , giving the early June sunshine quite a new brightness in the care-dimmed eyes of that affectionate woman , and making an epoch for her cousins great and small , who were learning her words and actions by heart , as if she had been a transient avatar of perfect wisdom and beauty . 
Maggie , with her bonnet over her arm , was smiling down at the hatch of small fluffy chickens , when her aunt exclaimed -- `` Goodness me ! 
Maggie felt a beating at head and heart -- horrible as the sudden leaping to life of a savage enemy who had feigned death . 
said Mrs Moss , seeing in Maggie 's face the evidence that she knew . 
`` It is Mr Stephen Guest , '' said Maggie , rather faintly . 
Good Mrs Moss , rather nervous in the presence of this apparently haughty gentleman , was inwardly wondering whether she would be doing right or wrong to invite him again to leave his horse and walk in , when Maggie , feeling all the embarrassment of the situation , and unable to say anything , put on her bonnet , and turned to walk towards the gate . 
Stephen turned too , and walked by her side , leading his horse . 
Not a word was spoken till they were out in the lane , and had walked four or five yards , when Maggie , who had been looking straight before her all the while , turned again to walk back , saying , with haughty resentment -- `` There is no need for me to go any farther . 
Maggie gave a slight start , such as might have come from the slightest possible electric shock . 
Maggie dared not speak -- dared not turn her head . 
The strength that had come from resentment was all gone , and her lips were quivering visibly . 
She could not trust herself to utter the full forgiveness that rose in answer to that confession . 
They were come nearly in front of the gate again , and she paused , trembling . 
`` You must not say these things -- I must not hear them , '' she said , looking down in misery , as Stephen came in front of her , to prevent her from going farther towards the gate . 
Maggie did not -- dared not look . 
She had already seen the harassed face . 
But she said gently -- `` I do n't think any evil of you . '' 
`` Yes , I do forgive you , '' said Maggie , shaken by those tones , and all the more frightened at herself . 
A great tear fell from under her lowered eyelids . 
Maggie turned . 
`` O no , '' said Maggie , hurriedly , `` my aunt will think it so strange . '' 
Lead him up and down just here , for five minutes , '' he added to Willy , who was now close to them ; and then he turned to Maggie 's side , and they walked on . 
It was clear that she must go on now . 
`` Take my arm , '' said Stephen , entreatingly ; and she took it , feeling all the while as if she were sliding downwards in a nightmare . 
`` There is no end to this misery , '' she began , struggling to repel the influence by speech . 
If I did n't -- '' Stephen had laid his hand on Maggie 's that rested on his arm , and they both felt it difficult to speak . 
`` And I have other ties , '' Maggie went on , at last , with a desperate effort , -- `` even if Lucy did not exist . '' 
Maggie , if you loved me as I love you , we should throw everything else to the winds for the sake of belonging to each other . 
`` I would rather die than fall into that temptation , '' said Maggie , with deep , slow distinctness , -- all the gathered spiritual force of painful years coming to her aid in this extremity . 
She drew her arm from his as she spoke . 
It darted through Maggie 's mind that here was a mode of releasing herself from outward struggle -- to tell Stephen that her whole heart was Philip 's . 
But her lips would not utter that , and she was silent . 
`` If you do love me , dearest , '' said Stephen , gently , taking up her hand again and laying it within his arm , `` it is better -- it is right that we should marry each other . 
Maggie was silent . 
If it were not wrong -- if she were once convinced of that , and need no longer beat and struggle against this current , soft and yet strong as the summer stream ! 
`` Say ` yes , ' dearest , '' said Stephen , leaning to look entreatingly in her face . 
Her breath was on his face -- his lips were very near hers -- but there was a great dread dwelling in his love for her . 
Her lips and eyelids quivered ; she opened her eyes full on his for an instant , like a lovely wild animal timid and struggling under caresses , and then turned sharp round towards home again . 
`` You do n't believe that -- it is not your real feeling , '' said Maggie , earnestly . 
Maggie , you must see that -- you do see that . '' 
He was looking eagerly at her face for the least sign of compliance ; his large , firm , gentle grasp was on her hand . 
She was silent for a few moments , with her eyes fixed on the ground ; then she drew a deep breath , and said , looking up at him with solemn sadness -- `` O it is difficult -- life is very difficult . 
Maggie had become more and more earnest as she went on ; her face had become flushed , and her eyes fuller and fuller of appealing love . 
Stephen had the fibre of nobleness in him that vibrated to her appeal ; but in the same moment -- how could it be otherwise ? 
`` Dearest , '' he said , in scarcely more than a whisper , while his arm stole round her , `` I 'll do , I 'll bear anything you wish . 
One kiss -- and then a long look -- until Maggie said , tremulously , `` Let me go -- let us make haste back . '' 
She hurried along , and not another word was spoken . 
Stephen stood still and beckoned when they came within sight of Willy and the horse , and Maggie went on through the gate . 
It might be a joyful thing that Maggie had a rich and handsome lover , but she would naturally feel embarrassed at coming in again : -- and it might not be joyful . 
In either case , Mrs Moss waited anxiously to receive Maggie by herself . 
She drew Maggie into the porch , and sat down on the bench by her : -- there was no privacy in the house . 
The poor child threw her arms round her aunt 's neck , and fell into long , deep sobs . 
Maggie left her good aunt Gritty at the end of the week , and went to Garum Firs to pay her visit to aunt Pullet according to agreement . 
Lucy came so early as to have the start even of aunt Glegg ; for she longed to have some undisturbed talk with Maggie about the wonderful news . 
were conspiring now to make poor dear aunt Tulliver , and cousin Tom , and haughty Maggie too , if she were not obstinately bent on the contrary , as happy as they deserved to be after all their troubles . 
On this last point Lucy had her cunning projects , and when she and Maggie had made their dangerous way down the bright stairs into the handsome parlour , where the very sunbeams seemed cleaner than elsewhere , she directed her manoeuvres , as any other great tactician would have done , against the weaker side of the enemy . 
`` Aunt Pullet , '' she said , seating herself on the sofa , and caressingly adjusting that lady 's floating cap-string , `` I want you to make up your mind what linen and things you will give Tom towards housekeeping ; because you 're always so generous -- you give such nice things , you know ; and if you set the example , aunt Glegg will follow . '' 
But I 'm not going to give Maggie any more o ' my Indy muslin and things , if she 's to go into service again , when she might stay and keep me company , and do my sewing for me , if she was n't wanted at her brother 's . '' 
`` Going into service '' was the expression by which the Dodson mind represented to itself the position of teacher or governess , and Maggie 's return to that menial condition , now circumstances offered her more eligible prospects , was likely to be a sore point with all her relatives , besides Lucy . 
Maggie in her crude form , with her hair down her back , and altogether in a state of dubious promise , was a most undesirable niece ; but now , she was capable of being at once ornamental and useful . 
said Mr Glegg , good-naturedly patting Maggie on the back , `` nonsense , nonsense ! 
Do n't let us hear of you taking a place again , Maggie . 
It 's respect and duty to her aunts , and the rest of her kin as are so good to her , should have kept my niece from fixing about going away again , without consulting us -- not sweethearts , if I 'm to use such a word , though it was never heared in my family . '' 
Though it 's other people must see the joke in a niece 's putting a slight on her mother 's eldest sister , as is the head o ' the family ; and only coming in and out on short visits , all the time she 's been in the town , and then settling to go away without my knowledge -- as I 'd laid caps out on purpose for her to make 'em up for me , -- and me as have divided my money so equal -- '' `` Sister , '' Mrs Tulliver broke in , anxiously , `` I 'm sure Maggie never thought o ' going away without staying at your house as well as the others . 
Not as it 's my wish she should go away at all -- but quite contrairy . 
Maggie 'll have before she 's fixed to go : she can stay at your house just as well , and I 'll step in when I can , and so will Lucy . '' 
Maggie jumped up to kiss Tom as he entered , with strong feeling , at this first meeting since the prospect of returning to the Mill had been opened to him ; and she kept his hand , leading him to the chair by her side . 
To have no cloud between herself and Tom was still a perpetual yearning in her , that had its root deeper than all change . 
He smiled at her very kindly this evening , and said , `` Well , Maggie , how 's aunt Moss ? '' 
In the eagerness of her affectionate anxiety for Maggie , Lucy could not persuade herself to defer a conversation about her with Tom , who , she thought , with such a cup of joy before him as this rapid fulfilment of his wish about the Mill , must become pliant and flexible . 
She had counted on this revelation as a great stroke of policy , which was to turn Tom 's heart towards Philip at once , and , besides that , prove that the elder Wakem was ready to receive Maggie with all the honours of a daughter-in-law . 
Nothing was wanted , then , but for dear Tom , who always had that pleasant smile when he looked at cousin Lucy , to turn completely round , say the opposite of what he had always said before , and declare that he , for his part , was delighted that all the old grievances should be healed , and that Maggie should have Philip with all suitable despatch : in cousin Lucy 's opinion nothing could be easier . 
Other feelings added their force to produce Tom 's bitter repugnance to Philip , and to Maggie 's union with him ; and notwithstanding Lucy 's power over her strong-willed cousin , she got nothing but a cold refusal ever to sanction such a marriage : `` but of course Maggie could do as she liked -- she had declared her determination to be independent . 
Thus , all that Lucy had effected by her zealous mediation was to fill Tom 's mind with the expectation that Maggie 's perverse resolve to go into a situation again , would presently metamorphose itself , as her resolves were apt to do , into something equally perverse , but entirely different -- a marriage with Philip Wakem . 
In less than a week Maggie was at St Ogg 's again , -- outwardly in much the same position as when her visit there had just begun . 
It was easy for her to fill her mornings apart from Lucy without any obvious effort ; for she had her promised visits to pay to her aunt Glegg , and it was natural that she should give her mother more than usual of her companionship in these last weeks , especially as there were preparations to be thought of for Tom 's housekeeping . 
At first he began his mornings with a resolution that he would not dine there -- not even go in the evening , till Maggie was away . 
But the journey was not taken , and by the fourth morning no distinct resolution was formed about the evenings : they were only foreseen as times when Maggie would still be present for a little while -- when one more touch , one more glance , might be snatched . 
Honour and conscience were going to divide them : Maggie , with that appeal from her inmost soul , had decided it ; but surely they might cast a lingering look at each other across the gulf , before they turned away never to look again till that strange light had for ever faded out of their eyes . 
Maggie , all this time , moved about with a quiescence and even torpor of manner , so contrasted with her usual fitful brightness and ardour , that Lucy would have had to seek some other cause for such a change , if she had not been convinced that the position in which Maggie stood between Philip and her brother , and the prospect of her self-imposed wearisome banishment , were quite enough to account for a large amount of depression . 
But under this torpor there was a fierce battle of emotions , such as Maggie in all her life of struggle had never known or foreboded : it seemed to her as if all the worst evil in her had lain in ambush till now , and had suddenly started up full-armed with hideous , overpowering strength ! 
There were moments in which a cruel selfishness seemed to be getting possession of her : why should not Lucy -- why should not Philip suffer ? 
One other thing Stephen seemed now and then to care for , and that was , to sing : it was a way of speaking to Maggie . 
Perhaps he was not distinctly conscious that he was impelled to it by a secret longing -- running counter to all his self-confessed resolves -- to deepen the hold he had on her . 
Philip Wakem was a less frequent visitor , but he came occasionally in the evening , and it happened that he was there when Lucy said , as they sat out on the lawn , near sunset -- `` Now Maggie 's tale of visits to aunt Glegg is completed , I mean that we shall go out boating every day until she goes . 
She has not had half enough boating , because of these tiresome visits , and she likes it better than anything . 
Do n't you , Maggie ? '' 
`` Better than any sort of locomotion , I hope you mean , '' said Philip , smiling at Maggie , who was lolling backward in a low garden-chair , `` else she will be selling her soul to that ghostly boatman who haunts the Floss -- only for the sake of being drifted in a boat for ever . '' 
`` Should you like to be her boatman ? '' 
If the Floss were but a quiet lake instead of a river , we should be independent of any gentleman , for Maggie can row splendidly . 
Philip coloured too , but less from a feeling of personal offence than from a vague suspicion that Stephen 's moodiness had some relation to Maggie , who had started up from her chair as he spoke , and had walked towards the hedge of laurels to look at the descending sunlight on the river . 
This incident had the effect of drawing Philip 's attention with freshened solicitude towards Stephen and Maggie ; but when they re-entered the house , music was proposed , and Mrs Tulliver and Mr Deane being occupied with cribbage , Maggie sat apart near the table where the books and work were placed -- doing nothing , however , but listening abstractedly to the music . 
For had not Maggie virtually denied any ground for his doubts on her side ? 
and she was truth itself : it was impossible not to believe her word and glance when they had last spoken together in the garden . 
Stephen might be strongly fascinated by her -LRB- what was more natural ? -RRB- 
Stephen , moving away from the piano , sauntered slowly towards the table near which Maggie sat , and turned over the newspapers , apparently in mere idleness . 
He was in reality looking at Maggie , who had not taken the slightest notice of his approach . 
She had always additional strength of resistance when Philip was present , just as we can restrain our speech better in a spot that we feel to be hallowed . 
But at last she heard the word `` dearest , '' uttered in the softest tone of pained entreaty , like that of a patient who asks for something that ought to have been given without asking . 
She had never heard that word since the moments in the lane at Basset , when it had come from Stephen again and again , almost as involuntarily as if it had been an inarticulate cry . 
Philip could hear no word , but he had moved to the opposite side of the piano , and could see Maggie start , and blush , raise her eyes an instant towards Stephen 's face , but immediately look apprehensively towards himself . 
It was not evident to her that Philip had observed her ; but a pang of shame , under the sense of this concealment , made her move from her chair and walk to her mother 's side to watch the game at cribbage . 
It was impossible for him now to resist the conviction that there was some mutual consciousness between Stephen and Maggie ; and for half the night his irritable , susceptible nerves were pressed upon almost to frenzy by that one wretched fact : he could attempt no explanation that would reconcile it with her words and actions . 
When , at last , the need for belief in Maggie rose to its habitual predominance , he was not long in imagining the truth : -- she was struggling , she was banishing herself -- this was the clue to all he had seen since his return . 
First , he thought he must have an interview with Maggie and entreat her to confide in him ; then again , he distrusted his own interference . 
Had he not been thrusting himself on Maggie all along ? 
She had uttered words long ago in her young ignorance ; it was enough to make her hate him that these should be continually present with her as a bond . 
And had he any right to ask her for a revelation of feelings which she had evidently intended to withhold from him ? 
He would not trust himself to see her , till he had assured himself that he could act from pure anxiety for her , and not from egoistic irritation . 
She discovered that her father was to drive to Lindum this morning at ten : Lindum was the very place she wanted to go to , to make purchases -- important purchases , which must by no means be put off to another opportunity ; and aunt Tulliver must go too , because she was concerned in some of the purchases . 
`` You will have your row in the boat just the same , you know , '' she said to Maggie when they went out of the breakfast-room and up-stairs together ; `` Philip will be here at half-past ten , and it is a delicious morning . 
Maggie did not persist in objecting . 
She was almost glad of the plan ; for perhaps it would bring her some strength and clamness to be alone with Philip again : it was like revisiting the scene of a quieter life , in which the very struggles were repose , compared with the daily tumult of the present . 
She prepared herself for the boat , and at half-past ten sat waiting in the drawing-room . 
The ring of the door-bell was punctual , and she was thinking with half-sad , affectionate pleasure of the surprise Philip would have in finding that he was to be with her alone , when she distinguished a firm rapid step across the hall , that was certainly not Philip 's : the door opened , and Stephen Guest entered . 
Maggie had started up and sat down again , with her heart beating violently ; and Stephen , throwing down his cap and gloves , came and sat by her in silence . 
She thought Philip would be coming soon ; and with great effort -- for she trembled visibly -- she rose to go to a distant chair . 
`` O , we ca n't go , '' said Maggie , sinking into her chair again . 
`` Lucy is gone to Lindum , '' said Maggie , taking off her bonnet , with hurried , trembling fingers . 
`` Very well , '' said Stephen , dreamily , looking at her , as he rested his arm on the back of his chair . 
He was looking into her deep , deep eyes -- far-off and mysterious as the starlit blackness , and yet very near , and timidly loving . 
Maggie sat perfectly still -- perhaps for moments , perhaps for minutes -- until the helpless trembling had ceased , and there was a warm glow on her check . 
`` The man is waiting -- he has taken the cushions , '' she said . 
Maggie made no answer . 
`` Let us go , '' Stephen murmured , entreatingly , rising , and taking her hand to raise her too . 
Maggie felt that she was being led down the garden among the roses , being helped with firm tender care into the boat , having the cushion and cloak arranged for her feet , and her parasol opened for her -LRB- which she had forgotten -RRB- -- all by this stronger presence that seemed to bear her along without any act of her own will , like the added self which comes with the sudden exalting influence of a strong tonic -- and she felt nothing else . 
Maggie was only dimly conscious of the banks , as they passed them , and dwelt with no recognition on the villages : she knew there were several to be passed before they reached Luckreth , where they always stopped and left the boat . 
At all times she was so liable to fits of absence , that she was likely enough to let her way-marks pass unnoticed . 
This sudden change roused Maggie . 
She looked at the far-stretching fields -- at the banks close by -- and felt that they were entirely strange to her . 
A terrible alarm took possession of her . 
she exclaimed , looking back to see if the place were out of sight . 
She turned round again , with a look of distressed questioning at Stephen . 
cried Maggie , in an agony . 
She clasped her hands and broke into a sob , like a frightened child : she thought of nothing but of meeting Lucy , and seeing her look of pained surprise and doubt -- perhaps of just upbraiding . 
`` Maggie , '' he said , in a deep tone of slow decision , `` let us never go home again -- till no one can part us -- till we are married . '' 
The unusual tone , the startling words , arrested Maggie 's sob , and she sat quite still -- wondering : as if Stephen might have seen some possibilties that would alter everything , and annual the wretched facts . 
`` See , Maggie , how everything has come without our seeking -- in spite of all our efforts . 
Maggie listened -- passing from her startled wonderment to the yearning after that belief , that the tide was doing it all -- that she might glide along with the swift , silent stream , and not struggle any more . 
But across that stealing influence came the terrible shadow of past thoughts ; and the sudden horror last now , at last , the moment of fatal intoxication was close upon her , called up feelings of angry resistance towards Stephen . 
she said , in an agitated tone , flashing an indignant look at him , and trying to get her hands free . 
Stung at this reproach , he released her hands , moved back to his former place , and folded his arms , in a sort of desperation at the difficulty Maggie 's words had made present to him . 
If she would not consent to go on , he must curse himself for the embarrassment he had led her into . 
But the reproach was the unendurable thing : the one thing worse than parting with her was , that she should feel he had acted unworthily towards her . 
Maggie was paralysed : it was easier to resist Stephen 's pleading , than this picture he had called up of himself suffering , while she was vindicated -- easier even to turn away from his look of tenderness than from this look of angry misery , that seemed to place her in selfish isolation from him . 
He had called up a state of feeling in which the reasons which had acted on her conscience seemed to be transmutated into mere self-regard . 
The indignant fire in her eyes was quenched , and she began to look at him with timid distress . 
She had reproached him for being hurried into irrevocable trespass -- she , who had been so weak herself . 
`` As if I should n't feel what happened to you -- just the same , '' she said , with reproach of another kind -- the reproach of love , asking for more trust . 
This yielding to the idea of Stephen 's suffering was more fatal than the other yielding , because it was less distinguishable from that sense of others ' claims which was the moral basis of her resistance . 
He felt all the relenting in her look and tone -- it was heaven opening again . 
He moved to her side , and took her hand , leaning his elbow on the back of the boat , and saying nothing . 
He dreaded to utter another word ; he dreaded to make another movement , that might provoke another reproach or demial from her . 
Life hung on her consent : everything else was hopeless , confused , sickening misery . 
`` You will be chill , Maggie , in this thin dress . 
Maggie obeyed : there was an unspeakable charm in being told what to do , and having everything decided for her . 
She sat down again , covered with the cloak , and Stephen took to his oars again , making haste ; for they must try to get to Torby as fast as they could . 
Maggie was hardly conscious of having said or done anything decisive . 
Every influence tended to lull her into acquiescence : that dreamy gliding in the boat , which had lasted for four hours , and had brought some weariness and erhaustion -- the recoil of her fatigued sensations from the impracticable difficulty of getting out of the boat at this unknown distance from home , and walking for long miles -- all helped to bring her into more complete subjection to that strong mysterious charm which made a last parting from Stephen seem the death of all joy -- which made the thought of wounding him like the first touch of the torturing iron before which resolution shrank . 
And then there was the present happiness of being with him , which was enough to absorb all her languid energy . 
He looked more and more eagerly at this vessel , as if a new thought had come into his mind along with it , and then he looked at Maggie , hesitatingly . 
`` Maggie , dearest , '' he said , at last , `` if this vessel should be going to Mudport , or to any convenient place on the coast northward , it would be our best plan to get them to take us on board . 
Maggie 's heart began to beat with reawakened alarm at this new proposition ; but she was silent -- one course seemed as difficult as another . 
Maggie , now really faint and trembling with fear , was taken on board , making an interesting object of contemplation to admiring Dutchmen . 
But at least they had Dutch cleanliness , which makes all other inconveniences tolerable ; and the boat-cushions were spread into a couch for Maggie on the poop with all alacrity . 
But to pace up and down the deck leaning on Stephen -- being upheld by his strength -- was the first change that she needed : then came food , and then quiet reclining on the cushions , with the sense that no new resolution could be taken that day . 
Stephen sat beside her , with her hand in his ; they could only speak to each other in low tones , only look at each other now and then , for it would take a long while to dull the curiosity of the five men on board , and reduce these handsome young strangers to that minor degree of interest which belongs , in a sailor 's regard , to all objects nearer than the horizon . 
Every other thought or care was thrown into unmarked perspective by the certainty that Maggie must be his . 
He murmured forth in fragmentary sentences his happiness -- his adoration -- his tenderness -- his belief that their life together must be heaven -- that her presence with him would give rapture to every common day -- that to satisfy her lightest wish was dearer to him than all other bliss -- that everything was easy for her sake , except to part with her : and now they never would part ; he would belong to her for ever -- and all that was his was hers -- had no value for him except as it was hers . 
To poor Maggie they were very near : they were like nectar held close to thirsty lips : there was , there must be , then , a life for mortals here below which was not hard and chill -- in which affection would no longer be self-sacrifice . 
Stephen 's passionate words made the vision of such a life more fully present to her than it had ever been before ; and the vision for the time excluded all realities -- all except the returning sun-gleams which broke out on the waters as the evening approached , and mingled with the visionary sunlight of promised happiness -- all except the hand that pressed hers , and the voice that spoke to her , and the eyes that looked at her with grave , unspeakable love . 
Maggie was to sleep all night on the poop ; it was better than going below ; and she was covered with the warmest wrappings the ship could furnish . 
It was still early , when the fatigues of the day brought on a drowsy longing for perfect rest , and she laid down her head , looking at the faint dying flush in the west , where the one golden lamp was getting brighter and brighter . 
Then she looked up at Stephen , who was still seated by her , hanging over her as he leaned his arm against the vessel 's side . 
Behind all the delicious visions of these last hours , which had flowed over her like a soft stream and made her entirely passive , there was the dim consciousness that the condition was a transient one , and that the morrow must bring back the old life of struggle -- that there were thoughts which would presently avenge themselves for this oblivion . 
But now nothing was distinct to her : she was being lulled to sleep with that soft stream still flowing over her , with those delicious visions melting and fading like the wondrous arial land of the west . 
When Maggie was gone to sleep , Stephen , weary too with his unaccustomed amount of rowing , and with the intense inward life of the last twelve hours , but too restless to sleep , walked and lounged about the deck , with his cigar , far on into midnight , not seeing the dark water -- hardly conscious there were stars -- living only in the near and distant future . 
At last fatigue conquered restlessness , and he rolled himself up in a piece of tarpauling on the deck near Maggie 's feet . 
She had fallen asleep before nine , and had been sleeping for six hours before the faintest hint of a midsummer daybreak was discernible . 
She awoke from that vivid dreaming which makes the margin of our deeper rest : She was in a boat on the wide water with Stephen , and in the gathering darkness something like a star appeared , that grew and grew till they saw it was the Virgin seated in St Ogg 's boat , and it came nearer and nearer , till they saw the Virgin was Lucy and the boatman was Philip -- no , not Philip , but her brother , who rowed past without looking at her ; and she rose to stretch out her arms and call to him , and their own boat turned over with the movement , and they began to sink , till with one spasm of dread she seemed to awake , and find she was a child again in the parlour at evening twilight , and Tom was not really angry . 
The sun was rising now , and Maggie started up with the sense that a day of resistance was beginning for her . 
Her eyelashes were still wet with tears , as , with her shawl over her head , she sat looking at the slowly-rounding sun . 
Something roused Stephen too , and , getting up from his hard bed , he came to sit beside her . 
He had a hovering dread of some resistance in Maggie 's nature that he would be unable to overcome . 
He had the uneasy consciousness that he had robbed her of perfect freedom yesterday : there was too much native honour in him , for him not to feel that if her will should recoil , his conduct would have been odious , and she would have a right to reproach him . 
But Maggie did not feel that right : she was too conscious of fatal weakness in herself -- too full of the tenderness that comes with the foreseen need for inflicting a wound . 
She let him take her hand when he came to sit down beside her , and smiled at him -- only with rather a sad glance ; she could say nothing to pain him till the moment of possible parting was nearer . 
And so they drank their cup of coffee together , and walked about the deck , and heard the captain 's assurance that they should be in at Mudport by five o'clock , each with an inward burthen ; but in him it was an undefined fear , which he trusted to the coming hours to dissipate ; in her it was a definite resolve on which she was trying silently to tighten her hold . 
Stephen was continually , through the morning , expressing his anxiety at the fatigue and discomfort she was suffering , and alluded to landing and to the change of motion and repose she would have in a carriage , wanting to assure himself more completely by presupposing that everything would be as he had arranged it . 
For a long while Maggie contented herself with assuring him that she had had a good night 's rest , and that she did n't mind about being on the vessel -- it was not like being on the open sea -- it was only a little less pleasant than being in a boat on the Floss . 
But a suppressed resolve will betray itself in the eyes , and Stephen became more and more uneasy as the day advanced , under the sense that Maggie had entirely lost her passiveness . 
He longed to assure himself of a tacit assent from her . 
But each time he looked at her , he gathered a stronger dread of the new , quiet sadness with which she met his eyes . 
`` Now , dearest , '' he added , turning towards her with a look that was half-beseeching , `` the worst part of your fatigue is over . 
Maggie felt it was time to speak : it would only be unkind now to assent by silence . 
She spoke in the lowest tone , as he had done , but with distinct decision . 
Maggie had a dim sense , when she had landed , and Stephen was hurrying her along on his arm , that some one had advanced towards her from that cluster as if he were coming to speak to her . 
But she was hurried along , and was indifferent to everything but the coming trial . 
Maggie took no notice of this , and only said , `` Ask them to show us into a room where we can sit down . '' 
When they entered , Maggie did not sit down , and Stephen , whose face had a desperate determination in it , was about to ring the bell , when she said , in a firm voice : -- `` I 'm not going : we must part here . '' 
`` Maggie , '' he said , turning round towards her , and speaking in the tones of a man who feels a process of torture beginning , `` do you mean to kill me ? 
`` No , it is not done , '' said Maggie . 
He dared not go near her -- her anger might leap out , and make a new barrier . 
`` Maggie , '' he said , at last , pausing before her , and speaking in a tone of imploring wretchedness , `` have some pity -- hear me -- forgive me for what I did yesterday . 
He had chosen the most effective appeal ; but Maggie 's will was fixed unswervingly on the coming wrench . 
She had made up her mind to suffer . 
`` We must not wait , '' she said , in a low but distinct voice ; `` we must part at once . '' 
`` We ca n't part , Maggie , '' said Stephen , more impetuously . 
`` I will not begin any future , even for you , '' said Maggie , tremulously , `` with a deliberate consent to what ought not to have been . 
Maggie trembled . 
She felt that the parting could not be effected suddenly . 
She must rely on a slower appeal to Stephen 's better self -- she must be prepared for a harder task than that of rushing away while resolution was fresh . 
She sat down . 
Stephen , watching her with that look of desperation which had come over him like a lurid light , approached slowly from the door , seated himself close beside her , and grasped her hand . 
Her heart beat like the heart of a frightened bird ; but this direct opposition helped her . 
She felt her determination growing stronger . 
`` Remember what you felt weeks ago , '' she began , with beseeching earnestness -- `` remember what we both felt -- that we owed ourselves to others , and must conquer every inclination which could make us false to that debt . 
Maggie did not answer immediately . 
She was undergoing an inward as well as an outward contest . 
At last she said , with a passionate assertion of her conviction , as much against herself as against him -- `` That seems right -- at first ; but when I look further , I 'm sure it is not right . 
... '' Maggie 's voice was getting choked as she uttered these last words . 
`` I can think of nothing but you , Maggie . 
A deep flush came over Maggie 's face , and she could n't speak . 
He sat down again , taking her hand in his , and looking at her with passionate entreaty . 
`` Maggie ! 
Maggie was still silent for a little while -- looking down . 
But she raised her eyes and met his with a glance that was filled with the anguish of regret -- not with yielding . 
`` No -- not with my whole heart and soul , Stephen , '' she said , with timid resolution . 
Stephen loosed her hand , and , rising impatiently , walked up and down the room in suppresed rage . 
Maggie pressed her fingers together almost convulsively as she held them clasped on her lap . 
A great terror was upon her , as if she were ever and anon seeing where she stood by great flashes of lightning , and then again stretched forth her hands in the darkness . 
`` No -- I do n't sacrifice you -- I could n't sacrifice you , '' she said , as soon as she could speak again ; `` but I ca n't believe in a good for you , that I feel -- that we both feel is a wrong towards others . 
`` But Maggie , '' said Stephen , seating himself by her again , `` is it possible you do n't see that what happened yesterday has altered the whole position of things ? 
Again a deep flush came over Maggie 's face , and she was silent . 
`` Dearest , '' he said , in his deepest , tenderest tone , leaning towards her and putting his arm round her , `` you are mine now -- the world believes it -- duty must spring out of that now : in a few hours you will be legally mine , and those who had claims on us will submit -- they will see that there was a force which declared against their claims . 
Maggie 's eyes opened wide in one terrified look at the face that was close to hers , and she started up -- pale again . 
`` O , I ca n't do it , '' she said , in a voice almost of agony -- `` Stephen -- do n't ask me -- do n't urge me . 
`` Good God , Maggie ! '' 
said Stephen , rising too and grasping her arm , `` you rave . 
Stephen let go her arm , and sank back on his chair , half stunned by despairing rage . 
He was silent a few moments , not looking at her ; while her eyes were turned towards him yearningly , in alarm at this sudden change . 
At last he said , still without looking at her -- `` Go , then -- leave me -- do n't torture me any longer -- I ca n't bear it . '' 
Involuntarily she leaned towards him and put out her hand to touch his . 
Maggie was not conscious of a decision as she turned away from that gloomy averted face , and walked out of the room : it was like an automatic action that fulfils a forgotten intention . 
A sense of stairs descended as if in a dream -- of flagstones -- of a chaise and horses standing -- then a street , and a turning into another street where a stage-coach was standing , taking in passengers -- and the darting thought that that coach would take her away , perhaps towards home . 
But she could ask nothing yet ; she only got into the coach . 
Home -- where her mother and brother were -- Philip -- Lucy -- the scene of her very cares and trials -- was the haven towards which her mind tended -- the sanctuary where sacred relics lay -- where she would be rescued from more falling . 
Between four and five o'clock on the afternoon of the fifth day from that on which Stephen and Maggie had left St Ogg 's , Tom Tulliver was standing on the gravel-walk outside the old house at Dorlcote Mill . 
That deep-rooted fear was shaking Maggie now ; but her mind was unswervingly bent on returning to her brother , as the natural refuge that had been given her . 
In her deep humiliation under the retrospect of her own weakness -- in her anguish at the injury she had inflicted -- she almost desired to endure the severity of Tom 's reproof , to submit in patient silence to that harsh disapproving judgment against which she had so often rebelled : it seemed no more than just to her now -- who was weaker than she was ? 
She craved that outward help to her better purpose which would come from complete , submissive confession -- from being in the presence of those whose looks and words would be a reflection of her own conscience . 
Maggie had been kept on her bed at York for a day with that prostrating headache which was likely to follow on the terrible strain of the previous day and night . 
There was an expression of physical pain still about her brow and eyes , and her whole appearance , with her dress so long unchanged , was worn and distressed . 
She lifted the latch of the gate and walked in -- slowly . 
Maggie paused too -- three yards before him . 
She felt the hatred in his face : felt it rushing through her fibres : but she must speak . 
`` Tom , '' she began , faintly , `` I am come back to you -- I am come back home -- for refuge -- to tell you everything . '' 
She stood paralysed by the double shock of seeing Maggie and hearing Tom 's words . 
`` Tom , '' said Maggie , with more courage , `` I am perhaps not so guilty as you believe me to be . 
Maggie was half stunned -- too heavily pressed upon by her anguish even to discern any difference between her actual guilt and her brother 's accusations , still less to vindicate herself . 
`` Tom , '' she said , crushing her hands together under her cloak , in the effort to speak again . 
Slowly Maggie was turning away , with despair in her heart . 
O the sweet rest of that embrace to the heart-stricken Maggie ! 
`` No , mother , '' said Maggie , in a low tone , like a moan . 
Maggie was waiting outside the gate ; she took her mother 's hand , and they walked a little way in silence . 
`` Mother , '' said Maggie , at last , `` we will go to Luke 's cottage . 
Maggie was silent a little while , and then said -- `` Let us go to Bob Jakin 's , mother : his wife will have room for us , if they have no other lodger . '' 
He would perhaps not so thoroughly have understood all the dubiousness of Maggie 's appearance with Mr Stephen Guest on the quay at Mudport , if he had not witnessed the effect it produced on Tom when he went to report it ; and since then , the circumstances which in any case gave a disastrous character to her elopement , had passed beyond the more polite circles of St Ogg 's , and had become matter of common talk , accessible to the grooms and errand-boys . 
So that when he opened the door and saw Maggie standing before him in her sorrow and weariness , he had no questions to ask , except one , which he dared only ask himself -- where was Mr Stephen Guest ? 
But he was silent , and would not allow his wife to ask him a question ; would not present himself in the room , lest it should appear like intrusion and a wish to pry ; having the same chivalry towards dark-eyed Maggie , as in the days when he had bought her the memorable present of books . 
Maggie had wished this : after the first violent outburst of feeling , which came as soon as she had no longer any active purpose to fulfil , she was less in need of her mother 's presence ; she even desired to be alone with her grief . 
But she had been solitary only a little while in the old sitting-room that looked on the river , when there came a tap at the door , and turning round her sad face as she said , `` Come in , '' she saw Bob enter with the baby in his arms , and Mumps at his heels . 
`` No , '' said Maggie , in a low voice , wishing she could smile . 
Bob , closing the door behind him , came and stood before her . 
Maggie could not speak , but she put out her arms to receive the tiny baby , while Mumps snuffed at it anxiously , to ascertain that this transference was all right . 
Maggie 's heart had swelled at this action and speech of Bob 's : she knew well enough that it was a way he had chosen to show his sympathy and respect . 
`` Sit down , Bob , '' she said presently , and he sat down in silence , finding his tongue unmanageable in quite a new fashion , refusing to say what he wanted it to say . 
`` Bob , '' she said , after a few moments , looking down at the baby , and holding it anxiously , as if she feared it might slip from her mind and her fingers , `` I have a favour to ask of you . '' 
`` O , no , Bob , '' said Maggie , `` we must let it be -- till after a few days , perhaps -- when you hear that he is going about again . 
But perhaps he may be going out of town -- to a distance , '' she added , with a new sense of despondency at this idea . 
Maggie was rather startled , but she answered , `` Yes , Bob , if it is about myself -- not about any one else . '' 
`` No , not any one , '' said Maggie , looking up at him inquiringly . 
`` O Bob , '' said Maggie , smiling faintly , `` you 're a very good friend to me . 
This view of things was puzzling to Bob , and threw more obscurity than ever over what could possibly have happened between Stephen and Maggie . 
`` Yes , do leave him , please , '' said Maggie . 
`` Mumps , lie down there , '' said Bob , pointing to a place in front of Maggie , `` an ' niver do you stir till you 're spoke to . '' 
Maggie had returned without a trousseau , without a husband -- in that degraded and outcast conditon to which error is well known to lead ; and the world 's wife , with that fine instinct which is given her for the preservation of Society , saw at once that Miss Tulliver 's conduct had been of the most aggravated kind . 
Maggie , all this while , was too entirely filled with a more agonising anxiety , to spend any thought on the view that was being taken of her conduct by the world of St Ogg 's : anxiety about Stephen -- Lucy -- Philip -- beat on her poor heart in a hard , driving , ceaseless storm of mingled love , remorse , and pity . 
As soon as her mother was gone , Maggie put on her bonnet . 
She had resolved on walking to the Rectory and asking to see Dr Kenn : he was in deep grief -- but the grief of another does not jar upon us in such circumstances . 
It was the first time she had been beyond the door since her return ; nevertheless her mind was so bent on the purpose of her walk , that the unpleasantness of meeting people on the way , and being stared at , did not occur to her . 
But she had no sooner passed beyond the narrower streets which she had to thread from Bob 's dwelling , than she became aware of unusual glances cast at her ; and this consciousness made her hurry along nervously , afraid to look to right or left . 
Presently , however , she came full on Mrs and Miss Turnbull , old acquaintances of her family ; they both looked at her strangely , and turned a little aside without speaking . 
All hard looks were pain to Maggie , but her self-reproach was too strong for resentment : no wonder they will not speak to me , she thought -- they are very fond of Lucy . 
Maggie 's pride was too intense for her not to feel that sting , even in the midst of her sorrow ; and for the first time the thought took strong hold of her that she would have other obloquy cast on her besides that which was felt to be due to her breach of faith towards Lucy . 
But she was at the Rectory now ; there , perhaps , she would find something else than retribution . 
She was shown up at once , after being announced , into Dr Kenn 's study , where he sat amongst piled-up books , for which he had little appetite , leaning his cheek against the head of his youngest child , a girl of three . 
The child was sent away with the servant , and when the door was closed , Dr Kenn said , placing a chair for Maggie , -- `` I was coming to see you , Miss Tulliver ; you have anticipated me ; I am glad you did . '' 
Maggie looked at him with her childlike directness as she had done at the bazaar , and said , `` I want to tell you everything . '' 
But her eyes filled fast with tears as she said it , and all the pent-up excitement of her humiliating walk would have its vent before she could say more . 
In rather broken sentences , and with some effort , at first , but soon with the greater ease that came from a sense of relief in the confidence , Maggie told the brief story of a struggle that must be the beginning of a long sorrow . 
Only the day before , Dr Kenn had been made acquainted with the contents of Stephen 's letter , and he had believed them at once , without the confirmation of Maggie 's statement . 
That involuntary plaint of hers , `` O , I must go , '' had remained with him as the sign that she was undergoing some inward conflict . 
Maggie dwelt the longest on the feeling which had made her come back to her mother and brother , which made her cling to all the memories of the past . 
When she had ended , Dr Kenn was silent for some minutes : there was a difficulty on his mind . 
At last he seated himself again , and said , looking at Maggie -- `` Your prompting to go to your nearest friends -- to remain where all the ties of your life have been formed -- is a true prompting , to which the Church in its original constitution and discipline responds -- opening its arms to the penitent -- watching over its children to the last -- never abandoning them until they are hopelessly reprobate . 
If Maggie had not known that his benevolence was persevering in proportion to its reserve , she might have been chilled and frightened . 
As it was , she listened expectantly , quite sure that there would be some effective help in his words . 
`` O , I do -- I begin to see , '' said Maggie , unable to repress this utterance of her recent pain . 
said poor Maggie , with a flush and tremor that no presence could have hindered . 
Dr Kenn waited for her to get calm again before he went on . 
said Maggie . 
And , '' she added , with some of the old proud fire flashing out , `` I will not go away because people say false things of me . 
`` The only thing I want is some occupation that will enable me to get my bread and be independent , '' said Maggie . 
When Maggie had left him , Dr Kenn stood ruminating with his hands behind him , and his eyes fixed on the carpet , under a painful sense of doubt and difficulty . 
The tone of Stephen 's letter , which he had read , and the actual relations of all the persons concerned , forced upon him powerfully the idea of an ultimate marriage between Stephen and Maggie as the least evil ; and the impossibility of their proximity in St Ogg 's on any other supposition , until after years of separation , threw an insurmountable prospective difficulty over Maggie 's stay there . 
On the other hand , he entered with all the comprehension of a man who had known spiritual conflict , and lived through years of devoted service to his fellow-men , into that state of Maggie 's heart and conscience which made the consent to the marriage a desecration to her : her conscience must not be tampered with : the principle on which she had acted was a safer guide than any balancing of consequences . 
When Maggie was at home again , her mother brought her news of an unexpected line of conduct in aunt Glegg . 
As long as Maggie had not been heard of , Mrs Glegg had half-closed her shutters and drawn down her blinds : she felt assured that Maggie was drowned : that was far more probable than that her niece and legatee should have done anything to wound the family honour in the tenderest point . 
When , at last , she learned from Tom that Maggie had come home , and gathered from him what was her explanation of her absence , she burst forth in severe reproof of Tom for admitting the worst of his sister until he was compelled . 
Lightly to admit conduct in one of your own family that would force you to alter your will , had never been the way of the Dodsons ; and though Mrs Glegg had always augured ill of Maggie 's future at a time when other people were perhaps less clear-sighted , yet fair-play was a jewel , and it was not for her own friends to help to rob the girl of her fair fame , and to cast her out from family shelter to the scorn of the outer world , until she had become unequivocally a family disgrace . 
She quarrelled with Mr Glegg , whose kindnes , flowing entirely into compassion for Lucy , made him as hard in his judgment of Maggie as Mr Deane himself was ; and , fuming against her sister Tulliver because she did not at once come to her for advice and help , shut herself up in her own room with `` Baxter 's Saint 's Rest '' from morning till night , denying herself to all visitors , till Mr Glegg brought from Mr Deane the news of Stephen 's letter . 
He thought he had the demonstration of facts observed through years by his own eyes which gave no warning of their imperfection , that Maggie 's nature was utterly untrustworthy , and too strongly marked with evil tendencies to be safely treated with leniency : he would act on that demonstration at any cost ; but the thought of it made his days bitter to him . 
There had arisen in Tom a repulsion towards Maggie that derived its very intensity from their early childish love in the time when they had clasped tiny fingers together , and their later sense of nearness in a common duty and a common sorrow : the sight of her , as he had told her , was hateful to him . 
Mrs Glegg allowed that Maggie ought to be punished -- she was not a woman to deny that -- she knew what conduct was ; but punished in proportion to the misdeeds proved against her , not to those which were cast upon her by people outside her own family , who might wish to show that their own kin were better . 
`` Your aunt Glegg scolded me so as niver was , my dear , '' said poor Mrs Tulliver , when she came back to Maggie , `` as I did n't go to her before -- she said it was n't for her to come to me first . 
`` O mother , '' said poor Maggie , shrinking from the thought of all the contact her bruised mind would have to bear , `` tell her I 'm very grateful -- I 'll go to see her as soon as I can ; but I ca n't see any one just yet , except Dr Kenn . 
This was the first lamentation that Mrs Tulliver had let slip to Maggie , but old habit had been revived by the interview with sister Glegg . 
Maggie burst out , cut to the heart with pity and compunction , and throwing her arms round her mother 's neck , `` I was always naughty and troublesome to you . 
Still two or three more days passed , and Maggie heard nothing of Philip ; anxiety about him was becoming her predominant trouble , and she summoned courage at last to inquire about him of Dr Kenn , on his next visit to her . 
Maggie sickened under this suspense , and her imagination began to live more and more persistently in what Philip was enduring . 
What did he believe about her ? 
At last Bob brought her a letter , without a postmark , directed in a hand which she knew familiarly in the letters of her own name -- a hand in which her name had been written long ago , in a pocket Shakespeare which she possessed . 
Her mother was in the room , and Maggie , in violent agitation , hurried up-stairs , that she might read the letter in solitude . 
She read it with a throbbing brow . 
`` Maggie , -- I believe in you -- I know you never meant to deceive me -- I know you tried to keep faith to me , and to all . 
But I was wrong Maggie . 
Maggie , that is a proof of what I write now to assure you of -- that no anguish I have had to bear on your account has been too heavy a price to pay for the new life into which I have entered in loving you . 
But , Maggie , I have no just claim on you for more than affectionate remembrance . 
`` God comfort you , -- my loving , large-souled Maggie . 
As Maggie knelt by the bed sobbing , with that letter pressed under her , her feelings again and again gathered themselves in a whispered cry , always in the same words : `` O God , is there any happiness in love that could make me forget their pain ? '' 
By the end of the week Dr Kenn had made up his mind that there was only one way in which he could secure to Maggie a suitable living at St Ogg 's . 
Hitherto he had been rather more adored and appealed to than was quite agreeable to him ; but now , in attempting to open the ears of women to reason , and their consciences to justice , on behalf of Maggie Tulliver , he suddenly found himself as powerless as he was aware he would have been if he had attempted to influence the shape of bonnets . 
To have taken Maggie by the hand and said , `` I will not believe unproved evil of you : my lips shall not utter it ; my ears shall be closed against it : I , too , am an erring mortal , liable to stumble , apt to come short of my most earnest efforts ; your lot has been harder than mine , your temptation greater ; let us help each other to stand and walk without more falling ; '' -- to have done this would have demanded courage , deep pity , self-knowledge , generous trust -- would have demanded a mind that tasted no piquancy in evil-speaking , that felt no self-exaltation in condemning , that cheated itself with no large words into the belief that life can have any moral end , any high religion , which excludes the striving after perfect truth , justice , and love towards the individual men and women who come across our own path . 
The ladies of St Ogg 's were not beguiled by any wide speculative conceptions ; but they had their favourite abstraction , called Society , which served to make their consciences perfectly easy in doing what satisfied their own egoism -- thinking and speaking the worst of Maggie Tulliver , and turning their backs upon her . 
And thus every direction in which Dr Kenn had turned in the hope of procuring some kind recognition and some employment for Maggie , proved a disappointment to him . 
Mrs James Torry could not think of taking Maggie as a nursery governess , even temporarily -- a young woman about whom `` such things had been said , '' and about whom `` gentlemen joked ; '' and Miss Kirke , who had a spinal complaint , and wanted a reader and companion , felt quite sure that Maggie 's mind must be of a quality with which she , for her part , could not risk any contact . 
He himself wanted a daily governess for his younger children ; and though he had hesitated in the first instance to offer this position to Maggie , the resolution to protest with the utmost force of his personal and priestly character against her being crushed and driven away by slander , was now decisive . 
Maggie gratefully accepted an employment that gave her duties as well as a support : her days would be filled now , and solitary evenings would be a welcome rest . 
She no longer needed the sacrifice her mother made in staying with her , and Mrs Tulliver was persuaded to go back to the Mill . 
Maggie had not taken her daily walks to the Rectory for many weeks , before the dreadful possibility of her some time or other becoming the Rector 's wife had been talked of so often in confidence , that ladies were beginning to discuss how they should behave to her in that position . 
The Miss Guests saw an alleviation to the sorrow of witnessing a folly in their Rector : at least their brother would be safe ; and their knowledge of Stephen 's tenacity was a constant ground of alarm to them , lest he should come back and marry Maggie . 
They were not among those who disbelieved their brother 's letter ; but they had no confidence in Maggie 's adherence to her renunciation of him ; they suspected that she had shrunk rather from the elopement than from the marriage , and that she lingered in St Ogg 's , relying on his return to her . 
They had always thought her disagreeable ; they now thought her artful and proud ; having quite as good grounds for that judgment as you and I probably have for many strong opinions of the same kind . 
Formerly they had not altogether delighted in the contemplated match with Lucy , but now their dread of a marriage between Stephen and Maggie added its momentum to their genuine pity and indignation on behalf of the gentle forsaken girl , in making them desire that he should return to her . 
On the very first hint of gossip concerning Maggie and Dr Kenn , the report was conveyed in Miss Guest 's letter to her brother . 
Maggie had frequent tidings through her mother , or aunt Glegg , or Dr Kenn , of Lucy 's gradual progress towards recovery , and her thoughts tended continually towards her uncle Deane 's house : she hungered for an interview with Lucy , if it were only for five minutes -- to utter a word of penitence , to be assured by Lucy 's own eyes and lips that she did not believe in the willing treachery of those whom she had loved and trusted . 
Only to have seen her without speaking , would have been some relief ; for Maggie was haunted by a face cruel in its very gentleness : a face that had been turned on hers with glad sweet looks of trust and love from the twilight time of memory : changed now to a sad and weary face by a first heart-stroke . 
And as the days passed on , that pale image became more and more distinct -- the picture grew and grew into more speaking definiteness under the avenging hand of remorse ; the soft hazel eyes , in their look of pain , were bent for ever on Maggie , and pierced her the more because she could see no anger in them . 
But Lucy was not yet able to go to church , or any place where Maggie could see her ; and even the hope of that departed , when the news was told her by aunt Glegg , that Lucy was really going away in a few days to Scarborough with the Miss Guests , who had been heard to say that they expected their brother to meet them there . 
Only those who have known what hardest inward conflict is , can know what Maggie felt as she sat in her loneliness the evening after hearing that news from Mrs Glegg , -- only those who have known what it is to dread their own selfish desires as the watching mother would dread the sleeping-potion that was to still her own pain . 
But the next moment , without her having discerned the sound of a footstep , she felt a light hand on her shoulder , and heard a voice close to her saying , `` Maggie ! '' 
`` Maggie ! '' 
answered a voice with a sharp ring of anguish in it ; and Lucy threw her arms round Maggie 's neck , and leaned her pale cheek against the burning brow . 
`` I stole out , '' said Lucy , almost in a whisper , while she sat down close to Maggie and held her hand , `` when papa and the rest were away . 
But soon , as Maggie looked , every distinct thought began to be overflowed by a wave of loving penitence , and words burst forth with a sob . 
`` Maggie , dear , be comforted , '' said Lucy now , putting her cheek against Maggie 's again . 
And she sat still , hoping to soothe Maggie with that gentle caress . 
`` I did n't mean to deceive you , Lucy , '' said Maggie , as soon as she could speak . 
`` Lucy , '' Maggie began again , `` he struggled too . 
Forgive him -- he will be happy then ... '' These words were wrung forth from Maggie 's deepest soul , with an effort like the convulsed clutch of a drowning man . 
`` I 'm to go away on Friday , Maggie , '' she added , when Alice had closed the door again . 
`` Lucy , '' said Maggie , with another great effort , `` I pray to God continually that I may never be the cause of sorrow to you any more . '' 
She pressed the little hand that she held between hers , and looked up into the face that was bent over hers . 
`` Maggie , '' she said in a low voice , that had the solemnity of confession in it , `` you are better than I am . 
In the second week of September , Maggie was again sitting in her lonely room , battling with the old shadowy enemies that were for ever slain and rising again . 
All were in their beds now , for it was past midnight : all , except some solitary watchers such as Maggie . 
She was seated in her little parlour towards the river with one candle , that left everything dim in the room , except a letter which lay before her on the table . 
That letter , which had come to her to-day , was one of the causes that had kept her up far on into the night -- unconscious how the hours were going -- careless of seeking rest -- with no image of rest coming across her mind , except of that far , far off rest , from which there would be no more waking for her into this struggling earthly life . 
Two days before Maggie received that letter , she had been to the Rectory for the last time . 
The heavy rain would have prevented her from going since ; but there was another reason . 
Dr Kenn , at first enlightened only by a few hints as to the new turn which gossip and slander had taken in relation to Maggie , had recently been made more fully aware of it by an earnest remonstrance from one of his male parishioners against the indiscretion of persisting in the attempt to overcome the prevalent feeling in the parish by a course of resistance . 
He made up his mind that he must advise Maggie to go away from St Ogg 's for a time ; and he performed that difficult task with as much delicacy as he could , only stating in vague terms that he found his attempt to countenance her stay was a source of discord between himself and his parishioners , that was likely to obstruct his usefulness as a clergyman . 
He begged her to allow him to write to a clerical friend of his , who might possibly take her into his own family , as governess ; and , if not , would probably know of some other available position for a young woman in whose welfare Dr Kenn felt a strong interest . 
Poor Maggie listened with a trembling lip : she could say nothing but a faint `` thank you -- I shall be grateful ; '' and she walked back to her lodgings , through the driving rain , with a new sense of desolation . 
She must be a lonely wanderer ; she must go out among fresh faces , that would look at her wonderingly , because the days did not seem joyful to her ; she must begin a new life , in which she would have to rouse herself to receive new impressions -- and she was so unspeakably , sickeningly weary ! 
But ought she to complain ? 
Ought she to shrink in this way from the long penance of life , which was all the possibility she had of lightening the load to some other sufferers , and so changing that passionate error into a new force of unselfish human love ? 
All the next day she sat in her lonely room , with a window darkened by the cloud and the driving rain , thinking of that future , and wrestling for patience : -- for what repose could poor Maggie ever win except by wrestling ? 
And on the third day -- this day of which she had just sat out the close -- the letter had come which was lying on the table before her . 
He was come back from Holland : he was at Mudport again , unknown to any of his friends ; and had written to her from that place , enclosing the letter to a person whom he trusted in St Ogg 's . 
From beginning to end , it was a passionate cry of reproach : an appeal against her useless sacrifice of him -- of herself : against that perverted notion of right which led her to crush all his hopes , for the sake of a mere idea , and not any substantial good -- his hopes , whom she loved , and who loved her with that single overpowering passion , that worship , which a man never gives to a woman more than once in his life . 
`` Maggie ! 
Maggie , call me back to you ! 
Maggie -- have you forgotten what it was to be together ? 
When Maggie first read this letter she felt as if her real temptation had only just begun . 
For hours Maggie felt as if her struggle had been in vain . 
For hours every other thought that she strove to summon was thrust aside by the image of Stephen waiting for the single word that would bring him to her . 
She did not read the letter : she heard him uttering it , and the voice shook her with its old strange power . 
All the day before she had been filled with the vision of a lonely future through which she must carry the burthen of regret , upheld only by clinging faith . 
And here -- close within her reach -- urging itself upon her even as a claim -- was another future , in which hard endurance and effort were to be exchanged for easy delicious leaning on another 's loving strength ! 
And yet that promise of joy in the place of sadness did not make the dire force of the temptation to Maggie . 
It was Stephen 's tone of misery , -- it was the doubt in the justice of her own resolve , that made the balance tremble , and made her once start from her seat to reach the pen and paper , and write `` Come ! '' 
But close upon that decisive act , her mind recoiled ; and the sense of contradiction with her past self in her moments of strength and clearness , came upon her like a pang of conscious degradation . 
No -- she must wait -- she must pray -- the light that had forsaken her would come again : she should feel again what she had felt , when she had fled away , under an inspiration strong enough to conquer agony -- to conquer love : she should feel again what she had felt when Lucy stood by her , when Philip 's letter had stirred all the fibres that bound her to the calmer past . 
You will come back to her . '' 
With that cry of self-despair , Maggie fell on her knees against the table , and buried her sorrow-stricken face . 
Her soul went out to the Unseen Pity that would be with her to the end . 
Surely there was something being taught her by this experience of great need ; and she must be learning a secret of human tenderness and long-suffering , that the less erring could hardly know ? 
`` O God , if my life is to be long , let me live to bless and comfort -- '' At that moment Maggie felt a startling sensation of sudden cold about her knees and feet : it was water flowing under her . 
She started up : the stream was flowing under the door that led into the passage . 
She was not bewildered for an instant -- she knew it was the flood ! 
The tumult of emotion she had been enduring for the last twelve hours seemed to have left a great calm in her : without screaming , she hurried with the candle up-stairs to Bob Jakins 's bedroom . 
The door was ajar ; she went in and shook him by the shoulder . 
She lighted his candle , while the poor wife , snatching up her baby , burst into screams ; and then she hurried down again to see if the waters were rising fast . 
cried Maggie . 
And without a moment 's shudder of fear , she plunged through the water , which was rising fast to her knees , and by the glimmering light of the candle she had left on the stairs , she mounted on to the window-sill , and crept into the boat , which was left with the prow lodging and protruding through the window . 
Bob was not long after her , hurrying without shoes or stockings , but with the lanthorn in his hand . 
`` Why , they 're both here -- both the boats , '' said Bob , as he got into the one where Maggie was `` It 's wonderful this fastening is n't broke too , as well as the mooring . '' 
In the excitement of getting into the other boat , unfastening it and mastering an oar , Bob was not struck with the danger Maggie incurred . 
The fact that Maggie had been up , had waked him , and had taken the lead in activity , gave Bob a vague impression of her as one who would help to protect , not need to be protected . 
She too had got possession of an oar , and had pushed off , so as to release the boat from the overhanging window-frame . 
And if I let go the boat ... but you , '' he exclaimed , suddenly lifting the light of his lanthorn on Maggie , as she stood in the rain with the oar in her hand and her black hair streaming . 
Maggie had no time to answer , for a new tidal current swept along the line of the houses , and drove both the boats out on to the wide water , with a force that carried them far past the meeting current of the river . 
In the first moments Maggie felt nothing , thought of nothing , but that she had suddenly passed away from that life which she had been dreading : it was the transition of death , without its agony -- and she was alone in the darkness with God . 
The whole thing had been so rapid -- so dream-like -- that the threads of ordinary association were broken : she sank down on the seat clutching the oar mechanically , and for a long while had no distinct conception of her position . 
The first thing that waked her to fuller consciousness , was the cessation of the rain , and a perception that the darkness was divided by the faintest light , which parted the overhanging gloom from the immeasurable watery level below . 
She was driven out upon the flood : -- that awful visitation of God which her father used to talk of -- which had made the nightmare of her childish dreams . 
And with that though there rushed in the vision of the old home -- and Tom -- and her mother -- they had all listened together . 
she cried out , in the dim loneliness . 
They might be in danger -- in distress : her mother and her brother , alone there , beyond reach of help ! 
Her whole soul was strained now on that thought ; and she saw the long-loved faces looking for help into the darkness , and finding none . 
She was floating in smooth water now -- perhaps far on the over-flooded fields . 
There was no sense of present danger to check the outgoing of her mind to the old home ; and she strained her eyes against the curtain of gloom that she might seize the first sight of her whereabout -- that she might catch some faint suggestion of the spot towards which all her anxieties tended . 
Yes -- she must be out on the fields -- those were the tops of hedgerow trees . 
Looking behind her , she saw the lines of black trees : looking before her there were none : then , the river lay before her . 
She seized an oar and began to paddle the boat forward with the energy of wakening hope : the dawning seemed to advance more swiftly , now she was in action ; and she could soon see the poor dumb beasts crowding piteously on a mound where they had taken refuge . 
Onward she paddled and rowed by turns in the growing twilight : her wet clothes clung round her , and her streaming hair was dashed about by the wind , but she was hardly conscious of any bodily sensations -- except a sensation of strength , inspired by mighty emotion . 
Along with the sense of danger and possible rescue for those long-remembered beings at the old home , there was an undefined sense of reconcilement with her brother : what quarrel , what harshness , what unbelief in each other can subsist in the presence of a great calamity , when all the artificial vesture of our life is gone , and we are all one with each other in primitive mortal needs ? 
Vaguely , Maggie felt this ; -- in the strong resurgent love towards her brother that swept away all the later impressions of hard , cruel offence and misunderstanding , and left only the deep , underlying , unshakable memories of early union . 
But now there was a large-dark mass in the distance , and near to her Maggie could discern the current of the river . 
Ah , now she knew which way to look for the first glimpse of the well-known trees -- the grey willows , the now yellowing chestnuts -- and above them the old roof ! 
More and more strongly the energies seemed to come and put themselves forth , as if her life were a stored-up force that was being spent in this hour , unneeded for any future . 
She must get her boat into the current of the Floss , else she would never be able to pass the Ripple , and approach the house : this was the thought that occurred to her , as she imagined with more and more vividness the state of things round the old home . 
But then she might be carried very far down , and be unable to guide her boat out of the current again . 
For the first time distinct ideas of danger began to press upon her ; but there was no choice of courses , no room for hesitation , and she floated into the current . 
Swiftly she went now , without effort ; more and more clearly in the lessening distance and the growing light she began to discern the objects that she knew must be the wellknown trees and roofs ; nay , she was not far off a rushing muddy current that must be the strangely altered Ripple . 
there were floating masses in it , that might dash against her boat as she passed , and cause her to perish too soon . 
For the first time Maggie 's heart began to beat in an agony of dread . 
She sat helpless -- dimly conscious that she was being floated along -- more intensely conscious of the anticipated clash . 
But the horror was transient : it passed away before the oncoming warehouses of St Ogg 's : she had passed the mouth of the Ripple , then : now , she must use all her skill and power to manage the boat and get it if possible out of the current . 
She could see now that the bridge was broken down : she could see the masts of a stranded vessel far out over the watery field . 
With new resolution , Maggie seized her oar , and stood up again to paddle ; but the now ebbing tide added to the swiftness of the river , and she was carried along beyond the bridge . 
She could hear shouts from the windows overlooking the river , as if the people there were calling to her . 
It was not till she had passed on nearly to Tofton that she could get the boat clear of the current . 
Then with one yearning look towards her uncle Deane 's house that lay farther down the river , she took to both her oars and rowed with all her might across the watery fields , back towards the Mill . 
Colour was beginning to awake now , and as she approached the Dorlcote fields , she could discern the tints of the trees -- could see the old Scotch firs far to the right , and the home chestnuts -- Oh ! 
With panting joy that she was there at last -- joy that overcame all distress , Maggie neared the front of the house . 
At first she heard no sound : she saw no object moving . 
Her boat was on a level with the up-stairs windows . 
She called out in a loud piercing voice , `` Tom , where are you ? 
Here is Maggie ! '' 
Soon , from the window of the attic in the central gable , she heard Tom 's voice : `` Who is it ? 
`` It is I , Tom -- Maggie . 
`` She is not here : she went to Garum , the day before yesterday . 
`` Alone , Maggie ? '' 
Give me the oars , Maggie . '' 
It was not till Tom had pushed off and they were on the wide water -- he face to face with Maggie -- that the full meaning of what had happened rushed upon his mind . 
They sat mutely gazing at each other : Maggie with eyes of intense life looking out from a weary , beaten face -- Tom pale with a certain awe and humilitation . 
Maggie could make no answer but a long deep sob of that mysterious wondrous happiness that is one with pain . 
As soon as she could speak , she said , `` We will go to Lucy , Tom : we 'll go and see if she is safe , and then we can help the rest . '' 
Tom rowed with untired vigour , and with a different speed from poor Maggie 's . 
`` Park House stands high up out of the flood , '' said Maggie . 
`` It is coming , Maggie ! '' 
The tomb bore the names of Tom and Maggie Tulliver , and below the names it was written -- `` In their death they were not divided . '' 
