`` Well , mother , now , if you feel able , just rest on my shoulder , and Tina will take the bundle . 
You take it , Tina , and we 'll find a place to rest . '' 
`` We did n't mind walking , the weather is so pleasant , '' said the boy ; `` and Tina and I like walking ; but mother got sick a day or two ago , and ever since she has been so tired ! '' 
`` Eglantine Percival , '' said the little girl , turning towards the old woman , as if she disdained to answer the other party in the conversation . 
`` Mother and Harry called me Tina , '' said the child . 
`` That showed she 'd got a grain o ' sense left , anyhow . 
She 's tol ` able strong and well-limbed for her age , '' added that lady , feeling of the child 's arms and limbs ; `` her flesh is solid . 
I think she 'll make a strong woman , only put her to work early and keep her at it . 
I could rub out clothes at the wash-tub afore I was at her age . '' 
`` O , she can do considerable many little chores , '' said Old Crab 's wife . 
He wondered that she did not come to meet him as the cart drove up to the house , and his first inquiry , when he saw the friendly old woman , was , `` Where is Tina ? '' 
`` She 's gone to live with hissister , '' said Mrs. Smith , in an undertone , pointing to her husband in the back yard . 
`` Asphyxia 's took her to raise . '' 
`` Why , to fetch her up , -- teach her to work , '' said the little old woman . 
The child had not thought of complaining ; but as soon as he was alone with Mrs. Smith , he came to her confidentially and said , `` How far is it to where Tina lives ? '' 
`` Ca n't I go over there to-night and see her ? '' 
`` I 'm not so very tired , '' said the boy ; `` but I want to see Tina . 
She 's my only sister , and my mother told me to take care of her ; and I oughtto see her sometimes . '' 
It wo n't do to rile him , I tell you . 
He 's awful , once git his back up . '' 
`` Please do ask himto let me go and see Tina , '' he said , persuasively . 
If Iask him to do a thing , he 's all the more set agin it . 
He never does nothin ' Iask him to . 
When he 's gone to mill , I 'll speak to the men , and tell 'em to let ye slip off . 
She was gone , just as she had told him , and left him and little Tina alone in the world . 
they have taken away Tina ; and she 's a very little girl , and can not work , as I can . 
Please do take care of Tina , and make them let me go and see her . '' 
WHEN Miss Asphyxia shut the door finally on little Tina , the child began slowly to gather up her faculties from the stunning , benumbing influence of the change which had come over her life . 
In former days her father had told her stories of little girls that were carried off to giants ' houses , and there maltreated and dominated over in very dreadful ways ; and Miss Asphyxia presented herself to her as one of these giants . 
She was so terribly strong , the child felt instinctively , in every limb , that there was no getting away from her . 
Her eyes were so keen and searching , her voice so sharp , all her movements so full of a vigor that might be felt , that any chance of getting the better of her by indirect ways seemed hopelessly small . 
If she should try to run away to find Harry , she was quite sure that Miss Asphyxia could make a long arm that would reach her before she had gone far ; and then what she would do to her was a matter that she dared not think of . 
Even when she was not meaning to be cross to her , but merely seized and swung her into a chair , she had such a grip that it almost gave pain ; and what would it be if she seized her in wrath ? 
No ; there was evidently no escape ; and , as the thought came over the child , she began to cry , -- first sobbing , and then , as her agitation increased , screaming audibly . 
she said . 
`` I will be good , -- I will stop , '' said the child , in mortal terror , compressing the sobs that seemed to tear her little frame . 
`` That ` ere 's goin ' to be a regular limb , '' she said ; `` but I must begin as I 'm goin ' to go on with her , and mebbe she 'll amount to suthin ' by and by . 
The kind of life that the little Tina led , under the care of Miss As phyxia , resembled that of these poor clovers . 
She was roused at the first glimmer of early dawn , dressing herself in the dark , and , coming out , set the table for breakfast . 
From that time through the day , one task followed another in immediate succession , with the sense of the ever-driving Miss Asphyxia behind her . 
Once , in the course of her labors , she let fall a saucer , while Miss Asphyxia , by good fortune , was out of the room . 
To tell of her mischance , and expose herself to the awful consequences of her anger , was more than her childish courage was equal to ; and , with a quick adroitness , she slipped the broken fragments in a crevice between the kitchen doorstep and the house , and endeavored to look as if nothing had occurred . 
she had not counted on Miss Asphyxia 's unsleeping vigilance of hearing . 
She was down stairs in a trice . 
`` Tina Percival , '' said Miss Asphyxia , in warlike tones , `` do you speak out plain , or I 'll box yer ears . '' 
`` They would n't let me , Tina , '' said Harry , drawing his sister into a little recess made between the church and the horse-block , -- an old-fashioned structure that used to exist for the accommodation of those who came to church on horseback . 
`` O Harry , I do n't like her , -- she is cross to me . 
`` Where could we go , Tina ? '' 
I hate her . 
I wo n't stay with her . 
But to-day he was determined to have something done about Tina , and so he began , `` Please , wo n't you ask him to let me go and see Tina to-night ? 
MATTERS between Miss Asphyxia and her little subject began to show evident signs of approaching some crisis , for which that valiant virgin was preparing herself with mind resolved . 
It was one of her educational tactics that children , at greater or less intervals , would require what she was wont to speak of as goodwhippings , as a sort of constitutional stimulus to start them in the ways of well-doing . 
As a school-teacher , she was often fond of rehearsing her experiences , -- how she had her eye on Jim or Bob through weeks of growing carelessness or obstinacy or rebellion , suffering the measure of iniquity gradually to become full , until , in an awful hour , she pounced down on the culprit in the very blossom of his sin , and gave him such a lesson as he would remember , as she would assure him , the longest day he had to live . 
As the child grew more accustomed to Miss Asphyxia , while her hatred of her increased , somewhat of that native hardihood which had characterized her happier days returned ; and she began to use all the subtlety and secretiveness which belonged to her feminine nature in contriving how notto do the will of her tyrant , and yet not to seem designedly to oppose . 
In all her daily toils she made nice calculations how slow she could possibly be , how blundering and awkward , without really bringing on herself a punishment ; and when an acute and capable child turns all its faculties in such a direction , the results may be very considerable . 
Miss Asphyxia found many things going wrong in her establishment in most unaccountable ways . 
One morning her sensibilities were almost paralyzed , on opening her milk-room door , to find there , with creamy whiskers , the venerable Tom , her own model cat , -- a beast who had grown up in the very sanctities of household decorum , and whom she was sure she had herself shut out of the house , with her usual punctuality , at nine o'clock the evening before . 
She could not dream that he had been enticed through Tina 's window , caressed on her bed , and finally sped stealthily on his mission of revenge , while the child returned to her pillow to gloat over her success . 
Miss Asphyxia also , in more than one instance , in her rapid gyrations , knocked down and destroyed a valuable bit of pottery or earthen-ware , that somehow had contrived to be stationed exactly in the wind of her elbow or her hand . 
It was the more vexatious because she broke them herself . 
True , she caught many a hasty cuff and sharp rebuke ; but , with true Indian spirit , she did not mind singeing her own fingers if she only tortured her enemy . 
Besides , all I could do , Tina would follow me , and I had to turn back and carry her home . 
Tina has bad times there . 
`` Because I wanted to see Tina . 
She 's my sister ; and my mother told me to take care of her ; and it 's wicked to keep us apart so . '' 
`` Going to look for a better place , where I can take care of Tina , '' said the boy . 
`` I do n't want any supper , '' said the child ; `` but if you 'll give me a little basket of things , -- I want 'em for Tina . '' 
He would take his sister , and they would wander off , a long , long way , till they came to better people , and then he would try again to get work , and ask some good woman to be kind to Tina . 
Such , in substance , was the plan that occurred to the child ; and accordingly that night , after little Tina had laid her head on her lonely pillow , she heard a whispered call at her window . 
The large , bright eyes opened very wide as she sat up in bed and looked towards the window , where Harry 's face appeared . 
`` It 's me , Tina , -- I 've come back , -- be very still . 
`` No , Tina , that would n't do ; lie still . 
The child 's heart was beating like a trip-hammer ; there was a tingling in her ears ; but she kept her little eyes tightly shut . 
`` O , here 's that brown towel I gin her to hem , '' said Miss Asphyxia , peacefully . 
`` She 's done her stent this arternoon . 
`` Her eyes was looking right at me , like live coals , '' he said ; `` and she had up her hand as if she 'd ` a ' struck me ; and I grew all over cold as a stone . '' 
`` Now , Tina , you must n't wish such things really , '' said the boy , somewhat shocked at such very extreme measures . 
I hate her -- most as much as I love you ! '' 
`` But , Tina , mother always told us it was wicked to hate anybody . 
`` I ca n't help thinking , '' said Tina ; `` and when I think , I am soangry ! 
she said , striking her little breast ; `` it 's just like fire ! '' 
`` Then do n't think about her at all , '' said the boy ; `` it is n't pleasant to feel that way . 
she seems just like mother ! '' 
`` Yes , Tina , I amglad , '' said the boy , with a steady , quiet , inward sort of light in his eyes ; `` but , baby , we ca n't stop to say so much , because we must walk fast and get way , way , way off before daylight ; and you know Miss Sphyxy always gets up early , -- do n't she ? '' 
She always poked me out of bed before it was light , -- hateful old thing ! 
`` Now , Tina , darling , you should n't run so wild . 
said Tina , kindling up with that inconsiderate exultation in the powers of an elder brother which belongs to childhood . 
`` Now , Tina , '' said the boy , as he stopped to watch the long bars of crimson and gold that seemed to be drawing back and opening in the eastern sky , where the sun was flaring upward an expectant blaze of glory , `` only look there ! 
`` Set me on the fence , so as I can see , '' said Tina . 
`` Hurry , Tina ! 
`` Cuddle down here , Tina , '' said Harry , in a whispering voice , as if he feared the driver in the rattling farm-wagon might hear them . 
said Tina . 
`` No , indeed , Tina ; we are safe now , '' said the boy . 
`` And nice old Sol , -- he gave us his pie , '' said Tina . 
`` You know , Tina , '' said the boy , in a slow , considerate way , `` that we must take care of this , because we do n't know when we 'll get any more . 
`` O , hush , Tina , he 's coming ! 
said Tina , with a shriek of delight . 
said Tina , laughing so hard at Harry 's wit that she was obliged to lay down her pie . 
said Tina , contentedly . 
When they had finished their breakfast , he bethought him of his morning prayers , and made Tina kneel down beside him while he repeated psalm and hymn and prayer , in which she joined with a very proper degree of attention . 
When he had finished , she said , `` Do you know , Hensel , I have n't said my prayers a single once since I 've been at Miss Asphyxia 's ? '' 
`` Why , Tina ! '' 
`` But you say them to God , Tina . '' 
`` She is gone to heaven , Tina . '' 
`` It 's up in the sky , Tina , '' said the boy , looking up into the deep , cloudless blue of an October sky , which , to say the truth , is about as celestial a thing as a mortal child can look into ; and as he looked , his great blue eyes grew large and serious with thoughts of his mother 's last wonderful words . 
`` If it 's up in the sky , why did they dig down into the ground , and put her in that hole ? '' 
`` It is her soul that went up . 
Her body is planted like a beautiful flower . 
She will come up by and by ; and we shall see her again , if we are good children . '' 
Tina lay back on the white moss , with only a fringy bough of white-pine between her and the deep , eternal blue , where the thinnest films of white clouds were slowly sailing to and fro . 
Her spiritual musings grew , to say the truth , rather confused . 
She was now very tired with her night tramp ; and the long fringes fell over her great , dark eyes , as a flower shuts itself , and she was soon asleep . 
The boy sat watching her awhile , feeling soothed by the calm , soft sunshine , and listening to the thousand sweet lullaby-notes which Nature is humming to herself , while about her great worldhousework , in a calm October morning . 
The sun was shining warm and cloudless , and every bit of dew had long been dried ; and Tina , in refreshed spirits , proposed that they should explore the wonders of the pasture-lot , -- especially that they should find out where the river was whose waters they heard gurgling behind the leafy wall of wild vines . 
`` O Tina ! '' 
said Tina . 
`` I 'm going to take an apronful up to the tree , and put into our closet , '' said Tina ; `` and we shall have a nice store there . '' 
`` But , Tina , we ca n't live there on the rock , '' said the boy ; `` we must walk on and get to Oldtown some time . '' 
`` I declare , '' said Tina , `` I mean to take off my shoes and stockings , and wade out to that little island where those pretty white stones are . 
`` Well , Tina , wait till I can hold you . '' 
On the way , Tina made many efforts to entrap the bright rings of sunlight on the bottom , regardless of the logic with which Harry undertook to prove to her that it was nothing but the light , and that she could not catch it ; and when they came to the little white gravelly bank , they sat down and looked around them with great content . 
said Tina . 
`` I like desolate islands , '' she added , looking around her , with the air of one who had had a wide experience of the article . 
`` The banks here are so high , and the bushes so thick , that Miss Asphyxia could not find us if she were to try . 
`` Well , I think , Tina , darling , that it wo n't do for us to stay here very long , '' said Harry . 
she added , `` and it 's so warm and quiet and still , and all the birds and squirrels and butterflies are having such a good time . 
`` But where shall we sleep nights , Tina ? '' 
`` Ah , Tina ! 
So at last the little fanciful body was persuaded to wade back from her desolate island , and to set out once more on her pilgrimage . 
Tina was peculiarly enchanted with the fanciful fellowship of these butterflies . 
They realized exactly her ideal of existence , and she pointed them out to Harry as proof positive that her own notion of living on sunshine and flowers was not a bad one . 
She was quite sure that they could sleep out all night if the butterflies could , and seemed not to doubt that they would fancy her as a bedfellow . 
`` There , Harry , '' said Tina , `` now you see just how it is . 
The old woman drew out a stock of her wares , from which she selected a small , gayly-painted one , which she gave to the children ; in short , it was very soon arranged that they were to stop to supper and spend the night with her . 
Whether it was the exhilarating effect of a whole day spent on foot in the open air , or whether it was owing to the absolute perfection of the cookery , we can not pretend to say , but certain it is that the children thought they had never tasted anything better ; and Tina 's spirits became so very airy and effervescent , that she laughed perpetually , -- a state which set the young barbarians to laughing for sympathy ; and this caused all the puppies to bark at once , which made more fun ; so that , on the whole , a jollier supper company could nowhere be found . 
After sundown , when the whole party had sufficiently fatigued themselves with play and laughing , the old woman spread a skin inside the tent , where Tina lay down contentedly between Harry and one of the puppies , which she insisted upon having as her own particular bedfellow . 
`` Harry , '' said Tina , decisively , `` let 's we live here . 
`` We 'll see , Tina , '' said wise little Harry . 
They set off through the fields ; but the wind was chilly and piercing , and the bushes and grass were wet , and Tina was in a doleful state . 
`` Never mind , Tina ; by and by we 'll come to a house . '' 
They passed a spot where evidently some Indians had been camping , for there were the remains of a fire ; and Harry picked up some dry brush and refuse sticks around , and kindled it up bright for Tina to warm and dry herself . 
The children made their way up the avenue through dripping grass , and bushes that reached almost to their shoulders , and that drizzled water upon their partially dried garments in a way that made Tina shiver . 
she said , pitifully . 
Tina shuddered with some vague , inward dread , as Harry , rising on tiptoe , struck several loud blows upon it , and then waited to see who would appear . 
`` Harry , do knock again , '' said Tina , when they had waited some time . 
`` Perhaps , if we go round to the back of the house , we shall find somebody , '' said Tina ; `` it 's storming worse and worse . '' 
And the little girl plunged resolutely into the thicket of dead shrubbery , and began tearing her way through . 
`` Well , we 're in at last , '' said Tina , `` but wet through . 
Tina now resolved to explore some of the other rooms . 
She opened a door which seemed to lead into a large dining-hall . 
Tina shivered as she looked at this dreary room , and the tapping of her own little heels seemed to her like something ghostly ; so she hastened to open another door . 
`` Let me blow , Harry , '' said Tina , `` while you go and look for some more of this brushwood . 
See , '' she said triumphantly to him , when he returned , dragging in a heavy pile of brushwood , `` we 'll soon have such a fire ! '' 
-- and she stooped down over the hearth , laying the burnt ends of sticks together , and blowing till her cheeks were so aflame with zeal and exertion that she looked like a little live coal herself . 
she said , as she broke bit after bit of the brushwood . 
`` Now , Harry , '' said Tina , `` let 's dry our clothes , and then we will see what we can do in our house . '' 
`` Do you think , '' said Tina , apprehensively , `` that any giant lives here that has gone out and will come home again ? 
`` There are n't really giants now-a-days , Tina , '' said Harry ; `` those are only stories . 
`` Then we may as well live here as anybody , '' said Tina , `` and I will keep house for you . 
said Tina , `` and so many strange , pretty things in it ! 
When the little one had dried her clothes , she began , with a restless , butterfly sort of motion , to investigate more closely the various objects of the apartment . 
She opened the harpsichord , and struck a few notes , which sounded rather discordantly , as an instrument which chill and solitude had smitten with a lasting hoarseness . 
This is n't pretty , '' she said . 
I thought this was another room in here , with a fire in it , '' she said , as she lifted a curtain which hung over a recess . 
And with eager curiosity she turned the knob , and the door opened , disclosing only a sort of inner closet , which had been evidently employed for a writing-cabinet , as a writing-table stood there , and book-cases filled with books . 
said Tina , covering her eyes . 
`` She looks as if she would speak to us , '' said Tina ; `` she surely wants to say something . '' 
`` Of course it is n't in the least like mother , '' said Tina . 
There was , in fact , a lurking sparkle of haughty determination in the depths of the mournful eyes , and a firm curve to the lines of the mouth , an arching of the neck , and a proud carriage of the head , that confirmed the boy 's strictures , and indicated that , whatever sorrows might have crushed the poor heart that beat beneath that fair form , they were borne in her own strength , with no uplooking for aid . 
Tina longed to open the drawers of the cabinet beneath the picture , but Harry held her hand . 
`` Tina , dear , what would mother say ? '' 
`` But we may go through the house , and see all the rooms , '' said Tina , who had a genuine feminine passion for rummaging , and whose curiosity was piqued to the extreme point by the discoveries already made . 
said Tina ; `` and now it squeals just as if somebody was hurting it . 
Harry brought in a quantity of fruit in Tina 's little checked apron , and , like two squirrels , they stored it under the old brocade sofa . 
`` Now ever so much wood in the hall here , '' said Tina , with the providence of a little housewife ; `` because when the dark night comes we shall be afraid to go into the wood-house . '' 
Harry felt very large and very provident , and quite like a householder , as he brought armful after armful and laid it outside the door , while Tina arranged some apples to roast on the marble hearth . 
`` If we only could get something to eat every day , we might live here always , '' she said . 
Tina had insisted on keeping open the door of the cabinet where the beautiful lady was , because , she said , she must be lonesome in that dark closet by herself . 
`` No , '' he answered ; `` my name is n't Harvey , it 's Harry ; and this is my sister Tina , '' -- and immediately a pair of dark eyes looked out over his shoulder . 
`` O yes , '' said Tina ; `` and it 's such a strange old place , -- a great big house with ever so many rooms in it ! '' 
Now there was nothing in the world that little Miss Tina took more native delight in than in playing the hostess . 
To entertain was her dearest instinct , and she hastened with all speed to open before us all in the old mansion that her own rummaging and investigating talents had brought to light , chattering meanwhile with the spirit of a bobolink . 
`` You do n't know , '' she said to Sam Lawson , `` what a curious little closet there is in here , with book-cases and drawers , and a looking-glass in the door , with a curtain over it . '' 
said the little one , turning suddenly round and opening her great wide eyes full on him . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' piped Tina ; `` I had begun to be quite discouraged . 
Seeing that this remark elicited sympathy in the listeners , she added , `` I was afraid we should die there , and the robins would have to cover us up , like some children papa used to tell about . '' 
He was one of those children who retreat into themselves and make a shield of quietness and silence in the presence of many people , while Tina , on the other hand , was electrically excited , waxed brilliant in color , and rattled and chattered with as fearless confidence as a cat-bird . 
Tina came to her knee , and looked up into the dusky , homely face , in that still , earnest fashion in which children seem to study older people . 
`` You could n't do it , '' said Tina , laughing . 
`` Well , if you did turn me into a mouse , I 'd gnaw your knitting-work , '' said Tina , laying hold of Miss Mehitable 's knitting . 
`` Well , I 'd like to be a kitten , if you 'll keep a ball for me to play with , and give me plenty of milk , '' said Tina , to whom no proposition seemed to be without possible advantages . 
Tina had often heard her brother speak of finding a good woman who should take care of her ; and her face immediately became grave at this proposal . 
She seemed to study Miss Mehitable in a new way . 
she said . 
said Tina ; `` because , '' she added , in a low voice , `` I like to play sometimes , and Miss Asphyxia said that was wicked . '' 
Tina looked in the humorous , twinkling old face with a gleam of mischievous comprehension , and , throwing her arms around Miss Mehitable , said , `` Yes , I like you , and I will be your kitten . '' 
That little object , '' she said , looking over her shoulder at Tina , `` made an instant commotion in the dust and rubbish of my forlorn old garret , and brought to light a deal that I thought had gone to the moles and the bats long ago . 
We looked across to the other end of the fireplace , where Miss Tina sat perched , with great contentment , on Sam Lawson 's knee , listening with wide-open eyes to the accounts he was giving of the haunted house . 
So saying , Miss Mehitable rose , and , stepping over to the other side of the fireplace , tapped Tina lightly on the shoulder . 
`` Come , Pussy , '' she said , `` get your bonnet , and we will go home . '' 
Tina , however , stopped and left her side , and threw her arms round Harry 's neck and kissed him . 
You 'll come and see me to-morrow , '' she said . 
`` O , certainly , do come , '' said Tina , with that warm , earnest light in her eyes which seemed the very soul of hospitality . 
`` Well , Brighteyes , you may come too , '' she added , to me . 
said Tina . 
Her face was freckled ; her hair , of a carroty-yellow , was plastered closely to her head and secured by a horn comb ; her eyes were so sharp and searching , that , as she fixed them on Tina , she blinked involuntarily . 
Around her neck she wore a large string of gold beads , the brilliant gleam of which , catching the firelight , revealed itself at once to Tina 's eye , and caused her to regard the woman with curiosity . 
She appeared to have opened the door with an intention of asking a question ; but stopped and surveyed the child with a sharp expression of not very well-pleased astonishment . 
`` I thought you spoke to me , '' she said , at last , to Miss Mehitable . 
said Tina . 
persisted Tina . 
`` I mean to be good , '' said Tina , resolutely . 
I mean to be good , because you are good to me , '' and the child laid her head confidingly in Miss Mehitable 's lap . 
The dreary , lonesome great hall , with its tall , solemn-ticking clock , the wide , echoing staircase , up which Miss Mehitable had crept , shivering and alone , so many sad nights , now gave back the chirpings of Tina 's rattling gayety and the silvery echoes of her laugh , as , happy in her new lot , she danced up the stairway , stopping to ask eager questions on this and that , as anything struck her fancy . 
For Miss Tina had one of those buoyant , believing natures , born to ride always on the very top crest of every wave , -- one fully disposed to accept of good fortune in all its length and breadth , and to make the most of it at once . 
`` This is ourhome , '' she said , `` is n't it ? ' 
Tina threw her arms around Miss Mehitable 's neck and kissed her . 
It was a child 's nightgown , of just the size needed by Tina . 
She sat down by the child and began a movement towards undressing her . 
`` Shall I say my prayers to you , '' said Tina , `` before I go to bed ? '' 
Tina kneeled down by her and put her hands in hers , and said the Lord 's Prayer , and the psalm . 
She had a natural turn for elocution , this little one , and spoke her words with a grace and an apparent understanding not ordinary in childhood . 
`` There 's a hymn , besides , '' she said . 
Tina repeated , -- She had an earnest , half-heroic way of repeating , and as she gazed into her listener 's eyes she perceived , by a subtile instinct , that what she was saying affected her deeply . 
She stopped , wondering . 
Tina continued , with enthusiasm , feeling that she was making an impression on her auditor : -- `` O my child , where did you learn that hymn ? '' 
`` It was mamma 's hymn , '' said Tina . 
There is one more verse , '' she added . 
The sound of her own voice seemed to startle her . 
She sighed deeply , and kissed the child . 
It does me good to hear you , '' she said . 
The child had entered so earnestly , so passionately even , into the spirit of the words she had been repeating , that she seemed to Miss Mehitable to be transfigured into an angel messenger , sent to inspire faith in God 's love in a darkened , despairing soul She put her into bed ; but Tina immediately asserted her claim to an earthly nature by stretching herself exultingly in the warm bed , with an exclamation of vivid pleasure . 
she said . 
she added , with a scowl and a frown , which made the angelhood of the child more than questionable . 
It was not a child of heaven , but a little mortal sinner , that she was tucking up for the night ; and she felt constrained to essay her first effort at moral training . 
`` My dear , '' she said , `` did you not say , to-night , ` Forgive us our trespasses , aswe forgive those who trespass against us ' ? 
`` O yes , '' said Tina , readily . 
At last she said , in a modified voice : `` Well , I wo n't hate her any more . 
But , '' she added , with increased vivacity , `` I may think she 's hateful , may n't I ? '' 
Tina looked at Miss Mehitable earnestly , as if she were pondering the remark . 
`` She told me that she was put to work younger than I was , '' she said , `` and kept at it all the time . '' 
`` Well , then , I 'm sorry for her , '' said Tina . 
said Tina . 
She would tell me to say my prayers , and then bang the door so hard , and I would feel cross , and think I would n't . 
When I laid my little Tina down to sleep to-night , I came down here to think over this strange , new thought , -- that I , even I , in my joyless old age , my poverty , my perplexities , my loneliness , am no longer alone ! 
I have given these two letters as the best means of showing to the reader the character of the family with whom my destiny and that of Tina became in future life curiously intertwisted . 
` Mis ' Badger , ' says I , ` perfessin ai n't possessin , and I 'd ruther stand outside the church than go on as some people do inside on ` t. ' '' Therefore it was that a day or two after , when Miss Mehitable was making a quiet call at my grandmother 's , and the party , consisting of my grandmother , Aunt Lois , and Aunt Keziah , were peacefully rattling their knitting-needles , while Tina was playing by the river-side , the child 's senses were suddenly paralyzed by the sight of Miss Asphyxia driving with a strong arm over the bridge near my grandmother 's . 
Here her eye rested severely on Tina . 
Here there was a severe glance at Miss Tina , who quailed before it , and clung to Miss Mehitable 's gown . 
`` Yes , indeed , you may hide your head , '' she continued , `` but you ca n't git away from the truth ; not when I 'm round to bring you out . 
Here Miss Asphyxia elevated her nose and sniffed over my grandmother 's cap-border in a very contemptuous manner , and the cap-border bristled defiantly , but undismayed , back again . 
Here Tina made a sudden impulsive dart from Miss Mehitable 's lap , and ran out of the back door , and over to her new home , and up into the closet of the chamber where was hanging the new suit of homespun in which Miss Asphyxia had arrayed her . 
said Miss Mehitable , reprovingly ; but Tina saw my grandmother 's broad shoulders joggling with a secret laugh , and discerned twinkling lines in the reproving gravity which Miss Mehitable tried to assume . 
said Tina . 
Come here , my poor little dear , '' said she to Tina , with one of her impulsive outgushes of motherliness . 
Now there was an indiscreet championship of Miss Tina , a backing of her in her treatment of Miss Asphyxia , in this overflow , which Aunt Lois severely disapproved , and which struck Miss Mehitable as not being the very best thing to enforce her own teachings of decorum and propriety . 
`` And does 'em good , too , '' said my grandmother , who reappeared from the buttery , with Miss Tina tilting and dancing before her , with a confirmatory slice of bread and butter and sugar in her hand . 
said she , giving the child a jovial chuck under her little chin . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Miss Tina ; `` I 'd like to have old nasty Sphyxy see me now . '' 
my dear , '' said grandmother ; `` good little girls do n't call names '' ; -- but at the same time the venerable gentlewoman nodded and winked in the most open manner across the curly head at Miss Mehitable , and her portly shoulders shook with laughter , so that the young culprit was not in the least abashed at the reproof . 
Miss Tina , upon this hint , gladly ran off to finish an architectural structure of pebbles by the river , which she was busy in building at the time when the awful vision of Miss Asphyxia appeared ; and my grandmother returned to her buttery to attend to a few matters which had been left unfinished in the morning 's work . 
And this threefold cord is composed of myself , Harry , and Tina . 
Such as they were , they suited us well , -- mine in particular , because upon it I could draw Tina to school ; for already , children as we were , things had naturally settled themselves between us . 
She was supreme mistress , and I the too happy slave , only anxious to be permitted to do her bidding . 
With Harry and me she assumed the negligent airs of a little empress . 
She gave us her books to carry , called on us to tie her shoes , charged us to remember her errands , got us to learn her lessons for her , and to help her out with whatever she had no mind to labor at ; and we were only too happy to do it . 
Harry was the most doting of brothers , and never could look on Tina in any other light than as one whom he must at any price save from every care and every exertion ; and as for me , I never dreamed of disputing her supremacy . 
One may , perhaps , wonder how a person so extremely aristocratic in all her ideas of female education as Miss Mehitable should commit her little charge to the chance comradeship and unselect society of the district school . 
But Miss Mehitable , like many another person who has undertaken the task of bringing up a human being , found herself reduced to the doing of a great many things which she had never expected to do . 
She prepared for her work in the most thorough manner ; she read Locke and Milton , and Dr. Gregory 's `` Legacy to his Daughter , '' and Mrs. Chapone on the bringing up of girls , to say nothing of Miss Hannah More and all the other wise people ; and , after forming some of the most carefully considered and select plans of operation for herself and her little charge , she was at length driven to the discovery that in education , as in all other things , people who can not do as they would must do as they can . 
In vain Miss Mehitable had written a nice card , marking out regular hours for sewing , for reading , for geography and grammar , with suitable intervals of amusement ; and in vain Miss Tina , with edifying enthusiasm , had promised , with large eyes and most abundant eloquence , and with many overflowing caresses , to be `` so good . '' 
when it came to carrying out the programme , all alone in the old house , Mondays , Tuesdays , Wednesdays , Thursdays , Fridays , and all days , Tina gaped and nestled , and lost her thimble and her needle , and was infinite in excuses , and infinite in wheedling caresses , and arguments , enforced with flattering kisses , in favor of putting off the duties now of this hour and then of that , and substituting something more to her fancy . 
She had a thousand plans of her own for each passing hour , and no end of argument and eloquence to persuade her old friend to follow her ways , -- to hear her read an old ballad instead of applying herself to her arithmetic lesson , or listen to her recital of something that she had just picked out of English history , or let her finish a drawing that she was just inspired to commence , or spend a bright , sunny hour in flower-gatherings and rambles by the brown river-side ; whence she would return laden with flowers , and fill every vase in the old , silent room till it would seem as if the wilderness had literally blossomed as the rose . 
Tina 's knack for the arranging of vases and twining of vines and sorting of wild-flowers amounted to a species of genius ; and , as it was something of which Miss Mehitable had not the slightest comprehension , the child took the lead in this matter with a confident assurance . 
Every night she went to bed with an unquiet conscience , sensible that , though she had had an entertaining day , she had been letting Tina govern her , instead of governing Tina . 
Over that grave supposed necessity of governing Tina , this excellent woman groaned in spirit on many a night after the little wheedling tongue had become silent , and the bright , deluding eyes had gone down under their fringy lashes . 
But somehow or other Tina had contrived to throw over this grimmest and most Calvinistic of virgins the glamour of her presence , so that she ruled , reigned , and predominated in the most awful sanctuaries of Polly 's kitchen , with a fearfully unconcerned and negligent freedom . 
Even Miss Mehitable had always been politely requested to step out of the kitchen when Polly was composing her mind for this serious work , but yet Tina neglected her geography and sewing to be present , chattered all the time , as Polly remarked , like a grist-mill , tasted the sugar and spices , and helped herself at intervals to the savory composition as it was gradually being put together , announcing her opinions , and giving Polly her advice , with an effrontery to which Polly 's submission was something appalling . 
Miss Mehitable really wondered if this could be the same Polly of whom she herself stood in a certain secret awe , whose premises she never invaded , and whose will over and about her had been always done instead of her own ; but if she ventured to open the kitchen door and recall Tina , she was sure to be vigorously snubbed by Polly , who walked over all her own precepts and maxims in the most shameless and astonishing manner . 
Polly , however , made up for her own compliances by heaping up censures on poor Miss Mehitable when Tina had gone to bed at night . 
Yet , in any particular case that arose , Polly was always sure to go over to Tina 's side and back her usurpations . 
For example , it is to be confessed that Tina never could or would be got to bed at those hours which are universally admitted to be canonical for well-brought-up children . 
As night drew on , the little one 's tongue ran with increasing fluency , and her powers of entertainment waxed more dizzy and dazzling ; and so , oftentimes , as the drizzling , freezing night shut in , and the wind piped and howled lonesomely round the corners of the dusky old mansion , neither of the two forlorn women could find it in her heart to extinguish the little cheerful candle of their dwelling in bed ; and so she was to them ballet and opera as she sung and danced , mimicked the dog , mimicked the cat and the hens and the tom-turkey , and at last talked and flew about the room like Aunt Lois , stirred up butter and pshawed like grandma , or invented imaginary scenes and conversations , or improvised unheard-of costumes out of strange old things she had rummaged out of Miss Mehitable 's dark closets . 
Neither of the two worthy women had ever seen the smallest kind of dramatic representation , so that Tina 's histrionic powers fascinated them by touching upon dormant faculties , and seemed more wonderful for their utter novelty ; and more than once , to the poignant self-reproach of Miss Mehitable , and Polly 's most moral indignation , nine o'clock struck , in the inevitable tones of the old family timepiece , before they were well aware what they were doing . 
Then Tina would be hustled off to bed , and Polly would preach Miss Mehitable a strenuous discourse on the necessity of keeping children to regular hours , interspersed with fragments of quotations from one of her venerable father 's early sermons on the Christian bringing up of households . 
The consequence was , that Tina rode to school on our sleds in triumph , and made more fun , and did more mischief , and learned less , and was more adored and desired , than any other scholar of us all . 
Our good fortune received its crowning stroke in our eyes when , running over to Miss Mehitable 's with the news , we found that Lady Lothrop had considerately included Tina in the invitation . 
Tina was perched on the knee of my lady 's maid , a starched , prim woman who had grown up and dried in all the most sacred and sanctified essences of genteel propriety . 
She was the very crispness of old-time decorum , brought up to order herself lowly and reverently to all her betters , and with a secret conviction that , aside from Lady Lothrop , the whole of the Oldtown population were rather low Dissenters , whom she was required by the rules of Christian propriety to be kind to . 
Tina had been talked to and schooled rigorously by Miss Mehitable as to propriety of manner during this ride ; and , as Miss Mehitable well knew what a chatterbox she was , she exacted from her a solemn promise that she would only speak when she was spoken to . 
Mrs. Margery felt as if the Sunday cap of the only supporter of the true Church in the dark and heathen parish of Oldtown was a subject not to be lightly or unadvisedly considered ; and , there fore , she told at great length how she had intended to pack it first all together , -- how she had altered her mind and taken off the bow , and packed that in a little box by itself , and laid the strings out flat in the box , -- what difficulties had met her in folding the velvet dress , -- and how she had at first laid it on top of the trunk , but had decided at last that the black lutestring might go on top of that , because it was so much lighter , & c. , & c. , & c. Lady Lothrop was so much accustomed to this species of monologue , that it is quite doubtful if she heard a word of it ; but poor Tina , who felt within herself whole worlds of things to say , from the various objects upon the road , of which she was dying to talk and ask questions , wriggled and twisted upon Mrs. Margery 's knee , and finally gave utterance to her pent-up feelings in deep sighs . 
`` I just want to say , ` O Lord , open thou my lips , ' said Tina , with effusion . 
said Tina , pathetically ; `` but I promised Miss Mehitable I would n't speak unless I was spoken to , '' she added , with an air of virtuous resolution . 
`` O , thank you ever so much , '' said Tina ; and from this moment , as a little elfin butterfly bursts from a cold , gray chrysalis , Tina rattled and chattered and sparkled , and went on with verveand gusto that quite waked us all up . 
she said , as she began with her trembling fingers to undo Tina 's bonnetstrings . 
Here , I 'll hold the little lady , '' she said , as she put Tina on her knee . 
The child nestled her head down on her bosom as lovingly and confidingly as if she had known her all her days . 
There was something even grand about the fervor of this sentence as she uttered it , and Tina put up her hand with a caressing gesture around the withered old neck . 
`` And this , '' she added , turning to Tina , `` is Miss Tina Percival , I understand ? 
and then he turned to Tina . 
`` Here 's a little lady will be more gracious , I know , '' and he stooped and attempted to kiss her . 
The little lady drew her head back and repulsed him with the dignity of a young princess . 
`` Only by proper persons , '' said Tina , with that demure gravity which she could at times so whimsically assume , but sending with the words a long mischievous flash from under her downcast eyelashes . 
`` That 's past praying for , anyhow , '' said he , looking with admiration at the dimpling , sparkling face of Tina , who evidently was dying to answer him back . 
Tina obstinately refused to take his hand , and insisted upon walking only with Harry , though from time to time she cast glances at him over her shoulder , and he called her `` a little chip of mother Eve 's block , '' -- at which she professed to feel great indignation . 
We gazed with delighted awe at the chancel and the altar , with their massive draperies of crimson looped back with heavy gold cord and tassels , and revealing a cloud of little winged cherubs , whereat Tina 's eyes grew large with awe , as if she had seen a vision . 
Tina , who stood between Ellery Davenport and the old lady , seemed , to tell the truth , much too conscious of the amused attention with which he was regarding her little movements , notwithstanding the kindly efforts of her venerable guardian to guide her through the service . 
Harry and I both had a very nice little nap during sermon-time , while Ellery Davenport made a rabbit of his pocket-handkerchief by way of paying his court to Tina , who sat shyly giggling and looking at him . 
We children went and stood up with the row of men and maid servants , and Harry proved to have a very good knowledge of the catechism , but Tina and I only compassed our answers by repeating them after Miss Debby ; and she applied herself to teaching us as if this were the only opportunity of getting the truth we were ever to have in our lives . 
This first question , as being easiest , was put to Tina , who dimpled and colored and flashed out of her eyes , as she usually did when addressed , looked shyly across at Ellery Davenport , who sat with an air of negligent amusement contemplating the scene , and then answered with sufficient precision and distinctness , `` Eglantine Percival . '' 
He gave a little start , as if some sudden train of recollection had been awakened , and looked at her with intense attention ; and when Ellery Davenport fixed his attention upon anybody , there was so much fire and electricity in his eyes that they seemed to be felt , even at a distance ; and I saw that Tina constantly colored and giggled , and seemed so excited that she scarcely knew what she was saying , till at last Miss Debby , perceiving this , turned sharp round upon him , and said , `` Ellery Davenport , if you have n't any religion yourself , I wish you would n't interrupt my instructions . '' 
In bidding our adieus for the night , it was customary for good children to kiss all round ; but Tina , in performing this ceremony both this night and the night before , resolutely ignored Ellery Davenport , notwithstanding his earnest petitions ; and , while she would kiss with ostentatious affection those on each side of him , she hung her head and drew back whenever he attempted the familiarity , yet , by way of reparation , turned back at the door as she was going out , and made him a parting salutation with the air of a princess ; and I heard him say , `` Upon my word , how she does it ! '' 
After we left the room -LRB- this being a particular which , like tellers of stories in general , I learned from other sources -RRB- , he turned to Lady Lothrop and said : `` Did I understand that she said her name was Eglantine Percival , and that she is a sort of foundling ? '' 
`` Well , '' said Ellery Davenport , `` I knew a young English officer by the name of Percival , who was rather a graceless fellow . 
I was stunned and overwhelmed by the great intelligence , and Harry and I ran over to tell it to Tina , who jumped about and hugged and kissed us both with an impartiality which some years later she quite forgot to practise . 
`` I 'm glad , because you like it , '' she said ; `` but I should think it would be horried to study Latin . '' 
She had been interested in my story , as it appears , to some purpose , and , being wealthy and without a son , had resolved to console herself by appropriating to the education of a poor boy a portion of the wealth which should have gone to her own child . 
As to Tina , of course she insisted upon it that we should occasionally carry her in a lady-chair over to this island , that she might inspect our operations and our housekeeping , and we read some of these sketches to her for her critical approbation ; and if any of them pleased her fancy , she would immediately insist that we should come over to Miss Mehitable 's , and have a dramatic representation of them up in the garret . 
Our Saturday afternoons were generally spent as Tina dictated ; and , as she had a decided taste for the drama , one of our most common employments was the improvising of plays , with Miss Tina for stage manager . 
I remember our acting , at one time , the Book of Esther , with Tina , very much be-trinketed and dressed out in an old flowered brocade that she had rummaged from a trunk in the garret , as Queen Esther . 
The great trouble was to find a Haman ; but , as the hanging of Haman was indispensable to any proper moral effect of the tragedy , Tina petted and cajoled and coaxed old Bose , the yellow dog of our establishment , to undertake the part , instructing him volubly that he must sulk and look cross when Mordecai went by , -- a thing which Bose , who was one of the best-natured of dogs , found difficulty in learning . 
Bose would always insist upon sitting on his haunches , in his free-and-easy , jolly manner , and lolling out his red tongue in a style so decidedly jocular as utterly to spoil the effect , till Tina , reduced to desperation , ensconced herself under an old quilted petticoat behind him , and brought out the proper expression at the right moment by a vigorous pull at his tail . 
Bose was a dog of great constitutional equanimity , but there were some things that transcended even his powers of endurance , and the snarl that he gave to Mordecai was held to be a triumphant success ; but the thing was , to get him to snarl when Tina was in front of him , where she could see it ; and now will it be believed that the all-conquering little mischief-maker actually kissed and flattered and bejuggled old Polly into taking this part behind the scenes ? 
So we compromised by passing the rope under his fore paws , or , as Tina called it , `` under his arms . '' 
But Bose was rheumatic , and it took all Tina 's petting and caressing , and obliged Polly to go down and hunt out two or three slices of meat from her larder , to induce him fairly to submit to the operation ; but hang him we did , and he ki-hied with a vigor that strikingly increased the moral effect . 
Tina , by the by , figured in this as the `` Genius of Liberty , '' with some stars on her head cut out of gilt paper , and wearing an old flag which we had pulled out of one of the trunks . 
We talked it over among ourselves , and Tina assured us that she dreamed about it nights ; but Polly had strictly forbidden us even to mention that corner of the garret to Miss Mehitable , or to ask her leave to look at it , alleging , as a reason , that `` ' t would bring on her hypos . '' 
Finally , one rainy Saturday afternoon , when we were tired of acting plays , and the rain pattered on the roof , and the wind howled and shook the casings , and there was a generally wild and disorganized state of affairs out of doors , a sympathetic spirit of insubordination appeared to awaken in Tina 's bosom . 
she said . 
Just at this moment there was one of those chance lulls in the storm that sometimes occur , and as Tina went in behind the barrels , and boldly turned the first picture , a ray of sunshine streamed through the dusky window and lit it up with a watery light . 
Harry and Tina both gave an exclamation of astonishment . 
`` O Tina ! 
She retreated quickly to the outside of the barrels again , and stood with us , looking at the picture . 
said Tina . 
`` How she looks at us ! 
`` You ought not to have done it , Tina , '' said Harry , in a rather low and frightened voice ; `` but I 'll go in and turn it back again . '' 
now I should like to know if there 's any mischief you would n't be up to , Tina Percival , '' she said , coming forward , reproachfully . 
said Tina , hanging upon Polly caressingly . 
`` And do n't anybody know where she is , '' said Tina , `` or if she 's alive or dead ? '' 
said Tina , after a deep-drawn sigh . 
I hope he wo n't , then , '' said Tina . 
`` But , Polly , '' she added , getting her arms round her neck and playing with her gold beads , `` youhave n't got such a very bad heart now ; I do n't believe a word of it . 
`` Law , Miss Tina , you do n't see into me , '' said Polly , who , after all , felt a sort of ameliorating gleam stealing over her . 
On these occasions , as there was a great looseness in the police department over us children , we usually found a ready refuge at Miss Mehitable 's with Tina , who , confident of the strength of her position with Polly , invited us into the kitchen , and with the air of a mistress led us around to view the proceedings there . 
A genius for entertaining was one of Tina 's principal characteristics ; and she did not fail to make free with raisins , or citron , or whatever came to hand , in a spirit of hospitality at which Polly seriously demurred . 
That worthy woman occasionally felt the inconvenience of the state of subjugation to which the little elf had somehow or other reduced her , and sometimes rattled her chains fiercely , scolding with a vigor which rather alarmed us , but which Tina minded not a whit . 
Confident of her own powers , she would , in the very midst of her wrath , mimic her to her face with such irresistible drollery as to cause the torrent of reproof to end in a dissonant laugh , accompanied by a submissive cry for quarter . 
`` I declare , Tina Percival , '' she said to her one day , `` you 're saucy enough to physic a horn-bug ! 
As soon as the candles were lighted came in Miss Mehitable with her brother Jonathan , and Tina , like a gay little tassel , hanging on her withered arm . 
Harry and I ran over instantly to tell Tina ; and Tina with all her eloquence set it forth to Miss Mehitable and Polly , and we gave vent to our emotions by an immediate rush to the garret and a dramatic representation of the whole scene of the rescue , conducted with four or five of Tina 's rag-dolls and a little old box wagon , with which we cantered and re-cantered across the garret floor in a way that would have been intolerable to any less patient and indulgent person than Miss Mehitable . 
The fact is , however , that she shared in the universal excitement to such a degree , that she put on her bonnet immediately , and rushed over to the minister 's to give vent to her feelings , while Polly , coming up garret , shouldered one of the guns lovingly , and declared she 'd `` like nothing better than to fire it off at one o ' them fellers '' ; and then she told us how , in her young days , where she was brought up in Maine , the painters -LRB- panthers -RRB- used to come round their log cabin at night , and howl and growl ; and how they always had to keep the guns loaded ; and how once her mother , during her father 's absence , had treed a painter , and kept him up in his perch for hours by threatening him whenever he offered to come down , until her husband came home and shot him . 
He cultivated a great friendship with Miss Mehitable , -- talking with her of books and literature and foreign countries , and advising her in regard to the education of Tina , with great unction and gravity . 
On this subject there were long , and , on the part of Miss Mehitable , agitating interviews , which much excited Miss Tina 's curiosity . 
I have reason to believe , also , that Ellery Davenport did succeed in making the father of Harry and Tina aware of the existence of two such promising children , and of the respectability of the families into which they had been adopted . 
Captain Percival , now Sir Harry Percival , had married again in England , so Ellery Davenport had informed Miss Mehitable in a letter , and had a son by this marriage , and so had no desire to bring to view his former connection . 
Yet she was impressed by that awful sense of responsibility which is one of the most imperative characteristics of the New England mind ; and she applied to her brother earnestly to know what she should teach Tina with regard to her own spiritual position . 
The consequence of all this was , that Tina adopted in her glad and joyous nature the simple , helpful faith of her brother , -- the faith in an ever good , ever present , ever kind Father , whose child she was and in whose household she had grown up . 
She had a most unbounded faith in prayer , and in the indulgence and tenderness of the Heavenly Power . 
All things to her eyes were seen through the halo of a cheerful , sanguine , confiding nature . 
Life had for her no cloud or darkness or mystery . 
Such , then , were we three children when Harry and I were in our eighteenth year and Tina in her fifteenth . 
Tina was now verging toward maturity ; she was in just that delicious period in which the girl has all the privileges and graces of childhood , its freedom of movement and action , brightened with a sort of mysterious aurora by the coming dawn of womanhood ; and everything indicated that she was to be one of this powerful class of womankind . 
Tina had no inconsiderable share of self-will ; she was very pronounced in her tastes , and fond of her own way ; but she had received from nature this passion for entertaining , and been endowed with varied talents in this line which made her always , from early childhood , the coveted and desired person in every circle . 
Not a visage in Oldtown was so set in grimness of care , that it did not relax its lines when it saw Tina coming down the street ; for Tina could mimic and sing and dance , and fling back joke for joke in a perfect meteoric shower . 
So long as she entertained , she was perfectly indifferent who the party was . 
She would display her accomplishments to a set of strolling Indians , or for Sam Lawson and Jake Marshall , as readily as for any one else . 
She would run up and catch the minister by the elbow as he solemnly and decorously moved down street , and his face always broke into a laugh at the sight of her . 
But when Miss Mehitable , after delighting herself with the Johnsonian balance of the rhythmical sentences which described this paragon as `` not so much perfectly beautiful as perfectly elegant , '' -- this model of consistency , who always blushed at the right moment , spoke at the right moment , and stopped at the right moment , and was , in short , a woman made to order , precisely to suit a bachelor who had traversed the whole earth , `` not expecting perfection , but looking for consistency , '' -- when , after all these charming visions , she loooked at Tina , she was perfectly dismayed at contemplating her scholar . 
She felt the power by which Tina continually charmed and beguiled her , and the empire which she exercised over her ; and , with wonderful good sense , she formally laid down the weapons of authority when she found she had no heart to use them . 
`` My child , '' she said to her one day , when that young lady was about eleven years of age , `` you are a great deal stronger than I. I am weak because I love you , and because I have been broken by sorrow , and because , being a poor old woman , I do n't trust myself . 
She was wise , shrewd , and loving , and she gradually controlled her little charge more and more by simple influence , but she had to meet in her education the opposition force of that universal petting and spoiling which everybody in society gives to an entertaining child . 
Tina was sent for to the parsonage , and the minister took her on his knee and encouraged her to chatter all sorts of egregious nonsense to him . 
Now Tina loved praises and caresses ; incense was the very breath of her nostrils ; and she enjoyed being fted and petted as much as a cat enjoys being stroked . 
Miss Mehitable sighed after thorough knowledge and discipline of mind for her charge , but she invariably found all Tina 's teachers becoming accomplices in her superficial practices by praising and caressing her when she had been least faithful , always apologizing for her deficiencies , and speaking in the most flattering terms of her talents . 
During the last year the schoolmaster had been observed always to walk home with her and bring her books , with a humble , trembling subserviency and prostrate humility which she rewarded with great apparent contempt ; and finally she announced to Miss Mehitable that she `` did n't intend to go to school any more , because the master acted so silly . '' 
Now Miss Mehitable , during all her experience of life , had always associated with the men of her acquaintance without ever being reminded in any particular manner of the difference of sex , and it was a subject which , therefore , was about the last to enter into her calculations with regard to her little charge . 
So she said , `` My dear , you shold n't speak in that way about your teacher ; he knows a great deal more than you do . '' 
She went that afternoon and visited the minister 's lady . 
Mr. Mordecai Rossiter accordingly took up his abode in the family , used to conduct family worship , and was expected now and then to drop words of good advice and wholesome counsel to form the mind of Miss Tina . 
A daily hour was appointed during which he was to superintend her progress in arithmetic . 
He accepted his charge in sacred simplicity , and took a prayerful view of his young catechumen , whom he was in hopes to make realize , by degrees , the native depravity of her own heart , and to lead through a gradual process to the best of all results . 
Miss Tina also took a view of her instructor , and without any evil intentions , simply following her strongest instinct , which was to entertain and please , she very soon made herself an exceedingly delightful pupil . 
Since religion was evidently the engrossing subject in his mind , Tina also turned her attention to it , and instructed and edified him with flights of devout eloquence which were to him perfectly astonishing . 
Tina would discourse on the goodness of God , and ornament her remarks with so many flowers , and stars , and poetical fireworks , and be so rapt and carried away with her subject , that he would sit and listen to her as if she was an inspired being , and wholly forget the analysis which he meant to propose to her , as to whether her emotions of love to God proceeded from self-love or from disinterested benevolence . 
As I have said , Tina had a genius for poetry , and had employed the dull hours which children of her age usually spend in church in reading the psalm-book and committing to memory all the most vividly emotional psalms and hymns . 
And these she was fond of repeating with great fervor and enthusiasm to her admiring listener . 
She considered Tina as a mere infant , -- as not yet having approached the age when the idea of anything like love or marriage could possibly be suggested to her . 
In course of time , however , she could not help remarking that her cousin was in some respects quite an altered man . 
He reformed many little negligences in regard to his toilet which Miss Tina had pointed out to him with the nonchalant freedom of a young empress . 
And he would run and spring and fetch and carry in her service with a zeal and alertness quite wonderful to behold . 
He expressed privately to Miss Mehitable the utmost astonishment at her mental powers , and spoke of the wonderful work of divine grace which appeared to have made such progress in her heart . 
said Miss Mehitable to herself , with a sort of half start of awakening , though not yet fully come to consciousness ; `` what does ail everybody that gets hold of Tina ? '' 
Now Miss Tina accepted this , as she did all other incense , with great satisfaction . 
Not that she had the slightest idea of taking this clumsy-footed theological follower round the world with her ; but having the highest possible respect for him , knowing that Miss Mehitable and the minister and his wife thought him a person of consideration , she had felt it her duty to pleasehim , -- had taxed her powers of pleasing to the utmost , in his own line , and had met with this gratifying evidence of success . 
My great trouble in bringing her up is , that everybody flatters her and defers to her ; but I thought that in you I had got a man that could be depended on ! '' 
`` I do notflatter her , cousin , '' replied the young minister , earnestly . 
`` You pretend you do n't flatter her ? 
did n't I hear you calling her an angel ? '' 
`` Well , I do n't care if I did ; she isan angel , '' said Mr. Mordecai Rossiter , with tears in his eyes ; `` she is the most perfectly heavenly being I ever saw ! '' 
Miss Mehitable now , much as she disliked it , felt bound to have some cautionary conversation with Miss Tina . 
`` My dear , '' she said ; `` you must be very careful in your treatment of Cousin Mordecai . 
and Tina laughed till the room rang again . 
But Miss Tina found that was not all , and was provoked beyond endurance at the question proposed to her in plain terms , whether she would not look upon her teacher as one destined in a year or two to become her husband . 
Tina was as vexed at the proposition as a young unbroken colt is at the sight of a halter . 
She cried , and said she did n't like him , she could n't bear him , and she never wanted to see him again , -- that he was silly and ridiculous to talk so to a little girl . 
`` MY DEAR Brother : -- I am in a complete embarraswhat to do with Tina . 
She is the very light of my eyes , -- the sweetest , gayest , brightest , and best-meaning little mortal that ever was made ; but somehow or other I fear I am not the one that ought to have undertaken to bring her up . 
`` She has a good deal of self-will ; so much that I have long felt it would be quite impossible for me to control her merely by authority . 
But Tina 's self-will runs in the channel of a most charming persuasiveness . 
She has all sorts of pretty phrases , and would talk a bird off from a bush , or a trout out of a brook , by dint of sheer persistent eloquence ; and she is always so delightfully certain that her way is the right one and the best for me and all concerned . 
Then she has no end of those peculiar gifts of entertainment which are rather dangerous things for a young woman . 
Tina is a little turned of fifteen ; she is going to be very beautiful ; she is very pretty now ; and , in addition to all my other perplexities , the men are beginning to talk that atrocious kind of nonsense to her which they seem to think they must talk to young girls . 
I have had to take her away from the school on account of the schoolmaster , and when I put her under the care of Cousin Mordecai Rossiter , whom I thought old enough , and discreet enough , to make a useful teacher to her , he has acted like a natural fool . 
I shall have to send Tina somewhere , -- though I ca n't bear to part with her , and it seems like taking the very sunshine out of the house ; so I remember what you told me about sending her up to you . 
We also discussed Tina in a very paternal way , and gravely considered what was best for her . 
We were , of course , properly shocked at the behavior of the schoolmaster , and greatly applauded her spirit in defending herself against his presumption . 
Then Tina had told Harry and me all about her trouble with the minister , and I remember at this time how extremely aged and venerable I felt , and what quantities of good advice I gave to Tina , which was all based on the supposition of her dangerously powerful charms and attractions . 
But how could it be helped that Tina should be educated and formed wholly unlike Harry and myself , when every address made to her from her childhood was of necessity wholly different from what would be made to a boy in the same circumstances ? 
and particularly when she carried with her always that dizzying , blinding charm which turned the head of every boy and man that undertook to talk reason to her ? 
I was to go to college , and therefrom soar to an unmeasured height of literary distinction , and when I had won trophies and laurels and renown , I was to come back and lay all at Tina 's feet . 
Tina called us both brothers , and this we agreed was the best means of preserving her artless mind unalarmed and undisturbed until the future hour of the great declaration . 
As for Tina , she absolutely could not keep anything to herself if she tried . 
Whatever agitated her mind or interested it had to be told to us . 
She did not seem able to rest satisfied with herself till she had proved to us that she was exactly right , or made us share her triumphs in her achievements , or her perplexity in her failures . 
Nobody was a better subject to preach such a sermon to than Tina . 
She would even take up the discourse and enlarge upon it , and suggest new and fanciful illustrations ; she entered into the project of Miss Mehitable with enthusiasm ; she confessed all her faults , and resolved hereafter to become a pattern of the contrary virtues . 
And then she came and related the whole conversation to us , and entered into the project of devoting herself to study with such a glow of enthusiasm , that we formed at once the most brilliant expectations . 
I do n't know anybody who could have been taken from Oldtown whose loss would have been more universally felt and deplored than little Miss Tina 's . 
In the first place , Oldtown had come into the way of regarding her as a sort of Child of the Regiment , and then Tina was one of those sociable , acquaintance-making bodies that have visited everybody , penetrated everybody 's affairs , and given a friendly lift now and then in almost everybody 's troubles . 
As for Polly , she worked night and day on Tina 's outfit , and scolded and hectored herself for certain tears that now and then dropped on the white aprons that she was ironing . 
On the night before Tina was to depart , Polly came into her room and insisted upon endowing her with her string of gold beads , the only relic of earthly vanity in which that severe female had ever been known to indulge . 
Tina was quite melted , and fell upon her neck . 
`` O Tina , child , you do n't know my heart , '' said Polly , shaking her head solemnly ; `` if you could see the depths of depravity that there are there ! '' 
but , you see , the Lord seeth not as man sees , Tina . '' 
`` I know he do n't , '' said Tina ; `` he 's a thousand times kinder , and makes a thousand more excuses for us than we ever do for ourselves or each other . 
`` O Tina , Tina , you always was a wonderful child to talk , '' said Polly , shaking her head doubtfully ; `` but then you know the heart is so deceitful , and then you see there 's the danger that we should mistake natural emotions for grace . '' 
`` O , I dare say there are all sorts of dangers , '' said Tina ; `` of course there are . 
So she said trembling : `` O Tina , did you always feel so towards God ? 
`` O , certainly , '' said Tina , `` when Miss Asphyxia used to talk to me about it , I thought I never wanted to hear of him , and I never said my prayers ; but as soon as I came to Aunty , she was so loving and kind that I began to see what God must be like , -- because I know he is kinder than she can be , or you , or anybody can be . 
The thing in this speech which gave Polly such peculiar satisfaction was the admission that there had been a definite point of time in which the feelings of her little friend had undergone a distinct change . 
Henceforth she was better satisfied , -- never reflecting how much she was trusting to a mere state of mind in the child , instead of resting her faith on the Almighty Friend who so evidently had held her in charge during the whole of her short history . 
But when he had taken Tina and her little trunk on board , and we had finished all our hand-shakings , and Polly had told us over for the fourth or fifth time exactly where she had put the cold chicken and the biscuits and the cakes and pie , and Miss Mehitable had cautioned Tina again and again to put on her shawl in case a shower should come up , and my grandmother and Aunt Lois had put in their share of parting admonitions , we at last trolled off as cheery and merry a set of youngsters as the sun ever looked upon in a dewy June morning . 
When we were riding in the wagon , Tina 's powers of entertainment were brought into full play . 
The great success of the morning was her exact imitation of a squirrel eating a nut , which she was requested to perform many times , and which she did , with variations , until at last Uncle Jacob remarked , with a grin , that `` if he should meet her and a squirrel sitting on a stone fence together , he believed he should n't know which was which . '' 
It seemed as if Tina could not be got to sleep that night , and we could hear her giggling , through the board partition that separated our room from hers , every hour of the night . 
Tina found ever so many moralities and poetical images in these mountains . 
It was like life , she said . 
We saw a tall , straight , graceful girl , who looked at us out of a pair of keen , clear , hazel eyes , with a sort of inquisitive yet not unkindly glance , but as if she meant to make up her mind about us ; and when she looked at Tina I could see that her mind was made up in a moment . 
There he still sits , in memory , with his court around him , -- Esther , with the thoughtful shadows in her eyes and the pensive Psyche profile , and Tina , ever restless , changing , enthusiastic , Harry with his sly , reticent humor and silent enjoyment , and he , our master , talking of everything under the sun , past , present , and to come , -- of the cathedrals and pictures of Europe , describing those he had not seen apparently with as minute a knowledge as those he had , -- of plants and animals , -- of the ancients and the moderns , -- of theology , metaphysics , grammar , rhetoric , or whatever came uppermost , -- always full and suggestive , startling us with paradoxes , provoking us to arguments , setting us out to run eager tilts of discussion with him , yet in all holding us in a state of unmeasured admiration . 
The first few weeks that Tina was in school , it was evident that Mr. Rossiter considered her as a spoiled child of fortune , whom the world had conspired to injure by over-much petting . 
For some time in school it seemed as if she could do nothing to please him . 
He seemed determined to put her through a sort of Spartan drill , with hard work and small praise . 
Tina had received from nature and womanhood that inspiration in dress and toilet attraction which led her always and instinctively to some little form of personal adornment . 
Every wild spray or fluttering vine in our woodland rambles seemed to suggest to her some caprice of ornamentation . 
Each day she had some new thing in her hair , -- now a feathery fern-leaf , and anon some wild red berry , whose presence just where she placed it was as picturesque as a French lithograph ; and we boys were in the habit of looking each day to see what she would wear next . 
One morning she came into school , fair as Ariadne , with her viny golden curls rippling over and around a crown of laurel-blossoms . 
She seemed to us like a little woodland poem . 
We all looked at her , and complimented her , and she received our compliments , as she always did coin of that sort , with the most undisguised and radiant satisfaction . 
`` If you had only an equal talent for ornamenting the insideof your head , '' he said to her , `` there might be some hopes of you . '' 
Tears of mortification came into Tina 's eyes , as she dashed the offending laurel-blossoms out of the window , and bent resolutely over her book . 
At recess-time she strolled out with me into the pine woods back of the school-house , and we sat down on a mossy log together , and I comforted her and took her part . 
`` I do n't care , Horace , '' she said , -- `` I do n't care ! '' 
and she dashed the tears out of her eyes . 
And true enough Miss Tina from this time brushed her curly hair straight as such rebellious curls possibly could be brushed , and dressed herself as plainly as Esther , and went at study as if her life depended on it . 
Tina , in fact , had produced quite a clever translation of the first ten lines of `` Arma virumque , '' & c. and we wondered what Mr. Rossiter would say to it . 
`` If you please , sir , '' said I , `` it 's Miss Tina Percival that wrote that . '' 
Tina 's cheeks were red enough as he handed her back her poetry . 
This scanty measure of approbation was interpreted as high praise , and we complimented Tina on her success . 
The project of making a poetical translation of Virgil , however , was not carried out , though every now and then she gave us little jets and spurts , which kept up our courage . 
It was well to have this conflict over , for I do n't believe that Tina slept one night that week without dreams of particles and prepositions , -- Tina , who was as full of the enthusiasm of everything that was going on as a flossy evening cloud is of light , and to whose health I really do believe a defeat might have caused a serious injury . 
Tina , Harry , Esther , and I were a private composition club . 
Tina insisted on reading this with us , just as of old she insisted on being carried in a lady chair over to our woodland study in the island . 
She had begun Greek with great zeal under Mr. Rossiter , but of course was in no situation to venture upon any such heights ; but she insisted upon always being with us when we were digging out our lesson , and in fact , when we were talking over doubtfully the meaning of a passage , would irradiate it with such a flood of happy conjecture as ought to have softened the stern facts of moods and tenses , and madeitself the meaning . 
She rendered some parts of it into verse much better than any of us could have done it , and her versifications , laid on Mr. Rossiter 's desk , called out a commendation that was no small triumph to her . 
`` My forte lies in picking knowledge out of other folks and using it , '' said Tina , joyously . 
O Tina , Tina , you never spoke a truer word , and while you were with us you made everything glitter with your `` no end of gold-leaf . '' 
Tina , for example , was one of those happily organized human beings in whom an intellectual proposition , fully assented to , might lie all her life dormant as the wheat-seed which remained thousands of years ungerminate in the wrappings of a mummy . 
She thought only of what she liked to think of ; and a disagreeable or painful truth in her mind dropped at once out of sight , -- it sank into the ground and roses grew over it . 
Yet there is no doubt that the warm , sunny , showery , rainbow nature of Tina acted as a constant and favorable alterative upon her . 
It was a daily living poem acting on the unused poetical and imaginative part of her own nature ; for Esther had a suppressed vigor of imagination , and a passionate capability of emotion , stronger and more intense than that of Tina herself . 
`` Yes , '' said Harry , `` Tina 's is electricity , and that snaps and sparkles and flashes ; Esther 's is galvanism , that comes in long , intense waves , and shakes and convulses ; she both thinks and feels too much on all subjects . '' 
Arrived at the parsonage , there would be Tina and Esther coming along the street to meet us . 
Tina full of careless , open , gay enthusiasm , Esther with a shy and wistful welcome , that said far less , and perhaps meant more . 
We worked in his garden , we came over and sat with Esther and Tina . 
Sometimes , of a still summer morning , while we were gravely digging at our lessons , we would hear Esther in tones of expostulation at some madcap impulse of Tina , and , looking across , would see her bursting out in some freak of droll pantomimic performance , and then an immediate whirlwind of gayety would seize us all . 
In general , Tina was a most praiseworthy and zealous student , and these wild , sudden whisks of gayety seemed only the escape-valves by which her suppressed spirits vented themselves ; but , when they came , they were perfectly irresistible . 
She devoted herself to Esther with that sympathetic adaptation which seemed to give her power over every nature . 
She was interested in her housekeeping , in all its departments , as if it had been her own glory and pride ; and Tina was one that took glory and pride in everything of her friends , as if it had been her own . 
Like most solemn festivals of New England , these seasons were announced under the domestic roof by great preparatory poundings and choppings , by manufacture , on a large scale , of cakes , pies , and provisions for the outer man ; and at this time Harry , Tina , and I devoted all our energies , and made ourselves everywhere serviceable . 
`` Friendship , only friendship , '' sang Tina , with silver tongue . 
`` Such a perfectfriendship , '' she remarked , `` was neverknown except just in our particular case '' ; it exceeded all the classical records , all the annals , ancient and modern . 
And Tina and I at this time gathered green boughs and ground-pine for the vases , and made floral decorations without end , till the bare little parsonage looked like a woodland bower . 
Harry and Esther and Tina and I learned them all . 
Tina , who was so intensely sympathetic with all social influences that she scarcely seemed to have an individuality of her own , was now glowing like a luminous cloud with religious zeal . 
`` I could convert that man , '' she said ; `` I know I could ! 
Tina was buoyant and joyous , full of poetic images , delighted with the news of every conversion , and taking such an interest in Mr. Avery 's preaching that she several times suggested to him capital subjects for sermons . 
She walked up to Ezekiel Scranton 's , one afternoon , for no other object than to convert him from his atheism , and succeeded so far as to exact a promise from him that he would attend all Mr. Avery 's meetings for a fortnight . 
Ezekiel was one of the converts of that revival , and Harry and I , of course , ascribed it largely to Tina 's influence . 
A rough old New England farmer , living on the windy side of a high hill , subsisting largely on codfish and hard cider , does not often win the flattering attention of any little specimen of humanity like Tina ; and therefore it was not to be wondered at that the results of her missionary zeal appeared to his mind something like that recorded in the New Testament , where `` an angel went down at a certain season and troubled the waters . '' 
But , while Tina was thus buoyant and joyous , Esther seemed to sink into the very depths of despondency . 
One terrestrial result of the revival in our academy was that about half a dozen of the boys fell desperately in love with Tina . 
I have always fancied Tina to be one of that species of womankind that used to be sought out for priestesses to the Delphic oracle . 
She had a flame-like , impulsive , ethereal temperament , a capacity for sudden inspirations , in which she was carried out of herself , and spoke winged words that made one wonder whence they came . 
Her religious zeal had impelled her to be the adviser of every one who came near her , and her sayings were quoted , and some of our shaggy , rough-coated mountain boys thought that they had never had an idea of the beauty of holiness before . 
And Tina came to me with wide brown eyes that sparkled like a cairngorm-stone , and told me that she believed she had found what her peculiar calling was : it was to influence young men in religion ! 
She cited , with enthusiasm , the wonderful results she had been able to produce , the sceptical doubts she had removed , the conceptions of heavenly things that she had been able to pour into their souls . 
Girls like Tina are often censured as flirts , -- most unjustly so , too . 
Tina was warmly social ; she was enthusiastic and self-confident , and had precisely that spirit which should fit a woman to be priestess or prophetess , to inspire and to lead . 
Like all others who have a given faculty , Tina loved its exercise , -- she loved to influence , loved to feel her power , alike , over man and woman . 
Yet , in simple good faith , Tina did not want her friends of the other sex to become lovers . 
She was willing enough that they should devote themselves , under all sorts of illusive names of brother and friend and what-not , but when they proceeded to ask her for herself there was an instant revulsion , as when some person has unguardedly touched a strong electric circle . 
The first breath of passion repelled her ; the friend that had been so agreeable the hour before was unendurable . 
Over and over again have I seen her go the same illusive round , always sure that in this instance it was understood that it was to be friendship , and only friendship , or brotherly or Christian love , till the hour came for the electric revulsion , and the friend was lost . 
Tina had not learned the modern way of girls , who count their lovers and offers as an Indian does his scalps , and parade the number of their victims before their acquaintances . 
Every incident of this kind struck her as a catastrophe ; and , as Esther , Harry , and I were always warning her , she would come to us like a guilty child , and seek to extenuate her offence . 
O Tina , Tina ! 
I enjoyed , in my way , almost as much celebrity in our little circle for advising and guiding my friends of the other sex as Tina did , and I took care to have on hand such a list of intimates as would prevent my name from being coupled with hers in the school gossip . 
Marriage , in the days of which I speak , was a very simple and natural affair , and Harry and Esther enjoyed the full pleasure of talking over and arranging what their future home should be ; and Tina , quite as interested as they , drew wonderful pictures of it , and tinted them with every hue of the rainbow . 
Shall I say , also , that my future was swayed unconsciously by a sort of instinctive perception of what yet might be desired by Tina ? 
Something a little more of this world I seemed to want to lay at her feet . 
I felt , somehow , that there was in her an aptitude for the perfume and brightness and gayeties of this lower world . 
I woulddo it ; and Tina should be mistress of a fine , antique house in Boston , like the Kitterys ' , with fair , large gardens and pleasant prospects , and she should glitter and burn and twinkle like a gem , in the very front ranks of society . 
Yes , I was ambitious , but it was for her . 
One thing troubled me : every once in a while , in the letters from Miss Mehitable , came one from Ellery Davenport , written in a free , gay , dashing , cavalier style , and addressing Tina with a kind of patronizing freedom that made me ineffably angry . 
Tina always laughed at me because I scolded and frowned at these letters , and , I thought , seemed to take rather a perverse pleasure in them . 
I was , of course , understood to be under solemn bond and promise to love Tina only as a brother ; but was it not a brother 's duty to watch over his sister ? 
I hated the French language with all my soul , and Ellery Davenport 's proficiency in it ; and Tina could not make me more angry than by speaking with admiration of his graceful fluency in French , and expressing rather wilful determinations that , when she got away from Mr. Rossiter 's dictation , she would study it . 
Mr. Davenport had said that , when he came back to America , he would give her French lessons . 
He was always kind and polite , and she did n't doubt that he 'd give melessons , too , if I 'd take them . 
`` French is the language of modern civilization , '' said Tina , with the decision of a professor . 
But she made me promise that I would n't say a word to her about it before Mr. Rossiter . 
`` Now , Horace dear , you know , '' she said , `` that French to him is just like a red rag to a bull ; he 'd begin to roar and lash his sides the minute you said the words , and Mr. Rossiter and I are capital friends now . 
`` Well , Tina , '' I said , `` you know there is a great deal of corrupt and dangerous literature in the French language . '' 
It was one of the great seasons of preparation in the minister 's family , and Tina , Harry , and I had been busy for two or three days beforehand , in helping Esther create the wood-spell cake , which was to be made in quantities large enough to give ample slices to every parishioner . 
said Tina . 
said Tina , with a toss of her pretty head , `` you do n't seem to think much of women . '' 
Looking more attentively at Tina as she stood bridling and dimpling before him , like a bird just ready to fly , Heber conceived an indistinct idea that he must say something gallant , so he added , `` Give all honor to the women , as weaker vessels , ye know ; that 's sound doctrine , I s ` pose . '' 
Tina glanced in and out among the old farmers , like a bright tropical bird , carrying the cake and cheese to each one , laughing and telling stories , dispensing smiles to the younger ones , -- treacherous smiles , which meant nothing , but made the hearts beat faster under their shaggy coats ; and if she saw a red-fisted fellow in a corner , who seemed to be having a bad time , she would go and sit down by him , and be so gracious and warming and winning that his tongue would be loosened , and he would tell her all about his steers and his calves and his last crop of corn , and his load of wood , and then wonder all the way home whether he should ever have , in a house of his own , a pretty little woman like that . 
Harry , Tina , Esther , and I ran up and down and in and about the piles of wood that evening with a joyous satisfaction . 
Esther and Tina had been filling their aprons with these mossy treasures , for which we had all been searching together , and now we all sat chatting in the evening light . 
said Tina . 
In the same moment Tina and I recognized Ellery Davenport ! 
TINA immediately turned and ran into the house , laughing , and up stairs into her chamber , leaving Esther to go seriously forward , -- Esther always tranquil and always ready . 
`` Why , Percival ! '' 
`` Where 's my fair little enemy , Miss Tina ? '' 
And then our scamper over the wood-pile , in the fresh , evening air , must have deranged something , for Tina had one of those rebellious heads of curls that every breeze takes liberties with , and that have to be looked after and watched and restrained . 
It is curious how character runs even to the minutest thing , -- the very hairs of our heads are numbered by it , -- Esther , always in everything self-poised , thoughtful , reflective ; Tina , the child of every wandering influence , tremulously alive to every new excitement , a wind-harp for every air of heaven to breathe upon . 
It would be hard to say what mysterious impulse for good or ill made her turn and run when she saw Ellery Davenport . 
Esther , meanwhile , went up stairs to notify Tina of his arrival . 
Tina , to be sure , had exhibited no symptoms of fatigue up to that moment ; but Esther now saw that she had been allowing her to over-exert herself . 
Tina certainly was not a coquette ; she had not learned the art of trading in herself , and using her powers and fascinations as women do who have been in the world , and learnt the precise value of everything that they say and do . 
She was , at least now , a simple child of nature , yet she acted exactly as an artful conquette might have done . 
Ellery Davenport constantly glanced at the door as he talked with Mr. Avery , and shifted uneasily on his chair ; evidently he expected her to enter , and when Esther returned without her he was secretly vexed and annoyed . 
And so in one evening Ellery witched himself into the good graces of every one in the simple parsonage ; and when Tina at last appeared she found him reigning king of the circle . 
When Tina entered , it was with an air unusually shy and quiet . 
She took all his compliments on her growth and change of appearance with a negligent , matter-of-course air , seated herself in the most distant part of the room , and remained obstinately still and silent . 
Nevertheless , it was to be observed that she lost not a word that he said , or a motion that he made . 
Was she in that stage of attraction which begins with repulsion ? 
or did she feel stirring within her that intense antagonism which woman sometimes feels toward man , when she instinctively divines that he may be the one who shall one day send a herald and call on her to surrender . 
Tina certainly was an innocent child at this time , uncalculating , and acting by instinct alone , and she looked upon Ellery Davenport as a married man , who was and ought to be and would be nothing to her ; and yet , for the life of her , she could not treat him as she treated other men . 
It was this whole nature that I felt in him , and I looked upon the gradual interest which I saw growing in Tina toward him , in the turning of her thoughts on him , in her flights from him and attractions to him , as one looks on the struggles of a fascinated bird , who flees and returns , and flees and returns , each time drawn nearer and nearer to the diamond eyes . 
Harry communicated the intelligence given him by Ellery Davenport , first to me , then to Tina and Esther and Mr. Avery , but begged that it might not be spoken of beyond our little circle . 
It had been suggested at first to take Miss Hannah More 's sacred drama upon this subject ; but Tina insisted upon it that it would be a great deal better to write an original drama ourselves , each one taking a character , and composing one 's own part . 
Tina was to be Jephthah 's daughter , and Esther her mother ; and a long opening scene between them was gotten up by the two in a private session at their desks in the school-room one night , and , when perfected , was read to Harry and me for our critical judgment . 
Moreover , the other part was to be that of Tina 's lover , and he was to act very desperate verses indeed , and I represented to Harry privately that here , for obvious reasons , I was calculated to succeed . 
But Tina overruled me with that easy fluency of good reasons which the young lady always had at command . 
Tina and Harry had , both of them , a considerable share of artistic talent , and made themselves very busy in drawing and painting scenery , -- a work in which the lady principal , Miss Titcomb , gave every assistance ; although , as Tina said , her views of scenery were mostly confined to what was proper for tombstones . 
`` But then , '' she added , `` let her have the whole planning of my grave , with a great weeping willow over it , -- that 'll be superb ! 
We had rehearsals every night for a fortnight , and Harry , Tina , and I officiated as stage-managers . 
Esther acted the part of Judan matron to perfection , -- her long black hair being let down and dressed after a picture in the Biblical Dictionary , which Tina insisted upon must be authentic . 
Harry looked magnificent , with the help of a dark mustache , which Tina very adroitly compounded of black ravelled yarn , arranging it with such delicacy that it had quite the effect of hair . 
The difficulty was that in impassioned moments the mustache was apt to get awry ; and once or twice , while on his knees before Tina in tragical attitudes , this occurrence set her off into hysterical giggles , which spoiled the effect of the rehearsal . 
I tried beginning , -- `` On Salem 's plains the summer sun is bright '' ; `` Well , dear me , Horace , '' said Tina , `` take it , and branch off from it , -- make a text of it . '' 
And while Harry was playing the impassioned lover at Tina 's feet , Esther looked at him slyly , with just the slightest shade of consciousness , -- something as slight as the quivering of an eyelash , or a tremulous flush on her fair cheek . 
Tina was vindictive and bloodthirsty in her determination that the tragedy should be of the deepest dye . 
She exhibited the ferocity of a little pirate in her utter insensibility to the details of blood and murder , and would not hear of any concealment , or half-measures , to spare anybody 's feelings . 
She insisted upon being stabbed on the stage , and she had rigged up a kitchen carving-knife with a handle of gilt paper , ornamented with various breastpins of the girls , which was celebrated in florid terms in her part of the drama as a Tyrian dagger . 
Tyrian sounds a great deal better , and the Ammonites , I do n't doubt , had Tyrian daggers , '' said Tina , who displayed a feminine facility in the manufacture of facts . 
`` Tyre , you know , '' she added , `` was the country where all sorts of things were made : Tyrian purple and Tyrian mantles , -- why , of course they must have made daggers , and the Jews must have got them , -- of course they must ! 
It must be confessed that nobody enjoyed Tina 's successes more heartily than she did herself . 
I never knew anybody who had a more perfect delight in the work of her own hands . 
Tina was to come in at the head of a chorus of wailing maidens , who were to sing a most pathetic lamentation over her . 
I was to stand grim and resolved , with my eyes rolled up into my helmet , and the sacrificial Tyrian dagger in my hands , when she was to kneel down before the altar , which was to have real flame upon it . 
When the lights were extinguished , and the lurid flame flickered up on the altar , and Tina entered dressed in white with her long hair streaming around her , and with an inspired look of pathetic resignation in her large , earnest eyes , a sort of mournful shudder of reality came over me , and the words I had said so many times concerning the sacrifice of the victim became suddenly intensely real ; it was a sort of stage illusion , an overpowering belief in the present . 
The effect of the ghastly light on Tina 's face , on Esther 's and Harry 's , as they grouped themselves around in the preconcerted attitudes , was really overwhelming . 
I stabbed Harry to the heart , Tina gave a piercing shriek and fell dead at his side , and then I plunged the dagger into my own heart , and the curtain fell , amid real weeping and wailing from many unsophisticated , soft-hearted old women . 
By way of dissipating the melancholy feelings consequent upon the tragedy , we had a farce called `` Our Folks , '' which was acted extemporaneously by Harry , Tina , and myself , consisting principally in scenes between Harry as Sam Lawson , Tina as Hepsie , and myself as Uncle Fliakim , come in to make a pastoral visit , and exhort them how to get along and manage their affairs more prosperously . 
I let off my extra steam in Uncle Fliakim with a good will , as I danced in in my black silk tights , knocking down the spinning-wheel , upsetting the cradle , setting the babies to crying , and starting Hepsie 's tongue , which lost nothing of force or fluency in Tina 's reproduction . 
The next day Tina was terribly out of spirits , and had two or three hours of long and bitter crying , the cause of which none of our trio could get out of her . 
The morning that we were to leave she went around bidding good by to everybody and everything , for there was not a creature in Cloudland that did not claim some part in her , and for whom she had not a parting word . 
And , finally , I proposed that we should go in to the schoolmaster together and have a last good time with him , and then , with one of her sudden impulsive starts , she turned her back on me . 
I was in blank amazement for a moment , and then I remembered the correspondence on the improvement of her mind . 
`` Tina , you do n't tell me , '' said I , `` that Mr. Rossiter has -- '' She turned quickly round and faced on the defensive . 
I never had any father -- that cared for me , at least , '' she said , with a quiver in her voice ; `` and he was beginning to seem so like a father to me . 
`` Why , but , Tina , '' said I , in amazement , `` Mr. Rossiter can not -- he could not mean to marry you ! '' 
`` But Tina , you can not , you must not now -- '' `` I know it , Horace . 
My good friends of the American Republic , if ever we come to have mingled among the senators of the United States specimens of womankind like Tina Percival , we men remaining such as we by nature are and must be , will not the general hue of politics take a decidedly new and interesting turn ? 
Tina came over and presided at the inauguration , and helped us hang our engravings , and fitted up various little trifles of shell and moss work , -- memorials of Cloudland . 
Tina was now visiting at the Kitterys ' , in Boston , dispensing smiles and sunbeams , inquired after and run after by every son of Adam who happened to come in her way , all to no purpose , so far as her heart was concerned . 
Tina 's education was now , in the common understanding of society , looked upon as finished . 
She was a young lady in society ; yet she was younger than either of us , and had , I must say , quite as good a mind , and was fully as capable of going through our college course with us as of having walked thus far . 
However , with her the next question was , Whom will she marry ? 
I flattered myself on her want of susceptibility that pointed in the direction of marriage . 
She could feel so much friendship , -- such true affection , -- and yet was apparently so perfectly devoid of passion . 
She was so brilliant , and so fitted to adorn society , that one would have thought she would have been ennuyein the old Rossiter house , with only the society of Miss Mehitable and Polly ; but Tina was one of those whose own mind and nature are sufficient excitement to keep them always burning . 
She loved her old friend with all her little heart , and gave to her all her charms and graces , and wound round her in a wild-rose garland , like the eglantine that she was named after . 
She had cultivated her literary tastes and powers . 
She wrote and sketched and painted for Miss Mehitable , and Miss Mehitable was most appreciative . 
Her strong , shrewd , well-cultivated mind felt and appreciated the worth and force of everything there was in Tina , and Tina seemed perfectly happy and satisfied with one devoted admirer . 
However , she had two , for Polly still survived , being of the dry immortal species , and seemed , as Tina told her , quite as good as new . 
And Tina once more had uproarious evenings with Miss Mehitable and Polly , delighting herself with the tumults of laughter which she awakened . 
She visited and patronized Sam Lawson 's children , gave them candy and told them stories , and now and then brought home Hepsie 's baby for a half-day , and would busy herself dressing it up in something new of her own invention and construction . 
Poor Hepsie was one of those women fated always to have a baby in which she seemed to have no more maternal pleasure than an old fowling-piece . 
But Tina looked at her on the good-natured and pitiful side , although , to be sure , she did study her with a view to dramatic representation , and made no end of capital of her in this way in the bosom of her own family . 
Tina 's mimicry and mockery had not the slightest tinge of contempt or ill-feeling in it ; it was pure merriment , and seemed to be just as natural to her as the freakish instincts of the mocking-bird , who sits in the blossoming boughs above your head , and sends back every sound that you hear with a wild and airy gladness . 
Tina 's letters to us were full of this mirthful , effervescent sparkle , to which everything in Oldtown afforded matter of amusement ; and the margins of them were scrawled with droll and lifelike caricatures , in which we recognized Sam Lawson , and Hepsie , and Uncle Fliakim , and , in fact , all the Oldtown worthies , -- not even excepting Miss Mehitable and Polly , the minister and his lady , my grandmother , Aunt Lois , and Aunt Keziah . 
What harm was there in all this , when Tina assured us that aunty read the letters before they went , and laughed until she cried over them ? 
`` Well , '' said I , `` in the interval , while this man is coming , what has Tina to do but to make a frolic of life ? 
Why could n't she as well find the coming man while she is doing something as while she is doing nothing ? 
and what a sparkle and glitter there were in some of Tina 's suggestions ! 
When such a gay creature of the elements as Tina is has nothing earthly to do to steady her mind and task her faculties , and her life becomes a mere glitter , and her only business to amuse the passing hour , it throws her open to all sorts of temptations from that coming man , whoever he may be . 
And then they are fair game for men who want to try their powers on them , and some man who has a vacation in his life purpose , and wants something to amuse him , makes an episode by getting up some little romance , which is an amusement to him , but all in all to her . 
`` True , '' said Harry , `` and there 's everything about Tina to tempt one ; she is so dazzling and bewildering and exciting that a man might intoxicate himself with her for the mere pleasure of the thing , as one takes opium or champagne ; and that sort of bewilderment and intoxication girls often mistake for love ! 
I would to Heaven , Horace , that I were as sure that Tina loves you as I am that Esther loves me . '' 
The trouble with Tina , Harry , is this : she is a woman that can really and truly love a man as a sister , or as a friend , or as a daughter , and she is a woman that no man can love in that way long . 
But I have lived in Tina , and I believe I have a sort of divining power , so that I can almost see into her heart . 
I feel in myselfhow things affect her , and I know , by feeling and sensation , that from her childhood Ellery Davenport has had a peculiar magnetic effect upon her . '' 
`` Well , but , '' said Harry , `` there 's not the slightest thing that leads me to think that he ever cared particularly about Tina . '' 
`` That 's because you are Tina 's brother , and not her lover , '' said I. `` I remember as long ago as when we were children , spending Easter at Madam Kittery 's , how Ellery Davenport 's eyes used to follow her , -- how she used constantly to seem to excite and interest him ; and all this zeal about your affairs , and his coming up to Oldtown , and cultivating Miss Mehitable 's acquaintance so zealously , and making himself so necessary to her ; and then he has always been writing letters or sending messages to Tina , and then , when he was up in Cloudland , did n't you see how constantly his eyes followed her ? 
He came there for nothing but to see her , -- I 'm perfectly sure of it . '' 
`` Mr. Davenport is rather a conceited man of the world ; I think he patronized me somewhat extensively ; but all this about Tina is a romance of your own spinning , you may be sure of it . '' 
For a great part of his time he was a madman , with all the cunning , all the ingenuity , the devilishness of insanity , and I have had to stand between him and my mother , and to hide Tina out of his way . '' 
We stopped before it , and down the walk from the front door to the gate , amid the sweet budding lilacs , came gleaming and glancing the airy form of Tina . 
So airy she looked , so bright , so full of life and joy , and threw herself into Harry 's arms , laughing and crying . 
And you , dear brother Horace , '' she said , turning to me and giving me both her hands , with one of those frank , loving looks that said as much as another might say by throwing herself into your arms . 
she said . 
I determined to have it over at once , and I said , `` Am I then to congratulate you , Tina , on your engagement ? '' 
She laughed and blushed , and held up her hand , on which glittered a great diamond , and hid her face for a moment on Harry 's shoulder . 
Come , come in , '' she said , taking us each by the hand and drawing us along with her . 
`` Come in and see Aunty ; she 'll be so glad to see you ! '' 
If there was any one thing for which I was glad at this moment , it was that I had never really made love to Tina . 
It was a comfort to me to think that she did not and could not possibly know the pain she was giving me . 
And I believe that Tina really thought that I was sincere in rejoicing with her . 
Miss Mehitable talked with us gravely about it while Tina was out of the room . 
It was most sudden and unexpected , she said , to her ; she always had supposed that Ellery Davenport had admired Tina , but never that he had thought of her in this way . 
`` There is only one thing , '' she continued gravely ; `` I am not satisfied about his religious principles . 
But Tina is an enthusiast , and has perfect faith that he will come all right in this respect . 
He seems to be completely dazzled and under her influence now , '' said Miss Mehitable , taking a leisurely pinch of snuff , `` but then , you see , that 's a common phenomenon , about this time in a man 's life . 
Mr. Davenport has interested himself in the very kindest manner in regard to both Tina and Harry , and I suppose it is greatly owing to this that affairs have turned out as prosperously as they have . 
As you know , Sir Harry made a handsome provision for Tina in his will . 
`` I would n't want my little Tina to have passed into his arms altogether penniless . 
`` If my father had not done justice to Tina in his will , '' said Harry , `` I should have done it . 
Tina 's engagement to Ellery Davenport was spoken of as the next most brilliant stroke of luck to Harry 's accession to the English property . 
I was a sophomore in Cambridge , and Harry a landed proprietor , and Tina an heiress to property in her own right , instead of our being three poor orphan children without any money , and with the up-hill of life to climb . 
In the course of the evening , Miss Mehitable came in with Ellery Davenport and Tina . 
She looked almost reproachfully at Tina , and said apologetically to Mr. Davenport , `` We are rough working folks , and you catch us just as we are . 
`` Well , I remember , '' said Tina , `` we had one day and night of savage life -- do n't you remember , Harry ? 
`` That was the time , young lady , '' said Ellery Davenport , looking at her with a flash in his blue eyes , `` that you established yourself as housekeeper on my premises ! 
`` It 's well you did not , '' said Tina , laughing ; `` you would have found me troublesome to keep . 
I do n't believe you would have been as patient as dear old Aunty , here , '' she added , laying her head on Miss Mehitable 's shoulder . 
`` Is it possible , '' said Tina , laughing , `` that those creatures are living yet ? 
`` O , ' t was a great threshing-machine of a woman that caught me between its teeth some years ago , '' said Tina . 
She warned Miss Mehitable , '' continued Tina , looking at Ellery and laughing shyly , `` that I never should grow up to be good for anything ; and she spoke a fatal truth , for , since she gave me up , every mortal creature has tried to pet and spoil me . 
`` That is all very pretty to say , '' said Tina , `` when you happen to be where there are none but wild roses ; but when you were among marchionesses and duchesses , how was it then ? '' 
For answer , Ellery Davenport bent over her , and said something which I could not hear . 
He had the art , without seeming to whisper , of throwing a sentence from him so that it should reach but one ear ; and Tina laughed and blushed and dimpled , and looked as if a thousand little graces were shaking their wings around her . 
It was one of Tina 's great charms that she was never for a moment at rest . 
In this she was like a bird , or a brook , or a young tree , in which there is always a little glancing shimmer of movement . 
And when anything pleased her , her face sparkled as a river does when something falls into it . 
And Tina looked so gladly satisfied , and glanced about the circle and at him with such a quiet triumph of possession , and such satisfaction in her power over him , that it really half reconciled me to see that she was so happy . 
And , after all , I thought to myself as I looked at the airy and spirituelstyle of her beauty , -- a beauty that conveyed the impression of fragility and brilliancy united to the highest point , -- such a creature as that is made for luxury , made for perfume and flowers and jewelry and pomp of living and obsequious tending , for old aristocratic lands and court circles , where she would glitter as a star . 
My love to her seemed a madness and a selfishness , -- as if I had wished to take the evening star out of the heavens and burn it for a household lamp . 
I knew , too , that I had a certain hold upon her ; and even at this moment I saw her eye often , as from old habit , looking across to me , a little timidly and anxiously , to see what I thought of her prize . 
She was Tina still , -- the same old Tina , that always needed to be approved and loved and sympathized with , and have all her friends go with her , heart and hand , in all her ways . 
So I determined to like him . 
Tina and he looked at each other with eyes dancing with merriment . 
I could see Tina 's eyes dancing with mirthfulness as Ellery Davenport answered , `` I 'm glad to see , Sam , that you have a proper care of your health . 
said Ellery Davenport , glancing at Tina . 
`` Positively , Ellery , '' said Tina , `` I sha ' n't have this sort of heathen stuff talked any longer . 
`` Well , come , '' said Tina , rising , `` it 's time for us to go ; and , '' she said , shaking her finger warningly at Ellery Davenport , `` I have a private lecture for you . '' 
`` And yet Tina loves him , '' said I. `` I can see that she has gone to him heart and soul , and she believes in him with all her heart , and so we can only pray that he may be true to her . 
There were so many reasons of convenience for accepting Madam Kittery 's hospitable invitation , it was urged with such warmth and affectionate zeal by Madam Kittery and Miss Debby , and seconded so energetically by Ellery Davenport , to whom this arrangement would secure easy access to Tina 's society during the intervening time , that it was accepted . 
Harry and I were glad of it , as we should thus have more frequent opportunities of seeing her . 
Ellery Davenport was refurbishing and refurnishing the old country house , where Harry and Tina had spent those days of their childhood which it was now an amusement to recall , and Tina was as gladly , joyously beautiful as young womanhood can be in which , as in a transparent vase , the light of pure love and young hope has been lighted . 
she had said to me , coaxingly , the first opportunity after the evening we had spent together . 
It was a sure way of making Tina 's cheeks glow and her eyes look kindly on me , and she told me so often that there was no person in the world whose good opinion she had such a value for , and she was soglad I liked him . 
I was frequently in at the Kittery house in leisure hours , and when , as often happened , Tina was closeted with Ellery Davenport , I took sweet counsel with Miss Mehitable . 
`` We all stand outside now , Horace , '' she said . 
I wanted Tina to be well married . 
I would not for the world she should marry without just this sort of love ; but of course it leaves me out in the cold . 
I would n't say this to her for the world , -- poor little thing , it would break her heart . '' 
She complained of a bad headache , but she had all the appearance of a person who is constantly struggling with something which she is doubtful of the expediency of uttering . 
At last , just as I was going , she called me into the library . 
`` Come here , Horace , '' she said ; `` I want to speak to you . '' 
I went in , and she made a turn or two across the room in an agitated way , then sat down at a table , and motioned me to sit down . 
`` Horace , my dear boy , '' she said , `` I have never spoken to you of the deepest sorrow of my life , and yet it often seems to me as if you knew it . '' 
`` My dear Aunty , '' said I , for we had from childhood called her thus , `` I think I do know it , -- somewhat vaguely . 
He was so successful in relation to Tina and Harry , I hoped he might learn something as to her ; but he never seemed to . 
Two or three times within the last four or five years I have received letters from her , but without date , or any mark by which her position could be identified . 
They told me , in the vaguest and most general way , that she was well , and still loved me , but begged me to make no inquiries . 
They were always postmarked at Havre ; but the utmost research gives no clew to her residence there . '' 
said I. `` Well , '' said Miss Mehitable , trembling in every limb , `` yesterday , when Mr. Davenport and Tina had been sitting together in this room for a long time , they went out to ride . 
Besides , what would Tina think of me if I impugned Ellery Davenport 's honor for what might be , after all , an accidental resemblance in handwriting . 
It can only create unpleasantness ; it may make Tina feel unhappy , who is so very happy now , and probably , at best , you can not learn anything that would satisfy you . '' 
Accordingly , that evening , as we were all gathered in a circle around the open fire , and Tina and Ellery , seated side by side , were carrying on that sort of bantering warfare of wit in which they delighted , I drew this envelope from my pocket and said , carelessly , `` Mr. Davenport , here is a letter of yours that you dropped in the library this morning . '' 
He was at that moment playing with a silk tassel which fluttered from Tina 's wrist . 
said Tina , snatching it out of his hand with saucy freedom , -- `` dated at Geneva , and a lady 's handwriting ! 
there 's nothing in it , '' said Tina . 
said Tina . 
`` But I sha ' n't like it , '' said Tina , half pouting , `` if you call my letters nothing . '' 
said she , coloring . 
`` But you have n't told me who sent them , '' said Tina . 
said he , shaking the letter at her . 
`` I sha ' n't make any promises , '' said Tina ; `` you ought to tell me ! '' 
`` You do n't get off that way , '' said Tina . 
said Tina . 
said Tina , `` I do n't care anything about it now . '' 
I looked across to Miss Mehitable ; she was laughing with the rest . 
Tina 's dress , for example , was all done two days beforehand , and fitted to a hair ; and all the invited guests had come , and were lodged in the spacious Kittery mansion . 
Instead of looking like a pale image of abstract thought , she seemed like warm flesh and blood , and Ellery Davenport remarked , `` What a splendid contrast her black hair and eyes will make to the golden beauty of Tina ! '' 
All , however humble , who had befriended Tina and Harry during the days of their poverty , were bidden . 
As I stood there looking , I heard a light footstep behind me , and Tina came up suddenly and spattered my cheek with a dewy rose that she had just been gathering . 
she said . 
`` Tina ! '' 
I hope you will find one worthy of you , '' she said . 
Now there were many points in this little valedictory of Tina to which I had no mind to respond , and she looked , as she was speaking , with tears coming in her great soft eyes , altogether too loving and lovely to be a safe companion to one forbidden to hold her in his arms and kiss her , and I felt such a desperate temptation in that direction that I turned suddenly from her . 
Mr. High and Mighty , '' she said , mimicking my constrained tone , `` what makes you so sulky to me this morning ? '' 
`` I am not sulky , Tina , only sad , '' I said . 
`` Come , come , Horace , do n't be sad , '' she said , coaxingly , and putting her hand through my arm . 
I submitted and let her lead me off passively . 
`` You see , Horace , '' she said , `` I feel for poor old Aunty . 
`` You and Harry ought both to visit her , '' said Tina , `` and write to her , and take her advice . 
Tina always had a slight proclivity for sermonizing , but a chapter in Ecclesiastes , coming from little preachers with lips and eyes like hers , is generally acceptable . 
`` You know , '' said Tina , `` that Aunty has some sort of a trouble on her mind . '' 
`` I made her tell me , '' said Tina . 
`` Come , come , '' said I , `` Tina , you are getting nervous . 
`` Well , '' said Tina , `` it made me sad to think that she was a young girl like me , full of hope and joy . 
They did n't treat her rightly over in that Farnsworth family , -- Miss Mehitable told me all about it . 
`` Tina , '' said I , `` are you satisfied with the religious principles of Mr. Davenport ? '' 
`` I am glad of it , '' said I , half convinced by her fervor , more than half by the magic of her presence , and the touch of the golden curls that the wind blew against my cheek , -- true Venetian curls , brown in the shade and gold in the sun . 
Certainly , such things as these , if not argument , incline man to be convinced of whatever a fair preacher says ; and I thought it not unlikely that Ellery Davenport liked to hear her talk about religion . 
Breakfast was hurried over , for I was to dress myself , and go to Mr. Davenport 's house , and accompany him , as groomsman , to meet Tina and Harry at the church door . 
And then those holy , tender words , those vows so awful , those supporting prayers , all mingled as in a dream , until it was all over , and ladies , laughing and crying , were crowding around Tina , and there were kissing and congratulating and shaking of hands , and then we swept out of the church , and into the carriages , and were whirled back to the Kittery mansion , which was thrown wide open , from garret to cellar , in the very profuseness of old English hospitality . 
Tina and Ellery sat at the head of the table , and dispensed hospitalities around them with a gay and gracious freedom ; and Harry , in whom the bridal dress of Esther had evidently excited distracting visions of future probabilities , was making his seat by her at dinner an opportunity , in the general clatter of conversation , to enjoy a nice little tte--tte . 
I do n't grudge Tina nothin ' ! 
She 's the chipperest , light-heartedest , darlin ` est little creetur that ever did live , an ' I hope she 'll hev good luck in all things . '' 
Even in those early days the rocky glories of Nahant and its dashing waves were known and resorted to by Bostonians , and the first part of the drive was thitherward , and Tina climbed round among the rocks , exulting like a sea-bird with Ellery Davenport ever at her side , laughing , admiring , but holding back her bold , excited footsteps , lest she should plunge over by some unguarded movement , and become a vanished dream . 
Tina he could see had idealized him entirely . 
She had invested him with all her conceptions of knighthood , honor , purity , religion , and made a creation of her own of him ; and sometimes he smiled to himself , half amused and half annoyed at the very young and innocent simplicity of the matter . 
Nobody knew better than himself that what she dreamed he was he neither was nor meant to be , -- that in fact there could not be a bitterer satire on his real self than her conceptions ; but just now , with her brilliant beauty , her piquant earnestness , her perfect freshness , there was an indescribable charm about her that bewitched him . 
Would it all pass away and get down to the jog-trot dustiness of ordinary married life , he wondered , and then , ought he not to have been a little more fair with her in exchange for the perfect transparence with which she threw open the whole of her past life to him ? 
Had he not played with her as some villain might with a little child , and got away a priceless diamond for a bit of painted glass ? 
`` Come , my little sea-gull , '' he said to her , after they had wandered and rambled over the rocks for a while , `` you must come down from that perch , and we must drive on , if we mean to be at home before midnight . '' 
`` Yes , but we can not build here three tabernacles , and so we must say , Au revoir.I will bring you here again '' ; -- and Ellery half led , half carried her in his arms back to the carriage . 
said Tina , as they were glancing along a turfy road through the woods . 
His arm was around her , tightening its clasp of possession as he looked down on her . 
Suddenly the words recalled to Tina her bad dream of the night before . 
She was on the point of speaking of it , but hesitated to introduce it ; she felt a strange shyness in mentioning that subject . 
Ellery Davenport turned the conversation upon things in foreign lands , which he would soon show her . 
He pictured to her the bay of Naples , the rocks of Sorrento , where the blue Mediterranean is overhung with groves of oranges , where they should have a villa some day , and live in a dream of beauty . 
said Tina , -- `` the paths are all cleared , and then it was one wild , dripping tangle . 
`` I should think that symbol meant eternal evil , '' said Tina , -- `` a circle is eternity , and a serpent is evil . '' 
`` I would n't have one for the world , '' said Tina . 
said Tina . 
Ellery sprang out lightly , and , turning , took Tina in his arms and set her down in the porch . 
said Tina , running about , and looking into the rooms with the delight of a child . 
`` This room is ours , '' said Ellery , drawing her into that chamber which Tina remembered years before as so weirdly desolate . 
said both Tina and Ellery , in tones of surprise . 
`` Perhaps , Tina , I had better go down and see while you are dressing , '' said Ellery . 
No , sir , I allow no private interviews , '' said Tina , with authority , -- `` no , I am all ready and quite dressed enough to go down . 
`` Well , I must confess , '' said Tina , `` I did n't look for wedding callers out here to-night ; but never mind , it 's a nice little mystery to see what she wants . '' 
They went down the staircase together , passed across the hall , and entered the little boudoir , where Tina and Harry had spent their first night together . 
As she came forward , Tina exclaimed , `` O Ellery , it is she , -- the lady in the closet ! '' 
she said , coming forward slowly and with dignity . 
Tina looked on without power to speak , as in a dreadful dream . 
The ticking of the little French mantel clock seemed like a voice of doom to her . 
said Tina , springing up and clasping his arm , `` O , tell me who she is ! 
Moreover , he knew that it was a falsehood to which he never should gain her consent ; and running along in the line of his thoughts came his recollections of Tina . 
When he returned to America , with the fact in his mind that she would be the acknowledged daughter of a respectable old English family , all her charms and fascinations had a double power over him . 
`` I would sooner have seen Tina in her grave than married to such a man , '' he said huskily . 
`` We have been reading these letters , '' said Miss Mehitable ; `` they were sent to us by Tina , and they do but confirm what I always said , -- that Emily fell by her higher nature . 
I went to the window , and , looking through the purple spikes of the tall old lilacs , which came up in a bower around the open window , I saw Tina alighting from a carriage . 
We heard a light fluttering motion and a footfall on the stairs , and the door opened , and in a moment Tina stood among us . 
She was very pale , and there was an expression such as I never saw in her face before . 
There had been a shock which had driven her soul inward , from the earthly upon the spiritual and the immortal . 
Something deep and pathetic spoke in her eyes , as she looked around on each of us for a moment without speaking . 
As she met Miss Mehitable 's haggard , careworn face , her lip quivered . 
She ran to her , threw her arms round her , and hid her face on her shoulder , and sobbed out , ` O Aunty , Aunty ! 
`` I am the cause , '' she said . 
I can not help loving him ; it is my duty to , '' she added . 
`` You must not say that , '' Tina said , raising her head , her eyes sparkling through her tears with some of her old vivacity . 
Tina started up in her headlong , energetic fashion . 
she said . 
`` I have read those letters , '' continued Tina , impetuously . 
There was a pause for a few moments , and then Tina spoke again . 
said Tina . 
Tina 's strong impulses seemed to carry us all with her . 
Tina went boldly in , and closed the door . 
We heard her voice , at times soft and pleading ; then it seemed to grow more urgent and impetuous as she spoke continuously and in tones of piercing earnestness . 
Tina 's voice sometimes could be distinguished in tones of the most pleading entreaty ; sometimes it seemed almost like sobbing . 
After a while , there came a great silence , broken by now and then an indistinct word ; and then Tina came out , softly closing the door . 
Her cheeks were flushed , her hair partially dishevelled , but she smiled brightly , -- one of her old triumphant smiles when she had carried a point . 
she said , almost breathless . 
We sail sooner than I thought , '' she said ; `` but this makes it best to go at once . '' 
Tina ran towards her , and stretched out her arms . 
`` Darling , '' she said , `` come to me . '' 
The little one , after a moment 's survey , followed that law of attraction which always drew children to Tina . 
She came up confidingly , and nestled her head on her shoulder . 
Tina gave her her watch to play with , and the child shook it about , well pleased . 
said Tina , carrying her to the window and showing her the horses . 
The child laughed , and stretched out her hand . 
`` Bring me her things , Aunty , '' she said . 
A few moments after , Tina went lightly tripping down the stairs , and Harry and I with her , carrying the child and its little basket of clothing . 
`` There , put them in , '' she said . 
`` And now , boys , '' she said , turning and offering both her hands , `` good by . 
She kissed us both , and was gone from our eyes before I awoke from the dream into which she had thrown me . 
`` Tina 's great characteristic , '' said I. `` What makes her differ from others is this capacity of inspiration . 
She seems sometimes to rise , in a moment , to a level above her ordinary self , and to carry all up with her ! '' 
`` I foresee a dangerous future for her , '' said Mr. Rossiter . 
`` With her brilliancy , her power of attraction , with the temptations of a new and fascinating social life before her , and with only that worthless fellow for a guide , I am afraid she will not continue ourTina . '' 
`` Suppose we trust in Himwho has guided her hitherto , '' said Harry . 
In fact , when Harry and I had been down to see Tina off , and had stood on the shore , watching and waving our handkerchiefs , until the ship became a speck in the blue airy distance , I turned back to the world with very much the feeling that there was nothing left in it . 
The advice of Tina on this subject had been faithfully followed . 
Tina proved a lively and most indefatigable correspondent . 
Harry and I heard from her constantly , in minute descriptions of the great gay world of London society , into which she was thrown as wife of the American minister . 
Her letters were like her old self , full of genius , of wit , and of humor , sparkling with descriptions and anecdotes of character , and sometimes scrawled on the edges with vivid sketches of places , or scenes , or buildings that hit her fancy . 
She was improving , she told us , taking lessons in drawing and music , and Ellery was making a capital French scholar of her . 
We could see through all her letters an evident effort to set forth everything relating to him to the best advantage ; every good-natured or kindly action , and all the favorable things that were said of him , were put in the foreground , with even an anxious care . 
To Miss Mehitable and Emily came other letters , filled with the sayings and doings of the little Emily , recording minutely all the particulars of her growth , and the incidents of the nursery , and showing that Tina , with all her going out , found time strictly to fulfil her promises in relation to her . 
`` I have got the very best kind of a maid for her , '' she wrote , -- `` just as good and true as Polly is , only she is formed by the Church Catechism instead of the Cambridge Platform . 
In this record , also , minute notice was taken of all the presents made to the child by her father , -- of all his smiles and caressing words . 
Without ever saying a word formally in her husband 's defence , Tina thus contrived , through all her letters , to produce the most favorable impression of him . 
He was evidently , according to her showing , proud of her beauty and her talents , and proud of the admiration which she excited in society . 
For a year or two there seemed to be a real vein of happiness running through all these letters of Tina 's . 
`` Tina , '' said I , `` has just that fortunate kind of constitution , buoyant as cork , that will rise to the top of the stormiest waters . '' 
`` It is not , '' said I , `` that Tina has not strong moral perceptions ; but she has this buoyant hopefulness ; she believes in herself , and she believes in others . 
She always feels adequate to manage the most difficult circumstances . 
I could not help smiling that dreadful day , when she came over and found us all so distressed and discouraged , to see what a perfect confidence she had in herself and in her own power to arrange the affair , -- to make Emily consent , to make the child love her ; in short , to carry out everything according to her own sweet will , just as she has always done with us all ever since we knew her . '' 
Tina was so positive and determined , so perfectly assured , and so warming and melting , that she carried all before her . 
There was n't even the physical power to resist her . '' 
`` And do you think , '' said Harry , `` that she will hold her power over a man like Ellery Davenport ? '' 
`` I regard it , '' said Harry , `` as the most dreadful trial to a woman 's character that can possibly be , to love , as Tina loves , a man whose moral standard is so far below hers . 
and the only hope I can have is that she will fully find him out at last . '' 
`` And that , '' said I , `` is a hope full of pain to her ; but it seems to me likely to be realized . 
`` I have not yet seen Tina , -- she is abroad travelling on the Continent . 
She writes to us often ; but , Horace , her letters begin to have the undertone of pain in them , -- her skies are certainly beginning to fade . 
He is an intrigantin polities , and has no domestic life in him ; while Tina , however much she loves and appreciates admiration , has a perfect woman 's heart . 
Admiration without love would never satisfy her . 
I can see , through all the excuses of her letters , that he is going very much one way and she another , that he has his engagements , and she hers , and that they see , really , very little of each other , and that all this makes her sad and unhappy . 
Such is my reading of poor Tina 's lot . '' 
Tina often spoke of the little girl as very lovely , and as her greatest earthly comfort . 
A little one of her own , born in England , had died early , and her affections seemed thus to concentrate more entirely upon the child of her adoption . 
She described her with enthusiasm , as a child of rare beauty and talent , with capabilities of enthusiastic affection . 
`` Let us hope , '' said I , `` that she does take her heart from her mother . 
Ever since the time when I had first opened to her my boyish heart , she had seemed to regard me with an especial tenderness , and to connect me in some manner with the image of her lost son . 
The assistance that she gave me in my educational career was viewed by her as a species of adoption . 
Her eye always brightened , and a lovely smile broke out upon her face , when I came to pass an hour with her . 
Time had treated her kindly ; she still retained the gentle shrewdness , the love of literature , and the warm kindness which had been always charms in her . 
Some of my happiest hours were passed in reading to her . 
Chapter after chapter in her well-worn Bible needed no better commentary than the sweet brightness of her dear old face , and her occasional fervent responses . 
Many Sabbaths , when her increasing infirmities detained her from church , I spent in a tender , holy rest by her side . 
Then I would read from her prayer-book the morning service , not omitting the prayer that she loved , for the King and the royal family , and then , sitting hand in hand , we talked together of sacred things , and I often wondered to see what strengthand discrimination there were in the wisdom of love , and how unerring were the decisions that she often made in practical questions . 
IT was eight years after Tina left us on the wharf in Boston when I met her again . 
Ellery Davenport met me with open-handed cordiality , and Tina with warm sisterly affection ; and their house became one of my most frequent visiting-places . 
Knowing Tina by a species of divination , as I always had , it was easy for me to see through all those sacred little hypocrisies by which good women instinctively plead and intercede for husbands whom they themselves have found out . 
She cares for him , watches over him , with the indefatigable tenderness which a mother gives to a son . 
It was easy to see that Tina 's affection for her husband was no longer a blind , triumphant adoration for an idealized hero , nor the confiding dependence of a happy wife , but the careworn anxiety of one who constantly seeks to guide and to restrain . 
We were all fully aware that at many times our Tina had all the ghastly horrors of dealing with a madman . 
Even when he was himself again , and sought , by vows , promises , and illusive good resolutions , to efface the memory of the past , and give security for the future , there was no rest for Tina . 
In her dear eyes I could read always that sense of overhanging dread , that helpless watchfulness , which one may see in the eyes of so many poor women in our modern life , whose days are haunted by a fear they dare not express , and who must smile , and look gay , and seem confiding , when their very souls are failing them for fear . 
He was absorbed in political life , in a wild , daring , unprincipled way , and made frequent occasions to leave Tina alone in Boston , while he travelled around the country , pursuing his intrigues . 
Two years after that , one calm , lovely October morning , a quiet circle of friends stood around the altar of the old church , when Tina and I were married . 
Not long since we spent a summer vacation at Oldtown , to explore once more the old scenes , and to show to young Master Harry and Miss Tina the places that their parents had told them of . 
One Saturday afternoon , Tina and I drove over to Needmore with a view to having one more gossip with Sam Lawson . 
These ` ere winters gits so cold here I 'm e ` en a ` most crooked up with the rheumatiz -- '' `` Why , Sam , '' said Tina , `` where is Hepsy ? '' 
`` Sam , '' said Tina , `` I sympathize with Hepsy . 
`` Well , Sam , '' said Tina , `` what has become of Old Crab Smith ? 
`` Well , '' said Tina , `` I 'm glad to hear about Old Sol ; how is he ? '' 
`` Well , '' said Tina , `` how is Miss Asphyxia ? '' 
