The outcries of the dog brought Miss Julia from the kitchen , and this time she was accompanied by her younger sister , Fanny , who , together with Julia and Aunt Judy , lamented over the wounded animal . 
`` Never mind , sister , '' said Fanny , `` never mind ; of course Aunt Judy did n't mean to do it , for she likes Dido as well as we do . '' 
`` Lor bless Miss Fanny 's sweet face , that I do like Dido , '' said Aunt Judy . 
Here Mrs. Middleton interposed , and ordered Julia and Fanny to take their seats at the table , while Judy cleared away all traces of the disaster . 
Julia complied with an ill grace , muttering something about `` the hateful negroes , '' while Fanny obeyed readily , and laughingly made some remark to Mr. Wilmot about their making so much ado over a dog , `` but , '' said she , `` we are silly girls , and of course do silly things . 
Here she stopped , blushing deeply at having called Mr. Wilmot old , when in fact she thought him quite young , and very handsome , -- in short , `` just the thing . '' 
She thought to herself , `` there , I 've done it now ! 
At times she was gentle as a lamb , but when any thing occurred to trouble her , all her southern blood boiled up , and she was as Fanny said , `` always ready to fire up at a moment 's warning . '' 
Mr. Middleton called her `` Tempest , '' while to Fanny he gave the pet name of `` Sunshine , '' and truly , compared with her sister , Fanny 's presence in the house was like a ray of sunshine . 
She was two years younger than Julia , and entirely different from her , both in looks and disposition . 
By the servants , Julia was feared and dreaded ; but Fanny was a favorite with all . 
Not a man , woman , or child , on the plantation , but was ready to do any thing for `` darling Miss Fanny . '' 
And they thought , too , every one must love her as well as they did , for they said , `` she showed by her face that she was an angel . '' 
He found Fanny most ready to converse . 
She had forgotten her resolution not to talk , and before the evening was half spent , seemed perfectly well acquainted with him . 
She had discovered that his name was Richard , that he had a sister Kate , who called him Dick , that he was as yet possessor of his own heart , but was in great danger of losing it ! 
The compliment Fanny very generously gave to her sister Julia , because she observed that Mr. Wilmot 's eyes were often directed towards the corner where the dark beauty sat , silent and immovable . 
She felt piqued that Fanny should engross so much attention , and resolved on revenge ; so she determined to show Mr. Wilmot that she could talk , but not upon such sillysubjects as pleased Fanny . 
Mr. Wilmot was surprised and pleased to find her so well informed ; and in the spirited conversation which followed , poor Fanny was entirely cast into the background . 
Fanny , however , attributed it to her sister 's superior knowledge of Latin , and inwardly `` thanked her stars '' that she knew nothing of that language , further than the verb Amo , to love . 
The practicalpart of that verb she understood , even if she did not its conjugation . 
She sat quietly listening to Mr. Wilmot and her sister , but her cogitations were far different from what Julia 's had been . 
Fanny was building castles , in all of which Mr. Wilmot and Julia were the hero and heroine . 
Fanny hesitated ; she did not wish to confess that she had once studied it six months , but at the end of that time , she was so heartily tired of its `` long-tailed verbs , '' as she called them , that she had thrown her grammar out of the window , and afterwards given it to Aunt Judy to light the oven with ! 
This story , however , was told by Julia , with many embellishments , for she delighted in making Fanny appear ridiculous . 
You know that while Fanny studied Latin , Mr. Miller said she learned her lessons more readily than you did and recited them better , and he said too , that she was quite as good a French scholar as you ! '' 
Julia curled her lip scornfully , and said , `` she did n't know what her mother knew about Fanny 's scholarship . '' 
Meantime Fanny was blushing deeply , and thinking that she had appeared to great disadvantage in Mr. Wilmot 's eyes ; but he very kindly changed the conversation by asking who Mr. Miller was ; and was told that he was a young man from Albany , New-York , who taught in their neighborhood the winter before . 
She was a born ` dlady , any body could see ; so different from Miss Fanny , who cared nothing how things looked if she could get into the kitchen , and turn hoe cakes for Aunt Judy , or tend the baby ! '' 
Julia knew that she had made a favorable impression on Mr. Wilmot , and she thought to increase that impression by making him think meanly of Fanny . 
Oh yes , Sunshine is a darling , '' said he , laying his hand caressingly on Fanny 's head , who just at that moment showed her sunny face in the room . 
At the last part of this speech , Julia curled her lip and tried to look indignant , while Fanny laughingly said , `` Pa , what makes you always bet sister and me , just as though you could sell us like the horses ? 
She , however , felt some misgivings lest Fanny should rival her in his esteem ; but she hoped , by negro bribery , and various little artifices of her own , to deter him from thinking toohighly of her sister . 
With Fanny it was just the reverse . 
Particularly did she wish to recall what she had done , when she saw that Fanny also had received some of the preserves on hermerino ; but instead of raging like a fury , she arose and quietly wiped it off , and then burst into a loud laugh , which she afterward told her mother was occasioned by the mournful look which Mr. Wilmot 's face assumed , when he saw that Julia 's temper was not dead , but merely covered up with ashes . 
From this remark of Fanny 's the reader will understand that she was well aware of the part her sister was playing . 
And she was perfectly satisfied that it should be so , for by this means sheoccasionally got a pleasant word from Julia . 
She however often wished that Mr. Wilmot could be constantly with her sister , for his presence in the house did not prevent her from expending her wrath upon both Fanny and the blacks . 
So one evening when her father , mother , and Fanny were absent , and she was alone with him , she adroitly led the conversation to the circumstance of her spoiled merino . 
She acknowledged that it was very unamiable and unladylike to manifest such passionate feelings , -- said she knew she had a quick temper , but she tried hard to govern it : and if Mr. Wilmot would , as her teacher and friend , aid her by his advice and influence , she was sure she should in time succeed . 
So nicely did she manage each part of her confession that Mr. Wilmot was thoroughly deceived . 
He believed her perfectly sincere , and greatly admired what he thought to be her frank , confiding disposition . 
From that time she was dearer to him than ever , and Julia , again sure of his esteem , placed a double guard upon her temper , and in his presence was the very `` pink '' of amiability ! 
At last he passed it to Fanny , who was eagerly waiting for it , and then turning to Wilmot , he said , `` Yes , Richard , she has the handsomest face I ever saw . '' 
Just then Fanny exclaimed , `` Oh , how handsome ; look , mother , -- Julia , is n't she perfectly beautiful ! '' 
And then she added , `` But , Mr. Wilmot , is she as good as she is beautiful ? '' 
`` I did n't say they could n't , sister , '' said Fanny , `` but I thought , -- yes , I 'm sure she looks a little selfish ! '' 
`` Never mind , Fanny , '' said Mr. Wilmot , `` never mind , you are more of a physiognomist than I thought you were , for Kate 's great fault is being too selfish ; but she will overcome that in time , I think . '' 
`` Oh yes , I 'm sure she will , '' said Fanny , who was anxious to do away with any unfavorable impression she might have made . 
So she went up to Mr. Wilmot , and laying her hand on his shoulder , said , `` I am sorry if I said any thing bad of your sister . 
`` Oh , do you , '' said Fanny , clapping her white , dimpled hands , `` do you really call us both sisters ? 
said Mr. Miller , who was always interested in whatever Fanny said . 
`` Oh she knows a ` heap ' more than I do , '' said Fanny . 
`` Yes , sir , '' replied Fanny . 
Here Julia angrily exclaimed , `` Fanny , what do you mean ? 
Mr. Miller agreed with him as long as his remarks were confined to Fanny , but when he came to speak of Julia , and of her superior beauty , intellect and agreeable manners , he ventured to disagree with him . 
Then as to her intellect , I never thought it greatly superior to Fanny 's . 
To be sure , she has a way of showing off all she does know , while Fanny is more retiring . '' 
`` Even your favorite Fanny , '' said he , `` admitted that . '' 
Adjoining the room of Mr. Wilmot , was a long , dark closet , the door of which opened into the apartment of Julia and Fanny . 
She looked at the clock , and saw it was already half-past ten , and then stealing softly to the bedside where Fanny lay quietly sleeping , she bent down and assured herself that her sister really was unconscious of her movements . 
She then hastily threw on her overshoes , cloak , and hood , and stealing noiselessly down the stairs , was soon in the open air alone in the darkness of the night . 
Just as she shut the door of the house , the watch-dog , Tiger , came bounding furiously toward her with an angry growl . 
She silenced the fierce animal by saying , `` Down Tiger , -- poor Tige -- do n't you know me , Tiger ? '' 
After quieting the dog , she proceeded on her strange errand , which was to obtain her books from the school-house , which was more than half a mile distant . 
The mud , which was very deep , was not more than half frozen , and at each step , she sunk into a mixture of mud , snow and ice . 
Still she kept fearlessly on , till at last she found herself in the midst of the thick woods . 
Here her courage somewhat failed her , for she called to mind all the stories she had ever heard of runaways , who were said to walk abroad at this dark hour of the night . 
Once she thought she saw the giant form of a negro standing in her path , but it proved to be a black stump , and she was about laughing at her fears , when her ear detected the sound of a light , rapid tread , coming towards her . 
Almost paralyzed with terror , she stood perfectly still , and listened for the sound to be repeated , but all was silent , and again she went on her way , and soon reached the school-house . 
The house was locked , and the key was in Mr. Wilmot 's pocket ; but the old adage , `` where there 's a will , there 's a way , '' came into her mind , so she felt round on the half frozen ground till she found a long rail , which she placed against a window ; then climbing up , she raised the sash , and in a moment was in the school-room . 
The atmosphere of the room was still comfortable , and she stopped for a moment at the stove to warm her benumbed fingers , then groping her way to her desk , she easily found her books , and made her way out of the house in the same manner that she had entered . 
Just as she reached the ground , a large , dark object sprang towards her , and two glittering eyes looked up into her face . 
She uttered a loud shriek , which was answered by a low whine , which she instantly recognized as belonging to Tiger . 
`` Why , Tiger , '' she exclaimed , `` how you frightened me ! 
It seems Tiger had thought there must be something wrong , or his mistress would not be out at this unreasonable hour , so he had followed on after her . 
Her movements awoke Fanny , who , on seeing her sister up at that hour of the night , started with surprise , and exclaimed , `` What , is it Julia ? 
Julia immediately extinguished the light , lest her sister should discover her books , and then said , `` Nothing , Fanny , nothing ; only I have the toothache , and I got up for the camphor , but can not find it . '' 
`` The camphor is down stairs , '' said Fanny , `` but I will go for it if you wish me to . 
`` It 's only I , father , '' said Fanny . 
While Fanny was after the camphor , Julia arose , and seizing her books , threw them hastily into her bureau drawer . 
She then sprang back into bed , and when Fanny came in , she was making a very appropriate moaning on account of her aching tooth ! 
`` How cold you are , sister , '' said Fanny , `` let me warm my shawl and put ` round you . '' 
So Fanny lay down by her sister , and the two , purity and guilt , were soon fast asleep , side by side , and the angel of innocence spread his broad wing protectingly over the yellow locks of the one , while a serpent lay coiled in the dark tresses of the other . 
`` She had a violent toothache last night , which kept her awake , '' said Fanny . 
At last she opened her portfolios , and taking from it a sheet of foolscap , cast an exulting glance towards Fanny and Mr. Miller , the latter of whom was watching her movements . 
Julia 's recitation being over , Fanny 's class was called . 
Fanny came hesitatingly , for she knew her lesson was but poorly learned . 
That morning she had found under her desk a love-letterfrom Bill Jeffrey , and she and some of the other girls had spent so much time in laughing over it , and preparing its answer , that she had scarcely thought of her lesson . 
She got through with it , however , as well as she could , and was returning to her seat , when Mr. Miller called her to him , and said , rather reprovingly , `` Fanny , why did you not have a better lesson ? '' 
`` Oh , Mr. Miller , '' said she , almost crying , `` I did intend to , but I forgot all about your being here ; '' and then , as a new thought struck her , she said mischievously , `` and besides , I have spent all the morning in writing an answer to Billy Jeffrey 's love-letter ! '' 
At this unlooked for speech , all the scholars burst into a laugh , and directed their eyes towards the crest-fallen Bill , who seemed so painfully embarrassed , that Fanny regretted what she had said , and as soon as school was out for the morning , she went to him and told him she was sorry for so thoughtlessly exposing him to ridicule ; `` but , '' added she , `` Billy , I 'll tell you what , you must n't write me any more love-letters , for 't is not right to do such things at school ; neither need you bring me any more candy or raisins . 
The butt of the school , he was accustomed to the jeers of his companions , but such kindness , and from Fanny , too , was unexpected . 
He , however , drew from his desk his old slate and arithmetic , and he and Fanny were soon deep in the mysteries of compound fractions . 
`` Now , Billy , '' said Fanny , rising , `` see that you do not send me any more letters , and mind too , and not winkat me so often ; will you remember ? '' 
Bill gave the required promise , and Fanny bounded away in quest of her schoolmates , who laughed at her for taking so much pains with such a dolt as Bill Jeffrey . 
That afternoon Fanny resolved to retrieve her character as a scholar ; so she applied herself closely to her task , and before recitation hour arrived , she had learned every word of her lesson . 
But alas for poor Fanny ! 
The girls were all anxious to try a ride down the hill , and none more so than Fanny ; but the boys would not lend their sleds , and the girls would not ride with the boys , and as the latter always hid their precious sleighs , the girls had as yet never succeeded in their wishes . 
But on this day , Bill Jeffrey , touched by Fanny 's unlooked for kindness , whispered to her , just as school was commencing , that she might take his big sled , at recess . 
This was a treat indeed , and when recess came , Fanny , with half a dozen other girls , climbed to the top of the hill , and began piling on to Bill 's old sled . 
It was settled that Fanny should guide the craft , and numerous were the cautions of the girls that she should `` mind and steer straight . '' 
`` Oh yes , I 'll do that , '' said Fanny ; `` but would n't it be funny , '' added she , `` if we should make a mistake , and go plump into the school-house ! '' 
Fanny lost her presence of mind , and with it her ability to guide the sled , so that they passed the point where they should have turned , and made directly for the school-house door , which flew open , as once did the gates for the famous John Gilpin . 
There was no entry way to the building , but as the sled struck the door , the jolt threw off all the girls except Fanny , who manfully kept her seat , and so made her grand entrance into the school-room , stopping not till she reached the stove , and partially upsetting it , to the great astonishment of the teacher , visitor , and boys , the latter of whom set up a loud huzza . 
Poor Fanny ! 
Her mishap gave secret pleasure to Julia , who delighted to have Fanny appear as badly as possible , and she felt particularly pleased when she saw that Fanny 's strange ride had scattered all the ideas from her head , for the afternoon 's lessons were but little better recited than the morning 's , and at its close Julia gave her a look of malicious triumph , which Mr. Miller observing , said , as if apologizing for Fanny , that he was sure she had every word of her lesson before recess , but 't was no wonder she was somewhat disconcerted at the unexpected termination of her ride . 
Fanny smiled gratefully upon him through her tears , which she could not restrain ; but her tears were like April showers -- they did not last long , and that night , at the supper table , when Mr. Miller related her adventure to her father , she joined as gayly as any one in the laugh which followed . 
Julia was much displeased to think that Fanny 's `` ridiculous conduct , '' as she called it , should be told of and laughed at , as though it were something amusing . 
She was anxious , too , that Mr. Miller should draw his visit to a close ; but as he did not seem inclined to do so , she resolved to make the most of it , and give him a few new ideas . 
She knew that Fanny had ever been his favorite , and she very naturally supposed that the reason of his preference was , because he thought she possessed a very lovely , amiable disposition . 
She determined to make him think otherwise , and set herself at work to execute a plan , which fully showed the heartless deception which almost always characterized her actions . 
Fortune seemed to favor her , for after supper , her father and mother announced their intention of spending the evening at one of the neighbors ' , and soon after they left Mr. Wilmot , who had letters to write , retired to his room , together with Mr. Miller . 
The young gentlemen looked at each other in surprise , for the voice was like Fanny 's , and yet it was so unnatural for her to be in such a passion , that they thought it impossible . 
Their fears were , however , soon confirmed by Luce , who said , `` Oh Miss Fanny , Lor ' knows I never tached it . 
`` There , take that , to brighten up your ideas , '' said Fanny , and at the same time there was the sound of a blow , which was followed by an outcry from Luce , who exclaimed , `` Oh -- oh -- oh -- Miss Fanny , do n't go for to whip me , case I haint nothin ' to tell ; if I had , I 'd tell right off . 
Just then the door opened , and Julia , again speaking naturally , was heard to say , `` Why , Fanny , what are you doing just as soon as mother is gone ? 
`` Oh , Miss Julia , '' replied Luce , `` Miss Fanny done lost her fine hankercher , and she say how I stole it , but I haint . '' 
`` What makes you think Luce has got your handkerchief , Fanny ? '' 
`` Becausue I left it on the table , and 't is n't there now ; and no one has been in the room except Luce , '' replied Fanny . 
While this scene was taking place , Fanny was quietly seated by the fire in the sitting-room , getting her lesson for the next day . 
At last her eye chanced to fall upon a purse which Julia was knitting for her father , and which she had promised to finish that night . 
`` I wonder , '' said Fanny to herself -- `` I wonder where Julia is gone so long ? 
Suiting the action to the word , she caught up the purse , and when Julia returned to the sitting-room , she found her sister busily engaged in knitting for her . 
`` Why , Julia , '' said Fanny , `` where have you been so long ? 
`` Is it possible , '' said Mr. Miller , `` that I have been so deceived in Fanny , and that , after all , she is as passionate as her sister ? '' 
I hope you are now convinced that Fanny is not infallible , though I will confess that I am surprised and disappointed , for I thought she was really of a very gentle nature . '' 
Mr. Miller did not reply directly , but went on , as if speaking to himself , `` Oh , Fanny , Fanny , how has my idol fallen ! 
He had always thought of Fanny , as the embodiment of almost every female virtue , and although she was so young , hope had often whispered to him of a joyous future , when she , whom her father designated as his `` Sunshine , '' should also shed a halo of sunlight around another fireside . 
When it came Fanny 's turn to bid him good-bye , she noticed the absence of his accustomed cordiality , and wondered much what she had done to displease him . 
That night she wept herself to sleep thinking of it , while Julia , secretly exulting in her sister 's uneasiness , laughed at her for her foolishness , and said , `` It was probably a mere fancy ; and even if it were not , what matter was it ? 
What did she care for Mr. Miller 's good or bad opinion ? 
She must n't expect every body to pet and caress her just as father did , who was an old foolany way , and petted her and his dogs alternately . '' 
This kind of reasoning did not convince Fanny , and for many days her face wore a sad , troubled expression . 
Peal after peal of thunder followed each other in rapid succession , and just as Julia whispered a promise to be Mr. Wilmot 's for ever , a blinding sheet of lightning lit up for a moment her dark features , and was instantly succeeded by a crash , which shook the whole house from its foundation , and drew from Julia a cry of terror , which brought Fanny to see what was the matter , and made Mr. Middleton swear , `` Thar was noise enough from the tempestout doors , without the ` Tempest ` in the house , raising such a devil of a fuss ! '' 
Accordingly that evening Fanny made an attack upon him , and as her mother had predicted , she was perfectly successful . 
It was settled that she and Julia should both go , and the next morning early , Mr. Middleton set off for Frankfort to find , `` as smart a boarding-place for his galsas any body had . '' 
Julia had long been ready , and was waiting impatiently for Fanny , who was bidding the servants an affectionate good-bye . 
Each one had received from her some little token of love , and now they all stood in one corner of the yard , to look at their darling as long as possible . 
Here old Aunt Katy , who had nursed Mr. Middleton and his children after him , hobbled up to Fanny , and laying her hard , shrivelled black hand on her young mistress 's bright locks , said , `` The Lord who makes the wind blow easy like on the sheared lamb , take keer of my sweet child , and bring her back agin to poor old Aunt Katy , who 'll be all dark and lonesome , when Sunshine 's done gone . '' 
The negroes needed no other incentive to work , than the prospect before them of going to see Fanny . 
Ike was a sprightly negro boy of seventeen , and almost idolized his young mistress Fanny . 
Long before `` sun up '' -LRB- a favorite expression in Kentucky for sunrise -RRB- , he had filled his basket with strawberries , and just as the first rays of sunlight streaked the eastern hills , he started on his mission , laden with numerous messages of love for `` sweet Miss Fanny , '' and a big cranberry pie , from Aunt Judy , who `` was sartin the baby wanted some of old Judy 's jimcracks by this time . '' 
Meanwhile Julia and Fanny had become tolerably well established both in school and at Mrs. Crane 's . 
But poor Fanny was continually committing some blunder . 
She would forget to use her napkin , or persist in using her knife instead of her four-tined silver fork . 
These little things annoyed Julia excessively , and numerous were the lectures given in secret to Fanny , who would laugh merrily at her sister 's distress , and say she really wished her father would dine some day at Mrs. Crane 's table . 
`` They would not mind his oddities , '' said Fanny , `` for I overheard Mrs. Crane telling the exquisitely fashionable Mrs. Carrington , that our father was ` a quizzical old savage , but rich as a nabob , and we should undoubtedly inherit a hundred thousand dollars apiece . ' 
`` Well then , '' said Fanny , `` Mrs. Carrington said , ` There is a rumor that the eldest Miss Middleton is engaged to Mr. Wilmot . 
She frequently found herself thinking about him during the day , but Fanny never gave him a thought until evening , when as she and her sister were together in their room , the latter suddenly exclaimed , `` I wonder if Dr. Lacey will be here at breakfast to-morrow morning . '' 
`` And if he is , '' said Fanny , `` I suppose you want me to be very careful to use my fork , and break my egg correctly . '' 
`` Well , '' returned Fanny , `` I reckon this Dr. Lacing or Dr. Lacework , -- what 's his name ? 
Little did Fanny dream how closely the `` New Orleans pill bags '' were to be connected with the rest of her life . 
There was something remarkably pleasing in his manner , and before breakfast was over , he had completely won Fanny 's good opinion , by kindly breaking her egg for her , and when she had the misfortune to drop her fork , he drew the attention of the company from her , by relating an anecdote of himself , which was , that he was once invited to a dinner party at the Hon. Henry Clay 's , and as he was trying to be very graceful and polite , he unfortunately upset his plate , the contents of which , together with his knife and fork , were deposited in his lap . 
This story raised such a laugh that all forgot Fanny , who gave Dr. Lacey such a look of gratitude , that after breakfast he asked Mrs. Crane , who the pale , blue-eyed girl was , and received about the same information that Mrs. Carrington had received . 
`` You ought to play , golden locks , '' said he to Fanny , at the same time taking one of her long yellow curls in his hand . 
`` I am taking lessons , '' said Fanny , `` but I make awkward work , for my fingers are all thumbs , as you might know by my dropping that four-tined pitchfork this morning ! '' 
Dr. Lacey laughed heartily at this speech and called her an `` original little piece , '' at the same time saying , `` You remind me of my sister Anna . '' 
asked Fanny . 
Fanny observed that he seemed agitated while speaking of his sister , so she dared not ask him more about her , although she wished very much to do so . 
That night Fanny dreamed of sweet Anna Lacey , sleeping so quietly in her lone grave , far off neath the orange trees of Cuba . 
`` I dun know nothin ' ` bout yer ark , '' said Ike , whose Scripture knowledge was rather limited , `` but I ` longs to Marster Josh , and I 'm goin ' to see Miss Fanny -- and now I think of it , wo n't you ride ? '' 
He had often wondered during his ride whether Fanny would not give him a piece of the pie . 
While he was making his way into Mrs. Crane 's kitchen , Julia and Fanny were in their room , the windows of which were open and looked out upon a balcony , which extended entirely around the house . 
There was no school that day , and Fanny was just wishing she could hear from home , when a servant entered the room , and said there was a boy in the kitchen , who wished to see Miss Fanny . 
`` A boy want to see me , '' said Fanny , `` who can it be ? '' 
exclaimed Fanny , `` somebody from home ; how glad I am ! 
But Fanny did not answer , for she was already half way down the stairs . 
Going to the kitchen she found Ike , and seemed as delighted to see him , as though his skin had been snowy white . 
`` Dear Aunt Judy , '' said Fanny , `` how kind she is , '' then seizing a knife she cut a liberal piece for Ike , who received it with many thanks . 
`` Now , Ike , '' said she , `` you must wait here until I go out and get a ribbon for Aunt Judy 's cap , and some tobacco for old Aunt Katy . '' 
So saying she ran up stairs to her room . 
When she entered it , Julia exclaimed , `` In the name of the people , what have you got now ? '' 
`` Oh , a pie , which Aunt Judy sent me , '' said Fanny . 
`` Mrs. Crane need know nothing about it , and would not care if she did , '' said Fanny , and then she added , `` Ike is down stairs , and he says father is coming after us in two or three weeks . '' 
`` And why can not father come , '' asked Fanny . 
`` I know he is odd , '' said Fanny ; `` but he is my father , and as such I would not be ashamed of him . '' 
she continued , as she saw her sister putting on her bonnet . 
`` I am going to buy some ribbon for Aunt Judy , some tobacco for Aunt Katy , and some candy for the children , '' answered Fanny . 
`` Oh , '' said Fanny , `` I 've concluded not to go and hear Fanny Kemble to-night . 
Fanny had been told that often , so she did not reply , but hastened down stairs , and was soon in the street . 
They all answered in the affirmative except Fanny , who was about to reply , when Dr. Lacey interrupted her by saying , `` Miss Fanny , will you allow me to accompany you to hear Mrs. Butler this evening ? '' 
Fanny was amazed . 
Was it possible that the elegant Dr. Lacey had honored her with an invitation to accompany him to the literary treat ! 
She was too much surprised to answer him , until he said , `` Do not refuse me , Miss Fanny , for I am resolved to have you go ! '' 
She then gracefully accepted his polite invitation , and at the same time glancing toward Julia and Mrs. Carrington , she saw that the former frowned darkly , while the latter looked displeased . 
'T is true , she somewhat feared Julia might become a rival , but of the modest , unassuming little Fanny , she had never once thought , and was greatly surprised when Dr. Lacey offered to escort her to the Reading . 
She had resolved on having his company herself , and when she saw the frown on Julia 's face , she flattered herself that she could yet prevent Fanny 's going . 
Accordingly after supper , she asked Julia to go with her for a moment to her room . 
So they went to Fanny 's room , where they found her sitting by the window , thinking how much pleasure she should enjoy that night . 
Julia commenced operations by saying , `` Fanny , what made you promise Dr. Lacey that you would go with him to-night ? '' 
`` Why , '' said Fanny , `` was there any thing wrong in it ? '' 
Here Mrs. Carrington 's soft voice chimed in , `` Nothing very wrong , dear Fanny ; but it is hardly proper for a young school girl to appear in public , attended by a gentleman who is not her brother or cousin . '' 
Poor Fanny ! 
`` But I promised I would , '' said Fanny . 
Thus beset , poor Fanny sat down and wrote as Mrs. Carington dictated , the following note : -- `` Sir -- `` Upon further reflection , I think it proper to decline your polite invitation for to-night . 
`` You are a good girl to submit so readily , '' said Mrs. Carrington , laying her white hand on Fanny 's head . 
But Fanny 's eyes were full of tears , and she did not answer ; and Mrs. Carrington , sure of Dr. Lacey 's attendance that evening , left the room exulting in the result of her plan . 
But to return to Fanny . 
It was rather hard , and with untiring patience she played it over and over , until she was suddenly startled by a voice behind her , saying , `` Really , Miss Fanny , you are persevering . '' 
But why did you change your mind , Miss Fanny ? 
Fanny blushed painfully , and the tears came to her eyes , but she replied , `` I was anxious to go , but they thought I had better not . '' 
Fanny answered , `` Mrs. Carrington and Julia said I was too young to go out with -- '' `` With such a bad man as I am , '' said Dr. Lacey , laughing . 
`` Oh no , '' said Fanny , `` they do not think you bad ; they said with any gentleman . '' 
`` How old are you , Fanny ? '' 
`` I was sixteen last May , '' she replied . 
Fanny did not reply ; and he continued , `` Whom would you have gone with , if you had not spent your money this morning for those old Aunts ? '' 
Fanny started ; and giving him a searching look , was about to reply , when he anticipated her by saying , `` Yes , Fanny , I overheard your conversation this morning , and I can not sufficiently admire your generous self-denial . 
Fanny answered hesitatingly , `` I am afraid you would not like to go there , Dr. Lacey . '' 
`` Oh yes , very much , '' she replied ; `` but father is a little odd , and you might feel inclined to laugh at him ; but he is very kind , and if you could forget his roughness , you would like him . '' 
He then turned the conversation upon other subjects ; and Fanny found him so agreeable , that she never thought of the hour , until Mr. Wilmot , Mrs. Carrington and Julia , suddenly entered the parlor . 
`` I dare say not ; Fanny is usually very interesting , '' was Julia 's contemptuous reply , and as Mr. Wilmot just then took his leave , she very haughtily left the room , and went up stairs , muttering to herself , `` Foiled for the first time in my life . '' 
From this time nothing of particular importance occurred for two or three weeks , except that Dr. Lacey seemed each day to grow fonder of Fanny , which greatly annoyed Mrs. Carrington and Julia , both of whom spared no pains to make Fanny appear in as bad a light as possible . 
But Dr. Lacey understood their manœuvres , and whenever they were present , seemed to take delight in being very attentive to Fanny . 
Juliaand Fanny had been gone from home about four weeks , when Mr. Middleton suddenly determined `` to go and see his gals '' and bring them home . 
I hear him now talking about Sunshine , '' and Fanny rushed in , and throwing her arms around her father 's neck , kissed again and again his rough cheek , while he suddenly felt the need of his red and yellow cotton handkerchief , and muttered something about the ` roads ' being so infernal dustythat they made a fellow 's eyes smart ! '' 
Julia reddened , while Fanny burst into a laugh and said , `` Father is n't much used to French soups , I think . '' 
`` It would be of no use , father , '' answered Fanny . 
She had watched with a jealous eye the growing intimacy between him and Fanny , and resolved to leave no means untried to prevent a union between them , and to secure the Doctor for herself . 
To do this she knew she must break her engagement with Mr. Wilmot , and also give Dr. Lacey a bad opinion of her sister . 
She felt sure of success , for when did sheundertake any thing and fail . 
Fanny 's first impulse was to go and see him , but Julia prevented her by saying that he would send for her when he wanted her . 
Earnestly did Fanny entreat her to remain and watch over Mr. Wilmot . 
`` Well then , '' said Fanny , `` Ishall stay till mother sends for me . 
`` Oh Julia , '' said Fanny , `` what has changed you so towards Mr. Wilmot ? '' 
So Julia started for home , while Fanny took her station by the bedside of her beloved teacher . 
Julia carelessly told her mother of Mr. Wilmot 's illness , and that Fanny had staid to watch him . 
When Mrs. Middleton heard this , her maternal fears were roused lest her daughter should take the fever , and in a few days she went herself to Frankfort to bring Fanny home . 
She found Mr. Wilmot very ill , but not as yet dangerously so , and after staying a day , she announced her intention of taking Fanny home . 
Mrs. Middleton promised that she would , but persisted in taking Fanny . 
Ike was sent to Frankfort every day to inquire after Mr. Wilmot , and see if any thing was wanted , and each night Fanny waited anxiously for his return . 
As soon as she saw him enter the wood , she would run to him , and inquire for Mr. Wilmot . 
At last Ike brought to Fanny the joyful intelligence that the crisis was passed , and Mr. Wilmot was out of danger . 
On reaching home , her swollen eyelids attracted Fanny 's attention , and excited her fears . 
Fanny will call Ike to go with you . '' 
Fanny arose to do her mother 's bidding , but Julia stopped her by saying , `` You need n't call him , Fanny . '' 
said Fanny , looking wonderingly in Julia 's face . 
exclaimed Fanny . 
While she was still weeping , Fanny stole softly from the apartment , and went in quest of her sister . 
She found her , as she had expected , in her room , and going up to her threw her arms around her neck , and plead long and earnestly that she would go to Mr. Wilmot . 
asked Fanny . 
`` Oh , stop , stop , '' said Fanny , `` you shall not liken Bill Jeffrey to Mr. Wilmot , who is so good , so noble . 
`` Then Iwill , '' said Fanny , `` and show him that I , at least , have not forgotten him . '' 
Fanny hastily ran down stairs , and going to her mother , said , `` Mother , Julia will not go , but I will . 
Mrs. Middleton was too much engrossed in her painful thoughts to give much heed to what Fanny said . 
She only knew that she wished for her consent to something , and she mechanically answered , `` Yes , yes , go . '' 
It was then after sunset , and as the sky had all day been cloudy , darkness was fast gathering over the earth , but Fanny heeded it not . 
She bade Ike make haste , and in a few moments her favorite pony was saddled . 
Still Fanny kept perseveringly on , occasionally speaking an encouraging word to Ike , who pulled his old cap closely over his ears , and muttered , `` Lord bless young miss . 
But Fanny kept her thoughts to herself , and while she is making her way to Frankfort , we will precede her , and see what is taking place in the sick room . 
Fanny was now heard speaking in the hall . 
We have said , that her voice was strangely like her sister 's , so 't was no wonder that Mr. Wilmot in his feverish delirium mistook it . 
When at last animation was restored , Fanny was hanging over his pillow , and Fanny 's tears were upon his cheek ; but he thought it was Julia , and drawing her to him , he imprinted a burning kiss upon her fair brow , saying , `` God bless you for coming , precious Julia , I knew you would come ; and now tell me , do you not love me as well as you always have ? '' 
Fanny was bewildered , and looked imploringly at Mr. Miller , who said , `` Richard , do you think it is Julia who is standing by you now ? '' 
Mr. Miller 's eyes filled with tears as he answered sadly , `` No , Richard , Julia is not here ; it is Fanny who has come . '' 
Fanny answered through her tears , `` No , Mr. Wilmot , I did not write it . 
It is Fanny who is speaking to you . '' 
He seemed surprised to see Fanny there , and to hear the words of endearment addressed to her by Mr. Wilmot , but Mr. Miller softly told him of the mistake . 
This seemed to satisfy him , but he anxiously noted every change of Fanny 's countenance . 
said Fanny , `` Idid not write it . '' 
I can not think it was Fanny , who was always so gentle , so guileless . '' 
Poor Fanny ! 
Then drawing Fanny towards him he looked earnestly in her face . 
Falling back on his pillow , he drew Fanny 's face to his , and with his last breath , kissed her quivering lips , and all was over . 
A few hours after , Fanny entered the room with Dr. Lacey , again to look on the face of Mr. Wilmot . 
There was on his face an expression so calm , and heavenly , that Fanny held her breath while looking at him , lest she should disturb his peaceful repose . 
At length she kissed his cold forehead , and silently left the room which contained the pale sleeper . 
In the course of a few hours she returned home , bearing the sad tidings , which were received by her mother with a burst of tears ; but Julia preserved the same cool indifference which she had manifested throughout all Mr. Wilmot 's illness . 
Mrs. Middleton , Mr. Miller , Dr. Lacey and Fanny , occupied the front seat as principal mourners for the deceased . 
Madam Rumor had been busy with her thousand tongues , and the scene at the death-bed had been told and re-told in twenty different forms , until at last it had become settled that on Fanny 's part there was some secret attachment , or she never would have evinced so much interest in Mr. Wilmot . 
She , however , was ignorant of all this , and sat there , wholly unconscious of the interest she was exciting . 
She had again defied her mother 's commands , and resisted all Fanny 's entreaties , that she would go to the funeral . 
`` You ought to see Mr. Wilmot , '' said Fanny . 
`` He looks so calm , so peaceful , and , '' she added in a low voice , `` so forgiving . '' 
Fanny sighed , and turned away from the hard-hearted girl , who was left alone with her thoughts during all the long hours of that day . 
But to do her justice , we must say , that after her mother and sister were gone , a feeling of sadness stole over her ; her stony heart somewhat softened , and in the solitude of her chamber , she wept for a long time ; but whether for Mr. Wilmot 's death , her own conduct towards him , or the circumstances which surrounded her , none can tell . 
Mrs. Middleton and Mr. Miller stood on one side of the coffin , while Dr. Lacey and Fanny were on the other . 
Fanny gazed long and earnestly upon the face of her teacher , as if she would stamp his likeness with daguerreian accuracy upon her heart . 
She was turning sadly away , when a noise at the door caused all eyes to be directed that way , A pale , lovely face was seen looking anxiously in , and then a slight female figure advanced through the crowd , which gave way for her to pass . 
She passed up the aisle till she reached the coffin , then bursting into a flood of tears , she wrung her hands , exclaiming , `` My brother , oh my precious brother -- are you indeed dead ? '' 
She then imprinted kiss after kiss upon the cold lips of him , who never before disregarded her caresses ; and as the full force of her loss came over her , she uttered a low , piercing cry of anguish , and fell fainting into the arms of Mr. Miller , who recognized in her beautiful features the original of the picture which Mr. Wilmot had shown him a few months before . 
He bore her out into the open air , where he was instantly surrounded by half a dozen ladies , each insisting that the fair stranger should be taken to her house . 
Although Mrs. Carrington had not visited Mr. Wilmot during his illness , she was by no means ignorant of Fanny 's attentions . 
She had taken great pains to comment upon them in Dr. Lacey 's presence , saying , that `` she had often suspected Fanny of possessing a more than ordinary affection for Mr. Wilmot , and she had sometimes thought her affection returned . 
Her object in doing this was to make Dr. Lacey think less favorably of Fanny , for with her practised eye , she had discovered that for no other female did he feel such an interest as for `` Little Fanny Middleton , '' as she always termed her . 
At the grave , she noticed Fanny 's pale face and swollen eyes , and found occasion to say to her , loud enough for Dr. Lacey to hear , `` I am astonished , Fanny , to see you show to the world how much you loved your sister 's betrothed ! '' 
This remark had no effect upon Fanny , except causing her to look at Mrs. Carrington in surprise , and to wonder what she meant . 
Dr. Lacey replied , `` That it was Fanny -- Julia 's younger sister ; '' and then he told how faithfully she had watched over Mr. Wilmot during his illness . 
But now the dream was sadly over , and he had never thought of the gentle Fanny for a wife , since that night when , as he supposed , he saw the dark side of her character . 
Kate Wilmot was not only very handsome , but was also very intelligent and agreeable , and by the time their ride was half completed , Mr. Miller was more than half in love , and was building air-castles just as he had done months before , when Fanny was the mistress of them all . 
About noon they reached Mr. Middleton 's , where they were received very kindly by Mrs. Middleton , very joyfully by Fanny , and very coldly by Julia , whose face always wore a darker frown whenever Mr. Miller was present ; but he apparently did not notice it , and went on conversing upon different subjects . 
The family ran to the door to meet him ; but Fanny could not wait for him to enter the house , neither could she stop to unfasten the gate , but clearing it with one bound , she was soon in the arms of her father , who uttered his usual `` Ha , ha , '' and said , `` Well done , darling ; you 'll do for a cirkis rider . 
Fanny at last went up to him , and said softly , `` Father , Mr. Wilmot is dead ! '' 
let me catch my gals paintin ' and I 'll -- '' But he was prevented from telling what he 'd do by Fanny , who clapped her hands and said , `` Oh father , you are a dear good man ; may we really go ? '' 
`` I thought Fanny would be pleased with the idea , '' said Mr. Miller , `` and even if she had objected , I was going to send the Doctor out , and I know hewould bring her to terms . '' 
Fanny blushed , and her father said , `` Do you think so ? 
This arrangement gave great pleasure to Dr. Lacey , who found it very lonely in Frankfort without Fanny , and had several times spoken of returning to New Orleans . 
But when he learned that Fanny was coming back , he suddenly changed his mind , and concluded that Frankfort would be a charming winter residence . 
This was laughingly told to Fanny by Kate , who had learned to love her very much . 
Julia she disliked , for she had at last drawn from Mr. Miller the whole history of her proceedings , and she could but look upon the false-hearted girl as accessory to her brother 's death . 
There 's Mr. Miller ready to back up whatever Fanny does , and put down whatever I do . 
She also felt great contempt for Kate 's occupation as a teacher , and said , `` she did n't see why folks should make such an ado over a poor music teacher . '' 
Mrs. Carrington answered , `` Of course youfeel interested in New-Yorkers , for Fanny has taken a great fancy to them , and whatever she likes , you must of course . '' 
`` Yes , I know Fanny likes our New-York friends very much , '' said Dr. Lacey . 
`` And I think you will allow that she shows good taste in the choice of her associates . '' 
`` Oh yes , admirable , '' returned Mrs. Carrington , `` almost as good taste as some of my acquaintance show in preferring her . '' 
`` Why , I mean , '' said Mrs. Carrington , `` that I am puzzled to know what attraction such a simple-minded girl as Fanny can have for a person of your intelligence . '' 
She might have said more , but Dr. Lacey stopped her by saying rather warmly , `` Mrs. Carrington , you shall not talk so about Fanny ; I know you do not like her , and consequently , whatever you can say of her , will have no effect upon me . '' 
They were not very pleasant , for Dr. Lacey 's manner had said as plainly as words could say , that she had better mind her own business , and she began to think so herself , for she muttered , `` After all , what is it to me if he does like Fanny ? 
Her neglect was , however , partly made up to him by the kind care of Fanny , who gave him all the time she could possibly spare from her school duties . 
At last , the chilling dews came upon his forehead , his eye grew dim with the mists of death , and then he laid his cold , white hand on Fanny 's head , and prayed most earnestly that Heaven 's choicest blessings , both here and hereafter , might descend upon one who had so kindly smoothed his dark pathway down to the valley of death . 
Fanny begged so earnestly to have him buried by the side of Mr. Wilmot , that Mrs. Carrington finally consented , and the two , who had never seen each other on earth , now lay peacefully side by side . 
She had requested that Fanny should be her bride 's - maid , and the young girl now stood at the altar , with her bright face beaming with happiness , for Dr. Lacey , who was by her side , had , the night before , told her all his love , and had won from her a promise that , at some future time , she would be his . 
He told her that he would speak to her father the next evening . 
Fanny was sure of her father 's consent , but she could not help feeling nervous when she saw him leave the parlor , accompanied by Dr. Lacey . 
A few moments after , she observed that Julia also was missing , and she trembled lest she might have suspected something , and gone to listen . 
`` It 's Fanny I want , and not her money , '' said Dr. Lacey . 
Dr. Lacey proposed that Fanny should continue at school two years longer , and at the end of that time he would claim her as his wife . 
When Dr. Lacey reentered the parlor , Fanny read his success in his face . 
In a short time , he managed to get near her , and bending down , whispered to her , `` My own dear Fanny for ever . '' 
At these words , a beautiful blush suffused Fanny 's usually pale cheek . 
When she saw the bright look of joy which passed over Fanny 's face as the Doctor whispered to her , she pressed her small white hands together , until her long transparent nails left their impress in her flesh ! 
And little Fanny too is really looking quite rosy . 
When the company began to disperse , Dr. Lacey whispered to Fanny that he wished her to remain a few moments , as he had something to say to her . 
Accordingly after the parlor was deserted , he drew her to a sofa , and placing his arm around her , told her of the plan which he had marked out for her improvement during the next two years . 
To all that he required Fanny promised a cheerful compliance , and he proceeded to tell her how he would in the mean time beautify his southern home , and fit it up with every luxury which could please a refined , delicate female . 
By the time he had finished , Fanny was weeping from excess of happiness . 
`` It seems so strange , '' said she , `` that you should prefer me to any one else , me who am so plain looking , so -- '' `` So pure minded and innocent , '' interrupted Dr. Lacey , `` and so lovely too , for to me , you are very handsome . 
Fanny did not reply , and after a few moments ' silence , he said , `` Fanny , I shall be obliged to go to New Orleans soon . '' 
said Fanny . 
By the way , Fanny , I wish you to pay particular attention to music , for you know I am very fond of it . '' 
Fanny promised that she would , and they then separated for the night . 
While Fanny was going to her room , she determined she would tell Julia all her future prospects ; but she found her sister either asleep or pretending to be -LRB- the latter was the fact -RRB- ; so she said nothing , but lay down without disturbing her . 
She could not sleep , however , and towards morning Julia called out in no very gentle tones , `` Do lie still , Fan , or else get up and go down in the parlor and have another tête-à-têtewith Dr. Lacey . '' 
Fanny saw that her sister was awake , and she resolved to improve the opportunity , even if Julia were not in a very gentle mood . 
With many blushes and some stammering Fanny got through with her story . 
Fanny did not answer , and as her mind was relieved from the weighty matter of telling her sister , she soon fell asleep , and when she awoke the sun was high in the heavens , and Mrs. Miller was bending over her , wishing her a `` Merry Christmas ! '' 
When it was opened , it was found to contain an elegant rosewood piano , and a note in which was written , `` A Christmas Gift for Fanny . '' 
The two weeks of Dr. Lacey 's stay passed rapidly away , and at their close he bade Fanny an affectionate good-bye , promising to write regularly twice a week , and to return , if possible , at the end of three months . 
After he was gone it seemed to Fanny that one half of her life had left her , and she felt very unhappy . 
There was something in her sister 's manner which she could not define , and as Julia seemed anxious to avoid her she spent much of her time with Mrs. Miller , who each day grew fonder of her little `` Kentucky sister , '' as she often called her in imitation of her brother . 
Mrs. Carrington was not displeased to find that Julia was determined to break the engagement between Dr. Lacey and Fanny , and secretly hoped she would succeed . 
Not that she wished to aid Julia in securing the Doctor , for such was not her intention . 
In due course of time a letter arrived for Fanny from Dr. Lacey . 
It was a well-filled sheet , and so full of affection and kind suggestions for her improvement , that Fanny felt an increased pleasure in thinking that she was the object of Dr. Lacey 's love . 
For Fanny he had conceived a violent passion , and wondered much that she should repel all his serious advances . 
Fanny was very much annoyed by this letter , and when on the afternoon specified , she saw old `` sorrel '' coming up to the gate , she said , `` Father , there is Joe coming here to offer me the honor of becoming Mrs. Dunn . 
`` Is your daughter Fanny at home ? '' 
`` Yes , she 's at home , '' said Mr. Middleton . 
`` What d'ye want of her ? '' 
`` I should like to have a few moments ' private conference with her , if you 've no objection , sir , '' replied Mr. Dunn . 
You 'd better scratch gravel for home , and if I catch you here again dickerin ' after Fanny , I 'll pull every corn-colored har out of your head ! '' 
This rebuff somewhat cooled the ardor of Joseph 's attachment , and as he felt sure that Fanny had told her father of his coming , he from that time disliked her as much as he had before admired her . 
Julia well knew the old grudge which he had towards Fanny , and as he did not possess the best principles in the world , she had strong hopes of procuring his services for the accomplishment of her purpose . 
`` You know , Mr. Dunn , '' said she , `` that I have money , and I am willing to pay you almost any amount , and then it is such a rare opportunity for being revenged upon Fanny , who did abuse you shamefully , and even now makes all manner of fun of you . 
It will not be much trouble for you , '' she continued , `` for you can watch our box , and whenever a letter arrives from Dr. Lacey , you can lay it aside until you have an opportunity of giving it to me , and you can do the same with Fanny 's letters ! '' 
`` It will be well enough , '' said Julia , `` to let her have three or four letters , as it would not be natural for him to forget her immediately you know . '' 
After having arranged affairs to her satisfaction , Julia bade Mr. Dunn a very friendly good night , and returned home , where she found Fanny employed in writing an answer to Dr. Lacey 's letter . 
Your sweetheart ought to look like Fanny . 
Got her picter , hey ? '' 
Stanton handed him Nellie 's daguerreotype , and he pretended to discover a close resemblance between her and Fanny ; but neither Mrs. Middleton , nor Mrs. Ashton could trace any , for which Mr. Middleton called them both blockheads . 
`` I think , '' said Mrs. Middleton , `` that she looks more like Mr. Ashton , than she does like Fanny . '' 
`` It is similarity of name which makes her resemble him , '' said Raymond . 
`` Why , is her name Ashton ? '' 
`` Mebby she 's your sister , Ashton . 
But Lord knows she do n't look no more like you than she does like old Josh . '' 
`` She can not be my sister , '' said Ashton , `` for I had but one , and she is dead . '' 
Then turning to his wife , he added , `` Where is Fanny ? 
She ought to be here . 
It might do her almost as much good as seeing the Dr. himself . '' 
`` I should like to see Miss Fanny , '' said Stanton , `` as I am told she is to be my cousin . '' 
Going to Fanny 's room , she knocked gently at the door : there was no response , and she knocked again more loudly . 
Pushing open the door , she saw the usually gay-hearted Fanny , seated on the floor , her head resting on a chair , over which her long bright hair fell like a golden gleam of sunlight . 
A second glance convinced Kate that Fanny was weeping . 
`` Why , Fanny , '' said she , `` what is the matter ? 
Fanny did not reply , but as Mrs. Miller drew her up from the floor and placed her on the sofa , she laid her head in Kate 's lap and wept still more passionately . 
`` Oh , '' said Fanny , `` do not ask me , for I can only tell you that nobody loves me long at a time -- nobody but my dear old father , mother , and the blacks . '' 
`` You should not say so , Fanny dear , '' said Kate . 
said Fanny , in a low tone . 
`` Oh no , that can not be , '' answered Fanny . 
`` Yes , once , and I am sorry I did , '' answered Fanny ; `` but I asked Julia if I had better write , and she said it would do no harm . '' 
said Fanny quickly . 
So Mrs. Miller returned to the parlor , and said Fanny was not feeling very well and wished to be excused . 
Stanton occupied Dr. Lacey 's seat , which brought Fanny directly in front of him . 
Fanny had been prepared in a measure for the striking resemblance between Stanton and Dr. Lacey ; but when she was introduced to him , his looks brought Dr. Lacey so forcibly before her , that she instantly grew pale , and half wished to leave the room . 
Stanton 's looks and manners were so much like Dr. Lacey 's , that Fanny felt herself irresistibly drawn towards him , and her face assumed a brighter aspect than it had worn for many days . 
But such was not a part of Fanny 's intentions . 
On the other hand , Stanton 's heart was too strongly fortified with Nellie 's charms to admit of an entrance to the gentle Fanny . 
Thus as days wore on , his polite attentions towards Fanny increased , and Julia resolved to make this fact work for the accomplishment of her designs . 
We have learned from Fanny that four letters arrived from Dr. Lacey ; but the fifth she was destined never to receive . 
She was expecting it on Tuesday , and was about going to the post-office , when Julia said , `` Fanny , I feel just like walking this morning ; suppose you let merun round to the office and get your expected letter . '' 
`` Very well , '' answered Fanny ; `` but do n't be gone long . '' 
So saying she departed , and Fanny sat down by the window to await her return . 
She was very amiable and kind to the household in general and to Fanny in particular . 
At first Fanny was surprised at her affectionate advances , but it was so pleasant to have a sister who would love her , that she did not ask the reason of so sudden a change and when Julia very humblyasked forgiveness for all her former unkindness , the innocent-hearted Fanny burst into tears , and declared she had nothing to forgive , if her sister would only continue to love her always . 
Julia placed a Judas-like kiss on Fanny 's pure brow , and gave a promise that she would try to be good ; but she thought to herself , `` this seeming change will make a favorable impression on Dr. Lacey , when he hears of it . '' 
She knew that Fanny was expecting a letter on the Tuesday morning of which we have spoken , and fearing that by some means Mr. Dunn might fail of securing it , she determined to go herself for the mail . 
When she reached the post-office , the sinister smile with which Mr. Dunn greeted her , assured her that he had something for her , and she readily conjectured that it was Fanny 's expected letter . 
said she . 
On her way home , conscience clamored loudly in behalf of Fanny 's rights . 
Give Fanny her letter . 
But again the monitress was stilled , and the crafty girl kept on her way , firm in her sinful purpose , until she reached the corner which brought her in sight of the window where Fanny was impatiently watching for her . 
The sight of that bright , joyous face , as it looked from the window , anxious for the expected sight of her letter , made Julia for a moment waver . 
She thought how gentle and loving Fanny had always been to her , and involuntarily her hand sought the letter which lay like a crushing weight in her pocket . 
Julia listened to the tempter , her hand was withdrawn , and Fanny looked in vain for her letter . 
A faint sickness stole over her for a moment , but she thought , `` Perhaps Julia means to tease me . 
So when Julia entered the room , she found that her sister 's attention was suddenly attracted by something in the street ; but Fanny was not accustomed to dissemble , and the rosy flush on her cheek showed how anxious she was . 
At last Julia said , `` Why do you not ask for your letter , Fanny ? '' 
Fanny 's countenance fell , and she said , `` Then you have n't got me a letter ? 
Alone in her room poor Fanny was weeping bitterly . 
This was the question which she continually asked herself . 
A suspicion of his unfaithfulness had not yet entered her mind . 
While she was yet weeping , an arm was thrown affectionately round her , and a voice whispered in the sweetest possible tones , `` Dear sister , do not weep so . 
If he were dead , some one would inform you . 
And now I think of it , why do you not write to him ? 
Come sit down , and write him a few lines before dark , and I will take them to the office . '' 
So Fanny sat down to her writing-desk , and the few linesproved to be a long letter ere she had finshed . 
After Julia returned from her walk that evening , she said , `` Fanny , if I were you I would not tell any one that I did not hear from Dr. Lacey , for you know it 's just possible that he may not be sick , and in that case your best way would be to seem quite as forgetful of him . '' 
said Fanny , `` Why , Julia , what do you mean ? 
And Fanny 's large blue eyes were fixed on her sister with as much earnestness as though her answer would decide her fate for ever . 
Fanny answered slowly , as if speaking were painful to her , `` Oh no , no ! 
Fanny immediately offered to stay with her , but Julia declined , saying that sooner than both should be absent from church she would go herself . 
She sprang hastily up , and thrusting her writing materials into the box , locked it , and had just time to throw herself upon the sofa , when Fanny knocked at the door . 
said Fanny . 
In the afternoon Fanny again went to church , and Julia resumed the occupation of the morning . 
She succeeded so well , that before church was out , she felt sure that after a few more attempts she could imitate Dr. Lacey 's writing so exactly as to thoroughly deceive Fanny . 
`` But not yet , '' said she to herself ; `` I do not wish to test my skill yet . 
Nearly two weeks passed , and there had come no answer to Fanny 's letter . 
She did not know that regularly , -- twice a week , letters had arrived from New Orleans , and had been handed to Julia by Mr. Dunn . 
In the last of these letters , Dr. Lacey complained because Fanny had neglected writing so long . 
One line from you , dearest Fanny , will fill my heart with sunshine again -- '' Thus wrote the Doctor , and Julia commented on it as follows : `` Yes , you are haunted , and I am glad of it . 
The pill is working well ; I 'll see whether ` Sunshine , ' as you and my old fool father call her , will steal away every body 's love from me . 
Slowly but surely the painful conviction fixed itself upon Fanny 's mind that Dr. Lacey was false . 
It was dreadful to think so , but there seemed no other alternative , and Fanny 's heart grew sadder , and her step less joyous and elastic , while her merry laugh was now seldom heard ringing out in its clear , silvery tones , making the servants stop their work to listen and exclaim , `` How lonesome ` twould be without Miss Fanny ; she 's the life of the house , Lor bless her . '' 
Fanny had too much of woman 's pride to allow any one except Julia to know the real cause of her sadness , and was glad to have her languor ascribed to over exertion . 
Mr. Stanton 's presence seemed to divert Fanny 's mind , and the two weeks following his arrival passed away more pleasantly than she had thought two weeks could pass , uncheered by a line from Dr. Lacey . 
At the end of that time it pleased Julia that Fanny should have a pretended letter from New Orleans . 
Fanny was seated in the parlor in company with Stanton , when Julia suddenly entered the room , and said , `` Oh , here you are , sister . 
A bright , beautiful flush suffused Fanny 's face , which became irradiated with a sudden joy . 
Asking Mr. Stanton to excuse her , she went to her room , so as to be alone when she perused the precious document . 
After she was gone , Julia spoke of Dr. Lacey , and asked Stanton if he ever heard from him . 
On reaching her apartment , Fanny sat down on the sofa , while a tremulous nervousness shook her frame . 
She dreaded to open the letter , for a strange forboding of evil came over her . 
At last the seal was broken , and Fanny 's heart stood still , and a dizziness crept over her as she read . 
For the reader 's benefit , we will look over her shoulder and read with her the following : `` I hardly know how to write what I wish to tell you . 
Fanny , you must try and forget that you ever knew one so wholly unworthy of you as I am . 
But at last I yielded , and now , Fanny , will you forgive me ! 
Be happy , Fanny , and sometime when I am travelling through Kentucky , let me find you the cheerful , contented wife of one more suitable for you than I am . 
`` With many kind wishes for your happiness , I remain Alas for Fanny ! 
Julia 's first feeling was one of intense horror , for fear her sister might be dead , but a touch assured her that Fanny had only fainted . 
So she lifted her up and bearing her to the window , applied the usual restoratives . 
As Julia looked on the deathlike face of her young sister , she murmured , `` Had I thought she loved him so well , never would I have done so wickedly . '' 
But she made no promise to repair the mischief , and stifled all the better impulses of her nature , by saying , `` It is too late now ; it is too late . '' 
At last Fanny opened her eyes . 
Julia took it , and pretending to read it , burst into a violent passion , abusing Dr. Lacey for his meanness , and ending by telling Fanny that she ought to consider herself fortunate in escaping from so unprincipled a man . 
Fanny seemed disturbed to hear evil spoken of Dr. Lacey , so Julia changed her manner , and said , `` I do not wonder you feel badly , Fanny . 
Fanny looked at her sister in some surprise , but at last answered , `` Oh no , you can not know how I feel . 
said Fanny , and again she fell back , cold and motionless . 
And forgive me , Fanny , but sometimes I have felt angered at you , because you seemed to steal everybody 's love from me . 
`` I know it , I know it , '' said Fanny . 
And then she suddenly added , `` It seems doubtful whether he marries that young lady . 
`` Oh , it is impossible for me to marry him now , '' said Fanny ; `` but if you were happy with him , I would try to be happy too . '' 
Fanny did not reply , and after a moment 's silence Julia said , `` Sister , if I were you , I would keep all this a secret , and even if I were unhappy , I would try to assume a forced cheerfulness , for fear people would suspect the truth , and call me lovesick . '' 
Fanny did not reply to this either . 
A physician was immediately called , and by the means of powerful remedies , the progress of the disease was checked , so that Fanny was seriously ill for only a week . 
She was delirious a great part of the time , but Julia was delighted to find that not one word of Dr. Lacey ever passed her lips . 
The old man came quickly , for Fanny was his idol , and if she should die , he would be bereaved indeed . 
With untiring love , he watched by her bedside until the crisis was passed . 
He would fan her fevered brow , moisten her parched lips , chafe her hot , burning hands , smooth her tumbled pillow , and when at last he succeeded in soothing her into a troubled slumber , he would sit by her , and gaze on her wan face with an earnestness which seemed to say that she was his all of earth , his more than all of heaven . 
But he did not suspect the truth , and in speaking of Fanny 's illness , he said , `` It is studyin ' so close , that ailded her . 
Accordingly as soon as the physician pronounced it safe to move her , she was taken home , and by her mother 's assiduous care , and Aunt Katy 's skilful nursing , her physical health was soon much improved . 
To this Fanny readily agreed , and in a few days she was again in Frankfort , occupying her accustomed seat at Mrs. Crane 's table and bending over her task in the old schoolroom , which seemed suddenly illuminated by her presence . 
Dear little Fanny ! 
The Sunshinewas obscured , and Julia alone knew what anguish Fanny endured . 
Little did Fanny think that he , whose false-heartedness she deplored , dreamed each night of his distant dear one , and that each day his warm heart beat more quickly , because no tidings came from her . 
A few days after Fanny 's return there came cards of invitation for a large party at the residence of a Mr. C -- . 
Magnificent bracelets , which had cost her father almost as many oaths as dollars , glittered on her white rounded arms . 
Her snowy neck , which was also uncovered , was without ornament . 
Her glossy hair , dark as night , was arranged in the most becoming manner . 
At the time Mr. Middleton had given Julia her bracelets , he had presented Fanny with a bandeau of pearls . 
Ashton replied , `` She is not called half as beautiful , but she is much more amiable ; but see , there she comes , '' continued he , as Fanny entered the room leaning on Stanton 's arm . 
She was so pale that her skin seemed almost transparent , but the excitement of the evening brought a bright glow to her cheek which greatly enhanced her loveliness . 
She was simply attired in a plain white muslin , low at the neck , which was veiled by the soft curls of her silken hair . 
Her arms were encircled by a plain band of gold , and a white , half opened rosebud , was fastened to the bosom of her dress . 
As she entered the room many admiring eyes were turned towards her , and Miss Woodburn exclaimed , `` Oh , how lovely she is ! 
Her sister seems more like the flashing diamond , while Fanny 's beauty is like the soft lustre of the pearl . 
But tell me , '' she continued , `` is she not engaged to a Dr. Lacey of New Orleans ? '' 
She had heard them speak of Dr. Lacey and Fanny , and as she knew Florence was soon going to New Orleans , she wished to give her a little Frankfort gossip to take with her . 
We were just talking of the probability of Miss Fanny 's being engaged to Dr. Lacey . 
It is rather uncertain whom Miss Fanny likes or dislikes . 
`` Oh , '' said Mr. Ashton , `` I never supposed Fanny was so much of a coquette . '' 
`` Neither do I think she is , '' said Florence , whose heart warmed towards Fanny as soon as she saw her . 
`` Perhaps she is not , '' said Mrs. Carrington . 
`` Fanny is very young yet , but when fully matured will perhaps make a noble woman , but she has not the solidity of her sister , who tries hard to keep her from assuming the appearance of a flirt . '' 
`` Perhaps you had better say nothing to him about Fanny 's flirtation with Stanton , for he would hardly believe it . '' 
From the first she had been attracted towards Fanny . 
It seemed to her that Fanny would gladly have left that scene of gayety , and going out by herself , would have poured out her soul in tears . 
She earnestly desired an introduction , and at last it was obtained . 
Fanny 's voice trembled slightly as she answered , `` Tell whom ? '' 
The fire shot from Fanny 's eyes , but one look at the open face at her side assured her , and she answered , `` I am not answerable for what the world please to say of me . '' 
A momentary struggle took place in Fanny 's mind . 
Fanny did not answer , and as Stanton just then approached , and asked her to go to the music-room , she took his arm readily , glad to escape from so painful a conversation . 
`` She is a strange girl , '' thought Florence , `` and yet I know I should love her . 
I wonder what makes her so sad . 
Can it be that she really loved that Mr. Wilmot ? 
At any rate I am sorry for her , and hope she will marry Mr. Stanton , who seems much pleased with her . '' 
Fanny returned home , weary and sick at heart . 
Her conversation with Florence had awakened painful reminiscences of the past , and the gray daylight was beginning to streak the eastern horizon ere her heavy eyelids closed in slumber . 
In a few days Florence Woodburn departed for New Orleans , where her mother 's brother resided . 
We will take passage with her and pay a visit to Dr. Lacey in his southern home . 
`` What can be the reason , '' thought he , `` that Fanny does not write ? 
If Fanny were sick , some one would write to you . '' 
Mr. Lacey senior was also rather anxious that his son should marry Mabel ; so Julia was not far out of the way , when she wrote to Fanny that Dr. Lacey 's parents wished to secure a match between him and a New Orleans belle . 
Had Dr. Lacey never seen Fanny , he possibly might have wedded Mabel . 
`` Mr. Wilmot is dead , and it is whispered that Fanny 's heart was buried with him . 
I should not be surprised if it were so , for Fanny has the saddest face I ever saw . 
It made me want to cry when I looked at her . 
I should have pitied her more , however , had she not been so well cared for by a Mr. Stanton , from New-York . '' 
`` I did not blame her for liking Stanton , for he would break half your hearts and turn the rest of you crazy . '' 
`` But the sister , '' asked all the young ladies , `` how was she affected to think Fanny loved her betrothed ? '' 
`` You ought to see her ! 
She is beautiful , beyond any thing I can describe . 
She eclipsed every thing and every body . '' 
`` And is she as agreeable as handsome ? '' 
asked Mabel , whose fears were aroused that Julia might be her rival , instead of Fanny . 
Florence replied , `` I was told that she was formerly very passionate , so much so that her father nicknamed her Tempest . 
Within a few months she has entirely changed , and is now very amiable ; but I liked Fanny 's looks the best . '' 
`` But , Dr. Lacey , -- what had he to do with Fanny ? '' 
In fact I know they are not , from what Fanny said herself ; for she assured me that Dr. Lacey was nothing to her more than a common acquaintance ; and the sad but sweet smile which broke over her face whenever she raised her soft blue eyes to Stanton 's animated countenance , confirmed what she said . '' 
Dr. Lacey rather wished to avoid making Florence 's acquaintance , fearing that she might say something to him of Fanny . 
`` Yes , very , '' answered Florence ; `` but I liked Fanny 's looks the best . '' 
A pang shot through Dr. Lacey 's heart at the mention of Fanny 's name , but he continued to inquire concerning his friends in Kentucky . 
Occasionally he would whisper to himself , `` My Fanny false ! 
Resentment towards Fanny for thus deceiving him , mingled with his grief . 
While doing this sleep descended upon him , and in his dreams he saw again his darling Fanny , not false and faithless as he had feared , but arrayed in a spotless bridal robe . 
at the same time extending a letter , the superscription of which made Dr. Lacey turn pale , for he recognized , as he supposed , Fanny 's delicate handwriting . 
Yet do not , I beseech you , cast them off for poor Fanny 's sin . 
he exclaimed , `` most likely Julia is as hollowhearted as her sister , and yet many dark spots on her character seem to be wiped away by Fanny 's confession . '' 
Dr. Lacey sighed , for he remembered the time when he was drawn towards Fanny , because he fancied she resembled the only sister heever had . 
Mr. Middleton observed it , and immediately said , `` Does it make you sigh just to mention Fanny ? 
Has she jilted you ? 
If she has , she does not partake of the nature of the Middletons , for they could never stoop to deceit . '' 
Here Florence came to Dr. Lacey 's relief , by saying , `` Why , Dr. Lacey , Mr. Middleton wants you to repeat what I have already told him , that Julia is exceedingly beautiful and that Fanny is as lovely as a Houri , and has the saddest , sweetest face I ever saw , and the softest , mildest blue eye . '' 
He was thinking how much pleasure such an arrangement would have given him a few months ago ; but now all was changed , and the thought of again meeting Fanny , afforded him more pain than pleasure . 
On a low stool , at her feet , sits Fanny . 
As yet , she had kept Fanny 's secret inviolate , and not even her husband had ever suspected the cause of Fanny 's failing strength . 
But , this afternoon , as she looked on the fair girl 's sad , white face , which seemed to grow whiter and thinner each day , she felt her heart swell with indignation towards one who had wrought this fearful change . 
`` Surely , '' thought she , `` if Dr. Lacey could know the almost fatal consequence of his faithlessness , he would relent ; and he must , he shall know it . 
Then came the thought that she had promised not to betray Fanny 's confidence ; but she did not despair of gaining her consent , that Mr. Miller should also know the secret . 
For a time , Fanny slept on sweetly and quietly ; then she moved uneasily in her slumber , and finally awoke . 
`` Oh , much better , '' said Fanny . 
Quick as thought , the crimson tide stained Fanny 's cheek and forehead , but she answered , somewhat bitterly , `` Oh , no , no ! 
Poor little Fanny ! 
After a time , Mrs. Miller said , `` Fanny , Mr. Miller seems very anxious about your altered and languid appearance . 
At first , Fanny objected . 
`` I know , '' said she , `` that Mr. Miller would only think me a weak , silly girl . '' 
`` I know , though , '' persisted Fanny , `` that he will laugh at me . 
With many tears and some laughing -- for the remembrance of the exploit always excited her mirth -- Fanny told a part of what we already know , concerning Mr. Miller 's visit at her father 's , the winter previous . 
She related the adventure of the sled-ride , and said that the morning after she noticed a change in Mr. Miller 's manner towards her . 
While she was yet speaking , Mr. Miller entered the room . 
On seeing Fanny there , and weeping , he said : `` What , Sunshine , in tears ? 
But come , Fanny , tell me what is the matter . '' 
said Fanny , and again she buried her face in Kate 's lap . 
Mr. Miller looked inquiringly at his wife , who had not yet ceased laughing at Fanny 's ludicrous description of her sled-ride ; but overcoming her merriment , she at length found voice to say , `` Fanny is crying because she thinks you do not like her as well as you used to . '' 
Neither did she think there was the least ground for Fanny 's supposition , and she desired her husband to say so . 
asked Kate and Fanny both , in the same breath . 
Mr. Miller drew Fanny towards him with the freedom of an elder brother , and , in a low , earnest tone , said : `` Did nothing else occur during my visit , which could have changed my opinion of you ? '' 
Fanny lifted her large blue eyes to Mr. Miller 's face with so truthful , wondering a gaze , that he was puzzled . 
I will , at least , ask her how she spent that evening , '' so he said : `` Fanny , do you remember where you were , or how you were occupied during the last evening of my stay at your father 's ? '' 
At first , Fanny seemed trying to recall the events of that night ; then she said : `` Oh , yes , I remember now perfectly well . 
`` Yes , '' said Fanny ; `` or , that is , I staid there all the time ; but Julia was gone a long time , and when she returned she would not tell me where she had been . '' 
said Fanny ; `` I do not remember having seen her once that night ; neither was I in my own room until bed-time . '' 
There was so much frankness and apparent truth in Fanny 's face and manner , that Mr. Miller never for a moment doubted her . 
His first feeling was one of intense happiness , at finding that Fanny was , indeed , all he had once fancied her to be . 
Back through the channels of his heart rolled , for an instant , the full tide of his once secretly nurtured affection for her . 
`` Fanny , '' said he , `` I have wronged you in thought , but never in word or deed , to my knowledge . 
What dreadful thing did you imagine Fanny had done ? 
Mr. Miller did not immediately answer ; and Fanny said : `` Come , Mr. Miller , it is not fair to suspect me of something evil and not tell what it is . '' 
`` I will tell you , '' said Mr. Miller ; and , in as few words as possible , he repeated to Fanny he conversation which he had overheard , between Luce and herself , as he supposed . 
When he finished speaking , both Kate and Fanny were silent for a moment ; then Kate said : `` It was Julia , I know it was . 
`` Oh , Mrs. Miller , '' said Fanny , `` it can not be ! 
Here Fanny burst into tears , while Kate gave vent to her indignation by expressing her opinion pretty freely of Miss Julia . 
I fancy she was always fearful lest my brother should like Fanny the best ; and she probably took this method to make you both think meanly of Fanny . '' 
Kate commenced an explanation , but Fanny started up , saying : `` Please , Mrs. Miller , wait until I am gone . '' 
She then quitted the apartment , and sought her own room , of which Julia had been sole occupant for more than an hour . 
Seating herself near the window , with paper and pencil , she began the composition of that letter , which , as we have seen , widened the breach between Dr. Lacey and Fanny . 
The letter was but half completed , when Fanny was heard coming slowly through the upper hall . 
Springing up , Julia darted through the window out upon the balcony , and by the time Fanny reached the room , she was seated at the furthest end of the verandah , busily engaged with her forgery . 
When she at last returned to her room , and tried to converse with her sister , she observed that Fanny shrank from her approach and that she had been weeping . 
Fanny replied very calmly , and without once taking her eyes from her sister 's face , `` If you think I have been crying about Dr. Lacey , you are mistaken . '' 
`` I cried , '' said Fanny , `` because I feared you had been acting very wickedly towards me . '' 
In an instant Julia 's assurance left her . 
The bright color forsook her cheek , which became perfectly white . 
Fanny noticed the change , and it confirmed her fears . 
She did not know that the circumstances to which she alluded had long since faded from Julia 's memory , and that her present agitation arose from the fear that she might have been detected in her work of deception , and that , after all , she might be foiled and entangled in her own meshes . 
Fanny supposed she referred to Luce ; and her first feeling was to save the helpless servant girl from Julia 's displeasure ; so she said , `` Do not condemn Luce ; she did not tell me . 
This sudden change in her sister 's appearance puzzled Fanny ; but she proceeded to relate what she had just heard from Mr. Miller . 
Finally , she decided on the former , but resolved not to give the right reason for her conduct ; so she said , with an air of great penitence : `` Yes , Fanny , I am guilty , and I am glad you know it , too . 
asked Fanny . 
`` And yet you say you never cared for his love , '' continued Fanny . 
Always sincere in what she said herself , Fanny could not think her sister otherwise ; so her hand was extended in token of forgiveness . 
Could Fanny have looked into the heart of her sister , and beheld all its dark designs , she would have fled from her presence as from a poisonous serpent . 
In his letter , however , he spoke as favorably of her as he could ; but he told how basely she had once deceived himself and Mr. Wilmot , with regard to Fanny , and also hinted his own and his wife 's suspicion , that , in some way or other , Julia was connected with Dr. Lacey 's long silence , as well as with the heartless letter which Fanny had received from New Orleans . 
`` Oh , Kate , '' said Mr. Miller , gayly , `` your anxiety for Fanny has made you nervous , and now you are almost superstitious . 
She however handed him her letter , which he looked at in some surprise , and said , in a low tone , `` From Fanny , or you ? '' 
Leaving the office the young lady proceeded homeward , thinking to herself , `` There , that will settle him , I hope . 
When Mr. Miller entered his room , on his return from the office , Kate said , `` In the course of two weeks , you or Fanny , or both , will hear from Dr. Lacey . '' 
`` Well , '' continued Kate , `` if he pays no attention to your letter , I shall be satisfied that he really is undeserving of Fanny 's esteem . 
Kate manifested her disappointment by an increased tenderness of manner towards Fanny , whom she sincerely loved , and by a more gracious deportment towards Julia , whom she began to fear she had wronged by suspecting her of being accessory to Dr. Lacey 's conduct . 
Itwas now the first day of May , and as it was also Fanny 's seventeenth birthday , her school companions determined to celebrate it by a May party , of which Fanny was unanimously chosen queen . 
Mrs. Miller had taken great pains that Fanny should be arrayed becomingly for the occasion , and many and flattering were the compliments paid to the youthful queen , who indeed looked bewitchingly beautiful . 
The gayety of the little party was at its height , and when Fanny , gracefully kneeling , received upon her head the crown , and was proclaimed `` Queen of the May , '' a strange voice called out in loud musical tones , `` Vive la Reine . '' 
His eyes were riveted on Fanny , whose face and figure recalled to his remembrance his only sister , who was the playmate of his childish years . 
Fanny so strongly resembled her aunt , that 't was not strange Mr. Middleton for an instant fancied he again looked on the features of his long lost sister . 
`` But come with me , Mr. Middleton , '' continued she , `` and I will present you to Fanny . '' 
`` I 'd laugh to see myself doing it , '' answered Frank , as he followed his gay cousin to the spot where Fanny was standing . 
All eyes were upon them , while Kate introduced the tall , distinguished looking gentleman to Fanny as her uncle . 
said Fanny , in some surprise ; `` My uncle ! '' 
`` Oh , yes , yes , '' said Fanny , joyfully . 
At the same time the affectionate girl again took her uncle 's hand and raised it to her lips . 
The tears started to Mr. Middleton 's eyes , but hastily dashing them away , he said , `` I suppose the fair Queen Fanny knows that bad billsalways return ? '' 
Fanny replied by again kissing the sunburned hand of her uncle . 
Frank had been standing near Fanny , fixing upon her a gaze so intensely earnest , that when she at last raised her eyes to his , she blushed deeply , for there was no mistaking the look of deep admiration with which he regarded her . 
Fanny received him very politely , but said playfully , `` I was in hopes , Mr. Cameron , that you would prove to be my cousin . '' 
Mr. Middleton instantly answered , `` No , dear Fanny , he is not your cousin , but he seems very desirous of being my nephew . '' 
Fanny did not apply this to herself , but answered very demurely , `` I do n't know what he 'll do , Uncle . 
Fanny answered , somewhat sadly , `` I 've nothing to give . '' 
When our party reached Mrs. Crane 's , Fanny went directly to Julia , whom she found most becomingly dressed , and apparently anxiously awaiting her return . 
said she , `` that ` ar tall , black man -- no , I ax yer pardon , Miss -- that ` ar tall , yaller man , done shook hands ` long of Miss Fanny , who kissed him , and called him Uncle William . 
She said how he done been with the Injuns . '' 
`` Her Uncle William ! '' 
I tell you he 's han ` some ; and I reckon he 's tuk with Miss Fanny . 
Most likely , Fanny has won his good graces by this time . 
Accordingly , the next hour was spent in decorating her person , and when Fanny came for her , she was ready to make an assault upon the good opinion of her rich India uncle . 
Not a thing was out of place , from the shining braids of her dark hair to the tiny slipper on her delicate foot . 
Fanny 's first exclamation on entering the room , was , `` How beautifully you look , Julia ! 
`` Yes , '' answered Fanny . 
asked Fanny , in some astonishment . 
Fanny did not think of doubting her sister , and she answered , `` It is a Mr. Cameron . 
`` I will not kiss him , '' thought she ; `` Fanny did that . 
Could she have known the contrast which her uncle was drawing between her own and Fanny 's reception of him , she would not have felt much flattered ; but , before her uncle had time to say any thing further , Fanny introduced her to Frank , whose keen eye had read her character at a glance , and read it aright , too . 
She 's handsome , though , but is n't to be named the same day with Fanny . '' 
The introductions being over , Julia seated herself on the sofa , while Fanny took a seat on a low ottoman near her uncle , but partially behind him . 
She had chosen this place , because she fancied it would screen her somewhat from Frank 's eyes , which she felt , rather than saw , were fixed upon her constantly . 
Her curiosity was soon gratified ; for , at the mention of New Orleans , Mr. Middleton , as if suddenly recollecting himself , said , turning to Fanny , `` I saw two of your acquaintances in New Orleans , and one of them gave me a most glowing description of you . '' 
Julia 's thoughts were similar , and she bit her lip , while Fanny 's cheek glowed with unwonted brilliancy , as she quietly asked , `` Pray , who was it , Uncle ? '' 
Without knowing it , Fanny drew nearer to her uncle , and laid her hand on his . 
He seemed dearer to her from the fact that he had spent so much time with one whose image was ever before her , and whom she vainly fancied she was trying to forget . 
Frank noticed Fanny 's manner and interpreted it according to his fears . 
There was an embarrassing silence , which Julia presently broke , by saying , `` While Dr. Lacey was here , he and Fanny got up a flirtation ; but nothing serious will result from it , I reckon . '' 
`` It 's Fanny 's own fault , then , I imagine , '' said Mr. Middleton , laying his hand on the head which had drooped lower and lower , until at last it rested heavily upon his knee . 
Fanny made no reply ; but , when she lifted up her head , there was something so sad in the expression of her face , that Mr. Middleton immediately surmised that there was , or had been , something between Dr. Lacey and Fanny more serious than a mere flirtation ; so he very kindly changed the conversation , which now turned upon indifferent subjects , until the supper bell rang out its summons , when they all repaired to the dining-room . 
But Frank thought he was minding his business ; for he was looking at Fanny , who had not taken her eyes from her plate since her uncle had proposed taking herself and Julia to New Orleans . 
Her first feeling was one of joy . 
She would go , for she would then see Dr. Lacey ; but the next thought was , `` No , I will not . 
She felt sure that Fanny would not go ; but shewould , and could thus make Dr. Lacey believe that she , of all others , was just suited for him . 
In it she would modestly express her opinion of Fanny 's conduct ; sympathize with him in his disappointment , and end by inviting him to Frankfort , saying she hoped he would not absent himself from his friends on Fanny 's account ; for there were many who would welcome him back to Kentucky with pleasure . 
answered Fanny . 
Julia made no reply , but Fanny said , `` Give them my love , and tell them I am getting better every day , and shall want to come home soon , '' and then she added , in a lower tone , `` You will not laugh at father much , will you , or make fun of him either , if he does act oddly ? '' 
As the carriage drove off , Julia turned to Fanny and said , `` Wo n't they have fun , though , with the old man ? 
Fanny was only too fearful that ` twould all be as Julia predicted , but she made no answer , and soon returned to her room . 
`` They are well , '' answered Mr. Miller , `` or rather Julia is , and Fanny is improving every day . '' 
`` No , sir , '' answered Frank , and Ashton rejoined , `` I imagine he wishes Fanny had never known him . '' 
I like New-Yorkers , and if Sunshine was n't done promised to Dr. Lacey , and never had seen him , and I liked you , I 'd as soon you 'd have her as any body . '' 
But for the remembrance of his promise to Fanny , Mr. Stafford would have screamed . 
His discomfiture was , however , somewhat relieved by his companions , all of whom burst into a fit of laughter , in which Mr. Stafford heartily joined , forgetful of his promise to Fanny . 
Here Mr. Stafford said , `` Your sister 's name was Fanny , I believe . '' 
`` I hope you are not very anxious to have Fanny go North , '' said William ; `` for it will seriously affect a plan which I have formed . '' 
`` Fanny said nothing , but Julia seemed much pleased with the idea , '' said William . 
Fanny felt differently . 
She wished , yet dreaded to go home . 
She too knew why they were sent for ; and as she was determined not to go to New Orleans , it would be necessary at last to tell her father the true reason . 
She was certain he would be unsparing in his wrath against Dr. Lacey , and she almost trembled for the consequences . 
When at last she was ready , she descended to the parlor , and sitting down to her piano , ran her fingers lightly over the keys . 
He had learned from his cousin , Kate , enough of Fanny 's history to make him fear that she never could be aught to him ; and yet the knowledge that he could not , must not hope to win her , only rendered the attraction stronger . 
He was intending to start for home the next day , and had now come to spend a few moments alone with Fanny , ere he bade her good-bye . 
As he entered the room , she ceased playing , and said , `` I believe you leave town to-morrow , do you not ? '' 
As Fanny made no answer , Frank continued , `` Miss Middleton , we shall meet again , I trust . 
Fanny replied , `` I have thought of going North with Mrs. Miller , but it is possible I may be disappointed . '' 
We do not know what Fanny would have replied ; for ere she had time to answer , Julia appeared in the door , calling out , `` Come , Fan , the carriage is ready . 
This increased Fanny 's confusion , but she endeavored to appear at ease ; and rising up , she offered Frank her hand , saying , `` I must now bid you farewell , Mr. Cameron . '' 
Frank took her hand , and quick as thought , raised it to his lips . 
Fanny 's cheeks reddened as she hastily withdrew her hand , saying rather indignantly , `` Mr. Cameron , I am surprised ! '' 
When Julia and Fanny reached home , they were greeted kindly both by their parents and uncle . 
The latter had resolved to watch them closely , in order to ascertain , if possible , the reason of his brother 's evident preference for Fanny . 
Fanny occupied her accustomed seat and low stool by the side of her father , whose pipe she filled and refilled ; for he said , `` The tobacker tasted a heap better after Sunshine had handled it . '' 
`` Well , father , '' said Julia , coaxingly , `` you are going to let Fanny and me go with Uncle William , I know . '' 
It was lucky for Julia that she chanced to mention her sister ; for however much her father might be inclined to tease her , the word `` Fanny '' mollified him at once , and he answered , `` Why , yes ; I may as well let you go as to keep you here doing nothing , and eating up my corn bread . '' 
Then drawing Fanny nearer to him , he said , `` I 've talked some of letting Sunshine go to New-York , but she 'll jump at the chance of going to New Orleans , I reckon . '' 
During all this time , Fanny said not a word ; and at last it occurred to her father , that she had neither expressed her desire nor willingness to go ; so he said , `` Come , Sunshine , why do n't you hold up your head and talk about it ? 
Fanny knew it was of no use delaying longer , and she answered gently , but decidedly , `` Father , I have no desire to go to New Orleans . 
Fanny answered , `` You know I have thought of going to New-York with Mr. and Mrs. Miller . 
The old cob pipe dropped from Mr. Middleton 's mouth , and springing up , he confronted Fanny , saying , `` What in fury is the racket ? 
said Fanny , weeping ; `` if you knew all that has occurred , you would not blame me . '' 
William very wisely kept silent , but Fanny said , `` Do not accuse Julia , for she is not guilty . 
`` I can not tell you now , '' said Fanny ; `` but when we are alone , you shall know all . '' 
In a few moments William thought proper to retire , and as his example was soon followed by Julia , Fanny was left alone with her parents . 
Drawing her stool nearer to her father , and laying her hot , feverish forehead upon his hand , she said , `` Before I give any explanation I wish you to make me a promise . '' 
asked her father and mother , simultaneously . 
`` It is not probable , '' answered Fanny , `` that you will ever see Dr. Lacey again , but if you do , I wish you never to mention to him what I am about to tell you . '' 
`` Then I shall not tell you , '' was Fanny 's firm reply . 
Her father saw she was in earnest , and replied , `` What 's got your back up so high , Sunshine ? 
`` Because , '' said Fanny , hesitatingly , `` because I do not wish him to know how much I care about it ; and besides , it can do no possible good . 
Fanny knew it would not not be broken , for her father prided himself on keeping his word . 
So she gave an account of Dr. Lacey 's conduct , and ended her narrative by producing the letter , which she supposed came from him . 
Up to this moment Mr. Middleton had sat perfectly still ; but meantime his wrath had waxed warmer and warmer , until at last it could no longer be restrained , but burst forth in such a storm of fury as made Fanny stop her ears . 
Fanny 's fears for Dr. Lacey 's safety were immediately roused ; and again were her arms wound round the neck of her enraged father , while she begged of him to be quiet , and think reasonably of the matter . 
Not long could any one resist the arguments of Fanny ; and in less than half an hour her father grew calm , and said more gently , `` I should n't have been so rarin ' mad , if it had been any body besides you , Sunshine . 
said Fanny : `` Oh , I am so glad ! 
Fanny shuddered at the idea of her father becoming the murderer of Dr. Lacey , and Mrs. Middleton rejoined , `` I am glad , husband , to hear you talk more sensibly . 
`` But , father , '' said Fanny , `` you will let Julia go , of course . 
Afterwards Fanny remembered this speech , and understood it too ; but now she was prevented from giving it a thought by her father , who continued , `` Does n't that Carmeron chap live some'us in New-York ? '' 
There was no reason for it , but Fanny blushed deeply as she replied , `` Yes , sir , Mr. Cameron lives in New-York city ; but I am not going to see him . '' 
`` Mebby not , '' answered her father ; `` but my name ai n't Josh if he wo n't be on the lookout for you . 
`` That will never , never be , '' answered Fanny . 
Fanny obeyed and retired to her room , where she found Julia sitting up and waiting for her . 
As soon as Fanny appeared she began , `` Fan , you are a real good girl . 
asked Fanny . 
As Fanny made no answer , Julia continued , `` I heard , too , all about Frank Cameron . 
`` Will you please , Julia , say no more on that subject , '' said Fanny . 
The next day Mr. William Middleton was informed that Julia would spend the summer in New Orleans , but that Fanny preferred going North . 
His preference , if he had any , was for Fanny . 
She was so quiet , so gentle , he could not help loving her ; but Julia puzzled him . 
In the course of a few days Fanny and Julia returned to school ; the one , elated with the prospect of going to New Orleans , and the other , quietly anticipating a pleasant but rather sad journey to New-York . 
Uncle Joshua was present at the examination , and congratulated himself much because he did not feel at all `` stuck up '' at seeing both Julia and Fanny acquit themselves so creditably . 
Fanny was surprised at her father 's unlooked-for generosity , and thanked him again and again . 
She would have said more , but Fanny quieted her , by saying , `` Do n't talk so about father , Julia . 
Suffice it to say that when Julia retired that night , her own money was safe in her purse , and by the side of it lay the hundred dollars which she had coaxed from Fanny . 
There was no need of this caution , for Fanny was not one to do a generous act , and then boast of it , neither did her father ask her how she had disposed of her money . 
Since Fanny had disclosed the heartless desertion of Dr. Lacey , she seemed to be doubly dear to her father ; for pity now mingled with the intense love he had always borne for his youngest and best loved daughter . 
At length the morning came on which Julia and Fanny were to leave for the first time their native State . 
The one was to bear Fanny on her Northern tour , and the other would convey Julia as far as Louisville on her way South . 
In his estimation the far-off North was a barren , chilly region , and although he did not quite believe his Fanny would be frozen to death , he could not rid himself of the fear that something would befall her . 
The parting between Fanny and her parents was a sad one , and even Julia wept as she kissed her sister , and thought it might be for the last time . 
Now we prefer going North with the other party , which consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Miller , Fanny and Raymond . 
From the car windows Fanny watched the long blue line of hills , which marks the Kentucky shore , until they too disappeared from view . 
For a time now we will leave her to the tender mercies of the Ohio railroad , and a Lake Erie steamer , and hurrying on in advance , we will introduce the reader to the home where once had sported Richard Wilmot and his sister Kate . 
Kate immediately sprang out , and was followed by Mr. Miller and Fanny . 
Fanny , who was accustomed to the savage watch-dogs of Kentucky , sprang back in terror and clung to Mr. Miller for protection ; but Kate cried out , `` Do not fear ; it is only Hector , and he would n't harm you for the world . '' 
Fanny stopped her ears to shut out the bitter cry , but if Kate heard it , she heeded it not , and bounded on over the gravelled walk towards her mother , who was eagerly waiting for her . 
During all this time Fanny was leaning against one of the pillars of the piazza , but her thoughts were far away . 
She was thinking of her distant Kentucky home , and a half feeling of home-sickness crept over her , as she thought how joyfully she would be greeted there , should she ever return . 
Her reverie was of short duration , for Kate approached , and leading her to her mother , simply said , `` Mother , this is Fanny . '' 
The word Fanny had a power to open the fountains of that mother 's heart . 
She had heard the story of the young girl , who had watched so unweariedly by the bedside of Richard -- she had heard too of the generous old man , whose noble heart had cared for and tenderly cherished the stranger , and she knew that she , who advanced towards her so timidly , was the same young girl , the same old man 's daughter ; and could Mr. Middleton have witnessed her reception of his Sunshine , he would have been satisfied . 
When he was presented to Mr. Miller and Fanny , a scene similar to the one we have already described took place . 
As he blessed Fanny for Richard 's sake , she felt that though in a strange land , she was not alone or unloved . 
Not many days after Fanny 's arrival at Mr. Wilmot 's she was told that a gentleman wished to see her in the parlor . 
On entering the room how was she surprised at beholding Frank Cameron . 
He had learned by a letter from Kate that Fanny was in C -- , and he immediately started for his uncle 's . 
Waking or sleeping , she was constantly in his mind , and still with happy thought of her , there ever came a sadder feeling , a fear that his love for her would be in vain . 
But since the morning when he bade her adieu , her name had never once passed his lips . 
When his sister Gertrude questioned him concerning the Kentucky girls , he had described to her in glowing terms the extreme beauty of Julia , and the handsome eyes of `` the widder , '' as he called Mrs. Carrington , but of Fanny he had never spoken . 
He could not bear that even his own sister should mention Fanny in connection with any one else . 
When he met Fanny his manner was so calm and collected , that she never dreamed how deep was the affection she had kindled in his heart . 
Fanny had refused him ; not exultingly , as if a fresh laurel had been won only to be boasted of , but so kindly , so delicately , that Frank felt almost willing to act it all over again for the sake of once more hearing Fanny 's voice , as she told him how utterly impossible it was for her ever again to love as a husband should be loved . 
`` Yes , '' answered Fanny , `` but no other circumstances could have wrung the confession from me . 
Still he felt a pleasure in being near her , in breathing the same atmosphere and gazing on the same scenes . 
Before he returned home he had decided upon accompanying her , together with Mr. and Mrs. Miller , on their contemplated trip to Saratoga ; thence they would go on to New-York city , and visit at his father 's . 
`` I am sorry , '' said he , `` that it is not the season for parties , as I should love dearly to show off Fanny in opposition to our practised city belles , and now I think of it , '' continued he , `` is n't Mr. Stanton coming North this summer after a certain Miss Ashton ? '' 
Stanton has already invited us all to his wedding , and as Miss Ashton will of course repeat the invitation , Fanny will thus have an opportunity of seeing a little of the gay world in New-York . '' 
`` You seem to think any praise bestowed upon Fanny as so much credit for yourself , '' said Kate , mischievously . 
On reaching home he found his mother and sister in a state of great anxiety concerning `` the odious old scarecrow 's corn-cake daughter , '' as Gertrude styled Fanny . 
`` They may as well fret about that as any thing else , '' thought he , `` and when they see Fanny , I shall have a glorious triumph . '' 
So he kept his own secret , and commenced teasing Gertrude about going to Saratoga with himself , their cousin Kate and Fanny . 
After he had quitted the apartment , Mrs. Cameron and Gertrude tried to think of some way to let Fanny know that she was not wanted in their family . 
But as the reader is doubtless anxious to hear of Fanny 's introduction to Mrs. Cameron and Gertrude , we will give a description of it in the next chapter . 
Not long after there came invitations for himself , wife and Fanny , to attend the bridal party , at the residence of Judge Fulton , on the evening of July 25th . 
Frank , who was also invited , had his own reason for not wishing his mother or sister to see Fanny until they met her at Judge Fulton 's . 
If you choose , youcan in your own name invite Fanny , but if she knows any thing she will not come . '' 
Frank knew there was no possible danger of Fanny 's accepting an invitation , which came simply from himself , but he did not say so , and next day he started again for his uncle Wilmot 's . 
Kate readily fell in with them , and when Frank returned to the city he was accompanied by Mr. Miller , Kate and Fanny , who took rooms at the Astor House . 
Fanny they of course did not see , neither did they mention her name . 
Kate expected as much , but nevertheless felt vexed , and when they urged her to spend the remainder of her time with them , she replied , `` I have a young friend from Kentucky with me , and unless you invite her too , I do not feel at liberty to accept your polite invitation . '' 
In answer to this , Gertrude muttered something about `` not wishing to enlarge the circle of her acquaintance , '' while Mrs. Cameron said nothing , and the two ladies soon swept haughtily out of the room . 
Kate and Frank both were anxious that for once Fanny should deviate from her usually simple style of dress , and adopt something more in keeping with her father 's wealth . 
At first Fanny hesitated , but was finally persuaded , and gave Kate permission to select for her any thing she chose . 
And truly , Fanny was beautiful as she stood there arrayed for the party . 
She was dressed in a French robe of white tarletane , embroidered in bouquets of lilies of the valley in silver . 
A single japonica rested among the curls of her bright hair , while her neck was encircled by a necklace of pearls , and costly bracelets of the same clasped her white , slender wrists . 
`` Why , Fanny , '' said Mr. Miller , `` how beautiful you look ! 
At the mention of her father 's name the tear drops glistened for a moment in Fanny 's eye , and she felt how gladly she would have foregone all the expected pleasure of that night for the sake of again seeing her distant father . 
A feeling of sadness was blended with his admiration of Fanny , for constantly in his heart was the knowledge that she never would be his . 
And here Frank showed how truly noble he was , for he could still love and cling to Fanny , although he knew that for him there was no hope . 
He designed to be late , for he well knew his mother and sister would not be early , and he wished to give them the full benefit of Fanny 's introduction into the drawing-room . 
Gladly would Gertrude have escaped her brother 's eye , which instantly sought her out ; but she felt unable to move , and stood watching the animated face and graceful manners of Fanny , who , in being presented to Mrs. Fulton and Stanton , passed near her . 
Every article of Fanny 's dress was noted , and an estimate made as to its probable cost . 
`` She must be wealthy , '' thought she , `` or she could not dress so expensively . '' 
Mrs. Cameron 's first emotion , on beholding Fanny and the flattering attentions she every where received , was one of intense mortification , to think shehad not been first to notice and chaperone her . 
`` I will , however , make all possible amends now , '' thought she , and finding Frank she desired for herself and Gertrude an introduction to Miss Middleton ; but Frank did not feel disposed to grant his mother 's request immediately , and he said , `` Pardon me , mother , but you see Miss Middleton is very much engaged at present with some of her friends , so you must wait awhile . '' 
Mrs. Cameron was too proud to ask any one else to introduce her , and it seemed that she and Gertrude were not likely to make Fanny 's acquaintance at all . 
Mrs. Cameron determined to do her best , and she overwhelmed Fanny with so much flattery , that the poor girl longed for some way of escape , thinking to herself , `` Is it possible that Frank Cameron 's mother is such a silly woman ? '' 
thought Fanny ; at the same time gracefully excusing herself she ran up stairs after her shawl and veil , as Kate had signified her intention of returning home . 
She started in pursuit , and reaching the bonnet room as soon as Fanny , insisted that she and Kate should stop with her during the remainder of her stay in the city . 
As Frank soon appeared and joined his entreaties with those of his mother , Fanny said she would do just as Mrs. Miller thought proper . 
It was strange how soon Mrs. Cameron and Gertrude discovered how many fine qualities Fanny possessed . 
This was in the morning , and that evening when Frank entered the sitting-room where his mother and sister were , they beset him to know why he had denied his engagement with Fanny . 
`` Once you cried because you thought I wasengaged to Fanny , and now you cry because I am not . '' 
On the first day of their arrival , Fanny noticed seated opposite her at the dinner table , a dark-eyed , sprightly looking girl , whose eyes so constantly met hers , that at last both blushed and the stranger girl half smiled . 
By her side sat a gentleman , who Fanny concluded was the young lady 's brother . 
Something in their appearance interested Fanny , and she could not help thinking that they were from the South . 
That evening as she was walking alone upon the piazza , she was suddenly joined by the unknown lady , who accosted her with , `` Pardon me , ma'am , but am I not speaking to Miss Middleton from Kentucky ? '' 
Fanny was too much surprised to answer immediately , but soon recovering her self-possession , she answered , `` You are , but I have not the pleasure of knowing you . '' 
asked Fanny . 
exclaimed Fanny . 
Fanny had never heard of Lida Gibson , but it was sufficient that she knew her uncle and Julia , so her hand was immediately offered , and the remainder of the evening the two young girls promenaded the piazza arm in arm , talking of their distant homes and absent friends . 
asked Fanny . 
said Fanny in some surprise . 
said Lida , laughing merrily at Fanny 's manner . 
As days passed on Lida too heard of the supposed engagement between Fanny and Frank Cameron , and for once kept silent upon the subject , at least in Fanny 's presence . 
Poor Fanny ! 
Could Lida have heard a conversation , which , one evening , took place between Mrs. Cameron and Fanny , different , very different would have been the report which she carried back . 
One evening as Fanny , Lida and Gertrude were walking upon the piazza , a servant came , saying that Mrs. Cameron desired to see Miss Middleton in her room . 
Fanny immediately obeyed the summons , and as soon as she had gone , Lida laughingly congratulated Gertrude upon the prospect of having so pleasant a sister . 
Gertrude smilingly received Miss Gibson 's congratulations , `` for , '' thought she , `` even if Fanny does not marry Frank , Miss Gibson will probably never know it , as she is to leave in a few days . '' 
Let us now with Fanny repair to Mrs. Cameron 's room , but not like her wondering whyshe was sent for . 
We well know why , and consequently are prepared for the look of mingled indignation and astonishment , which appeared on Fanny 's face when she learned that Mrs. Cameron was pleading the cause of her son ! 
Fanny answered , `` Madam , I have always entertained the highest respect for your son , but I must confess it is lessened if it is with his knowledge you are thus speaking to me . '' 
Then followed a long eloquent speech , in which Mrs. Cameron by turns tried to coax , flatter , importune , or frighten Fanny into a compliance with her wishes , but Fanny could only repeat her first answer . 
`` I can not answer these questions , '' said Fanny . 
Then rising , she added , `` I suppose our conference is now ended , and with your leave I will retire . '' 
Mrs. Cameron nodded her head in assent and Fanny immediately left the room . 
A few days after this , Lida Gibson started for the south , promising Fanny that she would see Julia as soon as possible after her return home . 
Soon after their return , Mrs. Cameron said , in speaking of Fanny , `` that 't was quite doubtful whether Frank would marry her or not . 
Then turning to Fanny she said , `` And you , too , my other daughter , you have my love and earnest prayers for your happiness . '' 
Mr. Wilmot could not speak , but his feelings were not less deep , as he embraced his child and shook the hands of Mr. Miller and Fanny . 
Old Hector , too , shared in the general sorrow , but for some undefinable reason he seemed to cling more closely to Fanny . 
said Fanny , `` and do you indeed love me so well ? '' 
then kneeling down by him , she drew from her neck a tiny locket , in which was a daguerreotype of herself . 
To this she attached a blue ribbon , which she fastened around Hector 's neck , saying , `` I can not stay with you , Hector , but you shall have my likeness . '' 
Mr. Miller was not willing that Fanny should leave New-York without having first visited Niagara . 
Accordingly , they stopped at the Falls , and were there joined by Mr. and Mrs. Stanton and Frank , the latter of whom was desirous of seeing Fanny as long as possible . 
repeated Fanny . 
From that time Aunt Katy looked upon Fanny as one not long for this world ! 
`` Tai n't in natur , '' said she , `` that she should stay long . 
It was indeed marvellous how much Fanny had seen , and when she came to tell the wonder-stricken negroes of the cataract of Niagara , their amazement knew no bounds . 
At the same time he whispered to Lucy , that `` He 's mistaken if Miss Fanny wa n't tellin ' 'em a stretcher this time , '' for which declaration , Lucy rewarded him with a smart box on the ear , saying , `` Is you no better manners than to ` cuse white folks of lyin ' ? 
Miss Fanny never 'd got as well as she is , if she 'd picked up a mess of lies to tell us . '' 
Fanny 's health was indeed much improved , and for a day or two after her return home , she bounded about the house and grounds as lightly and merrily as she had done in childhood . 
The third day after her return she was sitting with her parents , relating to them an account of her journey , when Ike entered the room . 
He had been sent to the post-office , and now came up to Fanny , saying , `` ere , I done got this , air , '' at the same time handing her a letter , which she instantly saw was from her sister . 
The first page was filled with assurances of love ; the second congratulated Fanny upon her engagement with Frank , but chided her for suffering Lida Gibson to be the bearer of the news . 
said she ; -- `` that is the way I shall do , and now to prove my words , you will see how confiding I am . '' 
You will not wonder at it , '' she wrote , `` for you know how much I have always loved him . 
The letter ended by saying that Dr. Lacey would accompany her home some time during the latter part of October , when their marriage would probably take place . 
This , then , was the letter , which affected Fanny so , and called all of Uncle Joshua 's biggest oaths into use . 
While Mr. Middleton was thus expending his fury , Fanny was alone in her room , struggling hard to subdue the bitter feelings which were rising in her heart . 
Until now she had not been aware how much she loved Dr. Lacey . 
True , she had said it was impossible she could ever marry him ; and she had believed she was trying to forget him ; but ever in her heart she had , perhaps unconsciously , cherished a half-formed belief that all would yet be well , and when she refused the noble , generous heart , which Frank Cameron laid at her feet , it was with a vague hope that Dr. Lacey would yet be hers . 
`` There is nothing left for me , '' said Fanny , `` but woe , woe ! '' 
Fanny listened to the Spirit 's pleadings and resolved that henceforth she would seek to place her affections , where `` there is no variableness , neither shadow of turning . '' 
Fanny accompanied him and remained several days . 
The morning after her arrival she and Mr. Stanton were walking upon the upper balcony at Mrs. Crane 's , when they were joined by Ashton , who had returned from New Orleans a few days before . 
Fanny , however , soon explained all , and Stanton gladly received Ashton as a newly found brother . 
It is unnecessary for us to repeat what Nellie and her brother had to relate concerning themselves since the night when Ashton so unceremoniously took leave of his home . 
She was ignorant of Julia 's conduct concerning Fanny , consequently she said nothing upon that head , but she spoke of her generally deceitful character , and mentioned several instances , in which she had not hesitated to stoop to the basest falsehood for the accomplishment of her purpose . 
As she was folding the letter , it occurred to her that by some accident Julia might possibly get hold of it , `` and then , '' thought she , `` she will recognize my handwriting , and curiosity will impel her to open the letter , after which she would n't hesitate a moment to destroy it . '' 
There was a softness , -- a gentleness , in her manner , which seemed to Dr. Lacey like Fanny , and then her voice , too , was so like her sister 's , that ere long she ceased to be disagreeable to him , and instead of avoiding her society , as at first he had done , he now sought it . 
To all eyes but her own she seemed not likely to succeed , for though Dr. Lacey admired her , and possibly treated her with more attention than he did either Mabel or Florence , yet his heart still turned to Fanny , and for hours he would sit , talking to Julia of her sister , while she schooled herself to answer all his questions without one sign of impatience . 
Occasionally she would speak to Dr. Lacey of his cousin , young Stanton , and would tell how much pleasure Fanny seemed to take in hissociety . 
Then Julia pulled another string and expatiated so largely upon Frank Cameron 's sayings and doings , that Dr. Lacey became really uneasy , for recently he had thought seriously of again writing to Fanny , and now he determined to do so . 
Fanny herself could not have been more gentle and agreeable , than was Julia , as , together with Dr. Lacey , she traversed the broad walks of the garden . 
The face of her who awaited Dr. Lacey 's answer was very beautiful , while tears moistened the long eyelashes , which veiled the large , bright eyes , and the tones of her voice , now more like Fanny 's than ever , thrilled his every nerve . 
I do not love her ; and yet , next to Fanny , she is more agreeable to me than any one else . '' 
Memories of other days came thronging about him , and he then resolved again to write , and beseech Fanny at least to grant him her second love , even if her first , best affections had been given to another . 
It must have been some evil spirit , which prompted the reply , `` Then I will marry Julia , as being next and nearest to Fanny . '' 
But she , who was upon his track , was more wily , more crafty , than any thing he had ever imagined . 
This time , however , her interference was not necessary , for early next morning , a carriage drew up in front of the Indian Nest . 
She was full of talk , and within an hour after her arrival , the story of Fanny 's engagement with Frank Cameron had been repeated in Dr. Lacey 's hearing , at least three times . 
`` I fancy , '' answered Florence , `` that he still loves Fanny , and now that she is engaged , he is staying alone until he gets his rebellious heart tied up . '' 
While Dr. Lacey was securely bolted in his room , nerving himself to bear this fresh disappointment , and striving to drive each thought of Fanny from him , Julia too was alone , and busily engaged . 
To Mr. Middleton 's inquiries concerning the reason of his seclusion , he replied , `` that he was busy with important matters ; '' but his abstracted manner led Mr. Middleton to believe what he had long suspected , viz. , that Dr. Lacey 's heart was wholly centered upon Fanny , and that the news of her coming marriage was the cause of his unhappiness . 
`` I have accidentally found a part of an old journal , which she kept while Mr. Wilmot was living . '' 
Julia seemed at first reluctant , but finally replied , `` Perhaps it will be as well to let you do so , for you may then judge more kindly of Fanny ; '' and she placed in his hands the soiled sheets of paper , which we saw in her room . 
As we have as much right to read Fanny 's journal as Dr. Lacey , we will here give a few brief extracts : -- April -- `` Cease your wild beatings , my heart . 
This journal was interspersed here and there with tears , and was so exact an imitation of Fanny 's writing that Dr. Lacey was completely duped . 
You 'll hate Fanny and despise me . '' 
I could not help her writing it . '' 
No emotion either of love or anger did he feel towards Fanny . 
Once I hoped you would marry Fanny , but since Frank Cameron has rendered that impossible , you can not do better than take Julia . 
In due course of time there came from Kentucky a letter of congratulation from Fanny ; but she was so unaccustomed to say or write what she did not feel , that the letter , so far as congratulations were concerned , was a total failure . 
Julia leaped gayly from the carriage , and running into the house , embraced her mother , and received the blacks as affectionately as Fanny herself could have done ; then missing her sister , she asked , `` Where is Fan , why does she not come to meet me ? '' 
`` Fanny sick , '' said Julia . 
But in going to Fanny , it was necessary to pass the parlor , and Julia could not resist the temptation to look in and see , `` if the old man had fixed up any . '' 
Yes , Fanny 's love had wrought this change . 
`` Then , father , '' said Fanny , `` do it for my sake . 
A well-filled purse was placed in Fanny 's hands , with liberty to do as she pleased . 
Fanny took her bed , and her father , instantly alarmed , called the nearest physician . 
Dr. Gordon readily saw that Fanny 's diseases was in her mind , and in reply to Mrs. Middleton 's inquiries he frankly told his opinion , and said that unless the cause of her melancholy could be removed the consequence might be fatal . 
`` Do n't tell my husband , '' said Mrs. Middleton , `` his life is bound up in Fanny , and the day that sees her dead will , I fear , also make me a widow . '' 
Accordingly , Mr. Middleton was deceived into a belief that Fanny 's illness was the result of over exertion , and that she would soon recover . 
In a day or two she seemed better , but was not able to come down stairs . 
Indeed she had no desire or intention of doing so until after the wedding , for she felt she could not , would not , see Dr. Lacey for the world . 
Since the receipt of her sister 's letter , she had been given a holier love , a firmer faith , than aught on earth can bestow , and she was now under the influence of religion ; of lasting , true religion . 
This then was the reason why she welcomed her sister so affectionately , and felt no emotion either of resentment or anger towards those who were thus trampling upon the bleeding fibres of her heart . 
As Julia kissed the almost transparent brow of her sister , and clasped her thin , white fingers , tears gathered in her eyes , and she thought , `` This ruin have Iwrought , and for it I must answer ; '' but not long did she ever suffer her conscience to trouble her , and the next hour she was chatting away to Fanny about the preparations for her wedding , which was to take place one week from that day . 
Fanny listened as one who heard not . 
She was praying for more grace , more strength to endure yet a little longer . 
Slowly to Julia dragged the days of that week , while to Fanny they sped on rapid wing . 
Mrs. Middleton scolded the blacks , and Uncle Joshua scolded Mrs. Middleton , at the same time walking mechanically from the kitchen to the parlor , from the parlor to Fanny 's sick-room , and from Fanny 's sick-room back to the kitchen , occasionally kicking from his path some luckless kitten , dog , or black baby , which latter set up most lusty yells , just to vary the scene . 
In the midst of all this Fanny lay calmly and quietly on her low bed , counting each succeeding sun as it rose and set , bringing nearer and nearer a day she so much dreaded . 
Fanny was asleep when she entered the room to see her , but on the white , wasted face , Kate 's tears fell as she said , `` Poor Fanny ! 
Long after midnight a lone watcher sat by the window in Fanny 's room , gazing at the stars , which looked down so quietly from their distant homes , and praying , not for herself , but for Dr. Lacey , that he might be happy with her he had chosen . 
About five o'clock there was a noise in the yard , and Kate , who was in Fanny 's room , arranging her young friend 's hair , looked from the window and said , `` It is Dr. Lacey . 
Quickly Fanny hurried to the window . 
He had not been there long ere he asked for Fanny , On being told she was sick , he seemed rather disturbed . 
Possibly , however , he felt relieved to know she would not be present when he took upon him vows , which should have been breathed to her . 
Alone in her chamber sat Fanny , listening to the sounds of mirth , which grated harshly on her ear . 
And now louder roared the howling wind , and brighter the glaring lightning flashed , while fiercer grew the conflict in Fanny 's bosom . 
The struggle was over , and the blessing which Fanny gave her sister , was sincere , but when Julia asked forgiveness for all the evil she had ever done , the reply was prevented by a crash of thunder , so terrific , that Julia trembled with terror , and hastily left the room . 
Fanny knew it was Dr. Lacey , for he soon returned with Julia , and as they passed her door , she heard the merry laugh of Florence , who was bridesmaid . 
Do it for the sake of Fanny . '' 
His obtuse intellect had gathered that in some way Fanny was in danger , and away he flew over bushes , briers , rocks and ditches . 
Where , during this exciting scene , was Fanny ? 
The direful sounds had reached her ear , and now at the head of the stairs , she listened to the Babel , which reigned in the parlor . 
High above all other voices , she distinguished her father 's , who , in his uncontrollable fury , was calling into use all the oaths he had ever heard of , besides manufacturing some expressly for the occasion ! 
Fanny hesitated no longer , but quickly descending the stairs , she forced her way through the blacks into the parlor , where she stood appalled at the scene before her . 
It was caused by the appearance of Fanny , who , with her loose white muslin wrapper , and long curls , which floated over her shoulders , seemed like some being from another world , come to stay that storm of passion . 
The scene was too much for Fanny , and she too would have fainted , had not Dr. Lacey caught her in his arms . 
Clasping her slight form passionately to his bosom , he exclaimed , `` My own , -- my Fanny , -- my wife , for such you are , such you shall be ! '' 
Dr. Lacey glanced once at the corpse-like face over which the heavy braids of long , black hair had fallen , then with a shudder he again strained Fanny to his heart , saying , `` Thank God , thank God , I escaped her in time ! '' 
But a new thought entering his mind , he released Fanny , and said , `` Pardon me , dear Fanny ; sorrow has well-nigh bereft me of my senses . 
She never was engaged to him ; never loved him , or any other mortal man , save yourself . '' 
Here Fanny , who , it will be remembered , was all this time ignorant of the truth , asked if some one would not explain what she saw and heard . 
`` I will , '' said Dr. Lacey , `` it is my duty to do so ; '' and he led her to the window , where he hurriedly told her all , -- every thing which he himself knew , intermingling his words with so many passionate embraces that his sanity was much to be doubted . 
Dr. Lacey arose , and winding his arm about Fanny , as if afraid he should lose sight of her , moved towards the room where Julia lay . 
They had borne her to the bridal chamber which Fanny had arranged with so much care , and as Dr. Lacey appeared at the door , Uncle Joshua met him and said , `` I know she sarved you mean , but I would not have her die . 
All that Dr. Lacey could do , he did , but when Dr. Gordon arrived , he gladly gave up his charge to him , and turned his attention towards Fanny , who , overcome with what she had seen and heard , had fainted , and been carried to her own room , where she was surrounded by Mrs. Carrington , Florence and Mabel . 
This he soon did , for it would seem that his very voice had a power to recall Fanny 's suspended faculties . 
Slowly her eyes unclosed ; then , as if wearied out , she again closed them , and for a time , slept sweetly , calmly , on Dr. Lacey 's bosom . 
Uncle Joshua , thus relieved from alarm concerning her , walked back and forth from her room to Fanny 's , swearing that , `` He knew the devil was let loose that night for his special benefit , and that he had come there to see how much of a row he could get up ! '' 
`` He succeeded admirably , I think , '' said Florence , who , having recovered from her first fright , was now ready to extract whatever funcould be gathered from surrounding circumstances . 
Mr. Middleton accompanied him to the field , while Dr. Lacey returned to the house in quest of Fanny . 
The change of affairs had also wrought a change in Fanny , who seemed and really was better than she had been for many days . 
With unwearying devotion she hung over the pillow of her sister , who seemed more quiet when she knew Fanny was near . 
Once she looked wistfully in her face , and appeared as if anxious to speak , but Fanny gently laid her hand on her lips , saying , `` No , no , Julia , you must not . '' 
She did , however , and the word `` forgive '' met Fanny 's ear . 
Had Fanny been less of a Christian , forgiveness might have been hard , but now she answered sincerely , truthfully , `` As I hope for pardon in heaven , so do I forgive you for the great wrong you have done me . '' 
Earnestly then did Fanny speak of a Saviour 's love , which receives all , pardons all , who come to him . 
Julia shook her head despairingly , and as the conversation seemed to annoy her , Fanny ceased talking , while a voice behind her said , `` Teach me , too , the way of life , for I fear I have never walked in it . '' 
It was Dr. Lacey , who , unobserved by either of the girls , had entered and been a listener to what Fanny said . 
As Julia heard the sound of his voice , she turned towards him a look so imploring , so full of contrition and entreaty , that he was moved , and approaching the bedside , took the vacant seat near Fanny . 
A low sob was Julia 's only answer as Dr. Lacey arose to leave , announcing to Fanny his intention of visiting Joseph Dunn , who was said to be dying . 
Incessantly she talked of Dr. Lacey , Fanny , and Mr. Wilmot , the latter of whom , in her disordered imagination , was constantly pursuing her . 
Then turning to Fanny she would say , `` I broke your heart too , and still pressed on when I saw it was killing you , but you forgave me , and now you must plead with him , who loves the air you breathe , to think compassionately of me . 
Sometimes she would speak of her father , saying , `` He will be glad when the tempestis still and ceases to trouble him , for he never loved me , never spoke to me as he did to Fanny . 
`` God knows she speaks the truth , '' said Uncle Joshua , wiping away the tears he was not ashamed to weep . 
`` I have been mighty hard on her , but I never s ` posed she cared . '' 
`` Will she live ? '' 
`` With proper care , I think she may , '' was the answer ; and then Dr. Lacey again urged the request he had once before made of Mr. Middleton . 
Nothin ' ` ill come betwixt you again , I reckon , and I would n't have you marry her while t ` other one is so low . '' 
So Dr. Lacey was obliged to wait , but though he would much rather have remained near Fanny he deemed it expedient to change his abode and remove to Mrs. Crane 's . 
It required all the good-breeding he was master of to answer politely , when after returning from a visit to Mr. Middleton 's , she would jeeringly ask him concerning `` his bride ` shealth ! '' 
It was now six weeks since the evening of the denouement , and Julia 's health was so much improved that Dr. Lacey began to speak confidently of the day when Fanny would be his own . 
He deigned her no reply , but mounting his horse took the road to Mr. Middleton 's , where he was welcomed with tears by Mrs. Middleton and Fanny , whose fears he strove to allay . 
Dr. Lacey , who chanced to be present , said , `` For your sake , sir , and for Fanny 's , I will go . '' 
`` She do n't desarve it from you , but if you only will ! '' 
Owing to the state which the body was in , Dr. Lacey thought proper to procure a coffin before removing her home ; consequently it was nearly ten o'clock the following morning ere the little procession slowly entered the yard , from which , with wonderful forethought , Mr. Middleton had ordered to be removed some half dozen carts , corn cribs , & c. Fanny was pressing forward to look at her unfortunate sister , when Dr. Lacey , gently but firmly led her away , saying , `` No , Fanny , you must not see her . 
Then as her tears fell fast , he strove in various ways to divert her mind from Julia 's untimely end . 
On this spot Fanny had expended much time and labor . 
In one corner was a tall forest maple , where Julia and Fanny often had played , and where Fanny once , when dangerously ill in childhood , had asked to be laid . 
All thoughts of Fanny 's marriage for the present were of course given up , although Mr. Middleton promised that when the autumn came round again , he would surely give his treasure to the care of another . 
Two weeks after Julia 's burial , all of which time was passed at Mr. Middleton 's , Dr. Lacey went back to New Orleans , having first placed in Mr. Middleton 's care a sum of money for the benefit of Mrs. Dunn , promising Fanny that with the spring he would come again . 
He bade her adien , praying that nothing might come between them again . 
Heavily now dragged the days at Mr. Middleton 's , until Uncle Joshua hit upon a plan which would not only give pleasure to Fanny , but would also relieve the tedium of his own life . 
It was nothing more nor less than the erection of a new house on a grassy lawn , which Fanny had frequently pointed out as being a good location . 
At the breakfast table he first announced his intention , causing Fanny in her surprise and joy not only to drop her knife , but also to upset her coffee . 
Here we may as well relate a little circumstance which occurred to Fanny during the winter . 
Tiger , who had accompanied Fanny , eyed Bill 's movements uneasily . 
He was , however , unnoticed by the young man , who had got his mouth open , and at last found courage to say , `` I always liked you , Fanny , 'cause you never laughed at me , nor called me a fool , and now if you 'll have me , you may carry my watch , and I 'll work for your father two seasons in the hemp field . '' 
Involuntarily Fanny laughed , but Bill construed it into approval , and was about to sit down by her , when Tiger , with an angry growl , sprang forward and precipitated the wooing swam over the log into the dirt . 
Fanny called off the dog , and Bill gathered himself up , carefully brushing the dirt from his Sunday suit . 
Fearing he would repeat his offer , Fanny said , `` I appreciate your kindness , Billy , but you see Tiger does n't seem to approve your proposal , and as I have great confidence in his judgment , I think I , too , must follow his example , and though I sha n't knock you down , I shall have to tell you , ` No . '' ' 
She might as well have knocked him down , for he instantly sat down , and covering his face with his hands , burst into such a fit of crying , that Fanny , half laughing at , and half pitying him , said , `` Poor Billy , I am sorry for you , and though I can not marry you , I will like you just as well as you fancy I always have . '' 
Looking round , Fanny saw her father , who had been a silent spectator of the scene , and now came forward laughing heartily at his would-be son-in-law . 
Afterwards , when Mr. Middleton wished to entertain his visitors with any thing `` extra , '' he would rehearse to them , with some exaggerations , Bill Jeffrey 's proposal to Fanny . 
He omitted to tell of the whipping which Ike had given him , but spoke with unqualified contempt of the old house and every thing belonging to it , except Miss Fanny , who , he said , `` Looked just like an angel , only a heap better . '' 
Here Leffie , anxious to change the conversation , asked , `` What of Miss Fanny ? '' 
But the niggers said , ` It 's Miss Fanny , ' and next I heard , 't was all as still in the room , and marster was huggin ' and kissin ' her and cryin ' over her . 
Each night from the upper balcony of her father 's handsome dwelling Fanny watched in vain for the coming of Dr. Lacey , whose promised return had been long delayed by the dangerous illness of his father . 
Death was abroad in the land , and as each day exaggerated rumors of the havoc made by cholera in the sultry climate of Louisiana reached Fanny , fearful misgivings filled her mind , lest Dr. Lacey , too , should fall a victim to the plague . 
But this Fanny would not suffer , and persisted in saying that she was well , until at last she lay all day upon the sofa , and Aunt Katy , when her favorite herb teas failed of effecting their wonted cure , shook her head , saying , `` I knew ` twould be so . 
To Fanny the thought of death was familiar . 
At first Mr. Middleton listened in silence to Fanny 's gentle words of entreaty , but when she spoke to him of her own death and the love which alone could sustain him then , he clasped her tightly to his heart , as if his arm alone could keep her there for ever , saying , `` Oh , no , you must not tell me that ; you will not die . 
And the anxious father did try to deceive himself into the belief that Fanny was better , but when each morning 's light revealed some fresh ravage the disease had made ; -- when the flush on her cheek grew deeper , and the light of her eye wilder and more startling , an agonizing fear held the old man 's heart in thrall . 
Not such tears as he wept when Richard Wilmot died , nor such as fell upon the grave of his first-born , for oh , his grief then was naught , compared with what he now felt for his Sunshine , his idol , his precious Fanny . 
Earnestly did Fanny pray that her father might be enabled better to bear his affliction . 
But he turned a deaf ear alike to her and his gentle , enduring wife , who , bowed with sorrow , yet sought to soothe her grief-stricken husband . 
I ca n't be pious , if they take Fanny away . 
'T was to bring me to my senses , and show me how bad I used her ; but Fanny , my Sunshine , what hasJosh done that she should leave him too . 
As the one who came last was about to enter her room , Mr. Middleton detained him , while he said , `` Save her , Doctor , save her , and you shall have all I 'm worth . '' 
Terrible was the anguish of Uncle Joshua , when he became convinced that he mustlose her . 
Nothing could induce him to leave her room ; and as if endowed with superhuman strength , he watched by her constantly , only leaving her once each day to visit the quiet grave , the bed of his other daughter , where now the long , green grass was waving , and the summer flowers were blooming , flowers which Fanny 's hand had planted and the father 's tears had watered . 
For several hours Fanny had turned uneasily upon her pillow , but she at last fell into a deep sleep . 
For a time her father sat quietly listening to the sound of her breathing , then arising he softly drew aside the curtains , and looked long and anxiously at her as she slept . 
Suddenly lifting his hands he exclaimed , `` Oh , God , save her , or help me to bear it if she dies . '' 
`` Oh , do n't let Fanny die , do n't let her die , for who will comfort old Joshua when she is gone . '' 
`` The Saviour ; he , who once wept at the grave of Lazarus , will be more to you , than Iever was , or ever can be , '' said Fanny . 
In her sleep she dreamed that her father prayed . 
She awoke and found it true . 
`` Come nearer to me , father , '' said she . 
He did so , and then among his thick gray locks she laid her thin white hand and prayed . 
It was a beautiful sight , and methinks the angels hovered round as that young disciple , apparently so near the portals of Heaven , sought to lead her weeping father to the same glad world . 
Her words were soothing , and o'er his darkened mind a ray of light seemed feebly , faintly shining . 
Many a time during the succeeding days he prayed in secret , not that Fanny might be spared , but that he might be reconciled to God . 
For his Sunshine he still wept , but with a chastened grief , for now he knew that if she died , he should see her in Heaven . 
At his father 's bedside , where for many days his place had been , he had received from Mr. William Middleton a letter announcing Fanny 's illness , which , however , was not then considered dangerous . 
On learning the contents of the letter , the elder Mr. Lacey said , turning to his son , `` Go , George , go ; I would not keep you from her a moment . '' 
Fast the days rolled on , and they who watched Fanny , alternately hoped and feared , as she one day seemed better and the next worse . 
We hasten to a night three weeks from the commencement of her illness , when gathered in her room were anxious friends , who feared the next day 's sun would see her dead . 
Business , either real or fancied , had again taken him to Kentucky , and hearing of Fanny 's illness he had hastened to her . 
She had requested to be raised up , and now , leaning against her Uncle William , she lay in a deep slumber . 
Florence stood by him , and tried by gently smoothing his tangled hair , to express the sympathy she could not speak . 
In Frankfort he had heard that Fanny could not live , and now he eagerly asked , `` Tell me , Mrs. Miller , is she yet alive ? '' 
You 're losing a great deal , but not as much as I , for you can find another Fanny , but for me thar 's no more Sunshine , when they carry her away . '' 
Dr. Lacey complied with this request as far as it was possible , though never seemed a night so long , and never dawned a morning so bright as did the succeeding one , when through the house the joyful tidings ran , that the crisis was past , and Fanny would live . 
In the course of the morning , Fanny asked Kate , who alone was attending her , if Dr. Lacey were not there ? 
`` Because , '' answered Fanny , `` I either heard him , or dreamed that I did . '' 
Intuitively Kate left the room , consequently we have no means of knowing what occurred during that interview , when Dr. Lacey as it were received back from the arms of death his Fanny , whose recovery from that time was sure though slow . 
What it was that he remembered , and would do , was not known for several days , and then he informed his wife , that when at first he feared lest Fanny should not live , he had racked his brain to know why this fresh evil was brought upon him , and had concluded that it was partly to punish him for his ill-treatment of Julia when living , and partly because that now she was dead he had neglected to purchase for her any grave-stones ; and I promised , said he , `` that if she was spar 'd , I 'd buy as nice a grave-stun as I would if 't was Sunshine . '' 
One after another those who had been with Fanny during her illness departed to their homes . 
He had loved Fanny long and faithfully , but he knew the time was coming when ne would see her the wife of another . 
What wonder was it then , if he suffered his eye occasionally to rest admiringly upon Florence Woodburn 's happy face , or that he frequently found himself trying to trace some resemblance between the dark hazelof Florence 's eyes and the deep blueof Fanny 's ! 
Here for a time we leave her , and return to Mr. Middleton 's , where Fanny was improving each day . 
Dr. Lacey watched her recovery anxiously , fearing continually lest some new calamity should happen to take his treasure from him . 
Owing to the protracted illness of his father it became necessary that he should go back to New Orleans ; but as soon as possible he would return , and then , -- Fanny could have told you what then , and so too could we , but we prefer keeping you in suspense . 
Had you asked the cause of the crying , you would have been told that Miss Fanny was to be married Christmas Eve , and the week following she would leave them , and start for New Orleans . 
Bob was naturally of an inquiring mind , and for many days back he had been troubled to know exactly what relationshipwould exist between Dr. Lacey and himself when the former should be Fanny 's husband . 
`` Why , Bob , '' said she , `` ` tai n't no ways likely you ` llbe connection at all , for he wo n't have such a limb in his family , but Iam Fanny 's aunt , and that 'll make Dr. Lacey my niece . '' 
Whether it were owing to Providence , or to an invitation , which went from Florence to New-York , we are unable to say , but two days before the 24th , Uncle Joshua surprised Florence and Fanny by opening the door of the room where they were sitting , and saying , `` Ho , my boy , here they be ; -- come on . '' 
`` Well then , '' returned Florence , `` if you came to see me , do look at me , and not keep your eyes fixed so continually on Fanny . 
At a late hour that night Florence moved with soft footsteps about her sleeping room , fearing lest she should awaken Fanny . 
Her precautious were useless , for Fanny was awake ; looking at Florence , she said , `` Oh , Flory , you naughty girl , what makes you blush so dreadfully ? '' 
The next half hour was spent by Florence in telling Fanny what Frank had just asked her in four or five words , and which she had answered in one , viz . 
But the answer was correct enough , for the young girls , who that night assembled at Fanny 's bridal , were beautiful enough to make even Mr. William Middleton talk of trying Twiggs ' preparationon his slightly whitened locks ! 
'T was where Florence and Fanny were dressing . 
Once Florence stopped in the midst of her toilet , and throwing her arms about Fanny , said , `` Oh , I am so glad you are the bride , for I would not live that other dreadful night over again for any thing . 
Just before Fanny was ready , a servant entered , bringing to her a singularly-looking bouquet . 
It was the gift of Bill Jeffrey , who had brought it himself with the request that Fanny would accept it , as he had nothing else to give . 
Some one had suggested to him that budswere preferable , but he resented the advice as an insult , saying , `` he reckoned he knew better than to offer Miss Fanny stingy little rose buds . '' 
Fanny accepted the bouquet , and ordered it to be placed with the remainder of her bridal presents . 
Then learning that Billy was still waiting , she sent an invitation that he should stay and witness the ceremony . 
At length the noise up stairs subsided , and was transferred to the parlors below , but even there it ceased , as through the door came Dr. Lacey and Fanny , followed by Frank Cameron and Florence . 
The ceremony was not interrupted by the thunder 's roar , nor the company blinded by the lightning 's flash , but throughout the rooms was a solemn hush , as Fanny was made Dr. Lacey 's wife . 
Firmly Dr. Lacey held her hand until the last word was spoken ; then when he felt sure that she was his , he stooped down and whispered in her ear , `` Thank God , you are mine at last . '' 
Here he entirely broke down , and drawing Fanny to him , sobbed out , `` Oh , what shall I do without you ? 
He , however , forgot his troubles by morning and said , `` he allus did like to go to Miss Fanny 's wedding , 'cause he had sich tall things to eat . '' 
Fanny had been the playmate of his childhood , and the affection conceived for her then had increased as he grew older . 
Now she was leaving him , and the poor black boy cried as he thought how lonesome the old place would be without her . 
Her parents thought so too , but they tried to appear composed , for they would not add unnecessary grief to their daughter 's parting . 
When all was ready , Uncle Joshua kneeled down , and winding his arm about Fanny , prayed in simple , touching language that God would protect his Sunshine , and at last bring them all to the same home . 
Long and wearisome at Mr. Middleton 's were the days succeeding Fanny 's departure , while in Dr. Lacey 's home all was joy and gladness , as Aunt Dilsey `` put her best foot forward to get ready for the new Miss. '' Tarts , or `` little pies '' as she called them , were her special favorites , and now Aunt Dilsey was not a little puzzled to know which kind would suit Fanny best . 
`` Wish I knew , '' said she , `` which she likes most , grape sass ones , or blackbry ones . '' 
`` You make a heap of both kinds , and mebby I can manage to worry down a little of what she do n't eat . '' 
He was continually in the kitchen , playing off some prank on Aunt Dilsey , who declared , `` She hoped marster would come pretty soon and tend to him , or she should n't have a spoonfull of sense left . '' 
Happy as a bird , Fanny sprang up the steps . 
Every thing about her seemed homelike and cheerful . 
Dusky , but kind faces peered at her from every corner , while Aunt Dilsey , with a complacent smile , stood ready to receive her . 
Fanny was prepared to like every thing , but there was something peculiarly pleasing to her in Dilsey 's broad , good-humored face . 
Going up to her , she took both her hands , and said , `` I know we shall be good friends . 
Rondeau , Leffie , and the other blacks belonging to the establishment now came forward , and in the crowd little Jack 's bow was entirely unappreciated ; but Fanny next day made amends by giving him nearly a pound of candy , which had the effect of making him sick a week , but he got well in time to be present at Leffie 's wedding , which took place just a week after Dr. Lacey 's return . 
Leffie , who chanced to be just the size of her young mistress , was thrown into ecstasies by the gift of a thin pink and white silk , which Fanny presented to her for a bridal dress . 
I will be Fanny , because I 've got curly hair . 
In the letter Nellie said that Mrs. Middleton , whose health had long been failing , was not expected to live ; that Dr. Lacey and Fanny had come from New Orleans and were now with her ; that Mr. William Middleton and Ashton had gone to England , ostensibly to attend the World 's Fair , but in reality on a wild goose chase after a little Spaniard ! 
The night succeeding the burial , Mr. Middleton 's family , overcome with fatigue and grief , retired early to their rooms , but Fanny could not sleep , and between ten and eleven she arose and throwing on her dressing-gown nervously walked up and down her sleeping-room . 
Through the closed shutters the rays of a bright September moon were stealing , and attracted by the beauty of the night , Fanny opened the blinds and the room was filled with a flood of soft , pale light . 
From the window where she stood she could distinguish the little grave-yard , with its cypress and willow trees , and its white monument gleaming through the silvery moonlight , and near that monument was a darker spot , the grave of her beloved mother . 
`` If all nights were as lovely as this , '' thought she , `` it would not seem half so dreary to sleep in the cold dark grave , '' and then Fanny fell into a fit of musing of the night that would surely come when she would first be left alone in the shadowy grave-yard . 
In the midst of her reverie her attention was attracted by a slight female figure , which from some quarter had approached unperceived , and now upon the newly made grave was bowing itself and apparently weeping . 
The size and form of the girl were so much like Luce , that Fanny concluded it must be she , at the same time wondering how , with her superstitious ideas , she dared venture alone near a grave in the night-time . 
In a moment , however , she saw that Tiger , the watch-dog , was with her , and the same instant the sound of a suppressed sob fell on her ear . 
`` Poor Luce , '' said she , `` I did not think she loved my mother so well . 
In a short time Fanny was in the open air , and on her way to the grave-yard . 
As she approached her mother 's grave , she said , gently , `` Luce , Luce , why are you out so late ? '' 
The person addressed partially raised her head and answered hurriedly , `` Oh , Fanny , Fanny , do not be frightened , and leave me ; I am not dead , and never was buried in that grave as you suppose , but am here to-night , a living , repentant woman , '' and throwing back her bonnet , the thin , white face of Julia Middleton was in the bright moonlight perfectly distinguishable to Fanny , who at first recoiled in fear and leaned for support against the marble pillar near which she was standing . 
She , however , soon recovered her self-command and glancing at the object on the grave , saw that she was caressing Tiger , who seemed trying various ways to evince his joy at finding one whom he had long missed , for he had ever been Julia 's favorite . 
Again Julia spoke , `` Fanny , dear Fanny . 
An instant Fanny wavered , then with a half fearful , half joyful cry she went forward , and by the grave of the mother that day lowered to the dust , the sisters met in a long , fervent embrace . 
Into the best chamber of their father 's house Fanny led the weeping , repentant girl , and gently removing her bonnet and shawl , bade her lie down upon the nicely-cushioned lounge , while she went for their father . 
As she was leaving the room Julia arose and laid her small , bony hand on Fanny 's shoulder . 
It had rested there before , for in the grave-yard , with their buried mother between them , Julia 's arms had encircled her sister 's neck ; but the first excitement was over , and now involuntarily Fanny shrank from that touch , for spite of all her courage , she could not help associating Julia with the grass-grown grave , and the large white monument . 
`` I do , '' said Fanny , and she glided down the stairs towards her father 's room . 
He was awake , for ere her hand touched the door knob , his sonorous `` Who 's thar ! '' 
fell on her ear This somewhat disconcerted her , for she had intended stopping near his door , to devise the best means by which to break the intelligence . 
was again repeated , and entering the room she said softly , `` It 's I , father . '' 
`` Why , sure enough , '' said he , and then as the light from her lamp fell on her features , he exclaimed , `` Why , how white you be ! 
`` No , George is not sick , '' said Fanny , `` but -- , '' and then as well as she could she told him all she knew . 
Fanny directed him where to find her , and then returned to Julia , whither her father soon followed . 
Then laying her down , he turned to Fanny , who was alarmed at his manner , and said , `` Come , Sunshine , darling , go to the grave-yard agin , and mebby you 'll fetch Nancy this time . 
Seeing that Fanny did not move , he continued more imploringly , `` Oh , Sunshine , do go . 
said Julia , while Fanny , winding her arms about his neck , said , `` Oh , father , father , do n't talk so , mother 's in heaven . 
was Judy 's only answer , and Uncle Joshua 's stock of patience , which even now was not remarkably large , was fast oozing out , when Fanny appeared in the room , and at her father 's request , corroborated what he had said . 
He had first asked Fanny to go for her sister , and she arose to obey him . 
Hastily arising she proceeded with her toilet , which was nearly completed when Fanny tapped gently at the door , and immediately entered the room , saying , `` Good morning , dear Julia . 
`` Oh , I ca n't see him , I ca n't , '' said Julia , and Fanny answered , `` Oh , never mind him . 
Julia 's eyes were fixed upon Fanny 's face , and for the first time she seemed to discover how greatly she had improved in looks . 
The exceeding paleness of her cheek was gone , and the bright , healthful bloom which had taken its place , though differing in shade , was equally as beautiful as the roses of which Julia once had boasted . 
The contrast affected her painfully , and instead of replying to what Fanny had said , she asked , `` Am I indeed so greatly changed , or is it you who have grown so beautiful ? '' 
Fanny , too , looked in the glass , and guessing the cause of her sister 's thoughts , placed her arm around her neck and said , `` Never mind that either . 
So saying she led the reluctant girl down the long staircase , through the wide hall to the door of the breakfast room , where Mr. Middleton stood waiting for them . 
That afternoon in her chamber were seated Mr. Middleton and Fanny , while Julia recounted the story of her wanderings . 
Then came a reaction , and when our angel mother glided so noiselessly around my sick room ; when you , darling Fanny , nursed me with so much care , and even father 's voice grew low and kind as he addressed me , my better nature , if I have any , was touched , and I thought I would like to live for the sake of retrieving the past . 
You , Fanny , would hate me , and father would treat me as he always had , only worse . '' 
About that time I heard rumors of a marriage which would take place as soon as I was well ; and , Fanny , will you forgive me ? 
A pressure of the hand was Fanny 's only answer , and Julia proceeded : `` I could not see you married to him . 
asked Fanny . 
After a moment Julia continued : `` In those close , heated rooms , there was a ray of sunlight , which in its gentle love for me , reminded me of Fanny . '' 
In the intensity of my grief I was not conscious of Fanny 's approach until she stood near me . 
Still his fondness for Fanny was undiminished , and occasionally , after looking earnestly at both his children , he would exclaim , `` Hang me , if I do n't b ` lieve Sunshine is a heap the handsomest ; '' but if these words caused Julia any emotion , 't was never betrayed . 
At first nearly all treated her with cool neglect ; but as she kept entirely at home , curiosity to see one who had , as it were , come back from the dead , triumphed overall other feelings ; and at last , all who came to see Fanny asked also for her sister . 
Before Dr. Lacey and Fanny returned to New Orleans , they saw Florence Woodburn , with a happy , loving heart , give her hand to Frank Cameron , who ever cherished for his young wife a tenderness as deep as he ever could have felt for Fanny Middleton . 
We can not do better than to give a part of a letter which she wrote to Fanny two weeks after her arrival in the city . 
`` I have since asked her forgiveness , and she pretended to forgive me , but I do n't more than half think she has , for between you and me , Fanny , I actually think she intends to roast me alive , and all on the plea of my having come from Kentucky , where she imagines the thermometer is always at the boiling point . 
She keeps the hottest fires I ever felt , and if by accident I open the window for a breath of air , she shuts it down with a bang , that would make me start , were I not so perfectly weakened by heat . 
Mr. Middleton purchased for a winter residence a house near Dr. Lacey 's , and between Fanny and Inez there sprang up a strong ardent affection . 
Inez had never had a sister and she readily turned to Fanny , who reciprocated her love . 
The spring following Dr. Lacey 's return to New Orleans , Uncle Joshua was thrown into a great ferment by a letter from Fanny , in which she said it would be impossible for them to visit Kentucky that summer , and that they would spend the season near the Lake , where she urged her father and Julia to join them . 
So for two weeks Uncle Joshua fretted because Fanny could not come , wondering what was in the wind , and making himself and every body else generally uncomfortable . 
At last Julia , whom her father now honored with the appellation of his `` Gale , '' suggested that as they could not see Fanny and would not go to New Orleans , they might take a trip through the Northern States , saying that she knew her Uncle William would be pleased to accompany them . 
`` Well , we 'll see , '' said her father , who seemed rather pleased with the idea . 
`` Fanny Middleton 's father , '' said Mrs. Cameron , immediately changing her manner and offering her hand , while Gertrude flew to Julia 's side , overwhelming her with a thousand questions concerning `` Cousin Kate , '' and Fanny , the latter of whom , `` we were so delighted with . '' 
During the winter , Fanny wrote frequently to her father , urging him to visit her ; but this he declined doing , and early the following May , he stood one evening impatiently awaiting the arrival of Ike , who had gone to Frankfort with the expectation of meeting Fanny and her husband . 
The carriage and carriage horses had been brushed up , a new saddle had been bought for Fanny 's pony , and a new dress for each of the black women , and every thing and every body seemed expecting a joyful time . 
The steps were let down , and there , blithesome and gay as ever , Fanny sprang from the carriage and ran into the arms of her father , who kissed her again and again , holding her off to look at her and then again drawing her to him and saying , `` You 're handsomer than ever . '' 
said Uncle Joshua , releasing Fanny and advancing towards Dr. Lacey , who proudly placed in his arms a beautiful nine months old baby , saying , `` We have brought you a second Sunshine . '' 
`` Oh , a baby , a little live baby , and Miss Fanny 's baby too ! 
Fanny remonstrated , but her father said , `` Let her alone ; -- let her work . 
She may pull every hair out of my head if she wants to . 
`` Because , '' answered Fanny , `` we at first thought you would surely visit us in the winter , and we wished to surprise you ; but you did not come , and then I took a fancy to keep it from you until we came home , so I did not write , and I made Inez and Uncle William promise not to . 
The greater part of the summer they spent at the house of Uncle Joshua , where , together with Dr. Lacey and Fanny , they formed as happy a party as one will often find . 
During the summer Lida Gibson wrote to Fanny , saying that Mabel Mortimer , having lost both the Doctor and Mr. Ashton , had at last taken up with her brother John , who had danced attendance upon her for several years . 
