Adjoining the eastern side of the green house , looking towards the plains of Languedoc , was a room , which Emily called hers , and which contained her books , her drawings , her musical instruments , with some favourite birds and plants . 
Here she usually exercised herself in elegant arts , cultivated only because they were congenial to her taste , and in which native genius , assisted by the instructions of Monsieur and Madame St. Aubert , made her an early proficient . 
In person , Emily resembled her mother ; having the same elegant symmetry of form , the same delicacy of features , and the same blue eyes , full of tender sweetness . 
But , lovely as was her person , it was the varied expression of her countenance , as conversation awakened the nicer emotions of her mind , that threw such a captivating grace around her : `` Those tend ` rer tints , that shun the careless eye , And , in the world 's contagious circle , die . '' 
It was one of Emily 's earliest pleasures to ramble among the scenes of nature ; nor was it in the soft and glowing landscape that she most delighted ; she loved more the wild wood-walks , that skirted the mountain ; and still more the mountain 's stupendous recesses , where the silence and grandeur of solitude impressed a sacred awe upon her heart , and lifted her thoughts to the God of heaven and earth . 
In scenes like these she would often linger alone , wrapt in a melancholy charm , till the last gleam of day faded from the west ; till the lonely sound of a sheep-bell , or the distant bark of a watch-dog , were all that broke on the stillness of the evening . 
Then , the gloom of the woods ; the trembling of their leaves , at intervals , in the breeze ; the bat , flitting on the twilight ; the cottage-lights , now seen , and now lost -- were circumstances that awakened her mind into effort , and led to enthusiasm and poetry . 
Her favourite walk was to a little fishing-house , belonging to St. Aubert , in a woody glen , on the margin of a rivulet that descended from the Pyrenées , and , after foaming among their rocks , wound its silent way beneath the shades it reflected . 
Sometimes , too , he brought music of his own , and awakened every fairy echo with the tender accents of his oboe ; and often have the tones of Emily 's voice drawn sweetness from the waves , over which they trembled . 
It was in one of her excursions to this spot , that she observed the following lines written with a pencil on a part of the wainscot : These lines were not inscribed to any person ; Emily therefore could not apply them to herself , though she was undoubtedly the nymph of these shades . 
Having glanced round the little circle of her acquaintance without being detained by a suspicion as to whom they could be addressed , she was compelled to rest in uncertainty ; an uncertainty which would have been more painful to an idle mind than it was to hers . 
She had no leisure to suffer this circumstance , trifling at first to swell into importance by frequent remembrance . 
The little vanity it had excited -LRB- for the incertitude which forbade her to presume upon having inspired the sonnet , forbade her also to disbelieve it -RRB- passed away , and the incident was dismissed from her thoughts amid her books , her studies , and the exercise of social charities . 
Soon after this period , her anxiety was awakened by the indisposition of her father , who was attacked with a fever ; which , though not thought to be of a dangerous kind , gave a severe shock to his constitution . 
Madame St. Aubert and Emily attended him with unremitting care ; but his recovery was very slow , and , as he advanced towards health , Madame seemed to decline . 
A basket of provisions was sent thither , with books , and Emily 's lute ; for fishing-tackle he had no use , for he never could find amusement in torturing or destroying . 
St. Aubert observed this more than once , and gently reproved her for the emotion ; but she could only smile , clasp his hand , and that of Emily , and weep the more . 
To relieve , or perhaps to indulge , the pensive temper of his mind , hebade Emily fetch the lute she knew how to touch with such sweet pathos . 
As she drew near the fishing-house , she was surprised to hear the tones of the instrument , which were awakened by the hand of taste , and uttered a plaintive air , whose exquisite melody engaged all her attention . 
She listened in profound silence , afraid to move from the spot , lest the sound of her steps should occasion her to lose a note of the music , or should disturb the musician . 
She continued to listen , till timidity succeeded to surprise and delight ; a timidity , increased by a remembrance of the pencilled lines she had formerly seen , and she hesitated whether to proceed , or to return . 
While she paused , the music ceased ; and , after a momentary hesitation , she recollected courage to advance to the fishing-house , which she entered with faltering steps , and found unoccupied ! 
Her lute lay on the table ; every thing seemed undisturbed , and she began to believe it was another instrument she had heard , till she remembered , that , when she followed M. and Madame St. Aubert from this spot , her lute was left on a window seat . 
Having reached a green summit , shadowed by palm-trees , and overlooking the vallies and plains of Gascony , they seated themselves on the turf ; and while their eyes wandered over the glorious scene , and they inhaled the sweet breath of flowers and herbs that enriched the grass , Emily played and sung several of their favourite airs , with the delicacy of expression in which she so much excelled . 
St. Aubert and his family rose , and left the place with regret ; alas ! 
After a long search , in which Emily was very active , she was compelled to resign herself to the loss of it . 
What made this bracelet valuable to her was a miniature of her daughter to which it was attached , esteemed a striking resemblance , and which had been painted only a few months before . 
When Emily was convinced that the bracelet was really gone , she blushed , and became thoughtful . 
That some stranger had been in the fishing-house , during her absence , her lute , and the additional lines of a pencil , had already informed her : from the purport of these lines it was not unreasonable to believe , that the poet , the musician , and the thief were the same person . 
But though the music she had heard , the written lines she had seen , and the disappearance of the picture , formed a combination of circumstances very remarkable , she was irresistibly restrained from mentioning them ; secretly determining , however , never again to visit the fishing-house without Monsieur or Madame St. Aubert . 
They returned pensively to the chateau , Emily musing on the incident which had just occurred ; St. Aubert reflecting , with placid gratitude , on the blessings he possessed ; and Madame St. Aubert somewhat disturbed , and perplexed , by the loss of her daughter 's picture . 
She described with equal minuteness the magnificence she had seen , and that from which she had been excluded ; while Emily 's vivid fancy , as she listened with the ardent curiosity of youth , heightened the scenes she heard of ; and Madame St. Aubert , looking on her family , felt , as a tear stole to her eye , that though splendour may grace happiness , virtue only can bestow it . 
Emily was somewhat surprised to hear him talk of being tempted to remain abroad , after he had mentioned his presence to be so necessary at Paris , that it was with difficulty he could steal away for a month or two ; but St. Aubert understood the self-importance of the man too well to wonder at this trait ; and the possibility , that these projected improvements might be deferred , gave him a hope , that they might never take place . 
Emily returned , with delight , to the liberty which their presence had restrained , to her books , her walks , and the rational conversation of M. and Madame St. Aubert , who seemed to rejoice , no less , that they were delivered from the shackles , which arrogance and frivolity had imposed . 
Madame St. Aubert excused herself from sharing their usual evening walk , complaining that she was not quite well , and St. Aubert and Emily went out together . 
`` O my dear father , '' said Emily , while a sudden tear started to her eye , `` how exactly you describe what I have felt so often , and which I thought nobody had ever felt but myself ! 
Emily laughed . 
`` Well , my dear sir , '' said she , `` since you allow of this alliance , I may venture to own I have anticipated you ; and almost dare venture to repeat some verses I made one evening in these very woods . '' 
`` If it is strong enough to enchant your judgment , sir , '' said Emily , `` while I disclose her images , I need not envy them . 
`` Do not attempt to deceive me , '' said she , `` I feel that I can not long survive . 
The physician was affected ; he promised to obey her , and told St. Aubert , somewhat abruptly , that there was nothing to expect . 
Emily was at first overwhelmed with the intelligence ; then , deluded by the strength of her wishes , a hope sprung up in her mind that her mother would yet recover , and to this she pertinaciously adhered almost to the last hour . 
During these her last hours , she conversed much with St. Aubert and Emily , on the prospect of futurity , and on other religious topics . 
Never had Emily felt the importance of the lessons , which had taught her to restrain her sensibility , so much as in these moments , and never had she practised them with a triumph so complete . 
But when the last was over , she sunk at once under the pressure of her sorrow , and then perceived that it was hope , as well as fortitude , which had hitherto supported her . 
Emily only was absent ; who , overcome with the scene she had just witnessed , had retired to her closet to weep alone . 
It trembled while he said , `` My Emily , I am going to prayers with my family ; you will join us . 
Emily checked her tears , and followed her father to the parlour , where , the servants being assembled , St. Aubert read , in a low and solemn voice , the evening service , and added a prayer for the soul of the departed . 
When the service was ended , and the servants were withdrawn , he tenderly kissed Emily , and said , `` I have endeavoured to teach you , from your earliest youth , the duty of self-command ; I have pointed out to you the great importance of it through life , not only as it preserves us in the various and dangerous temptations that call us from rectitude and virtue , but as it limits the indulgences which are termed virtuous , yet which , extended beyond a certain boundary , are vicious , for their consequence is evil . 
My dear Emily , recollect and practise the precepts I have so often given you , and which your own experience has so often shewn you to be wise . 
I will shew my Emily , that I can practise what I advise . 
You , my Emily , will shew that you are willing to avoid it . '' 
Emily smiled through her tears upon her father : `` Dear Sir , '' said she , and her voice trembled ; she would have added , `` I will shew myself worthy of being your daughter ; '' but a mingled emotion of gratitude , affection , and grief overcame her . 
Emily wept unceasingly while she spoke ; St. Aubert was tranquil , listened to what she said in silence , and then turned the discourse upon another subject . 
An affair of an interesting nature made it necessary that he should delay this visit no longer , and , wishing to rouse Emily from her dejection , he took her with him to Epourville . 
The sound of carriage wheels brought a troop of servants to the great gate , where St. Aubert alighted , and from which he led Emily into the gothic hall , now no longer hung with the arms and ancient banners of the family . 
Emily felt tears swell into her eyes , and then resentment checked them . 
After some general conversation , St. Aubert requested to speak with him alone ; and Emily , being left with Madame Quesnel , soon learned that a large party was invited to dine at the chateau , and was compelled to hear that nothing which was past and irremediable ought to prevent the festivity of the present hour . 
But he was informed , that Madame Cheron had been asked to meet him ; and , when he looked at Emily , and considered that a time might come when the enmity of her uncle would be prejudicial to her , he determined not to incur it himself , by conduct which would be resented as indecorous , by the very persons who now shewed so little sense of decorum . 
Emily was shocked by the salutation with which Madame Cheron met her father -- `` Dear brother , '' said she , `` I am concerned to see you look so very ill ; do , pray , have advice ! '' 
St. Aubert answered , with a melancholy smile , that he felt himself much as usual ; but Emily 's fears made her now fancy that her father looked worse than he really did . 
Emily would have been amused by the new characters she saw , and the varied conversation that passed during dinner , which was served in a style of splendour she had seldom seen before , had her spirits been less oppressed . 
When he could disengage himself from the assiduities of the other ladies , he sometimes addressed Emily : but she knew nothing of Parisian fashions , or Parisian operas ; and her modesty , simplicity , and correct manners formed a decided contrast to those of her female companions . 
As he stood under its shade ; and looked up among its branches , still luxuriant , and saw here and there the blue sky trembling between them ; the pursuits and events of his early days crowded fast to his mind , with the figures and characters of friends -- long since gone from the earth ; and he now felt himself to be almost an insulated being , with nobody but his Emily for his heart to turn to . 
St. Aubert ordered his carriage at an early hour , and Emily observed , that he was more than unusually silent and dejected on the way home ; but she considered this to be the effect of his visit to a place which spoke so eloquently of former times , nor suspected that he had a cause of grief which he concealed from her . 
On entering the chateau she felt more depressed than ever , for she more than ever missed the presence of that dear parent , who , whenever she had been from home , used to welcome her return with smiles and fondness ; now , all was silent and forsaken . 
Week after week passed away , and each , as it passed , stole something from the harshness of her affliction , till it was mellowed to that tenderness which the feeling heart cherishes as sacred . 
St. Aubert , on the contrary , visibly declined in health ; though Emily , who had been so constantly with him , was almost the last person who observed it . 
His constitution had never recovered from the late attack of the fever , and the succeeding shock it had received from Madame St. Aubert 's death had produced its present infirmity . 
His physician now ordered him to travel ; for it was perceptible that sorrow had seized upon his nerves , weakened as they had been by the preceding illness ; and variety of scene , it was probable , would , by amusing his mind , restore them to their proper tone . 
For some days Emily was occupied in preparations to attend him ; and he , by endeavours to diminish his expences at home during the journey -- a purpose which determined him at length to dismiss his domestics . 
Emily seldom opposed her father 's wishes by questions or remonstrances , or she would now have asked why he did not take a servant , and have represented that his infirm health made one almost necessary . 
But when , on the eve of their departure , she found that he had dismissed Jacques , Francis , and Mary , and detained only Theresa the old housekeeper , she was extremely surprised , and ventured to ask his reason for having done so . 
`` To save expences , my dear , '' he replied -- `` we are going on an expensive excursion . '' 
They retired early to their chamber on the night before their departure ; but Emily had a few books and other things to collect , and the clock had struck twelve before she had finished , or had remembered that some of her drawing instruments , which she meant to take with her , were in the parlour below . 
As she went to fetch these , she passed her father 's room , and , perceiving the door half open , concluded that he was in his study -- for , since the death of Madame St. Aubert , it had been frequently his custom to rise from his restless bed , and go thither to compose his mind . 
Emily believed her father to be in the closet , and , surprised that he was up at so late an hour , apprehended he was unwell , and was going to enquire ; but , considering that her sudden appearance at this hour might alarm him , she removed her light to the stair-cafe , and then stepped softly to the closet . 
On looking through the panes of glass , she saw him seated at a small table , with papers before him , some of which he was reading with deep attention and interest , during which he often wept , and sobbed aloud . 
Emily , who had come to the door to learn whether her father was ill , was now detained there by a mixture of curiosity and tenderness . 
She could not witness his sorrow , without being anxious to know the subject of it ; and she therefore continued to observe him in silence , concluding that those papers were letters of her late mother . 
Presently he knelt down , and with a look so solemn as she had seldom seen him assume , and which was mingled with a certain wild expression , that partook more of horror than of any other character , he prayed silently for a considerable time . 
Emily was hastily retiring ; but she saw him turn again to the papers , and she stopped . 
The rays of light fell strongly upon it , and she perceived it to be that of a lady , but not of her mother . 
Emily could scarcely believe what she saw to be real . 
She never knew till now that he had a picture of any other lady than her mother , much less that he had one which he evidently valued so highly ; but having looked repeatedly , to be certain that it was not the resemblance of Madame St. Aubert , she became entirely convinced that it was designed for that of some other person . 
At length St. Aubert returned the picture into its case ; and Emily , recollecting that she was intruding upon his private sor . 
He and Emily continued sunk in musing silence for some leagues , from which melancholy reverie Emily first awoke , and her young fancy , struck with the grandeur of the objects around , gradually yielded to delightful impressions . 
Emily could not restrain her transport as she looked over the pine forests of the mountains upon the vast plains , that , enriched with woods , towns , blushing vines , and plantations of almonds , palms and olives , stretched along , till their various colours melted in distance into one harmonious hue , that seemed to unite earth with heaven . 
For the mind , also , they had provided , by a work on botany , written by M. Barreaux , and by several of the Latin and Italian poets ; while Emily 's pencil enabled her to preserve some of those combinations of forms , which charmed her at every step . 
It was some time before St. Aubert or Emily could withdraw their attention from the surrounding objects , so as to partake of their little repast . 
Notwithstanding this occupation , when he had talked awhile he suddenly became silent , thoughtful , and tears often swelled to his eyes , which Emily observed , and the sympathy of her own heart told her their cause . 
When he returned , his countenance had recovered its usual serenity ; he took Emily 's hand , pressed it affectionately , without speaking , and soon after called to the muleteer , who sat at a little distance , concerning a road among the mountains towards Rousillon . 
Emily was terrified almost to fainting ; and St.Aubert , apprehending still greater danger from suddenly stopping the driver , was compelled to sit quietly , and trust his fate to the strength and discretion of the mules , who seemed to possess a greater portion of the latter quality than their master ; for they carried the travellers safely into the valley , and there stopped upon the brink of the rivulet that watered it . 
St. Aubert enquired of Michael the distance to the hamlet he had mentioned , but the man could not with certainty tell ; and Emily began to fear that he had mistaken the road . 
Emily , as she looked up one of these , faw something at a great distance like a bright cloud in the air , `` What light is yonder , sir ? '' 
said she . 
Emily followed slowly in the carriage . 
Nothing like a bed could be found , and he had ceased to enquire for one , when Emily joined him , who observed the languor of her father 's countenance , and lamented , that he had taken a road so ill provided with the comforts necessary for an invalid . 
Emily turned from such scenes , and looked at her father with anxious tenderness , which the young stranger seemed to observe ; for , drawing St. Aubert aside , he made him an offer of his own bed . 
St. Aubert , at length , consented , that , if this could be done , he would accept his kindness , though he felt rather surprised , that the stranger had proved himself so deficient in gallantry , as to administer to the repose of an infirm man , rather than to that of a very lovely young woman , for he had not once offered the room for Emily . 
But she thought not of herself , and the animated smile she gave him , told how much she felt herself obliged for the preference of her father . 
It was late when St. Aubert and Emily retired to their rooms , and Valancourt to his station at the door , which , at this mild season , he preferred to a close cabin and a bed of skins . 
The dawn , which softened the scenery with its peculiar grey tint , now dispersed , and Emily watched the progress of the day , first trembling on the tops of the highest cliffs , then touching them with splendid light , while their sides and the vale below were still wrapt in dewy mist . 
Emily wished to trip along the turf , so green and bright with dew , and to taste the full delight of that liberty , which the izard seemed to enjoy as he bounded along the brow of the cliffs ; while Valancourt often stopped to speak with the travellers , and with social feeling to point out to them the peculiar objects of his admiration . 
As he went , St. Aubert observed him look with an earnest and pensive eye at Emily , who bowed to him with a countenance full of timid sweetness , while the carriage drove on . 
Often , as the carriage moved slowly over uneven ground , St. Aubert alighted , and amused himself with examining the curious plants that grew on the banks of the road , and with which these regions abound ; while Emily , wrapt in high enthusiasm , wandered away under the shades , listening in deep silence to the lonely murmur of the woods . 
St. Aubert , with the muleteer , assisted him to dismount , and he sat down on the bank of the road , where St. Aubert tried to bind up his arm , but his hands trembled so excessively that he could not accomplish it ; and , Michael being now gone in pursuit of the horse , which , on being disengaged from his rider , had galloped off , he called Emily to his assistance . 
Receiving no answer , he went to the carriage , and found her sunk on the seat in a fainting fit . 
Between the distress of this circumstance and that of leaving Valancourt bleeding , he scarcely knew what he did ; he endeavoured , however , to raise her , and called to Michael to fetch water from the rivulet that flowed by the road , but Michael was gone beyond the reach of his voice . 
Valancourt , who heard these calls , and also the repeated name of Emily , instantly understood the subject of his distress ; and , almost forgetting his own condition , he hastened to her relief . 
She was reviving when he reached the carriage ; and then , understanding that anxiety for him had occasioned her indisposition , he assured her , in a voice that trembled , but not from anguish , that his wound was of no consequence . 
The muleteer being now returned with Valancourt 's horse , assisted him into the chaise ; and , as Emily was now revived , they moved slowly on towards Beaujeu . 
Emily meanwhile was silent , except when Valancourt particularly addressed her , and there was at those times a tremulous tone in his voice that spoke much . 
Emily looked with some degree of terror on the savage countenances of these people , shewn by the fire , which heightened the romantic effect of the scenery , as it threw a red dusky gleam upon the rocks and on the foliage of the trees , leaving heavy masses of shade and regions of obscurity , which the eye feared to penetrate . 
The delight of ease had now succeeded to pain ; for ease may be allowed to assume a positive quality when contrasted with anguish ; and , his spirits thus re-animated , he wished to partake of the conversation of St. Aubert and Emily , who , released from so many apprehensions , were uncommonly cheerful . 
Late as it was , however , St. Aubert was obliged to go out with the landlord to buy meat for supper ; and Emily , who , during this interval , had been absent as long as she could , upon excuses of looking to their accommodation , which she found rather better than she expected , was compelled to return , and converse with Valancourt alone . 
They talked of the character of the scenes they had passed , of the natural history of the country , of poetry , and of St. Aubert ; a subject on which Emily always spoke and listened to with peculiar pleasure . 
By order of his surgeon , Valancourt did not go out of the house that day ; but St. Aubert and Emily surveyed with delight the environs of the town , situated at the feet of the Pyrenean Alps , that rose , some in abrupt precipices , and others swelling with woods of cedar , fir , and cypress , which stretched nearly to their highest summits . 
They travelled leisurely ; stopping where-ever a scene uncommonly grand appeared ; frequently alighting to walk to an eminence , whither the mules could not go , from which the prospect opened in greater magnificence ; and often sauntering over hillocks covered with lavender , wild thyme , juniper , and tamarisc ; and under the shades of woods , between whose boles they caught the long mountain-vista , sublime beyond any thing that Emily had ever imagined . 
St. Aubert sometimes amused himself with botanizing , while Valancourt and Emily strolled on ; he pointing out to her notice the objects that particularly charmed him , and reciting beautiful passages from such of the Latin and Italian poets as he had heard her admire . 
In the pauses of conversation , when he thought himself not observed , he frequently fixed his eyes pensively on her countenance , which expressed with so much animation the taste and energy of her mind ; and when he spoke again , there was a peculiar tenderness in the tone of his voice , that defeated any attempt to conceal his sentiments . 
By degrees these silent pauses became more frequent ; till Emily , only , betrayed an anxiety to interrupt them ; and she , who had been hitherto reserved , would now talk again , and again , of the woods and the vallies and the mountains , to avoid the danger of sympathy and silence . 
Valancourt now and then spoke , to point to Emily 's notice some feature of the scene . 
The thinness of the atmosphere , through which every object came so distinctly to the eye , surprised and deluded her ; who could scarcely believe that objects , which appeared so near , were , in reality , so distant . 
Emily delighted to observe the grandeur of these clouds as they changed in shape and tints , and to watch their various effect on the lower world , whose features , partly veiled , were continually assuming new forms of sublimity . 
We will all go to the convent ; your good looks would defeat our purpose ; but when they see mine and Emily 's exhausted countenances , they will scarcely deny us repose . '' 
As he said this , he took Emily 's arm within his , and , telling Michael to wait a while in the road with the carriage , they began to ascend towards the woods , guided by the bell of the convent . 
The gloom and the silence that prevailed , except when the bell returned upon the air , together with the wildness of the surrounding scene , struck Emily with a degree of fear , which , however , the voice and conversation of Valancourt somewhat repressed . 
He sat down upon the turf , between Emily and Valancourt . 
St. Aubert was silent ; Emily perceived a warm tear fall upon the hand he held ; she knew the object of his thoughts ; hers too had , for some time , been occupied by the remembrance of her mother . 
said Emily . 
`` A few years hence , my Emily , '' replied St. Aubert , `` and you may smile at the recollection of that question -- if you do not weep to it . 
While St. Aubert was too much indisposed to share it , Emily , in her anxiety for her father , forgot herself ; and Valancourt , silent and thoughtful , yet never inattentive to them , appeared particularly solicitous to accommodate and relieve St. Aubert , who often observed , while his daughter was pressing him to eat , or adjusting the pillow she had placed in the back of his arm-chair , that Valancourt fixed on her a look of pensive tenderness , which he was not displeased to understand . 
Emily was shown to hers by a nun of the convent , whom she was glad to dismiss , for her heart was melancholy , and her attention so much abstracted , that conversation with a stranger was painful . 
She thought her father daily declining , and attributed his present fatigue more to the feeble state of his frame , than to the difficulty of the journey . 
A train of gloomy ideas haunted her mind , till she fell asleep . 
In about two hour after , she was awakened by the chiming of a bell , and then heard quick steps pass along the gallery , into which her chamber opened . 
She was so little accustomed to the manners of a convent , as to be alarmed by this circumstance ; her fears , ever alive for her father , suggested that he was very ill , and she rose in haste to go to him . 
Having paused , however , to let the persons in the gallery pass before she opened her door , her thoughts , in the mean time , recovered from the confusion of sleep , and she understood that the bell was the call of the monks to prayers . 
It had now ceased , and , all being again still , she forbore to go to St. Aubert 's room . 
The midnight chant of the monks soon after dropped into silence ; but Emily remained at the easement , watching the setting moon , and the valley sinking into deep shade , and willing to prolong her present state of mind . 
At length she retired to her mattress , and sunk into tranquil slumber . 
St. Aubert , as he sometimes lingered to examine the wild plants in his path , often looked forward with pleasure to Emily and Valancourt , as they strolled on together ; he , with a countenance of animated delight , pointing to her attention some grand feature of the scene ; and she , listening and observing with a look of tender seriousness , that spoke the elevation of her mind . 
St. Aubert smiled , and sighed at the romantic picture of felicity his fancy drew ; and sighed again to think , that nature and simplicity were so little known to the world , as that their pleasures were thought romantic . 
`` The world , '' said he , pursuing this train of thought , `` ridicules a passion which it seldom feels ; its scenes , and its interests , distract the mind , deprave the taste , corrupt the heart , and love can not exist in a heart that has lost the meek dignity of innocence . 
The pauses of silence , such as had formerly interrupted the conversations of Valancourt and Emily , were more frequent today than ever . 
Valancourt often dropped suddenly from the most animating vivacity into fits of deep musing , and there was , sometimes , an unaffected melancholy in his smile , which Emily could not avoid understanding , for her heart was interested in the sentiment it spoke . 
The road was at a considerable distance from the spot where St. Aubert and Emily were ; the carriage could not easily return to the entrance of the wood , and , since it would be very fatiguing for St. Aubert to climb the long and steep road to the place where it now stood , Valancourt was anxious to find a more easy ascent , by the way he had himself passed . 
Meanwhile St. Aubert and Emily approached the cottage , and rested themselves on a rustic bench , fastened between two pines , which overshadowed it , till Valancourt , whose steps they had observed , should return . 
St. Aubert looked with pleasure upon this picture of infantine simplicity , till it brought to his remembrance his own boys , whom he had lost about the age of these , and their lamented mother ; and he sunk into a thoughtfulness , which Emily observing , she immediately began to sing one of those simple and lively airs he was so fond of , and which she knew how to give with the most captivating sweetness . 
He thought , however , it would be less toilsome than the long and broken road , and he determined to attempt it ; but Emily , ever watchful of his ease , proposing that he should rest , and dine before they proceeded further , Valancourt went to the carriage for the refreshments deposited there . 
The innocent countenance of the woman , and the simplicity of her manner in relating her grievance , inclined St. Aubert to believe her story ; and Valancourt , convinced that it was true , asked eagerly what was the value of the stolen sheep ; on hearing which he turned away with a look of disappointment , St. Aubert put some money into her hand , Emily too gave something from her little purse , and they walked towards the cliff ; but Valancourt lingered behind , and spoke to the shepherd 's wife , who was now weeping with gratitude and surprise . 
His forlorn and melancholy look determined Valancourt at once ; he threw down all the money he had , except a very few louis , and bounded away after St. Aubert and Emily , who were proceeding slowly up the steep . 
This spot seemed the very haunt of banditti ; and Emily , as she looked down upon it , almost expected to see them stealing out from some hollow cave to look for their prey . 
Soon after an object not less terrific struck her , -- a gibbet standing on a point of rock near the entrance of the pass , and immediately over one of the crosses she had before observed . 
She forbore to point it out to St. Aubert , but it threw a gloom over her spirits , and made her anxious to hasten forward , that they might with certainty reach Rousillon before night-fall . 
St. Aubert rejoiced when he reached the carriage , which Emily entered with him ; but Valancourt , willing to take a more extensive view of the enchanting country , into which they were about to descend , than he could do from a carriage , loosened his dogs , and once more bounded with them along the banks of the road . 
Whenever a scene of uncommon magnificence appeared , he hastened to inform St. Aubert , who , though he was too much tired to walk himself , sometimes made the chaise wait , while Emily went to the neighbouring cliff . 
During this evening he was often silent and thoughtful ; St. Aubert 's manner towards him was affectionate , though grave , and Emily was serious , though she made frequent efforts to appear cheerful . 
In the morning , Valancourt breakfasted with St. Aubert and Emily , neither of whom seemed much refreshed by sleep . 
The languor of illness still hung over St. Aubert , and to Emily 's fears his disorder appeared to be increasing fast upon him . 
She watched his looks with anxious affection , and their expression was always faithfully reflected in her own . 
The breakfast was almost as silent as the supper of the preceding night ; but their musing was at length interrupted by the sound of the carriage-wheels , which were to bear away St. Aubert and Emily . 
St. Aubert told Valancourt , that he hoped he would never pass La Vallée without favouring him with a visit ; and Valancourt , eagerly thanking him , assured him that he never would ; as he said which he looked timidly at Emily , who tried to smile away the seriousness of her spirits . 
They passed a few minutes in interesting conversation , and St. Aubert then led the way to the carriage , Emily and Valancourt following in silence . 
At length , St. Aubert pronounced the melancholy word , which Emily passed to Valancourt , who returned it , with a dejected smile , and the carriage drove on . 
St. Aubert sighed , and sunk again into a reverie ; and , as Emily looked back upon the road they had passed , Valancourt was seen , at the door of the little inn , following them with his eyes . 
He perceived her , and waved his hand ; and she returned the adieu , till the winding road shut her from his sight . 
`` My dear sir , do not think so gloomily , '' said Emily in a trembling voice , `` I hope you have many , many years to live -- for your own sake -- for my sake . '' 
`` Ah , my Emily ! '' 
Emily , who pressed her father 's hand affectionately , had never before listened with so much pleasure to the praises he bestowed ; no , not even when he had bestowed them on herself . 
Emily gazed with enthusiasm on the vastness of the sea , its surface varying , as the lights and shadows fell , and on its woody banks , mellowed with autumnal tints . 
After travelling a few miles , he fell asleep ; and Emily , who had put two or three books into the carriage , on leaving La Vallée , had now the leisure for looking into them . 
She sought for one , in which Valancourt had been reading the day before , and hoped for the pleasure of re-tracing a page , over which the eyes of a beloved friend had lately passed , of dwelling on the passages , which he had admired , and of permitting them to speak to her in the language of his own mind , and to bring himself to her presence . 
On searching for the book , she could find it no where , but in its stead perceived a volume of Petrarch 's poems , that had belonged to Valancourt , whose name was written in it , and from which he had frequently read passages to her , with all the pathetic expression , that characterized the feelings of the author . 
She hesitated in believing , what would have been sufficiently apparent to almost any other person , that he had purposely left this book , instead of the one she had lost , and that love had prompted the exchange ; but , having opened it with impatient pleasure , and observed the lines of his pencil drawn along the various passages he had read aloud , and under others more descriptive of delicate tenderness than he had dared to trust his voice with , the conviction came , at length , to her mind . 
For some moments she was conscious only of being beloved ; then , a recollection of all the variations of tone and countenance , with which he had recited these sonnets , and of the soul , which spoke in their expression , pressed to her memory , and she wept over the memorial of his affection . 
They arrived at Perpignan soon after sunset , where St. Aubert found , as he had expected , letters from M. Quesnel , the contents of which so evidently and grievously affected him , that Emily was alarmed , and pressed him , as far as her delicacy would permit , to disclose the occasion of his concern ; but he answered her only by tears , and immediately began to talk on other topics . 
Emily , though she forbore to press the one most interesting to her , was greatly affected by her father 's manner , and passed a night of sleepless solicitude . 
On the way , Emily renewed the subject of the preceding night , and appeared so deeply affected by St. Aubert 's silence and dejection , that he relaxed from his reserve . 
`` I was unwilling , my dear Emily , '' said he , `` to throw a cloud over the pleasure you receive from these scenes , and meant , therefore , to conceal , for the present , some circumstances , with which , however , you must at length have been made acquainted . 
said Emily , after a long pause of silence . 
It is for you , Emily , for you , my child , that I am most afflicted . '' 
His last words faltered ; Emily smiled tenderly upon him through her tears , and then , endeavouring to overcome her emotion , `` My dear father , '' said she , `` do not grieve for me , or for yourself ; we may yet be happy ; -- if La Vallée remains for us , we must be happy . 
St. Aubert concealed his face with his handkerchief , and was unable to speak ; but Emily continued to urge to her father the truths , which himself had impressed upon her mind . 
St. Aubert could not reply : he caught Emily to his bosom , their tears flowed together , but -- they were not tears of sorrow . 
St. Aubert and Emily saw the busy groups , caught the joyous song , that was wafted on the breeze , and anticipated , with apparent pleasure , their next day 's journey over this gay region . 
St. Aubert was pleased , and conversed much with Emily , yet his cheerfulness was sometimes artificial , and sometimes a shade of melancholy would steal upon his countenance , and betray him . 
This was soon chased away by Emily 's smile ; who smiled , however , with an aching heart , for she saw that his misfortunes preyed upon his mind , and upon his enfeebled frame . 
The intelligent eyes of Emily seemed to read what passed in the mind of her father , and she fixed them on his face , with an expression of such tender pity , as recalled his thoughts from every desultory object of regret , and he remembered only , that he must leave his daughter without protection . 
A cool breeze now came from the shore , and Emily let down the glass ; but the air , which was refreshing to health , was as chilling to sickness , and St. Aubert desired , that the window might be drawn up . 
Emily looked anxiously from the window , and saw a peasant walking at some little distance on the road , for whom they waited , till he came up , when he was asked , if there was any house in the neighbourhood that accommodated travellers . 
There was something so gloomy and desolate in the appearance of this avenue , and its lonely silence , that Emily almost shuddered as she passed along ; and , recollecting the manner in which the peasant had mentioned the chateau , she gave a mysterious meaning to his words , such as she had not suspected when he uttered them . 
These apprehensions , however , she tried to check , considering that they were probably the effect of a melancholy imagination , which her father 's situation , and a consideration of her own circumstances , had made sensible to every impression . 
said Emily , extremely alarmed by his manner , `` you are worse , and here is no assistance . 
When the rattling of the wheels had ceased , music was heard on the air ; it was to Emily the voice of Hope . 
said she , `` help may soon be had . '' 
She listened anxiously ; the sounds were distant , and seemed to come from a remote part of the woods that bordered the road ; and , as she looked towards the spot whence they issued , she perceived in the faint moon-light something like a chateau . 
It was difficult , however , to reach this ; St. Aubert was now too ill to bear the motion of the carriage ; Michael could not quit his mules ; and Emily , who still supported her father , feared to leave him , and also feared to venture alone to such a distance , she knew not whither , or to whom . 
-- `` My dear , dear father , '' cried Emily in great agony , and who began to fear that he was dying , `` speak , if it is only one word to let me hear the sound of your voice ! '' 
In an agony of terror she bade Michael bring water from the rivulet , that flowed along the road ; and , having received some in the man 's hat , with trembling hands she sprinkled it over her father 's face , which , as the moon 's rays now fell upon it , seemed to bear the impression of death . 
Several of them rose with alacrity , and , offering any service in their power , followed Emily , who seemed to move on the wind , as fast as they could towards the road . 
When she reached the carriage , she found St. Aubert restored to animation . 
On the recovery of his senses , having heard from Michael whither his daughter was gone , anxiety for her overcame every regard for himself , and he had sent him in search of her . 
`` The chateau can not accommodate you , sir , '' said a venerable peasant who had followed Emily from the woods , `` it is scarcely inhabited ; but , if you will do me the honour to visit my cottage , you shall be welcome to the best bed it affords . '' 
The carriage again moved slowly on ; Michael following the peasants up the lane , which Emily had just quitted , till they came to the moon light glade . 
With Emily it was otherwise ; immediate terror for her father had now subsided into a gentle melancholy , which every note of joy , by awakening comparison , served to heighten . 
At length , the carriage stopped at a neat cottage , and his venerable conductor , having assisted St. Aubert to alight , led him and Emily to a small inner room , illumined only by moon-beams , which the open casement admitted . 
Emily sat by her father , holding his hand , and , while she listened to the old man , her heart swelled with the affectionate sympathy he described , and her tears fell to the mournful consideration , that death would probably soon deprive her of the dearest blessing she then possessed . 
The soft moon-light of an autumnal evening , and the distant music , which now sounded a plaintive strain , aided the melancholy of her mind . 
Emily could no longer stifle the anguish of her heart ; her tears fell fast upon her father 's hand , which she yet held . 
Look up , my dear Emily , we shall meet again ! '' 
Emily , my love , I find myself better than I have been all day ; this air refreshes me . 
Emily , though she smiled at the mention of this ridiculous superstition , could not , in the present tone of her spirits , wholly resist its contagion . 
`` Yes , my dear sir , '' said Emily pointing , `` do n't you see something glitter above the dark woods ? 
said Emily , in a voice of timid curiosity . 
`` The chateau is spacious , I suppose , '' said Emily , `` and must be desolate for the residence of only two persons . '' 
Emily , though extremely surprised by her father 's manner , forbore to express her feelings by any question . 
said Emily . 
Emily , on hearing this , shrunk with a superstitious dread entirely new to her , and could scarcely conceal her agitation from St. Aubert . 
Emily observed the clouds of grief , mingled with a faint expression of horror , gathering on his brow ; his countenance became fixed , and , touched as it now was by the silver whiteness of the moon light , he resembled one of those marble statues of a monument , which seem to bend , in hopeless sorrow , over the ashes of the dead , shewn `` But , my dear sir , '' said Emily , anxious to dissipate his thoughts , `` you forget that repose is necessary to you . 
In a few moments he returned with his daughter , a young woman of a pleasing countenance , and Emily learned from her , what she had not before suspected , that , for their accommodation , it was necessary part of La Voisin 's family should leave their beds ; she lamented this circumstance , but Agnes , by her reply , fully proved that she inherited , at least , a share of her father 's courteous hospitality . 
`` If I am better , to-morrow , my dear , '' said St. Aubert when Emily returned to him , `` I mean to set out at an early hour , that we may rest , during the heat of the day , and will travel towards home . 
Emily , though she also desired to return , was grieved at her father 's sudden wish to do so , which she thought indicated a greater degree of indisposition than he would acknowledge . 
St. Aubert now retired to rest , and Emily to her little chamber , but not to immediate repose . 
Her thoughts returned to the late conversation , concerning the state of departed spirits ; a subject , at this time , particularly affecting to her , when she had every reason to believe , that her dear father would ere long be numbered with them . 
She leaned pensively on the little open casement , and in deep thought fixed her eyes on the heaven , whose blue unclouded concave was studded thick with stars , the worlds , perhaps , of spirits , unsphered of mortal mould . 
As her eyes wandered along the boundless æther , her thoughts rose , as before , towards the sublimity of the Deity , and to the contemplation of futurity . 
No busy note of this world interrupted the course of her mind ; the merry dance had ceased , and every cottager had retired to his home . 
Elevated and enwrapt , while her eyes were often wet with tears of sublime devotion and solemn awe , she continued at the casement , till the gloom of mid-night hung over the earth , and the planet , which La Voisin had pointed out , sunk below the woods . 
She then recollected what he had said concerning this planet , and the mysterious music ; and , as she lingered at the window , half hoping and half fearing that it would return , her mind was led to the remembrance of the extreme emotion her father had shewn on mention of the Marquis La Villeroi 's death , and of the fate of the Marchioness , and she felt strongly interested concerning the remote cause of this emotion . 
Her surprise and curiosity were indeed the greater , because she did not recollect ever to have heard him mention the name of Villeroi . 
No music , however , stole on the silence of the night , and Emily , perceiving the lateness of the hour , returned to a scene of fatigue , remembered that she was to rise early in the morning , and withdrew from the window to repose . 
Emily , called , as she had requested , at an early hour , awoke , little refreshed by sleep , for uneasy dreams had pursued her , and marred the kindest blessing of the unhappy . 
But , when she opened her casement , looked out upon the woods , bright with the morning sun , and inspired the pure air , her mind was soothed . 
The scene was filled with that cheering freshness , which seems to breathe the very spirit of health , and she heard only sweet and picturesque sounds , if such an expression may be allowed -- the matinbell of a distant convent , the faint murmur of the sea-waves , the song of birds , and the far-off low of cattle , which she saw coming slowly on between the trunks of the trees . 
Struck with the circumstances of imagery around her , she indulged the pensive tranquillity which they inspired ; and while she leaned on her window , waiting till St. Aubert should descend to breakfast , her ideas arranged themselves in the following lines : Emily now heard persons moving below in the cottage , and presently the voice of Michael , who was talking to his mules , as he led them forth from a hut adjoining . 
As she left her room , St. Aubert , who was now risen , met her at the door , apparently as little restored by sleep as herself . 
She led him down stairs to the little parlour , in which they had supped on the preceding night , where they found a neat breakfast set out , while the host and his daughter waited to bid them good morrow . 
Emily , who had observed her father with attention , and thought he looked very ill , endeavoured to persuade him to defer travelling till the afternoon ; but he seemed very anxious to be at home , and his anxiety he expressed repeatedly , and with an earnestness that was unusual with him . 
But , while he was talking with his venerable host , and thanking him for his kind attentions , Emily observed his countenance change , and , before she could reach him , he fell back in his chair . 
This request renewed all the terror which Emily had suffered on the preceding evening ; but , though scarcely able to support herself , under the sudden shock it gave her , she tried to conceal her apprehensions from St. Aubert , and gave her trembling arm to assist him to the door of his chamber . 
When he was once more in bed , he desired that Emily , who was then weeping in her own room , might be called ; and , as she came , he waved his hand for every other person to quit the apartment . 
When they were alone , he held out his hand to her , and fixed his eyes upon her countenance , with an expression so full of tenderness and grief , that all her fortitude forsook her , and she burst into an agony of tears . 
At length , he commanded his voice , `` My dear child , '' said he , trying to smile through his anguish , `` my dear Emily ! '' 
His voice faltered , while Emily , still weeping , pressed his hand close to her heart , which swelled with a convulsive sigh , but she could not look up . 
-- -- St. Aubert was interrupted ; Emily , struck by his last words , as if for the first time , with a conviction of his immediate danger , raised her head ; her tears stopped , and , gazing at him for a moment with an expression of unutterable anguish , a slight convulsion seized her , and she sunk senseless in her chair . 
When she recovered , St. Aubert was so exhausted by the scene he had witnessed , that it was many minutes before he had strength to speak ; he was , however , somewhat revived by a cordial , which Emily gave him ; and , being again alone with her , he exerted himself to tranquillize her spirits , and to offer her all the comfort of which her situation admitted . 
She threw herself into his arms , wept on his neck , and grief made her so insensible to all he said , that he ceased to offer the alleviations , which he himself could not , at this moment , feel , and mingled his silent tears with hers . 
Recalled , at length , to a sense of duty , she tried to spare her father from farther view of her suffering ; and , quitting his embrace , dried her tears , and said something , which she meant for consolation . 
`` My dear Emily , '' replied St. Aubert , `` my dear child , we must look up with humble confidence to that Being , who has protected and comforted us in every danger , and in every affliction we have known ; to whose eye every moment of our lives has been exposed ; he will not , he does not , forsake us now ; I feel his consolations in my heart . 
Nay , weep not again , my Emily . 
Emily again endeavoured to assume an air of composure ; and , in replying to what he had said , tried to sooth him with a belief , that he had not spoken in vain . 
Emily , awed by the earnest solemnity of his manner , dried her tears , that had begun again to flow , in spite of her efforts to suppress them ; and , looking eloquently at St. Aubert , bound herself to do whatever he should require by a vow , at which she shuddered , yet knew not why . 
He proceeded : `` I know you too well , my Emily , to believe , that you would break any promise , much less one thus solemnly given ; your assurance gives me peace , and the observance of it is of the utmost importance to your tranquillity . 
St. Aubert paused for breath , and Emily sat fixed in deep attention . 
Emily , though scarcely able to speak , assured him , that she did . 
`` When you return home , then , '' he added with a deep sigh -- At the mention of her return home , all the melancholy circumstances , that must attend this return , rushed upon her fancy ; she burst into convulsive grief , and St. Aubert himself , affected beyond the resistance of the fortitude which he had , at first , summoned , wept with her . 
He stopped again , and Emily , the more she endeavoured to restrain her emotion , found it the less possible to do so . 
Emily 's surprise , for a moment , overcame her grief , and she ventured to ask , why this must be ? 
Emily could make no reply to any thing he now said , but knelt at the bed-side , with her face upon the quilt , weeping over the hand she held there . 
After this conversation , the mind of St. Aubert appeared to be much more at ease ; but , exhausted by the effort of speaking , he sunk into a kind of doze , and Emily continued to watch and weep beside him , till a gentle rap at the chamber-door roused her . 
Emily would not suffer her father to be disturbed , but desired , that the priest might not leave the cottage . 
When St. Aubert awoke from this doze , his senses were confused , and it was some moments before he recovered them sufficiently to know , that it was Emily who sat beside him . 
He then moved his lips , and stretched forth his hand to her ; as she received which , she sunk back in her chair , overcome by the impression of death on his countenance . 
In a few minutes he recovered his voice , and Emily then asked , if he wished to see the confessor ; he replied , that he did ; and , when the holy father appeared , she withdrew . 
They remained alone together above half an hour ; when Emily was called in , she found St. Aubert more agitated than when she had left him , and she gazed , with a slight degree of resentment , at the friar , as the cause of this ; who , however , looked mildly and mournfully at her , and turned away . 
The old man and his daughter came ; they both wept , and knelt with Emily round the bed , while the holy father read in a solemn voice the service for the dying . 
St. Aubert lay with a serene countenance , and seemed to join fervently in the devotion , while tears often stole from beneath his closed eye-lids , and Emily 's sobs more than once interrupted the service . 
The scene , that followed between St. Aubert and Emily , affected La Voisin so much , that he quitted the chamber , and she was again left alone with her father , whose spirits seemed fainting fast , but neither his senses , or his voice , yet failed him ; and , at intervals , he employed much of these last awful moments in advising his daughter , as to her future conduct . 
`` Above all , my dear Emily , '' said he , `` do not indulge in the pride of fine feeling , the romantic error of amiable minds . 
I know you will say , -LRB- for you are young , my Emily -RRB- I know you will say , that you are contented sometimes to suffer , rather than to give up your refined sense of happiness , at others ; but , when your mind has been long harassed by vicissitude , you will be content to rest , and you will then recover from your delusion . 
I have exhausted myself , '' said St. Aubert , feebly , `` and have wearied you , my Emily ; but , on a subject so important to your future comfort , I am anxious to be perfectly understood . '' 
Emily assured him , that his advice was most precious to her , and that she would never forget it , or cease from endeavouring to profit by it . 
She is not exactly the person , to whom I would have committed my Emily , but I had no alternative , and I believe her to be upon the whole -- a good kind of woman . 
Emily assured him , that , whatever he requested she would religiously perform to the utmost of her ability . 
added she , in a voice interrupted by sighs , `` that will soon be all which remains for me ; it will be almost my only consolation to fulfil your wishes . '' 
Emily could only listen , and weep ; but the extreme composure of his manner , and the faith and hope he expressed , somewhat soothed her anguish . 
Yet , whenever she looked upon his emaciated countenance , and saw the lines of death beginning to prevail over it -- saw his sunk eyes , still bent on her , and their heavy lids pressing to a close , there was a pang in her heart , such as defied expression , though it required filial virtue , like hers , to forbear the attempt . 
He desired once more to bless her ; `` Where are you , my dear ? '' 
Emily had turned to the window , that he might not perceive her anguish ; she now understood , that his sight had failed him . 
When he had given her his blessing , and it seemed to be the last effort of expiring life , he sunk back on his pillow . 
She kissed his forehead ; the damps of death had settled there , and , forgetting her fortitude for a moment , her tears mingled with them . 
Emily was led from the chamber by La Voisin and his daughter , who did what they could to comfort her . 
The old man sat and wept with her . 
The monk , who had before appeared , returned in the evening to offer consolation to Emily , and brought a kind message from the lady abbess , inviting her to the convent . 
Emily , though she did not accept the offer , returned an answer expressive of her gratitude . 
`` In the sight of God , '' said Emily , `` my dear father now exists , as truly as he yesterday existed to me ; it is to me only that he is dead ; to God and to himself he yet lives ! '' 
The good monk left her more tranquil than she had been since St. Aubert died ; and , before she retired to her little cabin for the night , she trusted herself so far as to visit the corpse . 
All without was obscured in shade ; but Emily , turning her eyes from the massy darkness of the woods , whose waving outline appeared on the horizon , saw , on the left , that effulgent planet , which the old man had pointed out , setting over the woods . 
She remembered what he had said concerning it , and , the music now coming at intervals on the air , she unclosed the casement to listen to the strains , that soon gradually sunk to a greater distance , and tried to discover whence they came . 
The obscurity prevented her from distinguishing any object on the green platform below ; and the sounds became fainter and fainter , till they softened into silence . 
She listened , but they returned no more . 
Soon after , she observed the planet trembling between the fringed tops of the woods , and , in the next moment , sink behind them . 
Chilled with a melancholy awe , she retired once more to her bed , and , at length , forgot for a while her sorrows in sleep . 
On the following morning , she was visited by a sister of the convent , who came , with kind offices and a second invitation from the lady abbess ; and Emily , though she could not forsake the cottage , while the remains of her father were in it , consented , however painful such a visit must be , in the present state of her spirits , to pay her respects to the abbess , in the evening . 
About an hour before sun-set , La Voisin shewed her the way through the woods to the convent , which stood in a small bay of the Mediterranean , crowned by a woody amphitheatre ; and Emily , had she been less unhappy , would have admired the extensive sea view , that appeared from the green slope , in front of the edifice , and the rich shores , hung with woods and pastures , that extended on either hand . 
But her thoughts were now occupied by one sad idea , and the features of nature were to her colourless and without form . 
The bell for vespers struck , as she passed the ancient gate of the convent , and seemed the funereal note for St. Aubert . 
Little incidents affect a mind , enervated by sorrow ; Emily struggled against the sickening faintness , that came over her , and was led into the presence of the abbess , who received her with an air of maternal tenderness ; an air of such gentle solicitude and consideration , as touched her with an instantaneous gratitude ; her eyes were filled with tears , and the words she would have spoken faltered on her lips . 
The abbess led her to a seat , and sat down beside her , still holding her hand and regarding her in silence , as Emily dried her tears and attempted to speak . 
Emily 's tears flowed again , but a thousand sweet emotions mingled with them . 
The abbess suffered her to weep without interruption , and watched over her with a look of benignity , that might have characterized the countenance of a guardian angel . 
Emily , when she became tranquil , was encouraged to speak without reserve , and to mention the motive , that made her unwilling to quit the cottage , which the abbess did not oppose even by a hint ; but praised the filial piety of her conduct , and added a hope , that she would pass a few days at the convent , before she returned to La Vallée . 
But come , '' added she , observing the tears swell in Emily 's eyes , `` we will go to the chapel . '' 
Emily followed to the parlour , where the nuns were assembled , to whom the abbess committed her , saying , `` This is a daughter , for whom I have much esteem ; be sisters to her . '' 
They passed on in a train to the chapel , where the solemn devotion , with which the service was performed , elevated her mind , and brought to it the comforts of faith and resignation . 
Twilight came on , before the abbess 's kindness would suffer Emily to depart , when she left the convent , with a heart much lighter than she had entered it , and was reconducted by La Voisin through the woods , the pensive gloom of which was in unison with the temper of her mind ; and she pursued the little wild path , in musing silence , till her guide suddenly stopped , looked round , and then struck out of the path into the high grass , saying he had mistaken the road . 
He now walked on quickly , and Emily , proceeding with difficulty over the obscured and uneven ground , was left at some distance , till her voice arrested him , who seemed unwilling to stop , and still hurried on . 
`` If you are in doubt about the way , '' said Emily , `` had we not better enquire it at the chateau yonder , between the trees ? '' 
`` It is solitary enough , '' said Emily , `` but you have no banditti here . '' 
`` By whom is it inhabited , '' said Emily , `` that it is so formidable ? '' 
Emily now understood this to be the chateau , which La Voisin had formerly pointed out , as having belonged to the Marquis Villeroi , on the mention of which her father had appeared so much affected . 
Emily enquired what had occasioned this lamentable change ; but the old man was silent , and Emily , whose interest was awakened by the fear he had expressed , and above all by a recollection of her father 's agitation , repeated the question , and added , `` If you are neither afraid of the inhabitants , my good friend , nor are superstitious , how happens it , that you dread to pass near that chateau in the dark ? '' 
said Emily , with much emotion . 
-- Emily , surprised by the old man 's words , and his manner of delivering them , forbore to repeat her question ; a nearer interest , the remembrance of St. Aubert , occupied her thoughts , and she was led to recollect the music she heard on the preceding night , which she mentioned to La Voisin . 
`` You doubtless believe this music to have some connection with the chateau , '' said Emily suddenly , `` and are , therefore , superstitious . '' 
A heavy sigh followed : but Emily 's delicacy restrained the curiosity these words revived , and she enquired no further . 
On reaching the cottage , all the violence of her grief returned ; it seemed as if she had escaped its heavy pressure only while she was removed from the object of it . 
She passed immediately to the chamber , where the remains of her father were laid , and yielded to all the anguish of hopeless grief . 
La Voisin , at length , persuaded her to leave the room , and she returned to her own , where , exhausted by the sufferings of the day , she soon fell into deep sleep , and awoke considerably refreshed . 
When the dreadful hour arrived , in which the remains of St. Aubert were to be taken from her for ever , she went alone to the chamber to look upon his countenance yet once again , and La Voisin , who had waited patiently below stairs , till her despair should subside , with the respect due to grief , forbore to interrupt the indulgence of it , till surprise , at the length of her stay , and then apprehension overcame his delicacy , and he went to lead her from the chamber . 
Yet more alarmed by this silence , he opened the door , and found Emily lying senseless across the foot of the bed , near which stood the coffin . 
His calls procured assistance , and she was carried to her room , where proper applications , at length , restored her . 
During her state of insensibility , La Voisin had given directions for the coffin to be closed , and he succeeded in persuading Emily to forbear revisiting the chamber . 
She , indeed , felt herself unequal to this , and also perceived the necessity of sparing her spirits , and recollecting fortitude sufficient to bear her through the approaching scene . 
Every person , who heard the solemn chant of the anthem , and the peal of the organ , that struck up , when the body entered the church , and saw also the feeble steps , and the assumed tranquillity of Emily , gave her involuntary tears . 
She shed none , but walked , her face partly shaded by a thin black veil , between two persons , who supported her , preceded by the abbess , and followed by nuns , whose plaintive voices mellowed the swelling harmony of the dirge . 
Emily drew the veil entirely over her face , and , in a momentary pause , between the anthem and the rest of the service , her sobs were distinctly audible . 
The holy father began the service , and Emily again commanded her feelings , till the coffin was let down , and she heard the earth rattle on its lid . 
Then , as she shuddered , a groan burst from her heart , and she leaned for support on the person who stood next to her . 
In a few moments she recovered ; and , when she heard those affecting and sublime words : `` His body is buried in peace , and his soul returns to Him that gave it , '' her anguish softened into tears . 
The abbess led her from the church into her own parlour , and there administered all the consolations , that religion and gentle sympathy can give . 
Emily struggled against the pressure of grief ; but the abbess , observing her attentively , ordered a bed to be prepared , and recommended her to retire to repose . 
She also kindly claimed her promise to remain a few days at the convent , and Emily , who had no wish to return to the cottage , the scene of all her sufferings , had leisure , now that no immediate care pressed upon her attention , to feel the indisposition , which disabled her from immediately travelling . 
Meanwhile , the maternal kindness of the abbess , and the gentle attentions of the nuns did all , that was possible , towards soothing her spirits and restoring her health . 
But the latter was too deeply wounded , through the medium of her mind , to be quickly revived . 
She lingered for some weeks at the convent , under the influence of a slow fever , wishing to return home , yet unable to go thither ; often even reluctant to leave the spot where her father 's relics were deposited , and sometimes soothing herself with the consideration , that , if she died here , her remains would repose beside those of St. Aubert . 
However Emily might prefer La Vallée to Tholouse , she could not be insensible of the indecorous and unkind conduct of her aunt , in suffering her to return thither , where she had no longer a relation to console and protect her ; a conduct , which was the more culpable , since St. Aubert had appointed Madame Cheron the guardian of his orphan daughter . 
Madame Cheron 's servant made the attendance of the good La Voisin unnecessary ; and Emily , who felt sensibly her obligations to him , for all his kind attention to her late father , as well as to herself , was glad to spare him a long , and what , at his time of life , must have been a troublesome journey . 
During her stay at the convent , the peace and sanctity that reigned within , the tranquil beauty of the scenery without , and the delicate attentions of the abbess and the nuns , were circumstances so soothing to her mind , that they almost tempted her to leave a world , where she had lost her dearest friends , and devote herself to the cloister , in a spot , rendered sacred to her by containing the tomb of St. Aubert . 
It was several days after the arrival of Madame Cheron 's servant before Emily was sufficiently recovered to undertake the journey to La Vallée . 
On the evening preceding her departure , she went to the cottage to take leave of La Voisin and his family , and to make them a return for their kindness . 
The old man she found sitting on a bench at his door , between his daughter , and his son-in-law , who was just returned from his daily labour , and who was playing upon a pipe , that , in tone , resembled an oboe . 
Emily looked again at the venerable old man , and at the cottage ; the memory of her father rose with full force upon her mind , and she hastily stepped forward , afraid to trust herself with a longer pause . 
She took an affectionate and affecting leave of La Voisin and his family ; he seemed to love her as his daughter , and shed tears ; Emily shed many . 
She avoided going into the cottage , since she knew it would revive emotions , such as she could not now endure . 
One painful scene yet awaited her , for she determined to visit again her father 's grave ; and that she might not be interrupted , or observed in the indulgence of her melancholy tenderness , she deferred her visit , till every inhabitant of the convent , except the nun who promised to bring her the key of the church , should be retired to rest . 
Emily remained in her chamber , till she heard the convent bell strike twelve , when the nun came , as she had appointed , with the key of a private door , that opened into the church , and they descended together the narrow winding stair-case , that led thither . 
The nun offered to accompany Emily to the grave , adding , `` It is melancholy to go alone at this hour ; '' but the former , thanking her for the consideration , could not consent to have any witness of her sorrow ; and the sister , having unlocked the door , gave her the lamp . 
`` You will remember , sister , '' said she , `` that in the east aisle , which you must pass , is a newly opened grave ; hold the light to the ground , that you may not stumble over the loose earth . '' 
Emily , thanking her again , took the lamp , and , stepping into the church , sister Mariette departed . 
But Emily paused a moment at the door ; a sudden fear came over her , and she returned to the foot of the stair-case , where , as she heard the steps of the nun ascending , and , while she held up the lamp , saw her black veil waving over the spiral balusters , she was tempted to call her back . 
While she hesitated , the veil disappeared , and , in the next moment , ashamed of her fears , she returned to the church . 
The cold air of the aisles chilled her , and their deep silence and extent , feebly shone upon by the moon-light , that streamed through a distant gothic window , would at any other time have awed her into superstition ; now , grief occupied all her attention . 
She scarcely heard the whispering echoes of her own steps , or thought of the open grave , till she found herself almost on its brink . 
A friar of the convent had been buried there on the preceding evening , and , as she had sat alone in her chamber at twilight , she heard , at distance , the monks chanting the requiem for his soul . 
This brought freshly to her memory the circumstances of her father 's death ; and , as the voices , mingling with a low querulous peal of the organ , swelled faintly , gloomy and affecting visions had arisen upon her mind . 
Now she remembered them , and , turning aside to avoid the broken ground , these recollections made her pass on with quicker steps to the grave of St.Aubert , when in the moonlight , that fell athwart a remote part of the aisle , she thought she saw a shadow gliding between the pillars . 
She stopped to listen , and , not hearing any footstep , believed that her fancy had deceived her , and , no longer apprehensive of being observed , proceeded . 
St. Aubert was buried beneath a plain marble , bearing little more than his name and the date of his birth and death , near the foot of the stately monument of the Villerois . 
Emily remained at his grave , till a chime , that called the monks to early prayers , warned her to retire ; then , she wept over it a last farewel , and forced herself from the spot . 
After this hour of melancholy indulgence , she was refreshed by a deeper sleep , than she had experienced for a long time , and , on awakening , her mind was more tranquil and resigned , than it had been since St. Aubert 's death . 
The abbess repeated many kind assurances of regard at their parting , and pressed her to return , if ever she should find her condition elsewhere unpleasant ; many of the nuns also expressed unaffected regret at her departure , and Emily left the convent with many tears , and followed by sincere wishes for her happiness . 
She had travelled several leagues , before the scenes of the country , through which she passed , had power to rouse her for a moment from the deep melancholy , into which she was sunk , and , when they did , it was only to remind her , that , on her last view of them , St. Aubert was at her side , and to call up to her remembrance the remarks he had delivered on similar scenery . 
Towards the close of this day , Emily came within view of the plains in the neighbourhood of La Vallée , and the well-known objects of former times began to press upon her notice , and with them recollections , that awakened all her tenderness and grief . 
Often , while she looked through her tears upon the wild grandeur of the Pyrenées , now varied with the rich lights and shadows of evening , she remembered , that , when last she saw them , her father partook with her of the pleasure they inspired . 
Suddenly some scene , which he had particularly pointed out to her , would present itself , and the sick languor of despair would steal upon her heart . 
she would exclaim , `` there are the very cliffs , there the wood of pines , which he looked at with such delight , as we passed this road together for the last time . 
As she drew near the chateau , these melancholy memorials of past times multiplied . 
This was an object , which called for fortitude , not for tears ; Emily dried hers , and prepared to meet with calmness the trying moment of her return to that home , where there was no longer a parent to welcome her . 
`` Yes , '' said she , `` let me not forget the lessons he has taught me ! 
Emily could not suppress a heavy sigh . 
`` This , too , was his favourite hour , '' said she , as she gazed upon the long evening shadows , stretched athwart the landscape . 
Again she resisted the pressure of sorrow , till her ear caught the gay melody of the dance , which she had so often listened to , as she walked with St. Aubert , on the margin of the Garonne , when all her fortitude forsook her , and she continued to weep , till the carriage stopped at the little gate , that opened upon what was now her own territory . 
She raised her eyes on the sudden stopping of the carriage , and saw her father 's old housekeeper coming to open the gate . 
Manchon also came running , and barking before her ; and , when his young mistress alighted , fawned , and played round her , gasping with joy . '' 
said Theresa , and paused , and looked as if she would have offered something of condolement to Emily , whose tears now prevented reply . 
The dog still fawned and ran round her , and then flew towards the carriage , with a short quick bark . 
Emily sobbed aloud ; and , on looking towards the carriage , which still stood with the door open , saw the animal spring into it , and instantly leap out , and then with his nose on the ground run round the horses . 
The dog now came running to Emily , then returned to the carriage , and then back again to her , whining and discontented . 
Emily gave her hand to the old servant , and tried to restrain her grief , while she made some kind enquiries concerning her health . 
But she still lingered in the walk which led to the chateau , for within was no person to meet her with the kiss of affection ; her own heart no longer palpitated with impatient joy to meet again the well-known smile , and she dreaded to see objects , which would recall the full remembrance of her former happiness . 
She moved slowly towards the door , paused , went on , and paused again . 
Trembling to enter it , yet blaming herself for delaying what she could not avoid , she , at length , passed into the hall ; crossed it with a hurried step , as if afraid to look round , and opened the door of that room , which she was wont to call her own . 
The chairs , the tables , every article of furniture , so familiar to her in happier times , spoke eloquently to her heart . 
She seated herself , without immediately observing it , in a window , which opened upon the garden , and where St. Aubert had often sat with her , watching the sun retire from the rich and extensive prospect , that appeared beyond the groves . 
Emily hid her face with her handkerchief , and waved her hand . 
Emily took the handkerchief from her face , and raised her eyes full of tears towards heaven ; soon after she dried them , and , in a calm , but tremulous voice , began to enquire concerning some of her late father 's pensioners . 
The sight of this poor old woman would have been too much for Emily , and she begged Theresa would go and tell her , that she was too ill to see any person that night . 
Emily sat for some time , given up to sorrow . 
Not an object , on which her eye glanced , but awakened some remembrance , that led immediately to the subject of her grief . 
Her favourite plants , which St. Aubert had taught her to nurse ; the little drawings , that adorned the room , which his taste had instructed her to execute ; the books , that he had selected for her use , and which they had read together ; her musical instruments , whose founds he loved so well , and which he sometimes awakened himself -- every object gave new force to sorrow . 
Emily , wandering on , came to St. Aubert 's favourite plane-tree , where so often , at this hour , they had sat beneath the shade together , and with her dear mother so often had conversed on the subject of a future state . 
Emily , overcome by these recollections , left the plane-tree , and , as she leaned pensively on the wall of the terrace , she observed a group of peasants dancing gaily on the banks of the Garonne , which spread in broad expanse below , and reflected the evening light . 
What a contrast they formed to the desolate , unhappy Emily ! 
Emily , having looked for a moment on this sprightly band , turned away , unable to bear the remembrances it excited ; but where , alas ! 
could she turn , and not meet new objects to give acuteness to grief ? 
As she walked slowly towards the house , she was met by Theresa . 
`` Dear ma'amselle , '' said she , `` I have been seeking you up and down this half hour , and was afraid some accident had happened to you . 
`` Pray , Theresa , cease , '' said Emily , wishing to interrupt this ill-judged , but well-meaning harangue ; Theresa 's loquacity , however , was not to be silenced so easily . 
During this speech , Emily had walked silently into the chateau , and Theresa lighted her across the hall into the common sitting parlour , where she had laid the cloth , with one solitary knife and fork , for supper . 
Emily was in the room before she perceived that it was not her own apartment , but she checked the emotion which inclined her to leave it , and seated herself quietly by the little supper table . 
Her father 's hat hung upon the opposite wall ; while she gazed at it , a faintness came over her . 
Theresa looked at her , and then at the object , on which her eyes were settled , and went to remove it ; but Emily waved her hand -- `` No , '' said she , `` let it remain . 
`` I can not take it , '' replied Emily , `` I will go to my room , and try to sleep . 
said Emily , in a tender voice , while she felt her poor heart warmed for a moment by a ray of sympathy . 
Emily , some time after her return to La Vallée , received letters from her aunt , Madame Cheron , in which , after some common-place condolement and advice , she invited her to Tholouse , and added , that , as her late brother had entrusted Emily 's education to her , she should consider herself bound to overlook her conduct . 
Emily , at this time , wished only to remain at La Vallée , in the scenes of her early happiness , now rendered infinitely dear to her , as the late residence of those , whom she had lost for ever , where she could weep unobserved , retrace their steps , and remember each minute particular of their manners . 
But she was equally anxious to avoid the displeasure of Madame Cheron . 
Though her affection would not suffer her to question , even a moment , the propriety of St. Aubert 's conduct in appointing Madame for her guardian , she was sensible , that this step had made her happiness depend , in a great degree , on the humour of her aunt . 
M. Barreaux 's admiration of her father endeared him extremely to Emily , whose heart found almost its first relief in conversing of her parents , with a man , whom she so much revered , and who , though with such an ungracious appearance , possessed so much goodness of heart and delicacy of mind . 
Several weeks passed away in quiet retirement , and Emily 's affliction began to soften into melancholy . 
She could bear to read the books she had before read with her father ; to sit in his chair in the library -- to watch the flowers his hand had planted -- to awaken the tones of that instrument his fingers had pressed , and sometimes even to play his favourite air . 
When her mind had recovered from the first shock of affliction , perceiving the danger of yielding to indolence , and that activity alone could restore its tone , she scrupulously endeavoured to pass all her hours in employment . 
And it was now that she understood the full value of the education she had received from St. Aubert , for in cultivating her understanding he had secured her an asylum from indolence , without recourse to dissipation , and rich and varied amusement and information , independent of the society , from which her situation secluded her . 
Madame Cheron returned no answer to Emily 's letter , who began to hope , that she should be permitted to remain some time longer in her retirement , and her mind had now so far recovered its strength , that she ventured to view the scenes , which most powerfully recalled the images of past times . 
Among these was the fishing-house ; and , to indulge still more the affectionate melancholy of the visit , she took thither her lute , that she might again hear there the tones , to which St. Aubert and her mother had so often delighted to listen . 
Now , when Emily again entered the woods , that surrounded the building , they awakened so forcibly the memory of former times , that her resolution yielded for a moment to excess of grief . 
She stopped , leaned for support against a tree , and wept for some minutes , before she had recovered herself sufficiently to proceed . 
In the next moment , a door opened , and a stranger appeared , who stopped on perceiving Emily , and then began to apologize for his intrusion . 
But Emily , at the sound of his voice , lost her fear in a stronger emotion ; its tones were familiar to her ear , and , though she could not readily distinguish through the dusk the features of the person who spoke , she felt a remembrance too strong to be distrusted . 
He repeated his apology , and Emily then said something in reply , when the stranger , eagerly advancing , exclaimed , `` Good God ! 
`` It is indeed , '' said Emily , who was confirmed in her first conjecture , for she now distinguished the countenance of Valancourt , lighted up with still more than its usual animation . 
A thousand painful recollections crowded to her mind , and the effort , which she made to support herself , only served to increase her agitation . 
Valancourt , meanwhile , having enquired anxiously after her health , and expressed his hopes , that M. St. Aubert had found benefit from travelling , learned from the flood of tears , which she could no longer repress , the fatal truth . 
He led her to a seat , and sat down by her , while Emily continued to weep , and Valancourt to hold the hand , which she was unconscious he had taken , till it was wet with the tears , which grief for St. Aubert and sympathy for herself had called forth . 
Emily could still answer only by tears , till she rose , and begged they might leave the melancholy spot , when Valancourt , though he saw her feebleness , could not offer to detain her , but took her arm within his , and led her from the fishing-house . 
They walked silently through the woods , Valancourt anxious to know , yet fearing to ask any particulars concerning St. Aubert ; and Emily too much distressed to converse . 
After some time , however , she acquired fortitude enough to speak of her father , and to give a brief account of the manner of his death ; during which recital Valancourt 's countenance betrayed strong emotion , and , when he heard that St. Aubert had died on the road , and that Emily had been left among strangers , he pressed her hand between his , and involuntarily exclaimed , `` Why was I not there ! '' 
but in the next moment recollected himself , for he immediately returned to the mention of her father ; till , perceiving that her spirits were exhausted , he gradually changed the subject , and spoke of himself . 
Emily thus learned , that , after they had parted , he had wandered , for some time , along the shores of the Mediterranean , and had then returned through Languedoc into Gascony , which was his native province , and where he usually resided . 
When he had concluded his little narrative , he sunk into a silence , which Emily was not disposed to interrupt , and it continued , till they reached the gate of the chateau , when he stopped , as if he had known this to be the limit of his walk . 
Here , saying , that it was his intention to return to Estuviere on the following day , he asked her if she would permit him to take leave of her in the morning ; and Emily , perceiving that she could not reject an ordinary civility , without expressing by her refusal an expectation of something more , was compelled to answer , that she should be at home . 
She passed a melancholy evening , during which the retrospect of all that had happened , since she had seen Valancourt , would rise to her imagination ; and the scene of her father 's death appeared in tints as fresh , as if it had passed on the preceding day . 
She remembered particularly the earnest and solemn manner , in which he had required her to destroy the manuscript papers , and , awakening from the lethargy , in which sorrow had held her , she was shocked to think she had not yet obeyed him , and determined , that another day should not reproach her with the neglect . 
On the next morning , Emily ordered a fire to be lighted in the stove of the chamber , where St. Aubert used to sleep ; and , as soon as she had breakfasted , went thither to burn the papers . 
The solitary life , which Emily had led of late , and the melancholy subjects , on which she had suffered her thoughts to dwell , had rendered her at times sensible to the `` thick-coming fancies '' of a mind greatly enervated . 
It was lamentable , that her excellent understanding should have yielded , even for a moment , to the reveries of superstition , or rather to those starts of imagination , which deceive the senses into what can be called nothing less than momentary madness . 
Instances of this temporary failure of mind had more than once occurred since her return home ; particularly when , wandering through this lonely mansion in the evening twilight , she had been alarmed by appearances , which would have been unseen in her more cheerful days . 
To this infirm state of her nerves may be attributed what she imagined , when , her eyes glancing a second time on the arm-chair , which stood in an obscure part of the closet , the countenance of her dead father appeared there . 
Emily stood fixed for a moment to the floor , after which she left the closet . 
Her spirits , however , soon returned ; she reproached herself with the weakness of thus suffering interruption in an act of serious importance , and again opened the door . 
Emily still gazed on the countenance , examining its features , but she knew not where to detect the charm that captivated her attention , and inspired sentiments of such love and pity . 
Emily was roused from the musing mood into which the picture had thrown her , by the closing of the garden gate ; and , on turning her eyes to the window , she saw Valancourt coming towards the chateau . 
Her spirits agitated by the subjects that had lately occupied her mind , she felt unprepared to see him , and remained a few moments in the chamber to recover herself . 
When she met him in the parlour , she was struck with the change that appeared in his air and countenance since they had parted in Rousillon , which twilight and the distress she suffered on the preceding evening had prevented her from observing . 
But dejection and languor disappeared , for a moment , in the smile that now enlightened his countenance , on perceiving her . 
Emily smiled faintly , and , anxious to say something , asked if he had been long in Gascony . 
A tear came to Emily 's eye , as Valancourt said this , which he observed ; and , anxious to draw off her attention from the remembrance that had occasioned it , as well as shocked at his own thoughtlessness , he began to speak on other subjects ; expressing his admiration of the chateau , and its prospects . 
Emily , who felt somewhat embarrassed how to support a conversation , was glad of such an opportunity to continue it on indifferent topics . 
Emily and Valancourt talked of the scenes they had passed among the Pyrenean Alps ; as he spoke of which there was often a tremulous tenderness in his voice , and sometimes he expatiated on them with all the fire of genius , sometimes would appear scarcely conscious of the topic , though he continued to speak . 
This subject recalled forcibly to Emily the idea of her father , whose image appeared in every landscape , which Valancourt particularized , whose remarks dwelt upon her memory , and whose enthusiasm still glowed in her heart . 
Her silence , at length , reminded Valancourt how nearly his conversation approached to the occasion of her grief , and he changed the subject , though for one scarcely less affecting to Emily . 
When he admired the grandeur of the plane-tree , that spread its wide branches over the terrace , and under whose shade they now sat , she remembered how often she had sat thus with St. Aubert , and heard him express the same admiration . 
He rose , and leaned on the wall of the terrace , from which , in a few moments , he returned to his seat , then rose again , and appeared to be greatly agitated ; while Emily found her spirits so much depressed , that several of her attempts to renew the conversation were ineffectual . 
Emily 's emotion would not suffer her to reply ; and Valancourt , who now ventured to look up , observing her countenance change , expected to see her faint , and made an involuntary effort to support her , which recalled Emily to a sense of her situation , and to an exertion of her spirits . 
Valancourt did not appear to notice her indisposition , but , when he spoke again , his voice told the tenderest love . 
Emily made another effort to overcome the confusion of her thoughts , and to speak . 
She feared to trust the preference her heart acknowledged towards Valancourt , and to give him any encouragement for hope , on so short an acquaintance . 
For though in this narrow period she had observed much that was admirable in his taste and disposition , and though these observations had been sanctioned by the opinion of her father , they were not sufficient testimonies of his general worth to determine her upon a subject so infinitely important to her future happiness as that , which now solicited her attention . 
Yet , though the thought of dismissing Valancourt was so very painful to her , that she could scarcely endure to pause upon it , the consciousness of this made her fear the partiality of her judgment , and hesitate still more to encourage that suit , for which her own heart too tenderly pleaded . 
The family of Valancourt , if not his circumstances , had been known to her father , and known to be unexceptionable . 
Of his circumstances , Valancourt himself hinted as far as delicacy would permit , when he said he had at present little else to offer but an heart , that adored her . 
He had solicited only for a distant hope , and she could not resolve to forbid , though she scarcely dared to permit it ; at length , she acquired courage to say , that she must think herself honoured by the good opinion of any person , whom her father had esteemed . 
Emily , after a moment 's silence , said , `` I will be ingenuous with you , for I know you will understand , and allow for my situation ; you will consider it as a proof of my -- my esteem that I am so . 
Emily was again confused , and again hesitated what to reply ; she felt most acutely the difficulty -- the forlornness of her situation , which did not allow her a single relative , or friend , to whom she could turn for even a look , that might support and guide her in the present embarrassing circumstances . 
Madame Cheron , who was her only relative , and ought to have been this friend , was either occupied by her own amusements , or so resentful of the reluctance her niece had shewn to quit La Vallée , that she seemed totally to have abandoned her . 
I see , '' said Valancourt , after a long pause , during which Emily had begun , and left unfinished two -LSB- or -RSB- three sentences , `` I see that I have nothing to hope ; my fears were too just , you think me unworthy of your esteem . 
There was an expression of despair on his countenance , that affected Emily . 
The pleadings of her heart overcame , in some degree , her extreme timidity , and , when he resumed his seat , she said , in an accent that betrayed her tenderness , `` You do both yourself and me injustice when you say I think you unworthy of my esteem ; I will acknowledge that you have long possessed it , and -- and -- '' Valancourt waited impatiently for the conclusion of the sentence , but the words died on her lips . 
Her eyes , however , reflected all the emotions of her heart . 
`` O Emily ! '' 
he exclaimed , `` my own Emily -- teach me to sustain this moment ! 
He pressed her hand to his lips , it was cold and trembling ; and , raising his eyes , he saw the paleness of her countenance . 
Tears came to her relief , and Valancourt watched in anxious silence over her . 
In a few moments , she recovered herself , and smiling faintly through her tears , said , `` Can you excuse this weakness ? 
Emily enquired how long Valancourt had been in the neighbourhood . 
`` My family will be happy to see any friend of my dear father , '' said Emily , Valancourt kissed her hand , and still lingered , unable to depart , while Emily sat silently with her eyes bent on the ground ; and Valancourt , as he gazed on her , considered that it would soon be impossible for him to recall , even to his memory , the exact resemblance of the beautiful countenance he then beheld ; at this moment an hasty footstep approached from behind the plane-tree , and , turning her eyes , Emily saw Madame Cheron . 
She felt a blush steal upon her cheek , and her frame trembled with the emotion of her mind ; but she instantly rose to meet her visitor . 
A look of dignified displeasure , with which Emily regarded Madame Cheron , while she spoke , would have touched almost any other heart : she made no other reply , but introduced Valancourt , who could scarcely stifle the resentment he felt , and whose bow Madame Cheron returned with a slight curtesy , and a look of supercilious examination . 
After a few moments he took leave of Emily , in a manner , that hastily expressed his pain both at his own departure , and at leaving her to the society of Madame Cheron . 
said her aunt , in an accent , which equally implied inquisitiveness and censure . 
Emily , extremely shocked at this coarse speech , attempted to interrupt it ; but Madame Cheron would proceed , with all the self-importance of a person , to whom power is new . 
Emily made no attempt to interrupt Madame Cheron a second time , grief and the pride of conscious innocence kept her silent , till her aunt said , `` I am now come to take you with me to Thoulouse ; I am sorry to find , that your poor father died , after all , in such indifferent circumstances ; however , I shall take you home with me . 
`` Nor has he done so , I hope , madam , '' said Emily calmly , `` nor did his pecuniary misfortunes arise from that noble generosity , which always distinguished him . 
Emily could no longer endure these cruel indignities . 
`` It was a just one , madam , '' said she ; `` and now , indeed , I feel more than ever the value of the retirement I then solicited ; and , if the purport of your visit is only to add insult to the sorrows of your brother 's child , she could well have spared it . '' 
`` I am sure , madam , '' said Emily mildly , and endeavouring to restrain her tears , `` I am sure my father did not mean it should be such . 
Emily interrupted her , to beg she would explain what was the impropriety she alluded to . 
why that of receiving the visits of a lover unknown to your family , '' replied Madame Cheron , not considering the impropriety of which she had herself been guilty , in exposing her niece to the possibility of conduct so erroneous . 
A faint blush passed over Emily 's countenance ; pride and anxiety struggled in her breast ; and , till she recollected , that appearances did , in some degree , justify her aunt 's suspicions , she could not resolve to humble herself so far as to enter into the defence of a conduct , which had been so innocent and undesigning on her part . 
She mentioned the manner of Valancourt 's introduction to her father ; the circumstance of his receiving the pistol-shot , and of their afterwards travelling together ; with the accidental way , in which she had met him , on the preceding evening . 
She owned he had declared a partiality for her , and that he had asked permission to address her family . 
`` These he must himself explain , madam , '' replied Emily . 
She then proceeded to mention what she knew concerning it . 
`` O , then , this it seems is a younger brother , '' exclaimed her aunt , `` and of course a beggar . 
Emily , desirous of concluding the conversation , enquired if her aunt would accept some refreshment , and Madame Cheron accompanied her to the chateau , but without desisting from a topic , which she discussed with so much complacency to herself , and severity to her niece . 
`` I am sorry to perceive , niece , '' said she , in allusion to somewhat that Emily had said , concerning physiognomy , `` that you have a great many of your father 's prejudices , and among them are those sudden predilections for people from their looks . 
Emily checked the tears , that trembled in her eyes , while she said , `` When my conduct shall deserve this severity , madam , you will do well to exercise it ; till then justice , if not tenderness , should surely restrain it . 
The last words were almost stifled by her emotions , and she burst into tears . 
Madame Cheron , more offended by the reproof , which Emily 's words conveyed , than touched by the sorrow they expressed , said nothing , that might soften her grief ; but , notwithstanding an apparent reluctance to receive her niece , she desired her company . 
The love of sway was her ruling passion , and she knew it would be highly gratified by taking into her house a young orphan , who had no appeal from her decisions , and on whom she could exercise without controul the capricious humour of the moment . 
On entering the chateau , Madame Cheron expressed a desire , that she would put up what she thought necessary to take to Tholouse , as she meant to set off immediately . 
Emily now tried to persuade her to defer the journey , at least , till the next day , and , at length , with much difficulty , prevailed . 
The day passed in the exercise of petty tyranny on the part of Madame Cheron , and in mournful regret and melancholy anticipation on that of Emily , who , when her aunt retired to her apartment for the night , went to take leave of every other room in this her dear native home , which she was now quitting for she knew not how long , and for a world , to which she was wholly a stranger . 
She could not conquer a presentiment , which frequently occurred to her , this night -- that she should never more return to La Vallée . 
Having passed a considerable time in what had been her father 's study , having selected some of his favourite authors , to put up with her clothes , and shed many tears , as she wiped the dust from their covers , she seated herself in his chair before the reading desk , and sat lost in melancholy reflection , till Theresa opened the door to examine , as was her custom before she went to bed , if all was safe . 
Emily made no reply to this remark ; the sorrow Theresa proceeded to express at her departure affected her , but she found some comfort in the simple affection of this poor old servant , to whom she gave such directions as might best conduce to her comfort , during her own absence . 
Having dismissed Theresa to bed , Emily wandered through every lonely apartment of the chateau , lingering long in what had been her father 's bed-room , indulging melancholy , yet not unpleasing , emotions , and , having often returned within the door to take another look at it , she withdrew to her own chamber . 
From her window she gazed upon the garden below , shewn faintly by the moon rising over the tops of the palm-trees , and , at length , the calm beauty of the night increased a desire of indulging the mournful sweetness of bidding farewel to the beloved shades of her childhood , till she was tempted to descend . 
Throwing over her the light veil , in which she usually walked , she silently passed into the garden , and , hastening towards the distant groves , was glad to breathe once more the air of liberty , and to sigh unobserved . 
The deep repose of the scene , the rich scents , that floated on the breeze , the grandeur of the wide horizon and of the clear blue arch , soothed and gradually elevated her mind to that sublime complacency , which renders the vexations of this world so insignificant and mean in our eyes , that we wonder they have had power for a moment to disturb us . 
Emily forgot Madame Cheron and all the circumstances of her conduct , while her thoughts ascended to the contemplation of those unnumbered worlds , that lie scattered in the depths of æther , thousands of them hid from human eyes , and almost beyond the flight of human fancy . 
As her imagination soared through the regions of space , and aspired to that Great First Cause , which pervades and governs all being , the idea of her father scarcely ever left her ; but it was a pleasing idea , since she resigned him to God in the full confidence of a pure and holy faith . 
She pursued her way through the groves to the terrace , often pausing as memory awakened the pang of affection , and as reason anticipated the exile , into which she was going . 
Emily long watched the playing lustre , listened to the soothing murmur of the current , and the yet lighter sounds of the air , as it stirred , at intervals , the lofty palm-trees . 
`` How delightful is the sweet breath of these groves , '' said she . 
Then drying her tears and looking up , her thoughts rose again to the sublime subject she had contemplated ; the same divine complacency stole over her heart , and , hushing its throbs , inspired hope and confidence and resignation to the will of the Deity , whose works filled her mind with adoration . 
Emily gazed long on the plane-tree , and then seated herself , for the last time , on the bench under its shade , where she had so often sat with her parents , and where , only a few hours before , she had conversed with Valancourt , at the remembrance of whom , thus revived , a mingled sensation of esteem , tenderness and anxiety rose in her breast . 
With this remembrance occurred a recollection of his late confession -- that he had often wandered near her habitation in the night , having even passed the boundary of the garden , and it immediately occurred to her , that he might be at this moment in the grounds . 
The fear of meeting him , particularly after the declaration he had made , and of incurring a censure , which her aunt might so reasonably bestow , if it was known , that she was met by her lover , at this hour , made her instantly leave her beloved plane-tree , and walk towards the chateau . 
She cast an anxious eye around , and often stopped for a moment to examine the shadowy scene before she ventured to proceed , but she passed on without perceiving any person , till , having reached a clump of almond trees , not far from the house , she rested to take a retrospect of the garden , and to sigh forth another adieu . 
As her eyes wandered over the landscape she thought she perceived a person emerge from the groves , and pass slowly along a moon-light alley that led between them ; but the distance , and the imperfect light would not suffer her to judge with any degree of certainty whether this was fancy or reality . 
She continued to gaze for some time on the spot , till on the dead stillness of the air she heard a sudden sound , and in the next instant fancied she distinguished footsteps near her . 
Wasting not another moment in conjecture , she hurried to the chateau , and , having reached it , retired to her chamber , where , as she closed her window she looked upon the garden , and then again thought she distinguished a figure , gliding between the almond trees she had just left . 
She immediately withdrew from the casement , and , though much agitated , sought in sleep the refreshment of a short oblivion . 
At an early hour , the carriage , which was to take Emily and Madame Cheron to Tholouse , appeared at the door of the chateau , and Madame was already in the breakfast-room , when her niece entered it . 
The repast was silent and melancholy on the part of Emily ; and Madame Cheron , whose vanity was piqued on observing her dejection , reproved her in a manner that did not contribute to remove it . 
It was with much reluctance , that Emily 's request to take with her the dog , which had been a favourite of her father , was granted . 
Her aunt , impatient to be gone , ordered the carriage to draw up ; and , while she passed to the hall door , Emily gave another look into the library , and another farewell glance over the garden , and then followed . 
said she , while Emily gave her hand in silence , and could answer only with a pressure of her hand , and a forced smile . 
At the gate , which led out of the grounds , several of her father 's pensioners were assembled to bid her farewell , to whom she would have spoken , if her aunt would have suffered the driver to stop ; and , having distributed to them almost all the money she had about her , she sunk back in the carriage , yielding to the melancholy of her heart . 
Soon after , she caught , between the steep banks of the road , another view of the chateau , peeping from among the high trees , and surrounded by green slopes and tusted groves , the Garonne winding its way beneath their shades sometimes lost among the vineyards , and then rising in greater majesty in the distant pastures . 
The towering precipices of the Pyrenées , that rose to the south , gave Emily a thousand interesting recollections of her late journey ; and these objects of her former enthusiastic admiration , now excited only sorrow and regret . 
Having gazed on the chateau and its lovely scenery , till the banks again closed upon them , her mind became too much occupied by mournful reflections ; to permit her to attend to the conversation , which Madame Cheron had begun on some trivial topic , so that they soon travelled in profound silence . 
Valancourt , mean while , was returned to Estuviere , his heart occupied with the image of Emily ; sometimes indulging in reveries of future happiness , but more frequently shrinking with dread of the opposition he might encounter from her family . 
He was the younger son of an ancient family of Gascony ; and , having lost his parents at an early period of his life , the care of his education and of his small portion had devolved to his brother , the Count de Duvarney , his senior by nearly twenty years . 
Valancourt had been educated in all the accomplishments of his age , and had an ardour of spirit , and a certain grandeur of mind , that gave him particular excellence in the exercises then thought heroic . 
His little fortune had been diminished by the necessary expences of his education ; but M. La Valancourt , the elder , seemed to think , that his genius and accomplishments would amply supply the deficiency of his inheritance . 
He had now obtained leave of absence from his regiment when he made the excursion into the Pyrenées , which was the means of introducing him to St. Aubert ; and , as this permission was nearly expired , he was the more anxious to declare himself to Emily 's family , from whom he reasonably apprehended opposition , since his fortune , though , with a moderate addition from hers , it would be sufficient to support them , would not satisfy the views , either of vanity , or ambition . 
Valancourt was not without the latter , but he saw golden visions of promotion in the army ; and believed , that with Emily he could , in the mean time , be delighted to live within the limits of his humble income . 
His thoughts were now occupied in considering the means of making himself known to her family , to whom , however , he had yet no address , for he was entirely ignorant of Emily 's precipitate departure from La Vallée , of whom he hoped to obtain it . 
Meanwhile , the travellers pursued their journey ; Emily making frequent efforts to appear chearful , and too often relapsing into silence and dejection . 
Madame Cheron , attributing her melancholy solely to the circumstance of her being removed to a distance from her lover , and believing , that the sorrow , which her niece still expressed for the loss of St. Aubert , proceeded partly from an affectation of sensibility , endeavoured to make it appear ridiculous to her , that such deep regret should continue to be felt so long after the period usually allowed for grief . 
At length , these unpleasant lectures were interrupted by the arrival of the travellers at Tholouse ; and Emily , who had not been there for many years , and had only a very faint recollection of it , was surprised at the ostentatious style exhibited in her aunt 's house and furniture ; the more so , perhaps , because it was so totally different from the modest elegance , to which she had been accustomed . 
She followed Madame Cheron through a large hall , where several servants in rich liveries appeared , to a kind of saloon , fitted up with more shew than taste ; and her aunt , complaining of fatigue , ordered supper immediately . 
`` I am glad to find myself in my own house again , '' said she , throwing herself on a large settee , `` and to have my own people about me . 
Emily suppressed a starting tear , and tried to smile away the expression of an oppressed heart ; she was thinking of her home , and felt too sensibly the arrogance and ostentatious vanity of Madame Cheron 's conversation . 
said she to herself ; and then the conviction that she was so , warming her heart with something like kindness towards her , she felt anxious to soften the harsh impression her mind had received of her aunt 's character , and to shew a willingness to oblige her . 
The effort did not entirely fail ; she listened with apparent chearfulness , while Madame Cheron expatiated on the splendour of her house , told of the numerous parties she entertained , and what she should expect of Emily , whose diffidence assumed the air of a reserve , which her aunt , believing it to be that of pride and ignorance united , now took occasion to reprehend . 
She knew nothing of the conduct of a mind , that fears to trust its own powers ; which , possessing a nice judgment , and inclining to believe , that every other person perceives still more critically , fears to commit itself to censure , and seeks shelter in the obscurity of silence . 
Emily had frequently blushed at the fearless manners , which she had seen admired , and the brilliant nothings , which she had heard applauded ; yet this applause , so far from encouraging her to imitate the conduct that had won it , rather made her shrink into the reserve , that would protect her from such absurdity . 
Madame Cheron looked on her niece 's diffidence with a feeling very near to contempt , and endeavoured to overcome it by reproof , rather than to encourage it by gentleness . 
The entrance of supper somewhat interrupted the complacent discourse of Madame Cheron and the painful considerations , which it had forced upon Emily . 
When the repast , which was rendered ostentatious by the attendance of a great number of servants , and by a profusion of plate , was over , Madame Cheron retired to her chamber , and a female servant came to shew Emily to hers . 
Having passed up a large staircase , and through several galleries , they came to a flight of back stairs , which led into a short passage in a remote part of the chateau , and there the servant opened the door of a small chamber , which she said was Ma'amselle Emily 's , who , once more alone , indulged the tears she had long tried to restrain . 
Those , who know , from experience , how much the heart becomes attached even to inanimate objects , to which it has been long accustomed , how unwillingly it resigns them ; how with the sensations of an old friend it meets them , after temporary absence , will understand the forlornness of Emily 's feelings , of Emily shut out from the only home she had known from her infancy , and thrown upon a scene , and among persons , disagreeable for more qualities than their novelty . 
Her father 's favourite dog , now in the chamber , thus seemed to acquire the character and importance of a friend ; and , as the animal fawned over her when she wept , and licked her hands , `` Ah , poor Manchon ! '' 
said she , `` I have nobody now to love me -- but you ! '' 
and she wept the more . 
After some time , her thoughts returning to her father 's injunctions , she remembered how often he had blamed her for indulging useless sorrow ; how often he had pointed out to her the necessity of fortitude and patience , assuring her , that the faculties of the mind strengthen by exertion , till they finally unnerve affliction , and triumph over it . 
These recollections dried her tears , gradually soothed her spirits , and inspired her with the sweet emulation of practising precepts , which her father had so frequently inculcated . 
Madame Cheron 's house stood at a little distance from the city of Tholouse , and was surrounded by extensive gardens , in which Emily , who had arisen early , amused herself with wandering before breakfast . 
On the distant horizon to the south , she discovered the wild summits of the Pyrenées , and her fancy immediately painted the green pastures of Gascony at their feet . 
Her heart pointed to her peaceful home -- to the neighbourhood where Valancourt was -- where St. Aubert had been ; and her imagination , piercing the veil of distance , brought that home to her eyes in all its interesting and romantic beauty . 
`` I do n't approve of these solitary walks ; '' and Emily was surprised , when , having informed her aunt , that she had been no further than the gardens , she understood these to be included in the reproof . 
Emily , extremely surprised and shocked , bad scarcely power to beg an explanation of these words , and , when she did , her aunt absolutely refused to give it , though , by her severe looks , and half sentences , she appeared anxious to impress Emily with a belief , that she was well informed of some degrading circumstances of her conduct . 
Conscious innocence could not prevent a blush from stealing over Emily 's cheek ; she trembled , and looked confusedly under the bold eye of Madame Cheron , who blushed also ; but hers was the blush of triumph , such as sometimes stains the countenance of a person , congratulating himself on the penetration which had taught him to suspect another , and who loses both pity for the supposed criminal , and indignation of his guilt , in the gratification of his own vanity . 
Emily , not doubting that her aunt 's mistake arose from the having observed her ramble in the garden on the night preceding her departure from La Vallée , now mentioned the motive of it , at which Madame Cheron smiled contemptuously , refusing either to accept this explanation , or to give her reasons for refusing it ; and , sóon after , she concluded the subject by saying , `` I never trust people 's assertions , I always judge of them by their actions ; but I am willing to try what will be your behaviour in future . '' 
Emily , less surprised by her aunt 's moderation and mysterious silence , than by the accusation she had received , deeply considered the latter , and scarcely doubted , that it was Valancourt whom she had seen at night in the gardens of La Vallée , and that he had been observed there by Madame Cheron ; who now passing from one painful topic only to revive another almost equally so , spoke of the situation of her niece 's property , in the hands of M. Motteville . 
While she thus talked with ostentatious pity of Emily 's misfortunes , she failed not to inculcate the duties of humility and gratitude , or to render Emily fully sensible of every cruel mortification , who soon perceived , that she was to be considered as a dependent , not only by her aunt , but by her aunt 's servants . 
She was now informed , that a large party were expected to dinner , on which account Madame Cheron repeated the lesson of the preceding night , concerning her conduct in company , and Emily wished , that she might have courage enough to practise it . 
Her aunt then proceeded to examine the simplicity of her dress , adding , that she expected to see her attired with gaiety and taste ; after which she condescended to shew Emily the splendour of her chateau , and to point out the particular beauty , or elegance , which she thought distinguished each of her numerous suites of apartments . 
She then withdrew to her toilet , the throne of her homage , and Emily to her chamber , to unpack her books , and to try to charm her mind by reading , till the hour of dressing . 
When the company arrived , Emily entered the saloon with an air of timidity , which all her efforts could not overcome , and which was increased by the consciousness of Madame Cheron 's severe observation . 
Her mourning dress , the mild dejection of her beautiful countenance , and the retiring diffidence of her manner , rendered her a very interesting object to many of the company ; among whom she distinguished Signor Montoni , and his friend Cavigni , the late visitors at M. Quesnel 's , who now seemed to converse with Madame Cheron with the familiarity of old acquaintance , and she to attend to them with particular pleasure . 
Emily felt admiration , but not the admiration that leads to esteem ; for it was mixed with a degree of fear she knew not exactly wherefore . 
Cavigni was gay and insinuating as formerly ; and , though he paid almost incessant attention to Madame Cheron , he found some opportunities of conversing with Emily , to whom he directed , at first , the sallies of his wit , but now and then assumed an air of tenderness , which she observed , and shrunk from . 
Though she replied but little , the gentleness and sweetness of her manners encouraged him to talk , and she felt relieved when a young lady of the party , who spoke incessantly , obtruded herself on his notice . 
This day passed without any material occurrence ; and Emily , though amused by the characters she had seen , was glad when she could retire to the recollections , which had acquired with her the character of duties . 
A fortnight passed in a round of dissipation and company , and Emily , who attended Madame Cheron in all her visits , was sometimes entertained , but oftener wearied . 
She was struck by the apparent talents and knowledge displayed in the various conversations she listened to , and it was long before she discovered , that the talents were for the most part those of imposture , and the knowledge nothing more than was necessary to assist them . 
But what deceived her most , was the air of constant gaiety and good spirits , displayed by every visitor , and which she supposed to arise from content as constant , and from benevolence as ready . 
At length , from the over-acting of some , less accomplished than the others , she could perceive , that , though contentment and benevolence are the only sure sources of cheerfulness , the immoderate and feverish animation , usually exhibited in large parties , results partly from an insensibility to the cares , which benevolence must sometimes derive from the sufferings of others , and partly from a desire to display the appearance of that prosperity , which they know will command submission and attention to themselves . 
Emily 's pleasantest hours were passed in the pavilion of the terrace , to which she retired , when she could steal from observation , with a book to overcome , or a lute to indulge , her melancholy . 
There , as she sat with her eyes fixed on the far-distant Pyrenées , and her thoughts on Valancourt and the beloved scenes of Gascony , she would play the sweet and melancholy songs of her native province -- the popular songs she had listened to from her childhood . 
One evening , having excused herself from accompanying her aunt abroad , she thus withdrew to the pavilion , with books and her lute . 
Emily touched her lute with that fine melancholy expression , which came from her heart . 
The pensive hour and the scene , the evening light on the Garonne , that flowed at no great distance , and whose waves , as they passed towards La Vallée , she often viewed with a sigh , -- these united circumstances disposed her mind to tenderness , and her thoughts were with Valancourt ; of whom she had heard nothing since her arrival at Tholouse , and now that she was removed from him , and in uncertainty , she perceived all the interest he held in her heart . 
Before she saw Valancourt she had never met a mind and taste so accordant with her own , and , though Madame Cheron told her much of the arts of dissimulation , and that the elegance and propriety of thought , which she so much admired in her lover , were assumed for the purpose of pleasing her , she could scarcely doubt their truth . 
This possibility , however , faint as it was , was sufficient to harass her mind with anxiety , and she found , that few conditions are more painful than that of uncertainty , as to the merit of a beloved object ; an uncertainty , which she would not have suffered , had her confidence in her own opinions been greater . 
She was awakened from her musing by the sound of horses ' feet along a road , that wound under the windows of the pavilion , and a gentleman passed on horseback , whose resemblance to Valancourt , in air and figure , for the twilight did not permit a view of his features , immediately struck her . 
She retired hastily from the lattice , fearing to be seen , yet wishing to observe further , while the stranger passed on without looking up , and , when she returned to the lattice , she saw him faintly through the twilight , winding under the high trees , that led to Tholouse . 
This little incident so much disturbed her spirits , that the temple and its scenery were no longer interesting to her , and , after walking awhile on the terrace , she returned to the chateau . 
Madame Cheron , whether she had seen a rival admired , had lost at play , or had witnessed an entertainment more splendid than her own , was returned from her visit with a temper more than usually discomposed ; and Emily was glad , when the hour arrived , in which she could retire to the solitude of her own apartment . 
On the following morning , she was summoned to Madame Cheron , whose countenance was inflamed with resentment , and , as Emily advanced , she held out a letter to her . 
said she , in a severe tone , and with a look that was intended to search her heart , while Emily examined the letter attentively , and assured her , that she did not . 
`` Do not provoke me , '' said her aunt ; `` you do know it , confess the truth immediately . 
Emily was silent , and turned to leave the room , but Madame called her back . 
`` O you are guilty then , '' said she , `` you do know the hand . '' 
`` If you was before in doubt of this , madam , '' replied Emily calmly , `` why did you accuse me of having told a falsehood . '' 
Madame Cheron did not blush ; but her niece did , a moment after , when she heard the name of Valancourt . 
It was not , however , with the consciousness of deserving reproof , for , if she ever had seen his hand-writing , the present characters did not bring it to her recollection . 
Emily , shocked at the indelicacy of this accusation , still more than by the vulgarity of the former , instantly forgot the pride , that had imposed silence , and endeavoured to vindicate herself from the aspersion , but Madame Cheron was not to be convinced . 
`` I can not suppose , '' she resumed , `` that this young man would have taken the liberty of writing to me , if you had not encouraged him to do so , and I must now '' -- `` You will allow me to remind you , madam , '' said Emily timidly , `` of some particulars of a conversation we had at La Vallée . 
`` I will not be interrupted , '' said Madame Cheron , interrupting her niece , `` I was going to say -- I -- I -- have forgot what I was going to say . 
Emily was silent . 
`` His family was known to my father , '' said Emily modestly ; and without appearing to be sensible of the last sentence . 
that is no recommendation at all , '' replied her aunt , with her usual readiness upon this topic ; `` he took such strange fanciès to people ! 
`` Yet it was but now , madam , that you judged me guilty by my countenance , '' said Emily , with a design of reproving Madame Cheron , to which she was induced by this disrespectful mention of her father . 
`` I called you here , '' resumed her aunt , colouring , `` to tell you , that I will not be disturbed in my own house by any letters , or visits from young men , who may take a fancy to flatter you . 
And for you , Emily , I repeat it once for all -- if you are not contented to conform to my directions , and to my way of life , I shall give up the task of overlooking your conduct -- I shall no longer trouble myself with your education , but shall send you to board in a convent . '' 
`` Dear madam , '' said Emily , bursting into tears , and overcome by the rude suspicions her aunt had expressed , `` how have I deserved these reproofs ! '' 
She could say no more ; and so very fearful was she of acting with any degree of impropriety in the affair itself , that , at the present moment , Madame Cheron might perhaps have prevailed with her to bind herself by a promise to renounce Valancourt for ever . 
Her mind , weakened by her terrors , would no longer suffer her to view him as she had formerly done ; she feared the error of her own judgment , not that of Madame Cheron , and feared also , that , in her former conversation with him , at La Vallée , she had not conducted herself with sufficient reserve . 
She knew , that she did not deserve the coarse suspicions , which her aunt had thrown out , but a thousand scruples rose to torment her , such as would never have disturbed the peace of Madame Cheron . 
Thus rendered anxious to avoid every opportunity of erring , and willing to submit to any restrictions , that her aunt should think proper , she expressed an obedience , to which Madame Cheron did not give much confidence , and which she seemed to consider as the consequence of either fear , or artifice . 
`` Well then , '' said she , `` promise me that you will neither see this young man , nor write to him without my consent . '' 
-- `` Dear , madam , '' replied Emily , `` can you suppose I would do either , unknown to you ! '' 
said Emily , `` I am anxious for my own respect ; my father taught me the value of that ; he said if I deserved my own esteem , that of the world would follow of course . '' 
I am sure I have always felt a proper respect for myself , yet -- '' She stopped , but she might have added , that the world had not always shewn respect to her , and this without impeaching its judgment . 
Emily readily gave it , and , being then suffered to withdraw , she walked in the garden ; tried to compose her spirits , and , at length , arrived at her favourite pavilion at the end of the terrace , where , seating herself at one of the embowered windows , that opened upon a balcony , the stillness and seclusion of the scene allowed her to recollect her thoughts , and to arrange them so as to form a clearer judgment of her former conduct . 
She endeavoured to review with exactness all the particulars of her conversation with Valancourt at La Vallée , had the satisfaction to observe nothing , that could alarm her delicate pride , and thus to be confirmed in the self-esteem , which was so necessary to her peace . 
Her mind then became tranquil , and she saw Valancourt amiable and intelligent , as he had formerly appeared , and Madame Cheron neither the one , or the other . 
The remembrance of her lover , however , brought with it many very painful emotions , for it by no means reconciled her to the thought of resigning him ; and , Madame Cheron having already shewn how highly she disapproved of the attachment , she foresaw much suffering from the opposition of interests ; yet with all this was mingled a degree of delight , which , in spite of reason , partook of hope . 
She determined , however , that no consideration should induce her to permit a clandestine correspondence , and to observe in her conversation with Valancourt , should they ever meet again , the same nicety of reserve , which had hitherto marked her conduct . 
As she repeated the words -- `` should we ever meet again ! '' 
she shrunk as if this was a circumstance , which had never before occurred to her , and tears came to her eyes , which she hastily dried , for she heard footsteps approaching , and then the door of the pavilion open , and , on turning , she saw -- Valancourt . 
An emotion of mingled pleasure , surprise and apprehension pressed so suddenly upon her heart as almost to overcome her spirits ; the colour left her cheeks , then returned brighter than before , and she was for a moment unable to speak , or to rise from her chair . 
His countenance was the mirror , in which she saw her own emotions reflected , and it roused her to selfcommand . 
The joy , which had animated his features , when he entered the pavilion , was suddenly repressed , as , approaching , he perceived her agitation , and , in a tremulous voice , enquired after her health . 
Recovered from her first surprise , she answered him with a tempered smile ; but a variety of opposite emotions still assailed her heart , and struggled to subdue the mild dignity of her manner . 
It was difficult to tell which predominated -- the joy of seeing Valancourt , or the terror of her aunt 's displeasure , when she should hear of this meeting . 
After some short and embarrassed conversation , she led him into the gardens , and enquired if he had seen Madame Cheron . '' 
`` No , '' said he , `` I have not yet seen her , for they told me she was engaged , and as soon as I learned that you were in the gardens , I came hither . '' 
He paused a moment , in great agitation , and then added , `` May I venture to tell you the purport of my visit , without incurring your displeasure , and to hope , that you will not accuse me of precipitation in now availing myself of the permission you once gave me of addressing your family ? '' 
Emily , who knew not what to reply , was spared from further perplexity , and was sensible only of fear , when , on raising her eyes , she saw Madame Cheron turn into the avenue . 
As the consciousness of innocence returned , this fear was so far dissipated as to permit her to appear tranquil , and , instead of avoiding her aunt , she advanced with Valancourt to meet her . 
The look of haughty and impatient displeasure , with which Madame Cheron regarded them , made Emily shrink , who understood from a single glance , that this meeting was believed to have been more than accidental : having mentioned Valancourt 's name , she became again too much agitated to remain with them , and returned into the chateau ; where she awaited long , in a state of trembling anxiety , the conclusion of the conference . 
She knew not how to account for Valancourt 's visit to her aunt , before he had received the permission he solicited , since she was ignorant of a circumstance , which would have rendered the request useless , even if Madame Cheron had been inclined to grant it . 
Valancourt , in the agitation of his spirits , had forgotten to date his letter , so that it was impossible for Madame Cheron to return an answer ; and , when he recollected this circumstance , he was , perhaps , not so sorry for the omission as glad of the excuse it allowed him for waiting on her before she could send a refusal . 
Madame Cheron had a long conversation with Valancourt , and , when she returned to the chateau , her countenance expressed illhumour , but not the degree of severity , which Emily had apprehended . 
`` I have dismissed this young man , at last , '' said she , `` and I hope my house will never again be disturbed with similar visits . 
said Emily in extreme emotion , `` you surely did not ask him the question ! '' 
exclaimed Emily , `` what an opinion must he form of me , since you , Madam , could express a suspicion of such ill conduct ! '' 
`` It is of very little consequence what opinion he may form of you , '' replied her aunt , `` for I have put an end to the affair ; but I believe he will not form a worse opinion of me for my prudent conduct . 
Emily had frequently head Madame Cheron use the word delicacy , but she was now more than usually perplexed to understand how she meant to apply it in this instance , in which her whole conduct appeared to merit the very reverse of the term . 
Emily dried her tears when she heard of the candid confession of Valancourt ; and , though the circumstances it discovered were afflicting to her hopes , his artless conduct gave her a degree of pleasure , that overcame every other emotion . 
But she was compelled , even thus early in life , to observe , that good sense and noble integrity are not always sufficient to cope with folly and narrow cunning ; and her heart was pure enough to allow her , even at this trying moment , to look with more pride on the defeat of the former , than with mortification on the conquests of the latter . 
Madame Cheron pursued her triumph . 
said Emily , trying to suppress her emotion , `` how little of the dear parents , who educated me ! '' 
Madame Cheron now went to dress for an engagement , which she had made for the evening ; and Emily , who would gladly have been excused from attending her aunt , did not ask to remain at home lest her request should be attributed to an improper motive . 
When she retired to her own room , the little fortitude , which had supported her in the presence of her relation , forsook her ; she remembered only that Valancourt , whose character appeared more amiable from every circumstance , that unfolded it , was banished from her presence , perhaps , for ever , and she passed the time in weeping , which , according to her aunt 's direction , she ought to have employed in dressing . 
This important duty was , however , quickly dispatched ; though , when she joined Madame Cheron at table , her eyes betrayed , that she had been in tears , and drew upon her a severe reproof . 
Hen efforts to appear cheerful did not entirely fail when she joined the company at the house of Madame Clairval , an elderly widow lady , who had lately come to reside at Tholouse , on an estate of her late husband . 
Emily surveyed the gaiety of the scene with a melancholy kind of pleasure , and her emotion may be imagined when , as she stood with her aunt , looking at one of the groups , she perceived Valancourt ; saw him dancing with a young and beautiful lady , saw him conversing with her with a mixture of attention and familiarity , such as she had seldom observed in his manner . 
A faintness suddenly came over Emily , and , unable to support herself , she sat down on a turf bank beneath the trees , where several other persons were seated . 
One of these , observing the extreme paleness of her countenance , enquired if she was ill , and begged she would allow him to fetch her a glass of water , for which politeness she thanked him , but did not accept it . 
Her apprehension lest Valancourt should observe her emotion made her anxious to overcome it , and she succeeded so far as to re-compose her countenance . 
Madame Cheron was still conversing with Cavigni ; and the Count Bauvillers , who had addressed Emily , made some observations upon the scene , to which she answered almost unconsciously , for her mind was still occupied with the idea of Valancourt , to whom it was with extreme uneasiness that she remained so near . 
Some remarks , however , which the Count made upon the dance obliged her to turn her eyes towards it , and , at that moment , Valancourt 's met hers . 
Her colour faded again , she felt , that she was relapsing into faintness , and instantly averted her looks , but not before she had observed the altered countenance of Valancourt , on perceiving her . 
She would have left the spot immediately , had she not been conscious , that this conduct would have shewn him more obviously the interest he held in her heart ; and , having tried to attend to the Count 's conversation and to join in it , she , at length , recovered her spirits . 
But , when he made some observation on Valancourt 's partner , the fear of shewing , that she was interested in the remark , would have betrayed it to him , had not the Count , while he spoke , looked towards the person of whom he was speaking . 
`` The lady , '' said he , `` dancing with that young chevalier , who appears to be accomplished in every thing , but in dancing , is ranked among the beauties of Tholouse . 
Emily , whose heart trembled at every word , that was now uttered , endeavoured to turn the conversation from Valancourt , by enquiring the name of the lady , with whom he danced ; but , before the Count could reply , the dance concluded , and Emily , perceiving that Valancourt was coming towards her , rose and joined Madame Cheron . 
`` Here is the Chevalier Valancourt , madam , '' said she in a whisper , `` pray let us go . '' 
Her aunt immediately moved on , but not before Valancourt had reached them , who bowed lowly to Madame Cheron , and with an earnest and dejected look to Emily , with whom , notwithstanding all her effort , an air of more than common reserve prevailed . 
The presence of Madame Cheron prevented Valancourt from remaining , and he passed on with a countenance , whose melancholy reproached her for having increased it . 
Emily was called from the musing fit , into which he had fallen , by the Count Bauvillers , who was known to her aunt . 
`` I have your pardon to beg , ma'amselle , '' said he , `` for a rudeness , which you will readily believe was quite unintentional . 
Emily blushed and smiled , and Madame Cheron spared her the difficulty of replying . 
`` If you mean the person , who has just passed us , '' said she , `` I can assure you he is no acquaintance of either mine , or ma'amselle St. Aubert 's : I know nothing of him . '' 
Cavigni turned away his face for a moment , and then said with a studied air , `` Whom then are we to compliment , madam ? 
As he finished the sentence he gave Emily a sly look , and the smile , that had lurked in his eye , stole forth . 
She perfectly understood it , and blushed for Madame Cheron , who replied , `` You are perfectly right , signor , no woman of understanding can endure compliment . '' 
He looked again at Emily , who blushed deeper than before for her aunt , and turned from him with displeasure . 
Madame Cheron did not perceive the meaning of this too satirical sentence , and she therefore , escaped the pain , which Emily felt on her account . 
here comes signor Montoni himself , '' said her aunt , `` I protest I will tell him all the fine things you have been saying to me . '' 
Her manner , at this moment , and Cavigni 's late conversation , now awakened a suspicion in Emily 's mind , which , notwithstanding that some recollections served to confirm it appeared preposterous . 
She thought she perceived , that Montoni was paying serious addresses to her aunt , and that she not only accepted them , but was jealously watchful of any appearance of neglect on his part . 
-- That Madame Cheron at her years should elect a second husband was ridiculous , though her vanity made it not impossible ; but that Montoni , with his discernment , his figure , and pretensions , should make a choice of Madame Cheron -- appeared most wonderful . 
Her thoughts , however , did not dwell long on the subject ; nearer interests pressed upon them ; Valancourt , rejected of her aunt , and Valancourt dancing with a gay and beautiful partner , alternately tormented her mind . 
As she passed along the gardens she looked timidly forward , half fearing and half hoping that he might appear in the crowd ; and the disappointment she felt on not seeing him , told her , that she had hoped more than she had feared . 
He muttered over some short speech about regret for having been so long detained elsewhere , when he knew he should have the pleasure of seeing Madame Cheron here ; and she , receiving the apology with the air of a pettish girl , addressed herself entirely to Cavigni , who looked archly at Montoni , as if he would have said , `` I will not triumph over you too much ; I will have the goodness to bear my honours meekly ; but look sharp , signor , or I shall certainly run away with your prize . '' 
Madame Cheron and her party supped with Madame Clairval in the saloon , and Emily , with difficulty , disguised her emotion , when she saw Valancourt placed at the same table with herself . 
There , Madame Cheron having surveyed him with high displeasure , said to some person who sat next to her , `` Pray , who is that young man ? '' 
The attention of the person , to whom she spoke , was called off before she received a second reply . 
The table , at which they sat , was very long , and , Valancourt being seated , with his partner , near the bottom , and Emily near the top , the distance between them may account for his not immediately perceiving her . 
She avoided looking to that end of the table , but , whenever her eyes happened to glance towards it , she observed him conversing with his beautiful companion , and the observation did not contribute to restore her peace , any more than the accounts she heard of the fortune and accomplishments of this same lady . 
Madame Cheron , to whom these remarks were sometimes addressed , because they supported topics for trivial conversation , seemed indefatigable in her attempts to depreciate Valancourt , towards whom she felt all the petty resentment of a narrow pride . 
`` I admire the lady , '' said she , `` but I must condemn her choice of a partner . '' 
`` His discernment may be justly questioned , signor , '' said Madame Cheron , who was not flattered by what she understood to be an encomium upon Emily . 
Emily looked surprised and embarrassed ; the lady , who had lately spoken , astonished , and Madame Cheron , who , though she did not perfectly understand this speech , was very ready to believe herself complimented by it , said smilingly , `` O Signor ! 
Emily , who , during the greater part of this conversation , had been so absorbed in thought as to be spared the pain of hearing it , was now extremely surprised by her aunt 's praise of Valancourt , with whose relationship to Madame Clairval she was unacquainted ; but she was not sorry when Madame Cheron , who , though she now tried to appear unconcerned , was really much embarrassed , prepared to withdraw immediately after supper . 
Montoni then came to hand Madame Cheron to her carriage , and Cavigni , with an arch solemnity of countenance , followed with Emily , who , as she wished them good night , and drew up the glass , saw Valancourt among the crowd at the gates . 
Before the carriage drove off , he disappeared . 
Madame Cheron forbore to mention him to Emily , and , as soon as they reached the chateau , they separated for the night . 
On the following morning , as Emily sat at breakfast with her aunt , a letter was brought to her , of which she knew the hand-writing upon the cover ; and , as she received it with a trembling hand , Madame Cheron hastily enquired from whom it came . 
Emily , with her leave , broke the seal , and , observing the signature of Valancourt , gave it unread to her aunt , who received it with impatience ; and , as she looked it over , Emily endeavoured to read on her countenance its contents . 
Having returned the letter to her niece , whose eyes asked if she might examine it , `` Yes , read it , child , '' said Madame Cheron , in a manner less severe than she had expected , and Emily had , perhaps , never before so willingly obeyed her aunt . 
In this letter Valancourt said little of the interview of the preceding day , but concluded with declaring , that he would accept his dismission from Emily only , and with entreating , that she would allow him to wait upon her , on the approaching evening . 
Emily dared scarcely credit what she heard . 
She called for pen and ink ; Emily still not daring to trust the emotions she felt , and almost sinking beneath them . 
Her surprise would have been less had she overheard , on the preceding evening , what Madame Cheron had not forgotten -- that Valancourt was the nephew of Madame Clairval . 
What were the particulars of her aunt 's note Emily did not learn , but the result was a visit from Valancourt in the evening , whom Madame Cheron received alone , and they had a long conversation before Emily was called down . 
When she entered the room , her aunt was conversing with complacency , and she saw the eyes of Valancourt , as he impatiently rose , animated with hope . 
Valancourt bowed , and was going to address Emily , but her aunt prevented him . 
Valancourt will observe , and you too , Emily , that , till that happens , I positively forbid any thoughts of marrying . '' 
Emily 's countenance , during this coarse speech , varied every instant , and , towards its conclusion , her distress had so much increased , that she was on the point of leaving the room . 
Valancourt , meanwhile , scarcely less embarrassed , did not dare to look at her , for whom he was thus distressed ; but , when Madame Cheron was silent , he said , `` Flattering , madam , as your approbation is to me -- highly as I am honoured by it -- I have yet so much to fear , that I scarcely dare to hope . '' 
As she said this , she rose and quitted the room , leaving Emily and Valancourt in a state of mutual embarrassment ; and , when Valancourt 's hopes enabled him to overcome his fears , and to address her with the zeal and sincerity so natural to him , it was a considerable time before she was sufficiently recovered to hear with distinctness his solicitations and enquiries . 
Valancourt , in his first interview , had with great candour laid open to her the true state of his present circumstances , and his future expectancies , and she , with more prudence than humanity , had absolutely and abruptly rejected his suit . 
She wished her niece to marry ambitiously , not because she desired to see her in possession of the happiness , which rank and wealth are usually believed to bestow , but because she desired to partake the importance , which such an alliance would give . 
When , therefore , she discovered that Valancourt was the nephew of a person of so much consequence as Madame Clairval , she became anxious for the connection , since the prospect it afforded of future fortune and distinction for Emily , promised the exaltation she coveted for herself . 
Her calculations concerning fortune in this alliance were guided rather by her wishes , than by any hint of Valancourt , or strong appearance of probability ; and , when she rested her expectation on the wealth of Madame Clairval , she seemed totally to have forgotten , that the latter had a daughter . 
Valancourt , however , had not forgotten this circumstance , and the consideration of it had made him so modest in his expectations from Madame Clairval , that he had not even named the relationship in his first conversation with Madame Cheron . 
But , whatever might be the future fortune of Emily , the present distinction , which the connection would afford for herself , was certain , since the splendour of Madame Clairval 's establishment was such as to excite the general envy and partial imitation of the neighbourhood . 
Thus had she consented to involve her niece in an engagement , to which she saw only a distant and uncertain conclusion , with as little consideration of her happiness , as when she had so precipitately forbade it : for though she herself possessed the means of rendering this union not only certain , but prudent , yet to do so was no part of her present intention . 
From this period Valancourt made frequent visits to Madame Cheron , and Emily passed in his society the happiest hours she had known since the death of her father . 
Meanwhile , Madame Cheron 's intercourse with Madame Clairval became more frequent than before , and her vanity was already gratified by the opportunity of proclaiming , wherever she went , the attachment that subsisted between their nephew and niece . 
Montoni was now also become a daily guest at the chateau , and Emily was compelled to observe , that he really was a suitor , and a favoured suitor , to her aunt . 
Thus passed the winter months , not only in peace , but in happiness , to Valancourt and Emily ; the station of his regiment being so near . 
The pavilion on the terrace was the favourite scene of their interviews , and there Emily , with Madame Cheron , would work , while Valancourt read aloud works of genius and taste , listened to her enthusiasm , expressed his own , and caught new opportunities of observing , that their minds were formed to constitute the happiness of each other , the same taste , the same noble and benevolent sentiments animating each . 
Madame Cheron 's avarice at length yielded to her vanity . 
Some very splendid entertainments , which Madame Clairval had given , and the general adulation , which was paid her , made the former more anxious than before to secure an alliance , that would so much exalt her in her own opinion and in that of the world . 
She proposed terms for the immediate marriage of her niece , and offered to give Emily a dower , provided Madame Clairval observed equal terms , on the part of her nephew . 
Madame Clairval listened to the proposal , and , considering that Emily was the apparent heiress of her aunt 's wealth , accepted it . 
Meanwhile , Emily knew nothing of the transaction , till Madame Cheron informed her , that she must make preparation for the nuptials , which would be celebrated without further delay then , astonished and wholly unable to account for this sudden conclusion , which Valancourt had not solicited -LRB- for he was ignorant of what had passed between the elder ladies , and had not dared to hope such good fortune -RRB- , she decisively objected to it . 
Madame Cheron , however , quite as jealous of contradiction now , as she had been formerly , contended for a speedy marriage with as much vehemence as she had formerly opposed whatever had the most remote possibility of leading to it ; and Emily 's scruples disappeared , when she again saw Valancourt , who was now informed of the happiness , designed for him , and came to claim a promise of it from herself . 
While preparations were making for these nuptials , Montoni became the acknowledged lover of Madame Cheron ; and , though Madame Clairval was much displeased , when she heard of the approaching connection , and was willing to prevent that of Valancourt with Emily , her conscience told her , that she had no right thus to trifle with their peace , and Madame Clairval , though a woman of fashion , was far less advanced than her friend in the art of deriving satisfaction from distinction and admiration , rather than from conscience . 
Emily observed with concern the ascendancy , which Montoni had acquired over Madame Cheron , as well as the increasing frequency of his visits ; and her own opinion of this Italian was confirmed by that of Valancourt , who had always expressed a dislike of him . 
As she was , one morning , sitting at work in the pavilion , enjoying the pleasant freshness of spring , whose colours were now spread up in the landscape , and listening to Valancourt , who was reading , but who often laid aside the book to converse , she received a summons to attend Madame Cheron immediately , and had scarcely entered the dressing-room , when she observed with surprise the dejection of her aunt 's countenance , and the contrasted gaiety of her dress . 
-- said Madame , and she stopped under some degree of embarrassment . 
Astonished -- not so much at the marriage , as at the secrecy with which it had been concluded , and the agitation with which it was announced , Emily , at length , attributed the privacy to the wish of Montoni , rather than of her aunt . 
His wife , however , intended , that the contrary should be believed , and therefore added , `` You see I wished to avoid a bustle ; but now the ceremony is over I shall do so no longer ; and I wish to announce to my servants , that they must receive the signor Montoni for their master . '' 
Emily made a feeble attempt to congratulate her on these apparently imprudent nuptials . 
Emily was so lost in surprise and various thought , that she made Madame Montoni scarcely any reply , but , at her desire , she returned to inform Valancourt of what had passed . 
Surprise was not his predominant emotion on hearing of these hasty nuptials ; and , when he learned , that they were to be the means of delaying his own , and that the very ornaments of the chateau , which had been prepared to grace the nuptial day of his Emily , were to be degraded to the celebration of Madame Montoni 's , grief and indignation agitated him alternately . 
He could conceal neither from the observation of Emily , whose efforts to abstract him from these serious emotions , and to laugh at the apprehensive considerations , that assailed him , were ineffectual ; and , when , at length , he took leave , there was an earnest tenderness in his manner , that extremely affected her ; she even shed tears , when he disappeared at the end of the terrace , yet knew not exactly why she should do so . 
His friend Cavigni , who had been extremely serviceable , in having paid Madame Cheron the attention and flattery , which she required , but from which Montoni too often revolted , had apartments assigned to him , and received from the domestics an equal degree of obedience with the master of the mansion . 
Within a few days , Madame Montoni , as she had promised , gave a magnificent entertainment to a very numerous company , among whom was Valancourt ; but at which Madame Clairval excused herself from attending . 
Valancourt was , of course , Emily 's partner , and though , when he gave a look to the decorations of the apartments , he could not but remember , that they were designed for other festivities , than those they now contributed to celebrate , he endeavoured to check his concern by considering , that a little while only would elapse before they would be given to their original destination . 
A few weeks only had elapsed , since the marriage , when Madame Montoni informed Emily , that the signor intended to return to Italy , as soon as the necessary preparation could be made for so long a journey . 
`` We shall go to Venice , '' said she , `` where the signor has a fine mansion , and from thence to his estate in Tuscany . 
said Emily , with extreme surprise and emotion . 
`` Most certainly , '' replied her aunt , `` how could you imagine we should leave you behind ? 
The unfeeling manner , in which Madame Montoni thus informed her niece , that she must be separated , perhaps for ever , from the man , with whom she was on the point of being united for life , added to the dismay , which she must otherwise have suffered at such intelligence . 
When she could speak she asked the cause of the sudden change in Madame 's sentiments towards Valancourt , but the only reply she could obtain was , that the Signor had forbade the connection , considering it to be greatly inferior to what Emily might reasonably expect . 
Emily would have been astonished at the assertions of this eloquent speech , had not her mind been so overwhelmed by the sudden shock it had received , that she scarcely heard a word of what was latterly addressed to her . 
Whatever were the weaknesses of Madame Montoni , she might have avoided to accuse herself with those of compassion and tenderness to the feelings of others , and especially to those of Emily . 
It was the same ambition , that lately prevailed upon her to solicit an alliance with Madame Clairval 's family , which induced her to withdraw from it , now that her marriage with Montoni had exalted her self-consequence , and , with it , her views for her niece . 
Emily was , at this time , too much affected to employ either remonstrance , or entreaty on this topic ; and when , at length , she attempted the latter , her emotion overcame her speech , and she retired to her apartment , to think , if in the present state of her mind to think was possible , upon this sudden and overwhelming subject . 
It was very long , before her spirits were sufficiently composed to permit the reflection , which , when it came , was dark and even terrible . 
She saw , that Montoni sought to aggrandise himself in his disposal of her , and it occurred , that his friend Cavigni was the person , for whom he was interested . 
The prospect of going to Italy was still rendered darker , when she considered the tumultuous situation of that country , then torn by civil commotion , where every petty state was at war with its neighbour , and even every castle liable to the attack of an invader . 
She considered the person , to whose immediate guidance she would be committed , and the vast distance , that was to separate her from Valancourt , and , at the recollection of him , every other image vanished from her mind , and every thought was again obscured by grief . 
In this perturbed state she passed some hours , and , when she was summoned to dinner , she entreated permission to remain in her own apartment ; but Madame Montoni was alone , and the request was refused . 
Emily and her aunt said little during the repast ; the one occupied by her griefs , the otherengrossed by the disappointment , which the unexpected absence of Montoni occasioned ; for not only was her vanity piqued by the neglect , but her jealousy alarmed by what she considered as a mysterious engagement . 
When the cloth was drawn and they were alone , Emily renewed the mention of Valancourt ; but her aunt , neither softened to pity , or awakened to remorse , became enraged , that her will should be opposed , and the authority of Montoni questioned , though this was done by Emily with her usual gentleness , who , after a long , and torturing conversation , retired in tears . 
As she crossed the hall , a person entered it by the great door , whom , as her eyes hastily glanced that way , she imagined to be Montoni , and she was passing on with quicker steps , when she heard the well-known voice of Valancourt . 
`` Emily , O ! 
my Emily ! '' 
cried he in a tone faltering with impatience , while she turned , and , as he advanced , was alarmed at the expression of his countenance and the eager desperation of his air . 
`` In tears , Emily ! 
I would speak with you , '' said he , `` I have much to say ; conduct me where we may converse . 
He observed the open door of an apartment , and hastily took her hand to lead her thither ; but she attempted to withdraw it , and said , with a languid smile , `` I am better already ; if you wish to see my aunt she is in the dining-parlour . '' 
`` I must speak with you , my Emily , '' replied Valancourt , `` Good God ! 
`` When you have seen my aunt , '' said Emily . 
The despondency , with which he spoke this , affected her almost to tears , but she persisted in refusing to hear him , till he had conversed with Madame Montoni . 
Emily , terrified for the consequence of the indignation , that flashed in his eyes , tremblingly assured him , that Montoni was at home , and entreated he would endeavour to moderate his resentment . 
At the tremulous accents of her voice , his eyes softened instantly from wildness into tenderness . 
`` You are ill , Emily , '' said he , `` they will destroy us both ! 
Emily no longer opposed him , as he led her into an adjoining parlour ; the manner , in which he had named Montoni , had so much alarmed her for his own safety , that she was now only anxious to prevent the consequences of his just resentment . 
He listened to her entreaties , with attention , but replied to them only with looks of despondency and tenderness , concealing , as much as possible , the sentiments he felt toward Montoni , that he might sooth the apprehensions , which distressed her . 
But she saw the veil he had spread over his resentment , and , his assumed tranquillity only alarming her more , she urged , at length , the impolicy of forcing an interview with Montoni , and of taking any measure , which might render their separation irremediable . 
Valancourt yielded to these remonstrances , and her affecting entreaties drew from him a promise , that , however Montoni might persist in his design of disuniting them , he would not seek to redress his wrongs by violence . 
`` For my sake , '' said Emily , `` let the consideration of what I should suffer deter you from such a mode of revenge ! '' 
`` For your sake , Emily , '' replied Valancourt , his eyes filling with tears of tenderness and grief , while he gazed upon her . 
Yet , O Emily ! 
Emily endeavoured to sooth him with assurances of her unalterable affection , and by representing , that , in little more than a year , she should be her own mistress , as far as related to her aunt , from whose guardianship her age would then release her ; assurances , which gave little consolation to Valancourt , who considered , that she would then be in Italy and in the power of those , whose dominion over her would not cease with their rights ; but he affected to be consoled by them . 
Emily , comforted by the promise she had obtained , and by his apparent composure , was about to leave him , when her aunt entered the room . 
She threw a glance of sharp reproof upon her niece ; who immediately withdrew , and of haughty displeasure upon Valancourt . 
`` This is not the conduct I should have expected from you , sir ; '' said she , `` I did not expect to see you in my house , after you had been informed , that your visits were no longer agreeable , much less , that you would seek a clandestine interview with my niece , and that she would grant one . '' 
Valancourt , perceiving it necessary to vindicate Emily from such a design , explained , that the purpose of his own visit had been to request an interview with Montoni , and he then entered upon the subject of it , with the tempered spirit which the sex , rather than the respectability , of Madame Montoni , demanded . 
His expostulations were answered with severe rebuke , she lamented again , that her prudence had ever yielded to what she termed compassion , and added , that she was so sensible of the folly of her former consent , that , to prevent the possibility of a repetition , she had committed the affair entirely to the conduct of Signor Montoni . 
The feeling eloquence of Valancourt , however , at length , made her sensible in some measure of her unworthy conduct , and she became susceptible to shame , but not to remorse : she hated Valancourt , who awakened her to this painful sensation , and , in proportion as she grew dissatisfied with herself , her abhorrence of him increased . 
This was also the more inveterate , because his tempered words and manner were such as , without accusing her , compelled her to accuse herself , and neither left her a hope , that the odious portrait was the caricature of his prejudice , or afforded her an excuse for expressing the violent resentment , with which she contemplated it . 
At length , her anger rose to such an height , that Valancourt was compelled to leave the house abruptly , left he should forfeit his own esteem by an intemperate reply . 
He was then convinced , that from Madame Montoni he had nothing to hope , for what of either pity , or justice could be expected from a person , who could feel the pain of guilt , without the humility of repentance ? 
To Montoni he looked with equal despondency , since it was nearly evident , that this plan of separation originated with him , and it was not probable , that he would relinquish his own views to entreaties , or remonstrances , which he must have foreseen and have been prepared to resist . 
Yet , remembering his promise to Emily , and more solicitous , concerning his love , than jealous of his consequence , Valancourt was careful to do nothing that might unnecessarily irritate Montoni ; he wrote to him , therefore , not to demand an interview , but to solicit one , and , having done this , he endeavoured to await with calmness his reply . 
When she gave her approbation to Valancourt 's marriage , it was in the belief , that Emily would be the heiress of Madame Montoni 's fortune ; and , though , upon the nuptials of the latter , when she perceived the fallacy of this expectation , her conscience had withheld her from adopting any measure to prevent the union , her benevolence was not sufficiently active to impel her towards any step , that might now promote it . 
She was , on the contrary , secretly pleased , that Valancourt was released from an engagement , which she considered to be as inferior , in point of fortune , to his merit , as his alliance was thought by Montoni to be humiliating to the beauty of Emily ; and , though her pride was wounded by this rejection of a member of her family , she disdained to shew resentment otherwise , than by silence . 
In consideration of the policy , suggested by Emily , and of his promise to her , Valancourt restrained the impulse , that urged him to the house of Montoni , to demand what had been denied to his entreaties . 
At length , Valancourt 's letters were returned unopened , and then , in the first moments of passionate despair , he forgot every promise to Emily , except the solemn one , which bound him to avoid violence , and hastened to Montoni 's chateau , determined to see him by whatever other means might be necessary . 
Not choosing to submit himself to a contest with these , he , at length , departed , and , returning home in a state of mind approaching to frenzy , wrote to Emily of what had passed , expressed without restraint all the agony of his heart , and entreated , that , since he must not otherwise hope to see her immediately , she would allow him an interview unknown to Montoni . 
Soon after he had dispatched this , his passions becoming more temperate , he was sensible of the error he had committed in having given Emily new subject of distress in the strong mention of his own suffering , and would have given half the world , had it been his , to recover the letter . 
Emily , however , was spared the pain she must have received from it by the suspicious policy of Madame Montoni , who had ordered , that all letters , addressed to her niece , should be delivered to herself , and who , after having perused this and indulged the expressions of resentment , which Valancourt 's mention of Montoni provoked , had consigned it to the flames . 
Montoni , meanwhile , every day more impatient to leave France , gave repeated orders for dispatch to the servants employed in preparations for the journey , and to the persons , with whom he was transacting some particular business . 
He preserved a steady silence to the letters in which Valancourt , despairing of greater good , and having subdued the passion , that had transgressed against his policy , solicited only the indulgence of being allowed to bid Emily farewell . 
But , when the latter learned , that she was really to set out in a very few days , and that it was designed he should see her no more , forgetting every consideration of prudence , he dared , in a second letter to Emily , to propose a clandestine marriage . 
This also was transmitted to Madame Montoni , and the last day of Emily 's stay at Tholouse arrived , without affording Valancourt even a line to sooth his sufferings , or a hope , that he shold be allowed a parting interview . 
During this period of torturing suspense to Valancourt , Emily was sunk into that kind of stupor , with which sudden and irremediable misfortune sometimes overwhelms the mind . 
Loving him with the tenderest affection , and having long been accustomed to consider him as the friend and companion of all her future days , she had no ideas of happiness , that were not connected with him . 
What , then , must have been her suffering , when thus suddenly they were to be separated , perhaps , for ever , certainly to be thrown into distant parts of the world , where they could scarcely hear of each other 's existence ; and all this in obedience to the will of a stranger , for such was Montoni , and of a person , who had but lately been anxious to hasten their nuptials ! 
It was in vain , that she endeavoured to subdue her grief , and resign herself to an event , which she could not avoid . 
The silence of Valancourt afflicted more than if surprised her , since she attributed it to its just occasion ; but , when the day , preceding that , on which she was to quit Tholouse , arrived , and she heard no mention of his being permitted to take leave of her , grief overcame every consideration , that had made her reluctant to speak of him , and she enquired of Madame Montoni , whether this consolation had been refused . 
Her aunt informed her that it had , adding , that , after the provocation she had herself received from Valancourt , in their last interview , and the persecution , which the Signor had suffered from his letters , no entreaties should avail to procure it . 
`` If the Chevalier expected this favour from us , '' said she , `` he should have conducted himself in a very different manner ; he should have waited patiently , till he knew whether we were disposed to grant it , and not have come and reproved me , because I did not think proper to bestow my niece upon him , -- and then have persisted in troubling the Signor , because he did not think proper to enter into any dispute about so childish an affair . 
Emily , having turned away to hide her tears , quitted the room to indulge them , and the day was passed in an intensity of anguish , such as she had , perhaps , never known before . 
When she withdrew to her chamber for the night , she remained in the chair where she had placed herself , on entering the room , absorbed in her grief , till long after every member of the family , except herself , was retired to rest . 
She could not divest herself of a belief , that she had parted with Valancourt to meet no more ; a belief , which did not arise merely from foreseen circumstances , for , though the length of the journey she was about to commence , the uncertainty as to the period of her return , together with the prohibitions she had received , seemed to justify it , she yielded also to an impression , which she mistook for a pre-sentiment , that she was going from Valancourt for ever . 
How dreadful to her imagination , too , was the distance that would separate them -- the Alps , those tremendous barriers ! 
To live in adjoining provinces , to live even in the same country , though without seeing him , was comparative happiness to the conviction of this dreadful length of distance . 
Her mind was , at length , so much agitated by the consideration of her state , and the belief , that she had seen Valancourt for the last time , that she suddenly became very faint , and , looking round the chamber for something , that might revive her , she observed the casements , and had just strength to throw one open , near which she seated herself . 
The air recalled her spirits , and the still moon-light , that fell upon the elms of a long avenue , fronting the window , somewhat soothed them , and determined her to try whether exercise and the open air would not relieve the intense pain that bound her temples . 
In the chateau all was still ; and , passing down the great stair-case into the hall , from whence a passage led immediately to the garden , she softly and unheard , as she thought , unlocked the door , and entered the avenue . 
Emily passed on with steps now hurried , and now faltering , as , deceived by the shadows among the trees , she fancied she saw some person move in the distant perspective , and feared , that it was a spy of Madame Montoni . 
Her desire , however , to re-visit the pavilion , where she had passed so many happy hours with Valancourt , and had admired with him the extensive prospect over Languedoc and her native Gascony , overcame her apprehension of being observed , and she moved on towards the terrace , which , running along the upper garden , commanded the whole of the lower one , and communicated with it by a flight of marble steps , that terminated the avenue . 
Having reached these steps , she paused a moment to look round , for her distance from the chateau now increased the fear , which the stillness and obscurity of the hour had awakened . 
But , perceiving nothing that could justify it , she ascended to the terrace , where the moon-light shewed the long broad walk , with the pavilion at its extremity , while the rays silvered the foliage of the high trees and shrubs , that bordered it on the right , and the tufted summits of those , that rose to a level with the balustrade on the left , from the garden below . 
Her distance from the chateau again alarming her , she paused to listen ; the night was so calm , that no sound could have escaped her , but she heard only the plaintive sweetness of the nightingale , with the light shiver of the leaves , and she pursued her way towards the pavilion , having reached which , its obscurity did not prevent the emotion , that a fuller view of its well-known scene would have excited . 
The lattices were thrown back , and shewed beyond their embowered arch the moon-light landscape , shadowy and soft ; its groves , and plains extending gradually and indistinctly to the eye , its distant mountains catching a stronger gleam , and the nearer river reflecting the moon , and trembling to her rays . 
Emily , as she approached the lattice , was sensible of the features of this scene only as they served to bring Valancourt more immediately to her fancy . 
said she , with a heavy sigh , as she threw herself into a chair by the window , `` how often have we sat together in this spot -- often have looked upon that landscape ! 
Her tears were suddenly stopped by terror -- a voice spoke near her in the pavilion ; she shrieked -- it spoke again , and she distinguished the well known tones of Valancourt . 
It was indeed Valancourt who supported her in his arms ! 
`` Emily ! '' 
said Valancourt at length , as he pressed her hand in his , `` Emily ! '' 
and he was again silent , but the accent , in which he had pronounced her name , expressed all his tenderness and sorrow . 
`` O my Emily ! '' 
he resumed , after a long pause , `` I do then see you once again , and hear again the sound of that voice ! 
Emily said something , she scarcely knew what , expressive of her unalterable affection , and endeavoured to calm the agitation of his mind ; but Valancourt could for some time only utter incoherent expressions of his emotions ; and , when he was somewhat more composed , he said , `` I came hither , soon after sun-set , and have been watching in the gardens , and in this pavilion ever since ; for , though I had now given up all hope of seeing you , I could not resolve to tear myself from a place so near to you , and should probably have lingered about the chateau till morning dawned . 
O Emily ! 
Emily 's heart acknowledged the truth of this assertion , but the joy she felt on thus meeting Valancourt , at the very moment when she was lamenting , that they must probably meet no more , soon melted into grief , as reflection stole over her thoughts , and imagination prompted visions of the future . 
She struggled to recover the calm dignity of mind , which was necessary to support her through this last interview , and which Valancourt found it utterly impossible to attain , for the transports of his joy changed abruptly into those of suffering , and he expressed in the most impassioned language his horror of this separation , and his despair of their ever meeting again . 
Emily wept silently as she listened to him , and then , trying to command her own distress , and to sooth his , she suggested every circumstance that could lead to hope . 
But the energy of his fears led him instantly to detect the friendly fallacies , which she endeavoured to impose on herself and him , and also to conjure up illusions too powerful for his reason . 
`` You are going from me , '' said he , `` to a distant country , O how distant ! 
His voice was stifled by sighs . 
`` You believe , then , '' said Emily , `` that the pangs I suffer proceed from a trivial and temporary interest ; you believe -- '' `` Suffer ! '' 
O Emily -- how sweet -- how bitter are those words ; what comfort , what anguish do they give ! 
Then seeming to recollect himself , he exclaimed , `` But what a wretch am I , thus to torture you , and in these moments , too ! 
This reflection overcame Valancourt with tenderness , but , relapsing into despondency , he again felt only for himself , and lamented again this cruel separation , in a voice and words so impassioned , that Emily could no longer struggle to repress her own grief , or to sooth his . 
Valancourt , between these emotions of love and pity , lost the power , and almost the wish , of repressing his agitation ; and , in the intervals of convulsive sobs , he , at one moment , kissed away her tears , then told her cruelly , that possibly she might never again weep for him , and then tried to speak more calmly , but only exclaimed , `` O Emily -- my heart will break ! 
O Emily ! 
His voice trembled , and he was silent ; Emily continued to weep , and was silent also , when Valancourt proceeded to propose an immediate marriage , and that , at an early hour on the following morning , she should quit Madame Montoni 's house , and be conducted by him to the church of the Augustines , where a friar should await to unite them . 
The silence , with which she listened to a proposal , dictated by love and despair , and enforced at a moment , when it seemed scarcely possible for her to oppose it ; -- when her heart was softened by the sorrows of a separation , that might be eternal , and her reason obscured by the illusions of love and terror , encouraged him to hope , that it would not be rejected . 
`` Speak , my Emily ! '' 
She spoke not ; her cheek was cold , and her senses seemed to fail her , but she did not faint . 
To Valancourt 's terrified imagination she appeared to be dying ; he called upon her name , rose to go to the chateau for assistance , and then , recollecting her situation , feared to go , or to leave her for a moment . 
After a few minutes , she drew a deep sigh , and began to revive . 
The conflict she had suffered , between love and the duty she at present owed to her father 's sister ; her repugnance to a clandestine marriage , her fear of emerging on the world with embarrassments , such as might ultimately involve the object of her affection in misery and repentance ; -- all this various interest was too powerful for a mind , already enervated by sorrow , and her reason had suffered a transient suspension . 
But duty , and good sense , however hard the conflict , at length , triumphed over affection and mournful presentiment ; above all , she dreaded to involve Valancourt in obscurity and vain regret , which she saw , or thought she saw , must be the too certain consequence of a marriage in their present circumstances ; and she acted , perhaps , with somewhat more than female fortitude , when she resolved to endure a present , rather than provoke a distant misfortune . 
With a candour , that proved how truly she esteemed and loved him , and which endeared her to him , if possible , more than ever , she told Valancourt all her reasons for rejecting his proposals . 
Those , which influenced her concerning his future welfare , he instantly refuted , or rather contradicted ; but they awakened tender considerations for her , which the frenzy of passion and despair had concealed before , and love , which had but lately prompted him to propose a clandestine and immediate marriage , now induced him to renounce it . 
The triumph was almost too much for his heart ; for Emily 's sake , he endeavoured to stifle his grief , but the swelling anguish would not be restrained . 
`` O Emily ! '' 
said he , `` I must leave you -- I must leave you , and I know it is for ever . '' 
Convulsive sobs again interrupted his words , and they wept together in silence , till Emily , recollecting the danger of being discovered , and the impropriety of prolonging an interview , which might subject her to censure , summoned all her fortitude to utter a last farewell . 
Emily , much agitated , did not leave Valancourt , but she led him from the pavilion , and , as they walked upon the terrace , he proceeded as follows : `` This Montoni : I have heard some strange hints concerning him . 
`` I have no reason to doubt either , '' replied Emily , in a voice of alarm . 
Think , Emily , what I must suffer to see you depart for a foreign country , committed to the power of a man of such doubtful character as is this Montoni ! 
Yet , Emily , consider well before you resolve to commit yourself to him . 
Valancourt walked upon the terrace with hurried steps , while Emily remained leaning on the balustrade in deep thought . 
The information she had just received excited , perhaps , more alarm than it could justify , and raised once more the conflict of contrasted interests . 
She had never liked Montoni . 
The fire and keenness of his eye , its proud exultation , its bold fierceness , its sullen watchfulness , as occasion , and even slight occasion , had called forth the latent soul , she had often observed with emotion ; while from the usual expression of his countenance she had always shrunk . 
From such observations she was the more inclined to believe , that it was this Montoni , of whom the Italian had uttered his suspicious hints . 
The thought of being solely in his power , in a foreign land , was terrifying to her , but it was not by terror alone that she was urged to an immediate marriage with Valancourt . 
The tenderest love had already pleaded his cause , but had been unable to overcome her opinion , as to her duty , her disinterested considerations for Valancourt , and the delicacy , which made her revolt from a clandestine union . 
With Valancourt , whose imagination was now awake to the suggestion of every passion ; whose apprehensions for Emily had acquired strength by the mere mention of them , and became every instant more powerful , as his mind brooded over them -- with Valancourt no second conquest was attainable . 
He thought he saw in the clearest light , and love assisted the fear , that this journey to Italy would involve Emily in misery ; he determined , therefore , to persevere in opposing it , and in conjuring her to bestow upon him the title of her lawful protector . 
`` Emily ! '' 
said he , with solemn earnestness , `` this is no time for scrupulous distinctions , for weighing the dubious and comparatively trifling circumstances , that may affect our future comfort . 
O Emily ! 
Emily only sighed , while Valancourt proceeded to remonstrate and to entreat with all the energy that love and apprehension could inspire . 
But , as his imagination magnified to her the possible evils she was going to meet , the mists of her own fancy began to dissipate , and allowed her to distinguish the exaggerated images , which imposed on his reason . 
She considered , that there was no proof of Montoni being the person , whom the stranger had meant ; that , even if he was so , the Italian had noticed his character and broken fortunes merely from report ; and that , though the countenance of Montoni seemed to give probability to a part of the rumour , it was not by such circumstances that an implicit belief of it could be justified . 
These considerations would probably not have arisen so distinctly to her mind , at this time , had not the terrors of Valancourt presented to her such obvious exaggerations of her danger , as incited her to distrust the fallacies of passion . 
But , while she endeavoured in the gentlest manner to convince him of his error , she plunged him into a new one . 
`` Emily ! '' 
Emily , no ! 
`` We have now little time to waste in exclamation , or assertion , '' said Emily , endeavouring to conceal her emotion : `` if you are yet to learn how dear you are , and ever must be , to my heart , no assurances of mine can give you conviction . '' 
The last words faltered on her lips , and her tears flowed fast . 
Those words and tears brought , once more , and with instantaneous force , conviction of her love to Valancourt . 
He could only exclaim , `` Emily ! 
Emily ! 
`` and weep over the hand he pressed to his lips ; but she , after some moments , again roused herself from the indulgence of sorrow , and said , `` I must leave you ; it is late , and my absence from the chateau may be discovered . 
`` Try to moderate these transports , '' said Emily , `` for my sake , try . '' 
`` Yes , for my sake , '' replied Emily , in a tremulous voice , `` I can not leave you thus ! '' 
`` I am , indeed I am , unequal to these moments , '' replied Emily , `` you tear my heart , but I never can consent to this hasty , imprudent proposal ! '' 
`` If we could command our time , my Emily , it should not be thus hasty ; we must submit to circumstances . '' 
Forgive me , Emily ! 
Tears again interrupted his voice , and Emily wept with him . 
My Emily -- my own Emily ! 
-- protect and bless her ! '' 
He pressed her hand to his heart . 
Emily sunk almost lifeless on his bosom ; and neither wept , nor spoke . 
Valancourt , now commanding his own distress , tried to comfort and re-assure her , but she appeared totally unaffected by what he said , and a sigh , which she uttered , now and then , was all that proved she had not fainted . 
He supported her slowly towards the chateau , weeping and speaking to her ; but she answered only in sighs , till , having reached the gate , that terminated the avenue , she seemed to have recovered her consciousness , and , looking round , perceived how near they were to the chateau . 
`` We must part here , '' said she , stopping , `` Why prolong these moments ? 
said Emily faintly . 
O Emily ! 
Valancourt again pressed her to his heart , and held her there in silence , weeping . 
Tears once again calmed her oppressed mind . 
Valancourt seemed to force himself from the spot ; he passed hastily up the avenue , and Emily , as she moved slowly : towards the chateau , heard his distant steps . 
She listened to the sounds , as they sunk fainter and fainter , till the melancholy stillness of night alone remained ; and then hurried to her chamber , to seek repose , which , alas ! 
was fled from her wretchedness . 
The carriages were at the gates at an early hour ; the bustle of the domestics , passing to and fro in the galleries , awakened Emily from harassing slumbers : her unquiet mind had , during the night , presented her with terrific images and obscure circumstances , concerning her affection and her future life . 
She now endeavoured to chase away the impressions they had left on her fancy ; but from imaginary evils she awoke to the consciousness of real ones . 
Recollecting that she had parted with Valancourt , perhaps for ever , her heart sickened as memory revived . 
But she tried to dismiss the dismal forebodings that crowded on her mind , and to restrain the sorrow which she could not subdue ; efforts which diffused over the settled melancholy of her countenance an expression of tempered resignation , as a thin veil , thrown over the features of beauty , renders them more interesting by a partial concealment . 
But Madame Montoni observed nothing in this countenance except its unusual paleness , which attracted her censure . 
She told her niece , that she had been indulging in fanciful sorrows , and begged she would have more regard for decorum , than to let the world see that she could not renounce an improper attachment ; at which Emily 's pale cheek became flushed with crimson , but it was the blush of pride , and she made no answer . 
As Emily passed them , she saw the spot where she had parted with Valancourt on the preceding night : the remembrance pressed heavily on her heart , and she turned hastily away from the object that had awakened it . 
The baggage being at length adjusted , the travellers entered their carriages , and Emily would have left the chateau without one sigh of regret , had it not been situated in the neighbourhood of Valancourt 's residence . 
From a little eminence she looked back upon Tholouse , and the far-seen plains of Gascony , beyond which the broken summits of the Pyrenées appeared on the distant horizon , lighted up by a morning sun . 
said she to herself , `` how long may it be ere I see ye again , and how much may happen to make me miserable in the interval ! 
The trees , that impended over the high banks of the road and formed a line of perspective with the distant country , now threatened to exclude the view of them ; but the blueish mountains still appeared beyond the dark foliage , and Emily continued to lean from the coach window , till at length the closing branches shut them from her sight . 
Another object soon caught her attention . 
She had scarcely looked at a person who walked along the bank , with his hat , in which was the military feather , drawn over his eyes , before , at the sound of wheels , he suddenly turned , and she perceived that it was Valancourt himself , who waved his hand , sprung into the road , and through the window of the carriage put a letter into her hand . 
He endeavoured to smile through the despair that overspread his countenance as she passed on . 
The remembrance of that smile seemed impressed on Emily 's mind for ever . 
She leaned from the window , and saw him on a knoll of the broken bank , leaning against the high trees that waved over him , and pursuing the carriage with his eyes . 
He waved his hand , and she continued to gaze till distance confused his figure , and at length another turn of the road entirely separated him from her sight . 
Having stopped to take up Signor Cavigni at a chateau on the road , the travellers , of whom Emily was disrespectfully seated with Madame Montoni 's woman in a second carriage , pursued their way over the plains of Languedoc . 
The presence of this servant restrained Emily from reading Valancourt 's letter , for she did not choose to expose the emotions it might occasion to the observation of any person . 
Yet such was her wish to read this his last communication , that her trembling hand was every moment on the point of breaking the seal . 
At length they reached the village , where they staid only to change horses , without alighting , and it was not till they stopped to dine , that Emily had an opportunity of reading the letter . 
Though she had never doubted the sincerity of Valancourt 's affection , the fresh assurances she now received of it revived her spirits ; she wept over his letter in tenderness , laid it by to be referred to when they should be particularly depressed , and then thought of him with much less anguish than she had done since they parted . 
Among some other requests , which were interesting to her , because expressive of his tenderness , and because a compliance with them seemed to annihilate for a while the pain of absence , he entreated she would always think of him at sun-set . 
You know not , Emily , the comfort I promise myself from these moments ; but I trust you will experience it . '' 
It is unnecessary to say with what emotion Emily , on this evening , watched the declining sun , over a long extent of plains , on which she saw it set without interruption , and sink towards the province which Valancourt inhabited . 
After this hour her mind became far more tranquil and resigned , than it had been since the marriage of Montoni and her aunt . 
Emily 's mind was even so much engaged with new and wonderful images , that they sometimes banished the idea of Valancourt , though they more frequently revived it . 
These brought to her recollection the prospects among the Pyrenées , which they had admired together , and had believed nothing could excel in grandeur . 
How often did she wish to express to him the new emotions which this astonishing scenery awakened , and that he could partake of them ! 
Sometimes too she endeavoured to anticipate his remarks , and almost imagined him present . 
She seemed to have arisen into another world , and to have left every trifling thought , every trifling sentiment , in that below ; those only of grandeur and sublimity now dilated her mind , and elevated the affections of her heart . 
With what emotions of sublimity , softened by tenderness , did she meet Valancourt in thought , at the customary hour of sun-set , when , wandering among the Alps , she watched the glorious orb sink amid their summits , his last tints die away on their snowy points , and a solemn obscurity steal over the scene ! 
And when the last gleam had faded , she turned her eyes from the west with somewhat of the melancholy regret that is experienced after the departure of a beloved friend ; while these lonely feelings were heightened by the spreading gloom , and by the low sounds , heard only when darkness confines attention , which make the general stillness more impressive -- leaves shook by the air , the last sigh of the breeze that lingers after sun-set , or the murmur of distant streams . 
The snow was not yet melted on the summit of Mount Cenis , over which the travellers passed ; but Emily , as she looked upon its clear lake and extended plain , surrounded by broken cliffs , saw , in imagination , the verdant beauty it would exhibit when the snows should be gone , and the shepherds , leading up the midsummer slocks from Piedmont , to pasture on its flowery summit , should add Arcadian figures to Arcadian landscape . 
As she descended on the Italian side , the precipices became still more tremendous , and the prospects still more wild and majestic , over which the shifting lights threw all the pomp of colouring . 
Emily delighted to observe the snowy tops of the mountains under the passing influence of the day , blushing with morning , glowing with the brightness of noon , or just tinted with the purple evening . 
As Emily gazed upon one of these périlous bridges , with the cataract foaming beneath it , some images came to her mind , which she afterwards combined in the following . 
Emily , often as she travelled among the clouds , watched in silent awe their billowy surges rolling below ; sometimes , wholly closing upon the scene , they appeared like a world of chaos , and , at others , spreading thinly , they opened and admitted partial catches of the landscape -- the torrent , whose astounding roar had never failed , tumbling down the rocky chasm , huge cliffs white with snow , or the dark summits of the pine forests , that stretched mid-way down the mountains . 
But who may describe her rapture , when , having passed through a sea of vapour , she caught a first view of Italy ; when , from the ridge of one of those tremendous precipices that hang upon Mount Cenis and guard the entrance of that enchanting country , she looked down through the lower clouds , and , as they floated away , saw the grassy vales of Piedmont at her feet , and , beyond , the plains of Lombardy extending to the farthest distance , at which appeared , on the faint horizon , the doubtful towers of Turin ? 
The solitary grandeur of the objects that immediately surrounded her , the mountain-region towering above , the deep precipices that fell beneath , the waving blackness of the forests of pine and oak , which skirted their feet , or hung within their recesses , the headlong torrents that , dashing among their cliffs , sometimes appeared like a cloud of mist , at others like a sheet of ice -- these were features which received a higher character of sublimity from the reposing beauty of the Italian landscape below , stretching to the wide horizon , where the same melting blue tint seemed to unite earth and sky . 
Madame Montoni only shuddered as she looked down precipices near whose edge the chairmen trotted lightly and swiftly , almost , as the chamois bounded , and from which Emily too recoiled ; but with her fears were mingled such various emotions of delight , such admiration , astonishment , and awe , as she had never experienced before . 
The subject brought to Emily 's imagination the disasters he had suffered in this bold and perilous adventure . 
She saw his vast armies winding among the defiles , and over the tremendous cliffs of the mountains , which at night were lighted up by his fires , or by the torches which he caused to be carried when he pursued his indefatigable march . 
In the eye of fancy , she perceived the gleam of arms through the duskiness of night , the glitter of spears and helmets , and the banners floating dimly on the twilight ; while now and then the blast of a distant trumpet echoed along the defile , and the signal was answered by a momentary clash of arms . 
She looked with horror upon the mountaineers , perched on the higher cliffs . 
assailing the troops below with broken fragments of the mountain ; on soldiers and elephants tumbling headlong down the lower precipices ; and , as she listened to the rebounding rocks , that followed their fall , the terrors of fancy yielded to those of reality , and she shuddered to behold herself on the dizzy height , whence she had pictured the descent of others . 
Madame Montoni , meantime , as she looked upon Italy , was contemplating in imagination the splendour of palaces and the grandeur of castles , such as she believed she was going to be mistress of at Venice and in the Apennine , and she became , in idea , little less than a princess . 
Being no longer under the alarms which had deterred her from giving entertainments to the beauties of Tholouse , whom Montoni had mentioned with more eclat to his own vanity than credit to their discretion , or regard to truth , she determined to give concerts , though she had neither ear nor taste for music ; conversazioni , though she had no talents for conversation ; and to outvie , if possible , in the gaieties of her parties and the magnificence of her liveries , all the noblesse of Venice . 
This blissful reverie was somewhat obscured , when she recollected the Signor , her husband , who , though he was not averse to the profit which sometimes results from such parties , had always shewn a contempt of the frivolous parade that sometimes attends them ; till she considered that his pride might be gratified by displaying , among his own friends , in his native city , the wealth which he had neglected in France ; and she courted again the splendid illusions that had charmed her before . 
The river Doria , which , rising on the summit of Mount Cenis , had dashed for many leagues over the precipices that bordered the road , now began to assume a less impetuous , though scarcely less romantic character , as it approached the green vallies of Piedmont , into which the travellers descended with the evening sun ; and Emily found herself once more amid the tranquil beauty of pastoral scenery ; among flocks and herds , and slopes tufted with woods of lively verdure and with beautiful shrubs , such as she had often seen waving luxuriantly over the alps above . 
The verdure of the pasturage , now varied with the hues of early flowers , among which were yellow ranunculuses and pansey violets of delicious fragrance , she had never seen excelled . 
-- Emily almost wished to become a peasant of Piedmont , to inhabit one of the pleasant embowered cottages which she saw peeping beneath the cliffs , and to pass her careless hours among these romantic landscapes . 
To the hours , the months , she was to pass under the dominion of Montoni , she looked with apprehension ; while those which were departed she remembered with regret and sorrow . 
In the present scenes her fancy often gave her the figure of Valancourt , whom she saw on a point of the cliffs , gazing with awe and admiration on the imagery around him ; or wandering pensively along the vale below , frequently pausing to look back upon the scenery , and then , his countenance glowing with the poet 's fire , pursuing his way to some overhanging height . 
When she again considered the time and the distance that were to separate them , that every step she now took lengthened this distance , her heart sunk , and the surrounding landscape charmed her no more . 
The heights which command it had , since the invention of artillery , rendered its fortifications useless ; but these romantic heights , seen by moon-light , with the town below , surrounded by its walls and watch-towers , and partially illumined , exhibited an interesting picture to Emily . 
Here they rested for the night at an inn , which had little accommodation to boast of ; but the travellers brought with them the hunger that gives delicious flavour to the coarsest viands , and the weariness that ensures repose ; and here Emily first caught a strain of Italian music , on Italian ground . 
As she sat after supper at a little window , that opened upon the country , observing an effect of the moon-light on the broken surface of the mountains , and remembering that on such a night as this she once had sat with her father and Valancourt , resting upon a cliff of the Pyrenées , she heard from below the long-drawn notes of a violin , of such tone and delicacy of expression , as harmonized exactly with the tender emotions she was indulging , and both charmed and surprised her . 
Cavigni , who approached the window , smiled at her surprise . 
Emily , as she listened , thought he could be scarcely less than a professor of music whom she heard ; and the sweet and plaintive strains soon lulled her into a reverie , from which she was very unwillingly roused by the raillery of Cavigni , and by the voice of Montoni , who gave orders to a servant to have the carriages ready at an early hour on the following morning ; and added , that he meant to dine at Turin . 
Madame Montoni was exceedingly rejoiced to be once more on level ground ; and , after giving a long detail of the various terrors she had suffered , which she forgot that she was describing to the companions of her dangers , she added a hope , that she should soon be beyond the view of these horrid mountains , `` which all the world , '' said she , `` should not tempt me to cross again . '' 
Complaining of fatigue she soon retired to rest , and Emily withdrew to her own room , when she understood from Annette , her aunt 's woman , that Cavigni was nearly right in his conjecture concerning the musician , who had awakened the violin with so much taste , for that he was the son of a peasant , inhabiting the neighbouring valley . 
Emily agreed with the talkative Annette , that this young man was making a change for the worse , and could not forbear silently lamenting , that he should be drawn from the innocence and beauty of these scenes , to the corrupt ones of that voluptuous city . 
When she was alone , unable to sleep , the landscapes of her native home , with Valancourt , and the circumstances of her departure , haunted her fancy ; she drew pictures of social happiness amidst the grand simplicity of nature , such as she feared she had bade farewel to for ever ; and then , the idea of this young Piedmontese , thus ignorantly sporting with his happiness , returned to her thoughts , and , glad to escape awhile from the pressure of nearer interests , she indulged her fancy in composing the following lines . 
The general magnificence of that city , with its vistas of churches and palaces , branching from the grand square , each opening to a landscape of the distant Alps or Apennines , was not only such as Emily had never seen in France , but such as she had never imagined . 
Of Emily he took little notice . 
Emily observed , that , at the mention of any daring exploit , Montoni 's eyes lost their sullenness , and seemed instantaneously to gleam with fire ; yet they still retained somewhat of a lurking cunning , and she sometimes thought that their fire partook more of the glare of malice than the brightness of valour , though the latter would well have harmonized with the high chivalric air of his figure , in which Cavigni , with all his gay and gallant manners , was his inferior . 
On entering the Milanese , the gentlemen exchanged their French hats for the Italian cap of scarlet cloth , embroidered ; and Emily was somewhat surprised to observe , that Montoni added to his the military plume , while Cavigni retained only the feather : which was usually worn with such caps : but she at length concluded , that Montoni assumed this ensign of a soldier for convenience , as a means of passing with more safety through a country over-run with parties of the military . 
Emily turned her eyes with a sigh from these painful vestiges of contention , to the Alps of the Grison , that overlooked them to the north , whose awful solitudes seemed to offer to persecuted man a secure asylum . 
A faint strain of martial music now stole by , and , gradually strengthening as the troops approached , Emily distinguished the drums and trumpets , with the clash of cymbals and of arms , that were struck by a small party , in time to the march . 
The captain himself soon after arriving , his bands halted while he conversed with Montoni , whom he appeared much rejoiced to see ; and from what he said , Emily understood that this was a victorious army , réturning into their own principality ; while the numerous waggons , that accompanied them , contained the rich spoils of the enemy , their own wounded soldiers , and the prisoners they had taken in battle , who were to be ransomed when the peace , then negociating between the neighbouring states , should be ratified . 
Emily , as these officers conversed with Montoni , observed with admiration , tinctured with awe , their high martial air , mingled with the haughtiness of the noblesse of those days , and heightened by the gallantry of their dress , by the plumes towering on their caps , the armorial coat , Persian sash , and ancient Spanish cloak . 
The travellers proceeded without any interruption ; but it was some hours after sunset before they arrived at Verona , whose beautiful environs were therefore not seen by Emily till the following morning ; when , leaving that pleasant town at an early hour , they set off for Padua , where they embarked on the Brenta for Venice . 
Emily gazed with admiration on the villas of the Venetian noblesse , with their cool porticos and colonnades , overhung with poplars and cypresses of majestic height and lively verdure ; on their rich orangeries , whose blossoms perfumed the air , and on the luxuriant willows , that dipped their light leaves in the wave , and sheltered from the sun the gay parties whose music came at intervals on the breeze . 
Emily was sometimes diverted by his conversation ; but his gaiety did not entertain Madame Montoni , as it had formerly done ; she was frequently grave , and Montoni retained his usual reserve . 
Nothing could exceed Emily 's admiration , on her first view of Venice , with its islets , palaces , and towers rising out of the sea , whose clear surface reflected the tremulous picture in all its colours . 
Emily 's eyes filled with tears of admiration and sublime devotion , as she raised them over the sleeping world to the vast heavens , and heard the notes of solemn music , that stole over the waters from a distance . 
She listened in still rapture , and no person of the party broke the charm by an enquiry . 
thought Emily , as she sighed and remembered Valancourt , those strains come from the heart ! 
She looked round , with anxious enquiry ; the deep twilight , that had fallen over the scene , admitted only imperfect images to the eye , but , at some distance on the sea , she thought she perceived a gondola : a chorus of voices and instruments now swelled on the air -- so sweet , so solemn ! 
It brought to Emily 's recollection some lines of her late father , and she repeated in a low voice , -- Oft I hear , Upon the silence of the midnight air , Celestial voices swell in holy chorus That bears the soul to heaven ! 
Emily , however , long indulged the pleasing sadness , that had stolen upon her spirits ; but the gay and busy scene that appeared , as the barge approached St. Mark 's Place , at length roused her attention . 
Emily gazed , and listened , and thought herself in a fairy scene ; even Madame Montoni was pleased ; Montoni congratulated himself on his return to Venice , which he called the first city in the world , and Cavigni was more gay and animated than ever . 
And here , other forms of beauty and of grandeur , such as her imagination had never painted , were unfolded to Emily in the palaces of Sansovino and Palladio , as she glided along the waves . 
From the portico they passed a noble hall to a staircase of marble , which led to a saloon , fitted up in a style of magnificence that surprised Emily . 
Emily , considering the gloomy temper of Montoni , looked upon the splendid furniture of his house with surprise , and remembered the report of his being a man of broken fortune , with astonishment . 
said she to herself , `` if Valancourt could but see this mansion , what peace would it give him ! 
Emily , who was charmed with every thing she saw , endeavoured to enliven her ; but reflection had not , with Madame Montoni , subdued caprice and ill-humour , and her answers discovered so much of both , that Emily gave up the attempt of diverting her , and withdrew to a lattice , to amuse herself with the scene without , so new and so enchanting . 
The first object that attracted her notice was a group of dancers on the terrace below , led by a guitar , and some other instruments . 
At a little distance from the portico they stopped , and Emily distinguished the verses of Ariosto . 
Emily , as she listened , caught the pensive enthusiasm ; her tears flowed silently , while her fancy bore her far away to France and to Valancourt . 
Each succeeding sonnet , more full of charming sadness than the last , seemed to bind the spell of melancholy : with extreme regret she saw the musicians move on , and her attention followed the strain till the last faint warble died in air . 
She then remained sunk in that pensive tranquillity which soft music leaves on the mind -- a state like that produced by the view of a beautiful landscape by moonlight , or by the recollection of scenes marked with the tenderness of friends lost for ever , and with sorrows , which time has mellowed into mild regret . 
Other sounds soon awakened her attention : it was the solemn harmony of horns , that swelled from a distance ; and , observing the gondolas arrange themselves along the margin of the terraces , she threw on her veil , and , stepping into the balcony , discerned , in the distant perspective of the canal , something like a procession , floating on the light surface of the water : as it approached , the horns and other instruments mingled sweetly , and soon after the fabled deities of the city seemed to have arisen from the ocean ; for Neptune , with Venice personified as his queen , came on the undulating waves , surrounded by tritons and sea-nymphs . 
The fantastic splendour of this spectacle , together with the grandeur of the surrounding palaces , appeared like the vision of a poet suddenly embodied , and the fanciful images , which it awakened in Emily 's mind ; lingered there long after the procession had passed away . 
She indulged herself in imagining what might be the manners and delights of a sea-nymph , till she almost wished to throw off the habit of mortality , and plunge into the green wave to participate them . 
`` How delightful , '' said she , `` to live amidst the coral bowers and crystal caverns of the ocean , with my sister nymphs , and listen to the sounding waters above , and to the soft shells of the tritons ! 
She was recalled from her reverie to a mere mortal supper , and could not forbear smiling at the fancies she had been indulging , and at her conviction of the serious displeasure , which Madame Montoni would have expressed , could she have been made acquainted with them . 
After supper , her aunt sat late , but Montoni did not return , and she at length retired to rest . 
If Emily had admired the magnificence of the saloon , she was not less surprised , on observing the half-furnished and forlorn appearance of the apartments she passed in the way to her chamber , whither she went through long suites of noble rooms , that seemed , from their desolate aspect , to have been unoccupied for many years . 
At length she reached her own chamber , spacious , desolate , and lofty , like the rest , with high lattices that opened towards the Adriatic . 
It brought gloomy images to her mind , but the view of the Adriatic soon gave her others more airy , among which was that of the sea-nymph , whose delights she had before amused herself with picturing ; and , anxious to escape from serious reflections , she now endeavoured to throw her fanciful ideas into a train , and concluded the hour with composing the following lines : Montoni and his companion did not return home , till many hours after the dawn had blushed upon the Adriatic . 
The haughty sullenness of her countenance and manner , and the ostentatious extravagance of her dress , for she had not yet adopted the Venetian habit , were strikingly contrasted by the beauty , modesty , sweetness and simplicity of Emily , who observed , with more attention than pleasure , the party around her . 
The beauty and fascinating manners of Signora Livona , however , won her involuntary regard ; while the sweetness of her accents and her air of gentle kindness awakened with Emily those pleasing affections , which so long had slumbered . 
Emily sat , given up to pensive and sweet emotions . 
The smoothness of the water , over which she glided , its reflected images -- a new heaven and trembling stars below the waves , with shadowy outlines of towers and porticos , conspired with the stillness of the hour , interrupted only by the passing wave , or the notes of distant music , to raise those emotions to enthusiasm . 
As she listened to the measured sound of the oars , and to the remote warblings that came in the breeze , her softened mind returned to the memory of St. Aubert and to Valancourt , and tears stole to her eyes . 
The rays of the moon , strengthening as the shadows deepened , soon after threw a silvery gleam upon her countenance , which was partly shaded by a thin black veil , and touched it with inimitable softness . 
Hers was the contour of a Madona , with the sensibility of a Magdalen ; and the pensive uplifted eye , with the tear that glittered on her cheek , confirmed the expression of the character . 
The Count Morano , who sat next to Emily , and who had been observing her for some time in silence , snatched up a lute , and struck the chords with the finger of harmony herself , while his voice , a fine tenor , accompanied them in a rondeau full of tender sadness . 
When he had concluded , he gave the lute with a sigh to Emily , who , to avoid any appearance of affectation , immediately began to play . 
She sung a melancholy little air , one of the popular songs of her native province , with a simplicity and pathos that made it enchanting . 
But its well-known melody brought so forcibly to her fancy the scenes and the persons , among which she had often heard it , that her spirits were overcome , her voice trembled and ceased -- and the strings of the lute were struck with a disordered hand ; till , ashamed of the emotion she had betrayed , she suddenly passed on to a song so gay and airy , that the steps of the dance seemed almost to echo to the notes . 
burst instantly from the lips of her delighted auditors , and she was compelled to repeat the air . 
Among the compliments that followed , those of the Count were not the least audible , and they had not concluded , when Emily gave the instrument to Signora Livona , whose voice accompanied it with true Italian taste . 
Afterwards the Count , Emily , Cavigni , and the Signora , sung canzonettes , accompanied by a couple of lutes and a few other instruments . 
Meanwhile , Montoni , who was weary of this harmony , was considering how he might disengage himself from his party , or withdraw with such of it as would be willing to play , to a Casino . 
In a pause of the music , he proposed returning to shore , a proposal which Orsino eagerly seconded , but which the Count and the other gentlemen as warmly opposed . 
Without troubling himself longer about an excuse , he seized this opportunity of going thither , and , committing the ladies to the care of his friends , departed with Orsino , while Emily , for the first time , saw him go with regret ; for she considered his presence a protection , though she knew not what she should fear . 
Meanwhile , the Count having secretly dispatched a servant in Montoni 's boat , for his own gondola and musicians , Emily heard , without knowing his project , the gay song of gondolieri approaching , as they sat on the stern of the boat ; and saw the tremulous gleam of the moon-light wave , which their oars disturbed . 
Presently she heard the sound of instruments , and then a full symphony swelled on the air , and , the boats meeting , the gondolieri hailed each other . 
While they partook of a collation of fruits and ice , the whole band , following at a distance , in the other boat , played the most sweet and enchanting strains , and the Count , who had again seated himself by Emily , paid her unremitted attention , and sometimes , in a low but impassioned voice , uttered compliments which she could not misunderstand . 
To avoid them she conversed with Signora Livona , and her manner to the Count assumed a mild reserve , which , though dignified , was too gentle to repress his assiduities : he could see , hear , speak to no person , but Emily , while Cavigni observed him now and then , with a look of displeasure , and Emily , with one of uneasiness . 
She now wished for nothing so much as to return to Venice , but it was near midnight before the gondolas approached St. Mark 's Place , where the voice of gaiety and song was loud . 
If any thing could have dissipated Emily 's uneasiness , it would have been the grandeur , gaiety , and novelty of the surrounding scene , adorned with Palladio 's palaces , and busy with parties of masqueraders . 
At length they withdrew to the Casino , which was fitted up with infinite taste , and where a splendid banquet was prepared ; but here Emily 's reserve made the Count perceive , that it was necessary for his interest to win the favour of Madame Montoni , which , from the condescension she had already shewn to him , appeared to be an achievement of no great difficulty . 
He transferred , therefore , part of his attention from Emily to her aunt , who felt too much flattered by the distinction even to disguise her emotion ; and , before the party broke up , he had entirely engaged the esteem of Madame Montoni . 
Whenever he addressed her , her ungracious countenance relaxed into smiles , and to whatever he proposed she assented . 
He invited her , with the rest of the party , to take coffee , in his box at the opera , on the following evening , and Emily heard the invitation accepted , with strong anxiety , concerning the means of excusing herself from attending Madame Montoni thither . 
It was very late before their gondola was ordered , and Emily 's surprise was extreme , when , on quitting the Casino , she beheld the broad sun rising out of the Adriatic , while St. Mark 's Place was yet crowded with company . 
Sleep had long weighed heavily on her eyes , but now the fresh seabreeze revived her , and she would have quitted the scene with regret , had not the Count been present , performing the duty , which he had imposed upon himself , of escorting them home . 
There they heard that Montoni was not yet returned ; and his wife , retiring in displeasure to her apartment , at length released Emily from the fatigue of further attendance . 
In the evening , Madame Montoni , who , during the day , had observed a sullen silence towards her husband , received visits from some Venetian ladies , with whose sweet manners Emily was particularly charmed . 
Madame , though she had no taste for such conversation , and whose coarseness and selfishness sometimes exhibited a ludicrous contrast to their excessive refinement , could not remain wholly insensible to the captivations of their manner . 
Emily , retiring a little from the company , sketched her figure , with the miniature scenery around her , and drew a very interesting picture , which , though it would not , perhaps , have borne criticism , had spirit and taste enough to awaken both the fancy and the heart . 
When she had finished it , she presented it to the beautiful original , who was delighted with the offering , as well as the sentiment it conveyed , and assured Emily , with a smile of captivating sweetness , that she should preserve it as a pledge of her friendship . 
The cool breeze , the glassy sea , the gentle sound of its waves , and the sweeter murmur of distant music ; the lofty porticos and arcades , and the happy groups that sauntered beneath them ; these , with every feature and circumstance of the scene , united to charm Emily , no longer teased by the officious attentions of Count Morano . 
But , as she looked upon the moon-light sea , undulating along the walls of St. Mark , and , lingering for a moment over those walls , caught the sweet and melancholy song of some gondolier as he sat in his boat below , waiting for his master , her softened mind returned to the memory of her home , of her friends , and of all that was dear in her native country . 
He sought Emily with a look of impatient delight , who , remembering all the attention he had shewn her on the preceding evening , was compelled , as before , to shrink from his assiduities into a timid reserve , except when she conversed with Signora Herminia and the other ladies of her party . 
It was near midnight before they withdrew to the opera , where Emily was not so charmed but that , when she remembered the scene she had just quitted , she felt how infinitely inferior all the splendour of art is to the sublimity of nature . 
Her heart was not now affected , tears of admiration did not start to her eyes , as when she viewed the vast expanse of ocean , the grandeur of the heavens , and listened to the rolling waters , and to the faint music that , at intervals , mingled with their roar . 
Remembering these , the scene before her faded into insignificance . 
Of the evening , which passed on without any particular incident , she wished the conclusion , that she might escape from the attentions of the Count ; and , as opposite qualities frequently attract each other in our thoughts , thus Emily , when she looked on Count Morano , remembered Valancourt , and a sigh sometimes followed the recollection . 
Emily was amused by the manners and scenes that surrounded her , so different from those of France , but where Count Morano , too frequently for her comfort , contrived to introduce himself . 
His manner , figure and accomplishments , which were generally admired , Emily would , perhaps , have admired also , had her heart been disengaged from Valancourt , and had the Count forborne to persecute her with officious attentions , during which she observed some traits in his character , that prejudiced her against whatever might otherwise be good in it . 
Emily had observed with concern , that , since they left France , Montoni had not even affected kindness towards her aunt , and that , after treating her , at first , with neglect , he now met her with uniform illhumour and reserve . 
She had never supposed , that her aunt 's foibles could have escaped the discernment of Montoni , or that her mind or figure were of a kind to deserve his attention . 
Her surprise , therefore , at this match , had been extreme ; but since he had made the choice , she did not suspect that he would so openly have discovered his contempt of it . 
But Montoni , who had been allured by the seeming wealth of Madame Cheron , was now severely disappointed by her comparative poverty , and highly exasperated by the deceit she had employed to conceal it , till concealment was no longer necessary . 
Emily listened to the mention of this journey with pleasure , for she not only expected from it new ideas , but a release from the persevering assiduities of Count Morano . 
In the country , too , she would have leisure to think of Valancourt , and to indulge the melancholy , which his image , and a recollection of the scenes of La Vallée , always blessed with the memory of her parents , awakened . 
The ideal scenes were dearer , and more soothing to her heart , than all the splendour of gay assemblies ; they were a kind of talisman that expelled the poison of temporary evils , and supported her hopes of happy days : they appeared like a beautiful landscape , lighted up by a gleam of sun-shine , and seen through a perspective of dark and rugged rocks . 
But Count Morano did not long confine himself to silent assiduities ; he declared his passion to Emily , and made proposals to Montoni , who encouraged , though Emily rejected , him : with Montoni for his friend , and an abundance of vanity to delude him , he did not despair of success . 
Emily was astonished and highly disgusted at his perseverance , after she had explained her sentiments with a frankness that would not allow him to misunderstand them . 
He now passed the greater part of his time at Montoni 's , dining there almost daily , and attending Madame and Emily wherever they went ; and all this , notwithstanding the uniform reserve of Emily , whose aunt seemed as anxious as Montoni to promote this marriage ; and would never dispense with her attendance at any assembly where the Count proposed to be present . 
Montoni now said nothing of his intended journey , of which Emily waited impatiently to hear ; and he was seldom at home but when the Count , or Signor Orsino , was there , for between himself and Cavigni a coolness seemed to subsist , though the latter remained in his house . 
There was somewhat of privacy , too , in the manner of Orsino 's visits , which had never before occurred , and which excited not only surprise , but some degree of alarm in Emily 's mind , who had unwillingly discovered much of his character when he had most endeavoured to disguise it . 
Emily observed these written characters of his thoughts with deep interest , and not without some degree of awe , when she considered that she was entirely in his power ; but forbore even to hint her fears , or her observations , to Madame Montoni , who discerned nothing in her husband , at these times , but his usual sternness . 
Emily received , about the same period , a much more interesting letter , and which soothed for a while every anxiety of her heart . 
Valancourt , hoping she might be still at Venice , had trusted a letter to the ordinary post , that told her of his health , and of his unceasing and anxious affection . 
He had lingered at Tholouse for some time after her departure , that he might indulge the melancholy pleasure of wandering through the scenes where he had been accustomed to behold her , and had thence gone to his brother 's chateau , which was in the neighbourhood of La Vallée . 
You will guess the motive that first induced me to make myself known to Theresa : it was , indeed , no other than that of gaining admittance into the chateau and gardens , which my Emily had so lately inhabited : here , then , I wander , and meet your image under every shade : but chiefly I love to sit beneath the spreading branches of your favourite plane , where once , Emily , we sat together ; where I first ventured to tell you , that I loved . 
O Emily ! 
O Emily ! 
O Emily ! 
This letter brought many tears to Emily 's eyes ; tears of tenderness and satisfaction on learning that Valancourt was well , and that time and absence had in no degree effaced her image from his heart . 
There were passages in this letter which particularly affected her , such as those describing his visits to La Vallée , and the sentiments of delicate affection that its scenes had awakened . 
It was a considerable time before her mind was sufficiently abstracted from Valancourt to feel the force of his intelligence concerning La Vallée . 
Quesnel should let it , without even consulting her on the measure , both surprised and shocked her , particularly as it proved the absolute authority he thought himself entitled to exercise in her affairs . 
It is true , he had proposed , before she left France , that the chateau should be let , during her absence , and to the oeconomical prudence of this she had nothing to object ; but the committing what had been her father 's villa to the power and caprice of strangers , and the depriving herself of a sure home , should any unhappy circumstances make her look back to her home as an asylum , were considerations that made her , even then , strongly oppose the measure . 
Her father , too , in his last hour , had received from her a solemn promise never to dispose of La Vallée ; and this she considered as in some degree violated if she suffered the place to be let . 
It appeared , also , that he had not even condescended to inform Montoni of the step he had taken , since no motive was evident for Montoni 's concealing the circumstance from her , if it had been made known to him : this both displeased and surprised her ; but the chief subjects of her uneasiness were -- the temporary disposal of La Vallée , and the dismission of her father 's old and faithful servant . 
-- `` Poor Theresa , '' said Emily , `` thou hadst not saved much in thy servitude , for thou wast always tender towards the poor , and believed ` st thou shouldst die in the family , where thy best years had been spent . 
Emily wept bitterly as these thoughts passed over her mind , and she determined to consider what could be done for Theresa , and to talk very explicitly to M. Quesnel on the subject ; but she much feared that his cold heart could feel only for itself . 
Quesnel , '' said he when Emily appeared , `` in reply to the letter I received from him a few days ago , and I wished to talk to you upon a subject that occupied part of it . '' 
`` I also wished to speak with you on this topic , sir , '' said Emily . 
`` Granting this , sir , '' replied Emily , modestly , `` those of humanity ought surely to be attended to . 
Emily wrote on the opposite page of the paper as follows : `` It is now useless , sir , for me to remonstrate upon the circumstances of which Signor Montoni informs me that he has written . 
In the meantime I entreat you will take care of Theresa , for the sake of , Sir , Your affectionate niece , Emily St. Aubert . '' 
Montoni smiled satirically at what Emily had written , but did not object to it , and she withdrew to her own apartment , where she sat down to begin a letter to Valancourt , in which she related the particulars of her journey , and her arrival at Venice , described some of the most striking scenes in the passage over the Alps ; her emotions on her first view of Italy ; the manners and characters of the people around her , and some few circumstances of Montoni 's conduct . 
But she avoided even naming Count Morano , much more the declaration he had made , since she well knew how tremblingly alive to fear is real love , how jealously watchful of every circumstance that may affect its interest ; and she scrupulously avoided to give Valancourt even the slightest reason for believing he had a rival . 
He was in an uncommon flow of spirits , and Emily thought there was somewhat of exultation in his manner of addressing her , which she had never observed before . 
She endeavoured to repress this by more than her usual reserve , but the cold civility of her air now seemed rather to encourage than to depress him . 
He appeared watchful of an opportunity of speaking with her alone , and more than once solicited this ; but Emily always replied , that she could hear nothing from him which he would be unwilling to repeat before the whole company . 
In the evening , Madame Montoni and her party went out upon the sea , and as the Count led Emily to his zendaletto , he carried her hand to his lips , and thanked her for the condescension she had shewn him . 
Emily , in extreme surprise and displeasure , hastily withdrew her hand , and concluded that he had spoken ironically ; but , on reaching the steps of the terrace , and observing by the livery , that it was the Count 's zendaletto , which waited below , while the rest of the party , having arranged themselves in the gondolas , were moving on , she determined not to permit a separate conversation , and , wishing him a good evening , returned to the portico . 
The Count followed to expostulate and entreat , and Montoni , who then came out , rendered solicitation unnecessary , for , without condescending to speak , he took her hand , and led her to the zendaletto . 
Emily was not silent ; she entreated Montoni , in a low voice , to consider the impropriety of these circumstances , and that he would spare her the mortification of submitting to them ; he , however , was inflexible . 
At this moment , Emily 's dislike of Count Morano arose to abhorrence . 
That he should , with undaunted assurance , thus pursue her , notwithstanding all she had expressed on the subject of his addresses , and think , as it was evident he did , that her opinion of him was of no consequence , so long as his pretensions were sanctioned by Montoni , added indignation to the disgust which she had felt towards him . 
She was somewhat relieved by observing that Montoni was to be of the party , who seated himself on one side of her , while Morano placed himself on the other . 
There was a pause of some moments as the gondolieri prepared their oars , and Emily trembled from apprehension of the discourse that might follow this silence . 
At length she collected courage to break it herself , in the hope of preventing fine speeches from Morano , and reproof from Montoni . 
To some trivial remark which she made , the latter returned a short and disobliging reply ; but Morano immediately followed with a general observation , which he contrived to end with a particular compliment , and , though Emily passed it without even the notice of a smile , he was not discouraged . 
`` I have been impatient , '' said he , addressing Emily , `` to express my gratitude ; to thank you for your goodness ; but I must also thank Signor Montoni , who has allowed me this opportunity of doing so . '' 
Emily regarded the Count with a look of mingled astonishment and displeasure . 
You can not doubt the sincerity , the ardour of my passion ; it is therefore unnecessary , charming Emily ! 
`` If I ever had disguised them , sir , '' said Emily , with recollected spirit , `` it would certainly be unnecessary any longer to do so . 
`` I must certainly mistake you , sir , '' said Emily ; `` my answers on the subject have been uniform ; it is unworthy of you to accuse me of caprice . 
`` Such a question is unworthy of an answer , swer , sir ; '' said Emily blushing ; you will recollect yourself , and be sorry that you have asked it . '' 
continued Montoni , observing the silence and confusion of Emily . 
`` What could it be , but the noble offer of Count Morano , '' said Montoni `` Then , sir , we entirely misunderstood each other , '' replied Emily . 
Emily tried to restrain the tears that came to her eyes , and to answer with becoming firmness , `` Allow me , sir , to explain myself fully , or to be wholly silent . '' 
`` Signor Montoni has said justly , '' replied Emily , `` that all explanation may now be dispensed with ; after what has passed I can not suffer myself to give one . 
`` Charming Emily ! '' 
`` All conversation on this subject , sir , '' said Emily , `` is worse than useless , since it can bring only pain to each of us : if you would oblige me , pursue it no farther . '' 
This sarcasm roused the pride of Morano , and the resentment which he had felt at the indifference of Emily , being lost in indignation of the insolence of Montoni ; he determined to mortify him , by defending her . 
Montoni smiled contemptuously ; and Emily , now terrified for the consequences of what she saw and heard , could no longer be silent . 
She explained the whole subject upon which she had mistaken Montoni in the morning , declaring , that she understood him to have consulted her solely concerning the disposal of La Vallée , and concluding with entreating , that he would write immediately to M. Quesnel , and rectify the mistake . 
While she was speaking , however , the attention of her auditors had been diverted from the immediate occasion of their resentment , and their passion consequently became less . 
Emily , comforted by this prospect of release , employed the present moments in endeavouring , with conciliating care , to prevent any fatal mischief between the persons who so lately had persecuted and insulted her . 
Her spirits revived , when she heard once more the voice of song and laughter , resounding from the grand canal , and at length entered again between its stately piazzas . 
The zendaletto stopped at Montoni 's mansion , and the Count hastily led her into the hall , where Montoni took his arm , and said something in a low voice , on which Morano kissed the hand he held , notwithstanding Emily 's effort to disengage it , and , wishing her a good evening , with an accent and look she could not misunderstand , returned to his zendaletto with Montoni . 
Emily , in her own apartment , considered with intense anxiety all the unjust and tyrannical conduct of Montoni , the dauntless perseverance of Morano , and her own desolate situation , removed from her friends and country . 
She looked in vain to Valancourt , confined by his profession to a distant kingdom , as her protector ; but it gave her comfort to know , that there was , at least , one person in the world , who would sympathize in her afflictions , and whose wishes would fly eagerly to release her . 
Yet she determined not to give him unavailing pain by relating the reasons she had to regret the having rejected his better judgment concerning Montoni ; reasons , however , which could not induce her to lament the delicacy and disinterested affection that had made her reject his proposal for a clandestine marriage . 
The approaching interview with her uncle she regarded with some degree of hope , for she determined to represent to him the distresses of her situation , and to entreat that he would allow her to return to France with him and Madame Quesnel . 
Then , suddenly remembering that her beloved La Vallée , her only home , was no longer at her command , her tears flowed anew , and she feared that she had little pity to expect from a man who , like M. Quesnel , could dispose of it without deigning to consult with her , and could dismiss an aged and faithful servant , destitute of either support or asylum . 
But , though it was certain , that she had herself no longer a home in France , and few , very few friends there , she determined to return , if possible , that she might be released from the power of Montoni , whose particularly oppressive conduct towards herself , and general character as to others , were justly terrible to her imagination . 
She had no wish to reside with her uncle , M. Quesnel , since his behaviour to her late father and to herself , had been uniformly such as to convince her , that in flying to him she could only obtain an exchange of oppressors ; neither had she the slightest intention of consenting to the proposal of Valancourt for an immediate marriage , though this would give her a lawful and a generous protector , for the chief reasons , which had formerly influenced her conduct , still existed against it , while others , which seemed to justify the step , would now be done away ; and his interest , his fame were at all times too dear to her , to suffer her to consent to a union , which , at this early period of their lives , would probably defeat both . 
One sure , and proper asylum , however , would still be open to her in France . 
She knew that she could board in the convent , where she had formerly experienced so much kindness , and which had an affecting and solemn claim upon her heart , since it contained the remains of her late father . 
Here she could remain in safety and tranquillity , till the term , for which La Vallée might be let , should expire ; or , till the arrangement of M. Motteville 's affairs enabled her so far to estimate the remains of her fortune , as to judge whether it would be prudent for her to reside there . 
Concerning Montoni 's conduct with respect to his letters to M. Quesnel , she had many doubts ; however he might be at first mistaken on the subject , she much suspected that he wilfully persevered in his error , as a means of intimidating her into a compliance with his wishes of uniting her to Count Morano . 
Whether this was or was not the fact , she was extremely anxious to explain the affair to M. Quesnel , and looked forward with a mixture of impatience , hope and fear , to her approaching visit . 
On the following day , Madame Montoni , being alone with Emily , introduced the mention of Count Morano , by expressing her surprise , that she had not joined the party on the water the preceding evening , and at her abrupt departure to Venice . 
Emily then related what had passed , expressed her concern for the mutual mistake that had occurred between Montoni and herself , and solicited her aunt 's kind offices in urging him to give a decisive denial to the Count 's further addresses ; but she soon perceived , that Madame Montoni had not been ignorant of the late conversation , when she introduced the present . 
`` You have no encouragement to expect from me , '' said her aunt , `` in these notions . 
`` Not any whatever , Madam , '' replied Emily , `` and , therefore , at least , suffer me to be happy in my humility . '' 
Emily , somewhat embarrassed by the indignation , which this malevolent allusion to her father excited , and by the difficulty of rendering her answer as temperate as it should be reprehensive ; hesitated for some moments , in a confusion , which highly gratified her aunt . 
At length she said , `` My father 's pride , Madam , had a noble object -- the happiness which he knew could be derived only from goodness , knowledge and charity . 
`` That would indeed not be wisdom , but folly , '' said Emily , `` for wisdom can boast no higher attainment than happiness ; but you will allow , Madam , that our ideas of happiness may differ . 
Emily was too much shocked by these reflections on her father 's memory , to despise this speech as it deserved . 
Madame Montoni was about to speak , but Emily quitted the room , and retired to her own , where the little spirit she had lately exerted yielded to grief and vexation , and left her only to her tears . 
From every review of her situation she could derive , indeed , only new sorrow . 
To the discovery , which had just been forced upon her , of Montoni 's unworthiness , she had now to add , that of the cruel vanity , for the gratification of which her aunt was about to sacrifice her ; of the effrontery and cunning , with which , at the time that she meditated the sacrifice , she boasted of her tenderness , or insulted her victim ; and of the venomous envy , which , as it did not scruple to attack her father 's character , could scarcely be expected to withhold from her own . 
During the few days , that intervened between this conversation and the departure for Miarenti , Montoni did not once address himself to Emily . 
His looks sufficiently declared his resentment ; but that he should forbear to renew a mention of the subject of it , exceedingly surprised her , who was no less astonished , that , during three days , Count Morano neither visited Montoni , or was named by him . 
Several conjectures arose in her mind . 
Sometimes she feared that the dispute between them had been revived , and had ended fatally to the Count . 
Sometimes she was inclined to hope , that weariness , or disgust at her firm rejection of his suit had induced him to relinquish it ; and , at others , she suspected that he had now recourse to stratagem , and forbore his visits , and prevailed with Montoni to forbear the repetition of his name , in the expectation that gratitude and generosity would prevail with her to give him the consent , which he could not hope from love . 
Emily sat alone near the stern of the vessel , and , as it floated slowly on , watched the gay and lofty city lessening from her view , till its palaces seemed to sink in the distant waves , while its loftier towers and domes , illumined by the declining sun , appeared on the horizon , like those far-seen clouds which , in more northern climes , often linger on the western verge , and catch the last light of a summer 's evening . 
Soon after , even these grew dim , and saded in distance from her sight ; but she still sat gazing on the vast scene of cloudless sky , and mighty waters , and listening in pleasing awe to the deep-sounding waves , while , as her eyes glanced over the Adriatic , towards the opposite shores , which were , however , far beyond the reach of sight , she thought of Greece , and , a thousand classical remembrances stealing to her mind , she experienced that pensive luxury which is felt on viewing the scenes of ancient story , and on comparing their present state of silence and solitude with that of their former grandeur and animation . 
The scenes of the Illiad illapsed in glowing colours to her fancy -- scenes , once the haunt of heroes -- now lonely , and in ruins ; but which still shone , in the poet 's strain , in all their youthful splendour . 
As her imagination painted with melancholy touches , the deserted plains of Troy , such as they appeared in this after-day , she reanimated the landscape with the following little story . 
As Emily approached the shores of Italy she began to discriminate the rich features and varied colouring of the landscape -- the purple hills , groves of orange pine and cypress , shading magnificent villas , and towns rising among vineyards and plantations . 
The noble Brenta , pouring its broad waves into the sea , now appeared , and , when she reached its mouth , the barge stopped , that the horses might be fastened which were to tow it up the stream . 
This done , Emily gave a last look to the Adriatic , and to the dim sail , -- `` That from the sky-mix 'd wave `` Dawns on the sight , '' and the barge slowly glided between the green and luxuriant slopes of the river . 
The sun now sunk below the horizon , twilight fell over the landscape , and Emily , wrapt in musing silence , continued to watch its features gradually vanishing into obscurity . 
She remembered her many happy evenings , when with St. Aubert she had observed the shades of twilight steal over a scene as beautiful as this , from the gardens of La Vallée , and a tear fell to the memory of her father . 
Her spirits were softened into melancholy by the influence of the hour , by the low murmur of the wave passing under the vessel , and the stillness of the air , that trembled only at intervals with distant music : -- why else should she , at these moments , have looked on her attachment to Valancourt with presages so very afflicting , since she had but lately received letters from him , that had soothed for a while all her anxieties ? 
It now seemed to her oppressed mind , that she had taken leave of him for ever , and that the countries , which separated them , would never more be re-traced by her . 
She looked upon Count Morano with horror , as in some degree the cause of this ; but apart from him , a conviction , if such that may be called , which arises from no proof , and which she knew not how to account for , seized her mind -- that she should never see Valancourt again . 
Though she knew , that neither Morano 's solicitations , nor Montoni 's commands had lawful power to enforce her obedience , she regarded both with a superstitious dread , that they would finally prevail . 
Lost in this melancholy reverie , and shedding frequent tears , Emily was at length roused by Montoni , and she followed him to the cabin , where refreshments were spread , and her aunt was seated alone . 
The countenance of Madame Montoni was inflamed with resentment , that appeared to be the consequence of some conversation she had held with her husband , who regarded her with a kind of sullen disdain , and both preserved , for some time , a haughty silence . 
Montoni then spoke to Emily of Mons . 
`` I had hoped , sir , that it was no longer necessary for me to disclaim it , '' said Emily , `` I had hoped , from your silence , that you was convinced of your error . '' 
Emily blushed , and was silent ; she now perceived too clearly , that she had hoped an impossibility , for , where no mistake had been committed no conviction could follow ; and it was evident , that Montoni 's conduct had not been the consequence of mistake , but of design . 
Anxious to escape from conversation , which was both afflicting and humiliating to her , she soon returned to the deck , and resumed her station near the stern , without apprehension of cold , for no vapour rose from the water , and the air was dry and tranquil ; here , at least , the benevolence of nature allowed her the quiet which Montoni had denied her elsewhere . 
The stars shed a kind of twilight , that served to shew the dark outline of the shores on either hand , and the grey surface of the river ; till the moon rose from behind a high palm grove , and shed her mellow lustre over the scene . 
The vessel glided smoothly on : amid the stillness of the hour Emily heard , now and then , the solitary voice of the barge-men on the bank , as they spoke to their horses ; while , from a remote part of the vessel , with melancholy song , -- `` The sailor sooth 'd , Beneath the trembling moon , the midnight wave . '' 
Emily , meanwhile , anticipated her reception by Mons . 
and Madame Quesnel ; considered what she should say on the subject of La Vallée ; and then , to with-hold her mind from more anxious topics , tried to amuse herself by discriminating the faintdrawn features of the landscape , reposing in the moon-light . 
While her fancy thus wandered , she saw , at a distance , a building peeping between the moon-light trees , and , as the barge approached , heard voices speaking , and soon distinguished the lofty portico of a villa , overshadowed by groves of pine and sycamore , which she recollected to be the same , that had formerly been pointed out to her , as belonging to Madame Quesnel 's relative . 
Montoni sent forward his servant , and then disembarked with his family . 
Emily was now accustomed to the way of living in this warm country , and was not surprised to find Mons . 
When the bustle of this meeting had subsided , and Emily had recovered from the little flutter into which it had thrown her spirits , she was struck with the singular beauty of the hall , so perfectly accommodated to the luxuries of the season . 
Emily , however , still attended to Madame Quesnel , who spoke of France -LRB- for even the name of her native country was dear to her -RRB- and she found some pleasure in looking at a person , who had lately been in it . 
That country , too , was inhabited by Valancourt , and she listened to the mention of it , with a faint hope , that he also would be named . 
Madame Quesnel , who , when she was in France , had talked with rapture of Italy , now , that she was in Italy , talked with equal praise of France , and endeavoured to excite the wonder and the envy of her auditors by accounts of places , which they had not been happy enough to see . 
In these descriptions she not only imposed upon them , but upon herself , for she never thought a present pleasure equal to one , that was passed ; and thus the delicious climate , the fragrant orangeries and all the luxuries , which surrounded her , slept unnoticed , while her fancy wandered over the distant scenes of a northern country . 
Emily listened in vain for the name of Valancourt . 
Madame Montoni spoke in her turn of the delights of Venice , and of the pleasure she expected from visiting the fine castle of Montoni , on the Apennine ; which latter mention , at least , was merely a retaliating boast , for Emily well knew , that her aunt had no taste for solitary grandeur , and , particularly , for such as the castle of Udolpho promised . 
The landscape no longer gleamed ; all its glowing colours were revealed , except that its remoter features were still softened and united in the mist of distance , whose sweet effect was heightened to Emily by the dark verdure of the pines and cypresses , that over-arched the fore-ground of the river . 
When Montoni and M. Quesnel had joined the ladies , the party left the portico for the gardens , where the charming scenery soon withdrew Emily 's thoughts from painful subjects . 
The majestic forms and rich verdure of cypresses she had never seen so perfect before : groves of cedar , lemon , and orange , the spiry clusters of the pine and poplar , the luxuriant chesnut and oriental plane , threw all their pomp of shade over these gardens ; while bowers of flowering myrtle and other spicy shrubs mingled their fragrance with that of flowers , whose vivid and various colouring glowed with increased effect beneath the contrasted umbrage of the groves . 
Emily often lingered behind the party , to contemplate the distant landscape , that closed a vista , or that gleamed beneath the dark foliage of the foreground ; -- the spiral summits of the mountains , touched with a purple tint , broken and steep above , but shelving gradually to their base ; the open valley , marked by no formal lines of art ; and the tall groves of cypress , pine and poplar , sometimes embellished by a ruined villa , whose broken columns appeared between the branches of a pine , that seemed to droop over their fall . 
Emily seized the first opportunity of conversing alone with Mons . 
His answers to her enquiries were concise , and delivered with the air of a man , who is conscious of possessing absolute power and impatient of hearing it questioned . 
He declared , that the disposal of the place was a necessary measure ; and that she might consider herself indebted to his prudence for even the small income that remained for her . 
For some moments Emily was chilled into silence by this speech ; and , when she attempted to undeceive him , concerning the purport of the note she had inclosed in Montoni 's letter , he appeared to have some private reason for disbelieving her assertion , and , for a considerable time , persevered in accusing her of capricious conduct . 
Being , at length , however , convinced , that she really disliked Morano and had positively rejected his suit , his resentment was extravagant , and he expressed it in terms equally pointed and inhuman ; for , secretly flattered by the prospect of a connection with a nobleman , whose title he had affected to forget , he was incapable of feeling pity for whatever sufferings of his niece might stand in the way of his ambition . 
Emily saw at once in his manner all the difficulties , that awaited her , and , though no oppression could have power to make her renounce Valancourt for Morano , her fortitude now trembled at an encounter with the violent passions of her uncle . 
She opposed his turbulence and indignation only by the mild dignity of a superior mind ; but the gentle firmness of her conduct served to exasperate still more his resentment , since it compelled him to feel his own inferiority , and , when he left her , he declared , that , if she persisted in her folly , both himself and Montoni would abandon her to the contempt of the world . 
The calmness she had assumed in his presence failed Emily , when alone , and she wept bitterly , and called frequently upon the name of her departed father , whose advice to her from his death-bed she then remembered . 
said she , `` I do indeed perceive how much more valuable is the strength of fortitude than the grace of sensibility , and I will also endeavour to fulfil the promise I then made ; I will not indulge in unavailing lamentation , but will try to endure , with firmness , the oppression I can not elude . '' 
Somewhat soothed by the consciousness of performing a part of St. Aubert 's last request , and of endeavouring to pursue the conduct which he would have approved , she overcame her tears , and , when the company met at dinner , had recovered her usual serenity of countenance . 
The state of Emily 's mind was in melancholy contrast with the gay groups assembled beneath the shades that overhung this enchanting stream . 
Emily , when she looked at the snow-capt . 
A pennines , ascending in the distance , thought of Montoni 's castle , and suffered some terror , left he should convey her thither , for the purpose of enforcing her obedience ; but the thought vanished , when she considered , that she was as much in his power at Venice as she could be else where . 
It was moonlight before the party returned to the villa , where supper was spread in the airy hall , which had so much enchanted Emily 's fancy , on the preceding night . 
Quesnel , Montoni and other gentlemen , should join them at table , and Emily endeavoured to resign herself to the tranquillity of the hour . 
Presently , a barge stopped at the steps that led into the gardens , and , soon after , she distinguished the voices of Montoni and Quesnel , and then that of Morano , who , in the next moment , appeared . 
His compliments she received in silence , and her cold air seemed at first to discompose him ; but he soon recovered his usual gaiety of manner , though the officious kindness of M. and Madame Quesnel Emily perceived disgusted him . 
The rejection of his suit she repeated in the most decisive terms she could select , mingling with it a severe censure of his conduct ; but , though the Count appeared mortified by this , he persevered in the most ardent professions of admiration , till he was interrupted and Emily released by the presence of Madame Quesnel . 
During her stay at this pleasant villa , Emily was thus rendered miserable by the assiduities of Morano , together with the cruelly exerted authority of M. Quesnel and Montoni , who , with her aunt , seemed now more resolutely determined upon this marriage than they had even appeared to be at Venice . 
Emily , indeed , looked to Venice with hope , for there she would be relieved in some measure from the persecution of Morano , who would no longer be an inhabitant of the same house with herself , and from that of Montoni , whose engagements would not permit him to be continually at home . 
But amidst the pressure of her own misfortunes , she did not forget those of poor Theresa , for whom she pleaded with courageous tenderness to Quesnel , who promised , in slight and general terms , that she should not be forgotten . 
Montoni , in a long conversation with M.Quesnel , arranged the plan to be pursued respecting Emily , and M.Quesnel proposed to be at Venice , as soon as he should be informed , that the nuptials were concluded . 
It was new to Emily to part with any person , with whom she was connected , without feelings of regret ; the moment , however , in which she took leave of M. and Madame Quesnel , was , perhaps , the only satisfactory one she had known in their presence . 
Morano returned in Montoni 's barge , and Emily , as she watched her gradual approach to that magic city , saw at her side the only person , who occasioned her to view it with less than perfect delight . 
They arrived there about midnight , when Emily was released from the presence of the Count , who , with Montoni , went to a Casino , and she was suffered to retire to her own apartment . 
On the following day , Montoni , in a short conversation , which he held with Emily , informed her , that he would no longer be trifled with , and that , since her marriage with the Count would be so highly advantageous to her , that folly only could object to it , and folly of such extent as was incapable of conviction , it should be celebrated without further delay , and , if that was necessary , without her consent . 
Emily , who had hitherto tried remonstrance , had now recourse to supplication , for distress prevented her from foreseeing , that , with a man of Montoni 's disposition , supplication would be equally useless . 
She afterwards enquired by what right he exerted this unlimited authority over her ? 
a question , which her better judgment would have with-held her , in a calmer moment , from making , since it could avail her nothing , and would afford Montoni another opportunity of triumphing over her defenceless condition . 
Emily continued , for some time after Montoni had left her , in a state of despair , or rather of stupefaction ; a consciousness of misery was all that remained in her mind . 
In this situation Madame Montoni found her , at the sound of whose voice Emily looked up , and her aunt , somewhat softened by the expression of despair , that fixed her countenance , spoke in a manner more kind than she had ever yet done . 
Emily 's heart was touched ; she shed tears , and , after weeping for some time , recovered sufficient composure to speak on the subject of her distress , and to endeavour to interest Madame Montoni in her behalf . 
But , though the compassion of her aunt had been surprised , her ambition was not to be overcome , and her present object was to be the aunt of a Countess . 
Emily 's efforts , therefore , were as unsuccessful as they had been with Montoni , and she withdrew to her apartment to think and weep alone . 
How often did she remember the parting scene with Valancourt , and wish , that the Italian had mentioned Montoni 's character with less reserve ! 
When her mind , however , had recovered from the first shock of this behaviour , she considered , that it would be impossible for him to compel her alliance with Morano , if she persisted in refusing to repeat any part of the marriage ceremony ; and she persevered in her resolution to await Montoni 's threatened vengeance rather than give herself for life to a man , whom she must have despised for his present conduct , had she never even loved Valancourt : yet she trembled at the revenge she thus resolved to brave . 
An affair , however , soon after occurred , which somewhat called off Montoni 's attention from Emily . 
Montoni became more reserved and austere in his manner than ever ; and Emily , if her own interests had not made her regardless of his , might have perceived , that something extraordinary was working in his mind . 
While Orsino remained concealed in his house , Montoni was unwilling to attract public observation by the nuptials of Count Morano ; but this obstacle was , in a few days , overcome by the departure of his criminal visitor , and he then informed Emily , that her marriage was to be celebrated on the following morning . 
To her repeated assurances , that it should not take place , he replied only by a malignant smile ; and , telling her , that the Count and a priest would be at his house , early in the morning , he advised her no further to dare his resentment , by opposition to his will and to her own interest . 
Emily , having , ever since his late threats , expected , that her trials would at length arrive to this crisis , was less shocked by the declaration , than she otherwise would have been , and she endeavoured to support herself by the belief , that the marriage could not be valid , so long as she refused before the priest to repeat any part of the ceremony . 
Yet , as the moment of trial approached , her long-harassed spirits shrunk almost equally from the encounter of his vengeance , and from the hand of Count Morano . 
She was not even perfectly certain of the consequence of her steady refusal at the altar , and she trembled , more than ever , at the power of Montoni , which seemed unlimited as his will , for she saw , that he would not scruple to transgress any law , if , by so doing , he could accomplish his project . 
While her mind was thus suffering and in a state little short of distraction , she was informed that Morano asked permission to see her , and the servant had scarcely departed with an excuse , before she repented that she had sent one . 
In the next moment , reverting to her former design , and determining to try , whether expostulation and entreaty would not succeed , where a refusal and a just disdain had failed , she recalled the servant , and , sending a different message , prepared to go down to the Count . 
The dignity and assumed composure with which she met him , and the kind of pensive resignation , that softened her countenance , were circumstances not likely to induce him to relinquish her , serving , as they did , to heighten a passion , which had already intoxicated his judgment . 
He listened to all she said with an appearance of complacency and of a wish to oblige her ; but his resolution remained invariably the same , and he endeavoured to win her admiration by every insinuating art he so well knew how to practise . 
Being , at length , assured , that she had nothing to hope from his justice , she repeated , in a solemn and impressive pressive manner , her absolute rejection of his suit , and quitted him with an assurance , that her refusal would be effectually maintained against every circumstance , that could be imagined for subduing it . 
A just pride had restrained her tears in his presence , but now they flowed from the fulness of her heart . 
She often called upon the name of her late father , and often dwelt with unutterable anguish on the idea of Valancourt . 
She did not go down to supper , but remained alone in her apartment , sometimes yielding to the influence of grief and terror , and , at others , endeavouring to fortify her mind against them , and to prepare herself to meet , with composed courage , the scene of the following morning , when all the stratagem of Morano and the violence of Montoni would be united against her . 
The evening was far advanced , when Madame Montoni came to her chamber with some bridal ornaments , which the Count had sent to Emily . 
She had , this day , purposely avoided her niece ; perhaps , because her usual insensibility failed her , and she feared to trust herself with a view of Emily 's distress ; or possibly , though her conscience was seldom audible , it now reproached her with her conduct to her brother 's orphan child , whose happiness had been entrusted to her care by a dying father . 
Emily could not look at these presents , and made a last , though almost hopeless , effort to interest the compassion of Madame Montoni , who , if she did feel any degree of pity , or remorse , successfully concealed it , and reproached her niece with folly in being miserable , concerning a marriage , which ought only to make her happy . 
`` I am sure , '' said she , `` if I was unmarried , and the Count had proposed to me , I should have been flattered by the distinction : and if I should have been so , I am sure , niece , you , who have no fortune , ought to feel yourself highly honoured , and shew a proper gratitude and humility towards the Count , for his condescension . 
`` Your patience , madam , can not suffer more cruelly on such occasions , than my own , '' said Emily . 
that is all mere affectation , '' rejoined her aunt . 
said Emily , with a heavy sigh . 
`` I have no ambition whatever , madam , '' replied Emily , `` my only wish is to remain in my present station . '' 
that is speaking quite from the purpose , '' said her aunt , `` I see you are still thinking of Mons . 
Emily made no attempt to reply to this curious speech ; she felt it would be mean , and she knew it would be useless . 
Madame Montoni laid the Count 's presents upon the table , on which Emily was leaning , and then , desiring she would be ready early in the morning , bade her good-night . 
`` Good-night , madam , '' said Emily , with a deep sigh , as the door closed upon her aunt , and she was left once more to her own sad reflections . 
For some time she sat so lost in thought , as to be wholly unconscious where she was ; at length , raising her head , and looking round the room , its gloom and profound stillness awed her . 
She fixed her eyes on the door , through which her aunt had disappeared , and listened anxiously for some sound , that might relieve the deep dejection of her spirits ; but it was past midnight , and all the family , except the servant , who sat up for Montoni , had retired to bed . 
Her mind , long harassed by distress , now yielded to imaginary terrors ; she trembled to look into the obscurity of her spacious chamber , and feared she knew not what ; a state of mind , which continued so long , that she would have called up Annette , her aunt 's woman , had her fears permitted her to rise from her chair , and to cross the apartment . 
These melancholy illusions at length began to disperse , and she retired to her bed , not to sleep , for that was scarcely possible , but to try , at least , to quiet her disturbed fancy , and to collect strength of spirits sufficient to bear her through the scene of the approaching morning . 
Emily was recalled from a kind of slumber , into which she had , at length , sunk , by a quick knocking at her chamber door . 
She started up in terror , for Montoni and Count Morano instantly came to her mind ; but , having listened in silence for some time , and recognising the voice of Annette , she rose and opened the door . 
said Emily , trembling excessively . 
She was unable to support herself , and sat down on the bed . 
said Emily , `` Annette , do not trifle with me ! '' 
cried Emily , almost fainting , `` Count Morano is below , then ! '' 
`` Explain , Annette , explain the meaning of all this before you go , '' said Emily , so overcome with surprise and timid hope , that she had scarcely breath to speak . 
said Emily , `` and whither are we going ? '' 
said Emily , eagerly , `` O ! 
Annette hastened from the room ; and Emily prepared for this unexpected flight as fast as her trembling hands would permit , not perceiving , that any change in her situation could possibly be for the worse . 
She had scarcely thrown her books and clothes into her travelling trunk , when , receiving a second summons , she went down to her aunt 's dressing-room , where she found Montoni impatiently reproving his wife for delay . 
He went out , soon after , to give some further orders to his people , and Emily then enquired the occasion of this hasty journey ; but her aunt appeared to be as ignorant as herself , and to undertake the journey with more reluctance . 
Somewhat revived by observing this , Emily , when the gondolieri dashed their oars in the water , and put off from the steps of the portico , felt like a criminal , who receives a short reprieve . 
Her heart beat yet lighter , when they emerged from the canal into the ocean , and lighter still , when they skimmed past the walls of St. Mark , without having stopped to take up Count Morano . 
Emily did not venture to ask any questions of Montoni , who sat , for some time , in gloomy silence , and then rolled himself up in his cloak , as if to sleep , while Madame Montoni did the same ; but Emily , who could not sleep , undrew one of the little curtains of the gondola , and looked out upon the sea . 
Emily , sunk in tranquil melancholy , watched the strengthening light spreading upon the ocean , shewing successively Venice and her islets , and the shores of Italy , along which boats , with their pointed latin sails , began to move . 
Emily gave a last look to that splendid city , but her mind was then occupied by considering the probable events , that awaited her , in the scenes , to which she was removing , and with conjectures , concerning the motive of this sudden journey . 
It appeared , upon calmer consideration , that Montoni was removing her to his secluded castle , because he could there , with more probability of success , attempt to terrify her into obedience ; or , that , should its gloomy and sequestered scenes fail of this effect , her forced marriage with the Count could there be solemnized with the secrecy , which was necessary to the honour of Montoni . 
The little spirit , which this reprieve had recalled , now began to fail , and , when Emily reached the shore , her mind had sunk into all its former depression . 
Montoni did not embark on the Brenta , but pursued his way in carriages across the country , towards the Apennine ; during which journey , his manner to Emily was so particularly severe , that this alone would have confirmed her late conjecture , had any such confirmation been necessary . 
Her senses were now dead to the beautiful country , through which she travelled . 
Sometimes she was compelled to smile at the naïvete of Annette , in her remarks on what she saw , and sometimes to sigh , as a scene of peculiar beauty recalled Valancourt to her thoughts , who was indeed seldom absent from them , and of whom she could never hope to hear in the solitude , to which she was hastening . 
The gloom of these shades , their solitary silence , except when she breeze swept over their summits , the tremendous precipices of the mountains , that came partially to the eye , each assisted to raise the solemnity of Emily 's feelings into awe ; she saw only images of gloomy grandeur , or of dreadful sublimity , around her ; other images , equally gloomy and equally terrible , gleamed on her imagination . 
She was going she scarcely knew whither , under the dominion of a person , from whose arbitrary disposition she had already suffered so much , to marry , perhaps , a man who possessed neither her affection , or esteem ; or to endure , beyond the hope of succour , whatever punishment revenge , and that Italian revenge , might dictate . 
-- The more she considered what might be the motive of the journey , the more she became convinced , that it was for the purpose of concluding her nuptials with Count Morano , with that secrecy which her resolute resistance had made necessary to the honour , if not to the safety , of Montoni . 
From the deep solitudes , into which she was immerging , and from the gloomy castle , of which she had heard some mysterious hints , her sick heart recoiled in despair , and she experienced , that , though her mind was already occupied by peculiar distress , it was still alive to the influence of new and local circumstance ; why else did she shudder at the idea of this desolate castle ? 
Emily lost , for a moment , her sorrows , in the immensity of nature . 
Emily gazed long on the splendours of the world she was quitting , of which the whole magnificence seemed thus given to her sight only to increase her regret on leaving it ; for her , Valancourt alone was in that world ; to him alone her heart turned , and for him alone fell her bitter tears . 
Emily was often elevated , but seldom felt those emotions of indescribable awe , which she had so continually experienced , in her passage over the Alps . 
To the east , a vista opened , that exhibited the Apennines in their darkest horrors ; and the long perspective of retiring summits , rising over each other , their ridges clothed with pines , exhibited a stronger image of grandeur , than any that Emily had yet seen . 
The sun had just sunk below the top of the mountains she was descending , whose long shadow stretched athwart the valley , but his sloping rays , shooting through an opening of the cliffs , touched with a yellow gleam the summits of the forest , that hung upon the opposite steeps , and streamed in full splendour upon the towers and battlements of a castle , that spread its extensive ramparts along the brow of a precipice above . 
Emily gazed with melancholy awe upon the castle , which she understood to be Montoni 's ; for , though it was now lighted up by the setting sun , the gothic greatness of its features , and its mouldering walls of dark grey stone , rendered it a gloomy and sublime object . 
As she gazed , the light died away on its walls , leaving a melancholy purple tint , which spread deeper and deeper , as the thin vapour crept up the mountain , while the battlements above were still tipped with splendour . 
As the twilight deepened , its features became more awful in obscurity , and Emily continued to gaze , till its clustering towers were alone seen , rising over the tops of the woods , beneath whose thick shade the carriages soon after began to ascend . 
The extent and darkness of these tall woods awakened terrific images in her mind , and she almost expected to see banditti start up from under the trees . 
At length , the carriages emerged upon a heathy rock , and , soon after , reached the castle gates , where the deep tone of the portal bell , which was struck upon to give notice of their arrival , increased the fearful emotions , that had assailed Emily . 
While they waited till the servant within should come to open the gates , she anxiously surveyed the edifice : but the gloom , that overspread it , allowed her to distinguish little more than a part of its outline , with the massy walls of the ramparts , and to know , that it was vast , ancient and dreary . 
From the parts she saw , she judged of the heavy strength and extent of the whole . 
The gateway before her , leading into the courts , was of gigantic size , and was defended by two round towers , crowned by overhanging turrets , embattled , where , instead of banners , now waved long grass and wild plants , that had taken root among the mouldering stones , and which seemed to sigh , as the breeze rolled past , over the desolation around them . 
While Emily gazed with awe upon the scene , footsteps were heard within the gates , and the undrawing of bolts ; after which an ancient servant of the castle appeared , forcing back the huge folds of the portal , to admit his lord . 
As the carriage-wheels rolled heavily under the portcullis , Emily 's heart sunk , and she seemed , as if she was going into her prison ; the gloomy court , into which she passed , served to confirm the idea , and her imagination , ever awake to circumstance , suggested even more terrors , than her reason could justify . 
Another gate delivered them into the second court , grass-grown , and more wild than the first , where , as she surveyed through the twilight its desolation -- its lofty walls , over-topt with briony , moss and nightshade , and the embattled towers that rose above , -- long suffering and murder came to her thoughts . 
One of those instantaneous and unaccountable convictions , which sometimes conquer even strong minds , impressed her with its horror . 
The sentiment was not diminished , when she entered an extensive gothic hall , obscured by the gloom of evening , which a light , glimmering at a distance through a long perspective of arches , only rendered more striking . 
The sudden journey of Montoni had prevented his people from making any other preparations for his reception , than could be had in the short interval , since the arrival of the servant , who had been sent forward from Venice ; and this , in some measure , may account for the air of extreme desolation , that every where appeared . 
-- Montoni noticed the salutation by a slight motion of his hand , and passed on , while his lady , following , and looking round with a degree of surprise and discontent , which she seemed fearful of expressing , and Emily , surveying the extent and grandeur of the hall in timid wonder , approached a marble stair-cafe . 
While he paced the room with thoughtful steps , and Madame Montoni sat silently on a couch , at the upper end of it , waiting till the servant returned , Emily was observing the singular solemnity and desolation of the apartment , viewed , as it now was , by the glimmer of the single lamp , placed near a large Venetian mirror , that duskily reflected the scene , with the tall figure of Montoni passing slowly along , his arms folded , and his countenance shaded by the plume , that waved in his hat . 
From the contemplation of this scene , Emily 's mind proceeded to the apprehension of what she might suffer in it , till the remembrance of Valancourt , far , far distant ! 
came to her heart , and softened it into sorrow . 
A heavy sigh escaped her : but , trying to conceal her tears , she walked away , to one of the high windows , that opened upon the ramparts , below which , spread the woods she had passed in her approach to the castle . 
The scene within , upon which Emily turned on the opening of the door , was scarcely less gloomy . 
Madame Montoni made several attempts at conversation , but his sullen answers repulsed her , while Emily sat endeavouring to acquire courage enough to speak to him . 
At length , in a tremulous voice , she said , `` May I ask , sir , the motive of this sudden journey ? '' 
-- After a long pause , she recovered sufficient courage to repeat the question . 
Emily rose to withdraw . 
`` Good night , madam , '' said she to her aunt , with an assumed composure , that could not disguise her emotion . 
`` Good night , my dear , '' said Madame Montoni , in a tone of kindness , which her niece had never before heard from her ; and the unexpected endearment brought tears to Emily 's eyes . 
She curtsied to Montoni , and was retiring ; `` But you do not know the way to your chamber , '' said her aunt . 
Montoni called the servant , who waited in the anti-room , and bade him send Madame Montoni 's woman , with whom , in a few minutes , Emily withdrew . 
said she to Annette , as they crossed the hall . 
Emily ascended the marble stair-case , and came to the corridor , as they passed through which , Annette resumed her chat -- `` What a wild lonely place this is , ma'am ! 
`` Yes , '' said Emily , smiling , and glad to escape from more serious thought , `` if we come to the corridor , about midnight , and look down into the hall , we shall certainly see it illuminated with a thousand lamps , and the fairies tripping in gay circles to the sound of delicious music ; for it is in such places as this , you know , that they come to hold their revels . 
said Emily , `` you must not indulge such fancies . '' 
`` I hope , '' said Emily , `` you will not suffer Signor Montoni to hear of these weak fears ; they would highly displease him . '' 
Emily did not appear to notice this remark . 
`` That will scarcely be possible , '' said Emily , smiling , as she followed the winding of the passage , which opened into another gallery : and then Annette , perceiving that she had missed her way , while she had been so eloquently haranguing on ghosts and fairies , wandered about through other passages and galleries , till , at length , frightened by their intricacies and desolation , she called aloud for assistance : but they were beyond the hearing of the servants , who were on the other side of the castle , and Emily now opened the door of a chamber on the left . 
`` Bring the light forward , '' said Emily , `` we may possibly find our way through these rooms . '' 
said Emily , `` let me see whither this room leads . '' 
`` They may open upon the great staircase , perhaps , '' said Emily , passing on till she came to a chamber , hung with pictures , and took the light to examine that of a soldier on horseback in a field of battle . 
The soldier , whose beaver was up , regarded him with a look of vengeance , and the countenance , with that expression , struck Emily as resembling Montoni . 
She shuddered , and turned from it . 
Passing the light hastily over several other pictures , she came to one concealed by a veil of black silk . 
The singularity of the circumstance struck her , and she stopped before it , wishing to remove the veil , and examine what could thus carefully be concealed , but somewhat wanting courage . 
said Emily . 
Emily , turning round , saw Annette 's countenance grow pale . 
Annette took the light , and immediately walked away with it , disregarding Emily 's calls to stay , who , not choosing to be left alone in the dark chamber , at length followed her . 
said Emily , when she overtook her , `` what have you heard concerning that picture , which makes you so unwilling to stay when I bid you ? '' 
`` I do n't know what is the reason , ma'amselle , '' replied Annette , `` nor any thing about the picture , only I have heard there is something very dreadful belonging to it -- and that it has been covered up in black ever since -- and that nobody has looked at it for a great many years -- and it somehow has to do with the owner of this castle before Signor Montoni came to the possession of it -- and '' -- -- `` Well , Annette , '' said Emily , smiling , `` I perceive it is as you say -- that you know nothing about the picture . '' 
`` No , nothing , indeed , ma'amselle , for they made me promise never to tell : but '' -- `` Well , '' rejoined Emily , who observed that she was struggling between her inclination to reveal a secret , and her apprehension for the consequence , `` I will enquire no further '' -- `` No , pray , ma'am , do not . '' 
`` Lest you should tell all , '' interrupted Emily . 
Annette blushed , and Emily smiled , and they passed on to the extremity of this suite of apartments , and found themselves , after some farther perplexity , once more at the top of the marble stair-case , where Annette left Emily , while she went to call one of the servants of the castle to shew them to the chamber , for which they had been seeking . 
While she was absent , Emily 's thoughts returned to the picture ; an unwillingness to tamper with the integrity of a servant , had checked her enquiries on this subject , as well as concerning some alarming hints , which Annette had dropped respecting Montoni ; though her curiosity was entirely awakened , and she had perceived , that her questions might easily be answered . 
A servant now appeared with Annette , and conducted Emily to her chamber , which was in a remote part of the castle , and at the end of the very corridor , from whence the suite of apartments opened , through which they had been wandering . 
The lonely aspect of her room made Emily unwilling that Annette should leave her immediately , and the dampness of it chilled her with more than fear . 
She begged Caterina , the servant of the castle , to bring some wood and light a fire . 
Emily waved her hand for Caterina to fetch the wood . 
said Annette , while Emily surveyed it in silence and saw that it was lofty and spacious , like the others she had seen , and , like many of them , too , had its walls lined with dark larch-wood . 
The bed and other furniture was very ancient , and had an air of gloomy grandeur , like all that she had seen in the castle . 
One of the high casements , which she opened , overlooked a rampart , but the view beyond was hid in darkness . 
In the presence of Annette , Emily tried to support her spirits , and to restrain the tears , which , every now and then , came to her eyes . 
She wished much to enquire when Count Morano was expected at the castle , but an unwillingness to ask unnecessary questions , and to mention family concerns to a servant , withheld her . 
She told Annette , that her lady had enquired for her , and Emily was once again left to her own sad reflections . 
Her heart was not yet hardened against the stern manners of Montoni , and she was nearly as much shocked now , as she had been when she first witnessed them . 
The tenderness and affection , to which she had been accustomed , till she lost her parents , had made her particularly sensible to any degree of unkindness , and such a reverse as this no apprehension had prepared her to support . 
To call off her attention from subjects , that pressed heavily upon her spirits , she rose and again examined her room and its furniture . 
As she walked round it , she passed a door , that was not quite shut , and , perceiving , that it was not the one , through which she entered , she brought the light forward to discover whither it led . 
She opened it , and , going forward , had nearly fallen down a steep , narrow stair-case , that wound from it , between two stone walls . 
She wished to know to what it led , and was the more anxious , since it communicated so immediately with her apartment ; but , in the present state of her spirits , she wanted courage to venture into the darkness alone . 
Closing the door , therefore , she endeavoured to fasten it , but , upon further examination , perceived , that it had no bolts on the chamber side , though it had two on the other . 
By placing a heavy chair against it , she in some measure remedied the defect ; yet she was still alarmed at the thought of sleeping in this remote room alone , with a door opening she knew not whither , and which could not be perfectly fastened on the inside . 
Sometimes she wished to entreat of Madame Montoni , that Annette might have leave to remain with her all night , but was deterred by an apprehension of betraying what would be thought childish fears , and by an unwillingness to increase the apt terrors of Annette . 
Having a table near the fire , she made the good girl sit down and sup with her ; and , when their little repast was over , Annette , encouraged by her kindness and stirring the wood into a blaze , drew her chair upon the hearth , nearer to Emily , and said , -- `` Did you ever hear , ma'amselle , of the strange accident , that made the Signor lord of this castle ? '' 
said Emily , concealing the curiosity , occasioned by the mysterious hints she had formerly heard on that subject . 
`` I have heard all about it , ma'amselle , '' said Annette , looking round the chamber and drawing closer to Emily ; `` Benedetto told it me as we travelled together : says he , `` Annette , you do n't know about this castle here , that we are going to ? '' 
`` If you promised to keep this seeret , '' said Emily , `` you do right not to mention it . '' 
Emily smiled , `` I certainly shall keep it as faithfully as yourself , Annette . '' 
said Emily . 
`` It was only the wind , '' said Emily , `` but do come to the end of your story . '' 
said Emily , `` why will you indulge those fancies ? 
said Emily , in much surprise . 
said Emily , `` you say nothing has been since known of her , and yet she has been seen ! '' 
Emily remained silent , and Annette repeated her last sentence . 
`` You have nothing to fear from my indiscretion , '' replied Emily , `` and let me advise you , my good Annette , be discreet yourself , and never mention what you have just told me to any other person . 
`` That is stranger still , Annette , '' said Emily , smiling , and rousing herself from her reverie . 
rejoined Emily , willing to hear further . 
said Emily , trying to laugh away the fears , that began to steal upon her . 
-- and strange sights have been seen there -- '' `` Pr ` ythee , Annette , no more of these silly tales , '' said Emily . 
Emily , whom Annette had now infected with her own terrors , listened attentively ; but every thing was still , and Annette proceeded : `` Caterina went to the north-gallery , that is the wide gallery we passed , ma'am , before we came to the corridor , here . 
said Emily , trembling . 
They listened , and , continuing to sit quite still , Emily heard a low knocking against the wall . 
Emily , though she now perceived who it was , could not immediately overcome her terror ; while Annette , half laughing , half crying , scolded Caterina heartily for thus alarming them ; and was also terrified lest what she had told had been overheard . 
-- Emily , whose mind was deeply impressed by the chief circumstance of Annette 's relation , was unwilling to be left alone , in the present state of her spirits ; but , to avoid offending Madame Montoni , and betraying her own weakness , she struggled to overcome the illusions of fear , and dismissed Annette for the night . 
Emily remembered all that Valancourt had told her , on the eve of her departure from , respecting Montoni , and all that he had said to dissuade her from venturing on the journey . 
His fears had often since appeared to her prophetic -- now they seemed confirmed . 
Her heart , as it gave her back the image of Valancourt , mourned in vain regret , but reason soon came with a consolation , which , though feeble at first , acquired vigour from reflection . 
She considered , that , whatever might be her sufferings , she had withheld from involving him in misfortune , and that , whatever her future sorrows could be , she was , at least , free from self-reproach . 
Her melancholy was assisted by the hollow sighings of the wind along the corridor and round the castle . 
The cheerful blaze of the wood had long been extinguished , and she sat with her eyes fixed on the dying embers , till a loud gust , that swept through the corridor , and shook the doors and casements , alarmed her , for its violence had moved the chair she had placed as a fastening , and the door , leading to the private stair-case , stood half open . 
Her curiosity and her fears were again awakened . 
She took the lamp to the top of the steps , and stood hesitating whether to go down ; but again the profound stillness and the gloom of the place awed her , and , determining to enquire further , when day-light might assist the search , she closed the door , and placed against it a stronger guard . 
She now retired to her bed , leaving the lamp burning on the table ; but its gloomy light , instead of dispelling her fear , assisted it ; for , by its uncertain rays , she almost fancied she saw shapes flit past her curtains and glide into the remote obscurity of her chamber . 
-- The castle clock struck one before she closed her eyes to sleep . 
Daylight dispelled from Emily 's mind the glooms of superstition , but not those of apprehension . 
The Count Morano was the first image , that occurred to her waking thoughts , and then came a train of anticipated evils , which she could neither conquer , or avoid . 
She rose , and , to relieve her mind from the busy ideas , that tormented it , compelled herself to notice external objects . 
From her casement she looked out upon the wild grandeur of the scene , closed nearly on all sides by alpine steeps , whose tops , peeping over each other , faded from the eye in misty hues , while the promontories below were dark with woods , that swept down to their base , and stretched along the narrow vallies . 
The rich pomp of these woods was particularly delightful to Emily ; and she viewed with astonishment the fortifications of the castle spreading along a vast extent of rock , and now partly in decay , the grandeur of the ramparts below , and the towers and battlements and various features of the fabric above . 
From these her sight wandered over the cliffs and woods into the valley , along which foamed a broad and rapid stream , seen falling among the crags of an opposite mountain , now flashing in the sun-beams , and now shadowed by over-arching pines , till it was entirely concealed by their thick foliage . 
Nearer , towards the west , opened the mountainvista , which Emily had viewed with such sublime emotion , on her approach to the castle : a thin dusky vapour , that rose from the valley , overspread its features with a sweet obscurity . 
The features of the vista now appeared distinctly , and the broad deep shadows , that fell from the lower cliffs , gave strong effect to the streaming splendour above ; while the mountains , gradually sinking in the perspective , appeared to shelve into the Adriatic sea , for such Emily imagined to be the gleam of blueish light , that terminated the view . 
Thus she endeavoured to amuse her fancy , and was not unsuccessful . 
The breezy freshness of the morning , too , revived her . 
She raised her thoughts in prayer , which she felt always most disposed to do , when viewing the sublimity of nature , and her mind recovered its strength . 
When she turned from the casement , her eyes glanced upon the door she had so carefully guarded , on the preceding night , and she now determined to examine whither it led ; but , on advancing to remove the chairs , she perceived , that they were already moved a little way . 
Her surprise can not easily be imagined , when , in the next minute , she perceived that the door was fastened . 
-- She felt , as if she had seen an apparition . 
The door of the corridor was locked as she had left it , but this door , which could be secured only on the outside , must have been bolted , during the night . 
She became seriously uneasy at the thought of sleeping again in a chamber , thus liable to intrusion , so remote , too , as it was from the family , and she determined to mention the circumstance to Madame Montoni , and to request a change . 
After some perplexity she found her way into the great hall , and to the room , which she had left , on the preceding night , where breakfast was spread , and her aunt was alone , for Montoni had been walking over the environs of the castle , examining the condition of its fortifications , and talking for some time with Carlo . 
Emily observed , that her aunt had been weeping , and her heart softened towards her , with an affection , that shewed itself in her manner , rather than in words , while she carefully avoided the appearance of having noticed , that she was unhappy . 
She seized the opportunity of Montoni 's absence to mention the circumstance of the door , to request that she might be allowed another apartment , and to enquire again , concerning the occasion of their sudden journey . 
On the first subject her aunt referred her to Montoni , positively refusing to interfere in the affair ; on the last , she professed utter ignorance . 
Emily , then , with a wish of making her aunt more reconciled to her situation , praised the grandeur of the castle and the surrounding scenery , and endeavoured to soften every unpleasing circumstance attending it . 
But , though misfortune had somewhat conquered the asperities of Madame Montoni 's temper , and , by increasing her cares for herself , had taught her to feel in some degree for others , the capricious love of rule , which nature had planted and habit had nourished in her heart , was not subdued . 
She could not now deny herself the gratification of tyrannizing over the innocent and helpless Emily , by attempting to ridicule the taste she could not feel . 
Her satirical discourse was , however , interrupted by the entrance of Montoni , and her countenance immediately assumed a mingled expression of fear and resentment , while he seated himself at the breakfast-table , as if unconscious of there being any person but himself in the room . 
Emily , as she observed him in silence , saw , that his countenance was darker and sterner than usual . 
`` O could I know , '' said she to herself , `` what passes in that mind ; could I know the thoughts , that are known there , I should no longer be condemned to this torturing suspense ! '' 
Their breakfast passed in silence , till Emily ventured to request , that another apartment might be allotted to her , and related the circumstance which made her wish it . 
This explanation was by no means satisfactory to Emily , who had observed , that the bolts were rusted , and consequently could not be thus easily moved ; but she forbore to say so , and repeated her request . 
As he said this , his eye glanced upon Madame Montoni , who coloured highly , but was still silent . 
Emily , wounded and disappointed , thought her fears were , in this instance , too reasonable to deserve ridicule ; but , perceiving , that , however they might oppress her , she must endure them , she tried to withdraw her attention from the subject . 
`` And the young Signora , too , she may like some of them , '' rejoined Carlo , turning with the basket to Emily , `` it will do me good to see her eat some . '' 
`` Thank you , Carlo , '' said Emily , taking some cherries , and smiling kindly . 
Carlo obeyed , and Montoni , soon after , went out to examine further into the state of the castle ; while Emily remained with her aunt , patiently enduring her ill humour , and endeavouring , with much sweetness , to sooth her affliction , instead of resenting its effect . 
When Madame Montoni retired to her dressing-room , Emily endeavoured to amuse herself by a view of the castle . 
Through a folding door , she passed from the great hall to the ramparts , which extended along the brow of the precipice , round three sides of the edifice ; the fourth was guarded by the high walls of the courts , and by the gateway , through which she had passed , on the preceding evening . 
The grandeur of the broad ramparts , and the changing scenery they overlooked , excited her high admiration ; for the extent of the terraces allowed the features of the country to be seen in such various points of view , that they appeared to form new landscapes . 
She often paused to examine the gothic magnificence of Udolpho , its proud irregularity , its lofty towers and battlements , its high-arched casements , and its slender watch-towers , perched upon the corners of turrets . 
Then she would lean on the wall of the terrace , and , shuddering , measure with her eye the precipice below , till the dark summits of the woods arrested it . 
Wherever she turned , appeared mountain-tops , forests of pine and narrow glens , opening among the Apennines and retiring from the sight into inaccessible regions . 
While she thus leaned , Montoni , followed by two men , appeared , ascending a winding path , cut in the rock below . 
-- Emily perceived , that one of these men was Carlo ; the other was in the dress of a peasant , and he alone seemed to be receiving the directions of Montoni . 
She withdrew from the walls , and pursued her walk , till she heard at a distance the sound of carriage wheels , and then the loud bell of the portal , when it instantly occurred to her , that Count Morano was arrived . 
As she hastily passed the folding doors from the terrace , towards her own apartment , several persons entered the hall by an opposite door . 
She saw them at the extremity of the arcades , and immediately retreated ; but the agitation of her spirits , and the extent and duskiness of the hall , had prevented her from distinguishing the persons of the strangers . 
Her fears , however , had but one object , and they had called up that object to her fancy ; -- she believed that she had seen Count Morano . 
When she thought that they had passed the hall , she ventured again to the door , and proceeded , unobserved , to her room , where she remained , agitated with apprehensions , and listening to every distant sound . 
At length , hearing voices on the rampart , she hastened to her window , and observed Montoni , with Signor Cavigni , walking below , conversing earnestly , and often stopping and turning towards each other , at which times their discourse seemed to be uncommonly interesting . 
Of the several persons who had appeared in the hall , here was Cavigni alone : but Emily 's alarm was soon after heightened by the steps of some one in the corridor , who , she apprehended , brought a message from the Count . 
`` Well , then , '' said Emily , with assumed composure , `` it is -- Count Morano , I suppose . '' 
Emily sunk into a chair ; `` Stay , Annette , '' said she , feebly , `` do not leave me -- I shall soon be better ; open the casement . 
said Emily , eagerly . 
You remember Ludovico , ma'am -- a tall , handsome , young man -- Signor Cavigni 's lacquey -- who always wears his cloak with such a grace , thrown round his left arm , and his hat set on so smartly , all on one side , and -- '' `` No , '' said Emily , who was wearied by her loquacity . 
-- `` I fear , to thy peril , my good Annette , '' said Emily ; `` for it seems his verses have stolen thy heart . 
`` It is by a ghost , then , who can draw bolts , '' said Emily , endeavouring to laugh away her apprehensions ; `` for I left that door open , last night , and found it fastened this morning . '' 
She hurried from the room ; without waiting Emily 's reply , whose heart , lightened by the certainty , that Morano was not arrived , allowed her to smile at the superstitious terror , which had seized on Annette ; for , though she sometimes felt its influence herself , she could smile at it , when apparent in other persons . 
Montoni having refused Emily another chamber , she determined to bear with patience the evil she could not remove , and , in order to make the room as comfortable as possible , unpacked her books , her sweet delight in happier days , and her soothing resource in the hours of moderate sorrow : but there were hours when even these failed of their effect ; when the genius , the taste , the enthusiasm of the sublimest writers were felt no longer . 
Her little library being arranged on a high chest , part of the furniture of the room , she took out her drawing utensils , and was tranquil enough to be pleased with the thought of sketching the sublime scenes , beheld from her windows ; but she suddenly checked this pleasure , remembering how often she had soothed herself by the intention of obtaining amusement of this kind , and had been prevented by some new circumstance of misfortune . 
`` How can I suffer myself to be deluded by hope , '' said she , `` and , because Count Morano is not yet arrived , feel a momentary happiness ? 
To withdraw her thoughts , however , from the subject of her misfortunes , she attempted to read , but her attention wandered from the page , and , at length , she threw aside the book , and determined to explore the adjoining chambers of the castle . 
Her imagination was pleased with the view of ancient grandeur , and an emotion of melancholy awe awakened all its powers , as she walked through rooms , obscure and desolate , where no footsteps had passed probably for many years , and remembered the strange history of the former possessor of the edifice . 
This brought to her recollection the veiled picture , which had attracted her curiosity , on the preceding night , and she resolved to examine it . 
As she passed through the chambers , that led to this , she found herself somewhat agitated ; its connection with the late lady of the castle , and the conversation of Annette , together with the circumstance of the veil , throwing a mystery over the subject , that excited a faint degree of terror . 
Emily passed on with faltering steps , and having paused a moment at the door , before she attempted to open it , she then hastily entered the chamber , and went towards the picture , which appeared to be enclosed in a frame of uncommon size , that hung in a dark part of the room . 
She paused again , and then , with a timid hand , lifted the veil ; but instantly let it fall -- perceiving that what it had concealed was no picture , and , before she could leave the chamber , she dropped senseless on the floor . 
When she recovered her recollection , the remembrance of what she had seen had nearly deprived her of it a second time . 
She had scarcely strength to remove from the room , and regain her own ; and , when arrived there , wanted courage to remain alone . 
Horror occupied her mind , and excluded , for a time , all sense of past , and dread of future misfortune : she seated herself near the casement , because from thence she heard voices , though distant , on the terrace , and might see people pass , and these , trifling as they were , were reviving circumstances . 
When her spirits had recovered their tone , she considered , whether she should mention what she had seen to Madame Montoni , and various and important motives urged her to do so , among which the least was the hope of the relief , which an overburdened mind finds in speaking of the subject of its interest . 
But she was aware of the terrible consequences , which such a communication might lead to ; and , dreading the indiscretion of her aunt , at length , endeavoured to arm herself with resolution to observe a profound silence , on the subject . 
Montoni and Verezzi soon after passed under the casement , speaking cheerfully , and their voices revived her . 
Presently the Signors Bertolini and Cavigni joined the party on the terrace , and Emily , supposing that Madame Montoni was then alone , went to seek her ; for the solitude of her chamber , and its proximity to that where she had received so severe a shock , again affected her spirits . 
She found her aunt in her dressing-room , preparing for dinner . 
Emily 's pale and affrighted countenance alarmed even Madame Montoni ; but she had sufficient strength of mind to be silent on the subject , that still made her shudder , and which was ready to burst from her lips . 
In her aunt 's apartment she remained , till they both descended to dinner . 
There she met the gentlemen lately arrived , who had a kind of busy seriousness in their looks , which was somewhat unusual with them , while their thoughts seemed too much occupied by some deep interest , to suffer them to bestow much attention either on Emily , or Madame Montoni . 
Emily , as she now looked on him , shuddered . 
The horror of the chamber rushed on her mind . 
Several times the colour faded from her cheeks , and she feared , that illness would betray her emotions , and compel her to leave the room ; but the strength of her resolution remedied the weakness of her frame ; she obliged herself to converse , and even tried to look cheerful . 
Montoni evidently laboured under some vexation , such as would probably have agitated a weaker mind , or a more susceptible heart , but which appeared , from the sternness of his countenance , only to bend up his faculties to energy and fortitude . 
The gloom of the castle seemed to have spread its contagion even over the gay countenance of Cavigni , and with this gloom was mingled a fierceness , such as she had seldom seen him indicate . 
After dinner , when the servants had withdrawn , Emily learned , that the cavalier , who had drawn upon himself the vengeance of Orsino , had since died of his wounds , and that strict search was still making for his murderer . 
Emily retired with Madame Montoni , soon after the cloth was withdrawn , and left the cavaliers to their secret councils , but not before the significant frowns of Montoni had warned his wife to depart , who passed from the hall to the ramparts , and walked for some time , in silence , which Emily did not interrupt , for her mind was also occupied by interests of its own . 
It required all her resolution , to forbear communicating to Madame Montoni the terrible subject , which still thrilled her every nerve with horror ; and sometimes she was on the point of doing so , merely to obtain the relief of a moment ; but she knew how wholly she was in the power of Montoni , and , considering , that the indiscretion of her aunt might prove fatal to them both , she compelled herself to endure a present and an inferior evil , rather than to tempt a future and a heavier one . 
A strange kind of presentiment frequently , on this day , occurred to her ; -- it seemed as if her fate rested here , and was by some invisible means connected with this castle . 
`` Let me not accelerate it , '' said she to herself : `` for whatever I may be reserved , let me , at least , avoid self-reproach . '' 
As she looked on the massy walls of the edifice , her melancholy spirits represented it to be her prison ; and she started as at a new suggestion , when she considered how far distant she was from her native country , from her little peaceful home , and from her only friend -- how remote was her hope of happiness , how feeble the expectation of again seeing him ! 
Yet the idea of Valancourt , and her confidence in his faithful love , had hitherto been her only solace , and she struggled hard to retain them . 
A few tears of agony started to her eyes , which she turned aside to conceal . 
While she afterwards leaned on the wall of the rampart , some peasants , at a little distance , were seen examining a breach , before which lay a heap of stones , as if to repair it , and a rusty old cannon , that appeared to have fallen from its station above . 
`` To repair the fortifications , your ladyship , '' said one of them ; a labour which she was somewhat surprised , that Montoni should think necessary , particularly since he had never spoken of the castle , as of a place , at which he meant to reside for any considerable time ; but she passed on towards a lofty arch , that led from the south to the east rampart , and which adjoined the castle , on one side , while , on the other , it supported a small watch-tower , that entirely commanded the deep valley below . 
As she approached this arch , she saw , beyond it , winding along the woody descent of a distant mountain , a long troop of horse and foot , whom she knew to be soldiers , only by the glitter of their pikes and other arms , for the distance did not allow her to discover the colour of their liveries . 
As she gazed , the vanguard issued from the woods into the valley , but the train still continued to pour over the remote summit of the mountain , in endless succession ; while , in the front , the military uniform became distinguishable , and the commanders , riding first , and seeming , by their gestures , to direct the march of those that followed , at length , approached very near to the castle . 
Such a spectacle , in these solitary regions , both surprised and alarmed Madame Montoni , and she hastened towards some peasants , who were employed in raising bastions before the south rampart , where the rock was less abrupt than elsewhere . 
These men could give no satisfactory answers to her enquiries , but , being roused by them , gazed in stupid astonishment upon the long cavalcade . 
Madame Montoni , then thinking it necessary to communicate farther the subject of her alarm , sent Emily to say , that she wished to speak to Montoni ; an errand her niece did not approve , for she dreaded his frowns , which she knew this message would provoke ; but she obeyed in silence . 
As she drew near the apartment , in which he sat with his guests , she heard them in earnest and loud dispute , and she paused a moment , trembling at the displeasure , which her sudden interruption would occasion . 
In the next , their voices sunk all together ; she then ventured to open the door , and , while Montoni turned hastily and looked at her , without speaking , she delivered her message . 
Emily then thought it proper to mention the subject of her alarm . 
Emily listened with emotion to the shrill blast , that woke the echoes of the mountains , and Montoni explained the signals , with which he appeared to be well acquainted , and which meant nothing hostile . 
Emily 's mind had not yet sufficiently recovered from its late shock , to endure the loneliness of her chamber , and she remained upon the ramparts ; for Madame Montoni had not invited her to her dressingroom , whither she had gone evidently in low spirits , and Emily , from her late experience , had lost all wish to explore the gloomy and mysterious recesses of the castle . 
The ramparts , therefore , were almost her only retreat , and here she lingered , till the gray haze of evening was again spread over the scene . 
The cavaliers supped by themselves , and Madame Montoni remained in her apartment , whither Emily went , before she retired to her own . 
She found her aunt weeping , and in much agitation . 
The tenderness of Emily was naturally so soothing , that it seldom failed to give comfort to the drooping heart : but Madame Montoni 's was torn , and the softest accents of Emily 's voice were lost upon it . 
With her usual delicacy , she did not appear to observe her aunt 's distress , but it gave an involuntary gentleness to her manners , and an air of solicitude to her countenance , which Madame Montoni was vexed to perceive , who seemed to feel the pity of her niece to be an insult to her pride , and dismissed her as soon as she properly could . 
Emily did not venture to mention again the reluctance she felt to her gloomy chamber , but she requested that Annette might be permitted to remain with her till she retired to rest ; and the request was somewhat reluctantly granted . 
Annette , however , was now with the servants , and Emily withdrew alone . 
With light and hasty steps she passed through the long galleries , while the feeble glimmer of the lamp she carried only shewed the gloom around her , and the passing air threatened to extinguish it . 
The lonely silence , that reigned in this part of the castle , awed her ; now and then , indeed , she heard a faint peal of laughter rise from a remote part of the edifice , where the servants were assembled , but it was soon lost , and a kind of breathless stillness remained . 
As she passed the suite of rooms which she had visited in the morning , her eyes glanced fearfully on the door , and she almost fancied she heard murmuring sounds within , but she paused not a moment to enquire . 
Having reached her own apartment , where no blazing wood on the hearth dissipated the gloom , she sat down with a book , to enliven her attention , till Annette should come , and a fire could be kindled . 
She wished also to question her , as to the object , which had excited so much horror in her own mind , and which Annette on the preceding evening had appeared to be in part acquainted with , though her words were very remote from the truth , and it appeared plainly to Emily , that the girl had been purposely misled by a false report : above all she was surprised , that the door of the chamber , which contained it , should be left unguarded . 
`` I am glad you are come , '' said Emily : `` what has detained you so long ? 
Caterina soon returned with the wood , and then , when the cheerful blaze once more animated the room , and this servant had withdrawn , Emily asked Annette , whether she had made the enquiry she bade her . 
said Emily smiling : `` the best would be rather a hard bed . '' 
`` Well , '' said Emily , `` but that does not prove , that an apparition guards it . '' 
`` Nothing probably upon this subject , but what I see , '' said Emily . 
-- Emily could not forbear laughing , and Annette looked surprised . 
Perceiving her extreme aptitude to credit the marvellous , Emily forbore to mention the subject she had intended , lest it should overcome her with ideal terrors , and she began to speak on a lively topic -- the regattas of Venice . 
said Emily , wishing Annette to explain herself . 
said Emily . 
But this morning , '' continued Annette , lowering her voice , and looking round the room , `` this morning , as it was broad daylight , do you know , ma'am , I took a strange fancy to see it , as I had heard such odd hints about it , and I got as far as the door , and should have opened it , if it had not been locked ! '' 
Emily , endeavouring to conceal the emotion this circumstance occasioned , enquired at what hour she went to the chamber , and found , that it was soon after herself had been there . 
She also asked further questions , and the answers convinced her , that Annette , and probably her informer , were ignorant of the terrible truth , though in Annette 's account something very like the truth , now and then , mingled with the falsehood . 
Emily now began to fear , that her visit to the chamber had been observed , since the door had been closed , so immediately after her departure ; and dreaded lest this should draw upon her the vengeance of Montoni . 
Her anxiety , also , was excited to know whence , and for what purpose , the delusive report , which had been imposed upon Annette , had originated , since Montoni could only have wished for silence and secrecy ; but she felt , that the subject was too terrible for this lonely hour , and she compelled herself to leave it , to converse with Annette , whose chat , simple as it was , she preferred to the stillness of total solitude . 
The embers were now nearly burnt out ; and Emily heard , at a distance , the thundering sound of the hall doors , as they were shut for the night . 
She , therefore , prepared for rest , but was still unwilling that Annette should leave her . 
Emily sunk almost lifeless in her chair ; `` It is the Count , '' said she . 
`` Nay , pr ` ythee , good Annette , stay not talking , '' said Emily in a voice of agony -- `` Go pr ` ythee , go , and see who it is . '' 
Annette left the room , and carried with her the light , leaving Emily in darkness , which a few moments before would have terrified her in this room , but was now scarcely observed by her . 
Voices were now heard , and Emily even thought she distinguished those of Count Morano , and Montoni . 
Soon after , she heard steps approaching , and then a ray of light streamed through the darkness , and Annette appeared , whom Emily went to meet . 
`` Yes , ma'amselle , '' said she , `` you was right , it is the Count sure enough . '' 
exclaimed Emily , lifting her eyes towards heaven and supporting herself by Annette 's arm . 
said Emily , moving as fast as she was able towards her apartment . 
The faintness soon left Emily , but she desired Annette would not go till she heard from Montoni . 
`` Stay with me till I am so , then , '' said Emily , who felt temporary relief from this suggestion , which appeared probable enough , though her fears had prevented its occurring to her . 
Annette , with secret reluctance , consented to stay , and Emily was now composed enough to ask her some questions ; among others , whether she had seen the Count . 
-- Emily was compelled to smile . 
Emily enquired who the cavalier was , that accompanied the Count , and how Montoni received them ; but Annette could not inform her . 
Emily fat musing , for some time , and then her anxiety was so much increased , that she desired Annette would go to the servants ' hall , where it was possible she might hear something of the Count 's intention , respecting his stay at the castle . 
Emily said she would light her , and they immediately quitted the chamber . 
When they had reached the top of the great staircase , Emily recollected , that she might be seen by the Count , and , to avoid the great hall , Annette conducted her through some private passages to a back stair-case , which led directly to that of the servants . 
As she returned towards her chamber , Emily began to fear , that she might again lose herself in the intricacies of the castle , and again be shocked by some mysterious spectacle ; and , though she was already perplexed by the numerous turnings , she feared to open one of the many doors , that offered . 
While she stepped thoughtfully along , she fancied , that she heard a low moaning at no great distance , and , having paused a moment , she heard it again and distinctly . 
She advanced , and listened . 
When she came to the second , she heard a voice , apparently in complaint , within , to which she continued to listen , afraid to open the door , and unwilling to leave it . 
Emily stood appalled , and looked through the gloom , that surrounded her , in fearful expectation . 
Pity now began to subdue terror ; it was possible she might administer comfort to the sufferer , at least , by expressing sympathy , and she laid her hand on the door . 
While she hesitated she thought she knew this voice , disguised as it was by tones of grief . 
Having , therefore , set down the lamp in the passage , she gently opened the door , within which all was dark , except that from an inner apartment a partial light appeared ; and she stepped softly on . 
Before she reached it , the appearance of Madame Montoni , leaning on her dressing-table , weeping , and with a handkerchief held to her eyes , struck her , and she paused . 
Some person was seated in a chair by the fire , but who it was she could not distinguish . 
He spoke , now and then , in a low voice , that did not allow Emily to hear what was uttered but she thought that Madame Montoni , at those times , wept the more , who was too much occupied by her own distress , to observe Emily , while the latter , though anxious to know what occasioned this , and who was the person admitted at so late an hour to her aunt 's dressing-room , forbore to add to her sufferings by surprising her , or to take advantage of her situation , by listening to a private discourse . 
She , therefore , stepped softly back , and , after some further difficulty , found the way to her own chamber , where nearer interests , at length , excluded the surprise and concern she had felt , respecting Madame Montoni . 
Emily , indeed , began to think it was cruel to wish it ; she had also waited so long , without receiving a summons from Montoni , that it appeared he did not mean to disturb her , at this late hour , and she determined to dismiss Annette . 
But , when she again looked round her gloomy chamber , and recollected certain circumstances , fear seized her spirits , and she hesitated . 
`` And yet it were cruel of me to ask you to stay , till I am asleep , Annette , '' said she , `` for I fear it will be very long before I forget myself in sleep . '' 
`` But , before you go , '' rejoined Emily , `` let me ask you -- Had Signor Montoni left Count Morano , when you quitted the hall ? '' 
said Emily , forgetting , in surprise , her usual prudence . 
Emily took no further notice of the subject , and , after some struggle with imaginary fears , her good nature prevailed over them so far , that she dismissed Annette for the night . 
It was open upon the table , before her , among some loose drawings , having , with them , been taken out of a little box by Emily , some hours before . 
It was the same style of countenance as that of her late father , and , while she gazed on it with fondness on this account , she even fancied a resemblance in the features . 
But this tranquillity was suddenly interrupted , when she recollected the words in the manuscript , that had been found with this picture , and which had formerly occasioned her so much doubt and horror . 
At length , she roused herself from the deep reverie , into which this remembrance had thrown her ; but , when she rose to undress , the silence and solitude , to which she was left , at this midnight hour , for not even a distant found was now heard , conspired with the impression the subject she had been considering had given to her mind , to appall her . 
While Emily kept her eyes fixed on the spot , she saw the door move , and then slowly open , and perceived something enter the room , but the extreme duskiness prevented her distinguishing what it was . 
Almost fainting with terror , she had yet sufficient command over herself , to check the shriek , that was escaping from her lips , and , letting the curtain drop from her hand , continued to observe in silence the motions of the mysterious form she saw . 
It seemed to glide along the remote obscurity of the apartment , then paused , and , as it approached the hearth , she perceived , in the stronger light , what appeared to be a human figure . 
Certain remembrances now struck upon her heart , and almost subdued the feeble remains of her spirits ; she continued , however , to watch the figure , which remained for some time motionless , but then , advancing slowly towards the bed , stood silently at the feet , where the curtains , being a little open , allowed her still to see it ; terror , however , had now deprived her of the power of discrimination , as well as of that of utterance . 
The light at that instant awakening the dog , that had slept at Emily 's feet , he barked loudly , and , jumping to the floor , flew at the stranger , who struck the animal smartly with a sheathed sword , and , springing towards the bed , Emily discovered -- Count Morano ! 
She gazed at him for a moment in speechless affright , while he , throwing himself on his knee at the bed-side , besought her to fear nothing , and , having thrown down his sword , would have taken her hand , when the faculties , that terror had suspended , suddenly returned , and she sprung from the bed , in the dress , which surely a kind of prophetic apprehension had prevented her , on this night , from throwing aside . 
Morano rose , followed her to the door , through which he had entered , and caught her hand , as she reached the top of the staircase , but not before she had discovered , by the gleam of a lamp , another man half-way down the steps . 
She now screamed in despair , and , believing herself given up by Montoni , saw , indeed , no possibility of escape . 
The Count , who still held her hand , led her back into the chamber . 
`` Hear me , Emily : I come not to alarm you ; no , by Heaven ! 
Emily looked at him for a moment , in fearful doubt . 
`` Then leave me , sir , '' said she , `` leave me instantly . '' 
`` Hear me , Emily , '' resumed Morano , `` hear me ! 
cried Emily eagerly : `` what is it I hear ? '' 
said Emily , fixing on the Count an eye of calm contempt . 
`` Leave the room , sir , instantly , '' she continued in a voice , trembling between joy and fear , `` or I will alarm the family , and you may receive that from Signor Montoni 's vengeance , which I have vainly supplicated from his pity . '' 
But Emily knew , that she was beyond the hearing of those , who might protect her . 
And for you , Emily , for you , he has new plans more profitable than the last , no doubt . '' 
The gleam of hope , which the Count 's former speech had revived , was now nearly extinguished by the latter ; and , while Emily 's countenance betrayed the emotions of her mind , he endeavoured to take advantage of the discovery . 
`` I lose time , '' said he : `` I came not to exclaim against Montoni ; I came to solicit , to plead -- to Emily ; to tell her all I suffer , to entreat her to save me from despair , and herself from destruction . 
Emily ! 
Emily , overcome by the sudden shock she had received , at the moment , too , when she had begun to hope for better days , now thought she saw destruction surround her on every side . 
Unable to reply , and almost to think , she threw herself into a chair , pale and breathless . 
That Montoni had formerly sold her to Morano , was very probable ; that he had now withdrawn his consent to the marriage , was evident from the Count 's present conduct ; and it was nearly certain , that a scheme of stronger interest only could have induced the selfish Montoni to forego a plan , which he had hitherto so strenuously pursued . 
These reflections made her tremble at the hints , which Morano had just given , which she no longer hesitated to believe ; and , while she shrunk from the new scenes of misery and oppression , that might await her in the castle of Udolpho , she was compelled to observe , that almost her only means of escaping them was by submitting herself to the protection of this man , with whom evils more certain and not less terrible appeared , -- evils , upon which she could not endure to pause for an instant . 
Her silence , though it was that of agony , encouraged the hopes of Morano , who watched her countenance with impatience , took again the resisting hand she had withdrawn , and , as he pressed it to his heart , again conjured her to determine immediately . 
`` I beseech you , sir , be silent , '' said Emily faintly : `` I am indeed very wretched , and wretched I must remain . 
`` Nor do I hesitate , '' said Emily . 
`` Let us go , then , '' said Morano , eagerly kissing her hand , and rising , `` my carriage waits , below the castle walls . '' 
`` You mistake me , sir , '' said Emily . 
Emily , why will you suffer yourself to be thus deluded ? 
`` This discourse , Count Morano , sufficiently proves , that my affections ought not to be yours , '' said Emily , mildly , `` and this conduct , that I should not be placed beyond the reach of oppression , so long as I remained in your power . 
The vehemence , with which this was uttered , gave Emily new cause of alarm , who arose from her chair , but her trembling frame refused to support her , and she resumed her seat ; -- the words died on her lips , and , when she looked wishfully towards the door of the corridor , which was locked , she considered it was impossible for her to leave the apartment , before Morano would be apprised of , and able to counteract , her intention . 
Without observing her agitation , he continued to pace the room in the utmost perturbation of spirits . 
`` Count Morano , '' said Emily , at length recovering her voice , `` calm , I entreat you , these transports , and listen to reason , if you will not to pity . 
said Morano , coldly , and turning towards her with a look of acrimony . 
`` For both , '' replied Emily , in a trembling voice . 
This was an unnecessary injunction , at present ; for Emily was too certain , that her call would avail her nothing ; and terror had so entirely disordered her thoughts , that she knew not how to plead to Morano , but sat , mute and trembling , in her chair , till he advanced to lift her from it , when she suddenly raised herself , and , with a repulsive gesture , and a countenance of forced serenity , said , `` Count Morano ! 
-- Emily was interrupted by the growling of the dog , who now came again from the bed , and Morano looked towards the door of the stair-case , where no person appearing , he called aloud , `` Cesario ! '' 
`` Emily , '' said the Count , `` why will you reduce me to adopt this conduct ? 
cried Morano , grasping Emily 's wrist , and stamping his foot on the floor . 
An involuntary air of surprise appeared on her countenance . 
`` If you have indeed believed so , '' said she , `` believe so still . '' 
`` Stay , Count Morano , '' said Emily , terrified by his words , and by the fury expressed in his eyes , `` I will save you from this error . 
Emily uttered a loud shriek , as Morano hurried her across the chamber , and , at the same moment , she heard a noise at the door , that opened upon the corridor . 
cried Montoni to the Count , who did not pause for a second bidding , but , giving Emily into the hands of the people , that appeared from the stair-case , turned fiercely round . 
said he , as he made a thrust at Montoni with his sword , who parried the blow , and aimed another , while some of the persons , who had followed him into the room , endeavoured to part the combatants , and others rescued Emily from the hands of Morano 's servants . 
In the mean time , Emily , who had been with-held from leaving the chamber during the affray , now came forward into the corridor , and pleaded a cause of common humanity , with the feelings of the warmest benevolence , when she entreated Montoni to allow Morano the assistance in the castle , which his situation required . 
The Count 's servants having declared , that they would not move him till he revived , Montoni 's stood inactive , Cavigni remonstrating , and Emily , superior to Montoni 's menaces , giving water to Morano , and directing the attendants to bind up his wound . 
The Count , meanwhile , having slowly recovered , the first object he saw , on raising his eyes , was Emily , bending over him with a countenance strongly expressive of solicitude . 
He surveyed her with a look of anguish . 
It is from you , Emily , that I have deserved punishment , yet I receive only pity ! '' 
Emily , now that he had recovered his senses , was about to withdraw from the corridor , when a message from Montoni commanded her to do so , and also that the Count , if he was not already gone , should quit the castle immediately . 
Montoni 's people , meanwhile , held Verezzi , who seemed inclined , even in this instant , to execute his threat ; and Cavigni , who was not so depraved as to abet the cowardly malignity of Verezzi , endeavoured to withdraw him from the corridor ; and Emily , whom a compassionate interest had thus long detained , was now quitting it in new terror , when the supplicating voice of Morano arrested her , and , by a feeble gesture , he beckoned her to draw nearer . 
She advanced with timid steps , but the fainting languor of his countenance again awakened her pity , and overcame her terror . 
I would carry with me your forgiveness , Emily ; nay more -- I would also carry your good wishes . '' 
`` You have my forgiveness , then , '' said Emily , `` and my sincere wishes for your recovery . '' 
`` For your general welfare , '' added Emily . 
`` Perhaps I ought to be contented with this , '' he resumed ; `` I certainly have not deserved more ; but I would ask you , Emily , sometimes to think of me , and , forgetting my offence , to remember only the passion which occasioned it . 
Emily -- may you never know the torture of a passion like mine ! 
Emily looked impatient to be gone . 
`` I `` entreat you , Count , to consult your own safety , '' said she , `` and linger here no longer . 
But , before I go , let me again hear you say , that you with me well , '' said he , fixing on her an earnest and mournful look . 
Emily repeated her assurances . 
He took her hand , which she scarcely attempted to withdraw , and put it to his lips . 
said Emily ; and she turned to go , when a second message arrived from Montoni , and she again conjured Morano , as he valued his life , to quit the castle immediately . 
He regarded her in silence , with a look of fixed despair . 
But she had no time to enforce her compassionate entreaties , and , not daring to disobey the second command of Montoni , she left the corridor , to attend him . 
Emily trembled , as she approached and received his severe rebuke , for not having obeyed his first summons ; and perceived , also , that he attributed her stay in the corridor to a motive , that had not even occurred to her artless mind . 
Emily looked astonished . 
`` I do not comprehend you , sir , '' said she : `` You certainly do not mean to imply , that the design of the Count to visit the double-chamber , was founded upon any approbation of mine . '' 
`` I fear , sir , it was a more than common interest , that detained me , '' said Emily calmly ; `` for of late I have been inclined to think , that of compassion is an uncommon one . 
Emily , who had always endeavoured to regulate her conduct by the nicest laws , and whose mind was finely sensible , not only of what is just in morals , but of whatever is beautiful in the female character , was shocked by these words ; yet , in the next moment , her heart swelled with the consciousness of having deserved praise , instead of censure , and she was proudly silent . 
Montoni , acquainted with the delicacy of her mind , knew how keenly she would feel his rebuke ; but he was a stranger to the luxury of conscious worth , and , therefore , did not foresee the energy of that sentiment , which now repelled his satire . 
Montoni seemed somewhat appeased , on hearing this ; and , when Ludovico appeared , a few moments after , and said , that Morano was gone , he told Emily she might retire to her apartment . 
She withdrew willingly from his presence ; but the thought of passing the remainder of the night in a chamber , which the door from the stair-case made liable to the intrusion of any person , now alarmed her more than ever , and she determined to call at Madam Montoni 's room , and request , that Annette might be permitted to be with her . 
Emily joined her entreaties to Cavigni 's arguments , and they , at length , prevailed so far , as that Verezzi consented to retire , without seeing Montoni . 
On calling at her aunt 's apartment , she found it fastened . 
It may be remembered , that it was by a door leading into the bed-room from a back passage , that Emily had secretly entered a few hours preceding . 
She now conjectured , by the calmness of Madame Montoni 's air , that she was not apprised of the accident , which had befallen her husband , and was beginning to inform her of it , in the tenderest manner she could , when her aunt interrupted her , by saying , she was acquainted with the whole affair . 
Emily knew indeed , that she had little reason to love Montoni , but could scarcely have believed her capable of such perfect apathy , as she now discovered towards him ; having obtained permission , however , for Annette to sleep in her chamber , she went thither immediately . 
Emily shuddered , and leaned on Annette , as she passed . 
When she reached her apartment , she instantly determined , since the door of the stair-case had been left open , and that Annette was now with her , to explore whither it led , -- a circumstance now materially connected with her own safety . 
Emily then retired to bed , and Annette continued on a chair by the hearth , where some feeble embers remained . 
It is now necessary to mention some circumstances , which could not be related amidst the events of Emily 's hasty departure from Venice , or together with those , which so rapidly succeeded to her arrival in the castle . 
On the morning of her journey , Count Morano had gone at the appointed hour to the mansion of Montoni , to demand his bride . 
Thither he followed , as soon as his servants could complete the necessary preparation for the journey , accompanied by a friend , and attended by a number of his people , determined to obtain Emily , or a full revenge on Montoni . 
Montoni had been interested in his suit , by motives entirely selfish , those of avarice and pride ; the last of which would have been gratified by an alliance with a Venetian nobleman , the former by Emily 's estate in Gascony , which he had stipulated , as the price of his favour , should be delivered up to him from the day of her marriage . 
He did not hesitate then to infer , that Morano designed to defraud him of Emily 's estate ; and in this supposition he was confirmed , and with apparent reason , by the subsequent conduct of the Count , who , after having appointed to meet him on that night , for the purpose of signing the instrument , which was to secure to him his reward , failed in his engagement . 
By hastening to Udolpho he intended to remove Emily from the reach of Morano , as well as to break off the affair , without submitting himself to useless altercation : and , if the Count meant what he called honourably , he would doubtless follow Emily , and sign the writings in question . 
If this was done , so little consideration had Montoni for her welfare , that he would not have scrupled to sacrifice her to a man of ruined fortune , since by that means he could enrich himself ; and he forbore to mention to her the motive of his sudden journey , lest the hope it might revive should render her more intractable , when submission would be required . 
When his arrival was announced at the castle , Montoni did not believe , that he would have presumed to shew himself , unless he had meant to fulfil his engagement , and he , therefore , readily admitted him ; but the enraged countenance and expressions of Morano , as he entered the apartment , instantly undeceived him ; and , when Montoni had explained , in part , the motives of his abrupt departure from Venice , the Count still persisted in demanding Emily , and reproaching Montoni , without even naming the former stipulation . 
When , however , in the silence of his own apartment , he began to consider the past conversation , the character of Montoni , and some former instances of his duplicity , the hope , which he had admitted , vanished , and he determined not to neglect the present possibility of obtaining Emily by other means . 
To his confidential valet he told his design of carrying away Emily , and sent him back to Montoni 's servants to find out one among them , who might enable him to execute it . 
This man conducted Cesario round the castle , through a private passage , to the stair-case , that led to Emily 's chamber ; then shewed him a short way out of the building , and afterwards procured him the keys , that would secure his retreat . 
But , before he ventured to disclose his apprehensions to Montoni , he endeavoured to obtain further confirmation of them , and , for this purpose , placed himself , with one of his fellow servants , at the door of Emily 's apartment , that opened upon the corridor . 
When he was convinced , that Morano was in the room , and had listened long enough to his conversation , to understand his scheme , he immediately alarmed Montoni , and thus rescued Emily from the designs of the Count . 
Emily , for the remainder of the late eventful night , had been suffered to sleep , undisturbed ; and , when her mind recovered from the confusion of slumber , and she remembered , that she was now released from the addresses of Count Morano , her spirits were suddenly relieved from a part of the terrible anxiety , that had long oppressed them ; that which remained , arose chiefly from a recollection of Morano 's assertions , concerning the schemes of Montoni . 
He had said , that plans of the latter , concerning Emily , were insearchable , yet that he knew them to be terrible . 
At the time he uttered this , she almost believed it to be designed for the purpose of prevailing with her to throw herself into his protection , and she still thought it might be chiefly so accounted for ; but his assertions had left an impression on her mind , which a consideration of the character and former conduct of Montoni did not contribute to efface . 
She , however , checked her propensity to anticipate evil ; and , determined to enjoy this respite from actual misfortune , tried to dismiss thought , took her instruments for drawing , and placed herself at a window , to select into a landscape some features of the scenery without . 
As she was thus employed , she saw , walking on the rampart below , the men , who had so lately arrived at the castle . 
The sight of strangers surprised her , but still more , of strangers such as these . 
There was a singularity in their dress , and a certain fierceness in their air , that fixed all her attention . 
She withdrew from the casement , while they passed , but soon returned to observe them further . 
Their figures seemed so well suited to the wildness of the surrounding objects , that , as they stood surveying the castle , she sketched them for banditti , amid the mountain view of her picture , when she had finished which , she was surprised to observe the spirit of her group . 
But she had copied from nature . 
Montoni then went to his wife 's apartment , whither Emily followed soon after , but , finding them in high dispute , was instantly leaving the room , when her aunt called her back , and desired her to stay . 
-- `` You shall be a witness , '' said she , `` of my opposition . 
Montoni turned , with a stern countenance , to Emily , and bade her quit the apartment , while his wife persisted in desiring , that she would stay . 
Emily was eager to escape from this scene of contention , and anxious , also , to serve her aunt ; but she despaired of conciliating Montoni , in whose eyes the rising mpest of his soul flashed terribly . 
Emily obeyed , and , walking down to the rampart , which the strangers had now left , continued to meditate on the unhappy marriage of her father 's sister , and on her own desolate situation , occasioned by the ridiculous imprudence of her , whom she had always wished to respect and love . 
Madame Montoni 's conduct had , indeed , rendered it impossible for Emily to do either ; but her gentle heart was touched by her distress , and , in the pity thus awakened , she forgot the injurious treatment she had received from her . 
As she sauntered on the rampart , Annette appeared at the hall door , looked cautiously round , and then advanced to meet her . 
exclaimed Emily , and shuddered . 
-- `` And so , '' said Emily smilingly , `` as you must talk of them to somebody -- '' `` Why , yes , ma'amselle ; what can one do in such a place as this , if one must not talk ? 
said Emily , pausing . 
said Annette , fixing her eyes on Emily 's face , `` what makes you look so pale ? 
Annette might have smiled in her turn , at this sage observation of Emily , who could tremble with ideal terrors , as much as herself , and listen almost as eagerly to the recital of a mysterious story . 
said Emily , `` Have you seen it ? 
The tone and look of surprise , with which this was uttered , recalled Emily 's prudence ; who concealed her emotion under a smile , and bade Annette lead her to the picture . 
Emily advanced , and surveyed the picture . 
It represented a lady in the flower of youth and beauty ; her features were handsome and noble , full of strong expression , but had little of the captivating sweetness , that Emily had looked for , and still less of the pensive mildness she loved . 
said Emily . 
Emily continued to gaze upon the portrait . 
Emily was too much absorbed in thought , to hear what she said . 
Emily turned round . 
`` Let us leave this chamber , '' said Emily : `` and let me caution you again , Annette ; be guarded in your conversation , and never tell , that you know any thing of that picture . '' 
Emily started . 
said she -- `` Have seen it ! 
said Emily . 
`` If that was the case , ma'amselle , '' replied Annette , looking about her , `` how could we get here ? '' 
you mean this picture , '' said Emily , with returning calmness . 
Emily , as she passed to her own apartment , saw Montoni go down to the hall , and she turned into her aunt 's dressing-room , whom she found weeping and alone , grief and resentment struggling on her countenance . 
Judging of Emily 's disposition from her own , and from a consciousness of what her treatment of her deserved , she had believed , that her griefs would because of triumph to her niece , rather than of sympathy ; that she would despise , not pity her . 
But she knew not the tenderness and benevolence of Emily 's heart , that had always taught her to forget her own injuries in the misfortunes of her enemy . 
The sufferings of others , whoever they might be , called forth her ready compassion , which dissipated at once every obscuring cloud to goodness , that passion or prejudice might have raised in her mind . 
Madame Montoni 's sufferings , at length , rose above her pride , and , when Emily had before entered the room , she would have told them all , had not her husband prevented her ; now that she was no longer restrained by his presence , she poured forth all her complaints to her niece . 
`` O Emily ! '' 
she exclaimed , `` I am the most wretched of women -- I am indeed cruelly treated ! 
Emily thought she might have foreseen it , but this was not a thought of triumph . 
She placed herself in a chair near her aunt , took her hand , and , with one of those looks of soft compassion , which might characterize the countenance of a guardian angel , spoke to her in the tenderest accents . 
She wanted to complain , not to be consoled ; and it was by exclamations of complaint only , that Emily learned the particular circumstances of her affliction . 
She paused to take breath . 
`` Dear Madam , be composed , '' said Emily : `` the Signor may not be so rich as you had reason to expect , but surely he can not be very poor , since this castle and the mansion at Venice are his . 
`` It is , indeed , '' said Emily , `` but you must recollect , dear madam , that I knew nothing of all this . '' 
`` Well , and is it not sufficient , '' rejoined her aunt , `` that he is also absolutely ruined , that he is sunk deeply in debt , and that neither this castle , or the mansion at Venice , is his own , if all his debts , honourable and dishonourable , were paid ! '' 
`` I am shocked by what you tell me , madam , '' said Emily . 
If any thing could have made Emily smile in these moments , it would have been this speech of her aunt , delivered in a voice very little below a scream ; and with a vehemence of gesticulation and of countenance , that turned the whole into burlesque . 
Emily saw , that her misfortunes did not admit of real consolation , and , contemning the common -- place terms of superficial comfort , she was silent ; while Madame Montoni , jealous of her own consequence , mistook this for the silence of indifference , or of contempt , and reproached her with want of duty and feeling . 
rejoined she ; `` I thought it would not teach you to feel either duty , or affection , for your relations , who have treated you like their own daughter ! '' 
`` Pardon me , madam , '' said Emily , mildly , `` it is not natural to me to boast , and if it was , I am sure I would not boast of sensibility -- a quality , perhaps , more to be feared , than desired . '' 
Emily seized a pause of Madame Montoni 's voice , to speak . 
`` Dear madam , '' said she , `` but will not this serve to irritate the Signor unnecessarily ? 
`` You spoke of reproaching the Signor , '' -- said Emily , with hesitation . 
said her aunt . 
`` It is to avoid that violence , that prudence is necessary , '' said Emily . 
continued Madame Montoni , without attending to her , `` of prudence towards a man , who does not scruple to break all the common ties of humanity in his conduct to me ! 
`` It is for your own sake , not for the Signor 's , madam , '' said Emily modestly , `` that you should consult prudence . 
said Emily , `` I am unequal to advise you on a point so important as the last : but you will pardon me for saying , that , if you consult your own peace , you will try to conciliate Signor Montoni , rather than to irritate him by reproaches . '' 
Emily was shocked to observe the perverted understanding and obstinate temper of Madame Montoni ; but , not less grieved for her sufferings , she looked round for some alleviating circumstance to offer her . 
`` Your situation is , perhaps , not so desperate , dear madam , '' said Emily , `` as you may imagine . 
Madame Montoni impatiently interrupted her . 
said she , `` and so you would persuade me , that I have no reason to complain ; that the Signor is in very flourishing circumstances , that my future prospects promise nothing but comfort , and that my griefs are as fanciful and romantic as your own ! 
Emily , without replying , immediately left the room , with a mingled emotion of pity and contempt , and hastened to her own , where she yielded to the mournful reflections , which a knowledge of her aunt 's situation had occasioned . 
The conversation of the Italian with Varancourt , in France , again occurred to her . 
His hints , respecting the broken fortunes of Montoni , were now completely justified ; those , also , concerning his character , appeared not less so , though the particular circumstances , connected with his fame , to which the stranger had alluded , yet remained to be explained . 
Notwithstanding , that her own observations and the words of Count Morano had convinced her , that Montoni 's situation was not what it formerly appeared to be , the intelligence she had just received from her aunt on this point , struck her with all the force of astonishment , which was not weakened , when she considered the present style of Montoni 's living , the number of servants he maintained , and the new expences he was incurring , by repairing and fortifying his castle . 
Her anxiety for her aunt and for herself increased with reflection . 
Several assertions of Morano , which , on the preceding night , she had believed were prompted either by interest , or by resentment , now returned to her mind with the strength of truth . 
She could not doubt , that Montoni had formerly agreed to give her to the Count , for a pecuniary reward ; -- his character , and his distressed circumstances justified the belief ; these , also , seemed to confirm Morano 's assertion , that he now designed to dispose of her , more advantageously for himself , to a richer suitor . 
Amidst the reproaches , which Morano had thrown out against Montoni , he had said -- he would not quit the castle he dared to call his , nor willingly leave another murder on his conscience -- hints , which might have no other origin than the passion of the moment : but Emily was now inclined to account for them more seriously , and she shuddered to think , that she was in the hands of a man , to whom it was even possible they could apply . 
At length , considering , that reflection could neither release her from her melancholy situation , or enable her to bear it with greater fortitude , she tried to divert her anxiety , and took down from her little library a volume of her favourite Ariosto ; but his wild imagery and rich invention could not long enchant her attention ; his spells did not reach her heart , and over her sleeping fancy they played , without awakening it . 
She now put aside the book , and took her lute , for it was seldom that her sufferings refused to yield to the magic of sweet sounds ; when they did so , she was oppressed by sorrow , that came from excess of tenderness and regret ; and there were times , when music had increased such sorrow to a degree , that was scarcely endurable ; when , if it had not suddenly ceased , she might have lost her reason . 
Such was the time , when she mourned for her father , and heard the midnight strains , that floated by her window near the convent in Languedoc , on the night that followed his death . 
She continued to play , till Annette brought dinner into her chamber , at which Emily was surprised , and enquired whose order she obeyed . 
Emily , not appearing to notice what she said , sat down to the little table , that was spread for her . 
While she waited , she told of the arrival of the men , whom Emily had observed on the ramparts , and expressed much surprise at their strange appearance , as well as at the manner , in which they had been attended by Montoni 's order . 
said Emily . 
Emily enquired , if she had heard of Count Morano , and whether he was likely to recover : but Annette only knew , that he was lodged in a cottage in the wood below , and that every body said he must die . 
Emily 's countenance discovered her emotion . 
`` I hope I hate nobody , '' replied Emily , trying to smile ; `` but certainly I do not love Count Morano . 
Emily looked displeased ; and Annette , mistaking the cause of her displeasure , immediately began to excuse the Count , in her way . 
`` Enough of this , '' said Emily , who now smiled without an effort ; and Annette returned to a mention of the disagreement between Montoni , and her lady . 
`` It is nothing new , '' said she : `` we saw and heard enough of this at Venice , though I never told you of it , ma'amselle . '' 
said Emily , gravely . 
And I am sure , my heart has ached a thousand times , and I have thought , when she was so unhappy herself , she might have felt a little for other people , and -- '' `` I thank you for your pity , Annette , '' said Emily , interrupting her : `` but my aunt was unhappy then , and that disturbed her temper perhaps , or I think -- I am sure -- You may take away , Annette , I have done . '' 
exclaimed Emily , blushing deeply , `` it is surely impossible my aunt could thus have represented me ! '' 
`` However that may be , Annette , '' interrupted Emily , recovering her composure , `` it does not become you to speak of the faults of my aunt to me . 
said Emily , when she was alone ; `` the treatment I am to receive from a relation -- an aunt -- who ought to have been the guardian , not the slanderer of my reputation , -- who , as a woman , ought to have respected the delicacy of female honour , and , as a relation , should have protected mine ! 
Emily threw her veil over her , and went down to walk upon the ramparts , the only walk , indeed , which was open to her , though she often wished , that she might be permitted to ramble among the woods below , and still more , that she might sometimes explore the sublime scenes of the surrounding country . 
But , as Montoni would not suffer her to pass the gates of the castle , she tried to be contented with the romantic views she beheld from the walls . 
Their lonely appearance , together with the gloom of a lowering sky , assisted the musings of her mind , and threw over it a kind of melancholy tranquillity , such as she often loved to indulge . 
She turned to observe a fine effect of the sun , as his rays , suddenly streaming from behind a heavy cloud , lighted up the west towers of the castle , while the rest of the edifice was in deep shade , except , that , through a lofty gothic arch , adjoining the tower , which led to another terrace , the beams darted in full splendour , and shewed the three strangers she had observed in the morning . 
Perceiving them , she started , and a momentary fear came over her , as she looked up the long rampart , and saw no other persons . 
While she hesitated , they approached . 
The gate at the end of the terrace , whither they were advancing , she knew , was always locked , and she could not depart by the opposite extremity , without meeting them ; but , before she passed them , she hastily drew a thin veil over her face , which did , indeed , but ill conceal her beauty . 
They looked earnestly at her , and spoke to each other in bad Italian , of which she caught only a few words ; but the fierceness of their countenances , now that she was near enough to discriminate them , struck her yet more than the wild singularity of their air and dress had formerly done . 
It was the countenance and figure of him , who walked between the other two , that chiefly seized her attention , which expressed a sullen haughtiness and a kind of dark watchful villany , that gave a thrill of horror to her heart . 
All this was so legibly written on his features , as to be seen by a single glance , for she passed the group swiftly , and her timid eyes scarcely rested on them a moment . 
Having reached the terrace , she stopped , and perceived the strangers standing in the shadow of one of the turrets , gazing after her , and seemingly , by their action , in earnest conversation . 
She immediately left the rampart , and retired to her apartment . 
In the evening , Montoni sat late , carousing with his guests in the cedar chamber . 
His recent triumph over Count Morano , or , perhaps , some other circumstance , contributed to elevate his spirits to an unusual height . 
He filled the goblet often , and gave a loose to merriment and talk . 
He kept a watchful eye upon Verezzi , whom , with the utmost difficulty , he had hitherto restrained from exasperating Montoni further against Morano , by a mention of his late taunting words . 
The mention of Morano led to that of Emily , of whom they were all profuse in the praise , except Montoni , who sat silent , and then interrupted the subject . 
We now return to Valancourt , who , it may be remembered , remained at Tholouse , some time after the departure of Emily , restless and miserable . 
He could not immediately tear himself from the spot , where he had been accustomed to converse with Emily , or from the objects they had viewed together , which appeared to him memorials of her affection , as well as a kind of surety for its faithfulness ; and , next to the pain of bidding her adieu , was that of leaving the scenes , which so powerfully awakened her image . 
The terrace , and the pavilion at the end of it , where he had taken leave of Emily , on the eve of her departure from Tholouse , were his most favourite haunts . 
There , as he walked , or leaned from the window of the building , he would endeavour to recollect all she had said , on that night ; to catch the tones of her voice , as they faintly vibrated on his memory , and to remember the exact expression of her countenance , which sometimes came suddenly to his fancy , like a vision ; that beautiful countenance , which awakened , as by instantaneous magic , all the tenderness of his heart , and seemed to tell with irresistible eloquence -- that he had lost her forever ! 
The character of Montoni , such as he had received from hints , and such as his fears represented it , would rise to his view , together with all the dangers it seemed to threaten to Emily and to his love . 
He blamed himself , that he had not urged these more forcibly to her , while it might have been in his power to detain her , and that he had suffered an absurd and criminal delicacy , as he termed it , to conquer so soon the reasonable arguments he had opposed to this journey . 
Any evil , that might have attended their marriage , seemed so inferior to those , which now threatened their love , or even to the sufferings , that absence occasioned , that he wondered how he could have ceased to urge his suit , till he had convinced her of its propriety ; and he would certainly now have followed her to Italy , if he could have been spared from his regiment for so long a journey . 
But gaiety disgusted , and company fatigued , his sick mind ; and he became an object of unceasing raillery to his companions , from whom , whenever he could steal an opportunity , he escaped , to think of Emily . 
To escape from such scenes , he fled into solitude , and there the image of Emily met him , and revived the pangs of love and despair . 
To forget himself and the grief and anxiety , which the idea of her recalled , he would quit his solitude , and again mingle in the crowd -- glad of a temporary relief , and rejoicing to snatch amusement for the moment . 
Valancourt , who passionately loved music , and who sometimes assisted at these concerts , admired her execution , but remembered with a sigh the eloquent simplicity of Emily 's songs and the natural expression of her manner , which waited not to be approved by the judgment , but found their way at once to the heart . 
Madame La Comtesse had often deep play at her house , which she affected to restrain , but secretly encouraged ; and it was well known among her friends , that the splendour of her establishment was chiefly supplied from the profits of her tables . 
But her petits soupers were the most charming imaginable ! 
Emily , who , had she been present , would have saved him from these evils by awakening his heart , and engaging him in worthy pursuits , now only increased his danger ; -- it was to lose the grief , which the remembrance of her occasioned , that he first sought amusement ; and for this end he pursued it , till habit made it an object of abstract interest . 
Emily 's image , indeed , still lived there ; but it was no longer the friend , the monitor , that saved him from himself , and to which he retired to weep the sweet , yet melancholy , tears of tenderness . 
When he had recourse to it , it assumed a countenance of mild reproach , that wrung his soul , and called forth tears of unmixed misery ; his only escape from which was to forget the object of it , and he endeavoured , therefore , to think of Emily as seldom as he could . 
Thus dangerously circumstanced was Valancourt , at the time , when Emily was suffering at Venice , from the persecuting addresses of Count Morano , and the unjust authority of Montoni ; at which period we leave him . 
Leaving the gay scenes of Paris , we return to those of the gloomy Apennine , where Emily 's thoughts were still faithful to Valancourt . 
Looking to him as to her only hope , she recollected , with jealous exactness , every assurance and every proof she had witnessed of his affection ; read again and again the letters she had received from him ; weighed , with intense anxiety , the force of every word , that spoke of his attachment ; and dried her tears , as she trusted in his truth . 
His disagreements with Madame Montoni , on the subject of her settlements , were now more frequent than ever ; he even confined her entirely to her own apartment , and did not scruple to threaten her with much greater severity , should she persevere in a refusal . 
Reason , had she consulted it , would now have perplexed her in the choice of a conduct to be adopted . 
It would have pointed out the danger of irritating by further opposition a man , such as Montoni had proved himself to be , and to whose power she had so entirely committed herself ; and it would also have told her , of what extreme importance to her future comfort it was , to reserve for herself those possessions , which would enable her to live independently of Montoni , should she ever escape from his immediate controul . 
But she was directed by a more decisive guide than reason -- the spirit of revenge , which urged her to oppose violence to violence , and obstinacy to obstinacy . 
Wholly confined to the solitude of her apartment , she was now reduced to solicit the society she so lately rejected ; for Emily was the only person , except Annette , with whom she was permitted to converse . 
Generously anxious for her peace , Emily , therefore , tried to persuade , when she could not convince , and sought by every gentle means to induce her to forbear that asperity of reply , which so greatly irritated Montoni . 
The pride of her aunt did sometimes soften to the soothing voice of Emily , and there even were moments , when she regarded her affectionate attentions with goodwill . 
The scenes of terrible contention , to which Emily was frequently compelled to be witness , exhausted her spirits more than any circumstances , that had occurred since her departure from Tholouse . 
The gentleness and goodness of her parents , together with the scenes of her early happiness , often stole on her mind , like the visions of a higher world ; while the characters and circumstances , now passing beneath her eye , excited both terror and surprise . 
She could scarcely have imagined , that passions so fierce and so various , as those which Montoni exhibited , could have been concentrated in one individual ; yet what more surprised her , was , that , on great occasions , he could bend these passions , wild as they were , to the cause of his interest , and generally could disguise in his countenance their operation on his mind ; but she had seen him too often , when he had thought it unnecessary to conceal his nature , to be deceived on such occasions . 
Her present life appeared like the dream of a distempered imagination , or like one of those frightful fictions , in which the wild genius of the poets sometimes delighted . 
How often did she wish to `` steal the lark 's wing , and mount the swiftest gale , '' that Languedoc and repose might once more be hers ! 
Of Count Morano 's health she made frequent enquiry ; but Annette heard only vague reports of his danger , and that his surgeon had said he would never leave the cottage alive ; while Emily could not but be shocked to think , that she , however innocently , might be the means of his death ; and Annette , who did not fail to observe her emotion , interpreted it in her own way . 
Coming one day to Emily 's apartment , with a countenance full of importance , `` What can all this mean , ma'amselle ? '' 
said she . 
said Emily , in astonishment . 
Emily again desired her to relate what she had seen , or heard . 
-- Emily looked impatient and displeased . 
I remember once , when he said to me , as I was going out of my lady 's dressing-room -- Annette , says he -- '' `` Never mind what the Signor said , '' interrupted Emily ; `` but tell me , at once , the circumstance , which has thus alarmed you . '' 
said Emily . 
In the evening , Emily had passed some melancholy hours with Madame Montoni , and was retiring to rest , when she was alarmed by a strange and loud knocking at her chamber door , and then a heavy weight fell against it , that almost burst it open . 
She called to know who was there , and receiving no answer , repeated the call ; but a chilling silence followed . 
It occurred to her -- for , at this moment , she could not reason on the probability of circumstances -- that some one of the strangers , lately arrived at the castle , had discovered her apartment , and was come with such intent , as their looks rendered too possible -- to rob , perhaps to murder , her . 
The moment she admitted this possibility , terror supplied the place of conviction , and a kind of instinctive remembrance of her remote situation from the family heightened it to a degree , that almost overcame her senses . 
She looked at the door , which led to the stair-case , expecting to see it open , and listening , in fearful silence , for a return of the noise , till she began to think it had proceeded from this door , and a wish of escaping through the opposite one rushed upon her mind . 
She went to the gallery door , and then , fearing to open it , lest some person might be silently lurking for her without , she stopped , but with her eyes fixed in expectation upon the opposite door of the stair-case . 
As thus she stood , she heard a faint breathing near her , and became convinced , that some person was on the other side of the door , which was already locked . 
She sought for other fastening , but there was none . 
While she yet listened , the breathing was distinctly heard , and her terror was not soothed , when , looking round her wide and lonely chamber , she again considered her remote situation . 
As she stood hesitating whether to call for assistance , the continuance of the stillness surprised her ; and her spirits would have revived , had she not continued to hear the faint breathing , that convinced her , the person , whoever it was , had not quitted the door . 
At length , worn out with anxiety , she determined to call loudly for assistance from her casement , and was advancing to it , when , whether the terror of her mind gave her ideal sounds , or that real ones did come , she thought footsteps were ascending the private stair case ; and , expecting to see its door unclose she forgot all other cause of alarm , and retreated towards the corridor . 
Here she endeavoured to make her escape , but , on opening the door , was very near falling over a person , who lay on the floor without . 
She screamed , and would have passed , but her trembling frame refused to support her ; and the moment , in which she leaned against the wall of the gallery , allowed her leisure to observe the figure before her , and to recognise the features of Annette . 
When Annette recovered , she was helped by Emily into the chamber , but was still unable to speak , and looked round her , as if her eyes followed some person in the room . 
Emily tried to sooth her disturbed spirits , and forbore , at present , to ask her any questions ; but the faculty of speech was never long with-held from Annette , and she explained , in broken sentences , and in her tedious way , the occasion of her disorder . 
She affirmed , and with a solemnity of conviction , that almost staggered the incredulity of Emily , that she had seen an apparition , as she was passing to her bed-room , through the corridor . 
`` Then it doubtless was the Signor , '' said Emily . 
`` You bring me strange tales , Annette , '' said Emily : `` it was but this morning , that you would have terrified me with the apprehension of murder ; and now you would persuade me , you have seen a ghost ! 
said Emily . 
Emily , whose spirits had been severely shocked , and who , therefore , did not like the thought of passing the night alone , told her she might sleep where she was . 
Wearied and disappointed , Emily first ridiculed , though she shared , her fears , and then tried to sooth them ; but neither attempt succeeded , and the girl persisted in believing and affirming , that what she had seen was nothing human . 
It was not till some time after Emily had recovered her composure , that she recollected the steps she had heard on the stair-case -- a remembrance , however , which made her insist that Annette should pass the night with her , and , with much difficulty , she , at length , prevailed , assisted by that part of the girl 's fear , which concerned the corridor . 
Early on the following morning , as Emily crossed the hall to the ramparts , she heard a noisy bustle in the court-yard , and the clatter of horses ' hoofs . 
Such unusual sounds excited her curiosity ; and , instead of going to the ramparts , she went to an upper casement , from whence she saw , in the court below , a large party of horsemen , dressed in a singular , but uniform , habit , and completely , though variously , armed . 
As one of these cloaks glanced aside , she saw , beneath , daggers , apparently of different sizes , tucked into the horseman 's belt . 
She further observed , that these were carried , in the same manner , by many of the horsemen without cloaks , most of whom bore also pikes , or javelins . 
Whether these caps gave a fierce air to the countenance , or that the countenances they surmounted had naturally such an appearance , Emily thought she had never , till then , seen an assemblage of faces so savage and terrific . 
While she gazed , she almost fancied herself surrounded by banditti ; and a vague thought glanced athwart her fancy -- that Montoni was the captain of the group before her , and that this castle was to be the place of rendezvous . 
The strange and horrible supposition was but momentary , though her reason could supply none more probable , and though she discovered , among the band , the strangers she had formerly noticed with so much alarm , who were now distinguished by the black plume . 
While she continued gazing , Cavigni , Verezzi , and Bertolini came forth from the hall , habited like the rest , except that they wore hats , with a mixed plume of black and scarlet , and that their arms differed from those of the rest of the party . 
As they mounted their horses , Emily was struck with the exulting joy , expressed on the visage of Verezzi , while Cavigni was gay , yet with a shade of thought on his countenance ; and , as he managed his horse with dexterity , his graceful and commanding figure , which exhibited the majesty of a hero , had never appeared to more advantage . 
Emily , as she observed him , thought he somewhat resembled Valancourt , in the spirit and dignity of his person ; but she looked in vain for the noble , benevolent countenance -- the soul 's intelligence , which overspread the features of the latter . 
As she was hoping , she scarcely knew why , that Montoni would accompany the party , he appeared at the hall door , but unaccoutred . 
Emily then retired from the casement , and , now certain of being unmolested , went to walk on the ramparts , from whence she soon after saw the party winding among the mountains to the west , appearing and disappearing between the woods , till distance confused their figures , consolidated their numbers , and only a dingy mass appeared moving along the heights . 
Emily observed , that no workmen were on the ramparts , and that the repairs of the fortifications seemed to be completed . 
While she sauntered thoughtfully on , she heard distant footsteps , and , raising her eyes , saw several men lurking under the castle walls , who were evidently not workmen , but looked , as if they would have accorded well with the party , which was gone . 
The Signor 's reserve to his wife , on this subject , was probably nothing more than usual ; yet , to Emily , it gave an air of mystery to the whole affair , that seemed to hint , there was danger , if not villany , in his schemes . 
Emily also was retiring , but her aunt desired she would stay ; and Montoni had so often made her a witness of their contention , that he no longer had scruples on that account . 
Montoni answered her only with a look of scorn ; and Emily whispered something to her . 
`` It does not signify , '' said her aunt : `` I will know ; and I will know , too , what the castle has been fortified for . '' 
Montoni looked at her for a moment with a steady and stern countenance ; while Emily trembled , and his wife , for once , thought she had said too much . 
Emily now fell at his feet , and , with tears of terror , supplicated for her aunt , who sat , trembling with fear , and indignation ; now ready to pour forth execrations , and now to join the intercessions of Emily . 
Montoni , however , soon interrupted these entreaties with an horrible oath ; and , as he burst from Emily , leaving his cloak in her hand , she fell to the floor , with a force , that occasioned her a severe blow on the forehead . 
But he quitted the room , without attempting to raise her , whose attention was called from herself , by a deep groan from Madame Montoni , who continued otherwise unmoved in her chair , and had not fainted . 
Emily , hastening to her assistance , saw her eyes rolling , and her features convulsed . 
Having spoken to her , without receiving an answer , she brought water , and supported her head , while she held it to her lips ; but the increasing convulsions soon compelled Emily to call for assistance . 
On her way through the hall , in search of Annette , she met Montoni , whom she told what had happened , and conjured to return and comfort her aunt ; but he turned silently away , with a look of indifference , and went out upon the ramparts . 
Having lifted her into the adjoining room , and laid her on the bed , the force of her disorder still made all their strength necessary to hold her , while Annette trembled and sobbed , and old Carlo looked silently and piteously on , as his feeble hands grasped those of his mistress , till , turning his eyes upon Emily , he exclaimed , `` God God ! 
Emily looked calmly at him , and saw his enquiring eyes fixed on her : and Annette , looking up , screamed loudly ; for Emily 's face was stained with blood , which continued to fall slowly from her forehead : but her attention had been so entirely occupied by the scene before her , that she had felt no pain from the wound . 
She now held an handkerchief to her face , and , notwithstanding her faintness , continued to watch Madame Montoni , the violence of whose convulsions was abating , till at length they ceased , and left her in a kind of stupor . 
`` My aunt must remain quiet , '' said Emily . 
`` Thank you , my friend , for your consisideration , '' said Emily , smiling kindly : `` the wound is trifling , it came by a fall . '' 
Carlo shook his head , and left the room ; and Emily , with Annette , continued to watch by her aunt . 
asked Annette in a whisper ; but Emily quieted her fears on the subject . 
They continued watching silently , till Madame Montoni uttered a low sigh , when Emily took her hand , and spoke soothingly to her ; but the former gazed with unconscious eyes , and it was long before she knew her niece . 
Her first words then enquired for Montoni ; to which Emily replied by an entreaty , that she would compose her spirits , and consent to be kept quiet , adding , that , if she wished any message to be conveyed to him , she would herself deliver it . 
`` No , '' said her aunt faintly , `` no -- I have nothing new to tell him . 
Emily replied , that he had not spoken , on the subject , since Madame Montoni heard him ; and then she tried to divert her attention to some other topic ; but her aunt seemed to be inattentive to what she said , and lost in secret thoughts . 
Emily , having brought her some refreshment , now left her to the care of Annette , and went in search of Montoni , whom she found on a remote part of the rampart , conversing among a group of the men described by Annette . 
They stood round him with fierce , yet subjugated , looks , while he , speaking earnestly , and pointing to the walls , did not perceive Emily , who remained at some distance , waiting till he should be at leisure , and observing involuntarily the appearance of one man , more savage than his fellows , who stood resting on his pike , and looking , over the shoulders of a comrade , at Montoni , to whom he listened with uncommon earnestness . 
`` At sun-set , Signor , '' replied one or two of them , and walked away ; while Emily approached Montoni , who appeared desirous of avoiding her : but , though she observed this , she had courage to proceed . 
She endeavoured to intercede once more for her aunt , represented to him her sufferings , and urged the danger of exposing her to a cold apartment in her present state . 
When Emily ventured still to plead , he sternly silenced and rebuked her for interfering in his domestic affairs , but , at length , dismissed her with this concession -- That he would not remove Madame Montoni , on the ensuing night , but allow her till the next to consider , whether she would resign her settlements , or be imprisoned in the east turret of the castle , `` where she shall find , '' he added , `` a punishment she may not expect . '' 
Emily then hastened to inform her aunt of this short respite and of the alternative , that awaited her , to which the latter made no reply , but appeared thoughtful , while Emily , in consideration of her extreme languor , wished to sooth her mind by leading it to less interesting topics : and , though these efforts were unsuccessful , and Madame Montoni became peevish , her resolution , on the contended point , seemed somewhat to relax , and Emily recommended , as her only means of safety , that she should submit to Montoni 's demand . 
`` You know not what you advise , '' said her aunt . 
`` I was ignorant of that circumstance , madam , '' replied Emily , `` but the knowledge of it can not with-hold me from advising you to adopt the conduct , which not only your peace , but , I fear , your safety requires , and I entreat , that you will not suffer a consideration comparatively so trifling , to make you hesitate a moment in resigning them . '' 
Her aunt appeared to be affected . 
`` You are not unworthy of these estates , niece , '' said she : `` I would wish to keep them for your sake -- you shew a virtue I did not expect . '' 
said Emily sorrowfully . 
here is no exertion of virtue , '' rejoined Emily , `` for here is no temptation to be overcome . '' 
`` Yet Monsieur Valancourt '' -- said her aunt . 
interrupted Emily , anticipating what she would have said , `` do not let me glance on that subject : do not let my mind be stained with a wish so shockingly self-interested . '' 
She immediately changed the topic , and continued with Madame Montoni , till she withdrew to her apartment for the night . 
As she passed along the wide and lonely galleries , dusky and silent , she felt forlorn and apprehensive of -- she scarcely knew what ; but when , entering the corridor , she recollected the incident of the preceding night , a dread seized her , lest a subject of alarm , similar to that , which had befallen Annette , should occur to her , and which , whether real , or ideal , would , she felt , have an almost equal effect upon her weakened spirits . 
Soon after , Emily heard the door fastened on the inside , and she withdrew to her chamber , wondering at what she had witnessed . 
As she closed her casement , she heard footsteps on the terrace below , and saw imperfectly , through the gloom , several persons advancing , who passed under the casement . 
She then heard the clink of arms , and , in the next moment , the watch-word ; when , recollecting the command she had overheard from Montoni , and the hour of the night , she understood , that these men were , for the first time , relieving guard in the castle . 
Having listened till all was again still , she retired to sleep . 
ON the following morning , Emily went early to the apartment of Madame Montoni , who had slept well , and was much recovered . 
Her spirits also had returned with her health , and her resolution to oppose Montoni 's demands revived , though it yet struggled with her fears , which Emily , who trembled for the consequence of further opposition , endeavoured to confirm . 
Her aunt , as has been already shewn , had a disposition , which delighted in contradiction , and which taught her , when unpleasant circumstances were offered to her understanding , not to enquire into their truth , but to seek for arguments , by which she might make them appear false . 
Long habit had so entirely confirmed this natural propensity , that she was not conscious of possessing it . 
Emily 's remonstrances and representations , therefore , roused her pride , instead of alarming , or convincing her judgment , and she still relied upon the discovery of some means , by which she might yet avoid submitting to the demand of her husband . 
Considering , that , if she could once escape from his castle , she might defy his power , and , obtaining a decisive separation , live in comfort on the estates , that yet remained for her , she mentioned this to her niece , who accorded with her in the wish , but differed from her , as to the probability of its completion . 
She represented the impossibility of passing the gates , secured and guarded as they were , and the extreme danger of committing her design to the discretion of a servant , who might either purposely betray , or accidentally disclose it . 
-- Montoni 's vengeance would also disdain restraint , if her intention was detected : and , though Emily wished , as fervently as she could do , to regain her freedom , and return to France , she consulted only Madame Montoni 's safety , and persevered in advising her to relinquish her settlement , without braving further outrage . 
The struggle of contrary emotions , however , continued to rage in her aunt 's bosom , and she still brooded over the chance of effecting an escape . 
While she thus sat , Montoni entered the room , and , without noticing his wife 's indisposition , said , that he came to remind her of the impolicy of trifling with him , and that he gave her only till the evening to determine , whether she would consent to his demand , or compel him , by a refusal , to remove her to the east turret . 
He added , that a party of cavaliers would dine with him , that day , and that he expected she would sit at the head of the table , where Emily , also , must be present . 
Madame Montoni was now on the point of uttering an absolute refusal , but , suddenly considering , that her liberty , during this entertainment , though circumscribed , might favour her further plans , she acquiesced , with seeming reluctance , and Montoni , soon after , left the apartment . 
His command struck Emily with surprise and apprehension , who shrunk from the thought of being exposed to the gaze of strangers , such as her fancy represented these to be , and the words of Count Morano , now again recollected , did not sooth her fears . 
When she withdrew to prepare for dinner , she dressed herself with even more simplicity than usual , that she might escape observation -- a policy , which did not avail her , for , as she re-passed to her aunt 's apartment , she was met by Montoni , who censured what he called her prudish appearance , and insisted , that she would wear the most splendid dress she had , even that , which had been prepared for her intended nuptials with Count Morano , and which , it now appeared , her aunt had carefully brought with her from Venice . 
In it , her beautiful chesnut tresses were negligently bound up in pearls , and suffered to fall back again on her neck . 
The simplicity of a better taste , than Madame Montoni 's , was conspicuous in this dress , splendid as it was , and Emily 's unaffected beauty never had appeared more captivatingly . 
She had now only to hope , that Montoni 's order was prompted , not by any extraordinary design , but by an ostentation of displaying his family , richly attired , to the eyes of strangers ; yet nothing less than his absolute command could have prevailed with her to wear a dress , that had been designed for such an offensive purpose , much less to have worn it on this occasion . 
As she descended to dinner , the emotion of her mind threw a faint blush over her countenance , and heightened its interesting expression ; for timidity had made her linger in her apartment , till the utmost moment , and , when she entered the hall , in which a kind of state dinner was spread , Montoni and his guests were already seated at the table . 
She was then going to place herself by her aunt ; but Montoni waved his hand , and two of the cavaliers rose , and seated her between them . 
As Emily timidly surveyed them , she remembered the scene of the preceding morning , and again almost fancied herself surrounded by banditti ; then , looking back to the tranquillity of her early life , she felt scarcely less astonishment , than grief , at her present situation . 
The lightest footsteps of the servants , as they advanced through these , were returned in whispering echoes , and their figures , seen at a distance imperfectly through the dusk , frequently awakened Emily 's imagination . 
She looked alternately at Montoni , at his guests and on the surrounding scene ; and then , remembering her dear native province , her pleasant home and the simplicity and goodness of the friends , whom she had lost , grief and surprise again occupied her mind . 
When her thoughts could return from these considerations , she fancied she observed an air of authority towards his guests , such as she had never before seen him assume , though he had always been distinguished by an haughty carriage ; there was something also in the manners of the strangers , that seemed perfectly , though not servilely , to acknowledge his superiority . 
As to those , therefore , he contented himself with swearing , that no man should pass the gates , till this extraordinary affair had been investigated , and then sternly bade his wife retire to her apartment , whither he suffered Emily to attend her . 
In about half an hour , he followed to the dressing-room ; and Emily observed , with horror , his dark countenance and quivering lip , and heard him denounce vengeance on her aunt . 
Emily 's fainting spirits were roused by astonishment , as she heard her aunt accused of a crime so atrocious , and she could not , for a moment , admit the possibility of her guilt . 
Meanwhile Madame Montoni 's agitation did not permit her to reply ; alternately her complexion varied from livid paleness to a crimson flush ; and she trembled , -- but , whether with fear , or with indignation , it were difficult to decide . 
`` Spare your words , '' said Montoni , seeing her about to speak , `` your countenance makes full confession of your crime . 
said Emily solemnly , `` this dreadful charge , I would answer with my life , is false . 
Nay , Signor , '' she added , observing the severity of his countenance , `` this is no moment for restraint , on my part I do not scruple to tell you , that you are deceived -- most wickedly deceived , by the suggestion of some person , who aims at the ruin of my aunt : -- it is impossible , that you could yourself have imagined a crime so hideous . '' 
Montoni , his lips trembling more than before , replied only , `` If you value your own safety , '' addressing Emily , `` you will be silent . 
Emily raised her eyes calmly to heaven . 
said she . 
He turned to his wife , who had now recovered her spirits , and who vehemently and wildly remonstrated upon this mysterious suspicion : but Montoni 's rage heightened with her indignation , and Emily , dreading the event of it , threw herself between them , and clasped his knees in silence , looking up in his face with an expression , that might have softened the heart of a fiend . 
Whether his was hardened by a conviction of Madame Montoni 's guilt , or that a bare suspicion of it made him eager to exercise vengeance , he was totally and alike insensible to the distress of his wife , and to the pleading looks of Emily , whom he made no attempt to raise , but was vehemently menacing both , when he was called out of the room by some person at the door . 
As he shut the door , Emily heard him turn the lock and take out the key ; so that Madame Montoni and herself were now prisoners ; and she saw that his designs became more and more terrible . 
Her endeavours to explain his motives for this circumstance were almost as ineffectual as those to sooth the distress of her aunt , whose innocence she could not doubt ; but she , at length , accounted for Montoni 's readiness to suspect his wife by his own consciousness of cruelty towards her , and for the sudden violence of his present conduct against both , before even his suspicions could be completely formed , by his general eagerness to effect suddenly whatever he was led to desire and his carelessness of justice , or humanity , in accomplishing it . 
Madame Montoni , after some time , again looked round , in search of a possibility of escape from the castle , and conversed with Emily on the subject , who was now willing to encounter any hazard , though she forbore to encourage a hope in her aunt , which she herself did not admit . 
How strongly the edifice was secured , and how vigilantly guarded , she knew too well ; and trembled to commit their safety to the caprice of the servant , whose assistance they must solicit . 
Old Carlo was compassionate , but he seemed to be too much in his master 's interest to be trusted by them ; Annette could of herself do little , and Emily knew Ludovico only from her report . 
At present , however , these considerations were useless , Madame Montoni and her niece being shut up from all intercourse , even with the persons , whom there might be these reasons to reject . 
Emily , as she listened anxiously to the murmur , that sounded along the gallery , sometimes fancied she heard the clashing of swords , and , when she considered the nature of the provocation , given by Montoni , and his impetuosity , it appeared probable , that nothing less than arms would terminate the contention . 
Madame Montoni , having exhausted all her expressions of indignation , and Emily , hers of comfort , they remained silent , in that kind of breathless stillness , which , in nature , often succeeds to the uproar of conflicting elements ; a stillness , like the morning , that dawns upon the ruins of an earthquake . 
An uncertain kind of terror pervaded Emily 's mind ; the circumstances of the past hour still came dimly and confusedly to her memory ; and her thoughts were various and rapid , though without tumult . 
From this state of waking visions she was recalled by a knocking at the chamber-door , and , enquiring who was there , heard the whispering voice of Annette . 
said Emily , in a tremulous voice . 
cried Emily , `` fly ! 
`` Be calm , madam , '' said Emily , turning to her aunt , `` I entreat you be calm , I am not frightened -- not frightened in the least , do not you be alarmed . '' 
`` You can scarcely support yourself , '' replied her aunt ; `` Merciful God ! 
`` They come , perhaps , to liberate us , '' said Emily , `` Signor Montoni perhaps is -- is conquered . '' 
The belief of his death gave her spirits a sudden shock , and she grew faint as she saw him in imagination , expiring at her feet . 
Emily turned her languid eyes to the door , but terror deprived her of utterance . 
`` Execute your orders , '' said he , turning to them , and pointing to his wife , who shrieked , but was immediately carried from the room ; while Emily sunk , senseless , on a couch , by which she had endeavoured to support herself . 
When she recovered , she was alone , and recollected only , that Madame Montoni had been there , together with some unconnected particulars of the preceding transaction , which were , however , sufficient to renew all her terror . 
She looked wildly round the apartment , as if in search of some means of intelligence , concerning her aunt , while neither her own danger , or an idea of escaping from the room , immediately occurred . 
When her recollection was more complete , she raised herself and went , but with only a faint hope , to examine whether the door was unfastened . 
It was so , and she then stepped timidly out into the gallery , but paused there , uncertain which way she should proceed . 
Her first wish was to gather some information , as to her aunt , and she , at length , turned her steps to go to the lesser hall , where Annette and the other servants usually waited . 
Emily might now have appeared , like an angel of light , encompassed by fiends . 
At length , she reached the lesser hall , which was silent and deserted , but , panting for breath , she sat down to recover herself . 
The total stillness of this place was as awful as the tumult , from which she had escaped : but she had now time to recall her scattered thoughts , to remember her personal danger , and to consider of some means of safety . 
She perceived , that it was useless to seek Madame Montoni , through the wide extent and intricacies of the castle , now , too , when every avenue seemed to be beset by ruffians ; in this hall she could not resolve to stay , for she knew not how soon it might become their place of rendezvous ; and , though she wished to go to her chamber , she dreaded again to encounter them on the way . 
Thus she sat , trembling and hesitating , when a distant murmur broke on the silence , and grew louder and louder , till she distinguished voices and steps approaching . 
She then rose to go , but the sounds came along the only passage , by which she could depart , and she was compelled to await in the hall , the arrival of the persons , whose steps she heard . 
As these advanced , she distinguished groans , and then saw a man borne slowly along by four others . 
Her spirits faltered at the sight , and she leaned against the wall for support . 
The bearers , meanwhile , entered the hall , and , being too busily occupied to detain , or even notice Emily , she attempted to leave it , but her strength failed , and she again sat down on the bench . 
A damp chillness came over her ; her sight became confused ; she knew not what had passed , or where she was , yet the groans of the wounded person still vibrated on her heart . 
In a few moments , the tide of life seemed again to flow ; she began to breathe more freely , and her senses revived . 
She had not fainted , nor had ever totally lost her consciousness , but had contrived to support herself on the bench ; still without courage to turn her eyes upon the unfortunate object , which remained near her , and about whom the men were yet too much engaged to attend to her . 
When her strength returned , she rose , and was suffered to leave the hall , though her anxiety , having produced some vain enquiries , concerning Madame Montoni , had thus made a discovery of herself . 
Towards her chamber she now hastened , as fast as her steps would bear her , for she still perceived , upon her passage , the sounds of confusion at a distance , and she endeavoured , by taking her way through some obscure rooms , to avoid encountering the persons , whose looks had terrified her before , as well as those parts of the castle , where the tumult might still rage . 
At length , she reached her chamber , and , having secured the door of the corridor , felt herself , for a moment , in safety . 
She sat down , near one of the casements , and , as she gazed on the mountain-view beyond , the deep repose of its beauty struck her with all the force of contrast , and she could scarcely believe herself so near a scene of savage discord . 
Emily tried to tranquillize her spirits , but anxiety made her constantly listen for some sound , and often look out upon the ramparts , where all , however , was lonely and still . 
As a sense of her own immediate danger had decreased , her apprehension concerning Madame Montoni heightened , who , she remembered , had been fiercely threatened with confinement in the east turret , and it was possible , that her husband had satisfied his present vengeance with this punishment . 
She , therefore , determined , when night should return , and the inhabitants of the castle should be asleep , to explore the way to the turret , which , as the direction it stood in was mentioned , appeared not very difficult to be done . 
She knew , indeed , that although her aunt might be there , she could afford her no effectual assistance , but it might give her some comfort even to know , that she was discovered , and to hear the sound of her niece 's voice ; for herself , any certainty , concerning Madame Montoni 's fate , appeared more tolerable , than this exhausting suspense . 
Meanwhile , Annette did not appear , and Emily was surprised , and somewhat alarmed for her , whom , in the confusion of the late scene , various accidents might have befallen , and it was improbable , that she would have failed to come to her apartment , unless something unfortunate had happened . 
Being not once disturbed by a message , or a sound , it appeared , that Montoni had wholly forgotten her , and it gave her some comfort to find , that she could be so unnoticed . 
She endeavoured to withdraw her thoughts from the anxiety , that preyed upon them , but they refused controul ; she could neither read , or draw , and the tones of her lute were so utterly discordant with the present state of her feelings , that she could not endure them for a moment . 
The sun , at length , set behind the western mountains ; his fiery beams faded from the clouds , and then a dun melancholy purple drew over them , and gradually involved the features of the country below . 
Twilight had now spread its gloom over every object ; the dismal obscurity of her chamber recalled fearful thoughts , but she remembered , that to procure a light she must pass through a great extent of the castle , and , above all , through the halls , where she had already experienced so much horror . 
Darkness , indeed , in the present state of her spirits , made silence and solitude terrible to her ; it would also prevent the possibility of her finding her way to the turret , and condemn her to remain in suspense , concerning the fate of her aunt ; yet she dared not to venture forth for a lamp . 
Continuing at the casement , that she might catch the last lingering gleam of evening , a thousand vague images of fear floated on her fancy . 
`` What if some of these ruffians , '' said she , `` should find out the private stair-case , and in the darkness of night steal into my chamber ! '' 
Then , recollecting the mysterious inhabitant of the neighbouring apartment , her terror changed its object . 
`` He is not a prisoner , '' said she , `` though he remains in one chamber , for Montoni did not fasten the door , when he left it ; the unknown person himself did this ; it is certain , therefore , he can come out when he pleases . '' 
She paused , for , notwithstanding the terrors of darkness , she considered it to be very improbable , whoever he was , that he could have any interest in intruding upon her retirement ; and again the subject of her emotion changed , when , remembering her nearness to the chamber , where the veil had formerly disclosed a dreadful spectacle , she doubted whether some passage might not communicate between it and the insecure door of the stair case . 
It was now entirely dark , and she left the casement . 
As she fat with her eyes fixed on the hearth , she thought she perceived there a spark of light ; it twinkled and disappeared , and then again was visible . 
At length , with much care , she fanned the embers of a wood fire , that had been lighted in the morning , into flame , and , having communicated it to a lamp , which always stood in her room , felt a satisfaction not to be conceived , without a review of her situation . 
Her first care was to guard the door of the stair-case , for which purpose she placed against it all the furniture she could move , and she was thus employed , for some time , at the end of which she had another instance how much more oppressive misfortune is to the idle , than to the busy ; for , having then leisure to think over all the circumstances of her present afflictions , she imagined a thousand evils for futurity , and these real and ideal subjects of distress alike wounded her mind . 
Thus heavily moved the hours till midnight , when she counted the sullen notes of the great clock , as they rolled along the rampart , unmingled with any sound , except the distant foot-fall of a sentinel , who came to relieve guard . 
She now thought she might venture towards the turret , and , having gently opened the chamber door to examine the corridor , and to listen if any person was stirring in the castle , found all around in perfect stillness . 
Yet no sooner had she left the room , than she perceived a light flash on the walls of the corridor , and , without waiting to see by whom it was carried , she shrunk back , and closed her door . 
No one approaching , she conjectured , that it was Montoni going to pay his midnight visit to her unknown neighbour , and she determined to wait , till he should have retired to his own apartment . 
When the chimes had tolled another half hour , she once more opened the door , and , perceiving that no person was in the corridor , hastily crossed into a passage , that led along the south side of the castle towards the stair-case , whence she believed she could easily find her way to the turret . 
Often pausing on her way , listening apprehensively to the murmurs of the wind , and looking fearfully onward into the gloom of the long passages , she , at length , reached the stair-case ; but there her perplexity began . 
Two passages appeared , of which she knew not how to prefer one , and was compelled , at last , to decide by chance , rather than by circumstances . 
That she entered , opened first into a wide gallery , along which she passed lightly and swiftly ; for the lonely aspect of the place awed her , and she started at the echo of her own steps . 
On a sudden , she thought she heard a voice , and , not distinguishing from whence it came , feared equally to proceed , or to return . 
For some moments , she stood in an attitude of listening expectation , shrinking almost from herself and scarcely daring to look round her . 
The voice came again , but , though it was now near her , terror did not allow her to judge exactly whence it proceeded . 
She thought , however , that it was the voice of complaint , and her belief was soon confirmed by a low moaning sound , that seemed to proceed from one of the chambers , opening into the gallery . 
It instantly occurred to her , that Madame Montoni might be there confined , and she advanced to the door to speak , but was checked by considering , that she was , perhaps , going to commit herself to a stranger , who might discover her to Montoni ; for , though this person , whoever it was , seemed to be in affliction , it did not follow , that he was a prisoner . 
While these thoughts passed over her mind , and left her still in hesitation , the voice spoke again , and , calling `` Ludovico , '' she then perceived it to be that of Annette ; on which , no longer hesitating , she went in joy to answer her . 
`` It is I , '' said Emily , trying to open the door . 
`` If you can open the door , let me in , '' said Emily , `` here is no person to hurt you . '' 
Emily now lost her patience , and , her fear of being overheard increasing , she was even nearly about to leave the door , when she considered , that Annette might , possibly , know something of the situation of Madame Montoni , or direct her to the turret . 
` At length , she obtained a reply , though little satisfactory , to her questions , for Annette knew nothing of Madame Montoni , and only conjured Emily to tell her what was become of Ludovico . 
Of him she had no information to give , and she again asked who had shut Annette up . 
Emily suddenly remembered the wounded person , whom she had seen borne into the servants ' hall , and she scarcely doubted , that he was Ludovico , but she concealed the circumstance from Annette , and endeavoured to comfort her . 
`` Nay , Annette , you do not think I can wait in the gallery all night , '' replied Emily . 
Emily could scarcely forbear smiling at the heterogeneous distresses of Annette , though she sincerely pitied them , and said what she could to sooth her . 
Emily grew very faint ; could support herself no longer , and had scarcely presence of mind to set down the lamp , and place herself on a step . 
When her recollection returned , she spoke again at the door , and again attempted to open it , and , having lingered for some time , without receiving any answer , or hearing a sound , she descended the turret , and , with all the swiftness her feebleness would permit , sought her own apartment . 
As she turned into the corridor , the door of a chamber opened , from whence Montoni came forth ; but Emily , more terrified than ever to behold him , shrunk back into the passage soon enough to escape being noticed , and heard him close the door , which she had perceived was the same she formerly observed . 
Having here listened to his departing steps , till their saint sound was lost in distance , she ventured to her apartment , and , securing it once again , retired to her bed , leaving the lamp burning on the hearth . 
But sleep was fled from her harassed mind , to which images of horror alone occurred . 
She endeavoured to think it possible , that Madame Montoni had not been taken to the turret ; but , when she recollected the former menaces of her husband and the terrible spirit of vengeance , which he had displayed on a late occasion ; when she remembered his general character , the looks of the men , who had forced Madame Montoni from her apartment , and the written traces on the stairs of the turret -- she could not doubt , that her aunt had been carried thither , and could scarcely hope , that she had not been carried to be murdered . 
The grey of morning had long dawned through her casements , before Emily closed her eyes in sleep ; when wearied nature , at length , yielded her a respite from suffering . 
Emily remained in her chamber , on the following morning , without receiving any notice from Montoni , or seeing a human being , except the armed men , who sometimes passed on the terrace below . 
Having tasted no food since the dinner of the preceding day , extreme faintness made her feel the necessity of quitting the asylum of her apartment to obtain refreshment , and she was also very anxious to procure liberty for Annette . 
Willing , however , to defer venturing forth , as long as possible , and considering , whether she should apply to Montoni , or to the compassion of some other person , her excessive anxiety concerning her aunt , at length , overcame her abhorrence of his presence , and she determined to go to him , and to entreat , that he would suffer her to see Madame Montoni . 
Meanwhile , it was too certain , from the absence of Annette , that some accident had befallen Ludovico , and that she was still in confinement ; Emily , therefore , resolved also to visit the chamber , where she had spoken to her , on the preceding night , and , if the poor girl was yet there , to inform Montoni of her situation . 
It was unnecessary to call Annette , whose lamentations were audible upon the first approach to the gallery , and who , bewailing her own and Ludovico 's fate , told Emily , that she should certainly be starved to death , if she was not let out immediately . 
Emily replied , that she was going to beg her release of Montoni ; but the terrors of hunger now yielded to those of the Signor , and , when Emily left her , she was loudly entreating , that her place of refuge might be concealed from him . 
As Emily drew near the great hall , the sounds she heard and the people she met in the passages renewed her alarm . 
The latter , however , were peaceable , and did not interrupt her , though they looked earnestly at her , as she passed , and sometimes spoke . 
On crossing the hall towards the cedar room , where Montoni usually sat , she perceived , on the pavement , fragments of swords , some tattered garments stained with blood , and almost expected to have seen among them a dead body ; but from such a spectacle she was , at present , spared . 
As she approached the room , the sound of several voices issued from within , and a dread of appearing before many strangers , as well as of irritating Montoni by such an intrusion , trusion , made her pause and falter from her purpose . 
She looked up through the long arcades of the hall , in search of a servant , who might bear a message , but no one appeared , and the urgency of what she had to request made her still linger near the door . 
The voices within were not in contention , though she distinguished those of several of the guests of the preceding day ; but still her resolution failed , whenever she would have tapped at the door , and she had determined to walk in the hall , till some person should appear , who might call Montoni from the room , when , as she turned from the door , it was suddenly opened by himself . 
Emily trembled , and was confused , while he almost started with surprise , and all the terrors of his countenance unfolded themselves . 
She forgot all she would have said , and neither enquired for her aunt , or entreated for Annette , but stood silent and embarrassed . 
After closing the door he reproved her for a meanness , of which she had not been guilty , and sternly questioned her what she had overheard ; an accusation , which revived her recollection so far , that she assured him she had not come thither with an intention to listen to his conversation , but to entreat his compassion for her aunt , and for Annette . 
Montoni seemed to doubt this assertion , for he regarded her with a scrutinizing look ; and the doubt evidently arose from no trifling interest . 
Emily then further explained herself , and concluded with entreating him to inform her , where her aunt was placed , and to permit , that she might visit her ; but he looked upon her only with a malignant smile , which instantaneously confirmed her worst fears for her aunt , and , at that moment , she had not courage to renew her entreaties . 
`` For Annette , '' said he , -- `` if you go to Carlo , he will release the girl ; the foolish fellow , who shut her up , died yesterday . '' 
Emily shuddered . 
-- `` But my aunt , Signor '' -- said she , `` O tell me of my aunt ! '' 
He would have passed on , but Emily , in a voice of agony , that could not be wholly resisted , conjured him to tell her , where Madame Montoni was ; while he paused , and she anxiously watched his countenance , a trumpet sounded , and , in the next moment , she heard the heavy gates of the portal open , and then the clattering of horses ' hoofs in the court , with the confusion of many voices . 
She stood for a moment hesitating whether she should follow Montoni , who , at the sound of the trumpet , had passed through the hall , and , turning her eyes whence it came , she saw through the door , that opened beyond a long perspective of arches into the courts , a party of horsemen , whom she judged , as well as the distance and her embarrassment would allow , to be the same she had seen depart , a few days before . 
But she staid not to scrutinize , for , when the trumpet sounded again , the chevaliers rushed out of the cedar room , and men came running into the hall from every quarter of the castle . 
Emily once more hurried for shelter to her own apartment . 
Thither she was still pursued by images of horror . 
She re-considered Montoni 's manner and words , when he had spoken of his wife , and they served only to confirm her most terrible suspicions . 
`` Thank you , Carlo , '' said Emily , `` this is very good of you . 
Emily then renewed her enquiries , concerning Madame Montoni , but Carlo had been employed at the other end of the castle , during the time , that she was removed , and he had heard nothing since , concerning her . 
While he spoke , Emily looked steadily at him , for she scarcely knew whether he was really ignorant , or concealed his knowledge of the truth from a fear of offending his master . 
On her enquiring his meaning , `` Ah , Signora ! '' 
She then desired him to release Annette , and , having described the chamber in which the poor girl was confined , he promised to obey her immediately , and was departing , when she remembered to ask who were the persons just arrived . 
said Emily , and made her sit down . 
and she continued to moan and lament , till Emily thought it necessary to check her excess of grief . 
`` We are continually losing dear friends by death , '' said she , with a sigh , that came from her heart . 
`` You will meet Ludovico in a better world , I hope , '' added Emily . 
exclaimed Emily , `` does he live ? '' 
Emily said she hoped not , but this expression of hope Annette thought implied fear , and her own increased in proportion , as Emily endeavoured to encourage her . 
To enquiries , concerning Madame Montoni , she could give no satisfactory answers . 
`` I quite forgot to ask among the servants , ma'amselle , '' said she , `` for I could think of nobody but poor Ludovico . '' 
Annette 's grief was now somewhat assuaged , and Emily sent her to make enquiries , concerning her lady , of whom , however , she could obtain no intelligence , some of the people she spoke with being really ignorant of her fate , and others having probably received orders to conceal it . 
This day passed with Emily in continued grief and anxiety for her aunt ; but she was unmolested by any notice from Montoni ; and , now that Annette was liberated , she obtained food , without exposing herself to danger , or impertinence . 
Emily 's heart was not so ; but her sufferings , though deep , partook of the gentle character of her mind . 
The air refreshed her , and she continued at the casement , looking on the shadowy scene , over which the planets burned with a clear light , amid the deep blue æther , as they silently moved in their destined course . 
She remembered how often she had gazed on them with her dear father , how often he had pointed out their way in the heavens , and explained their laws ; and these reflections led to others , which , in an almost equal degree , awakened her grief and astonishment . 
They brought a retrospect of all the strange and mournful events , which had occurred since she lived in peace with her parents . 
And to Emily , who had been so tenderly educated , so tenderly loved , who once knew only goodness and happiness -- to her , the late events and her present situation -- in a foreign land -- in a remote castle -- surrounded by vice and violence -- seemed more like the visions of a distempered imagination , than the circumstances of truth . 
She wept to think of what her parents would have suffered , could they have foreseen the events of her future life . 
While she raised her streaming eyes to heaven , she observed the same planet , which she had seen in Languedoc , on the night , preceding her father 's death , rise above the eastern towers of the castle , while she remembered the conversation , which had passed , concerning the probable state of departed souls ; remembered , also , the solemn music she had heard , and to which the tenderness of her spirits had , in spite of her reason , given a superstitious meaning . 
At these recollections she wept again , and continued musing , when suddenly the notes of sweet music passed on the air . 
A superstitious dread stole over her ; she stood listening , for some moments , in trembling expectation , and then endeavoured to recollect her thoughts , and to reason herself into composure ; but human reason can not establish her laws on subjects , lost in the obscurity of imagination , any more than the eye can ascertain the form of objects , that only glimmer through the dimness of night . 
Her surprise , on hearing such soothing and delicious sounds , was , at least , justifiable ; for it was long -- very long , since she had listened to any thing like melody . 
The fierce trumpet and the shrill fife were the only instruments she had heard , since her arrival , at Udolpho . 
When her mind was somewhat more composed , she tried to ascertain from what quarter the sounds proceeded , and thought they came from below ; but whether from a room of the castle , or from the terrace , she could not with certainty judge . 
She continued to listen , sunk in that pleasing repose , which soft music leaves on the mind -- but it came no more . 
Upon this strange circumstance her thoughts were long engaged , for strange it certainly was to hear music at midnight , when every inhabitant of the castle had long since retired to rest , and in a place , where nothing like harmony had been heard before , probably , for many years . 
Long-suffering had made her spirits peculiarly sensible to terror , and liable to be affected by the illusions of superstition . 
-- It now seemed to her , as if her dead father had spoken to her in that strain , to inspire her with comfort and confidence , on the subject , which had then occupied her mind . 
Yet reason told her , that this was a wild conjecture , and she was inclined to dismiss it ; but , with the inconsistency so natural , when imagination guides the thoughts , she then wavered towards a belief as wild . 
She remembered the singular event , connected with the castle , which had given it into the possession of its present owner ; and , when she considered the mysterious manner , in which its late possessor had disappeared , and that she had never since been heard of , her mind was impressed with an high degree of solemn awe ; so that , though there appeared no clue to connect that event with the late music , she was inclined fancifully to think they had some relation to each other . 
At this conjecture , a sudden chillness ran through her frame ; she looked fearfully upon the duskiness of her chamber , and the dead silence , that prevailed there , heightened to her fancy its gloomy aspect . 
At length , she left the casement , but her steps faltered , as she approached the bed , and she stopped and looked round . 
The single lamp , that burned in her spacious chamber , was expiring ; for a moment , she shrunk from the darkness beyond ; and then , ashamed of the weakness , which , however , she could not wholly conquer , went forward to the bed , where her mind did not soon know the soothings of sleep . 
She still mused on the late occurrence , and looked with anxiety to the next night , when , at the same hour , she determined to watch whether the music returned . 
`` If those sounds were human , '' aid she , `` I shall probably hear them again . 
Annette came almost breathless to Emily 's apartment in the morning . 
said she , in broken sentences , `` what news I have to tell ! 
enquired Emily , while her thoughts glanced back to the circumstance of the preceding night . 
`` This trifling is insupportable , '' said Emily ; `` prythee , Annette , do not torture my patience any longer . '' 
`` I can not guess , '' said Emily impatiently . 
said Emily . 
exclaimed Emily , recovering from the shock of this intelligence ; `` and is he come to Udolpho ! 
`` There is some truth in that , '' said Emily , who would now have concluded it was Orsino 's music , which she had heard , on the preceding night , had she not known , that he had neither taste , or skill in the art . 
But , though she was unwilling to add to the number of Annette 's surprises , by mentioning the subject of her own , she enquired , whether any person in the castle played on a musical instrument ? 
I remember once '' -- -- Emily interrupted her ; `` Have you heard no other music since you came to the castle -- none last night ? '' 
Emily evaded this question , by repeating her own . 
`` Your late lady 's , '' said Emily in a tremulous voice ; `` you have heard more , then . 
`` I know nothing , '' said Emily . 
Emily leaned her head upon her hand , and was , for some time , silent ; then , telling Annette she wished to be alone , the latter left the room . 
The remark of Annette had revived Emily 's terrible suspicion , concerning the fate of Madame Montoni ; and she resolved to make another effort to obtain certainty on this subject , by applying to Montoni once more . 
When Annette returned , a few hours after , she told Emily , that the porter of the castle wished very much to speak with her , for that he had something of importance to say ; her spirits had , however , of late been so subject to alarm , that any new circumstance excited it ; and this message from the porter , when her first surprise was over , made her look round for some lurking danger , the more suspiciously , perhaps , because she had frequently remarked the unpleasant air and countenance of this man . 
She now hesitated , whether to speak with him , doubting even , that this request was only a pretext to draw her into some danger ; but a little reflection shewed her the improbability of this , and she blushed at her weak fears . 
`` I will speak to him , Annette , '' said she ; `` desire him to come to the corridor immediately . '' 
Emily , neither approving these `` round-about passages , '' nor the other part of the request , now positively refused to go . 
`` Tell him , '' said she , `` if he has any thing of consequence to impart , I will hear him in the corridor , whenever he has an opportunity of coming thither . '' 
Emily was surprised and alarmed , at the secrecy which this man seemed to think so necessary , and hesitated whether to meet him , till , considering , that he might mean to warn her of some serious danger , she resolved to go . 
`` Soon after sun-set , '' said she , `` I will be at the end of the east rampart . 
But then the watch will be set , '' she added , recollecting herself , `` and how can Barnardine pass unobserved ? '' 
`` Well , '' said Emily , `` I must hear what he has to tell ; and , therefore , desire you will go with me to the terrace , this evening . '' 
Emily paused , and then said she would be on the terrace , an hour after sun-set ; -- `` and tell Barnardine , '' she added , `` to be punctual to the time ; for that I , also , may be observed by Signor Montoni . 
Emily now enquired , if Montoni expected any new guests ? 
said Emily , `` when did you hear this ? '' 
Emily asked some further questions , and then , desiring Annette would observe and inform her , when Montoni was alone , the girl went to deliver her message to Barnardine . 
Montoni was , however , so much engaged , during the whole day , that Emily had no opportunity of seeking a release from her terrible suspense , concerning her aunt . 
Annette was employed in watching his steps , and in attending upon Ludovico , whom she , assisted by Caterina , nursed with the utmost care ; and Emily was , of course , left much alone . 
Her thoughts dwelt often on the message of the porter , and were employed in conjecturing the subject , that occasioned it , which she sometimes imagined concerned the fate of Madame Montoni ; at others , that it related to some personal danger , which threatened herself . 
The cautious secrecy which Barnardine observed in his conduct , inclined her to believe the latter . 
As the hour of appointment drew near , her impatience increased . 
At length , the sun set ; she heard the passing steps of the sentinels going to their posts ; and waited only for Annette to accompany her to the terrace , who , soon after , came , and they descended together . 
When Emily expressed apprehensions of meeting Montoni , or some of his guests , `` O , there is no fear of that , ma'amselle , '' said Annette , `` they are all set in to feasting yet , and that Barnardine knows . '' 
They reached the first terrace , where the sentinels demanded who passed ; and Emily , having answered , walked on to the east rampart , at the entrance of which they were again stopped ; and , having again replied , were permitted to proceed . 
But Emily did not like to expose herself to the discretion of these men , at such an hour ; and , impatient to withdraw from the situation , she stepped hastily on in search of Barnardine . 
She leaned pensively on the wall of the rampart , and waited for him . 
said Emily , as she fearfully listened . 
thought Emily , `` can this man 's heart be so gay , when he has made another being so wretched ; if , indeed , my aunt is yet suffered to feel her wretchedness ? 
She looked up , with a sensation of horror , to the east turret , near which she then stood ; a light glimmered through the grates of the lower chamber , but those of the upper one were dark . 
Presently , she perceived a person moving with a lamp across the lower room ; but this circumstance revived no hope , concerning Madame Montoni , whom she had vainly sought in that apartment , which had appeared to contain only soldiers ' accoutrements . 
Emily , however , determined to attempt the outer door of the turret , as soon as Barnardine should withdraw ; and , if it was unfastened , to make another effort to discover her aunt . 
The moments passed , but still Barnardine did not appear ; and Emily , becoming uneasy , hesitated whether to wait any longer . 
She would have sent Annette to the portal to hasten him , but feared to be left alone , for it was now almost dark , and a melancholy streak of red , that still lingered in the west , was the only vestige of departed day . 
While she was conjecturing with Annette what could thus occasion his absence , they heard a key turn in the lock of the gate near them , and presently saw a man advancing . 
It was Barnardine , of whom Emily hastily enquired what he had to communicate , and desired , that he would tell her quickly , `` for I am chilled with this evening air , '' said she . 
`` You must dismiss your maid , lady , '' said the man in a voice , the deep tone of which shocked her , `` what I have to tell is to you only . '' 
Emily , after some hesitation , desired Annette to withdraw to a little distance . 
-- Emily thanked him , assured him that he might repose on her discretion , and entreated him to dispatch . 
`` Most true , '' said Emily eagerly , `` and you can inform me . 
She rested her trembling arm upon the wall . 
-- Emily had no power to enforce her entreaties . 
exclaimed Emily , recovering her resolution . 
`` Here I am , ma'amselle , '' said Annette , who , having heard the eager tone , in which Emily pronounced these words , came running towards her . 
said Barnardine , sternly ; `` you are not wanted ; '' and , as Emily said nothing , Annette obeyed . 
-- `` I am prepared for the worst , my friend , '' said Emily , in a firm and solemn voice . 
`` Well , '' said Emily , `` proceed . '' 
exclaimed Emily -- -- `` what have you done ? '' 
cried Emily , chilled with horror , and scarcely able to support her fainting spirits . 
They were now both silent ; -- Emily had not courage to enquire further , and Barnardine seemed to shrink from telling more . 
said Emily , in a hollow and inward voice -- `` I am talking with a murderer ! '' 
Barnardine stood silent ; while Emily turned from him , and attempted to leave the place . 
`` If you are innocent , tell me quickly , '' said Emily , in faint accents , `` for I feel I shall not be able to hear you long . '' 
Emily had just strength enough to bid him stay , and then to call Annette , on whose arm she leaned , and they walked slowly up the rampart , till they heard steps behind them . 
`` She must not go , '' said Emily ; `` what you have to say , she may hear . '' 
`` You shall know no more , then ; '' and he was going , though slowly , when Emily 's anxiety , overcoming the resentment and fear , which the man 's behaviour had roused , she desired him to stay , and bade Annette retire . 
I was going to have told you , you might see her -- but now -- '' Emily , relieved from an unutterable load of anguish by this speech , had now only to ask Barnardine 's forgiveness , and to conjure , that he would let her visit her aunt . 
He complied with less reluctance , than she expected , and told her , that , if she would repair , on the following night , when the Signor was retired to rest , to the postern-gate of the castle , she should , perhaps , see Madame Montoni . 
Amid all the thankfulness , which Emily felt for this concession , she thought she observed a malicious triumph in his manner , when he pronounced the last words ; but , in the next moment , she dismissed the thought , and , having again thanked him , commended her aunt to his pity , and assured him , that she would herself reward him , and would be punctual to her appointment ; she bade him good night , and retired , unobserved , to her chamber . 
It was a considerable time , before the tumult of joy , which Barnardine 's unexpected intelligence had occasioned , allowed Emily to think with clearness , or to be conscious of the real dangers , that still surrounded Madame Montoni and herself . 
When this agitation subsided , she perceived , that her aunt was yet the prisoner of a man , to whose vengeance , or avarice , she might fall a sacrifice ; and , when she further considered the savage aspect of the person , who was appointed to guard Madame Montoni , her doom appeared to be already sealed , for the countenance of Barnardine seemed to bear the stamp of a murderer ; and , when she had looked upon it , she felt inclined to believe , that there was no deed , however black , which he might not be prevailed upon to execute . 
These reflections brought to her remembrance the tone of voice , in which he had promised to grant her request to see his prisoner ; and she mused upon it long in uneasiness and doubt . 
Sometimes , she even hesitated , whether to trust herself with him at the lonely hour he had appointed ; and once , and only once , it struck her , that Madame Montoni might be already murdered , and that this ruffian was appointed to decoy herself to some secret place , where her life also was to be sacrificed to the avarice of Montoni , who then would claim securely the contested estates in Languedoc . 
The consideration of the enormity of such guilt did , at length , relieve her from the belief of its probability , but not from all the doubts and fears , which a recollection of Barnardine 's manner had occasioned . 
From these subjects , her thoughts , at length , passed to others ; and , as the evening advanced , she remembered , with somewhat more than surprise , the music she had heard , on the preceding night , and now awaited its return , with more than curiosity . 
She distinguished , till a late hour , the distant carousals of Montoni and his companions -- the loud contest , the dissolute laugh and the choral song , that made the halls re-echo . 
At length , she heard the heavy gates of the castle shut for the night , and those sounds instantly sunk into a silence , which was disturbed only by the whispering steps of persons , passing through the galleries to their remote rooms . 
Emily now judging it to be about the time , when she had heard the music , on the preceding night , dismissed Annette , and gently opened the casement to watch for its return . 
Emily continued to listen , but no music came . 
said she , recollecting their entrancing melody . 
Emily paused to weep at this recollection . 
`` Perhaps , '' resumed she , `` perhaps , those strains I heard were sent to comfort , -- to encourage me ! 
She wept again in tenderness . 
Thus passed the hour in watchfulness and solemn thought ; but no sounds returned ; and , after remaining at the casement , till the light tint of dawn began to edge the mountain-tops and steal upon the night-shade , she concluded , that they would not return , and retired reluctantly to repose . 
Emily was somewhat surprised , on the following day , to find that Annette had heard of Madame Montoni 's confinement in the chamber over the portal , as well as of her purposed visit there , on the approaching night . 
He requested , that Emily would meet him , unattended , on the terrace , at a little after midnight , when he himself would lead her to the place he had promised ; a proposal , from which she immediately shrunk , for a thousand vague fears darted athwart her mind , such as had tormented her on the preceding night , and which she neither knew how to trust , or to dismiss . 
It frequently occurred to her , that Barnardine might have deceived her , concerning Madame Montoni , whose murderer , perhaps , he really was ; and that he had deceived her by order of Montoni , the more easily to draw her into some of the desperate designs of the latter . 
Emily remembered the words , which had informed her , that the contested estates in France would devolve to her , if Madame Montoni died , without consigning them to her husband , and the former obstinate perseverance of her aunt made it too probable , that she had , to the last , withheld them . 
At this instant , recollecting Barnardine 's manner , on the preceding night , she now believed , what she had then fancied , that it expressed malignant triumph . 
She shuddered at the recollection , which confirmed her fears , and determined not to meet him on the terrace . 
Soon after , she was inclined to consider these suspicions as the extravagant exaggerations of a timid and harassed mind , and could not believe Montoni liable to such preposterous depravity as that of destroying , from one motive , his wife and her niece . 
Emily 's spirits were somewhat calmed by this explanation , which seemed to be honestly given to Annette . 
Emily enquired who did , but Annette shewed , that she could keep a secret . 
During the remainder of the day , Emily 's mind was agitated with doubts and fears and contrary determinations , on the subject of meeting this Barnardine on the rampart , and submitting herself to his guidance , she scarcely knew whither . 
Pity for her aunt and anxiety for herself alternately swayed her determination , and night came , before she had decided upon her conduct . 
She heard the castle clock strike eleven -- twelve -- and yet her mind wavered . 
The time , however , was now come , when she could hesitate no longer : and then the interest she felt for her aunt overcame other considerations , and , bidding Annette follow her to the outer door of the vaulted gallery , and there await her return , she descended from her chamber . 
Emily , deceived by the long shadows of the pillars and by the catching lights between , often stopped , imagining she saw some person , moving in the distant obscurity of the perspective ; and , as she passed these pillars , she feared to turn her eyes toward them , almost expecting to see a figure start out from behind their broad shaft . 
She reached , however , the vaulted gallery , without interruption , but unclosed its outer door with a trembling hand , and , charging Annette not to quit it and to keep it a little open , that she might be heard if she called , she delivered to her the lamp , which she did not dare to take herself because of the men on watch , and , alone , stepped out upon the dark terrace . 
After chiding her for not coming sooner , and saying , that he had been waiting nearly half an hour , he desired Emily , who made no reply , to follow him to the door , through which he had entered the terrace . 
While he unlocked it , she looked back to that she had left , and , observing the rays of the lamp stream through a small opening , was certain , that Annette was still there . 
But her remote situation could little befriend Emily , after she had quitted the terrace ; and , when Barnardine unclosed the gate , the dismal aspect of the passage beyond , shewn by a torch burning on the pavement , made her shrink from following him alone , and she refused to go , unless Annette might accompany her . 
This , however , Barnardine absolutely refused to permit , mingling at the same time with his refusal such artful circumstances to heighten the pity and curiosity of Emily towards her aunt , that she , at length , consented to follow him alone to the portal . 
He then took up the torch , and led her along the passage , at the extremity of which he unlocked another door , whence they descended , a few steps , into a chapel , which , as Barnardine held up the torch to light her , Emily observed to be in ruins , and she immediately recollected a former conversation of Annette , concerning it , with very unpleasant emotions . 
Barnardine stumbled over the broken pavement , and his voice , as he uttered a sudden oath , was returned in hollow echoes , that made it more terrific . 
Emily 's heart sunk ; but she still followed him , and he turned out of what had been the principal aisle of the chapel . 
`` Down these steps , lady , '' said Barnardine , as he descended a flight , which appeared to lead into the vaults ; but Emily paused on the top , and demanded , in a tremulous tone , whither he was conducting her . 
said Emily . 
Emily still hesitated ; fearing not only to go on , but , since she had gone thus far , to irritate Barnardine by refusing to go further . 
said Emily , yet pausing . 
As he said this , he moved on with the light , and Emily , fearing to provoke him by further delay , reluctantly followed . 
From the steps , they proceeded through a passage , adjoining the vaults , the walls of which were dropping with unwholesome dews , and the vapours , that crept along the ground , made the torch burn so dimly , that Emily expected every moment to see it extinguished , and Barnardine could scarcely find his way . 
As he then rested against a pair of iron gates , that opened from the passage , Emily saw , by uncertain flashes of light , the vaults beyond , and , near her , heaps of earth , that seemed to surround an open grave . 
Such an object , in such a scene , would , at any time , have disturbed her ; but now she was shocked by an instantaneous presentiment , that this was the grave of her unfortunate aunt , and that the treacherous Barnardine was leading herself to destruction . 
The obscure and terrible place , to which he had conducted her , seemed to justify the thought ; it was a place suited for murder , a receptacle for the dead , where a deed of horror might be committed , and no vestige appear to proclaim it . 
Emily was so overwhelmed with terror , that , for a moment , she was unable to determine what conduct to pursue . 
She then considered , that it would be vain to attempt an escape from Barnardine , by flight , since the length and the intricacy of the way she had passed would soon enable him to overtake her , who was unacquainted with the turnings , and whose feebleness would not suffer her to run long with swiftness . 
She feared equally to irritate him by a disclosure of her suspicions , which a refusal to accompany him further certainly would do ; and , since she was already as much in his power as it was possible she could be , if she proceeded , she , at length , determined to suppress , as far as she could , the appearance of apprehension , and to follow silently whither he designed to lead her . 
Pale with horror and anxiety , she now waited till Barnardine had trimmed the torch , and , as her sight glanced again upon the grave , she could not forbear enquiring , for whom it was prepared . 
He took his eyes from the torch , and fixed them upon her face without speaking . 
She faintly repeated the question , but the man , shaking the torch , passed on ; and she followed , trembling , to a second flight of steps , having ascended which , a door delivered them into the first court of the castle . 
The view of the court , however , reanimated Emily , who , as she crossed silently towards the portal , began to hope , that her own fears , and not the treachery of Barnardine , had deceived her . 
She looked anxiously up at the first casement , that appeared above the lofty arch of the portcullis ; but it was dark , and she enquired , whether it belonged to the chamber , where Madame Montoni was confined . 
Emily spoke low , and Barnardine , perhaps , did not hear her question , for he returned no answer ; and they , soon after , entered the postern door of the gate-way , which brought them to the foot of a narrow staircase , that wound up one of the towers . 
repeated Emily faintly , as she began to ascend . 
`` That ceremony is unnecessary , '' replied Emily , `` my aunt will rejoice to see me . '' 
Emily , surprised and somewhat shocked , did not dare to oppose him further , but , as he was turning away with the torch , desired he would not leave her in darkness . 
He looked around , and , observing a tripod lamp , that stood on the stairs , lighted and gave it to Emily , who stepped forward into a large old chamber , and he closed the door . 
As she listened anxiously to his departing steps , she thought he descended , instead of ascending , the stairs ; but the gusts of wind , that whistled round the portal , would not allow her to hear distinctly any other sound . 
Still , however , she listened , and , perceiving no step in the room above , where he had affirmed Madame Montoni to be , her anxiety increased , though she considered , that the thickness of the floor in this strong building might prevent any sound reaching her from the upper chamber . 
The next moment , in a pause of the wind , she distinguished guished Barnardine 's step descending to the court , and then thought she heard his voice ; but , the rising gust again overcoming other sounds , Emily , to be certain on this point , moved softly to the door ; which , on attempting to open it , she discovered was fastened . 
All the horrid apprehensions , that had lately assailed her , returned at this instant with redoubled force , and no longer appeared like the exaggerations of a timid spirit , but seemed to have been sent to warn her of her fate . 
She now did not doubt , that Madame Montoni had been murdered , perhaps in this very chamber ; or that she herself was brought hither for the same purpose . 
The countenance , the manners and the recollected words of Barnardine , when he had spoken of her aunt , confirmed her worst fears . 
For some moments , she was incapable of considering of any means , by which she might attempt an escape . 
Still she listened , but heard footsteps neither on the stairs , or in the room above ; she thought , however , that she again distinguished Barnardine 's voice below , and went to a grated window , that opened upon the court , to enquire further . 
Here , she plainly heard his hoarse accents , mingling with the blast , that swept by , but they were lost again so quickly , that their meaning could not be interpreted ; and then the light of a torch , which seemed to issue from the portal below , flashed across the court , and the long shadow of a man , who was under the arch-way , appeared upon the pavement . 
Emily , from the hugeness of this sudden portrait , concluded it to be that of Barnardine ; but other deep tones , which passed in the wind , soon convinced her he was not alone , and that his companion was not a person very liable to pity . 
When her spirits had overcome the first shock of her situation , she held up the lamp to examine , if the chamber afforded a possibility of an escape . 
It was a spacious room , whose walls , wainscoted with rough oak , shewed no casement but the grated one , which Emily had left , and no other door than that , by which she had entered . 
The feeble rays of the lamp , however , did not allow her to see at once its full extent ; she perceived no furniture , except , indeed , an iron chair , fastened in the centre of the chamber , immediately over which , depending on a chain from the cieling , hung an iron ring . 
Having gazed upon these , for some time , with wonder and horror , she next observed iron bars below , made for the purpose of confining the feet , and on the arms of the chair were rings of the same metal . 
As she continued to survey them , she concluded , that they were instruments of torture , and it struck her , that some poor wretch had once been fastened in this chair , and had there been starved to death . 
She was chilled by the thought ; but , what was her agony , when , in the next moment , it occurred to her , that her aunt might have been one of these victims , and that she herself might be the next ! 
An acute pain seized her head , she was scarcely able to hold the lamp , and , looking round for support , was seating herself , unconsciously , in the iron chair itself ; but suddenly perceiving where she was , she started from it in horror , and sprung towards a remote end of the room . 
Here again she looked round for a seat to sustain her , and perceived only a dark curtain , which , descending from the cieling to the floor , was drawn along the whole side of the chamber . 
Ill as she was , the appearance of this curtain struck her , and she paused to gaze upon it , in wonder and apprehension . 
It seemed to conceal a recess of the chamber ; she wished , yet dreaded , to lift it , and to discover what it veiled : twice she was withheld by a recollection of the terrible spectacle her daring hand had formerly unveiled in an apartment of the castle , till , suddenly conjecturing , that it concealed the body of her murdered aunt , she seized it , in a fit of desperation , and drew it aside . 
Emily , bending over the body , gazed , for a moment , with an eager , frenzied eye ; but , in the next , the lamp dropped from her hand , and she fell senseless at the foot of the conch . 
When her senses returned , she found herself surrounded by men , among whom was Barnardine , who were lifting her from the floor , and then bore her along the chamber . 
She was sensible of what passed , but the extreme languor of her spirits did not permit her to speak , or move , or even to feel any distinct fear . 
They carried her down the stair-case , by which she had ascended ; when , having reached the arch-way , they stopped , and one of the men , taking the torch from Barnardine , opened a small door , that was cut in the great gate , and , as he stepped out upon the road , the light he bore shewed several men on horseback , in waiting . 
Whether it was the freshness of the air , that revived Emily , or that the objects she now saw roused the spirit of alarm , she suddenly spoke , and made an ineffectual effort to disengage herself from the grasp of the ruffians , who held her . 
Again he vociferated for the torch , and the men hurried Emily through the gate . 
At a short distance , under the shelter of the castle walls , she perceived the fellow , who had taken the light from the porter , holding it to a man , busily employed in altering the saddle of a horse , round which were several horsemen , looking on , whose harsh features received the full glare of the torch ; while the broken ground beneath them , the opposite walls , with the tufted shrubs , that overhung their summits , and an embattled watch-tower above , were reddened with the gleam , which , fading gradually away , left the remoter ramparts and the woods below to the obscurity of night . 
`` The saddle will be ready in a minute , '' replied the man who was buckling it , at whom Barnardine now swore again , for his negligence , and Emily , calling feebly for help , was hurried towards the horses , while the ruffians disputed on which to place her , the one designed for her not being ready . 
At this moment a cluster of lights issued from the great gates , and she immediately heard the shrill voice of Annette above those of several other persons , who advanced . 
A short contest ensued between the parties , in which that of Montoni , however , were presently victors , and the horsemen , perceiving that numbers were against them , and being , perhaps , not very warmly interested in the affair they had undertaken , galloped off , while Barnardine had run far enough to be lost in the darkness , and Emily was led back into the castle . 
As she re-passed the courts , the remembrance of what she had seen in the portal-chamber came , with all its horror , to her mind ; and when , soon after , she heard the gate close , that shut her once more within the castle walls , she shuddered for herself , and , almost forgetting the danger she had escaped , could scarcely think , that any thing less precious than liberty and peace was to be found beyond them . 
Montoni ordered Emily to await him in the cedar parlour , whither he soon followed , and then sternly questioned her on this mysterious affair . 
Though she now viewed him with horror , as the murderer of her aunt , and scarcely knew what she said in reply to his impatient enquiries , her answers and her manner convinced him , that she had not taken a voluntary part in the late scheme , and he dismissed her upon the appearance of his servants , whom he had ordered to attend , that he might enquire further into the affair , and discover those , who had been accomplices in it . 
Emily had been some time in her apartment , before the tumult of her mind allowed her to remember several of the passed circumstances . 
Then , again , the dead form , which the curtain in the portal-chamber had disclosed , came to her fancy , and she uttered a groan , which terrified Annette the more , as Emily forbore to satisfy her curiosity , on the subject of it , for she feared to trust her with so fatal a secret , lest her indiscretion should call down the immediate vengeance of Montoni on herself . 
Thus compelled to bear within her own mind the whole horror of the secret , that oppressed it , her reason seemed to totter under the intolerable weight . 
She often fixed a wild and vacant look on Annette , and , when she spoke , either did not hear her , or answered from the purpose . 
Long fits of abstraction succeeded ; Annette spoke repeatedly , but her voice seemed not to make any impression on the sense of the long agitated Emily , who sat fixed and silent , except that , now and then , she heaved a heavy sigh , but without tears . 
Terrified at her condition , Annette , at length , left the room , to inform Montoni of it , who had just dismissed his servants , without having made any discoveries on the subject of his enquiry . 
The wild description , which this girl now gave of Emily , induced him to follow her immediately to the chamber . 
At the sound of his voice , Emily turned her eyes , and a gleam of recollection seemed to shoot athwart her mind , for she immediately rose from her seat , and moved slowly to a remote part of the room . 
He spoke to her in accents somewhat softened from their usual harshness , but she regarded him with a kind of half curious , half terrified look , and answered only `` yes , '' to whatever he said . 
Her mind still seemed to retain no other impression , than that of fear . 
Of this disorder Annette could give no explanation , and Montoni , having attempted , for some time , to persuade Emily to talk , retired , after ordering Annette to remain with her , during the night , and to inform him , in the morning , of her condition . 
When he was gone , Emily again came forward , and asked who it was , that had been there to disturb her . 
Emily repeated the name after her , several times ' as if she did not recollect it , and then suddenly groaned , and relapsed into abstraction . 
With some difficulty , Annette led her to the bed , which Emily examined with an eager , frenzied eye , before she lay down , and then , pointing , turned with shuddering emotion , to Annette , who , now more terrified , went towards the door , that she might bring one of the female servants to pass the night with them ; but Emily , observing her going , called her by name , and then in the naturally soft and plaintive tone of her voice , begged , that she , too , would not forsake her . 
-- `` For since my father died , '' added she , sighing , `` every body forsakes me . '' 
rejoined Emily , and her tears began to flow . 
She now wept silently and long , after which , becoming quite calm , she at length sunk to sleep , Annette having had discretion enough not to interrupt her tears . 
This girl , as affectionate as she was simple , lost in these moments all her former fears of remaining in the chamber , and watched alone by Emily , during the whole night . 
Emily 's mind was refreshed by sleep . 
On waking in the morning , she looked with surprise on Annette , who sat sleeping in a chair beside the bed , and then endeavoured to recollect herself ; but the circumstances of the preceding night were swept from her memory , which seemed to retain no trace of what had passed , and she was still gazing with surprise on Annette , when the latter awoke . 
Certainly , '' replied Emily , `` you are Annette ; but why are you sitting by me thus ? '' 
said Emily , still trying to recollect the past . 
She fixed a terrified look upon Annette , who , intending to quiet her , said `` Yes , ma'amselle , it was more than a dream , but it is all over now . '' 
said Emily in an inward voice , and shuddering instantaneously . 
Annette screamed ; for , being ignorant of the circumstance to which Emily referred , she attributed her manner to a disordered fancy ; but , when she had explained to what her own speech alluded , Emily , recollecting the attempt that had been made to carry her off , asked if the contriver of it had been discovered . 
Annette replied , that he had not , though he might easily be guessed at ; and then told Emily she might thank her for her deliverance , who , endeavouring to command the emotion , which the remembrance of her aunt had occasioned , appeared calmly to listen to Annette , though , in truth , she heard scarcely a word that was said . 
Annette ceased to speak , but Emily still appeared to listen . 
At length she said , suddenly , `` I think I will go to him myself ; -- where is he ? '' 
`` Signor Montoni , '' replied Emily . 
`` I would speak with him ; '' and Annette , now remembering the order he had given , on the preceding night , respecting her young lady , rose , and said she would seek him herself . 
This honest girl 's suspicions of Count Morano were perfectly just ; Emily , too , when she thought on the scheme , had attributed it to him ; and Montoni , who had not a doubt on this subject , also , began to believe , that it was by the direction of Morano , that poison had formerly been mingled with his wine . 
The professions of repentance , which Morano had made to Emily , under the anguish of his wound , were sincere at the moment he offered them ; but he had mistaken the subject of his sorrow , for , while he thought he was condemning the cruelty of his late design , he was lamenting only the state of suffering , to which it had reduced him . 
The porter of the castle , who had served him , on a former occasion , willingly accepted a second bribe ; and , having concerted the means of drawing Emily to the gates , Morano publicly left the hamlet , whither he had been carried after the affray , and withdrew with his people to another at several miles distance . 
From thence , on a night agreed upon by Barnardine , who had discovered from the thoughtless prattle of Annette , the most probable means of decoying Emily , the Count sent back his servants to the castle , while he awaited her arrival at the hamlet , with an intention of carrying her immediately to Venice . 
Annette having made her report to Montoni of Emily 's health and of her request to see him , he replied , that she might attend him in the cedar room , in about an hour . 
It was on the subject , that pressed so heavily on her mind , that Emily wished to speak to him , yet she did not distinctly know what good purpose this could answer , and sometimes she even recoiled in horror from the expectation of his presence . 
She wished , also , to petition , though she scarcely dared to believe the request would be granted , that he would permit her , since her aunt was no more , to return to her native country . 
As the moment of interview approached , her agitation increased so much , that she almost resolved to excuse herself under what could scarcely be called a pretence of illness ; and , when she considered what could be said , either concerning herself , or the fate of her aunt , she was equally hopeless as to the event of her entreaty , and terrified as to its effect upon the vengeful spirit of Montoni . 
Yet , to pretend ignorance of her death , appeared , in some degree , to be sharing its criminality , and , indeed , this event was the only ground , on which Emily could rest her petition for leaving Udolpho . 
While her thoughts thus wavered , a message was brought , importing , that Montoni could not see her , till the next day ; and her spirits were then relieved , for a moment , from an almost intolerable weight of apprehension . 
Annette might have continued thus talking for hours for any interruption she would have received from Emily , who was silent ; inattentive , absorbed in thought , and passed the whole of this day in a kind of solemn tranquillity , such as is often the result of faculties overstrained by suffering . 
When night returned , Emily recollected the mysterious strains of music , that she had lately heard , in which she still felt some degree of interest , and of which she hoped to hear again the soothing sweetness . 
The influence of superstition now gained on the weakness of her long-harassed mind ; she looked , with enthusiastic expectation , to the guardian spirit of her father , and , having dismissed Annette for the night , determined to watch alone for their return . 
Emily then seated herself at the casement , where she was soon recalled from the reverie , into which she sunk , by very unusual sounds , not of music , but like the low mourning of some person in distress . 
As she listened , her heart faltered in terror , and she became convinced , that the former sound was more than imaginary . 
Still , at intervals , she heard a kind of feeble lamentation , and sought to discover whence it came . 
There were several rooms underneath , adjoining the rampart , which had been long shut up , and , as the sound probably rose from one of these , she leaned from the casement to observe , whether any light was visible there . 
The chambers , as far as she could perceive , were quite dark , but , at a little distance , on the rampart below , she thought she saw something moving . 
The faint twilight , which the stars shed , did not enable her to distinguish what it was ; but she judged it to be a sentinel , on watch , and she removed her light to a remote part of the chamber , that she might escape notice , during her further observation . 
Presently , it advanced along the rampart , towards her window , and she then distinguished something like a human form , but the silence , with which it moved , convinced her it was no sentinel . 
As it drew near , she hesitated whether to retire ; a thrilling curiosity inclined her to stay , but a dread of she scarcely knew what warned her to withdraw . 
While she paused , the figure came opposite to her casement , and was stationary . 
Every thing remained quiet ; she had not heard even a foot-fall ; and the solemnity of this silence , with the mysterious form she saw , subdued her spirits , so that she was moving from the casement , when , on a sudden , she observed the figure start away , and glide down the rampart , after which it was soon lost in the obscurity of night . 
Emily continued to gaze , for some time , on the way it had passed , and then retired within her chamber , musing on this strange circumstance , and scarcely doubting , that she had witnessed a supernatural appearance . 
When her spirits recovered composure , she looked round for some other explanation . 
Remembering what she had heard of the daring enterprises of Montoni , it occurred to her , that she had just seen some unhappy person , who , having been plundered by his banditti , was brought hither a captive ; and that the music she had formerly heard , came from him . 
Yet , if they had plundered him , it still appeared improbable , that they should have brought him to the castle , and it was also more consistent with the manners of banditti to murder those they rob , than to make them prisoners . 
But what , more than any other circumstance , contradicted the supposition , that it was a prisoner , was that it wandered on the terrace , without a guard : a consideration , which made her dismiss immediately her first surmise . 
Afterwards , she was inclined to believe , that Count Morano had obtained admittance into the castle ; but she soon recollected the difficulties and dangers , that must have opposed such an enterprise , and that , if he had so far succeeded , to come alone and in silence to her casement at midnight was not the conduct he would have adopted , particularly since the private stair-case , communicating with her apartment , was known to him ; neither would he have uttered the dismal sounds she had heard . 
Thus , enquiry only perplexed her . 
Who , or what , it could be that haunted this Lonely hour , complaining in such doleful accents and in such sweet music -LRB- for she was still inclined to believe , that the former strains and the late appearance were connected , -RRB- she had no means of ascertaining ; and imagination again assumed her empire , and roused the mysteries of superstition . 
She determined , however , to watch on the following night , when her doubts might , perhaps , be cleared up ; and she almost resolved to address the figure , if it should appear again . 
On the following day , Montoni sent a second excuse to Emily , who was surprised at the circumstance . 
said she to herself . 
She now almost resolved to throw herself in his way , but terror checked the intention , and this day passed , as the preceding one , with Emily , except that a degree of awful expectation , concerning the approaching night , now somewhat disturbed the dreadful calmness that had pervaded her mind . 
Towards evening , the second part of the band , which had made the first excursion among the mountains , returned to the castle , where , as they entered the courts , Emily , in her remote chamber , heard their loud shouts and strains of exultation , like the orgies of furies over some horrid sacrifice . 
She even feared they were about to commit some barbarous deed ; a conjecture from which , however , Annette soon relieved her , by telling , that the people were only exulting over the plunder they had brought with them . 
Emily 's supposition , however natural , was in part erroneous , for she was a stranger to the state of this country and to the circumstances , under which its frequent wars were partly conducted . 
On the return of night , Emily resumed her station at the casement . 
There was now a moon ; and , as it rose over the tufted woods , its yellow light served to shew the lonely terrace and the surrounding objects , more distinctly , than the twilight of the stars had done , and promised Emily to assist her observations , should the mysterious form return . 
On this subject , she again wavered in conjecture , and hesitated whether to speak to the figure , to which a strong and almost irresistible interest urged her ; but terror , at intervals , made her reluctant to do so . 
`` If this is a person who has designs upon the castle , '' said she , `` my curiosity may prove fatal to me ; yet the mysterious music , and the lamentations I heard , must surely have proceeded from him : if so , he can not be an enemy . '' 
She then thought of her unfortunate aunt , and , shuddering with grief and horror , the suggestions of imagination seized her mind with all the force of truth , and she believed , that the form She had seen was supernatural . 
She trembled , breathed with difficulty , an icy coldness touched her cheeks , and her fears for a while overcame her judgment . 
Her resolution now forsook her , and she determined , if the figure should appear , not to speak to it . 
Thus the time passed , as she sat at her casement , awed by expectation , and by the gloom and stillness of midnight ; for she saw obscurely in the moon-light only the mountains and woods , a cluster of towers , that formed the west angle of the castle , and the terrace below ; and heard no sound , except , now and then , the lonely watch-word , passed by the centinels on duty , and afterwards the steps of the men who came to relieve guard , and whom she knew at a distance on the rampart by their pikes , that glittered in the moonbeam , and then , by the few short words , in which they hailed their fellows of the night . 
Emily retired within her chamber , while they passed the casement . 
When she returned to it , all was again quiet . 
It was now very late , she was wearied with watching , and began to doubt the reality of what she had seen on the preceding night ; but she still lingered at the window , for her mind was too perturbed to admit of sleep . 
The moon shone with a clear lustre , that afforded her a complete view of the terrace ; but she saw only a solitary centinel , pacing at one end of it ; and , at length , tired with expectation , she withdrew to seek rest . 
Such , however , was the impression , left on her mind by the music , and the complaining she had formerly heard , as well as by the figure , which she fancied she had seen , that she determined to repeat the watch , on the following night . 
Montoni , on the next day , took no notice of Emily 's appointed visit , but she , more anxious than before to see him , sent Annette to enquire , at what hour he would admit her . 
He mentioned eleven o'clock , and Emily was punctual to the moment ; at which she called up all her fortitude to support the shock of his presence and the dreadful recollections it enforced . 
He was with several of his officers , in the cedar-room ; on observing whom she paused ; and her agitation increased , while he continued to converse with them , apparently not observing her , till some of his officers , turning round , saw Emily , and uttered an exclamation . 
She was hastily retiring , when Montoni 's voice arrested her , and , in a faultering accent , she said , -- `` I would peak with you , Signor Montoni , if you are at leisure . '' 
`` These are my friends , '' he replied , `` whatever you would say , they may hear . '' 
Emily , without replying , turned from the rude gaze of the chevaliers , and Montoni then followed her to the hall , whence he led her to a small room , of which he shut the door with violence . 
As she looked on his dark countenance , she again thought she saw the murderer of her aunt ; and her mind was so convulsed with horror , that she had not power to recal thought enough to explain the purport of her visit ; and to trust herself with the mention of Madame Montoni was more than she dared . 
Montoni at length impatiently enquired what she had to say ? 
`` I have no time for trifling , '' he added , `` my moments are important . '' 
Emily then told him , that she wished to return to France , and came to beg , that he would permit her to do so . 
-- But when he looked surprised , and enquired for the motive of the request , she hesitated , became paler than before , trembled , and had nearly sunk at his feet . 
He observed her emotion , with apparent indifference , and interrupted the silence by telling her , he must be gone . 
Emily , however , recalled her spirits sufficiently to enable her to repeat her request . 
And , when Montoni absolutely refused it , her slumbering mind was roused . 
`` I can no longer remain here with propriety , sir , '' said she , `` and I may be allowed to ask , by what right you detain me . '' 
`` It is my will that you remain here , '' said Montoni , laying his hand on the door to go ; `` let that suffice you . '' 
Emily , considering that she had no appeal from this will , forbore to dispute his right , and made a feeble effort to persuade him to be just . 
`` While my aunt lived , sir , '' said she , in a tremulous voice , `` my residence here was not improper ; but now , that she is no more , I may surely be permitted to depart . 
Emily hesitated , for nobody had told her so , and she did not dare to avow the having seen that spectacle in the portal-chamber , which had compelled her to the belief . 
he repeated , more sternly . 
I know it too well , '' replied Emily : `` spare me on this terrible subject ! '' 
He now left the room , without awaiting her reply , and returned to the cedar chamber , where such of the chevaliers as had not before seen Emily , began to rally him , on the discovery they had made ; but Montoni did not appear disposed to bear this mirth , and they changed the subject . 
Emily , meanwhile , stunned by the last words of Montoni , forgot , for the moment , his declaration , that she should continue in the castle , while she thought of her unfortunate aunt , who , he had said , was laid in the east turret . 
Annette came , and Emily mentioned her purpose , from which the former endeavoured to dissuade her , though without effect , and Annette was , with much difficulty , prevailed upon to accompany her to the turret ; but no consideration could make her promise to enter the chamber of death . 
They now left the corridor , and , having reached the foot of the stair-case , which Emily had formerly ascended , Annette declared she would go no further , and Emily proceeded alone . 
When she saw the track of blood , which she had before observed , her spirits fainted , and , being compelled to rest on the stairs , she almost determined to proceed no further . 
The pause of a few moments restored her resolution , and she went on . 
As she drew near the landing-place , upon which the upper chamber opened , she remembered , that the door was formerly fastened , and apprehended , that it might still be so . 
In this expectation , however , she was mistaken ; for the door opened at once , into a dusky and silent chamber , round which she fearfully looked , and then slowly advanced , when a hollow voice spoke . 
Emily , who was unable to speak , or to move from the spot , uttered no sound of terror . 
The voice spoke again ; and , then , thinking that it resembled that of Madame Montoni , Emily 's spirits were instantly roused ; she rushed towards a bed , that stood in a remote part of the room , and drew aside the curtains Within , appeared a pale and emaciated face . 
She started back , then again advanced , shuddered as she took up the skeleton hand , that lay stretched upon the quilt ; then let it drop , and then viewed the face with a long , unsettled gaze . 
`` Do you indeed live , '' said Emily , at length , `` or is this but a terrible apparition ? '' 
She received no answer , and again she snatched up the hand . 
`` This is substance , '' she exclaimed , `` but it is cold -- cold as marble ! '' 
She let it fall . 
said Emily , in a voice of desperation , `` that I may not lose my senses -- say you know me ! '' 
Emily clasped the hand she held , more eagerly , and groaned . 
Then Emily endeavoured to soothe her , and enquired what had reduced her to this present deplorable state . 
Montoni , when he removed her to the turret under the improbable suspicion of having attempted his life , had ordered the men employed on the occasion , to observe a strict secrecy concerning her . 
He meant to debar her from the comfort of Emily 's visits , and to secure an opportunity of privately dispatching her , should any new circumstances occur to confirm the present suggestions of his suspecting mind . 
His consciousness of the hatred he deserved it was natural enough should at first lead him to attribute to her the attempt that had been made upon his life ; and , though there was no other reason to believe that she was concerned in that atrocious design , his suspicions remained ; he continued to confine her in the turret , under a strict guard ; and , without pity or remorse , had suffered her to lie , forlorn and neglected , under a raging fever , till it had reduced to the present state . 
The track of blood , which Emily had seen on the stairs , had flowed from the unbound wound of one of the men employed to carry Madame Montoni , and which he had received in the late affray . 
At night these men , having contented themselves with securing the door of their prisoner 's room , had retired from guard ; and then it was , that Emily , at the time of her first enquiry , had found the turret so silent and deserted . 
When she had attempted to open the door of the chamber , her aunt was sleeping , and this occasioned the silence , which had contributed to delude her into a belief , that she was no more ; yet had her terror permitted her to persevere longer in the call , she would probably have awakened Madame Montoni , and have been spared much suffering . 
The spectacle in the portal chamber , which afterwards confirmed Emily 's horrible suspicion , was the corpse of a man , who had fallen in the affray , and the same which had been borne into the servants ' hall , where she took refuge from the tumult . 
This man had lingered under his wounds for some days ; and , soon after his death , his body had been removed on the couch , on which he died , for interment in the vault beneath the chapel , through which Emily and Barnardine had passed to the chamber . 
Emily , after asking Madame Montoni a thousand questions concerning herself , left her , and sought Montoni ; for the more solemn interest she felt for her aunt , made her now regardless of the resentment her remonstrances might draw upon herself , and of the improbability of his granting what she meant to entreat . 
`` Madame Montoni is now dying , sir , '' said Emily , as soon as she saw him -- `` Your resentment , surely will not pursue her to the last moment ! 
`` The service , at least , of saving you , sir , from a few of those pangs of conscience you must suffer , when you shall be in the same situation , '' said Emily , with imprudent indignation , of which Montoni soon made her sensible , by commanding her to quit his presence . 
Then , forgetting her resentment , and impressed only by compassion for the piteous state of her aunt , dying without succour , she submitted to humble herself to Montoni , and to adopt every persuasive means , that might reduce him to relcnt towards his wife . 
For a considerable time he was proof against all she said , and all she looked ; but at length the divinity of pity , beaming in Emily 's eyes , seemed to touch his heart . 
He turned away , ashamed of his better feelings , half sullen and half relenting ; but finally consented , that his wife should be removed to her own apartment , and that Emily should attend her . 
Dreading equally , that this relief might arrive too late , and that Montoni might retract his concession , Emily scarcely staid to thank him for it , but , assisted by Annette , she quickly prepared Madame Montoni 's bed , and they carried her a cordial , that might enable her feeble frame to sustain the fatigue of a removal . 
Madame was scarcely arrived in her own apartment , when an order was given by her husband , that she should remain in the turret ; but Emily , thankful that she had made such dispatch , hastened to inform him of it , as well as that a second removal would instantly prove fatal , and he suffered his wife to continue where she was . 
During this day , Emily never left Madame Montoni , except to prepare such little nourishing things as she judged necessary to sustain her , and which Madame Montoni received with quiet acquiescence , though she seemed sensible that they could not save her from approaching dissolution , and scarcely appeared to wish for life . 
Emily meanwhile watched over her with the most tender solicitude , no longer seeing her imperious aunt in the poor object before her , but the sister of her late beloved father , in a situation that called for all her compassion and kindness . 
When night came , she determined to sit up with her aunt , but this the latter positively forbade , commanding her to retire to rest , and Annette alone to remain in her chamber . 
Rest was , indeed , necessary to Emily , whose spirits and frame were equally wearied by the occurrences and exertions of the day ; but she would not leave Madame Montoni , till after the turn of midnight , a period then thought so critical by the physicians . 
Soon after twelve , having enjoined Annette to be wakeful , and to call her , should any change appear for the worse , Emily sorrowfully bade Madame Montoni good night , and withdrew to her chamber . 
Her spirits were more than usually depressed by the piteous condition of her aunt , whose recovery she scarcely dared to expect . 
To her own misfortunes she saw no period , inclosed as she was , in a remote castle , beyond the reach of any friends , had she possessed such , and beyond the pity even of strangers ; while she knew herself to be in the power of a man capable of any action , which his interest , or his ambition , might suggest . 
Occupied by melancholy reflections and by anticipations as sad , she did not retire immediately to rest , but leaned thoughtfully on her open casement . 
The scene before her of woods and mountains , reposing in the moon-light , formed a regretted contrast with the state of her mind ; but the lonely murmur of these woods , and the view of this sleeping landscape , gradually soothed her emotions and softened her to tears . 
She continued to weep , for some time , lost to every thing , but to a gentle sense of her misfortunes . 
When she , at length , took the handkerchief from her eyes , she perceived , before her , on the terrace below , the figure she had formerly observed , which stood fixed and silent , immediately opposite to her casement . 
On perceiving it , she started back , and terror for some time overcame curiosity ; -- at length , she returned to the casement , and still the figure was before it , which she now compelled herself to observe , but was utterly unable to speak , as she had formerly intended . 
The moon shone with a clear light , and it was , perhaps , the agitation of her mind , that prevented her distinguishing , with any degree of accuracy , the form before her . 
It was still stationary , and she began to doubt , whether it was really animated . 
Her scattered thoughts were now so far returned as to remind her , that her light exposed her to dangerous observation , and she was stepping back to remove it , when she perceived the figure move , and then wave what seemed to be its arm , as if to beckon her ; and , while she gazed , fixed in fear , it repeated the action . 
She now attempted to speak , but the words died on her lips , and she went from the casement to remove her light ; as she was doing which , she heard , from without , a faint groan . 
Listening , but not daring to return , she presently heard it repeated . 
said she . 
Again she listened , but the sound came no more ; and , after a long interval of silence , she recovered courage enough to go to the casement , when she again saw the same appearance ! 
said she . 
`` Who is it , '' cried Emily in a faint voice , `` that wanders at this late hour ? '' 
She watched it , for a long while , passing swiftly in the moon-light , but heard no footstep , till a sentinel from the other extremity of the rampart walked slowly along . 
The man stopped under her window , and , looking up , called her by name . 
She was retiring precipitately , but , a second summons inducing her to reply , the soldier then respectfully asked if she had seen any thing pass . 
On her answering , that she had ; he said no more , but walked away down the terrace , Emily following him with her eyes , till he was lost in the distance . 
But , as he was on guard , she knew he could not go beyond the rampart , and , therefore , resolved to await his return . 
As the soldiers moved hastily under the casement , she called to enquire what had happened , but they passed without regarding her . 
Emily 's thoughts returning to the figure she had seen , `` It can not be a person , who has designs upon the castle , '' said she ; `` such an one would conduct himself very differently . 
If she had been subject to vanity , she might have supposed this figure to be some inhabitant of the castle , who wandered under her casement in the hope of seeing her , and of being allowed to declare his admiration ; but this opinion never occurred to Emily , and , if it had ; she would have dismissed it as improbable , on considering , that , when the opportunity of speaking had occurred , it had been suffered to pass in silence ; and that , even at the moment in which she had spoken , the form had abruptly quitted the place . 
While she mused , two sentinels walked up the rampart in earnest conversation , of which she caught a few words , and learned from these , that one of their comrades had fallen down senseless . 
Soon after , three other soldiers appeared slowly advancing from the bottom of the terrace , but she heard only a low voice , that came at intervals . 
As they drew near , she perceived this to be the voice , that came at intervals . 
As they drew near , she perceived this to be the voice of him , who walked in the middle , apparently supported by his comrades ; and she again called to them , enquiring what had happened . 
At the sound of her voice , they stopped , and looked up , while she repeated her question , and was told , that Roberto , their fellow of the watch , had been seized with a fit , and that his cry , as he fell , had caused a salse alarm . 
said Emily . 
enquired Emily , trembling . 
said Emily , endeavouring to conceal her own . 
enquired Emily . 
said Emily half smiling , who , though she thought the conversation somewhat too much , felt an interest , which would not permit her to conclude it . 
said Emily to Roberto . 
said Emily , as she closed her casement and retired to reflect upon the strange circumstance that had just occurred , connecting which with what had happened on former nights , she endeavoured to derive from the whole something more positive , than conjecture . 
But her imagination was inflamed , while her judgment was not enlightened , and the terrors of superstition again pervaded her mind . 
In the morning , Emily found Madame Montoni nearly in the same condition , as on the preceding night ; she had slept little , and that little had not refreshed her ; she smiled on her niece , and seemed cheered by her presence , but spoke only a few words , and never named Montoni , who , however , soon after , entered the room . 
His wife , when she understood that he was there , appeared much agitated , but was entirely silent , till Emily rose from a chair at the bed-side , when she begged , in a feeble voice , that she would not leave her . 
The visit of Montoni was not to sooth his wife , whom he knew to be dying , or to console , or to ask her forgiveness , but to make a last effort to procure that signature , which would transfer her estates in Languedoc , after her death , to him rather than to Emily . 
This was a scene , that exhibited , on his part , his usual inhumanity , and , on that of Madame Montoni , a persevering spirit , contending with a feeble frame ; while Emily repeatedly declared to him her willingness to resign all claim to those estates , rather than that the last hours of her aunt should be disturbed by contention . 
Montoni , however , did not leave the room , till his wife , exhausted by the obstinate dispute , had fainted , and she lay so long insensible , that Emily began to fear that the spark of life was extinguished . 
At length , she revived , and , looking feebly up at her niece , whose tears were falling over her , made an effort to speak , but her words were unintelligible , and Emily again apprehended she was dying . 
Afterwards , however , she recovered her speech , and , being somewhat restored by a cordial , conversed for a considerable time , on the subject of her estates in France , with clearness and precision . 
She directed her niece where to find some papers relative to them , which she had hitherto concealed from the search of Montoni , and earnestly charged her never to suffer these papers to escape her . 
Soon after this conversation , Madame Montoni sunk into a dose , and continued slumbering , till evening , when she seemed better than she had been since her removal from the turret . 
Emily never left her , for a moment , till long after midnight , and even then would not have quitted the room , had not her aunt entreated , that she would retire to rest . 
She then obeyed , the more willingly , because her patient appeared somewhat recruited by sleep ; and , giving Annette the same injunction , as on the preceding night , she withdrew to her own apartment . 
Emily heard the passing steps of the sentinels , on the rampart , as they changed guard ; and , when all was again silent , she took her station at the casement , leaving her lamp in a remote part of the chamber , that she might escape notice from without . 
It was in one of these moments of obscurity , that she observed a small and lambent flame , moving at some distance on the terrace . 
While she gazed , it disappeared , and , the moon again emerging from the lurid and heavy thunder clouds , she turned her attention to the heavens , where the vivid lightnings darted from cloud to cloud , and flashed silently on the woods below . 
She loved to catch , in the momentary gleam , the gloomy landscape . 
Emily , looking again upon the rampart , perceived the flame she had seen before ; it moved onward ; and , soon after , she thought she heard a footstep . 
The light appeared and disappeared frequently , while , as she watched , it glided under her casements , and , at the same instant , she was certain , that a footstep passed , but the darkness did not permit her to distinguish any object except the flame . 
It moved away , and then , by a gleam of lighting , she perceived some person on the terrace . 
Emily wished to speak , to end her doubts , whether this figure were human or supernatural ; but her courage failed as often as she attempted utterance , till the light moved again under the casement , and she faintly demanded , who passed . 
said Emily , somewhat encouraged , `` who are you , and what is that light you carry ? '' 
said Emily , `` See how it darts upwards , -- and now it vanishes ! '' 
said Emily . 
said Emily . 
rejoined Emily . 
Whether Emily was alarmed by this omen , or not , she certainly was relieved from much terror by discovering this man to be only a soldier on duty , and it immediately occurred to her , that it might be he , who had occasioned so much alarm on the preceding night . 
As far as she could judge by the faint moon-light , that had assisted her observation , the figure she had seen did not resemble this man either in shape or size ; besides , she was certain it had carried no arms . 
She now enquired of the sentinel , whether he had seen any person besides his fellow watch , walking on the terrace , about midnight ; and then briefly related what she had herself observed . 
`` I commend your prudence , '' said Emily , `` Good night , and accept this from me , '' she added , throwing him a small piece of coin , and then closing the casement to put an end to the discourse . 
When he was gone , she opened it again , listened with a gloomy pleasure to the distant thunder , that began to murmur among the mountains , and watched the arrowy lightnings , which broke over the remoter scene . 
Emily remained at her casement , till the vivid lightning , that now , every instant , revealed the wide horizon and the landscape below , made it no longer safe to do so , and she went to her couch ; but , unable to compose her mind to sleep , still listened in silent awe to the tremendous sounds , that seemed to shake the castle to its foundation . 
She had continued thus for a considerable time , when , amidst the uproar of the storm , she thought she heard a voice , and , raising herself to listen , saw the chamber door open , and Annette enter with a countenance of wild affright . 
Emily started up , and ran to Madame Montoni 's room . 
When she entered , her aunt appeared to have fainted , for she was quite still , and insensible ; and Emily with a strength of mind , that refused to yield to grief , while any duty required her activity , applied every means that seemed likely to restore her . 
But the last struggle was over -- she was gone for ever . 
When Emily perceived , that all her efforts were ineffectual , she interrogated the terrified Annette , and learned , that Madame Montoni had fallen into a doze , soon after Emily 's departure , in which she had continued , until a few minutes before her death . 
Emily , at this recital , shed tears . 
She had no doubt but that the violent change in the air , which the tempest produced , had effected this fatal one , on the exhausted frame of Madame Montoni . 
After some deliberation , she determined that Montoni should not be informed of this event till the morning , for she considered , that he might , perhaps , utter some inhuman expressions , such as in the present temper of her spirits she could not bear . 
Emily anxiously avoided his presence , and watched , during two days and two nights , with little intermission , by the corpse of her late aunt . 
Her mind deeply impressed with the unhappy fate of this object , she forgot all her faults , her unjust and imperious conduct to herself ; and , remembering only her sufferings , thought of her only with tender compassion . 
Sometimes , however , she could not avoid musing upon the strange infatuation that had proved so fatal to her aunt , and had involved herself in a labyrinth of misfortune , from which she saw no means of escaping , -- the marriage with Montoni . 
But , when she considered this circumstance , it was `` more in sorrow than in anger , '' -- more for the purpose of indulging lamentation , than reproach . 
In her pious cares she was not disturbed by Montoni , who not only avoided the chamber , where the remains of his wife were laid , but that part of the castle adjoining to it , as if he had apprehended a contagion in death . 
He seemed to have given no orders respecting the funeral , and Emily began to fear he meant to offer a new insult to the memory of Madame Montoni ; but from this apprehension she was relieved , when , on the evening of the second day , Annette informed her , that the interment was to take place that night . 
Emily , shuddering with emotions of horror and grief , assisted by Annette , prepared the corpse for interment ; and , having wrapt it in cerements , and covered it with a winding-sheet , they watched beside it , till past midnight , when they heard the approaching footsteps of the men , who were to lay it in its earthy bed . 
It was with difficulty , that Emily overcame her emotion , when , the door of the chamber being thrown open , their gloomy countenances were seen by the glare of the torch they carried , and two of them , without speaking , lifted the body on their shoulders , while the third preceding them with the light , descended through the castle towards the grave , which was in the lower vault of the chapel within the castle walls . 
They had to cross two courts , towards the east wing of the castle , which , adjoining the chapel , was , like it , in ruins : but the silence and gloom of these courts had now little power over Emily 's mind , occupied as it was , with more mournful ideas ; and she scarcely heard the low and dismal hooting of the night-birds , that roosted among the ivyed battlements of the ruin , or perceived the still flittings of the bat , which frequently crossed her way . 
But , when , having entered the chapel , and passed between the mouldering pillars of the aisles , the bearers stopped at a flight of steps , that led down to a low arched door , and , their comrade having descended to unlock it , she saw imperfectly the gloomy abyss beyond ; -- saw the corpse of her aunt carried down these steps , and the russian-like figure , that stood with a torch at the bottom to receive it -- all her fortitude was lost in emotions of inexpressible grief and terror . 
She turned to lean upon Annette , who was cold and trembling like herself , and she lingered so long on the summit of the flight , that the gleam of the torch began to die away on the pillars of the chapel , and the men were almost beyond her view . 
The fierce features and wild dress of the condottieri , bending with their torches over the grave , into which the corpse was descending , were contrasted by the venerable figure of the monk , wrapt in long black garments , his cowl thrown back from his pale face , on which the light gleaming strongly shewed the lines of affliction softened by piety , and the few grey locks , which time had spared on his temples : while , beside him , stood the softer form of Emily , who leaned for support upon Annette ; her face half averted , and shaded by a thin veil , that fell over her figure ; and her mild and beautiful countenance fixed in grief so solemn as admitted not of tears , while she thus saw committed untimely to the earth her last relative and friend . 
When the service was over , the friar regarded Emily with attention and surprise , and looked as if he wished to speak to her , but was restrained by the presence of the condottieri , who , as they now led the way to the courts , amused themselves with jokes upon his holy order , which he endured in silence , demanding only to be conducted safely to his convent , and to which Emily listened with concern and even horror . 
When they reached the court , the monk gave her his blessing , and , after a lingering look of pity , turned away to the portal , whether one of the men carried a torch ; while Annette , lighting another , preceded Emily to her apartment . 
The appearance of the friar and the expression of tender compassion , with which he had regarded her , had interested Emily , who , though it was at her earnest supplication , that Montoni had consented to allow a priest to perform the last rites for his deceased wife , knew nothing concerning this person , till Annette now informed her , that he belonged to a monastery , situated among the mountains at a few miles distance . 
Several days passed with Emily in total seclusion , and in a state of mind partaking both of terror for herself , and grief for the departed . 
She , at length , determined to make other efforts to persuade Montoni to permit her return to France . 
Why he should wish to detain her , she could scarcely dare to conjecture ; but it was too certain that he did so , and the absolute refusal he had formerly given to her departure allowed her little hope , that he would now consent to it . 
But the horror , which his presence inspired , made her defer , from day to day , the mention of this subject ; and at last she was awakened from her inactivity only by a message from him , desiring her attendance at a certain hour . 
She began to hope he meant to resign , now that her aunt was no more , the authority he had usurped over her ; till she recollected , that the estates , which had occasioned so much contention , were now hers , and she then feared Montoni was about to employ some stratagem for obtaining them , and that he would detain her his prisoner , till he succeeded . 
This thought , instead of overcoming her with despondency , roused all the latent powers of her fortitude into action ; and the property , which she would willingly have resigned to secure the peace of her aunt , she resolved , that no common sufferings of her own should ever compel her to give to Montoni . 
For Valancourt 's sake also she determined to preserve these estates , since they would afford that competency , by which she hoped to secure the comfort of their future lives . 
As she thought of this , she indulged the tenderness of tears , and anticipated the delight of that moment , when , with affectionate generosity , she might tell him they were his own . 
She saw the smile , that lighted up his features -- the affectionate regard , which spoke at once his joy and thanks ; and , at this instant , she believed she could brave any suffering , which the evil spirit of Montoni might be preparing for her . 
Remembering then , for the first time since her aunt 's death , the papers relative to the estates in question , she determined to search for them , as soon as her interview with Montoni was over . 
With these resolutions she met him at the appointed time , and waited to hear his intention before she renewed her request . 
With him were Orsino and another officer , and both were standing near a table , covered with papers , which he appeared to be examining . 
`` I sent for you , Emily , '' said Montoni , raising his head , `` that you might be a witness in some business , which I am transacting with my friend Orsino . 
All that is required of you will be to sign your name to this paper : '' he then took one up , hurried unintelligibly over some lines , and , laying it before her on the table , offered her a pen . 
She took it , and was going to write -- when the design of Montoni came upon her mind like a flash of lightning ; she trembled , let the pen fall , and refused to sign what she had not read . 
Montoni affected to laugh at her scruples , and , taking up the paper , again pretended to read ; but Emily , who still trembled on perceiving her danger , and was astonished , that her own credulity had so nearly betrayed her , positively refused to sign any paper whatever . 
Montoni , for some time , persevered in affecting to ridicule this refusal ; but , when he perceived by her steady perseverance , that she understood his design , he changed his manner , and bade her follow him to another room . 
There he told her , that he had been willing to spare himself and her the trouble of useless contest , in an affair , where his will was justice , and where she should find it law ; and had , therefore , endeavoured to persuade , rather than to compel , her to the practice of her duty . 
`` I , as the husband of the late Signora Montoni , '' he added , `` am the heir of all she possessed ; the estates , therefore , which she refused to me in her life-time , can no longer be withheld , and , for your own sake , I would undeceive you , respecting a foolish assertion she once made to you in my hearng -- that these estates would be yours , if she died without resigning them to me . 
She knew at that moment , she had no power to withhold them from me , after her decease ; and I think you have more sense , than to provoke my resentment by advancing an unjust claim . 
Montoni paused ; and Emily remained silent and expecting ; for she knew him too well , to believe he would condescend to such flattery , unless he thought it would promote his own interest ; and , though he had forborne to name vanity among the foibles of women , it was evident , that he considered it to be a predominant one , since he designed to sacrifice to hers the character and understanding of her whole sex . 
Emily calmly said , `` I am not so ignorant , Signor , of the laws on this subject , as to be misled by the assertion of any person . 
`` From your justice , Signor , '' rejoined Emily , `` I have nothing to fear -- I have only to hope . '' 
Montoni looked at her with vexation , and seemed considering what to say . 
`` I find that you are weak enough , '' he resumed , `` to credit the idle assertion I alluded to ! 
`` You may find , perhaps , Signor , '' said Emily , with mild dignity , `` that the strength of my mind is equal to the justice of my cause ; and that I can endure with fortitude , when it is in resistance of oppression . '' 
Emily was silent , and he left the room . 
Recollecting , that it was for Valancourt 's fake she had thus resisted , she now smiled complacently upon the threatened sufferings , and retired to the spot , which her aunt had pointed out as the repository of the papers , relative to the estates , where she found them as described ; and , since she knew of no better place of concealment , than this , returned them , without examining their contents , being fearful of discovery , while she should attempt a perusal . 
To her own solitary chamber she once more returned , and there thought again of the late conversation with Montoni , and of the evil she might expect from opposition to his will . 
But his power did not appear to terrible to her imagination , as it was wont to do : a sacred pride was in her heart , that taught it to swell against the pressure of injustice , and almost to glory in the quiet sufferance of ills , in a cause , which had also the interest of Valancourt for its object . 
For the first time , she felt the full extent of her own superiority to Montoni , and despised the authority , which , till now , she had only feared . 
As she sat musing , a peal of laughter rose from the terrace , and , on going to the casement , she saw , with inexpressible surprise , three ladies , dressed in the gala habit of Venice , walking with several gentlemen below . 
She gazed in an astonishment that made her remain at the window , regardless of being observed , till the group passed under it ; and , one of the strangers looking up , she perceived the features of Signora Livona , with whose manners she had been so much charmed , the day after her arrival at Venice , and who had been there introduced at the table of Montoni . 
This discovery occasioned her an emotion of doubtful joy ; for it was matter of joy and comfort to know , that a person , of a mind so gentle , as that of Signora Livona seemed to be , was near her ; yet there was something so extraordinary in her being at this castle , circumstanced as it now was , and evidently , by the gaiety of her air , with her own consent , that a very painful surmise arose , concerning her character . 
But the thought was so shocking to Emily , whose affection the fascinating manners of the Signora had won , and appeared so improbable , when she remembered these manners , that she dismissed it almost instantly . 
On Annette 's appearance , however , she enquired , concerning these strangers ; and the former was as eager to tell , as Emily was to learn . 
said Emily . 
Emily desired Annette would endeavour to learn who these ladies were , as well as all she could concerning them ; and she then changed the subject , and spoke of distant France . 
Emily tried to sooth and to cheer her , with a hope , in which she scarcely herself indulged . 
said Emily , trying to smile , `` since , if you had remained there , you would not have found Ludovico . '' 
Annette departed on her business , and Emily sought to lose the sense of her own cares , in the visionary scenes of the poet ; but she had again to lament the irresistible force of circumstances over the taste and powers of the mind ; and that it requires a spirit at ease to be sensible even to the abstract pleasures of pure intellect . 
As she mused upon the book before her , she involuntarily exclaimed , `` Are these , indeed , the passages , that have so often given me exquisite delight ? 
It lived in each , '' said she , pausing . 
Emily would have pursued this train of thinking , because it relieved her from more painful reflection , but she found again , that thought can not always be controlled by will ; and hers returned to the consideration of her own situation . 
In the evening , not choosing to venture down to the ramparts , where she would be exposed to the rude gaze of Montoni 's associates , she walked for air in the gallery , adjoining her chamber ; on reaching the further end of which she heard distant sounds of merriment and laughter . 
Such sounds , at this time , when her aunt had been so few days dead , particularly shocked her , consistent as they were with the late conduct of Montoni . 
As she listened , she thought she distinguished female voices mingling with the laughter , and this confirmed her worst surmise , concerning the character of Signora Livona and her companions . 
It was evident , that they had not been brought hither by compulsion ; and she beheld herself in the remote wilds of the Apennine , surrounded by men , whom she considered to be little less than russians , and their worst associates , amid scenes of vice , from which her soul recoiled in horror . 
It was at this moment , when the scenes of the present and the future opened to her imagination , that the image of Valancourt failed in its influence , and her resolution shook with dread . 
She thought she understood all the horrors , which Montoni was preparing for her , and shrunk from an encounter with such remorseless vengeance , as he could inflict . 
The disputed estates she now almost determined to yield at once , whenever he should again call upon her , that she might regain safety and freedom ; but then , the remembrance of Valancourt would steal to her heart , and plunge her into the distractions of doubt . 
She continued walking in the gallery , till evening threw its melancholy twilight through the painted casements , and deepened the gloom of the oak wainscoting around her ; while the distant perspective of the corridor was so much obscured , as to be discernible only by the glimmering window , that terminated it . 
Emily , however , unwilling to return to her more forlorn chamber , whither Annette was not yet come , still paced the gallery . 
`` Whoever you are , '' said Emily , in a trembling voice , `` for heaven 's sake let me go ! '' 
`` My charming Emily , '' said the man , `` why will you shut yourself up in this obscure place , when there is so much gaiety below ? 
Emily disdained to reply , and still endeavoured to liberate herself . 
demanded Emily , in a tone of mingled terror and indignation , while she still struggled for liberty -- `` who are you , that have the cruelty thus to insult me ? '' 
Emily now faintly remembered , that he was one of the officers who were with Montoni when she attended him in the morning . 
`` I thank you for the kindness of your intention , '' she replied , without appearing to understand him , `` but I wish for nothing so much as that you would leave me . '' 
`` Charming Emily ! '' 
He attempted to kiss her hand , but the strong impulse of her indignation gave her power to liberate herself , and she fled towards the chamber . 
She closed the door , before he reached it , having secured which , she sunk in a chair , overcome by terror and by the exertion she had made , while she heard his voice , and his attempts to open the door , without having the power to raise herself . 
At length , she perceived him depart , and had remained , listening , for a considerable time , and was somewhat revived by not hearing any sound , when suddenly she remembered the door of the private stair-case , and that he might enter that way , since it was fastened only on the other side . 
She then employed herself in endeavouring to secure it , in the manner she had formerly done . 
It appeared to her , that Montoni had already commenced his scheme of vengeance , by withdrawing from her his protection , and she repented of the rashness , that had made her brave the power of such a man . 
To retain the estates seemed to be now utterly impossible , and to preserve her life , perhaps her honour , she resolved , if she should escape the horrors of this night , to give up all claims to the estates , on the morrow , provided Montoni would suffer her to depart from Udolpho . 
When she had come to this decision , her mind became more composed , though she still anxiously listened , and often started at ideal sounds , that appeared to issue from the stair-case . 
Emily often stole to the stair-case door , to listen if any step approached , but still no sound alarmed her : determining , however , to watch , during the night , she once more rested on her dark and desolate couch , and bathed the pillow with innocent tears . 
She thought of her deceased parents and then of the absent Valancourt , and frequently called upon their names ; for the profound stillness , that now reigned , was propitious to the musing sorrow of her mind . 
While she thus remained , her ear suddenly caught the notes of distant music , to which she listened attentively , and , soon perceiving this to be the instrument she had formerly heard at midnight , she rose , and stepped softly to the casement , to which the sounds appeared to come from a lower room . 
Its sweet and peculiar tones she thought she had somewhere heard before ; yet , if this was not fancy , it was , at most , a very faint recollection . 
It stole over her mind , amidst the anguish of her present suffering , like a celestial strain , soothing , and re-assuring her ; -- `` Pleasant as the gale of spring , that sighs on the hunter 's ear , when he awakens from dreams of joy , and has heard the music of the spirits of the hillOssian . '' 
But her emotion can scarcely be imagined , when she heard sung , with the taste and simplicity of true feeling , one of the popular airs of her native province , to which she had so often listened with delight , when a child , and which she had so often heard her father repeat ! 
To this well-known song , never , till now , heard but in her native country , her heart melted , while the memory of past times returned . 
The pleasant , peaceful scenes of Gascony , the tenderness and goodness of her parents , the taste and simplicity of her former life -- all rose to her fancy , and formed a picture , so sweet and glowing , so strikingly contrasted with the scenes , the characters and the dangers , which now surrounded her -- that her mind could not bear to pause upon the retrospect , and shrunk at the acuteness of its own sufferings . 
Her sighs were deep and convulsed ; she could no longer listen to the strain , that had so often charmed her to tranquillity , and she withdrew from the casement to a remote part of the chamber . 
But she was not yet beyond the reach of the music ; she heard the measure change , and the succeeding air called her again to the window , for she immediately recollected it to be the same she had formerly heard in the fishing-house in Gascony . 
Assisted , perhaps , by the mystery , which had then accompanied this strain , it had made so deep an impression on her memory , that she had never since entirely forgotten it ; and the manner , in which it was now sung , convinced her , however unaccountable the circumstance appeared , that this was the same voice she had then heard . 
Surprise soon yielded to other emotions ; a thought darted , like lightning , upon her mind , which discovered a train of hopes , that revived all her spirits . 
Yet these hopes were so new , so unexpected , so astonishing , that she did not dare to trust , though she could not resolve to discourage them . 
She sat down by the casement , breathless , and overcome with the alternate emotions of hope and fear ; then rose again , leaned from the window , that she might catch a nearer sound , listened , now doubting and then believing , softly exclaimed the name of Valancourt , and then sunk again into the chair . 
Yes , it was possible , that Valancourt was near her , and she recollected circumstances , which induced her to believe it was his voice she had just heard . 
She remembered he had more than once said that the fishing house , where she had formerly listened to this voice and air , and where she had seen pencilled sonnets , addressed to herself , had been his favourite haunt , before he had been made known to her ; there , too , she had herself unexpectedly met him . 
It appeared , from these circumstances , more than probable , that he was the musician , who had formerly charmed her attention , and the author of the lines , which had expressed such tender admiration ; -- who else , indeed , could it be ? 
She was unable , at that time , to form a conjecture , as to the writer , but , since her acquaintance with Valancourt , whenever he had mentioned the fishing-house to have been known to him , she had not scrupled to believe that he was the author of the sonnets . 
As these considerations passed over her mind , joy , fear and tenderness contended at her heart ; she leaned again from the casement to catch the sounds , which might confirm , or destroy her hope , though she did not recollect to have ever heard him sing ; but the voice , and the instrument , now ceased . 
She considered for a moment whether she should venture to speak : then , not choosing , lest it should be he , to mention his name , and yet too much interested to neglect the opportunity of enquiring , she called from the casement , `` Is that song from Gascony ? '' 
Her anxious attention was not cheered by any reply ; every thing remained silent . 
Her impatience increasing with her fears , she repeated the question ; but still no sound was heard , except the sighings of the wind among the battlements above ; and she endeavoured to console herself with a belief , that the stranger , whoever he was , had retired , before she had spoken , beyond the reach of her voice , which , it appeared certain , had Valancourt heard and recognized , he would instantly have replied to . 
Presently , however , she considered , that a motive of prudence , and not an accidental removal , might occasion his silence ; but the surmise , that led to this reflection , suddenly changed her hope and joy to terror and grief ; for , if Valancourt were in the castle , it was too probable , that he was here a prisoner , taken with some of his countrymen , many of whom were at that time engaged in the wars of Italy , or intercepted in some attempt to reach her . 
Had he even recollected Emily 's voice , he would have feared , in these circumstances , to reply to it , in the presence of the men , who guarded his prison . 
What so lately she had eagerly hoped she now believed she dreaded ; -- dreaded to know , that Valancourt was near her ; and , while she was anxious to be relieved from her apprehension for his safety , she still was unconseious , that a hope of soon seeing him , struggled with the fear . 
She remained listening at the casement , till the air began to freshen , and one high mountain in the east to glimmer with the morning ; when , wearied with anxiety , she retired to her couch , where she found it utterly impossible to sleep , for joy , tenderness , doubt and apprehension , distracted her during the whole night . 
Now she rose from the couch , and opened the casement to listen ; then she would pace the room with impatient steps , and , at length , return with despondence to her pillow . 
Never did hours appear to move so heavily , as those of this anxious night ; after which she hoped that Annette might appear , and conclude her present state of torturing suspense . 
In the morning , Emily was relieved from her fears for Annette , who came at an early hour . 
`` I was alarmed both on your account and on my own , '' replied Emily -- `` What detained you ? '' 
said Emily , with displeasure , `` Why do you permit Ludovico to lock you up ? '' 
said Emily . 
exclaimed Emily , `` what will become of me ! '' 
So , with that I says '' -- `` Well , well , '' said Emily , impatiently , and anxious to enquire on another subject , -- `` so he locked you up ? '' 
said he , `` here is no enemy at the gate , that you need hide yourself : come forth , my valorous Signor Steward ! '' 
O no , says I , I would not '' -- `` I have some questions to ask you on another subject , '' interrupted Emily , quite wearied by this story . 
Emily enquired if she had ever heard the servants talk of prisoners . 
said Emily , in a tone of mournful reproach . 
`` Your regard for him can not be doubted , '' said Emily , `` since you wish to see him a prisoner . '' 
Emily could not forbear smiling at Annette 's ideas of Valancourt , and repeated her enquiry , whether she had heard the servants talk of prisoners . 
`` No , ma'amselle , '' replied she , `` never ; and lately they have done nothing but talk of the apparition , that has been walking about of a night on the ramparts , and that frightened the sentinels into fits . 
`` And are you , indeed , so simple , Annette , '' said Emily , smiling at this curious exaggeration of the circumstance she had witnessed , `` as to credit these stories ? '' 
Emily endeavoured to correct the superstitious weakness of Annette , though she could not entirely subdue her own ; to which the latter only replied , `` Nay , ma'amselle , you will believe nothing ; you are almost as bad as the Signor himself , who was in a great passion when they told him of what had happened , and swore that the first man , who repeated such nonsense , should be thrown into the dungeon under the east turret . 
Emily looked displeased , and made no reply . 
As she mused upon the recollected appearance , which had lately so much alarmed her , and considered the circumstances of the figure having stationed itself opposite to her casement , she was for a moment inclined to believe it was Valancourt , whom she had seen . 
Yet , if it was he , why did he not speak to her , when he had the opportunity of doing so -- and , if he was a prisoner in the castle , and he could be here in no other character , how could be obtain the means of walking abroad on the rampart ? 
Thus she was utterly unable to decide , whether the musician and the form she had observed , were the same , or , if they were , whether this was Valancourt . 
She , however , desired that Annette would endeavour to learn whether any prisoners were in the castle , and also their names . 
said I. '' Emily turned away to conceal her emotion , and then desired Annette to go , and make enquiry , concerning the prisoners , that might be in the castle , but conjured her to do it with caution , and on no account to mention her name , or that of Monsieur Valancourt . 
This information heightened Emily 's impatience to know more , and Annette immediately departed on her enquiry . 
The late resolution of Emily to resign her estates to Montoni , now gave way to new considerations ; the possibility , that Valancourt was near her , revived her fortitude , and she determined to brave the threatened vengeance , at least , till she could be assured whether he was really in the castle . 
She was in this temper of mind , when she received a message from Montoni , requiring her attendance in the cedar parlour , which she obeyed with trembling , and , on her way thither , endeavoured to animate her fortitude with the idea of Valancourt . 
`` I sent for you , '' said he , `` to give you another opportunity of retracting your late mistaken assertions concerning the Languedoc estates . 
`` If I have no right in these estates , sir , '' said Emily , `` of what service can it be to you , that I should sign any papers , concerning them ? 
`` I will have no more argument , '' said Montoni , with a look that made her tremble . 
Emily 's resolution was for a moment awed : -- she shrunk at the recollections he revived , and from the vengeance he threatened ; but then , the image of Valancourt , who so long had loved her , and who was now , perhaps , so near her , came to her heart , and , together with the strong feelings of indignation , with which she had always , from her infancy , regarded an act of injustice , inspired her with a noble , though imprudent , courage . 
`` Never , sir , '' replied Emily ; `` that request would have proved to me the injustice of your claim , had I even been ignorant of my right . '' 
Montoni turned pale with anger , while his quivering lip and lurking eye made her almost repent the boldness of her speech . 
`` Then all my vengeance falls upon you , '' he exclaimed , with an horrible oath . 
Montoni paused , and turned half round , but , seeming to recollect himself , he proceeded in a lower tone . 
He was interrupted by a groan , which seemed to rise from underneath the chamber they were in ; and , as he threw a glance round it , impatience and rage slashed from his eyes , yet something like a shade of fear passed over his countenance . 
Emily sat down in a chair , near the door , for the various emotions she had suffered , now almost overcame her ; but Montoni paused scarcely an instant , and , commanding his features , resumed his discourse in a lower , yet sterner voice . 
said he , seeming not to notice this strange occurrence . 
Without power to implore his pity , she rose to go , but found that she could not support herself ; awe and terror overcame her , and she sunk again into the chair . 
said Emily , trembling , and still unable to leave the room . 
said Emily , speaking with difficulty . 
Emily again rose , and exerted herself to the utmost to leave the room , while Montoni followed her ; but , instead of calling aloud to his servants to search the chamber , as he had formerly done on a similar occurrence , passed to the ramparts . 
As , in her way to the corridor , she rested for a moment at an open casement , Emily saw a party of Montoni 's troops winding down a distant mountain , whom she noticed no further , than as they brought to her mind the wretched prisoners they were , perhaps , bringing to the castle . 
At length , having reached her apartment , she threw herself upon the couch , overcome with the new horrors of her situation . 
Her thoughts lost in tumult and perplexity , she could neither repent of , or approve , her late conduct ; she could only remember , that she was in the power of a man , who had no principle of action -- but his will ; and the astonishment and terrors of superstition , which had , for a moment , so strongly assailed her , now yielded to those of reason . 
She was , at length , roused from the reverie , which engaged her , by a confusion of distant voices , and a clattering of hoofs , that seemed to come , on the wind , from the courts . 
A sudden hope , that some good was approaching , seized her mind , till she remembered the troops she had observed from the casement , and concluded this to be the party , which Annette had said were expected at Udolpho . 
Emily listened anxiously for Annette 's step in the corridor , but a pause of total stillness continued , till again the castle seemed to be all tumult and confusion . 
She heard the echoes of many footsteps , passing to and fro in the halls and avenues below , and then busy tongues were loud on the rampart . 
Having hurried to her casement , she perceived Montoni , with some of his officers , leaning on the walls , and pointing from them ; while several soldiers were employed at the further end of the rampart about some cannon ; and she continued to observe them , careless of the passing time . 
exclaimed Emily , fervently , `` there is yet a hope left for me , then ! '' 
`` We can not be in worse hands than at present , '' replied Emily , unguardedly ; `` but what reason have you to suppose these are officers of justice ? '' 
Emily caught the latter words of Annette . 
she exclaimed , `` my peace might yet be saved ! '' 
The heavy groan she uttered , and the wildness of her look , terrified Annette , still more than her words ; who entreated Emily to explain the meaning of them , to whom it suddenly occurred , that Ludovico might be of some service , if there should be a possibility of escape , and who repeated the substance of what had passed between Montoni and herself , but conjured her to mention this to no person except to Ludovico . 
`` It may , perhaps , be in his power , '' she added , `` to effect our escape . 
The girl , whose honest heart had been much affected by the recital , was now as eager to obey , as Emily was to employ her , and she immediately quitted the room . 
Emily 's surprise increased , as she reflected upon Annette 's intelligence . 
Montoni , though not precisely what Emily apprehended him to be -- a captain of banditti -- had employed his troops in enterprises not less daring , or less atrocious , than such a character would have undertaken . 
As Emily awaited anxiously some information from below , she now saw from her casements a body of troops pour over the neighbouring heights ; and , though Annette had been gone a very short time , and had a difficult and dangerous business to accomplish , her impatience for intelligence became painful : she listened ; opened her door ; and often went out upon the corridor to meet her . 
exclaimed Emily , thoughtlessly ; `` has , then , the Signor so much consideration for me ? '' 
A thousand opposite emotions agitated Emily , successively , as she listened to old Carlo ; those of joy , grief , distrust and apprehension , appeared , and vanished from her mind , with the quickness of lightning . 
One moment , it seemed impossible , that Montoni could take this measure merely for her preservation ; and so very strange was his sending her from the castle at all , that she could attribute it only to the design of carrying into execution the new scheme of vengeance , with which he had menaced her . 
In the next instant , it appeared so desirable to quit the castle , under any circumstances , that she could not but rejoice in the prospect , believing that change must be for the better , till she remembered the probability of Valancourt being detained in it , when sorrow and regret usurped hermind , and she wished , much more fervently than she had yet done , that it might not be his voice which she had heard . 
Carlo having reminded her , that she had no time to lose , for that the enemy were within sight of the castle , Emily entreated him to inform her whither she was to go ; and , after some hesitation , he said he had received no orders to tell ; but , on her repeating the question , replied , that he believed she was to be carried into Tuscany . 
exclaimed Emily -- `` and why thither ? '' 
Carlo answered , that he knew nothing further , than that she was to be lodged in a cottage on the borders of Tuscany , at the feet of the Apennines -- `` Not a day 's journey distant , '' said he . 
Emily now dismissed him ; and , with trembling hands , prepared the small package , that she meant to take with her ; while she was employed about which Annette returned . 
She now began to weep , but revived upon hearing of what had just occurred , and entreated Emily to take her with her . 
`` That I will do most willingly , '' replied Emily , `` if Signor Montoni permits it ; '' to which Annette made no reply , but ran out of the room , and immediately sought Montoni , who was on theterrace , surrounded by his officers , where she began her petition . 
In an agony of disappointment , she returned to Emily , who foreboded little good towards herself , from this refusal to Annette , and who , soon after , received a summons to repair to the great court , where the mules , with her guides , were in waiting . 
Emily here tried in vain to sooth the weeping Annette , who persisted in saying , that she should never see her dear young lady again ; a fear , which her mistress secretly thought too well justified , but which she endeavoured to restrain , while , with apparent composure , she bade this affectionate servant farewell . 
Emily , meanwhile , as she looked back upon the gloomy courts of the castle , no longer silent as when she had first entered them , but resounding with the noise of preparation for their defence , as well as crowded with soldiers and workmen , hurrying to and fro ; and , when she passed once more under the huge portcullis , which had formerly struck her with terror and dismay ; and , looking round , saw no walls to confine her steps -- felt , in spite of anticipation , the sudden joy of a prisoner , who unexpectedly finds himself at liberty . 
This emotion would not suffer her now to look impartially on the dangers that awaited her without ; on mountains infested by hostile parties , who seized every opportunity for plunder ; and on a journey commenced under the guidance of men , whose countenances certainly did not speak favourably of their dispositions . 
In the present moments , she could only rejoice , that she was liberated from those walls , which she had entered with such dismal forebodings ; and , remembering the superstitious presentiment , which had then seized her , she could now smile at the impression it had made upon her mind . 
As she gazed , with these emotions , upon the turrets of the castle , rising high over the woods , among which she wound , the stranger , whom she believed to be confined there , returned to her remembrance , and anxiety and apprehension , lest he should be Valancourt , again passed like a cloud upon her joy . 
She recollected every circumstance , concerning this unknown person , since the night , when she had first heard him play the song of her native province ; -- circumstances , which she had so often recollected , and compared before , without extracting from them any thing like conviction , and which still only prompted her to believe , that Valancourt was a prisoner at Udolpho . 
It was possible , however , that the men , who were her conductors , might afford her information , on this subject ; but , fearing to question them immediately , lest they should be unwilling to discover any circumstance to her in the presence of each other , she watched for an opportunity of speaking with them separately . 
Soon after , a trumpet echoed faintly from a distance ; the guides stopped , and looked toward the quarter whence it came , but the thick woods , which surrounded them , excluding all view of the country beyond , one of the men rode on to the point of an eminence , that afforded a more extensive prospect , to observe how near the enemy , whose trumpet he guessed this to be , were advanced ; the other , meanwhile , remained with Emily , and to him she put some questions , concerning the stranger at Udolpho . 
Ugo , for this was his name , said , that there were several prisoners in the castle , but he neither recollected their persons , or the precise time of their arrival , and could therefore give her no information . 
There was a surliness in his manner , as he spoke , that made it probable he would not have satisfied her enquiries , even if he could have done so . 
Having asked him what prisoners had been taken , about the time , as nearly as she could remember , when she had first heard the music , `` All that week , '' said Ugo , `` I was out with a party , upon the mountains , and knew nothing of what was doing at the castle . 
Bertrand , the other man , being now returned , Emily enquired no further , and , when he had related to his companion what he had seen , they travelled on in deep silence ; while Emily often caught , between the opening woods , partial glimpses of the castle above -- the west towers , whose battlements were now crowded with archers ' and the ramparts below , where soldiers were seen hurrying along , or busy upon the walls , preparing the cannon . 
Emily had now a full view of Udolpho , with its gray walls , towers and terraces , high over-topping the precipices and the dark woods , and glittering partially with the arms of the condottieri , as the sun 's rays , streaming through an autumnal cloud , glanced upon a part of the edifice , whose remaining features stood in darkened majesty . 
She continued to gaze , through her tears , upon walls that , perhaps , confined Valancourt , and which now , as the cloud floated away , were lighted up with sudden splendour , and then , as suddenly were shrouded in gloom ; while the passing gleam fell on the wood-tops below , and heightened the first tints of autumn , that had begun to steal upon the foliage . 
The winding mountains , at length , shut Udolpho from her view , and she turned , with mournful reluctance , to other objects . 
The melancholy sighing of the wind among the pines , that waved high over the steeps , and the distant thunder of a torrent assisted her musings , and conspired with the wild scenery around , to diffuse over her mind emotions solemn , yet not unpleasing , but which were soon interrupted by the distant roar of cannon , echoing among the mountains . 
This was a signal , that the enemy had reached the castle , and fear for Valancourt again tormented Emily . 
She turned her anxious eyes towards that part of the country , where the edifice stood , but the intervening heights concealed it from her view ; still , however , she saw the tall head of a mountain , which immediately fronted her late chamber , and on this she fixed her gaze , as if it could have told her of all that was passing in the scene it overlooked . 
The guides twice reminded her , that she was losing time and that they had far to go , before she could turn from this interesting object , and , even when she again moved onward , she often sent a look back , till only its blue point , brightening in a gleam of sunshine , appeared peeping over other mountains . 
Emily asked frequent questions , concerning the place of her destination , but could only learn , that she was going to a cottage in Tuscany ; and , whenever she mentioned the subject , she fancied she perceived , in the countenances of these men , an expression of malice and cunning , that alarmed her . 
To Emily it appeared a spot exactly suited for the retreat of banditti , and , in her imagination , she already saw them lurking under the brow of some projecting rock , whence their shadows , lengthened by the setting sun , stretched across the road , and warned the traveller of his danger . 
This was a new subject of alarm to Emily , but inferior to what she suffered from the thought of being left in these wilds , at midnight , with two such men as her present conductors . 
Dark and dreadful hints of what might be Montoni 's purpose in sending her hither , came to her mind . 
She endeavoured to dissuade the men from stopping , and enquired , with anxiety , how far they had yet to go . 
His comrade assented , and , turning the mules out of the road , they advanced towards a cliff , overhung with cedars , Emily following in trembling silence . 
They lifted her from her mule , and , having seated themselves on the grass , at the foot of the rocks , drew some homely fare from a wallet , of which Emily tried to eat a little , the better to disguise her apprehensions . 
To the low and sullen murmur of the breeze , passing among the woods , she no longer listened with any degree of pleasure , for it conspired with the wildness of the scene and the evening hour , to depress her spirits . 
Suspense had so much increased her anxiety , as to the prisoner at Udolpho , that , finding it impracticable to speak alone with Bertrand , on that subject , she renewed her questions in the presence of Ugo ; but he either was , or pretended to be entirely ignorant , concerning the stranger . 
When he had dismissed the question , he talked with Ugo on some subject , which led to the mention of Signor Orsino and of the affair that had banished him from Venice ; respecting which Emily had ventured to ask a few questions . 
Ugo appeared to be well acquainted with the circumstances of that tragical event , and related some minute particulars , that both shocked and surprised her ; for it appeared very extraordinary how such particulars could be known to any , but to persons , present when the assassination was committed . 
`` He was of rank , '' said Bertrand , `` or the State would not have troubled itself to enquire after his assassins . 
The Signor has been lucky hitherto ; this is not the first affair of the kind he has had upon his hands ; and to be sure , when a gentleman has no other way of getting redress -- why he must take this . '' 
Emily 's horror at this conversation was heightened by a suspicion , that the latter part of it was pointed against herself , and that these men had been commissioned by Montoni to execute a similar kind of justice , in his cause . 
Emily turned pale , at these words , and then hoped she had mistaken them ; while Bertrand proceeded : `` The gentleman fired again , but he was soon made to alight , and it was as he turned to call his people , that he was struck . 
exclaimed Emily , pale with horror , on whom not a syllable of this narrative had been lost . 
said Emily , in a faltering voice , `` Why do you repeat that name ? '' 
Emily now breathed with difficulty , and could scarcely support herself . 
When first she saw these men , their appearance and their connection with Montoni had been sufficient to impress her with distrust ; but now , when one of them had betrayed himself to be a murderer , and she saw herself , at the approach of night , under his guidance , among wild and solitary mountains , and going she scarcely knew whither , the most agonizing terror seized her , which was the less supportable from the necessity she found herself under of concealing all symptoms of it from her companions . 
Reflecting on the character and the menaces of Montoni , it appeared not improbable , that he had delivered her to them , for the purpose of having her murdered , and of thus securing to himself , without further opposition , or delay , the estates , for which he had so long and so desperately contended . 
Yet , if this was his design , there appeared no necessity for sending her to such a distance from the castle ; for , if any dread of discovery had made him unwilling to perpetrate the deed there , a much nearer place might have sufficed for the purpose of concealment . 
These considerations , however , did not immediately occur to Emily , with whom so many circumstances conspired to rouse terror , that she had no power to oppose it , or to enquire coolly into its grounds ; and , if she had done so , still there were many appearances which would too well have justified her most terrible apprehensions . 
She did not now dare to speak to her conductors , at the sound of whose voices she trembled ; and when , now and then , she stole a glance at them , their countenances , seen imperfectly through the gloom of evening , served to confirm her fears . 
The hollow moan struck upon Emily 's heart , and served to render more gloomy and terrific every object around her , -- the mountains , shaded in twilight -- the gleaming torrent , hoarsely roaring -- the black forests , and the deep glen , broken into rocky recesses , high overshadowed by cypress and sycamore and winding into long obscurity . 
To this glen , Emily , as she sent forth her anxious eye , thought there was no end ; no hamlet , or even cottage , was seen , and still no distant bark of watch-dog , or even faint , far-off halloo came on the wind . 
In a tremulous voice , she now ventured to remind the guides , that it was growing late , and to ask again how far they had to go : but they were too much occupied by their own discourse to attend to her question , which she forbore to repeat , lest it should provoke a surly answer . 
Having , however , soon after , finished their supper , the men collected the fragments into their wallet , and proceeded along this winding glen , in gloomy silence ; while Emily again mused upon her own situation , and concerning the motives of Montoni for involving her in it . 
That it was for some evil purpose towards herself , she could not doubt ; and it seemed , that , if he did not intend to destroy her , with a view of immediately seizing her estates , he meant to reserve her a while in concealment , for some more terrible design , for one that might equally gratify his avarice and still more his deep revenge . 
At this moment , remembering Signor Brochio and his behaviour in the corridor , a few preceding nights , the latter supposition , horrible as it was , strengthened in her belief . 
Yet , why remove her from the castle , where deeds of darkness had , she feared , been often executed with secrecy ? 
The dread of what she might be going to encounter was now so excessive , that it sometimes threatened her senses ; and , often as she went , she thought of her late father and of all he would have suffered , could he have foreseen the strange and dreadful events of her future life ; and how anxiously he would have avoided that fatal confidence , which committed his daughter to the care of a woman so weak as was Madame Montoni . 
So romantic and improbable , indeed , did her present situation appear to Emily herself , particularly when she compared it with the repose and beauty of her early days , that there were moments , when she could almost have believed herself the victim of frightful visions , glaring upon a disordered fancy . 
Restrained by the presence of her guides from expressing her terrors , their acuteness was , at length , lost in gloomy despair . 
The dreadful view of what might await her hereafter rendered her almost indifferent to the surrounding dangers . 
She now looked , with little emotion , on the wild dingles , and the gloomy road and mountains , whose outlines only were distinguishable through the dusk ; -- objects , which but lately had affected her spirits so much , as to awaken horrid views of the future , and to tinge these with their own gloom . 
Emily shivered as it passed . 
Ugo muttered something , which Emily did not understand , and they proceeded in darkness , while she almost wished , that the enemy might discover them ; for from change there was something to hope , since she could scarcely imagine any situation more dreadful than her present one . 
As they moved slowly along , her attention was surprised by a thin tapering flame , that appeared , by fits , at the point of the pike , which Bertrand carried , resembling what she had observed on the lance of the sentinel , the night Madame Montoni died , and which he had said was an omen . 
The event immediately following it appeared to justify the assertion , and a superstitious impression had remained on Emily 's mind , which the present appearance confirmed . 
She thought it was an omen of her own fate , and watched it successively vanish and return , in gloomy silence , which was at length interrupted by Bertrand . 
Emily was relieved by this conversation from some of the terrors of superstition , but those of reason increased , as , waiting while Ugo searched for a flint , to strike fire , she watched the pale lightning gleam over the woods they were about to enter , and illumine the harsh countenances of her companions . 
The men then dismounted , and , having assisted Emily , led the mules towards the woods , that skirted the glen , on the left , over broken ground , frequently interrupted with brush-wood and wild plants , which she was often obliged to make a circuit to avoid . 
She could not approach these woods , without experiencing keener sense of her danger . 
Their deep silence , except when the wind swept among their branches , and impenetrable glooms shewn partially by the sudden flash , and then , by the red glare of the torch , which served only to make `` darkness visible , '' were circumstances , that contributed to renew all her most terrible apprehensions ; she thought , too , that , at this moment , the countenances of her conductors displayed more than their usual fierceness , mingled with a kind of lurking exultation , which they seemed endeavouring to disguise . 
To her affrighted fancy it occurred , that they were leading her into these woods to complete the will of Montoni by her murder . 
The horrid suggestion called a groan from her heart , which surprised her companions , who turned round quickly towards her , and she demanded why they led her thither , beseeching them to continue their way along the open glen , which she represented to be less dangerous than the woods , in a thunder storm . 
Between the boles of the trees , the blue lightning flashed and quivered along the ground , while , as Emily looked under the boughs , the mountains beyond frequently appeared to be clothed in livid flame . 
At this moment , perhaps , she felt less fear of the storm , than did either of her companions , for other terrors occupied her mind . 
The men now rested under an enormous chesnut-tree , and fixed their pikes in the ground , at some distance , on the iron points of which Emily repeatedly observed the lightning play , and then glide down them into the earth . 
Emily 's spirits , now that she had quitted the woods , began to revive ; for she considered , that , if these men had received an order to destroy her , they would probably have executed their barbarous purpose in the solitary wild , from whence they had just emerged , where the deed would have been shrouded from every human eye . 
Reassured by this reflection , and by the quiet demeanour of her guides , Emily , as they proceeded silently , in a kind of sheep track , that wound along the skirts of the woods , which ascended on the right , could not survey the sleeping beauty of the vale , to which they were declining , without a momentary sensation of pleasure . 
`` There is the sea yonder , '' said Bertrand , as if he had known that Emily was examining the twilight view , `` yonder in the west , though we can not see it . '' 
Emily already perceived a change in the climate , from that of the wild and mountainous tract she had left ; and , as she continued descending , the air became perfumed by the breath of a thousand nameless flowers among the grass , called forth by the late rain . 
So soothingly beautiful was the scene around her , and so strikingly contrasted to the gloomy grandeur of those , to which she had long been confined , and to the manners of the people , who moved among them , that she could almost have fancied herself again at La Vallée , and , wondering why Montoni had sent her hither , could scarcely believe , that he had selected so enchanting a spot for any cruel design . 
It was , however , probably not the spot , but the persons , who happened to inhabit it , and to whose care he could safely commit the execution of his plans , whatever they might be , that had determined his choice . 
She now ventured again to enquire , whether they were near the place of their destination , and was answered by Ugo , that they had not far to go . 
`` Only to the wood of chesnuts in the valley yonder , '' said he , `` there , by the brook , that sparkles with the moon ; I wish I was once at rest there , with a flask of good wine , and a slice of Tuscany bacon . '' 
Emily 's spirits revived , when she heard , that the journey was so nearly concluded , and saw the wood of chesnuts in an open part of the vale , on the margin of the stream . 
Bertrand now stepped on first , and Emily heard him knock , and call loudly at the door . 
As she reached it , the small upper casement , where the light appeared , was unclosed by a man , who , having enquired what they wanted , immediately descended , let them into a neat rustic cot , and called up his wife to set refreshments before the travellers . 
As this man conversed , rather apart , with Bertrand , Emily anxiously surveyed him . 
The peasant placed before them all , that his cottage afforded -- ham , wine , figs , and grapes of such size and flavour , as Emily had seldom tasted . 
After taking refreshment , she was shewn by the peasant 's wife to her little bed-chamber , where she asked some questions concerning Montoni , to which the woman , whose name was Dorina , gave reserved answers , pretending ignorance of his Excellenza 's intention in sending Emily hither , but acknowledging that her husband had been apprized of the circumstance . 
Perceiving , that she could obtain no intelligence concerning her destination , Emily dismissed Dorina , and retired to repose ; but all the busy scenes of the past and the anticipated ones of the future came to her anxious mind , and conspired with the sense of her new situation to banish sleep . 
When Emily , in the morning , opened her casement , she was surprised to observe the beauties , that surrounded it . 
Beneath the dark and spreading branches , appeared , to the north , and to the east , the woody Apennines , rising in majestic amphitheatre , not black with pines , as she had been accustomed to see them , but their loftiest summits crowned with antient forests of chesnut , oak , and oriental plane , now animated with the rich tints of autumn , and which swept downward to the valley uninterruptedly , except where some bold rocky promontory looked out from among the foliage , and caught the passing gleam . 
Vines , their purple clusters blushing between the russet foliage , hung in luxuriant festoons from the branches of standard fig and cherry trees , while pastures of verdure , such as Emily had seldom seen in Italy , enriched the banks of a stream that , after descending from the mountains , wound along the landscape , which it reflected , to a bay of the sea . 
The cottage , which was shaded by the woods from the intenser rays of the sun , and was open only to his evening light , was covered entirely with vines , fig-trees and jessamine , whose flowers surpassed in size and fragrance any that Emily had seen . 
These and ripening clusters of grapes hung round her little casement . 
This , though nearly opposite to Emily 's window , did not interrupt her prospect , but rather heightened , by its dark verdure , the effect of the perspective ; and to her this spot was a bower of sweets , whose charms communicated imperceptibly to her mind somewhat of their own serenity . 
She was soon summoned to breakfast , by the peasant 's daughter , a girl about seventeen , of a pleasant countenance , which , Emily was glad to observe , seemed animated with the pure affections of nature , though the others , that surrounded her , expressed , more or less , the worst qualities -- cruelty , ferocity , cunning and duplicity ; of the latter style of countenance , especially , were those of the peasant and his wife . 
Maddelina spoke little , but what she said was in a soft voice , and with an air of modesty and complacency , that interested Emily , who breakfasted at a separate table with Dorina , while Ugo and Bertrand were taking a repast of Tuscany bacon and wine with their host , near the cottage door ; when they had finished which , Ugo , rising hastily , enquired for his mule , and Emily learned that he was to return to Udolpho , while Bertrand remained at the cottage ; a circumstance , which , though it did not surprise , distressed her . 
When Ugo was departed , Emily proposed to walk in the neighbouring woods ; but , on being told , that she must not quit the cottage , without having Bertrand for her attendant , she withdrew to her own room . 
There , as her eyes settled on the towering Apennines , she recollected the terrific scenery they had exhibited and the horrors she had suffered , on the preceding night , particularly at the moment when Bertrand had betrayed himself to be an assassin ; and these remembrances awakened a train of images , which , since they abstracted her from a consideration of her own situation , she pursued for some time , and then arranged in the following lines ; pleased to have discovered any innocent means , by which she could beguile an hour of misfortune . 
Preferring the solitude of her room to the company of the persons below stairs , Emily dined above , and Maddelina was suffered to attend her , from whose simple conversation she learned , that the peasant and his wife were old inhabitants of this cottage , which had been purchased for them by Montoni , in reward of some service , rendered him , many years before , by Marco , to whom Carlo , the steward at the castle , was nearly related . 
To the mention of this circumstance Emily listened with a painful interest , since it appeared to give a frightful colour to the character of Marco , whose service , thus rewarded by Montoni , she could scarcely doubt had been criminal ; and , if so , had too much reason to believe , that she had been committed into his hands for some desperate purpose . 
`` Did you ever hear how many years it is , '' said Emily , who was considering of Signora Laurentini 's disappearance from Udolpho , `` since your father performed the services you spoke of ? '' 
This was near the period , when Signora Laurentini had been said to disappear , and it occurred to Emily , that Marco had assisted in that mysterious affair , and , perhaps , had been employed in a murder ! 
This horrible suggestion fixed her in such profound reverie , that Maddelina quitted the room , unperceived by her , and she remained unconscious of all around her , for a considerable time . 
Tears , at length , came to her relief , after indulging which , her spirits becoming calmer , she ceased to tremble at a view of evils , that might never arrive ; and had sufficient resolution to endeavour to withdraw her thoughts from the contemplation of her own interests . 
Remembering the few books , which even in the hurry of her departure from Udolpho she had put into her little package , she sat down with one of them at her pleasant casement , whence her eyes often wandered from the page to the landscape , whose beauty gradually soothed her mind into gentle melancholy . 
Here , she remained alone , till evening , and saw the sun descend the western sky , throw all his pomp of light and shadow upon the mountains , and gleam upon the distant ocean and the stealing sails , as he sunk amidst the waves . 
Then , at the musing hour of twilight , her softened thoughts returned to Valancourt ; she again recollected every circumstance , connected with the midnight music , and all that might assist her conjecture , concerning his imprisonment at the castle , and , becoming confirmed in the supposition , that it was his voice she had heard there , she looked back to that gloomy abode with emotions of grief and momentary regret . 
Refreshed by the cool and fragrant air , and her spirits soothed to a state of gentle melancholy by the stilly murmur of the brook below and of the woods around , she lingered at her casement long after the sun had set , watching the valley sinking into obscurity , till only the grand outline of the surrounding mountains , shadowed upon the horizon , remained visible . 
The scenes of La Vallée , in the early morn of her life , when she was protected and beloved by parents equally loved , appeared in Emily 's memory tenderly beautiful , like the prospect before her , and awakened mournful comparisons . 
said Emily , as she let her in . 
My father and mother and Bertrand are all gone to bed , '' continued Maddelina , as she gently shut the door , and crept forward , `` and I have brought you some supper , for you had none , you know , Signora , below stairs . 
Emily thanked her , but expressed apprehension lest this kindness should draw upon her the resentment of Dorina , when she perceived the fruit was gone . 
`` Take it back , therefore , Maddelina , '' added Emily , `` I shall suffer much less from the want of it , than I should do , if this act of good-nature was to subject you to your mother 's displeasure . '' 
Emily was so much affected by this instance of the good girl 's generosity , that she remained for some time unable to reply , and Maddelina watched her in silence , till , mistaking the cause of her emotion , she said , `` Do not weep so , Signora ! 
Emily , smiling through her tears , told Maddelina , that she was a good girl , and then accepted her offering . 
She wished anxiously to know , whether Bertrand and Dorina had spoken of Montoni , or of his designs , concerning herself , in the presence of Maddelina , but disdained to tempt the innocent girl to a conduct so mean , as that of betraying the private conversation of her parents . 
When she was departing , Emily requested , that she would come to her room as often as she dared , without offending her mother , and Maddelina , after promising , that she would do so , stole softly back gain to her own chamber . 
Thus several days passed , during which Emily remained in her own room , Maddelina attending her only at her repast , whose gentle countenance and manners soothed her more than any circumstance she had known for many months . 
Of her pleasant embowered chamber she now became fond , and began to experience in it those feelings of security , which we naturally attach to home . 
In this interval also , her mind , having been undisturbed by any new circumstance of disgust , or alarm , recovered its tone sufficiently to permit her the enjoyment of her books , among which she found some unfinished sketches of landscapes , several blank sheets of paper , with her drawing instruments , and she was thus enabled to amuse herself with selecting some of the lovely features of the prospect , that her window commanded , and combining them in scenes , to which her tasteful fancy gave a last grace . 
In these little sketches she generally placed interesting groups , characteristic of the scenery they animated , and often contrived to tell , with perspicuity , some simple and affecting story , when , as a tear fell over the pictured griefs , which her imagination drew , she would forget , for a moment , her real sufferings . 
Thus innocently she beguiled the heavy hours of misfortune , and , with meek patience , awaited the events of futurity . 
A beautiful evening , that had succeeded to a sultry day , at length induced Emily to walk , though she knew that Bertrand must attend her , and , with Maddelina for her companion , she left the cottage , followed by Bertrand , who allowed her to choose her own way . 
The hour was cool and silent , and she could not look upon the country around her , without delight . 
Emily followed the course of the stream , under the shades , that overhung its grassy margin . 
She pursued her way towards the sea , which reflected the warm glow of sun-set , while the cliffs , that rose over its edge , were tinted with the last rays . 
Having reached this headland , Emily gazed with solemn pleasure on the cliffs , that extended on either hand along the sequestered shores , some crowned with groves of pine , and others exhibiting only barren precipices of a grayish marble , except where the crags were tufted with myrtle and other aromatic shrubs . 
Emily , as she looked upon the ocean , thought of France and of past times , and she wished , Oh ! 
that its waves would bear her to her distant , native home ! 
that vessel , '' said she , `` that vessel , which glides along so stately , with its tall sails reflected in the water , is , perhaps , bound for France ! 
She continued to gaze upon it , with warm emotion , till the gray of twilight obscured the distance , and veiled it from her view . 
The melancholy sound of the waves at her feet assisted the tenderness , that occasioned her tears , and this , was the only sound , that broke upon the hour , till , having followed the windings of the beach , for some time , a chorus of voices passed her on the air . 
She paused a moment , wishing to hear more , yet fearing to be seen , and , for the first time , looked back to Bertrand , as her protector , who was following , at a short distance , in company with some other person . 
Reassured by this circumstance , she advanced towards the sounds , which seemed to arise from behind a high promontory , that projected athwart the beach . 
Emily quickened her steps , and , winding round the rock , saw , within the sweeping bay , beyond , which was hung with woods from the borders of the beach to the very summit of the cliffs , two groups of peasants , one seated beneath the shades , and the other standing on the edge of the sea , round the girl , who was singing , and who held in her hand a chaplet of flowers , which she seemed about to drop into the waves . 
Emily , listening with surprise and attention , distinguished the following invocation delivered in the pure and elegant tongue of Tuscany and accompanied by a few pastoral instruments . 
said Emily , awakening from the pleasing trance , into which the music had fulled her . 
`` But they talked of a sea-nymph , '' said Emily : `` how came these good people to think of a sea-nymph ? '' 
`` O , Signora , '' rejoined Maddelina , mistaking the reason of Emily 's surprise , `` nobody believes in such things , but our old songs tell of them , and , when we are at our sports , we sometimes sing to them , and throw garlands into the sea . '' 
Emily had been early taught to venerate Florence as the seat of literature and of the fine arts ; but , that its taste for classic story should descend to the peasants of the country , occasioned her both surprise and admiration . 
The Arcadian air of the girls next attracted her attention . 
When the song had concluded , several of these girls approached Emily , and , inviting her to sit down among them , offered her , and Maddelina , whom they knew , grapes and figs . 
Emily accepted their courtesy , much pleased with the gentleness and grace of their manners , which appeared to be perfectly natural to them : and when Bertrand , soon after , approached , and was hastily drawing her away , a peasant , holding up a flask , invited him to drink ; a temptation , which Bertrand was seldom very valiant in resisting . 
They sounded gaily ; and the younger peasants formed themselves into a circle , which Emily would readily have joined , had her spirits been in unison with their mirth . 
Maddelina , however , tripped it lightly , and Emily , as she looked on the happy group , lost the sense of her misfortunes in that of a benevolent pleasure . 
But the pensive melancholy of her mind returned , as she sat rather apart from the company , listening to the mellow music , which the breeze softened as it bore it away , and watching the moon , stealing its tremulous light over the waves and on the woody summits of the cliffs , that wound along these Tuscan shores . 
Meanwhile , Bertrand was so well pleased with his first flask , that he very willingly commenced the attack of a second , and it was late before Emily , not without some apprehension , returned to the cottage . 
After this evening , she frequently walked with Maddelina , but was never unattended by Bertrand ; and her mind became by degrees as tranquil as the circumstances of her situation would permit . 
The quiet , in which she was suffered to live , encouraged her to hope , that she was not sent hither with an evil design ; and , had it not appeared probable , that Valancourt was at this time an inhabitant of Udolpho , she would have wished to remain at the cottage , till an opportunity should offer of returning to her native country . 
But , concerning Montoni 's motive for sending her into Tuscany , she was more than ever perplexed , nor could she believe that any consideration for her safety had influenced him on this occasion . 
She had been some time at the cottage , before she recollected , that , in the hurry of leaving Udolpho , she had forgotten the papers committed to her by her late aunt , relative to the Languedoc estates ; but , though this remembrance occasioned her much uneasiness , she had some hope , that , in the obscure place , where they were deposited , they would escape the detection of Montoni . 
When Udolpho was once more left to the quiet possession of Montoni , he dispatched Ugo into Tuscany for Emily , whom he had sent from considerations of her personal safety , to a place of greater security , than a castle , which was , at that time , liable to be overrun by his enemies . 
Tranquillity being once more restored to Udolpho , he was impatient to secure her again under his roof , and had commissioned Ugo to assist Bertrand in guarding her back to the castle . 
Thus compelled to return , Emily bade the kind Maddelina farewell , with regret , and , after about a fortnight 's stay in Tuscany , where she had experienced an interval of quiet , which was absolutely necessary to sustain her long-harassed spirits , began once more to ascend the Apennines , from whose heights she gave a long and sorrowful look to the beautiful country , that extended at their feet , and to the distant Mediterranean , whose waves she had so often wished would bear her back to France . 
The distress she felt , on her return towards the place of her former sufferings , was , however , softened by a conjecture , that Valancourt was there , and she found some degree of comfort in the thought of being near him , notwithstanding the consideration , that he was probably a prisoner . 
It was noon , when she had left the cottage , and the evening was closed , long before she came within the neighbourhood of Udolpho . 
There was a moon , but it shone only at intervals , for the night was cloudy , and , lighted by the torch , which Ugo carried , the travellers paced silently along , Emily musing on her situation , and Bertrand and Ugo anticipating the comforts of a flask of wine and a good fire , for they had perceived for some time the difference between the warm climate of the lowlands of Tuscany and the nipping air of these upper regions . 
Emily was , at length , roused from her reverie by the far-off sound of the castle clock , to which she listened not without some degree of awe , as it rolled away on the breeze . 
Another and another note succeeded , and died in sullen murmur among the mountains : -- to her mournful imagination it seemed a knell measuring out some fateful period for her . 
The road winding round the base of a mountain , they now came within view of the castle , which was shewn in the perspective of the valley by a gleam of moonshine , and then vanished in shade ; while even a transient view of it had awakened the poignancy of Emily 's feelings . 
Its massy and gloomy walls gave her terrible ideas of imprisonment and suffering : yet , as she advanced , some degree of hope mingled with her terror ; for , though this was certainly the residence of Montoni , it was possibly , also , that of Valancourt , and she could not approach a place , where he might be , without experiencing somewhat of the joy of hope . 
They continued to wind along the valley , and , soon after , she saw again the old walls and moon-light towers , rising over the woods : the strong rays enabled her , also , to perceive the ravages , which the siege had made , -- with the broken walls , and shattered battlements , for they were now at the foot of the steep , on which Udolpho stood . 
exclaimed Emily , `` are any of the enemy here , then ? '' 
As they proceeded , the torch threw a gloomy light upon the ground , and far among the recesses of the woods , and Emily feared to look forward , lest some object of horror should meet her eye . 
Ugo holding up the torch , they perceived a steel breast-plate on the ground , which Bertrand raised , and they saw , that it was pierced through , and that the lining was entirely covered with blood ; but upon Emily 's earnest entreaties , that they would proceed , Bertrand , uttering some joke upon the unfortunate person , to whom it had belonged , threw it hard upon the ground , and they passed on . 
At every step she took , Emily feared to see some vestige of death . 
As Ugo held again forth the torch , steel glittered between the fallen trees ; the ground beneath was covered with broken arms , and with the torn vestments of soldiers , whose mangled forms Emily almost expected to see ; and she again entreated her companions to proceed , who were , however , too intent in their examination , to regard her , and she turned her eyes from this desolated scene to the castle above , where she observed lights gliding along the ramparts . 
Presently , the castle clock struck twelve , and then a trumpet sounded , of which Emily enquired the occasion . 
`` I do not remember this trumpet , '' said Emily , `` it is a new custom . '' 
said Emily , as the trumpet sounded again ; and , in the next moment , she heard a faint clash of arms , and then the watch-word passed along the terrace above , and was answered from a distant part of the castle ; after which all was again still . 
She complained of cold , and begged to go on . 
cried Emily , `` what noise was that ? '' 
repeated Emily . 
said he , and he blew a shrill whistle , which signal was answered by another from the soldier on watch ; and the party , then passing forward , soon after emerged from the woods upon the broken road , that led immediately to the castle gates , and Emily saw , with renewed terror , the whole of that stupendous structure . 
said she to herself , `` I am going again into my prison ! '' 
Ugo replied only by a laugh , and then gave some further account of the siege , to which as Emily listened , she was struck by the strong contrast of the present scene with that which had so lately been acted here . 
The shattered condition of one of the towers of the great gates by no means confirmed the valiant account just given by Ugo of the scampering party , who , it was evident , had not only made a stand , but had done much mischief before they took to flight ; for this tower appeared , as far as Emily could judge by the dim moon-light that fell upon it , to be laid open , and the battlements were nearly demolished . 
While she gazed , a light glimmered through one of the lower loop-holes , and disappeared ; but , in the next moment , she perceived through the broken wall , a soldier , with a lamp , ascending the narrow stair-case , that wound within the tower , and , remembering that it was the same she had passed up , on the night , when Barnardine had deluded her with a promise of seeing Madame Montoni , fancy gave her somewhat of the terror she had then suffered . 
She was now very near the gates , over which the soldier having opened the door of the portal-chamber , the lamp he carried gave her a dusky view of that terrible apartment , and she almost sunk under the recollected horrors of the moment , when she had drawn aside the curtain , and discovered the object it was meant to conceal . 
`` Perhaps , '' said she to herself , `` it is now used for a similar purpose ; perhaps , that soldier goes , at this dead hour , to watch over the corpse of his friend ! '' 
The little remains of her fortitude now gave way to the united force of remembered and anticipated horrors , for the melancholy fate of Madame Montoni appeared to foretell her own . 
She considered , that , though the Languedoc estates , if she relinquished them , would satisfy Montoni 's avarice , they might not appease his vengeance , which was seldom pacified but by a terrible sacrifice ; and she even thought , that , were she to resign them , the fear of justice might urge him either to detain her a prisoner , or to take away her life . 
Emily presently heard his steps descending the stairs within , and then the heavy chain fall , and the bolts undraw of a small postern door , which he opened to admit the party . 
He held the lamp low , to shew the step of the gate , and she found herself once more beneath the gloomy arch , and heard the door close , that seemed to shut her from the world for ever . 
In the next moment , she was in the first court of the castle , where she surveyed the spacious and solitary area , with a kind of calm despair ; while the dead hour of the night , the gothic gloom of the surrounding buildings , and the hollow and imperfect echoes , which they returned , as Ugo and the soldier conversed together , assisted to increase the melancholy forebodings of her heart . 
Passing on to the second court , a distant sound broke feebly on the silence , and gradually swelling louder , as they advanced , Emily distinguished voices of revelry and laughter , but they were to her far other than sounds of joy . 
They had now crossed the second court , and reached the hall door , when the soldier , bidding them good night , hastened back to his post ; and , while they waited for admittance , Emily considered how she might avoid seeing Montoni , and retire unnoticed to her former apartment , for she shrunk from the thought of encountering either him , or any of his party , at this hour . 
The uproar within the castle was now so loud , that , though Ugo knocked repeatedly at the hall door , he was not heard by any of the servants , a circumstance , which increased Emily 's alarm , while it allowed her time to deliberate on the means of retiring unobserved ; for , though she might , perhaps , pass up the great stair-case unseen , it was impossible she could find the way to her chamber , without a light , the difficulty of procuring which , and the danger of wandering about the castle , without one , immediately struck her . 
Bertrand had only a torch , and she knew , that the servants never brought a taper to the door , for the hall was sufficiently lighted by the large tripod lamp , which hung in the vaulted roof ; and , while she should wait till Annette could bring a taper , Montoni , or some of his companions , might discover her . 
The door was now opened by Carlo ; and Emily , having requested him to send Annette immediately with a light to the great gallery , where she determined to await her , passed on with hasty steps towards the staircase ; while Bertrand and Ugo , with the torch , followed old Carlo to the servants ' hall , impatient for supper and the warm blaze of a wood fire . 
Emily , lighted only by the feeble rays , which the lamp above threw between the arches of this extensive hall , endeavoured to find her way to the stair-case , now hid in obscurity ; while the shouts of merriment , that burst from a remote apartment , served , by heightening her terror , to increase her perplexity , and she expected , every instant , to see the door of that room open , and Montoni and his companions issue forth . 
Having , at length , reached the stair-case , and found her way to the top , she seated herself on the last stair , to await the arrival of Annette ; for the profound darkness of the gallery deterred her from proceeding farther , and , while she listened for her footstep , she heard only distant sounds of revelry , which rose in sullen echoes from among the arcades below . 
Annette not yet appearing , Emily now concluded , that she was gone to bed , and that nobody chose to call her up ; and the prospect , that presented itself , of passing the night in darkness , in this place , or in some other equally forlorn -LRB- for she knew it would be impracticable to find her way through the intricacies of the galleries to her chamber -RRB- , drew tears of mingled terror and despondency from her eyes . 
While thus she sat , she fancied she heard again an odd sound from the gallery , and she listened , scarcely daring to breathe , but the increasing voices below overcame every other sound . 
Soon after , she heard Montoni and his companions burst into the hall , who spoke , as if they were much intoxicated , and seemed to be advancing towards the stair-case . 
She now remembered , that they must come this way to their chamber , and , forgetting all the terrors of the gallery , hurried towards it with an intention of secreting herself in some of the passages , that opened beyond , and of endeavouring , when the Signors were retired , to find her way to her own room , or to that of Annette , which was in a remote part of the castle . 
Verezzi and Bertolini now desisted from the irenquiries , and sprang to the staircase together , while Emily , who , during this discourse , had trembled so excessively , that she had with difficulty supported herself , seemed inspired with new strength , the moment she heard the bound of their steps , and ran along the gallery , dark as it was , with the fleetness of a fawn . 
But , long before she reached its extremity , the light , which Verezzi carried , flashed upon the walls ; both appeared , and , instantly perceiving Emily , pursued her . 
At this moment , Bertolini , whose steps , though swift , were not steady , and whose impatience overcame what little caution he had hitherto used , stumbled , and fell at his length . 
The lamp fell with him , and was presently expiring on the floor ; but Verezzi , regardless of saving it , seized the advantage this accident gave him over his rival , and followed Emily , to whom , however , the light had shown one of the passages that branched from the gallery , and she instantly turned into it . 
Verezzi could just discern the way she had taken , and this he pursued ; but the sound of her steps soon sunk in distance , while he , less acquainted with the passage , was obliged to proceed through the dark , with caution , lest he should fall down a flight of steps , such as in this extensive old castle frequently terminated an avenue . 
This passage at length brought Emily to the corridor , into which her own chamber opened , and , not hearing any footstep , she paused to take breath , and consider what was the safest design to be adopted . 
She had followed this passage , merely because it was the first that appeared , and now that she had reached the end of it , was as perplexed as before . 
Whither to go , or how further to find her way in the dark , she knew not ; she was aware only that she must not seek her apartment , for there she would certainly be sought , and her danger increased every instant , while she remained near it . 
Her spirits and her breath , however , were so much exhausted , that she was compelled to rest , for a few minutes , at the end of the passage , and still she heard no steps approaching . 
As thus she stood , light glimmered under an opposite door of the gallery , and , from its situation , she knew , that it was the door of that mysterious chamber , where she had made a discovery so shocking , that she never remembered it but with the utmost horror . 
That there should be light in this chamber , and at this hour , excited her strong surprise , and she felt a momentary terror concerning it , which did not permit her to look again , for her spirits were now in such a state of weakness , that she almost expected to see the door slowly open , and some horrible object appear at it . 
Still she listened for a step along the passage , and looked up it , where , not a ray of light appearing , she concluded , that Verezzi had gone back for the lamp ; and , believing that he would shortly be there , she again considered which way she should go , or rather which way she could find in the dark . 
A faint ray still glimmered under the opposite door , but so great , and , perhaps , so just was her horror of that chamber , that she would not again have tempted its secrets , though she had been certain of obtaining the light so important to her safety . 
She was still breathing with difficulty , and resting at the end of the passage , when she heard a rustling sound , and then a low voice , so very near her , that it seemed close to her ear ; but she had presence of mind to check her emotions , and to remain quite still ; in the next moment , she perceived it to be the voice of Verezzi , who did not appear to know , that she was there , but to have spoken to himself . 
`` The air is fresher here , '' said he : `` this should be the corridor . '' 
Perhaps , he was one of those heroes , whose courage can defy an enemy better than darkness , and he tried to rally his spirits with the sound of his own voice . 
However this might be , he turned to the right , and proceeded , with the same stealing steps , towards Emily 's apartment , apparently forgetting , that , in darkness , she could easily elude his search , even in her chamber ; and , like an intoxicated person , he followed pertinaciously the one idea , that had possessed his imagination . 
The moment she heard his steps steal away , she left her station and moved softly to the other end of the corridor , determined to trust again to chance , and to quit it by the first avenue she could find ; but , before she could effect this , light broke upon the walls of the gallery , and , looking back , she saw Verezzi crossing it towards her chamber . 
She now glided into a passage , that opened on the left , without , as she thought , being perceived ; but , in the next instant , another light , glimmering at the further end of this passage , threw her into new terror . 
While she stopped and hesitated which way to go , the pause allowed her to perceive , that it was Annette , who advanced , and she hurried to meet her : but her imprudence again alarmed Emily , on perceiving whom , she burst into a scream of joy , and it was some minutes , before she could be prevailed with to be silent , or to release her mistress from the ardent clasp , in which she held her . 
When , at length , Emily made Annette comprehend her danger , they hurried towards Annette 's room , which was in a distant part of the castle . 
cried Emily , `` we are pursued ; that was the echo of steps ! '' 
`` Then there is the greater necessity for us to be silent , '' said Emily : `` pr ` ythee say no more , till we reach your chamber . '' 
Here , at length , they arrived , without interruption , and , Annette having fastened the door , Emily sat down on her little bed , to recover breath and composure . 
To her enquiry , whether Valancourt was among the prisoners in the castle , Annette replied , that she had not been able to hear , but that she knew there were several persons confined . 
`` Well , Annette , '' said Emily , `` and how have affairs gone on , since the siege ? '' 
-- `` Surely , Annette , '' said Emily starting , `` I heard a noise : listen . '' 
Emily now laid herself down on the mattress , and desired Annette to leave the lamp burning on the hearth ; having done which , the latter placed herself beside Emily , who , however , was not suffered to sleep , for she again thought she heard a noise from the passage ; and Annette was again trying to convince her , that it was only the wind , when footsteps were distinctly heard near the door . 
Annette was now starting from the bed , but Emily prevailed with her to remain there , and listened with her in a state of terrible expectation . 
`` For heaven 's sake , Annette , do not answer , '' said Emily softly , `` remain quite still ; but I fear we must extinguish the lamp , or its glare will betray us . '' 
cried she suddenly , `` it is only Ludovico , '' She rose to open the door , but Emily prevented her , till they should be more certain , that it was he alone ; with whom Annette , at length , talked for some time , and learned , that he was come to enquire after herself , whom he had let out of her room to go to Emily , and that he was now returned to lock her in again . 
Emily , fearful of being overheard , if they conversed any longer through the door , consented that it should be opened , and a young man appeared , whose open countenance confirmed the favourable opinion of him , which his care of Annette had already prompted her to form . 
Emily was much soothed by this proposal ; and Ludovico , having lighted his lamp , went to his station , while she , once more , endeavoured to repose on her mattress . 
But a variety of interests pressed upon her attention , and prevented sleep . 
She thought much on what Annette had told her of the dissolute manners of Montoni and his associates , and more of his present conduct towards herself , and of the danger , from which she had just escaped . 
On the next morning , Emily had a long conversation with Ludovico , in which she heard circumstances concerning the castle , and received hints of the designs of Montoni , that considerably increased her alarms . 
On expressing her surprise , that Ludovico , who seemed to be so sensible of the evils of his situation , should continue in it , he informed her , that it was not his intention to do so , and she then ventured to ask him , if he would assist her to escape from the castle . 
Ludovico assured her of his readiness to attempt this , but strongly represented the difficulty of the enterprise , and the certain destruction which must ensue , should Montoni overtake them , before they had passed the mountains ; he , however , promised to be watchful of every circumstance , that might contribute to the success of the attempt , and to think upon some plan of departure . 
Emily now confided to him the name of Valancourt , and begged he would enquire for such a person among the prisoners in the castle ; for the faint hope , which this conversation awakened , made her now recede from her resolution of an immediate compromise with Montoni . 
She determined , if possible , to delay this , till she heard further from Ludovico , and , if his designs were found to be impracticable , to resign the estates at once . 
Her thoughts were on this subject , when Montoni , who was now recovered from the intoxication of the preceding night , sent for her , and she immediately obeyed the summons . 
Emily related to him some circumstances of her alarm , and entreated his protection from a repetition of them . 
His open declaration , that he would only conditionally protect her , while she remained a prisoner in the castle , shewed Emily the necessity of an immediate compliance with his terms ; but she first demanded , whether he would permit her immediately to depart , if she gave up her claim to the contested estates . 
The deliberate villany , with which he violated the solemn engagement he had just entered into , shocked Emily as much , as the certainty , that she had made a fruitless sacrifice , and must still remain his prisoner . 
She had no words to express what she felt , and knew , that it would have been useless , if she had . 
As she looked piteously at Montoni , he turned away , and at the same time desired she would withdraw to her apartment ; but , unable to leave the room , she sat down in a chair near the door , and sighed heavily . 
She had neither words nor tears . 
`` I dare not go , sir , '' said she , `` where I shall be liable to the intrusion of Signor Verezzi . '' 
`` You have promised , sir , '' -- replied Emily , after some hesitation . 
`` You will recollect your former promise , Signor , '' said Emily , trembling , `` and may determine for me , whether I ought to rely upon this . '' 
Emily left the room , and moved slowly into the hall , where the fear of meeting Verezzi , or Bertolini , made her quicken her steps , though she could scarcely support herself ; and soon after she reached once more her own apartment . 
Having looked fearfully round her , to examine if any person was there , and having searched every part of it , she fastened the door , and sat down by one of the casements . 
Here , while she looked out for some hope to support her fainting spirits , which had been so long harassed and oppressed , that , if she had not now struggled much against misfortune , they would have left her , perhaps , for ever , she endeavoured to believe , that Montoni did really intend to permit her return to France as soon as he had secured her property , and that he would , in the mean time , protect her from insult ; but her chief hope rested with Ludovico , who , she doubted not , would be zealous in her cause , though he seemed almost to despair of success in it . 
One circumstance , however , she had to rejoice in . 
Her prudence , or rather her fears , had saved her from mentioning the name of Valancourt to Montoni , which she was several times on the point of doing , before she signed the paper , and of stipulating for his release , if he should be really a prisoner in the castle . 
Had she done this , Montoni 's jealous fears would now probably have loaded Valancourt with new severities , and have suggested the advantage of holding him a captive for life . 
Thus passed the melancholy day , as she had before passed many in this same chamber . 
When night drew on , she would have withdrawn herself to Annette 's bed , had not a particular interest inclined her to remain in this chamber , in spite of her fears ; for , when the castle should be still , and the customary hour arrived , she determined to watch for the music , which she had formerly heard . 
Though its sounds might not enable her positively to determine , whether Valancourt was there , they would perhaps strengthen her opinion that he was , and impart the comfort , so necessary to her present support . 
-- She hardly dared to suffer her thoughts to glance that way , but waited , with impatient expectation , the approaching hour . 
Emily heard , as formerly , the sentinels pass along the terrace to their posts , and , looking out from her casement , observed , that the watch was doubled ; a precaution , which appeared necessary enough , when she threw her eyes on the walls , and saw their shattered condition . 
The well-known sounds of the soldiers ' march , and of their distant voices , which passed her in the wind , and were lost again , recalled to her memory the melancholy sensations she had suffered , when she formerly heard the same sounds ; and occasioned almost involuntary comparisons between her present , and her late situation . 
But this was no subject for congratulation , and she wisely checked the course of her thoughts , while , as the hour was not yet come , in which she had been accustomed to hear the music , she closed the casement , and endeavoured to await it in patience . 
The door of the stair-case she tried to secure , as usual , with some of the furniture of the room ; but this expedient her fears now represented to her to be very inadequate to the power and perseverance of Verezzi ; and she often looked at a large and heavy chest , that stood in the chamber , with wishes that she and Annette had strength enough to move it . 
While she blamed the long stay of this girl , who was still with Ludovico and some other of the servants , she trimmed her wood fire , to make the room appear less desolate , and sat down beside it with a book , which her eyes perused , while her thoughts wandered to Valancourt , and her own misfortunes . 
As she sat thus , she thought , in a pause of the wind , she distinguished music , and went to the casement to listen , but the loud swell of the gust overcame every other sound . 
When the wind sunk again , she heard distinctly , in the deep pause that succeeded , the sweet strings of a lute ; but again the rising tempest bore away the notes , and again was succeeded by a solemn pause . 
Emily , trembling with hope and fear , opened her casement to listen , and to try whether her own voice could be heard by the musician ; for to endure any longer this state of torturing suspense concerning Valancourt , seemed to be utterly impossible . 
There was a kind of breathless stillness in the chambers , that permitted her to distinguish from below the tender notes of the very lute she had formerly heard , and with it , a plaintive voice , made sweeter by the low rustling sound , that now began to creep along the wood-tops , till it was lost in the rising wind . 
Emily listened , with mingled awe and expectation , hope and fear ; and again the melting sweetness of the lute was heard , and the same solemn-breathing voice . 
Convinced that these came from an apartment underneath , she leaned far out of her window , that she might discover whether any light was there ; but the casements below , as well as those above , were sunk so deep in the thick walls of the castle , that she could not see them , or even the faint ray , that probably glimmered through their bars . 
She then ventured to call ; but the wind bore her voice to the other end of the terrace , and then the music was heard as before , in the pause of the gust . 
Suddenly , she thought she heard a noise in her chamber , and she drew herself within the casement ; but , in a moment after , distinguishing Annette 's voice at the door , she concluded it was her she had heard before , and she let her in . 
This was the ballad Emily had heard on a former night , though not the one she had first listened to from the fishing-house in Gascony . 
Annette , do not speak so loud , '' said Emily , `` we may be overheard . '' 
`` No , '' replied Emily mournfully , `` but by somebody , who may report us to the Signor . 
`` I never happened to hear the Chevalier sing , Mademoiselle , '' replied Annette , who , as Emily was disappointed to perceive , had no stronger reason for concluding this to be Valancourt , than that the musician must be a Frenchman . 
Soon after , she heard the song of the fishing-house , and distinguished her own name , which was repeated so distinctly , that Annette had heard it also . 
while Emily endeavoured to check her , but she repeated the call more loudly than before , and the lute and the voice suddenly stopped . 
Emily listened , for some time , in a state of intolerable suspense ; but , no answer being returned , `` It does not signify , mademoiselle , '' said Annette ; `` it is the Chevalier , and I will speak to him . '' 
`` No , Annette , '' said Emily , `` I think I will speak myself ; if it is he , he will know my voice , and speak again . '' 
After another pause , Emily called again ; and again they heard a voice , but as faintly as before ; and they perceived , that there were other circumstances , besides the strength , and direction of the wind , to contend with ; for the great depth , at which the casements were fixed in the castle walls , contributed , still more than the distance , to prevent articulated sounds from being understood , though general ones were easily heard . 
Emily , however , ventured to believe , from the circumstance of her voice alone having been answered , that the stranger was Valancourt , as well as that he knew her , and she gave herself up to speechless joy . 
-- She renewed her calls , but received no answer ; and Emily , fearing , that a further attempt , which certainly was , at present , highly dangerous , might expose them to the guards of the castle , while it could not perhaps terminate her suspense , insisted on Annette 's dropping the enquiry for this night ; though she determined herself to question Ludovico , on the subject , in the morning , more urgently than she had yet done . 
Emily , attended by Annette , continued at the casement , for some time , but all remained still ; they heard neither lute or voice again , and Emily was now as much oppressed by anxious joy , as she lately was by a sense of her misfortunes . 
With hasty steps she paced the room , now half calling on Valancourt 's name , then suddenly stopping , and now going to the casement and listening , where , however , she heard nothing but the solemn waving of the woods . 
Sometimes her impatience to speak to Ludovico prompted her to send Annette to call him ; but a sense of the impropriety of this at midnight restrained her . 
She , at length , mentioned Signor Verezzi , and her fear , left he should enter the chamber by the staircase door . 
Emily had forgotten , till this moment , that such a person existed as Verezzi , and all the danger that had appeared to threaten her ; but the mention of his name renewed her alarm , and she remembered the old chest , that she had wished to place against the door , which she now , with Annette , attempted to move , but it was so heavy , that they could not lift it from the floor , `` What is in this great old chest , mademoiselle , '' said Annette , `` that makes it so weighty ? '' 
Emily having replied , `` that she found it in the chamber , when she first came to the castle , and had never examined it , '' -- `` Then I will , ma'amselle , '' said Annette , and she tried to lift the lid ; but this was held by a lock , for which she had no key , and which , indeed , appeared , from its peculiar construction , to open with a spring . 
Emily looked out upon the dusky woods , and on the twilight mountains , just stealing on the eye , and saw the whole scene , after the storm , lying in profound stillness , the woods motionless , and the clouds above , through which the dawn trembled , scarcely appearing to move along the heavens . 
Several of her succeeding days passed in suspense , for Ludovico could only learn from the soldiers , that there was a prisoner in the apartment , described to him by Emily , and that he was a Frenchman , whom they had taken in one of their skirmishes , with a party of his countrymen . 
During this interval , Emily escaped the persecutions of Bertolini , and Verezzi , by confining herself to her apartment ; except that sometimes , in an evening , she ventured to walk in the adjoining corridor . 
Montoni appeared to respect his last promise , though he had prophaned his first ; for to his protection only could she attribute her present repose ; and in this she was now so secure , that she did not wish to leave the castle , till she could obtain some certainty concerning Valancourt ; for which she waited , indeed , without any sacrifice of her own comfort , since no circumstance had occurred to make her escape probable . 
On the fourth day , Ludovico informed her , that he had hopes of being admitted to the presence of the prisoner ; it being the turn of a soldier , with whom he had been for some time familiar , to attend him on the following night . 
Emily awaited the result in her own apartment , Ludovico having promised to accompany Annette to the corridor , in the evening ; where , after several hours impatiently counted , he arrived . 
Emily , having then uttered the name of Valancourt , could articulate no more , but hesitated in trembling expectation . 
she exclaimed . 
Valancourt , '' said Annette , and looked impatiently at Ludovico , who understood her look , and replied to Emily : `` Yes , lady , the Chevalier does , indeed , remember you , and , I am sure , has a very great regard for you , and I made bold to say you had for him . 
interrupted Emily : `` is he not melancholy and ill with this long confinement ? '' 
said Emily . 
Ludovico then drew forth a miniature from his bosom , which Emily received with a trembling hand , and perceived to be a portrait of herself -- the very picture , which her mother had lost so strangely in the fishing-house at La Vallée . 
Tears of mingled joy and tenderness flowed to her eyes , while Ludovico proceeded -- `` Tell your lady , said the Chevalier , as he gave me the picture , ` that this has been my companion , and only solace in all my misfortunes . 
said Emily : `` but , indeed , I do not now possess the means . 
`` I need not bid you remember , Ludovico , '' resumed Emily , `` how very much interested I am in your seeing the Chevalier soon ; and , when you do so , tell him , that I have received the picture , and , with the sentiments he wished . 
Tell him I have suffered much , and still suffer -- '' She paused . 
`` Most certainly I will , '' replied Emily . 
`` That must depend upon circumstances , '' returned Emily . 
`` You may mention these circumstances to the Chevalier , Ludovico , '' said she , checking the flippancy of Annette , `` and leave them to his judgment and opportunity . 
Having then wished her good night , Ludovico descended the staircase , and Emily retired to rest , but not to sleep , for joy now rendered her as wakeful , as she had ever been from grief . 
Montoni and his castle had all vanished from her mind , like the frightful vision of a necromancer , and she wandered , once more , in fairy scenes of unfading happiness : A week elapsed , before Ludovico again visited the prison ; for the sentinels , during that period , were men , in whom he could not confide , and he feared to awaken curiosity , by asking to see their prisoner . 
In this interval , he communicated to Emily terrific reports of what was passing in the castle ; of riots , quarrels , and of carousals more alarming than either ; while from some circumstances , which he mentioned , she not only doubted , whether Montoni meant ever to release her , but greatly feared , that he had designs , concerning her , -- such as she had formerly dreaded . 
Her name was frequently mentioned in the conversations , which Bertolini and Verezzi held together , and , at those times , they were frequently in contention . 
Montoni had lost large sums to Verezzi , so that there was a dreadful possibility of his designing her to be a substitute for the debt ; but , as she was ignorant , that he had formerly encouraged the hopes of Bertolini also , concerning herself , after the latter had done him some signal service , she knew not how to account for these contentions between Bertolini and Verezzi . 
The cause of them , however , appeared to be of little consequence , for she thought she saw destruction approaching in many forms , and her entreaties to Ludovico to contrive an escape and to see the prisoner again , were more urgent than ever . 
At length , he informed her , that he had again visited the Chevalier , who had directed him to confide in the guard of the prison , from whom he had already received some instances of kindness , and who had promised to permit his going into the castle for half an hour , on the ensuing night , when Montoni and his companions should be engaged at their carousals . 
Emily was now so much agitated by the near prospect of meeting Valancourt , that it was some time , before she could give any answer to Ludovico , or consider of the place of meeting ; when she did , she saw none , that promised so much security , as the corridor , near her own apartment , which she was checked from leaving , by the apprehension of meeting any of Montoni 's guests , on their way to their rooms ; and she dismissed the scruples , which delicacy opposed , now that a serious danger was to be avoided by encountering them . 
It was settled , therefore , that the Chevalier should meet her in the corridor , at that hour of the night , which Ludovico , who was to be upon the watch , should judge safest : and Emily , as may be imagined , passed this interval in a tumult of hope and joy , anxiety and impatience . 
Never , since her residence in the castle , had she watched , with so much pleasure , the sun set behind the mountains , and twilight shade , and darkness veil the scene , as on this evening . 
She counted the notes of the great clock , and listened to the steps of the sentinels , as they changed the watch , only to rejoice , that another hour was gone . 
said she , `` after all I have suffered ; after our long , long separation , when I thought I should never -- never see you more -- we are still to meet again ! 
These were moments , when it was impossible for her to feel emotions of regret , or melancholy , for any ordinary interests ; -- even the reflection , that she had resigned the estates , which would have been a provision for herself and Valancourt for life , threw only a light and transient shade upon her spirits . 
The idea of Valancourt , and that she should see him so soon , alone occupied her heart . 
At length the clock struck twelve ; she opened the door to listen , if any noise was in the castle , and heard only distant shouts of riot and laughter , echoed feebly along the gallery . 
She guessed , that the Signor and his guests were at the banquet . 
`` They are now engaged for the night , '' said she ; `` and Valancourt will soon be here . '' 
Having softly closed the door , she paced the room with impatient steps , and often went to the casement to listen for the lute ; but all was silent , and , her agitation every moment increasing , she was at length unable to support herself , and sat down by the window . 
Annette , whom she detained , was , in the meantime , as loquacious as usual ; but Emily heard scarcely any thing she said , and having at length risen to the casement , she distinguished the chords of the lute , struck with an expressive hand , and then the voice , she had formerly listened to , accompanied it . 
Emily wept in doubtful joy and tenderness ; and , when the strain ceased , she considered it as a signal , that Valancourt was about to leave the prison . 
Soon after , she heard steps in the corridor ; -- they were the light , quick steps of hope ; she could scarcely support herself , as they approached , but opening the door of the apartment , she advanced to meet Valancourt , and , in the next moment , sunk in the arms of a stranger . 
His voice -- his countenance instantly convinced her , and she fainted away . 
On reviving , she found herself supported by the stranger , who was watching over her recovery , with a countenance of ineffable tenderness and anxiety . 
She had no spirits for reply , or enquiry ; she asked no questions , but burst into tears , and disengaged herself from his arms ; when the expression of his countenance changed to surprise and disappointment , and he turned to Ludovico , for an explanation ; Annette soon gave the information , which Ludovico could not . 
Emily raised her head . 
Madam , '' added he then , addressing Emily in French , `` will you permit me to apologize for the pain I have occasioned you , and to explain to you alone my name , and the circumstance , which has led me into this error ? 
Emily tried to compose her spirits ; yet she hesitated to grant his request . 
Emily now interrupted him . 
I must consider myself honoured by your good opinion , but '' -- and she hesitated , -- `` the mistake of this evening makes it unnecessary for me to say more . '' 
`` You deserve them already , sir , '' said Emily ; `` the wish deserves my warmest thanks . 
-- Monsieur Du Pont took her hand , which she but feebly attempted to withdraw , and pressed it respectfully to his lips . 
As he said this , Emily heard a noise from her apartment , and , turning round , saw the door from the staircase open , and a man rush into her chamber . 
While they struggled in each other 's grasp , Emily , followed by Annette , ran further into the corridor , calling on Ludovico , who was , however , gone from the stair-case , and , as she advanced , terrified and uncertain what to do , a distant noise , that seemed to arise from the hall , reminded her of the danger she was incurring ; and , sending Annette forward in search of Ludovico , she returned to the spot where Du Pont and Verezzi were still struggling for victory . 
She threw herself in a chair , and supplicated them to desist from further violence , till , at length , Du Pont forced Verezzi to the floor , where he lay stunned by the violence of his fall ; and she then entreated Du Pont to escape from the room , before Montoni , or his party , should appear ; but he still refused to leave her unprotected ; and , while Emily , now more terrified for him , than for herself , enforced the entreaty , they heard steps ascending the private stair-case . 
cried she , `` these are Montoni 's people . '' 
Du Pont made no reply , but supported Emily , while , with a steady , though eager , countenance , he awaited their appearance , and , in the next moment , Ludovico , alone , mounted the landing-place . 
Emily enquired what had occurred , and whither they were to go ? 
She immediately followed him , accompanied by Mons . 
Du Pont , down the staircase , and along a vaulted passage , when suddenly she recollected Annette , and enquired for her . 
Emily followed , trembling still more , than before she had understood , that her escape from the castle depended upon the present moment ; while Du Pont supported her , and endeavoured , as they passed along , to cheer her spirits . 
`` Take care of the light , '' cried Emily , `` you go so fast , that the air will extinguish it . '' 
As they advanced , confused and tumultuous sounds , that seemed to come from the inner court , alarmed Emily . 
he added , as they approached the small door , that opened into the outer court , `` if you will remain here a moment , I will go to see whether the gates are open , and any body is in the way . 
Saying this , he stepped out upon the court , and they closed the door , listening anxiously to his departing steps . 
No voice , however , was heard in the court , which he was crossing , though a confusion of many voices yet issued from the inner one . 
`` We shall soon be beyond the walls , '' said Du Pont softly to Emily , `` support yourself a little longer , Madam , and all will be well . '' 
exclaimed Emily , `` what is to become of us ? '' 
They listened again , and then perceived , that Ludovico was talking with a sentinel , whose voices were heard also by Emily 's favourite dog , that had followed her from the chamber , and now barked loudly . 
replied Emily . 
Du Pont , however , caught him up , and , again listening to what was going on without , they heard Ludovico say , `` I 'll watch the gates the while . '' 
so they are , '' said the soldier , and again ran off , while Ludovico , once more at liberty , hastened to the door of the passage , where Emily was sinking under the anxiety this long discourse had occasioned ; but , on his telling them the court was clear , they followed him to the gates , without waiting another instant , yet not before he had seized two horses , that had strayed from the second court , and were picking a scanty meal among the grass , which grew between the pavement of the first . 
They passed , without interruption , the dreadful gates , and took the road that led down among the woods , Emily , Monsieur Du Pont and Annette on foot , and Ludovico , who was mounted on one horse , leading the other . 
Having reached them , they stopped , while Emily and Annette were placed on horseback with their two protectors , when , Ludovico leading the way , they set off as fast as the broken road , and the feeble light , which a rising moon threw among the foliage , would permit . 
Emily was so much astonished by this sudden departure , that she scarcely dared to believe herself awake ; and she yet much doubted whether this adventure would terminate in escape , -- a doubt , which had too much probability to justify it ; for , before they quitted the woods , they heard shouts in the wind , and , on emerging from them , saw lights moving quickly near the castle above . 
Du Pont whipped his horse , and with some difficulty compelled him to go faster . 
Having given his own horse a lash , they now both set off on a full gallop ; and , when they again looked back , the lights were so distant as scarcely to be discerned , and the voices were sunk into silence . 
Thither Du Pont meant to attend Emily , if he should learn , that the regiment he had accompanied into Italy , was returned to his native country . 
They were now in the road , which Emily had travelled with Ugo and Bertrand ; but Ludovico , who was the only one of the party , acquainted with the passes of these mountains , said , that , a little further on , a bye-road , branching from this , would lead them down into Tuscany with very little difficulty ; and that , at a few leagues distance , was a small town , where necessaries could be procured for their journey . 
-- Emily 's mind , especially , was sunk , after the various emotions it had suffered , into a kind of musing stillness , which the reposing beauty of the surrounding scene and the creeping murmur of the night-breeze among the foliage above contributed to prolong . 
She thought of Valancourt and of France , with hope , and she would have thought of them with joy , had not the first events of this evening harassed her spirits too much , to permit her now to feel so lively a sensation . 
Meanwhile , Emily was alone the object of Du Pont 's melancholy consideration ; yet , with the despondency he suffered , as he mused on his recent disappointment , was mingled a sweet pleasure , occasioned by her presence , though they did not now exchange a single word . 
Annette thought of this wonderful escape , of the bustle in which Montoni and his people must be , now that their flight was discovered ; of her native country , whither she hoped she was returning , and of her marriage with Ludovico , to which there no longer appeared any impediment , for poverty she did not consider such . 
Ludovico , on his part , congratulated himself , on having rescued his Annette and Signora Emily from the danger , that had surrounded them ; on his own liberation from people , whose manners he had long detested ; on the freedom he had given to Monsieur Du Pont ; on his prospect of happiness with the object of his affections , and not a little on the address , with which he had deceived the sentinel , and conducted the whole of this affair . 
At length , lights were perceived twinkling on the side of a mountain , and Ludovico had no doubt , that they proceeded from the town he had mentioned , while his companions , satisfied by this assurance , sunk again into silence . 
This remark produced a serious enquiry , which ended in as serious an embarrassment , for Du Pont had been rifled of nearly all his money , when he was taken prisoner ; the remainder he had given to the sentinel , who had enabled him occasionally to leave his prison-chamber ; and Ludovico , who had for some time found a difficulty , in procuring any part of the wages due to him , had now scarcely cash sufficient to procure necessary refreshment at the first town , in which they should arrive . 
It was not without some difficulty , that they there found a house , which could afford shelter for themselves and their horses ; and Emily desired they might not rest longer than was necessary for refreshment . 
Her appearance excited some surprise ; for she was without a hat , having had time only to throw on her veil before she left the castle , a circumstance , that compelled her to regret again the want of money , without which it was impossible to procure this necessary article of dress . 
Ludovico , on examining his purse , found it even insufficient to supply present refreshment , and Du Pont , at length , ventured to inform the landlord , whose countenance was simple and honest , of their exact situation , and requested , that he would assist them to pursue their journey ; a purpose , which he promised to comply with , as far as he was able , when he learned that they were prisoners escaping from Montoni , whom he had too much reason to hate . 
But , though he consented to lend them fresh horses to carry them to the next town , he was too poor himself to trust them with money , and they were again lamenting their poverty , when Ludovico , who had been with his tired horses to the hovel , which served for a stable , entered the room , half frantic with joy , in which his auditors soon participated . 
On removing the saddle from one of the horses , he had found beneath it a small bag , containing , no doubt , the booty of one of the condottieri , who had returned from a plundering excursion , just before Ludovico left the castle , and whose horse having strayed from the inner court , while his master was engaged in drinking , had brought away the treasure , which the russian had considered the reward of his exploit . 
On counting over this , Du Pont found , that it would be more than sufficient to carry them all to France , where he now determined to accompany Emily , whether he should obtain intelligence of his regiment , or not ; for , though he had as much confidence in the integrity of Ludovico , as his small knowledge of him allowed , he could not endure the thought of committing her to his care for the voyage ; nor , perhaps , had he resolution enough to deny himself the dangerous pleasure , which he might derive from her presence . 
He now consulted them , concerning the sea-port , to which they should direct their way , and Ludovico , better informed of the geography of the country , said , that Leghorn was the nearest port of consequence , which Du Pont knew also to be the most likely of any in Italy to assist their plan , since from thence vessels of all nations were continually departing . 
Emily , having purchased a little straw hat , such as was worn by the peasant girls of Tuscany , and some other little necessary equipments for the journey , and the travellers , having exchanged their tired horses for others better able to carry them , re-commenced their joyous way , as the sun was rising over the mountains , and , after travelling through this romantic country , for several hours , began to descend into the vale of Arno . 
And here Emily beheld all the charms of sylvan and pastoral landscape united , adorned with the elegant villas of the Florentine nobles , and diversified with the various riches of cultivation . 
At a distance , in the east , Emily discovered Florence , with its towers rising on the brilliant horizon , and its luxuriant plain , spreading to the feet of the Apennines , speckled with gardens and magnificent villas , or coloured with groves of ; orange and lemon , with vines , corn , and plantations of olives and mulberry ; while , to the west , the vale opened to the waters of the Mediterranean , so distant , that they were known only by a blueish line , that appeared upon the horizon , and by the light marine vapour , which just stained the æther above . 
With a full heart , Emily hailed the waves , that were to bear her back to her native country , the remembrance of which , however , brought with it a pang ; for she had there no home to receive , no parents to welcome her , but was going , like a forlorn pilgrim , to weep over the sad spot , where he , who was her father , lay interred . 
Nor were her spirits cheered , when she considered how long it would probably be before she should see Valancourt , who might be stationed with his regiment in a distant part of France , and that , when they did meet , it would be only to lament the successful villany of Montoni ; yet , still she would have felt inexpressible delight at the thought of being once more in the same country with Valancourt , had it even been certain , that she could not see him . 
The travellers , seated under the shade of a pine and cypress grove and on turf , enriched with such a profusion of fragrant flowers , as Emily had scarcely ever seen , even among the Pyrenées , took their simple repast , and viewed , with new delight , beneath the dark umbrage of gigantic pines , the glowing landscape stretching to the sea . 
Emily and Du Pont gradually became thoughtful and silent ; but Annette was all joy and loquacity , and Ludovico was gay , without forgetting the respectful distance , which was due to his companions . 
The repast being over , Du Pont recommended Emily to endeavour to sleep , during these sultry hours , and , desiring the servants would do the same , said he would watch the while ; but Ludovico wished to spare him this trouble ; and Emily and Annette , wearied with travelling , tried to repose , while he stood guard with his trombone . 
When Emily , refreshed by slumber , awoke , she found the sentinel asleep on his post and Du Pont awake , but lost in melancholy thought . 
As the sun was yet too high to allow them to continue their journey , and as it was necessary , that Ludovico , after the toils and trouble he had suffered , should finish his sleep , Emily took this opportunity of enquiring by what accident Du Pont became Montoni 's prisoner , and he , pleased with the interest this enquiry expressed and with the excuse it gave him for talking to her of himself , immediately answered her curiosity . 
Emily now listened , with very anxious attention , to the narrative of Du Pont , who proceeded : `` In granting this indulgence , he knew , that he had nothing to apprehend from a chance of my escaping from a castle , which was vigilantly guarded , and the nearest terrace of which rose over a perpendicular rock ; he shewed me also , '' continued Du Pont , `` a door concealed in the cedar wainscot of the apartment where I was confined , which he instructed me how to open ; and which , leading into a passage , formed within the thickness of the wall , that extended far along the castle , finally opened in an obscure corner of the eastern rampart . 
Emily , remembering the figure that had formerly appeared on the terrace , and which had occasioned her so much anxiety , exclaimed , `` It was you then , Monsieur Du Pont , who occasioned me much foolish terror ; my spirits were , at that time , so much weakened by long suffering , that they took alarm at every hint . '' 
Du Pont , after lamenting , that he had occasioned her any apprehension , added , `` As I rested on the wall , opposite to your casement , the consideration of your melancholy situation and of my own called from me involuntary sounds of lamentation , which drew you , I fancy , to the casement ; I saw there a person , whom I believed to be you . 
`` Yes , '' said Emily , with an involuntary sigh , `` you was right indeed . '' 
said Emily ! 
`` I have , sir , '' replied Emily , `` and I perceive , that you doubt it . '' 
said Emily . 
`` I remember perfectly to have heard of the conversation you mention , '' said Emily ; `` it spread a general alarm among Montoni 's people , and I will own I was weak enough to partake of it . '' 
Monsieur Du Pont and Emily thus continued to converse of Montoni , and then of France , and of the plan of their voyage ; when Emily told him , that it was her intention to retire to a convent in Languedoc , where she had been formerly treated . 
with much kindness , and from thence to write to her relation Monsieur Quesnel , and inform him of her conduct . 
There , she designed to wait , till La Vallée should again be her own , whither she hoped her income would some time permit her to return ; for Du Pont now taught her to expect , that the estate , of which Montoni had attempted to defraud her , was not irrecoverably lost , and he again congratulated her on her escape from Montoni , who , he had not a doubt , meant to have detained her for life . 
The possibility of recovering her aunt 's estates for Valancourt and herself lighted up a joy in Emily 's heart , such as she had not known for many months ; but she endeavoured to conceal this from Monsieur Du Pont , left it should lead him to a painful remembrance of his rival . 
As they approached it , the vale expanded into a plain , variegated with vineyards , corn , olives and mulberry groves ; but it was late , before they reached its gates , where Emily was surprised to hear the busy sound of footsteps and the tones of musical instruments , as well as to see the lively groups , that filled the streets , and she almost fancied herself again at Venice ; but here was no moon-light sea -- no gay gondolas , dashing the waves , -- no Palladian palaces , to throw enchantment over the fancy and lead it into the wilds of fairy story . 
As soon as Emily had reached the inn , he went therefore to the quay , to make his enquiries ; but , after all the endeavours of himself and Ludovico , they could hear of no bark , destined immediately for France , and the travellers returned to their resting-place . 
The Apennines , no longer awful , or even grand , here softened into the beauty of sylvan and pastoral landscape ; and Emily , as she descended them , looked down delighted on Leghorn , and its spacious bay , filled with vessels , and crowned with these beautiful hills . 
She was no less surprised and amused , on entering this town , to find it crowded with persons in the dresses of all nations ; a scene , which reminded her of a Venetian masquerade , such as she had witnessed at the time of the Carnival ; but here , was bustle , without gaiety , and noise instead of music , while elegance was to be looked for only in the waving outlines of the surrounding hills . 
Monsieur Du Pont , immediately on their arrival , went down to the quay , where he heard of several French vessels , and of one , that was to sail , in a few days , for Marseilles , from whence another vessel could be procured , without difficulty , to take them across the gulf of Lyons towards Narbonne , on the coast not many leagues from which city he understood the convent was seated , to which Emily wished to retire . 
He , therefore , immediately engaged with the captain to take them to Marseilles , and Emily was delighted to hear , that her passage to France was secured . 
Her mind was now relieved from the terror of pursuit , and the pleasing hope of soon seeing her native country -- that country which held Valancourt , restored to her spirits a degree of cheerfulness , such as she had scarcely known , since the death of her father . 
At Leghorn also , Du Pont heard of his regiment , and that it had embarked for France ; a circumstance , which gave him great satisfaction , for he could now accompany Emily thither , without reproach to his conscience , or apprehension of displeasure from his commander . 
During these days , he scrupulously forbore to distress her by a mention of his passion , and she was compelled to esteem and pity , though she could not love , him . 
He endeavoured to amuse her by shewing the environs of the town , and they often walked together on the sea-shore , and on the busy quays , where Emily was frequently interested by the arrival and departure of vessels , participating in the joy of meeting friends , and , sometimes , shedding a sympathetic tear to the sorrow of those , that were separating . 
It was after having witnessed a scene of the latter kind , that she arranged the following stanzas : We now return to Languedoc and to the mention of Count De Villefort , the nobleman , who succeeded to an estate of the Marquis De Villeroi , situated near the monastery of St. Claire . 
It may be recollected , that this chateau was uninhabited , when St. Aubert and his daughter were in the neighbourhood , and that the former was much affected on discovering himself to be so near Chateau-le-Blanc , a place , concerning which the good old La Voisin afterwards dropped some hints , that had alarmed Emily 's curiosity . 
This was the very avenue that St. Aubert and Emily had formerly entered , on their first arrival in the neighbourhood , with the hope of finding a house , that would receive them , for the night , and had so abruptly quitted , on perceiving the wildness of the place , and a figure , which the postillion had fancied was a robber . 
Among the latter , were Emily St. Aubert , Monsieur Du Pont , Ludovico and Annette , who , having embarked at Leghorn and reached Marseilles , were from thence crossing the Gulf of Lyons , when this storm overtook them . 
They were received by the Count with his usual benignity , who , though Emily wished to have proceeded immediately to the monastery of St. Claire , would not allow her to leave the chateau , that night ; and , indeed , the terror and fatigue she had suffered would scarcely have permitted her to go farther . 
In Monsieur Du Pont the Count discovered an old acquaintance , and much joy and congratulation passed between them , after which Emily was introduced by name to the Count 's family , whose hospitable benevolence dissipated the little embarrassment , which her situation had occasioned her , and the party were soon seated at the supper-table . 
The unaffected kindness of Blanche and the lively joy she expressed on the escape of the strangers , for whom her pity had been so much interested , gradually revived Emily 's languid spirits ; and Du Pont , relieved from his terrors for her and for himself , felt the full contrast , between his late situation on a dark and tremendous ocean , and his present one , in a cheerful mansion , where he was surrounded with plenty , elegance and smiles of welcome . 
Emily withdrew early to seek the repose she so much required , but her pillow was long a sleepless one . 
On this her return to her native country , many interesting remembrances were awakened ; all the events and sufferings she had experienced , since she quitted it , came in long succession to her fancy , and were chased only by the image of Valancourt , with whom to believe herself once more in the same land , after they had been so long , and so distantly separated , gave her emotions of indescribable joy , but which afterwards yielded to anxiety and apprehension , when she considered the long period , that had elapsed , since any letter had passed between them , and how much might have happened in this interval to affect her future peace . 
But the thought , that Valancourt might be now no more , or , if living , might have forgotten her , was so very terrible to her heart , that she would scarcely suffer herself to pause upon the possibility . 
She determined to inform him , on the following day , of her arrival in France , which it was scarcely possible he could know but by a letter from herself , and , after soothing her spirits with the hope of soon hearing , that he was well , and unchanged in his affections , she , at length , sunk to repose . 
The Lady Blanche was so much interested for Emily , that , upon hearing she was going to reside in the neighbouring convent , she requested the Count would invite her to lengthen her stay at the chateau . 
He had observed Emily , with attention , on the preceding evening , and was as much pleased with her , as it was possible he could be with any person , on so short an acquaintance . 
The mention , made of her by Mons . 
Du Pont , had also given him a favourable impression of Emily ; but , extremely cautious as to those , whom he introduced to the intimacy of his daughter , he determined , on hearing that the former was no stranger at the convent of St. Claire , to visit the abbess , and , if her account corresponded with his wish , to invite Emily to pass some time at the chateau . 
On this subject , he was influenced by a consideration of the Lady Blanche 's welfare , still more than by either a wish to oblige her , or to befriend the orphan Emily , for whom , however , he felt considerably interested . 
On the following morning , Emily was too much fatigued to appear ; but Mons . 
Du Pont was at the breakfast-table , when the Count entered the room , who pressed him , as his former acquaintance , and the son of a very old friend , to prolong his stay at the chateau ; an invitation , which Du Pont willingly accepted , since it would allow him to be near Emily ; and , though he was not conscious of encouraging a hope , that she would ever return his affection , he had not fortitude enough to attempt , at present , to overcome it . 
Emily , when she was somewhat recovered , wandered with her new friend over the grounds belonging to the chateau , as much delighted with the surrounding views , as Blanche , in the benevolence of her heart , had wished ; from thence she perceived , beyond the woods , the towers of the monastery , and remarked , that it was to this convent she designed to go . 
Emily , smiling at the warmth , with which the Lady Blanche spoke , observed , that she did not mean to confine herself to a convent for life . 
When they returned to the chateau , Lady Blanche conducted Emily to her favourite turret , and from thence they rambled through the ancient chambers , which Blanche had visited before . 
Emily was amused by observing the structure of these apartments , and the fashion of their old but still magnificent furniture , and by comparing them with those of the castle of Udolpho , which were yet more antique and grotesque . 
She was also interested by Dorothée the house-keeper , who attended them , whose appearance was almost as antique as the objects around her , and who seemed no less interested by Emily , on whom she frequently gazed with so much deep attention , as scarcely to hear what was said to her . 
While Emily looked from one of the casements , she perceived , with surprise , some objects , that were familiar to her memory ; -- the fields and woods , with the gleaming brook , which she had passed with La Voisin , one evening , soon after the death of Monsieur St. Aubert , in her way from the monastery to her cottage ; and she now knew this to be the chateau , which he had then avoided , and concerning which he had dropped some remarkable hints . 
Shocked by this discovery , yet scarcely knowing why , she mused for some time in silence , and remembered the emotion , which her father had betrayed on finding himself so near this mansion , and some other circumstances of his conduct , that now greatly interested her . 
The music , too , which she had formerly heard , and , respecting which La Voisin had given such an odd account , occurred to her , and , desirous of knowing more concerning it , she asked Dorothée whether it returned at midnight , as usual , and whether the musician had yet been discovered . 
said Emily , `` then why do they not pursue the enquiry ? '' 
Emily smiled , and , remembering how lately she had suffered herself to be led away by superstition , determined now to resist its contagion ; yet , in spight of her efforts , she felt awe mingle with her curiosity , on this subject ; and Blanche , who had hitherto listened in silence , now enquired what this music was , and how long it had been heard . 
`` I perceive , '' said Emily , smiling , `` that all old mansions are haunted ; I am lately come from a place of wonders ; but unluckily , since I left it , I have heard almost all of them explained . '' 
Blanche was silent ; Dorothée looked grave , and sighed ; and Emily felt herself still inclined to believe more of the wonderful , than she chose to acknowledge . 
Just then , she remembered the spectacle she had witnessed in a chamber of Udolpho , and , by an odd kind of coincidence , the alarming words , that had accidentally met her eye in the MS. papers , which she had destroyed , in obedience to the command of her father ; and she shuddered at the meaning they seemed to impart , almost as much as the horrible appearance , disclosed by the black veil . 
She paused , but afterwards , as they walked up the gallery , added of Emily , `` This young lady sometimes brings the late Marchioness to my mind ; I can remember , when she looked just as blooming , and very like her , when she smiles . 
Dorothée shook her head ; and Emily observed her , with eyes strongly expressive of the interest she now felt . 
said Emily with emotion . 
To some further enquiries of Blanche Dorothée was silent ; and Emily , observing the tears in her eyes , forbore to urge the subject , and endeavoured to withdraw the attention of her young friend to some object in the gardens , where the Count , with the Countess and Monsieur Du Pont , appearing , they went down to join them . 
When he perceived Emily , he advanced to meet her , and presented her to the Countess , in a manner so benign , that it recalled most powerfully to her mind the idea of her late father , and she felt more gratitude to him , than embarrassment towards the Countess , who , however , received her with one of those fascinating smiles , which her caprice sometimes allowed her to assume , and which were now the result of a conversation the Count had held with her , concerning Emily . 
Whatever this might be , or whatever had passed in his conversation with the lady abbess , whom he had just visited , esteem and kindness were strongly apparent in his manner , when he addressed Emily , who experienced that sweet emotion , which arises from the consciousness of possessing the approbation of the good ; for to the Count 's worth she had been inclined to yield her confidence almost from the first moment , in which she had seen him . 
Before she could finish her acknowledgments for the hospitality she had received , and mention her design of going immediately to the convent , she was interrupted by an invitation to lengthen her stay at the chateau , which was pressed by the Count and the Countess , with an appearance of such friendly sincerity , that , though she much wished to see her old friends at the monastery , and to sigh , once more , over her father 's grave , she consented to remain a few days at the chateau . 
Du Pont walked with Emily to the cottage of La Voisin , which she had now a melancholy pleasure in approaching , for time had softened her grief for the loss of St. Aubert , though it could not annihilate it , and she felt a soothing sadness in indulging the recollections , which this scene recalled . 
He immediately recollected Emily , whom he was much pleased to see , and she was as rejoiced to hear , that he had not lost one of his family , since her departure . 
Emily did not trust herself in the chamber , where St. Aubert died ; and , after half an hour 's conversation with La Voisin and his family , she left the cottage . 
During these the first days of her stay at Chateau-le-Blanc , she was often affected , by observing the deep , but silent melancholy , which , at times , stole over Du Pont ; and Emily , pitying the self-delusion , which disarmed him of the will to depart , determined to withdraw herself as soon as the respect she owed the Count and Countess De Villesort would permit . 
Emily herself , though she could not encourage his affection , esteemed him both for the many virtues he possessed , and for the services she had received from him ; and it was not without tender emotions of gratitude and pity , that she now saw him depart for his family seat in Gascony ; while he took leave of her with a countenance so expressive of love and grief , as to interest the Count more warmly in his cause than before . 
In a few days , Emily also left the chateau , but not before the Count and Countess had received her promise to repeat her visit very soon ; and she was welcomed by the abbess , with the same maternal kindness she had formerly experienced , and by the nuns , with much expression of regard . 
The well-known scenes of the convent occasioned her many melancholy recollections , but with these were mingled others , that inspired gratitude for having escaped the various dangers , that had pursued her , since she quitted it , and for the good , which she yet possessed ; and , though she once more wept over her father 's grave , with tears of tender affection , her grief was softened from its former acuteness . 
Some time after her return to the monastery , she received a letter from her uncle , Mons . 
Quesnel , in answer to information that she had arrived in France , and to her enquiries , concerning such of her affairs as he had undertaken to conduct during her absence , especially as to the period for which La Vallée had been let , whither it was her wish to return , if it should appear , that her income would permit her to do so . 
Quesnel was cold and formal , as she expected , expressing neither concern for the evils she suffered , nor pleasure , that she was now removed from them ; nor did he allow the opportunity to pass , of reproving her for her rejection of Count Morano , whom he affected still to believe a man of honour and fortune ; nor of vehemently declaiming against Montoni , to whom he had always , till now , felt himself to be inferior . 
On Emily 's pecuniary concerns , he was not very explicit ; he informed her , however , that the term , for which La Vallée had been engaged , was nearly expired ; but , without inviting her to his own house , added , that her circumstances would by no means allow her to reside there , and earnestly advised her to remain , for the present , in the convent of St. Claire . 
In the postscript to his letter , Monsieur Quesnel mentioned M. Motteville , in whose hands the late St. Aubert had placed the chief of his personal property , as being likely to arrange his affairs nearly to the satisfaction of his creditors , and that Emily would recover much more of her fortune , than she had formerly reason to expect . 
The letter also inclosed to Emily an order upon a merchant at Narbonne , for a small sum of money . 
The tranquillity of the monastery , and the liberty she was suffered to enjoy , in wandering among the woods and shores of this delightful province , gradually restored her spirits to their natural tone , except that anxiety would sometimes intrude , concerning Valancourt , as the time approached , when it was possible that she might receive an answer to her letter . 
The Count , observing her dissatisfaction , readily yielded to her entreaties , and reminded Emily of her promised visit ; but the silence of Valancourt , which was now prolonged far beyond the period , when a letter might have arrived from Estuviere , oppressed Emily with severe anxiety , and , rendering her averse to society , she would willingly have deferred her acceptance of this invitation , till her spirits should be relieved . 
The Count and his family , however , pressed to see her ; and , as the circumstances , that prompted her wish for solitude , could not be explained , there was an appearance of caprice in her refusal , which she could not persevere in , without offending the friends , whose esteem she valued . 
At length , therefore , she returned upon a second visit to Chateau-le-Blanc . 
Here the friendly manner of Count De Villefort encouraged Emily to mention to him her situation , respecting the estates of her late aunt , and to consult him on the means of recovering them . 
He had little doubt , that the law would decide in her favour , and , advising her to apply to it , offered first to write to an advocate at Avignon , on whose opinion he thought he could rely . 
His kindness was gratefully accepted by Emily , who , soothed by the courtesy she daily experienced , would have been once more happy , could she have been assured of Valancourt 's welfare and unaltered affection . 
She had now been above a week at the chateau , without receiving intelligence of him , and , though she knew , that , if he was absent from his brother 's residence , it was scarcely probable her letter had yet reached him , she could not forbear to admit doubts and fears , that destroyed her peace . 
Again she would consider of all , that might have happened in the long period , since her first seclusion at Udolpho , and her mind was sometimes so overwhelmed with an apprehension , that Valancourt was no more , or that he lived no longer for her , that the company even of Blanche became intolerably oppressive , and she would sit alone in her apartment for hours together , when the engagements of the family allowed her to do so , without incivility . 
Emily started on perceiving her , and hastily put up the papers , but not before Dorothée had observed both her agitation and her tears . 
said she , `` you , who are so young , -- have you reason for sorrow ? '' 
Emily tried to smile , but was unable to speak . 
`` No , Dorothée , nothing of any consequence , '' replied Emily . 
said Emily , alarmed by her manner , and looking round the room . 
Emily , still more alarmed , began now to fear , that Dorothée was seized with sudden phrensy , but entreated her to explain herself . 
said she , `` where did you find it , lady ? 
She laid on the table the miniature , which Emily had long ago found among the papers her father had enjoined her to destroy , and over which she had once seen him shed such tender and affecting tears ; and , recollecting all the various circumstances of his conduct , that had long perplexed her , her emotions increased to an excess , which deprived her of all power to ask the questions she trembled to have answered , and she could only enquire , whether Dorothée was certain the picture resembled the late Marchioness . 
said she , `` how came it to strike me so , the instant I saw it , if it was not my lady 's likeness ? 
added she , taking up the miniature , `` these are her own blue eyes -- looking so sweet and so mild ; and there is her very look , such as I have often seen it , when she had sat thinking for a long while , and then , the tears would often steal down her cheeks -- but she never would complain ! 
said Emily solemnly , `` I am interested in the cause of that grief , more so , perhaps , than you may imagine ; and I entreat , that you will no longer refuse to indulge my curiosity ; -- it is not a common one . '' 
As Emily said this , she remembered the papers , with which the picture had been found , and had scarcely a doubt , that they had concerned the Marchioness de Villeroi ; but with this supposition came a scruple , whether she ought to enquire further on a subject , which might prove to be the same , that her father had so carefully endeavoured to conceal . 
Her curiosity , concerning the Marchioness , powerful as it was , it is probable she would now have resisted , as she had formerly done , on unwarily observing the few terrible words in the papers , which had never since been erased from her memory , had she been certain that the history of that lady was the subject of those papers , or , that such simple particulars only as it was probable Dorothée could relate were included in her father 's command . 
What was known to her could be no secret to many other persons ; and , since it appeared very unlikely , that St. Aubert should attempt to conceal what Emily might learn by ordinary means , she at length concluded , that , if the papers had related to the story of the Marchioness , it was not those circumstances of it , which Dorothée could disclose , that he had thought sufficiently important to wish to have concealed . 
She , therefore , no longer hesitated to make the enquiries , that might lead to the gratification of her curiosity . 
`` Dorothée , '' said Emily , interrupting her , `` what you shall tell , you may depend upon it , shall never be disclosed by me . 
Dorothée seemed surprised at the earnestness of Emily 's manner , and , after regarding her for some moments , in silence , said , `` Young lady ! 
`` You will first promise to grant my request , '' said Emily . 
`` Why , no , Dorothée , '' replied Emily , recollecting herself , `` I have also particular reasons for observing silence , on these subjects , at least , till I know further ; and , remember , I do not promise ever to speak upon them ; therefore , do not let me induce you to satisfy my curiosity , from an expectation , that I shall gratify yours . 
replied Dorothée , after a long pause , during which her eyes were fixed upon Emily , `` you seem so much interested , -- and this picture and that face of yours make me think you have some reason to be so , -- that I will trust you -- and tell some things , that I never told before to any body , but my husband , though there are people , who have suspected as much . 
I will tell you the particulars of my lady 's death , too , and some of my own suspicions ; but you must first promise me by all the saints '' -- Emily , interrupting her , solemnly promised never to reveal what should be confided to her , without Dorothée 's consent . 
enquired Emily . 
`` That will suit me very well , '' replied Emily : `` Remember , then , to-night '' -- `` Aye , that is well remembered , '' said Dorothée , `` I fear I can not come to-night , madam , for there will be the dance of the vintage , and it will be late , before the servants go to rest ; for , when they once set in to dance , they will keep it up , in the cool of the air , till morning ; at least , it used to be so in my time . '' 
said Emily , with a deep sigh , remembering , that it was on the evening of this festival , in the preceding year , that St. Aubert and herself had arrived in the neighbourhood of Chateau-le-Blanc . 
She paused a moment , overcome by the sudden recollection , and then , recovering herself , added -- `` But this dance is in the open woods ; you , therefore , will not be wanted , and can easily come to me . '' 
Dorothée replied , that she had been accustomed to be present at the dance of the vintage , and she did not wish to be absent now ; `` but if I can get away , madam , I will , '' said she . 
Emily then hastened to the dining-room , where the Count conducted himself with the courtesy , which is inseparable from true dignity , and of which the Countess frequently practised little , though her manner to Emily was an exception to her usual habit . 
But , if she retained few of the ornamental virtues , she cherished other qualities , which she seemed to consider invaluable . 
She had dismissed the grace of modesty , but then she knew perfectly well how to manage the stare of assurance ; her manners had little of the tempered sweetness , which is necessary to render the female character interesting , but she could occasionally throw into them an affectation of spirits , which seemed to triumph over every person , who approached her . 
In the country , however , she generally affected an elegant languor , that persuaded her almost to faint , when her favourite read to her a story of fictitious sorrow ; but her countenance suffered no change , when living objects of distress solicited her charity , and her heart beat with no transport to the thought of giving them instant relief ; -- she was a stranger to the highest luxury , of which , perhaps , the human mind can be sensible , for her benevolence had never yet called smiles upon the face of misery . 
Du Pont requested Emily 's hand , but her spirits were too much depressed , to permit her to engage in the present festivity , which called to her remembrance that of the preceding year , when St. Aubert was living , and of the melancholy scenes , which had immediately followed it . 
Overcome by these recollections , she , at length , left the spot , and walked slowly into the woods , where the softened music , floating at a distance , soothed her melancholy mind . 
The moon threw a mellow light among the foliage ; the air was balmy and cool , and Emily , lost in thought , strolled on , without observing whither , till she perceived the sounds sinking afar off , and an awful stillness round her , except that , sometimes , the nightingale beguiled the silence with `` Liquid notes , that close the eye of day . '' 
At length , she found herself near the avenue , which , on the night of her father 's arrival , Michael had attempted to pass in search of a house , which was still nearly as wild and desolate as it had then appeared ; for the Count had been so much engaged in directing other improvements , that he had neglected to give orders , concerning this extensive approach , and the road was yet broken , and the trees overloaded with their own luxuriance . 
As she stood surveying it , and remembering the emotions , which she had formerly suffered there , she suddenly recollected the figure , that had been seen stealing among the trees , and which had returned no answer to Michael 's repeated calls ; and she experienced somewhat of the fear , that had then assailed her , for it did not appear improbable , that these deep woods were occasionally the haunt of banditti . 
She , therefore , turned back , and was hastily pursuing her way to the dancers , when she heard steps approaching from the avenue ; and , being still beyond the call of the peasants on the green , for she could neither hear their voices , or their music , she quickened her pace ; but the persons following gained fast upon her , and , at length , distinguishing the voice of Henri , she walked leisurely , till he came up . 
He expressed some surprise at meeting her so far from the company ; and , on her saying , that the pleasant moon-light had beguiled her to walk farther than she intended , an exclamation burst from the lips of his companion , and she thought she heard Valancourt speak ! 
In the joy of these moments , Emily forgot all her past sufferings , and Valancourt seemed to have forgotten , that any person but Emily existed ; while Henri was a silent and astonished spectator of the scene . 
Valancourt asked a thousand questions , concerning herself and Montoni , which there was now no time to answer ; but she learned , that her letter had been forwarded to him , at Paris , which he had previously quitted , and was returning to Gascony , whither the letter also returned , which , at length , informed him of Emily 's arrival , and on the receipt of which he had immediately set out for Languedoc . 
On reaching the monastery , whence she had dated her letter , he found , to his extreme disappointment , that the gates were already closed for the night ; and believing , that he should not see Emily , till the morrow , he was returning to his little inn , with the intention of writing to her , when he was overtaken by Henri , with whom he had been intimate at Paris , and was led to her , whom he was secretly lamenting that he should not see , till the following day . 
Emily , with Valancourt and Henri , now returned to the green , where the latter presented Valancourt to the Count , who , she fancied , received him with less than his usual benignity , though it appeared , that they were not strangers to each other . 
He was invited , however , to partake of the diversions of the evening ; and , when he had paid his respects to the Count , and while the dancers continued their festivity , he seated himself by Emily , and conversed , without constraint . 
The lights , which were hung among the trees , under which they sat , allowed her a more perfect view of the countenance she had so frequently in absence endeavoured to recollect , and she perceived , with some regret , that it was not the same as when last she saw it . 
Still , however , it was an interesting countenance ; but Emily thought she perceived , at intervals , anxiety contract , and melancholy fix the features of Valancourt ; sometimes , too , he fell into a momentary musing , and then appeared anxious to dissipate thought ; while , at others , as he fixed his eyes on Emily , a kind of sudden distraction seemed to cross his mind . 
In her he perceived the same goodness and beautiful simplicity , that had charmed him , on their first acquaintance . 
The bloom of her countenance was somewhat faded , but all its sweetness remained , and it was rendered more interesting , than ever , by the faint expression of melancholy , that sometimes mingled with her smile . 
At his request , she related the most important circumstances , that had occurred to her , since she left France , and emotions of pity and indignation alternately prevailed in his mind , when he heard how much she had suffered from the villany of Montoni . 
More than once , when she was speaking of his conduct , of which the guilt was rather softened , than exaggerated , by her representation , he started from his seat , and walked away , apparently overcome as much by self accusation as by resentment . 
Her sufferings alone were mentioned in the few words , which he could address to her , and he listened not to the account , which she was careful to give as distinctly as possible , of the present loss of Madame Montoni 's estates , and of the little reason there was to expect their restoration . 
At length , Valancourt remained lost in thought , and then some secret cause seemed to overcome him with anguish , Again he abruptly left her . 
When he returned , she perceived , that he had been weeping , and tenderly begged , that he would compose himself . 
`` My sufferings are all passed now , '' said she , `` for I have escaped from the tyranny of Montoni , and I see you well -- let me also see you happy . '' 
`` I am unworthy of you , Emily , '' said he , `` I am unworthy of you ; '' -- words , by his manner of uttering which Emily was then more shocked than by their import . 
She fixed on him a mournful and enquiring eye . 
`` Do not look thus on me , '' said he , turning away and pressing her hand ; `` I can not bear those looks . '' 
`` I would ask , '' said Emily , in a gentle , but agitated voice , `` the meaning of your words ; but I perceive , that the question would distress you now . 
said Emily -- `` Would that I could ! '' 
It was some time before Emily could repress her tears , and try to command her emotions . 
`` If you wish to forget that journey , '' said she , `` it must certainly be my wish to forget it also . '' 
She paused , and then added , `` You make me very uneasy ; but this is not the time for further enquiry ; -- yet , how can I bear to believe , even for a moment , that you are less worthy of my esteem than formerly ? 
-- `` Yes , '' said Valancourt , `` yes , Emily : I have not yet lost my candour : if I had , I could better have disguised my emotions , on learning what were your sufferings -- your virtues , -- while I -- I -- but I will say no more . 
Tell me , Emily , that you will not forget that journey -- will not wish to forget it , and I will be calm . 
said Emily ; -- `` but we may be over heard . 
-- `` I sincerely forgive you , '' replied Emily . 
It is unnecessary to say , '' added she , observing his dejection , `` how much pain it would give me to believe otherwise . 
Valancourt and Emily now joined the Lady Blanche ; and the party , soon after , sat down with the Count , his son , and the Chevalier Du Pont , at a banquet , spread under a gay awning , beneath the trees . 
At the table also were seated several of the most venerable of the Count 's tenants , and it was a festive repast to all but Valancourt and Emily . 
When the Count retired to the chateau , he did not invite Valancourt to accompany him , who , therefore , took leave of Emily , and retired to his solitary inn for the night : meanwhile , she soon withdrew to her own apartment , where she mused , with deep anxiety and concern , on his behaviour , and on the Count 's reception of him . 
Her attention was thus so wholly engaged , that she forgot Dorothée and her appointment , till morning was far advanced , when , knowing that the good old woman would not come , she retired , for a few hours , to repose . 
On the following day , when the Count had accidentally joined Emily in one of the walks , they talked of the festival of the preceding evening , and this led him to a mention of Valancourt . 
Emily said , that she was . 
He paused , and Emily trembled , between the desire of hearing more and the fear of shewing the Count , that she felt an interest on the subject . 
said she ; `` and I will answer it immediately , '' -- `` Certainly , '' said the Count , `` that is but just . 
said Emily , endeavouring to conceal her emotion . 
Emily , greatly agitated , entreated further explanation . 
-- `` I must believe so , sir , '' replied Emily . 
`` But let us rest under these trees , '' said the Count , observing the paleness of her countenance ; `` here is a seat -- you are fatigued . '' 
Emily sighed softly , and bowed her thanks . 
Emily briefly related the accident of their meeting in the presence of her father , and then so earnestly entreated the Count not to hesitate in declaring what he knew , that he perceived the violent emotion , against which she was contending , and , regarding her with a look of tender compassion , considered how he might communicate his information with least pain to his anxious auditor . 
-- `` No , sir , '' said Emily , `` I beg you will proceed : I am only distressed . '' 
said Emily suddenly ; `` but -- pardon me , sir , I scarcely know what I say ; allow for the distress of my mind . 
Emily was silent . 
She recollected Valancourt 's sayings , on the preceding evening , which discovered the pangs of self-reproach , and seemed to confirm all that the Count had related . 
Yet she had not fortitude enough to dare conviction . 
Her heart was overwhelmed with anguish at the mere suspicion of his guilt , and she could not endure a belief of it . 
said Emily ; `` if I can prevent it , you may safely conside in my honour . '' 
-- `` I shall not be exposed to such a temptation , sir , '' said Emily , with modest pride , `` for I can not favour one , whom I must no longer esteem . 
Tears , in the mean time , contradicted her first assertion ; and she felt , that time and effort only could eradicate an affection , which had been formed on virtuous esteem , and cherished by habit and difficulty . 
`` I must not doubt what you have yourself witnessed , '' replied Emily , sinking with grief , `` or what you assert . 
The Count hesitated and paused ; while Emily endeavoured to support herself , as , with increasing perturbation , she expected what he might further say . 
A long pause of silence ensued , during which he was visibly agitated ; at length , he said , `` It would be a cruel delicacy , that could prevail with me to be silent -- and I will inform you , that the Chevalier 's extravagance has brought him twice into the prisons of Paris , from whence he was last extricated , as I was told upon authority , which I can not doubt , by a well-known Parisian Countess , with whom he continued to reside , when I left Paris . '' 
He paused again ; and , looking at Emily , perceived her countenance change , and that she was falling from the seat ; he caught her , but she had fainted , and he called loudly for assistance . 
They were , however , beyond the hearing of his servants at the chateau , and he feared to leave her while he went thither for assistance , yet knew not how otherwise to obtain it ; till a fountain at no great distance caught his eye , and he endeavoured to support Emily against the tree , under which she had been sitting , while he went thither for water . 
But , again he was perplexed , for he had nothing near him , in which water could be brought ; but while , with increased anxiety , he watched her , he thought he perceived in her countenance symptons of returning life . 
It was long , however , before she revived , and she then found herself supported -- not by the Count , but by Valancourt , who was observing her with looks of earnest apprehension , and who now spoke to her in a tone , tremulous with his anxiety . 
At the sound of his well-known voice , she raised her eyes , but presently closed them , and a faintness again came over her . 
The Count , with a look somewhat stern , waved him to withdraw ; but he only sighed heavily , and called on the name of Emily , as he again held the water , that had been brought , to her lips . 
On the Count 's repeating his action , and accompanying it with words , Valancourt answered him with a look of deep resentment , and refused to leave the place , till she should revive , or to resign her for a moment to the care of any person . 
In the next instant , his conscience seemed to inform him of what had been the subject of the Count 's conversation with Emily , and indignation flashed in his eyes ; but it was quickly repressed , and succeeded by an expression of serious anguish , that induced the Count to regard him with more pity than resentment , and the view of which so much affected Emily , when she again revived , that she yielded to the weakness of tears . 
But she soon restrained them , and , exerting her resolution to appear recovered , she rose , thanked the Count and Henri , with whom Valancourt had entered the garden , for their care , and moved towards the chateau , without noticing Valancourt , who , heart-struck by her manner , exclaimed in a low voice -- `` Good God ! 
Emily , without replying ; but with increased emotion , quickened her steps . 
`` What has thus disordered you , Emily ? '' 
said he , as he still walked by her side : `` give me a few moments ' conversation , I entreat you ; -- I am very miserable ! '' 
Valancourt 's cheek was crimsoned : he looked haughtily at the Count , and then at Emily , with successive expressions of surprise , grief and supplication , which she could neither misunderstand , or resist , and she said languidly -- `` I shall be better tomorrow , and if you wish to accept the Count 's permission , I will see you then . '' 
When they reached the door of the chateau , he lingered a moment , for his resentment was now fled ; and then , with a look so expressive of tenderness and grief , that Emily 's heart was not proof against it , he bade her good morning , and , bowing slightly to the Count , disappeared . 
Emily withdrew to her own apartment , under such oppression of heart as she had seldom known , when she endeavoured to recollect all that the Count had told , to examine the probability of the circumstances he himself believed , and to consider of her future conduct towards Valancourt . 
But , when she attempted to think , her mind refused controul , and she could only feel that she was miserable . 
One moment , she sunk under the conviction , that Valancourt was no longer the same , whom she had so tenderly loved , the idea of whom had hitherto supported her under affliction , and cheered her with the hope of happier days , -- but a fallen a worthless character , whom she must teach herself to despise -- if she could not forget . 
Then , unable to endure this terrible supposition , she rejected it , and disdained to believe him capable of conduct , such as the Count had described , to whom she believed he had been misrepresented by some artful enemy ; and there were moments , when she even ventured to doubt the integrity of the Count himself , and to suspect , that he was influenced by some selfish motive , to break her connection with Valancourt . 
But this was the error of an instant , only ; the Count 's character , which she had heard spoken of by Du Pont and many other persons , and had herself observed , enabled her to judge , and forbade the supposition ; had her confidence , indeed , been less , there appeared to be no temptation to betray him into conduct so treacherous , and so cruel . 
Nor did reflection suffer her to preserve the hope , that Valancourt had been misrepresented to the Count , who had said , that he spoke chiefly from his own observation , and from his son 's experience . 
She must part from Valancourt , therefore , for ever -- for what of either happiness or tranquillity could she expect with a man , whose tastes were degenerated into low inclinations , and to whom vice was become habitual ? 
whom she must no longer esteem , though the remembrance of what he once was , and the long habit of loving him , would render it very difficult for her to despise him . 
she would exclaim , `` having been separated so long -- do we meet , only to be miserable -- only to part for ever ? '' 
Amidst all the tumult of her mind , she remembered pertinaciously the seeming candour and simplicity of his conduct , on the preceding night ; and , had she dared to trust her own heart , it would have led her to hope much from this . 
Still she could not resolve to dismiss him for ever , without obtaining further proof of his ill conduct ; yet she saw no probability of procuring it , if , indeed , proof more positive was possible . 
Something , however , it was necessary to decide upon , and she almost determined to be guided in her opinion solely by the manner , with which Valancourt should receive her hints concerning his late conduct . 
Thus passed the hours till dinner-time , when Emily , struggling against the pressure of her grief , dried her tears , and joined the family at table , where the Count preserved towards her the most delicate attention ; but the Countess and Mademoiselle Bearn , having looked , for a moment , with surprise , on her dejected countenance , began , as usual , to talk of trifles , while the eyes of Lady Blanche asked much of her friend , who could only reply by a mournful smile . 
Emily withdrew as soon after dinner as possible , and was followed by the Lady Blanche , whose anxious enquiries , however , she found herself quite unequal to answer , and whom she entreated to spare her on the subject of her distress . 
Emily secretly determined to go to her convent in a day or two ; for company , especially that of the Countess and Mademoiselle Bearn , was intolerable to her , in the present state of her spirits ; and , in the retirement of the convent , as well as the kindness of the abbess , she hoped to recover the command of her mind , and to teach it resignation to the event , which , she too plainly perceived , was approaching . 
Emily replied , therefore , to Valancourt , that she would see him , and then exerted herself in endeavours to attain fortitude and composure , to bear her through the approaching scene -- a scene so afflictingly the reverse of any , to which she had looked forward ! 
In the evening , when Emily was at length informed , that Count De Villefort requested to see her , she guessed that Valancourt was below , and , endeavouring to assume composure and to recollect all her spirits , she rose and left the apartment ; but on reaching the door of the library , where she imagined him to be , her emotion returned with such energy , that , fearing to trust herself in the room , she returned into the hall , where she continued for a considerable time , unable to command her agitated spirits . 
When she could recall them , she found in the library Valancourt , seated with the Count , who both rose on her entrance ; but she did not dare to look at Valancourt , and the Count , having led her to a chair , immediately withdrew . 
Emily remained with her eyes fixed on the floor , under such oppression of heart , that she could not speak , and with difficulty breathed ; while Valancourt threw himself into a chair beside her , and , sighing heavily , continued silent , when , had she raised her eyes , she would have perceived the violent emotions , with which he was agitated . 
At length , in a tremulous voice , he said , `` I have solicited to see you this evening , that I might , at least , be spared the further torture of suspense , which your altered manner had occasioned me , and which the hints I have just received from the Count have in part explained . 
I perceive I have enemies , Emily , who envied me my late happiness , and who have been busy in searching out the means to destroy it : I perceive , too , that time and absence have weakened the affection you once felt for me , and that you can now easily be taught to forget me . '' 
His last words faltered , and Emily , less able to speak than before , continued silent . 
exclaimed Valancourt , starting from his seat , and pacing the room with hurried steps , `` what a meeting is this , after our long -- long separation ! '' 
Again he sat down , and , after the struggle of a moment , he added in a firm but despairing tone , `` This is too much -- I can not bear it ! 
Emily , will you not speak to me ? '' 
He covered his face with his hand , as if to conceal his emotion , and took Emily 's , which she did not withdraw . 
Her tears could no longer be restrained ; and , when he raised his eyes and perceived that she was weeping , all his tenderness returned , and a gleam of hope appeared to cross his mind , for he exclaimed , `` O ! 
Yes , you are still my own Emily -- let me believe those tears , that tell me so ! '' 
Emily now made an effort to recover her firmness , and , hastily drying them , `` Yes , '' said she , `` I do pity you -- I weep for you -- but , ought I to think of you with affection ? 
cried he , -- `` the same -- the same ! '' 
He paused in extreme emotion , and then added , in a voice at once solemn , and dejected , -- `` No -- I am not the same ! 
He again concealed his face . 
Emily was too much affected by this honest confession to reply immediately , and , while she struggled to overcome the pleadings of her heart , and to act with the decisive firmness , which was necessary for her future peace , she perceived all the danger of trusting long to her resolution , in the presence of Valancourt , and was anxious to conclude an interview , that tortured them both ; yet , when she considered , that this was probably their last meeting , her fortitude sunk at once , and she experienced only emotions of tenderness and of despondency . 
Valancourt , meanwhile , lost in emotions of remorse and grief , which he had neither the power , or the will to express , sat insensible almost of the presence of Emily , his features still concealed , and his breast agitated by convulsive sighs . 
`` Spare me the necessity , '' said Emily , recollecting her fortitude , `` spare me the necessity of mentioning those circumstances of your conduct , which oblige me to break our connection forever . 
cried Valancourt , roused from his deep silence , `` You can not mean what you say ! 
`` We must part , '' repeated Emily , with emphasis , -- `` and that forever ! 
`` This is the Count 's determination , '' said he haughtily , `` not yours , and I shall enquire by what authority he interferes between us . '' 
He now rose , and walked about the room in great emotion . 
`` Let me save you from this error , '' said Emily , not less agitated -- `` it is my determination , and , if you reflect a moment on your late conduct , you will perceive , that my future peace requires it . '' 
rejoined Emily , while her voice softened into tenderness , and her tears flowed again . 
He was silent a moment , as if overwhelmed by the consciousness of no longer deserving this esteem , as well as the certainty of having lost it , and then , with impassioned grief , lamented the criminality of his late conduct and the misery to which it had reduced him , till , overcome by a recollection of the past and a conviction of the future , he burst into tears , and uttered only deep and broken sighs . 
The remorse he had expressed , and the distress he suffered could not be witnessed by Emily with indifference , and , had she not called to her recollection all the circumstances , of which Count De Villefort had informed her , and all he had said of the danger of confiding in repentance , formed under the influence of passion , she might perhaps have trusted to the assurances of her heart , and have forgotten his misconduct in the tenderness , which that repentance excited . 
Valancourt , returning to the chair beside her , at length , said , in a calm voice , '' 'T is true , I am fallen -- fallen from my own esteem ! 
but could you , Emily , so soon , so suddenly resign , if you had not before ceased to love me , or , if your conduct was not governed by the designs , I will say , the selfish designs of another person ! 
-- Emily wept aloud . 
-- `` No , Emily -- no -- you would not do this , if you still loved me . 
`` There are too many probabilities against that hope , '' said Emily , `` to justify me in trusting the comfort of my whole life to it . 
Yes , Emily -- I am ruined -- irreparably ruined -- I am involved in debts , which I can never discharge ! '' 
Valancourt 's look , which was wild , as he spoke this , soon settled into an expression of gloomy despair ; and Emily , while she was compelled to admire his sincerity , saw , with unutterable anguish , new reasons for fear in the suddenness of his feelings and the extent of the misery , in which they might involve him . 
After some minutes , she seemed to contend against her grief and to struggle for fortitude to conclude the interview . 
I will not prolong these moments , '' said she , `` by a conversation , which can answer no good purpose . 
said he , wildly interrupting her -- `` You will not leave me thus -- you will not abandon me even before my mind has suggested any possibility of compromise between the last indulgence of my despair and the endurance of my loss ! '' 
Emily was terrified by the sternness of his look , and said , in a soothing voice , `` You have yourself acknowledged , that it is necessary we should part ; -- if you wish , that I should believe you love me , you will repeat the acknowledgment . '' 
Emily -- this is too much ; -- though you are not deceived as to my faults , you must be deluded into this exasperation against them . 
The Count is the barrier between us ; but he shall not long remain so . '' 
`` You are , indeed , distracted , '' said Emily , `` the Count is not your enemy ; on the contrary , he is my friend , and that might , in some degree , induce you to consider him as yours . '' 
Emily , more frightened than before by the frantic looks of Valancourt , said , in a tone scarcely audible , `` For heaven 's sake be reasonable -- be composed . 
He made no reply , but sat with his arms rested on the table and his face concealed by his hands ; while Emily stood , silent and trembling , wretched for herself and dreading to leave him in this state of mind . 
After a long pause , turning towards her and taking her hand , he said , in a softened voice , `` Emily , can you bear that we should part -- can you resolve to give up an heart , that loves you like mine -- an heart , which , though it has erred -- widely erred , is not irretrievable from error , as you well know , it never can be retrievable from love ? '' 
Emily made no reply , but with her tears . 
`` O do not lead me to the remembrance of those days , '' said Emily , `` unless you can teach me to forget the present ; I do not mean to reproach you ; if I did , I should be spared these tears ; but why will you render your present sufferings more conspicuous , by contrasting them with your former virtues ? '' 
I am going , Emily , I am going to leave you -- to leave you , forever ! '' 
Emily was utterly unable to leave the room , or to say farewell . 
All impression of his criminal conduct and almost of his follies was obliterated from her mind , and she was sensible only of pity and grief . 
Emily 's heart was somewhat relieved by the request , and she endeavoured to believe , that she ought not to refuse it . 
Yet she was embarrassed by recollecting , that she was a visitor in the house of the Count , who could not be pleased by the return of Valancourt . 
Other considerations , however , soon overcame this , and she granted his request , on the condition , that he would neither think of the Count , as his enemy , nor Dupont as his rival . 
He then left her , with a heart , so much lightened by this short respite , that he almost lost every former sense of misfortune . 
Emily withdrew to her own room , that she might compose her spirits and remove the traces of her tears , which would encourage the censorious remarks of the Countess and her favourite , as well as excite the curiosity of the rest of the family . 
She found it , however , impossible to tranquillize her mind , from which she could not expel the remembrance of the late scene with Valancourt , or the consciousness , that she was to see him again , on the morrow . 
This meeting now appeared more terrible to her than the last , for the ingenuous confession he had made of his ill conduct and his embarrassed circumstances , with the strength and tenderness of affection , which this confession discovered , had deeply impressed her , and , in spite of all she had heard and believed to his disadvantage , her esteem began to return . 
It frequently appeared to her impossible , that he could have been guilty of the depravities , reported of him , which , if not inconsistent with his warmth and impetuosity , were entirely so with his candour and sensibility . 
Whatever was the criminality , which had given rise to the reports , she could not now believe them to be wholly true , nor that his heart was finally closed against the charms of virtue . 
The deep consciousness , which he felt as well as expressed of his errors , seemed to justify the opinion ; and , as she understood not the instability of youthful dispositions , when opposed by habit , and that professions frequently deceive those , who make , as well as those , who hear them , she might have yielded to the flattering persuasions of her own heart and the pleadings of Valancourt , had she not been guided by the superior prudence of the Count . 
He represented to her , in a clear light , the danger of her present situation , that of listening to promises of amendment , made under the influence of strong passion , and the slight hope , which could attach to a connection , whose chance of happiness rested upon the retrieval of ruined circumstances and the reform of corrupted habits . 
On these accounts , he lamented , that Emily had consented to a second interview , for he saw how much it would shake her resolution and increase the difficulty of her conquest . 
Her mind was now so entirely occupied by nearer interests , that she forgot the old housekeeper and the promised history , which so lately had excited her curiosity , but which Dorothée was probably not very anxious to disclose , for night came ; the hours passed ; and she did not appear in Emily 's chamber . 
With the latter it was a sleepless and dismal night ; the more she suffered her memory to dwell on the late scenes with Valancourt , the more her resolution declined , and she was obliged to recollect all the arguments , which the Count had made use of to strengthen it , and all the precepts , which she had received from her deceased father , on the subject of self-command , to enable her to act , with prudence and dignity , on this the most severe occasion of her life . 
There were moments , when all her fortitude forsook her , and when , remembering the confidence of former times , she thought it impossible , that she could renounce Valancourt . 
His reformation then appeared certain ; the arguments of Count De Villefort were forgotten ; she readily believed all she wished , and was willing to encounter any evil , rather than that of an immediate separation . 
Thus passed the night in ineffectual struggles between affection and reason , and she rose , in the morning , with a mind , weakened and irresolute , and a frame , trembling with illness . 
The sight of Emily had renewed all the ardour , with which he first loved her , and which had suffered a temporary abatement from absence and the passing scenes of busy life . 
When , on the receipt of her letter , he set out for Languedoc , he then knew , that his own folly had involved him in ruin , and it was no part of his design to conceal this from her . 
But he lamented only the delay which his illconduct must give to their marriage , and did not foresee , that the information could induce her to break their connection forever . 
While the prospect of this separation overwhelmed his mind , before stung with selfreproach , he awaited their second interview , in a state little short of distraction , yet was still inclined to hope , that his pleadings might prevail upon her not to exact it . 
In the morning , he sent to know at what hour she would see him ; and his note arrived , when she was with the Count , who had sought an opportunity of again conversing with her of Valancourt ; for he perceived the extreme distress of her mind , and feared , more than ever , that her fortitude would desert her . 
Emily having dismissed the messenger , the Count returned to the subject of their late conversation , urging his fear of Valancourt 's entreaties , and again pointing out to her the lengthened misery , that must ensue , if she should refuse to encounter some present uneasiness . 
His repeated arguments could , indeed , alone have protected her from the affection she still felt for Valancourt , and she resolved to be governed by thém . 
Emily went to it , at least , with composure of manner , but Valancourt was so much agitated , that he could not speak , for several minutes , and his first words were alternately those of lamentation , entreaty and self-reproach . 
Afterward , he said , `` Emily , I have loved you -- I do love you , better than my life ; but I am ruined by my own conduct . 
I resign you , Emily , and will endeavour to find consolation in considering , that , though I am miserable , you , at least , may be happy . 
He paused a moment , while Emily attempted to conceal the tears , which came to her eyes . 
She would have said , `` You speak now , as you were wont to do , '' but she checked herself . 
-- `` Forgive me , Emily , '' said he , `` all the sufferings I have occasioned you , and , sometimes , when you think of the wretched Valancourt , remember , that his only consolation would be to believe , that you are no longer unhappy by his folly . '' 
The tears now fell fast upon her cheek , and he was relapsing into the phrensy of despair , when Emily endeavoured to recall her fortitude and to terminate an interview , which only seemed to increase the distress of both . 
Perceiving her tears and that she was rising to go , Valancourt struggled , once more , to overcome his own feelings and to sooth hers . 
Emily was somewhat comforted by this assurance . 
`` We are now parting for ever , '' said she ; `` but , if my happiness is dear to you , you will always remember , that nothing can contribute to it more , than to believe , that you have recovered your own esteem . '' 
Valancourt took her hand ; -- his eyes were covered with tears , and the farewell he would have spoken was lost in sighs . 
After a few moments , Emily said , with difficulty and emotion , `` Farewell , Valancourt , may you be happy ! '' 
She repeated her `` farewell , '' and attempted to withdraw her hand , but he still held it and bathed it with his tears . 
said Emily , in a voice scarcely audible , `` they are too painful to us both . '' 
`` This is too -- too much , '' exclaimed Valancourt , resigning her hand and throwing himself into a chair , where he covered his face with his hands and was overcome , for some moments , by convulsive sighs . 
After a long pause , during which Emily wept in silence , and Valancourt seemed struggling with his grief , she again rose to take leave of him . 
He then added , in a solemn voice , which frequently trembled with the agitation of his heart , `` Farewell , Emily , you will always be the only object of my tenderness . 
He once more bade Emily adieu , pressed her hand to his lips , looked at her , for the last time , and hurried out of the room . 
Emily remained in the chair , where he had left her , oppressed with a pain at her heart , which scarcely permitted her to breathe , and listening to his departing steps , sinking fainter and fainter , as he crossed the hall . 
She was , at length , roused by the voice of the Countess in the garden , and , her attention being then awakened , the first object , which struck her sight , was the vacant chair , where Valancourt had sat . 
We now return to the mention of Montoni , whose rage and disappointment were soon lost in nearer interests , than any , which the unhappy Emily had awakened . 
Among the persons , seized with Montoni , was Orsino , the assassin , who had joined him on his first arrival at Udolpho , and whose concealment had been made known to the senate by Count Morano , after the unsuccessful attempt of the latter to carry off Emily . 
The celerity and ease , with which this whole transaction was completed , prevented it from attracting curiosity , or even from obtaining a place in any of the published records of that time ; so that Emily , who remained in Languedoc , was ignorant of the defeat and signal humiliation of her late persecutor . 
Her mind was now occupied with sufferings , which no effort of reason had yet been able to controul . 
Count de Villefort , who sincerely attempted whatever benevolence could suggest for softening them , sometimes allowed her the solitude she wished for , sometimes led her into friendly parties , and constantly protected her , as much as possible , from the shrewd enquiries and critical conversation of the Countess . 
Emily , to whom he appeared as the enlightened friend and protector of her youth , soon felt for him the tender affection of a daughter , and her heart expanded to her young friend Blanche , as to a sister , whose kindness and simplicity compensated for the want of more brilliant qualities . 
It was long before she could sufficiently abstract her mind from Valancourt to listen to the story , promised by old Dorothée , concerning which her curiosity had once been so deeply interested ; but Dorothée , at length , reminded her of it , and Emily desired , that she would come , that night , to her chamber . 
Still her thoughts were employed by considerations , which weakened her curiosity , and Dorothée 's tap at the door , soon after twelve , surprised her almost as much as if it had not been appointed . 
`` I am come , at last , lady , '' said she ; `` I wonder what it is makes my old limbs shake so , tonight . 
Emily seated her in a chair , and desired , that she would compose her spirits , before she entered upon the subject , that had brought her thither . 
Emily now drew her chair near to Dorothée , who went on . 
-- -- `` But the Marchioness , Dorothée , '' said Emily , `` you was telling me of her . '' 
said Emily . 
Dorothée , '' said Emily , `` can that be possible ? '' 
said Emily . 
said Emily , at length . 
Emily , as the sounds drew nearer , knew them to be the same she had formerly heard at the time of her father 's death , and , whether it was the remembrance they now revived of that melancholy event , or that she was struck with superstitious awe , it is certain she was so much affected , that she had nearly fainted . 
said Emily , `` let us open the window , and listen . '' 
As Emily leaned on the window , gazing with a kind of thrilling awe upon the obscurity beneath , and then upon the cloudless arch above , enlightened only by the stars , Dorothée , in a low voice , resumed her narrative . 
`` It is extraordinary , '' observed Emily , `` that no person has yet discovered the musician . '' 
`` Pray resume your story of the Marchioness , '' said Emily , `` and acquaint me with the manner of her death . '' 
`` This cool air refreshes me , '' replied Emily , `` and I love to hear it creep along the woods , and to look upon this dusky landscape . 
Dorothée paused , and wept , and Emily wept with her ; for she was much affected by the goodness of the late Marchioness , and by the meek patience , with which she had suffered . 
`` The death of the Marchioness appears extraordinary , '' said Emily , who was anxious to know more than she dared to ask . 
`` You are very right , '' said Emily ; -- `` where did the Marquis die ? '' 
-- `` I have , '' said Emily , `` and I will be faithful to my promise , Dorothée ; -- what you have told has interested me more than you can imagine . 
Dorothée , however , steadily refused to do this , and then returned to the notice of Emily 's likeness to the late Marchioness . 
`` There is another picture of her , '' added she , `` hanging in a room of the suite , which was shut up . 
When Emily expressed a strong desire to see this , Dorothée replied , that she did not like to open those rooms ; but Emily reminded her , that the Count had talked the other day of ordering them to be opened ; of which Dorothée seemed to consider much , and then she owned , that she should feel less , if she went into them with Emily first , than otherwise , and at length promised to shew the picture . 
The night was too far advanced and Emily was too much affected by the narrative of the scenes , which had passed in those apartments , to wish to visit them at this hour , but she requested that Dorothée would return on the following night , when they were not likely to be observed , and conduct her thither . 
Besides her wish to examine the portrait , she felt a thrilling curiosity to see the chamber , in which the Marchioness had died , and which Dorothée had said remained , with the bed and furniture , just as when the corpse was removed for interment . 
The solemn emotions , which the expectation of viewing such a scene had awakened , were in unison with the present tone of her mind , depressed by severe disappointment . 
Cheerful objects rather added to , than removed this depression ; but , perhaps , she yielded too much to her melancholy inclination , and imprudently lamented the misfortune , which no virtue of her own could have taught her to avoid , though no effort of reason could make her look unmoved upon the self-degradation of him , whom she had once esteemed and loved . 
Dorothée promised to return , on the following night , with the keys of the chambers , and then wished Emily good repose , and departed . 
Emily , however , continued at the window , musing upon the melancholy fate of the Marchioness and listening , in awful expectation , for a return of the music . 
She now withdrew from the window , and , as she sat at her bed-side , indulging melancholy reveries , which the loneliness of the hour assisted , the stillness was suddenly interrupted not by music , but by very uncommon sounds , that seemed to come either from the room , adjoining her own , or from one below . 
The terrible catastrophe , that had been related to her , together with the mysterious circumstances , said to have since occurred in the chateau , had so much shocked her spirits , that she now sunk , for a moment , under the weakness of superstition . 
The sounds , however , did not return , and she retired , to forget in sleep the disastrous story she had heard . 
On the next night , about the same hour as before , Dorothée came to Emily 's chamber , with the keys of that suite of rooms , which had been particularly appropriated to the late Marchioness . 
These extended along the north side of the chateau , forming part of the old building ; and , as Emily 's room was in the south , they had to pass over a great extent of the castle , and by the chambers of several of the family , whose observations Dorothée was anxious to avoid , since it might excite enquiry and raise reports , such as would displease the Count . 
She , therefore , requested , that Emily would wait half an hour , before they ventured forth , that they might be certain all the servants were gone to bed . 
In this interval , her spirits seemed to be greatly affected by the remembrance of past events , and by the prospect of entering again upon places , where these had occurred , and in which she had not been for so many years . 
Emily too was affected , but her feelings had more of solemnity , and less of fear . 
Dorothée , at first , carried the lamp , but her hand trembled so much with infirmity and alarm , that Emily took it from her , and offered her arm , to support her feeble steps . 
`` None , '' said Emily , `` there certainly is no person up in the chateau , besides ourselves . '' 
said Emily . 
`` Ah , '' said she , as she endeavoured to turn it , `` so many years have passed since this was opened , that I fear it will not move . '' 
Emily was more successful , and they presently entered a spacious and ancient chamber . 
Emily , struck with the circumstance , and affected by the dusky and solemn air of the apartment , remained silent , and they passed on through a long suite of rooms , till they came to one more spacious than the rest , and rich in the remains of faded magnificence . 
Emily drew one of the massy arm-chairs , with which the apartment was furnished , and begged Dorothée would sit down , and try to compose her spirits . 
said Emily . 
Dorothée , half starting from her chair , looked round the apartment , and they listened -- but , every thing remaining still , the old woman spoke again upon the subject of her sorrow . 
`` I understood , that was twenty years ago , '' observed Emily . 
Emily now rose to examine the figures it exhibited , and discovered , by verses in the Provencal tongue , wrought underneath each scene , that it exhibited stories from some of the most celebrated ancient romances . 
Dorothée 's spirits being now more composed , she rose , and unlocked the door that led into the late Marchioness 's apartment , and Emily passed into a lofty chamber , hung round with dark arras , and so spacious , that the lamp she held up did not shew its extent ; while Dorothée , when she entered , had dropped into a chair , where , sighing deeply , she scarcely trusted herself with the view of a scene so affecting to her . 
It was some time before Emily perceived , through the dusk , the bed on which the Marchioness was said to have died ; when , advancing to the upper end of the room , she discovered the high canopied tester of dark green damask , with the curtains descending to the floor in the fashion of a tent , half drawn , and remaining apparently , as they had been left twenty years before ; and over the whole bedding was thrown a counterpane , or pall , of black velvet , that hung down to the floor . 
Emily shuddered , as she held the lamp over it , and looked within the dark curtains , where she almost expected to have seen a human face , and , suddenly remembering the horror she had suffered upon discovering the dying Madame Montoni in the turret-chamber of Udolpho , her spirits fainted , and she was turning from the bed , when Dorothée , who had now reached it , exclaimed , `` Holy Virgin ! 
Emily , shocked by this exclamation , looked involuntarily again within the curtains , but the blackness of the pall only appeared ; while Dorothée was compelled to support herself upon the side of the bed , and presently tears brought her some relief . 
said she , after she had wept awhile , `` it was here I sat on that terrible night , and held my lady 's hand , and heard her last words , and saw all her sufferings -- bere she died in my arms ! '' 
`` Do not indulge these painful recollections , '' said Emily , `` let us go . 
`` It hangs in the oriel , '' said Dorothée rising , and going towards a small door near the bed 's head , which she opened , and Emily followed with the light , into the closet of the late Marchioness . 
While Dorothée spoke , Emily was attentively examining the picture , which bore a strong resemblance to the miniature , though the expression of the countenance in each was somewhat different ; but still she thought she perceived something of that pensive melancholy in the portrait , which so strongly characterised the miniature . 
Emily also , as she gazed upon it , thought that she had somewhere seen a person very like it , though she could not now recollect who this was . 
In this closet were many memorials of the departed Marchioness ; a robe and several articles of her dress were scattered upon the chairs , as if they had just been thrown off . 
On the floor , were a pair of black sattin slippers , and , on the dressing-table , a pair of gloves and a long black veil , which , as Emily took it up to examine , she perceived was dropping to pieces with age . 
Emily , shuddering , immediately laid it down again . 
Dorothée wept again , and then , taking up the veil , threw it suddenly over Emily ; who shuddered to find it wrapped round her , descending even to her feet , and , as she endeavoured to throw it off , Dorothée intreated that she would keep it on for one moment . 
`` I thought , '' added she , `` how like you would look to my dear mistress in that veil ; -- may your life , ma'amselle , be a happier one than hers ! '' 
Emily , having disengaged herself from the veil , laid it again on the dressing-table , and surveyed the closet , where every object , on which her eye fixed , seemed to speak of the Marchioness . 
In a large oriel window of painted glass , stood a table , with a silver crucifix , and a prayer-book open ; and Emily remembered with emotion what Dorothée had mentioned concerning her custom of playing on her lute in this window , before she observed the lute itself , lying on a corner of the table , as if it had been carelessly placed there by the hand , that had so often awakened it . 
While Dorothée spoke , Emily was still looking on the lute , which was a Spanish one , and remarkably large ; and then , with a hesitating hand , she took it up , and passed her fingers over the chords . 
Dorothée started at their well-known tones , and , seeing the lute in Emily 's hand , said , `` This is the lute my lady Marchioness loved so ! 
Having returned into the chamber , she desired to look once more upon the bed , when , as they came opposite to the open door , leading into the saloon , Emily , in the partial gleam , which the lamp threw into it , thought she saw something glide along into the obscurer part of the room . 
Her spirits had been much affected by the surrounding scene , or it is probable this circumstance , whether real or imaginary , would not have affected her in the degree it did ; but she endeavoured to conceal her emotion from Dorothée , who , however , observing her countenance change , enquired if she was ill . 
`` Let us go , '' said Emily , faintly , `` the air of these rooms is unwholesome ; '' but , when she attempted to do so , considering that she must pass through the apartment where the phantom of her terror had appeared , this terror increased , and , too faint to support herself , she sat down on the side of the bed . 
Dorothée , believing that she was only affected by a consideration of the melancholy catastrophe , which had happened on this spot , endeavoured to cheer her ; and then , as they sat together on the bed , she began to relate other particulars concerning it , and this without reflecting , that it might increase Emily 's emotion , but because they were particularly interesting to herself . 
`` A little before my lady 's death , '' said she , `` when the pains were gone off , she called me to her , and , stretching out her hand to me , I sat down just there -- where the curtain falls upon the bed . 
Emily turned to look within the dusky curtains , as if she could have seen the countenance of which Dorothée spoke . 
The edge of the white pillow only appeared above the blackness of the pall , but , as her eyes wandered over the pall itself , she fancied she saw it move . 
Without speaking , she caught Dorothée 's arm , who , surprised by the action , and by the look of terror that accompanied it , turned her eyes from Emily to the bed , where , in the next moment she , too , saw the pall slowly lifted , and fall again . 
Emily attempted to go , but Dorothée stood fixed and gazing upon the bed ; and , at length , said -- `` It is only the wind , that waves it , ma'amselle ; we have left all the doors open : see how the air waves the lamp , too . 
She had scarcely uttered these words , when the pall was more violently agitated than before ; but Emily , somewhat ashamed of her terrors , stepped back to the bed , willing to be convinced that the wind only had occasioned her alarm ; when , as she gazed within the curtains , the pall moved again , and , in the next moment , the apparition of a human countenance rose above it . 
When they reached the stair-case , Dorothée threw open a chamber-door , where some of the female servants slept , and sunk breathless on the bed ; while Emily , deprived of all presence of mind , made only a feeble attempt to conceal the occasion of her terror from the astonished servants ; and , though Dorothée , when she could speak , endeavoured to laugh at her own fright , and was joined by Emily , no remonstrances could prevail with the servants , who had quickly taken the alarm , to pass even the remainder of the night in a room so near to these terrific chambers . 
Dorothée having accompanied Emily to her own apartment , they then began to talk over , with some degree of coolness , the strange circumstance , that had just occurred ; and Emily would almost have doubted her own perceptions , had not those of Dorothée attested their truth . 
Having now mentioned what she had observed in the outer chamber , she asked the housekeeper , whether she was certain no door had been left unfastened , by which a person might secretly have entered the apartments ? 
Dorothée replied , that she had constantly kept the keys of the several doors in her own possession ; that , when she had gone her rounds through the castle , as she frequently did , to examine if all was safe , she had tried these doors among the rest , and had always found them fastened . 
It was , therefore , impossible , she added , that any person could have got admittance into the apartments ; and , if they could -- it was very improbable they should have chose to sleep in a place so cold and forlorn . 
Emily observed , that their visit to these chambers had , perhaps , been watched , and that some person , for a frolic , had followed them into the rooms , with a design to frighten them , and , while they were in the oriel , had taken the opportunity of concealing himself in the bed . 
Dorothée allowed , that this was possible , till she recollected , that , on entering the apartments , she had turned the key of the outer door , and this , which had been done to prevent their visit being noticed by any of the family , who might happen to be up , must effectually have excluded every person , except themselves , from the chambers ; and she now persisted in affirming , that the ghastly countenance she had seen was nothing human , but some dreadful apparition . 
Emily was very solemnly affected . 
Of whatever nature might be the appearance she had witnessed , whether human or supernatural , the fate of the deceased Marchioness was a truth not to be doubted ; and this unaccountable circumstance , occurring in the very scene of her sufferings , affected Emily 's imagination with a superstitious awe , to which , after having detected the fallacies at Udolpho , she might not have yielded , had she been ignorant of the unhappy story , related by the housekeeper . 
Her she now solemnly conjured to conceal the occurrence of this night , and to make light of the terror she had already betrayed , that the Count might not be distressed by reports , which would certainly spread alarm and confusion among his family . 
`` Time , '' she added , `` may explain this mysterious affair ; meanwhile let us watch the event in silence . '' 
Dorothée readily acquiesced ; but she now recollected that she had left all the doors of the north suite of rooms open , and , not having courage to return alone to lock even the outer one , Emily , after some effort , so far conquered her own fears , that she offered to accompany her to the foot of the back stair-case , and to wait there while Dorothée ascended , whose resolution being re-assured by this circumstance , she consented to go , and they left Emily 's apartment together . 
No sound disturbed the stillness , as they passed along the halls and galleries ; but , on reaching the foot of the back stair-case , Dorothée 's resolution failed again ; having , however , paused a moment to listen , and no sound being heard above , she ascended , leaving Emily below , and , scarcely suffering her eye to glance within the first chamber , she fastened the door , which shut up the whole suite of apartments , and returned to Emily . 
As they stepped along the passage , leading into the great hall , a sound of lamentation was heard , which seemed to come from the hall itself , and they stopped in new alarm to listen , when Emily presently distinguished the voice of Annette , whom she found crossing the hall , with another female servant , and so terrified by the report , which the other maids had spread , that , believing she could be safe only where her lady was , she was going for refuge to her apartment . 
Emily 's endeavours to laugh , or to argue her out of these terrors , were equally vain , and , in compassion to her distress , she consented that she should remain in her room during the night . 
Emily 's injunctions to Annette to be silent on the subject of her terror were ineffectual , and the occurrence of the preceding night spread such alarm among the servants , who now all affirmed , that they had frequently heard unaccountable noises in the chateau , that a report soon reached the Count of the north side of the castle being haunted . 
He treated this , at first , with ridicule , but , perceiving , that it was productive of serious evil , in the confusion it occasioned among his household , he forbade any person to repeat it , on pain of punishment . 
The arrival of a party of his friends soon withdrew his thoughts entirely from this subject , and his servants had now little leisure to brood over it , except , indeed , in the evenings after supper , when they all assembled in their hall , and related stories of ghosts , till they feared to look round the room ; started , if the echo of a closing door murmured along the passage , and refused to go singly to any part of the castle . 
The pavilion in the woods was fitted up and frequented , in the fine evenings , as a supperroom , when the hour usually concluded with a concert , at which the Count and Countess , who were scientific performers , and the Chevaliers Henri and St. Foix , with the Lady Blanche and Emily , whose voices and fine taste compensated for the want of more skilful execution , usually assisted . 
At any other period , these parties would have been delightful to Emily ; but her spirits were now oppressed with a melancholy , which she perceived that no kind of what is called amusement had power to dissipate , and which the tender and , frequently , pathetic , melody of these concerts sometimes increased to a very painful degree . 
She was particularly fond of walking in the woods , that hung on a promontory , overlooking the sea . 
Their luxuriant shade was soothing to her pensive mind , and , in the partial views , which they afforded of the Mediterranean , with its winding shores and passing sails , tranquil beauty was united with grandeur . 
Hither Emily often came alone in the silence of evening , and , soothed by the scenery and by the faint murmur , that rose from the waves , would sit , till darkness obliged her to return to the chateau . 
Emily 's spirits were in harmony with this scene . 
As she sat meditating , sounds stole by her on the air , which she immediately knew to be the music and the voice she had formerly heard at midnight , and the emotion of awe , which she felt , was not unmixed with terror , when she considered her remote and lonely situation . 
She would have risen to leave the place , but they seemed to come from the way she must have taken towards the chateau , and she awaited the event in trembling expectation . 
Emily sat listening , gazing and unable to move , when she saw a figure emerge from the shade of the woods and pass along the bank , at some little distance before her . 
It went swiftly , and her spirits were so overcome with awe , that , though she saw , she did not much observe it . 
Having left the spot , with a resolution never again to visit it alone , at so late an hour , she began to approach the chateau , when she heard voices calling her from the part of the wood , which was nearest to it . 
They were the shouts of the Count 's servants , who were sent to search for her ; and when she entered the supper-room , where he sat with Henri and Blanche , he gently reproached her with a look , which she blushed to have deserved . 
She then distinguished the voices of several of the servants , who seemed too much engaged by some circumstance without , to attend to her calls ; but , Annette soon after entering the room for water , Emily understood , that one of the maids had fainted , whom she immediately desired them to bring into her room , where she assisted to restore her . 
The girl , springing down the stairs and passing up the great stair case , had run , with a faint scream , till she reached the gallery , where she fell , groaning , at Emily 's door . 
Gently chiding her for the alarm she had occasioned , Emily tried to make her ashamed of her fears ; but the girl persisted in saying , that she had seen an apparition , till she went to her own room , whither she was accompanied by all the servants present , except Dorothée , who , at Emily 's request , remained with her during the night . 
Emily was perplexed , and Dorothée was terrified , and mentioned many occurrences of former times , which had long since confirmed her superstitions ; among these , according to her belief , she had once witnessed an appearance , like that just described , and on the very same spot , and it was the remembrance of it , that had made her pause , when she was going to ascend the stairs with Emily , and which had increased her reluctance to open the north apartments . 
Whatever might be Emily 's opinions , she did not disclose them , but listened attentively to all that Dorothée communicated , which occasioned her much thought and perplexity . 
Emily was surprised and concerned , when she heard of his intention , and was frequently inclined to mention what she had witnessed in the north apartments to the Count , for she could not entirely divest herself of fears for Ludovico 's safety , though her reason represented these to be absurd . 
The necessity , however , of concealing the secret , with which Dorothée had entrusted her , and which must have been mentioned , with the late occurrence , in excuse for her having so privately visited the north apartments , kept her entirely silent on the subject of her apprehension ; and she tried only to sooth Annette , who held , that Ludovico was certainly to be destroyed ; and who was much less affected by Emily 's consolatory efforts , than by the manner of old Dorothée , who often , as she exclaimed Ludovico , sighed , and threw up her eyes to heaven . 
The Count gave orders for the north apartments to be opened and prepared for the reception of Ludovico ; but Dorothée , remembering what she had lately witnessed there , feared to obey , and , not one of the other servants daring to venture thither , the rooms remained shut up till the time when Ludovico was to retire thither for the night , an hour , for which the whole household waited with impatience . 
After supper , Ludovico , by the order of the Count , attended him in his closet , where they remained alone for near half an hour , and , on leaving which , his Lord delivered to him a sword . 
`` O , here is the saloon , '' said the Count , as they entered the spacious apartment , in which Emily and Dorothée had rested . 
Meanwhile , Emily had been listening with deep attention to the discussion of what was to her a very interesting question , and , remembering the appearance she had witnessed in the apartment of the late Marchioness , she was frequently chilled with awe . 
Several times she was on the point of mentioning what she had seen , but the fear of giving pain to the Count , and the dread of his ridicule , restrained her ; and , awaiting in anxious expectation the event of Ludovico 's intrepidity , she determined that her future silence should depend upon it . 
Emily also rose at an early hour , and took her customary walk along the brow of the promontory , that overhung the Mediterranean . 
Her mind was now not occupied with the occurrences of the chateau , and Valancourt was the subject of her mournful thoughts ; whom she had not yet taught herself to consider with indifference , though her judgment constantly reproached her for the affection , that lingered in her heart , after her esteem for him was departed . 
Remembrance frequently gave her his parting look and the tones of his voice , when he had bade her a last farewel ; and , some accidental associations now recalling these circumstances to her fancy , with peculiar energy , she shed bitter tears to the recollection . 
Having reached the watch-tower , she seated herself on the broken steps , and , in melancholy dejection , watched the waves , half hid in vapour , as they came rolling towards the shore , and threw up their light spray round the rocks below . 
Their hollow murmur and the obscuring mists , that came in wreaths up the cliffs , gave a solemnity to the scene , which was in harmony with the temper of her mind , and she sat , given up to the remembrance of past times , till this became too painful , and she abruptly quitted the place . 
On passing the little gate of the watch-tower , she observed letters , engraved on the stone postern , which she paused to examine , and , though they appeared to have been rudely cut with a pen-knife , the characters were familiar to her ; at length , recognizing the hand-writing of Valancourt , she read , with trembling anxiety , the following lines , entitled From these lines it appeared , that Valancourt had visited the tower ; that he had probably been here on the preceding night , for it was such an one as they described , and that he had left the building very lately , since it had not long been light , and without light it was impossible these letters could have been cut . 
As these reflections passed rapidly over the mind of Emily , they called up a variety of contending emotions , that almost overcame her spirits ; but her first impulse was to avoid him , and , immediately leaving the tower , she returned , with hasty steps , towards the chateau . 
As she passed along , she remembered the music she had lately heard near the tower , with the figure , which had appeared , and , in this moment of agitation , she was inclined to believe , that she had then heard and seen Valancourt ; but other recollections soon convinced her of her error . 
On turning into a thicker part of the woods , she perceived a person , walking slowly in the gloom at some little distance , and , her mind engaged by the idea of him , she started and paused , imagining this to be Valancourt . 
The person advanced with quicker steps , and , before she could recover recollection enough to avoid him , he spoke , and she then knew the voice of the Count , who expressed some surprise , on finding her walking at so early an hour , and made a feeble effort to rally her on her love of solitude . 
But he soon perceived this to be more a subject of concern than of light laughter , and , changing his manner , affectionately expostulated with Emily , on thus indulging unavailing regret ; who , though she acknowledged the justness of all he said , could not restrain her tears , while she did so , and he presently quitted the topic . 
Expressing surprise at not having yet heard from his friend , the Advocate at Avignon , in answer to the questions proposed to him , respecting the estates of the late Madame Montoni , he , with friendly zeal , endeavoured to cheer Emily with hopes of establishing her claim to them ; while she felt , that the estates could now contribute little to the happiness of a life , in which Valancourt had no longer an interest . 
When they returned to the chateau , Emily retired to her apartment , and Count De Villefort to the door of the north chambers . 
Emily , whose mind had been deeply affected by the disastrous fate of the late Marchioness and with the mysterious connection , which she fancied had existed between her and St. Aubert , was particularly impressed by the late extraordinary event , and much concerned for the loss of Ludovico , whose integrity and faithful services claimed both her esteem and gratitude . 
She was now very desirous to return to the quiet retirement of her convent , but every hint of this was received with real sorrow by the Lady Blanche , and affectionately set aside by the Count , for whom she felt much of the respectful love and admiration of a daughter , and to whom , by Dorothée 's consent , she , at length , mentioned the appearance , which they had witnessed in the chamber of the deceased Marchioness . 
At any other period , he would have smiled at such a relation , and have believed , that its object had existed only in the distempered fancy of the relater ; but he now attended to Emily with seriousness , and , when she concluded , requested of her a promise , that this occurrence should rest in silence . 
The Count then sent for Dorothée , and required of her also a promise of silence , concerning what she had already , or might in future witness of an extraordinary nature ; and this ancient servant now related to him the particulars of the Marchioness de Villeroi 's death , with some of which he appeared to be already acquainted , while by others he was evidently surprised and agitated . 
After listening to this narrative , the Count retired to his closet , where he remained alone for several hours ; and , when he again appeared , the solemnity of his manner surprised and alarmed Emily , but she gave no utterance to her thoughts . 
St. Foix , and Emily ; the latter of whom was soon after embarrassed and distressed by the arrival of another visitor , Mons . 
Du Pont , which made her determine upon withdrawing to her convent immediately . 
The delight , that appeared in his countenance , when he met her , told that he brought back the same ardour of passion , which had formerly banished him from Chateau-le-Blanc . 
He was received with reserve by Emily , and with pleasure by the Count , who presented him to her with a smile , that seemed intended to plead his cause , and who did not hope the less for his friend , from the embarrassment she betrayed . 
But M. Du Pont , with truer sympathy , seemed to understand her manner , and his countenance quickly lost its vivacity , and sunk into the languor of despondency . 
On the following day , however , he sought an opportunity of declaring the purport of his visit , and renewed his suit ; a declaration , which was received with real concern by Emily , who endeavoured to lessen the pain she might inflict by a second rejection , with assurances of esteem and friendship ; yet she left him in a state of mind , that claimed and excited her tenderest compassion ; and , being more sensible than ever of the impropriety of remaining longer at the chateau , she immediately sought the Count , and communicated to him her intention of returning to the convent . 
`` My dear Emily , '' said he , `` I observe , with extreme concern , the illusion you are encouraging -- an illusion common to young and sensible minds . 
Emily smiled mournfully , `` I know what you would say , my dear sir , '' said she , `` and am prepared to answer you . 
`` My dear sir , '' said Emily , timidly , `` what mean those tears ? 
Do not weep , Emily , '' continued the Count , taking her hand , `` there is happiness reserved for you . '' 
He was silent a moment ; and then added , in a firmer voice , `` I do not wish , that you should make a violent effort to overcome your feelings ; all I , at present , ask , is , that you will check the thoughts , that would lead you to a remembrance of the past ; that you will suffer your mind to be engaged by present objects ; that you will allow yourself to believe it possible you may yet be happy ; and that you will sometimes think with complacency of poor Du Pont , and not condemn him to the state of despondency , from which , my dear Emily , I am endeavouring to withdraw you . '' 
my dear sir , '' said Emily , while her tears still fell , `` do not suffer the benevolence of your wishes to mislead Mons . 
Tears of gratitude mingled with those of tender regret , while Emily thanked the Count for the many instances of friendship she had received from him ; promised to be directed by his advice upon every subject but one , and assured him of the pleasure , with which she should , at some future period , accept the invitation of the Countess and himself -- if Mons . 
Emily looked distressed , and remained silent . 
Emily , when she left the Count , went to mention her intended departure to the Countess , who opposed it with polite expressions of regret ; after which , she sent a note to acquaint the lady abbess , that she should return to the convent ; and thither she withdrew on the evening of the following day . 
M. Du Pont , in extreme regret , saw her depart , while the Count endeavoured to cheer him with a hope , that Emily would sometimes regard him with a more favourable eye . 
She was pleased to find herself once more in the tranquil retirement of the convent , where she experienced a renewal of all the maternal kindness of the abbess , and of the sisterly attentions of the nuns . 
A report of the late extraordinary occurrence at the chateau had already reached them , and , after supper , on the evening of her arrival , it was the subject of conversation in the convent parlour , where she was requested to mention some particulars of that unaccountable event . 
Emily was guarded in her conversation on this subject , and briefly related a few circumstances concerning Ludovico , whose disappearance , her auditors almost unanimously agreed , had been effected by supernatural means . 
There was a mixture of wildness and solemnity in her manner of delivering this , which struck Emily exceedingly ; but Mademoiselle repeated her question , without noticing the solemn eagerness of the nun . 
Emily looked with surprise at sister Frances , who returned her a significant glance . 
said Emily , when she was gone . 
`` Never , '' said Emily . 
As the abbess spoke this , the last bell of vespers struck up , and she rose . 
`` Let us go , my children , '' said she , `` and intercede for the wretched ; let us go and confess our sins , and endeavour to purify our souls for the heaven , to which she is gone ! '' 
Emily was affected by the solemnity of this exhortation , and , remembering her father , `` The heaven , to which he , too , is gone ! '' 
said she , faintly , as she suppressed her sighs , and followed the abbess and the nuns to the chapel . 
Count de Villefort , at length , received a letter from the advocate at Avignon , encouraging Emily to assert her claim to the estates of the late Madame Montoni ; and , about the same time , a messenger arrived from Monsieur Quesnel with intelligence , that made an appeal to the law on this subject unnecessary , since it appeared , that the only person , who could have opposed her claim , was now no more . 
The authority , from which M. Quesnel had received this information , would not allow him to doubt its truth , and he told Emily , that she had now only to lay claim to the estates of her late aunt , to secure them , and added , that he would himself assist in the necessary forms of this business . 
The term , for which La Vallée had been let being now also nearly expired , he acquainted her with the circumstance , and advised her to take the road thither , through Tholouse , where he promised to meet her , and where it would be proper for her to take possession of the estates of the late Madame Montoni ; adding , that he would spare her any difficulties , that might occur on that occasion from the want of knowledge on the subject , and that he believed it would be necessary for her to be at Tholouse , in about three weeks from the present time . 
When Count de Villefort , with Blanche , came to the convent to give Emily the advice of the advocate , he was informed of the contents of M. Quesnel 's letter , and gave her his sincere congratulations , on the occasion ; but she observed , that , when the first expression of satisfaction had faded from his countenance , an unusual gravity succeeded , and she scarcely hesitated to enquire its cause . 
Emily , seriously alarmed for the Count , united her entreaties with those of the Lady Blanche , to dissuade him from his purpose . 
said Emily . 
The Count and Lady Blanche , shortly afterwards , took leave of Emily , and returned to the chateau , where he informed Henri of his intention , who , not without some secret reluctance , consented to be the partner of his watch ; and , when the design was mentioned after supper , the Countess was terrified , and the Baron , and M. Du Pont joined with her in entreating , that he would not tempt his fate , as Ludovico had done . 
In the evening , the Count called , as he had promised , at the convent , and Emily was surprised to perceive a mixture of playful ridicule and of reserve in his mention of the north apartment . 
Of what had occurred there , however , he said nothing , and , when she ventured to remind him of his promise to tell her the result of his enquiries , and to ask if he had received any proof , that those chambers were haunted , his look became solemn , for a moment , then , seeming to recollect himself , he smiled , and said , `` My dear Emily , do not suffer my lady abbess to infect your good understanding with these fancies ; she will teach you to expect a ghost in every dark room . 
Soon after , he took leave , and , when Emily joined some of the nuns , she was surprised to find them acquainted with a circumstance , which she had carefully avoided to mention , and expressing their admiration of his intrepidity in having dared to pass a night in the apartment , whence Ludovico had disappeared ; for she had not considered with what rapidity a tale of wonder circulates . 
Emily listened in silence to the various opinions of the nuns , concerning the conduct of the Count , most of whom condemned it as rash and presumptuous , affirming , that it was provoking the vengeance of an evil spirit , thus to intrude upon its haunts . 
-- The nun , as she concluded , uttered a shuddering sigh , that startled Emily , who , looking up , perceived the eyes of Agnes fixed on hers , after which the sister rose , took her hand , gazed earnestly upon her countenance , for some moments , in silence , and then said , `` You are young -- you are innocent ! 
Emily , affected by these words and by the solemnity , with which they were delivered , could not suppress her tears . 
exclaimed Agnes , her countenance softening from its sternness -- `` so young , and so unfortunate ! 
Yet , there is no bond of kindness among the guilty , '' she added , while her eyes resumed their wild expression , `` no gentleness , -- no peace , no hope ! 
When they had withdrawn , Frances , observing Emily 's emotion , said , `` Do not be alarmed , our sister is often thus deranged , though I have not lately seen her so frantic ; her usual mood is melancholy . 
observed Emily , '' `` her ideas followed each other in perfect order . '' 
`` Her conscience seems afflicted , '' said Emily , `` did you ever hear what circumstance reduced her to this deplorable condition ? '' 
`` I have , '' replied the nun , who said no more till Emily repeated the question , when she added in a low voice , and looking significantly towards the other boarders , `` I can not tell you now , but , if you think it worth your while , come to my cell , to-night , when our sisterhood are at rest , and you shall hear more ; but remember we rise to midnight prayers , and come either before , or after midnight . '' 
Emily promised to remember , and , the abbess soon after appearing , they spoke no more of the unhappy nun . 
The Count , meanwhile , on his return home , had found M. Du Pont in one of those fits of despondency , which his attachment to Emily frequently occasioned him , an attachment , that had subsisted too long to be easily subdued , and which had already outlived the opposition of his friends . 
M. Du Pont had first seen Emily in Gascony , during the lifetime of his parent , who , on discovering his son 's partiality for mademoiselle St. Aubert , his inferior in point of fortune , forbade him to declare it to her family , or to think of her more . 
During the life of his father , he had observed the first command , but had found it impracticable to obey the second , and had , sometimes , soothed his passion by visiting her favourite haunts , among which was the fishing-house , where , once or twice , he addressed her in verse , concealing his name , in obedience to the promise he had given his father . 
There too he played the pathetic air , to which she had listened with such surprise and admiration ; and there he found the miniature , that had since cherished a passion fatal to his repose . 
By what accident he discovered Emily , and assisted to release her from a terrible imprisonment , has already appeared , and also the unavailing hope , with which he then encouraged his love , and the fruitless efforts , that he had since made to overcome it . 
The Count still endeavoured , with friendly zeal , to sooth him with a belief , that patience , perseverance and prudence would finally obtain for him happiness and Emily ; `` Time , '' said he , `` will wear away the melancholy impression , which disappointment has left on her mind , and she will be sensible of your merit . 
When the nuns had retired to rest , Emily stole to her appointment with sister Frances , whom she found in her cell , engaged in prayer , before a little table , where appeared the image she was addressing , and , above , the dim lamp , that gave light to the place . 
Turning her eyes , as the door opened , she beckoned to Emily to come in , who , having done so , seated herself in silence beside the nun 's little mattress of straw , till her orisons should conclude . 
The latter soon rose from her knees , and , taking down the lamp and placing it on the table , Emily perceived there a human scull and bones , lying beside an hour-glass ; but the nun , without observing her emotion , sat down on the mattress by her , saying , `` Your curiosity , sister , has made you punctual , but you have nothing remarkable to hear in the history of poor Agnes , of whom I avoided to speak in the presence of my lay-sisters , only because I would not publish her crime to them . '' 
`` I shall consider your confidence in me as a favour , '' said Emily , `` and will not misuse it . '' 
You look surprised , '' added the nun , observing Emily 's countenance ; `` I allow the story is uncommon , but not , I believe , without a parallel . '' 
`` Pray proceed , '' said Emily , `` I am interested . '' 
Emily was affected by the history of the sister , some parts of whose story brought to her remembrance that of the Marchioness de Villeroi , who had also been compelled by her father to forsake the object of her affections , for a nobleman of his choice ; but , from what Dorothée had related , there appeared no reason to suppose , that she had escaped the vengeance of a jealous husband , or to doubt for a moment the innocence of her conduct . 
But Emily , while she sighed over the misery of the nun , could not forbear shedding a few tears to the misfortunes of the Marchioness ; and , when she returned to the mention of sister Agnes , she asked Frances if she remembered her in her youth , and whether she was then beautiful . 
`` It is strange , '' said Emily , `` but there are moments , when her countenance has appeared familiar to my memory ! 
said Emily . 
Emily did not appear to notice this question , but remained thoughtful , for a few moments , and then said , `` It was about that same period that the Marchioness de Villeroi expired . '' 
Emily , recalled from her reverie , smiled , and gave the conversation another turn , but it soon came back to the subject of the unhappy nun , and Emily remained in the cell of sister Frances , till the mid-night bell aroused her ; when , apologizing for having interrupted the sister 's repose , till this late hour , they quitted the cell together . 
Emily returned to her chamber , and the nun , bearing a glimmering taper , went to her devotion in the chapel . 
Several days followed , during which Emily saw neither the Count , or any of his family ; and , when , at length , he appeared , she remarked , with concern , that his air was unusually disturbed . 
`` My spirits are harassed , '' said he , in answer to her anxious enquiries , `` and I mean to change my residence , for a little while , an experiment , which , I hope , will restore my mind to its usual tranquillity . 
It lies in a valley of the Pyrenées , that opens towards Gascony , and I have been thinking , Emily , that , when you set out for La Vallée , we may go part of the way together ; it would be a satisfaction to me to guard you towards your home . 
She thanked the Count for his friendly consideration , and lamented , that the necessity for her going first to Tholouse would render this plan impracticable , `` But , when you are at the Baron 's residence , '' she added , `` you will be only a short journey from La Vallée , and I think , sir , you will not leave the country without visiting me ; it is unnecessary to say with what pleasure I should receive you and the Lady Blanche . '' 
When Emily said that she should hope to see the Countess also , she was not sorry to learn that this lady was going , accompanied by Mademoiselle Bearn , to pay a visit , for a few weeks , to a family in lower Languedoc . 
The Count , after some further conversation on his intended journey and on the arrangement of Emily 's , took leave ; and many days did not succeed this visit , before a second letter from M. Quesnel informed her , that he was then at Tholouse , that La Vallée was at liberty , and that he wished her to set off for the former place , where he awaited her arrival , with all possible dispatch , since his own affairs pressed him to return to Gascony . 
Emily did not hesitate to obey him , and , having taken an affecting leave of the Count 's family , in which M. Du Pont was still included , and of her friends at the convent , she set out for Tholouse , attended by the unhappy Annette , and guarded by a steady servant of the Count . 
Emily pursued her journey , without any accident , along the plains of Languedoc towards the north-west ; and , on this her return to Tholouse , which she had last left with Madame Montoni , she thought much on the melancholy fate of her aunt , who , but for her own imprudence , might now have been living in happiness there ! 
Montoni , too , often rose to her fancy , such as she had seen him in his days of triumph , bold , spirited and commanding ; such also as she had since beheld him in his days of vengeance ; and now , only a few short months had passed -- and he had no longer the power , or the will to afflict ; -- he had become a clod of earth , and his life was vanished like a shadow ! 
Emily could have wept at his fate , had she not remembered his crimes ; for that of her unfortunate aunt she did weep , and all sense of her errors was overcome by the recollection of her misfortunes . 
Other thoughts and other emotions succeeded , as Emily drew near the well-known scenes of her early love , and considered , that Valancourt was lost to her and to himself , for ever . 
At length , she came to the brow of the hill , whence , on her departure for Italy , she had given a farewell look to this beloved landscape , amongst whose woods and fields she had so often walked with Valancourt , and where he was then to inhabit , when she would be far , far away ! 
She saw , once more , that chain of the Pyrenées , which overlooked La Vallée , rising , like faint clouds , on the horizon . 
said she , `` O my father , -- my mother ! 
she added , drying the tears , that obscured her sight , -- `` and Tholouse , and my aunt 's mansion -- and the groves in her garden ! 
Tears rushed again to her eyes , and she continued to weep , till an abrupt turn in the road had nearly occasioned the carriage to overset , when , looking up , she perceived another part of the well-known scene around Tholouse , and all the reflections and anticipations , which she had suffered , at the moment , when she bade it last adieu , came with recollected force to her heart . 
She remembered how anxiously she had looked forward to the futurity , which was to decide her happiness concerning Valancourt , and what depressing fears had assailed her ; the very words she had uttered , as she withdrew her last look from the prospect , came to her memory . 
`` Could I but be certain , '' she had then said , `` that I should ever return , and that Valancourt would still live for me -- I should go in peace ! '' 
Now , that futurity , so anxiously anticipated ; was arrived , she was returned -- but what a dreary blank appeared ! 
-- Valancourt no longer lived for her ! 
She had no longer even the melancholy satisfaction of contemplating his image in her heart , for he was no longer the same Valancourt she had cherished there -- the solace of many a mournful hour , the animating friend , that had enabled her to bear up against the oppression of Montoni -- the distant hope , that had beamed over her gloomy prospect ! 
On perceiving this beloved idea to be an illusion of her own creation , Valancourt seemed to be annihilated , and her soul sickened at the blank , that remained . 
His marriage with a rival , even his death , she thought she could have endured with more fortitude , than this discovery ; for then , amidst all her grief , she could have looked in secret upon the image of goodness , which her fancy had drawn of him , and comfort would have mingled with her suffering ! 
Drying her tears , she looked , once more , upon the landscape , which had excited them , and perceived , that she was passing the very bank , where she had taken leave of Valancourt , on the morning of her departure from Tholouse , and she now saw him , through her returning tears , such as he had appeared , when she looked from the carriage to give him a last adieu -- saw him leaning mournfully against the high trees , and remembered the fixed look of mingled tenderness and anguish , with which he had then regarded her . 
This recollection was too much for her heart , and she sunk back in the carriage , nor once looked up , till it stopped at the gates of what was now her own mansion . 
These being opened , and by the servant , to whose care the chateau had been entrusted , the carriage drove into the court , where , alighting , she hastily passed through the great hall , now silent and solitary , to a large oak parlour , the common sitting room of the late Madame Montoni , where , instead of being received by M. Quesnel , she found a letter from him , informing her , that business of consequence had obliged him to leave Tholouse two days before . 
Emily was , upon the whole , not sorry to be spared his presence , since his abrupt departure appeared to indicate the same indifference , with which he had formerly regarded her . 
This letter informed her , also , of the progress he had made in the settlement of her affairs , and concluded with directions , concerning the forms of some business , which remained for her to transact . 
But M. Quesnel 's unkindness did not long occupy her thoughts , which returned to the remembrance of the persons she had been accustomed to see in this mansion , and chiefly of the ill-guided and unfortunate Madame Montoni . 
In the room , where she now sat , she had breakfasted with her on the morning of their departure for Italy ; and the view of it brought most forcibly to her recollection all she had herself suffered , at that time , and the many gay expectations , which her aunt had formed , respecting the journey before her . 
While Emily 's mind was thus engaged , her eyes wandered unconsciously to a large window , that looked upon the garden , and here new memorials of the past spoke to her heart , for she saw extended before her the very avenue , in which she had parted with Valancourt , on the eve of her journey ; and all the anxiety , the tender interest he had shewn , concerning her future happiness , his earnest remonstrances against her committing herself to the power of Montoni , and the truth of his affection , came afresh to her memory . 
At this moment , it appeared almost impossible , that Valancourt could have become unworthy of her regard , and she doubted all that she had lately heard to his disadvantage , and even his own words , which had confirmed Count De Villefort 's report of him . 
Overcome by the recollections , which the view of this avenue occasioned , she turned abruptly from the window , and sunk into a chair beside it , where she sat , given up to grief , till the entrance of Annette , with coffee , aroused her . 
This was not the moment , in which Emily could bear the remark ; her tears fell again , and , as soon as she had taken the coffee , she retired to her apartment , where she endeavoured to repose her fatigued spirits . 
But busy memory would still supply her with the visions of former times : she saw Valancourt interesting and benevolent , as he had been wont to appear in the days of their early love , and , amidst the scenes , where she had believed that they should sometimes pass their years together ! 
-- but , at length , sleep closed these afflicting scenes from her view . 
On the following morning , serious occupation recovered her from such melancholy reflections ; for , being desirous of quitting Tholouse , and of hastening on to La Vallée , she made some enquiries into the condition of the estate , and immediately dispatched a part of the necessary business concerning it , according to the directions of Mons . 
It required a strong effort to abstract her thoughts from other interests sufficiently to attend to this , but she was rewarded for her exertions by again experiencing , that employment is the surest antidote to sorrow . 
This day was devoted entirely to business ; and , among other concerns , she employed means to learn the situation of all her poor tenants , that she might relieve their wants , or confirm their comforts . 
In the evening , her spirits were so much strengthened , that she thought she could bear to visit the gardens , where she had so often walked with Valancourt ; and , knowing , that , if she delayed to do so , their scenes would only affect her the more , whenever they should be viewed , she took advantage of the present state of her mind , and entered them . 
Passing hastily the gate leading from the court into the gardens , she hurried up the great avenue , scarcely permitting her memory to dwell for a moment on the circumstance of her having here parted with Valancourt , and soon quitted this for other walks less interesting to her heart . 
These brought her , at length , to the flight of steps , that led from the lower garden to the terrace , on seeing which , she became agitated , and hesitated whether to ascend , but , her resolution returning , she proceeded . 
said Emily , as she ascended , `` these are the same high trees , that used to wave over the terrace , and these the same flowery thickets -- the liburnum , the wild rose , and the cerinthe -- which were wont to grow beneath them ! 
-- She checked the thought , but could not restrain her tears , and , after walking slowly on for a few moment , her agitation , upon the view of this well-known scene , increased so much , that she was obliged to stop , and lean upon the wall of the terrace . 
The sun was setting over the extensive landscape , to which his beams , sloping from beneath a dark cloud , that overhung the west , gave rich and partial colouring , and touched the tufted summits of the groves , that rose from the garden below , with a yellow gleam . 
Emily and Valancourt had often admired together this scene , at the same hour ; and it was exactly on this spot , that , on the night preceding her departure for Italy , she had listened to his remonstrances against the journey , and to the pleadings of passionate affection . 
Some observation , which she made on the landscape , brought this to her remembrance , and with it all the minute particulars of that conversation ; -- the alarming doubts he had expressed concerning Montoni , doubts , which had since been fatally confirmed ; the reasons and entreaties he had employed to prevail with her to consent to an immediate marriage ; the tenderness of his love , the paroxysms of his grief , and the conviction he had repeatedly expressed , that they should never meet again in happiness ! 
All these circumstances rose afresh to her mind , and awakened the various emotions she had then suffered . 
Her tenderness for Valancourt became as powerful as in the moments , when she thought , that she was parting with him and happiness together , and when the strength of her mind had enabled her to triumph over present suffering , rather than to deserve the reproach of her conscience by engaging in a clandestine marriage . 
said Emily , as these recollections came to her mind , `` and what have I gained by the fortitude I then practised ? 
Her reflections increased her anguish , while she was compelled to acknowledge , that the fortitude she had formerly exerted , if it had not conducted her to happiness , had saved her from irretrievable misfortune -- from Valancourt himself ! 
But in these moments she could not congratulate herself on the prudence , that had saved her ; she could only lament , with bitterest anguish , the circumstances , which had conspired to betray Valancourt into a course of life so different from that , which the virtues , the taste , and the pursuits of his early years had promised ; but she still loved him too well to believe , that his heart was even now depraved , though his conduct had been criminal . 
`` This young man , '' said he , speaking of Valancourt , `` has never been at Paris ; '' a remark , that had surprised her at the time it was uttered , but which she now understood , and she exclaimed sorrowfully , `` O Valancourt ! 
Emily came , at length , to the steps of the pavilion , that terminated the terrace , and where her last interview with Valancourt , before her departure from Tholouse , had so unexpectedly taken place . 
The door was now shut , and she trembled , while she hesitated whether to open it ; but her wish to see again a place , which had been the chief scene of her former happiness , at length overcoming her reluctance to encounter the painful regret it would renew , she entered . 
A chair was placed near one of the balconies , as if some person had been sitting there , but the other furniture of the pavilion remained exactly as usual , and Emily thought it looked as if it had not once been moved since she set out for Italy . 
The silent and deserted air of the place added solemnity to her emotions , for she heard only the low whisper of the breeze , as it shook the leaves of the vines , and the very faint murmur of the Garonne . 
She seated herself in a chair , near the lattice , and yielded to the sadness of her heart , while she recollected the circumstances of her parting interview with Valancourt , on this spot . 
It was here too , that she had passed some of the happiest hours of her life with him , when her aunt favoured the connection , for here she had often sat and worked , while he conversed , or read ; and she now well remembered with what discriminating judgment , with what tempered energy , he used to repeat some of the sublimest passages of their favourite authors ; how often he would pause to admire with her their excellence , and with what tender delight he would listen to her remarks , and correct her taste . 
`` And is it possible , '' said Emily , as these recollections returned -- `` is it possible , that a mind , so susceptible of whatever is grand and beautiful , could stoop to low pursuits , and be subdued by frivolous temptations ? '' 
She remembered how often she had seen the sudden tear start in his eye , and had heard his voice tremble with emotion , while he related any great or benevolent action , or repeated a sentiment of the same character . 
`` And such a mind , '' said she , `` such a heart , were to be sacrificed to the habits of a great city ! '' 
These recollections becoming too painful to be endured , she abruptly left the pavilion , and , anxious to escape from the memorials of her departed happiness , returned towards the chateau . 
As she passed along the terrace , she perceived a person , walking , with a slow step , and a dejected air , under the trees , at some distance . 
The twilight , which was now deep , would not allow her to distinguish who it was , and she imagined it to be one of the servants , till , the sound of her steps seeming to reach him , he turned half round , and she thought she saw Valancourt ! 
Whoever it was , he instantly struck among the thickets on the left , and disappeared , while Emily , her eyes fixed on the place , whence he had vanished , and her frame trembling so excessively , that she could scarcely support herself , remained , for some moments , unable to quit the spot , and scarcely conscious of existence . 
With her recollection , her strength returned , and she hurried toward the house , where she did not venture to enquire who had been in the gardens , lest she should betray her emotion ; and she sat down alone , endeavouring to recollect the figure , air and features of the person she had just seen . 
Her view of him , however , had been so transient , and the gloom had rendered it so imperfect , that she could remember nothing with exactness ; yet the general appearance of his figure , and his abrupt departure , made her still believe , that this person was Valancourt . 
Sometimes , indeed , she thought , that her fancy , which had been occupied by the idea of him , had suggested his image to her uncertain sight : but this conjecture was fleeting . 
If it was himself , whom she had seen , she wondered much , that he should be at Tholouse , and more , how he had gained admittance into the garden ; but as often as her impatience prompted her to enquire whether any stranger had been admitted , she was restrained by an unwillingness to betray her doubts ; and the evening was passed in anxious conjecture , and in efforts to dismiss the subject from her thoughts . 
But , these endeavours were ineffectual , and a thousand inconsistent emotions assailed her , whenever she fancied that Valancourt might be near her ; now , she dreaded it to be true , and now she feared it to be false ; and , while she constantly tried to persuade herself , that she wished the person , whom she had seen , might not be Valancourt , her heart as constantly contradicted her reason . 
The following day was occupied by the visits of several neighbouring families , formerly intimate with Madame Montoni , who came to condole with Emily on her death , to congratulate her upon the acquisition of these estates , and to enquire about Montoni , and concerning the strange reports they had heard of her own situation ; all which was done with the utmost decorum , and the visitors departed with as much composure as they had arrived . 
Emily was wearied by these formalities , and disgusted by the subservient manners of many persons , who had thought her scarcely worthy of common attention , while she was believed to be a dependant on Madame Montoni . 
`` Surely , '' said she , `` there is some magic in wealth , which can thus make persons pay their court to it , when it does not even benefit themselves . 
It was evening , before she was left alone , and she then wished to have refreshed her spirits in the free air of her garden ; but she feared to go thither , lest she should meet again the person , whom she had seen on the preceding night , and he should prove to be Valancourt . 
The suspense and anxiety she suffered , on this subject , she found all her efforts unable to controul , and her secret wish to see Valancourt once more , though unseen by him , powerfully prompted her to go , but prudence and a delicate pride restrained her , and she determined to avoid the possibility of throwing herself in his way , by forbearing to visit the gardens , for several days . 
When , after near a week , she again ventured thither , she made Annette her companion , and confined her walk to the lower grounds , but often started as the leaves rustled in the breeze , imagining , that some person was among the thickets ; and , at the turn of every alley , she looked forward with apprehensive expectation . 
She pursued her walk thoughtfully and silently , for her agitation would not suffer her to converse with Annette , to whom , however , thought and silence were so intolerable , that she did not scruple at length to talk to her mistress . 
said Emily , in a faltering voice , and trying to command her emotion . 
`` The night before last , you know , madam '' -- `` I know nothing , Annette , '' replied her lady in a more hurried voice . 
said Emily , in an eager , yet doubting tone . 
rejoined Emily , looking round her , and turning back towards the chateau . 
exclaimed Emily . 
`` But the gun , '' said Emily -- `` the gun ! '' 
exclaimed Emily . 
Jean followed it , that he might find out where the man got into the garden , but it was lost in the grass , and '' -- Annette was interrupted : for Emily 's spirits died away , and she would have fallen to the ground , if the girl had not caught her , and supported her to a bench , close to them . 
When , after a long absence , her senses returned , Emily desired to be led to her apartment ; and , though she trembled with anxiety to enquire further on the subject of her alarm , she found herself too ill at present , to dare the intelligence which it was possible she might receive of Valancourt . 
She had , indeed , scarcely a doubt , that it was he whom she had seen , and at whom the gardener had fired : for the manner of the latter person , as described by Annette , was not that of a robber ; nor did it appear probable , that a robber would have come alone , to break into a house so spacious as this . 
When Emily thought herself sufficiently recovered , to listen to what Jean might have to relate , she sent for him ; but he could inform her of no circumstance , that might lead to a knowledge of the person , who had been shot , or of the consequence of the wound ; and , after severely reprimanding him , for having fired with bullets , and ordering diligent enquiry to be made in the neighbourhood for the discovery of the wounded person , she dismissed him , and herself remained in the same state of terrible suspense . 
All the tenderness she had ever felt for Valancourt , was recalled by the sense of his danger ; and the more she considered the subject , the more her conviction strengthened , that it was he , who had visited the gardens , for the purpose of soothing the misery of disappointed affection , amidst the scenes of his former happiness . 
Emily shuddered , and lamented bitterly the rashness of the gardener in having fired . 
`` No more of this , '' said Emily , `` pray leave me . '' 
Annette obeyed , and Emily returned to the agonizing considerations , that had assailed her before , but which she , at length , endeavoured to sooth by a new remark . 
With this consideration , she endeavoured to support herself , during the enquiries , that were making by her servants in the neighbourhood ; but day after day came , and still closed in uncertainty , concerning this affair : and Emily , suffering in silence , at length , drooped , and sunk under the pressure of her anxiety . 
She was attacked by a slow fever , and when she yielded to the persuasion of Annette to send for medical advice , the physicians prescribed little beside air , gentle exercise and amusement : but how was this last to be obtained ? 
Emily , having replied to the letter of her friend , and said that she should be at La Vallée in a few days , made hasty preparations for the journey ; and , in thus leaving Tholouse , endeavoured to support herself with a belief , that , if any fatal accident had happened to Valancourt , she must in this interval have heard of it . 
On the evening before her departure , she went to take leave of the terrace and the pavilion . 
But the lovely prospect , which Emily beheld from the terrace , was no longer viewed by her with delight ; she sighed deeply as her eye wandered over it , and her spirits were in a state of such dejection , that she could not think of her approaching return to La Vallée , without tears , and seemed to mourn again the death of her father , as if it had been an event of yesterday . 
Having reached the pavilion , she seated herself at the open lattice , and , while her eyes settled on the distant mountains , that overlooked Gascony , still gleaming on the horizon , though the sun had now left the plains below , `` Alas ! '' 
said she , `` I return to your long-lost scenes , but shall meet no more the parents , that were wont to render them delightful ! 
Tears stole down her cheek , as the remembrance of what that home had been , returned to her ; but , after indulging her sorrow for some time , she checked it , accusing herself of ingratitude in forgetting the friends , that she possessed , while she lamented those that were departed ; and she , at length , left the pavilion and the terrace , without having observed a shadow of Valancourt or of any other person . 
On the following morning , Emily left Tholouse at an early hour , and reached La Vallée about sun-set . 
With the melancholy she experienced on the review of a place which had been the residence of her parents , and the scene of her earliest delight , was mingled , after the first shock had subsided , a tender and undescribable pleasure . 
For time had so far blunted the acuteness of her grief , that she now courted every scene , that awakened the memory of her friends ; in every room , where she had been accustomed to see them , they almost seemed to live again ; and she felt that La Vallée was still her happiest home . 
One of the first apartments she visited , was that , which had been her father 's library , and here she seated herself in his arm-chair , and , while she contemplated , with tempered resignation , the picture of past times , which her memory gave , the tears she shed could scarcely be called those of grief . 
Soon after her arrival , she was surprised by a visit from the venerable M. Barreaux , who came impatiently to welcome the daughter of his late respected neighbour , to her long-deserted home . 
Emily was comforted by the presence of an old friend , and they passed an interesting hour in conversing of former times , and in relating some of the circumstances , that had occurred to each , since they parted . 
The evening was so far advanced , when M. Barreaux left Emily , that she could not visit the garden that night ; but , on the following morning , she traced its long-regretted scenes with fond impatience ; and , as she walked beneath the groves , which her father had planted , and where she had so often sauntered in affectionate conversation with him , his countenance , his smile , even the accents of his voice , returned with exactness to her fancy , and her heart melted to the tender recollections . 
As she wandered pensively on , she fancied the following address One of Emily 's earliest enquiries , after her arrival at La Vallée , was concerning Theresa , her father 's old servant , whom it may be remembered that M. Quesnel had turned from the house when it was let , without any provision . 
Understanding that she lived in a cottage at no great distance , Emily walked thither , and , on approaching , was pleased to see , that her habitation was pleasantly situated on a green slope , sheltered by a tuft of oaks , and had an appearance of comfort and extreme neatness . 
She found the old woman within , picking vine-stalks , who , on perceiving her young mistress , was nearly overcome with joy . 
said she , `` I thought I should never see you again in this world , when I heard you was gone to that outlandish country . 
Emily lamented the circumstance , and then assured her , that she would make her latter days comfortable , and expressed satisfaction , on seeing her in so pleasant an habitation . 
said Emily : `` whoever it was , I shall consider him as mine also . '' 
Emily was affected by this mention of her father , which Theresa observing , changed the subject . 
Emily now mentioned her death . 
Emily was much agitated . 
And then -- '' `` It is enough , Theresa , '' said Emily . 
A deep sigh escaped from Emily . 
`` No more of this trifling , '' said Emily , awakening from her reverie : `` it displeases me : '' `` But , when M. Quesnel let the chateau , I thought it would have broke the Chevalier 's heart . '' 
`` Theresa , '' said Emily seriously , `` you must name the Chevalier no more ! '' 
`` Perhaps your love was not well bestowed , then , '' replied Emily , trying to conceal her tears ; `` but , however that might be , we shall meet no more . '' 
said Emily , trembling extremely . 
said Emily , and wept the more . 
enquired Emily , with increased emotion . 
Emily 's anxiety , as to the fate of Valancourt , was now scarcely endurable , and , since propriety would not suffer her to send to the chateau of his brother , she requested that Theresa would immediately hire some person to go to his steward from herself , and , when he asked for the quarterage due to her , to make enquiries concerning Valancourt . 
But she first made Theresa promise never to mention her name in this affair , or ever with that of the Chevalier Valancourt ; and her former faithfulness to M. St. Aubert induced Emily to confide in her assurances . 
Theresa now joyfully undertook to procure a person for this errand , and then Emily , after giving her a sum of money to supply her with present comforts , returned , with spirits heavily oppressed , to her home , lamenting , more than ever , that an heart , possessed of so much benevolence as Valancourt 's , should have been contaminated by the vices of the world , but affected by the delicate affection , which his kindness to her old servant expressed for herself . 
-- The bats alone , of all the animals inhabiting this region , seemed awake ; and , while they flitted across the silent path , which Blanche was pursuing , she remembered the following lines , which Emily had given her : To a warm imagination , the dubious forms , that float , half veiled in darkness , afford a higher delight , than the most distinct scenery , that the sun can shew . 
Emily , mean while , was still suffering anxiety as to the fate of Valancourt ; but Theresa , having , at length , found a person , whom she could entrust on her errand to the steward , informed her , that the messenger would return on the following day ; and Emily promised to be at the cottage , Theresa being too lame to attend her . 
In the evening , therefore , Emily set out alone for the cottage , with a melancholy foreboding , concerning Valancourt , while , perhaps , the gloom of the hour might contribute to depress her spirits . 
It was a grey autumnal evening towards the close of the season ; heavy mists partially obscured the mountains , and a chilling breeze , that sighed among the beech woods , strewed her path with some of their last yellow leaves . 
These , circling in the blast and foretelling the death of the year , gave an image of desolation to her mind , and , in her fancy , seemed to announce the death of Valancourt . 
Of this she had , indeed , more than once so strong a presentiment , that she was on the point of returning home , feeling herself unequal to an encounter with the certainty she anticipated , but , contending with her emotions , she so far commanded them , as to be able to proceed . 
While she walked mournfully on , gazing on the long volumes of vapour , that poured upon the sky , and watching the swallows , tossed along the wind , now disappearing among tempestuous clouds , and then emerging , for a moment , in circles upon the calmer air , the afflictions and vicissitudes of her late life seemed pourtrayed in these fleeting images ; -- thus had she been tossed upon the stormy sea of misfortune for the last year , with but short intervals of peace , if peace that could be called , which was only the delay of evils . 
And now , when she had escaped from so many dangers , was become independent of the will of those , who had oppressed her , and found herself mistress of a large fortune , now , when she might reasonably have expected happiness , she perceived that she was as distant from it as ever . 
Through the casement appeared the cheerful blaze of a wood fire , and Theresa , who had observed Emily approaching , was already at the door to receive her . 
Emily , thanking her for this consideration , sat down , and then , looking in her face , on which the wood fire threw a gleam , she was struck with its expression , and , unable to speak , sunk back in her chair with a countenance so full of woe , that Theresa instantly comprehended the occasion of it , but she remained silent . 
said Emily , at length , `` it is unnecessary for me to ask the result of your enquiry , your silence , and that look , sufficiently explain it ; -- he is dead ! '' 
-- interrupted Emily -- `` Valancourt is dead ! '' 
said Emily , `` do you only fear ? '' 
I am old , and might have died without being missed , but he '' -- Emily was faint , and asked for some water , and Theresa , alarmed by the voice , in which she spoke , hastened to her assistance , and , while she held the water to Emily 's lips , continued , `` My dear young mistress , do not take it so to heart ; the Chevalier may be alive and well , for all this ; let us hope the best ! '' 
I can not hope , '' said Emily , I am acquainted with circumstances , that will not suffer me to hope . 
`` O no , Theresa , tell me all , while I have the power to hear it , '' said Emily , `` tell me all , I conjure you ! '' 
said Emily . 
Emily , who no longer considered it to be dangerous to listen to praise , bestowed on Valancourt , did not attempt to interrupt Theresa , but sat , attentive to her words , though almost overwhelmed with grief . 
Theresa paused , and Emily , sighing deeply , remained with her eyes fixed upon the floor , without speaking . 
After a long pause , she enquired what further Theresa had heard . 
These words , and the countenance of despair which accompanied them , alarmed Theresa , who began to fear , that the shock of the intelligence Emily had just received , had affected her senses . 
`` My dear young lady , be composed , '' said she , `` and do not say such frightful words . 
Emily replied only by a heavy sigh . 
Emily was still silent , and did not appear to hear any thing that was said to her . 
At the mention of his name , Emily raised her eyes , and fixed them , in a wild gaze , upon Theresa , as if she was endeavouring to understand what had been said , `` Aye , my dear lady , '' said Theresa , mistaking the meaning of this considerate air , `` M. Valancourt may be alive and merry yet . '' 
On the repetition of these words , Emily comprehended their import , but , instead of producing the effect intended , they seemed only to heighten her distress . 
She rose hastily from her chair , paced the little room , with quick steps , and , often sighing deeply , clasped her hands , and shuddered . 
Meanwhile , Theresa , with simple , but honest affection , endeavoured to comfort her ; put more wood on the fire , stirred it up into a brighter blaze , swept the hearth , set the chair , which Emily had left , in a warmer situation , and then drew forth from a cupboard a flask of wine . 
`` It is a stormy night , madam , '' said she , `` and blows cold -- do come nearer the fire , and take a glass of this wine ; it will comfort you , as it has done me , often and often , for it is not such wine as one gets every day ; it is rich Languedoc , and the last of six flasks that M. Valancourt sent me , the night before he left Gascony for Paris . 
Emily still paced the room , without seeming to hear what Theresa said , who continued speaking . 
Her grief seemed to recall Emily from her own , who went towards her , but then stopped , and , having gazed on her , for a moment , turned suddenly away , as if overwhelmed by the reflection , that it was Valancourt , whom Theresa lamented . 
While she yet paced the room , the still , soft note of an oboe , or flute , was heard mingling with the blast , the sweetness of which affected Emily 's spirits , she paused a moment in attention ; the tender tones , as they swelled along the wind , till they were lost again in the ruder gust , came with a plaintiveness , that touched her hear , and the melted into tears . 
Emily continued to weep , without replying . 
do not cry so ; and pray take a glass of this wine , '' continued she , pouring some into a glass , and handling it to Emily , who reluctantly took it . 
`` Taste it for M. Valancourt 's sake , '' said Theresa , as Emily lifted the glass to her lips , `` for he gave it me , you know , madam . '' 
Emily 's hand trembled , and she spilt the wine as she withdrew it from her lips . 
said she in a faltering voice . 
Emily set the wine upon the table , and burst into tears , while Theresa , disappointed and alarmed , tried to comfort her ; but she only waved her hand , entreated she might be left alone , and wept the more . 
A knock at the cottage door prevented Theresa from immediately obeying her mistress , and she was going to open it , when Emily , checking her , requested she would not admit any person ; but , afterwards , recollecting , that she had ordered her servant to attend her home , she said it was only Philippe , and endeavoured to restrain her tears , while Theresa opened the door . 
A voice , that spoke without , drew Emily 's attention . 
She listened , turned her eyes to the door , when a person now appeared , and immediately a bright gleam , that flashed from the fire , discovered -- Valancourt ! 
Emily , on perceiving him , started from her chair , trembled , and , sinking into it again , became insensible to all around her . 
A scream from Theresa now told , that she knew Valancourt , whom her imperfect sight , and the duskiness of the place had prevented her from immediately recollecting ; but his attention was immediately called from her to the person , whom he saw , falling from a chair near the fire ; and , hastening to her assistance , -- he perceived , that he was supporting Emily ! 
The various emotions , that seized him upon thus unexpectedly meeting with her , from whom he had believed he had parted for ever , and on beholding her pale and lifeless in his arms -- may , perhaps , be imagined , though they could neither be then expressed , or now described , any more than Emily 's sensations , when , at length , she unclosed her eyes , and , looking up , again saw Valancourt . 
The intense anxiety , with which he regarded her , was instantly changed to an expression of mingled joy and tenderness , as his eye met hers , and he perceived , that she was reviving . 
But he could only exclaim , `` Emily ! '' 
as he silently watched her recovery , while she averted her eye , and feebly attempted to withdraw her hand ; but , in these the first moments , which succeeded to the pangs his supposed death had occasioned her , she forgot every fault , which had formerly claimed indignation , and beholding Valancourt such as he appeared , when he won her early affection , she experienced emotions of only tenderness and joy . 
was but the sunshine of a few short moments ; recollections rose , like clouds , upon her mind , and , darkening the illusive image , that possessed it , she again beheld Valancourt , degraded -- Valancourt unworthy of the esteem and tenderness she had once bestowed upon him ; her spirits faltered , and , withdrawing her hand , she turned from him to conceal her grief , while he , yet more embarrassed and agitated , remained silent . 
A sense of what she owed to herself restrained her tears , and taught her soon to overcome , in some degree , the emotions of mingled joy and sorrow , that contended at her heart , as she rose , and , having thanked him for the assistance he had given her , bade Theresa good evening . 
Emily 's heart , perhaps , pleaded as powerfully , but she had resolution enough to resist both , together with the clamorous entreaties of Theresa , that she would not venture home alone in the dark , and had already opened the cottage door , when the pelting storm compelled her to obey their requests . 
My young mistress there was crying , fit to break her heart -- '' Emily looked with much displeasure at Theresa , but , before she could speak , Valancourt , unable to repress the emotion , which Theresa 's imprudent discovery occasioned , exclaimed , `` O my Emily ! 
`` Theresa , sir , '' said Emily , with a reserved air , and trying to conquer her tears , `` has reason to remember you with gratitude , and she was concerned , because she had not lately heard of you . 
`` Emily ! '' 
said Theresa , preventing Emily from replying , `` talk of once having her affections ! 
said Emily ; `` Theresa , you know not what you say . 
Yet I have been , O Emily ! 
Emily , in extreme vexation , now rose from her chair , `` I must be gone , '' said she , `` the storm is over . '' 
`` Stay , Emily , stay , mademoiselle St. Aubert ! '' 
May you be happy , Emily , however wretched I remain , happy as my fondest wish would have you ! '' 
His voice faltered with the last words , and his countenance changed , while , with a look of ineffable tenderness and grief , he gazed upon her for an instant , and then quitted the cottage . 
Emily made no reply , for she heard not what was said , while , lost in sorrow and thought , she remained in her chair by the fire , with her eyes fixed , and the image of Valancourt still before them . 
Emily raised her eyes at these words , for she had not observed this last circumstance , and she now did not doubt , that Valancourt had received the shot of her gardener at Tholouse ; with this conviction her pity for him returning , she blamed herself for having occasioned him to leave the cottage , during the storm . 
Soon after her servants arrived with the carriage , and Emily , having censured Theresa for her thoughtless conversation to Valancourt , and strictly charging her never to repeat any hints of the same kind to him , withdrew to her home , thoughtful and disconsolate . 
Meanwhile , Valancourt had returned to a little inn of the village , whither he had arrived only a few moments before his visit to Theresa 's cottage , on the way from Tholouse to the chateau of the Count de Duvarney , where he had not been since he bade adieu to Emily at Chateau-le-Blanc , in the neighbourhood of which he had lingered for a considerable time , unable to summon resolution enough to quit a place , that contained the object most dear to his heart . 
There were times , indeed , when grief and despair urged him to appear again before Emily , and , regardless of his ruined circumstances , to renew his suit . 
Pride , however , and the tenderness of his affection , which could not long endure the thought of involving her in his misfortunes , at length , so far triumphed over passion , that he relinquished this desperate design , and quitted Chateau le Blanc . 
But still his fancy wandered among the scenes , which had witnessed his early love , and , on his way to Gascony , he stopped at Tholouse , where he remained when Emily arrived , concealing , yet indulging his melancholy in the gardens , where he had formerly passed with her so many happy hours ; often recurring , with vain regret , to the evening before her departure for Italy , when she had so unexpectedly met him on the terrace , and endeavouring to recall to his memory every word and look , which had then charmed him , the arguments he had employed to dissuade her from the journey , and the tenderness of their last farewel . 
In such melancholy recollections he had been indulging , when Emily unexpectedly appeared to him on this very terrace , the evening after her arrival at Tholouse . 
His emotions , on thus seeing her , can scarcely be imagined ; but he so far overcame the first promptings of love , that he forbore to discover himself , and abruptly quitted the gardens . 
Still , however , the vision he had seen haunted his mind ; he became more wretched than before , and the only solace of his sorrow was to return in the silence or the night ; to follow the paths which he believed her steps had pressed , during the day ; and , to watch round the habitation where she reposed . 
There , regardless of himself and careless of his friends , whose late unkindness had urged him to believe , that they were indifferent as to his fate , he remained , without informing them of his situation ; and now , being sufficiently recovered to bear travelling , he had taken La Vallée in his way to Estuviere , the Count 's residence , partly for the purpose of hearing of Emily , and of being again near her , and partly for that of enquiring into the situation of poor old Theresa , who , he had reason to suppose , had been deprived of her stipend , small as it was , and which enquiry had brought him to her cottage , when Emily happened to be there . 
This unexpected interview , which had at once shewn him the tenderness of her love and the strength of her resolution , renewed all the acuteness of the despair , that had attended their former separation , and which no effort of reason could teach him , in these moments , to subdue . 
Her image , her look , the tones of her voice , all dwelt on his fancy , as powerfully as they had lately appeared to his senses , and banished from his heart every emotion , except those of love and despair . 
Before the evening concluded , he returned to Theresa 's cottage , that he might hear her talk of Emily , and be in the place , where she had so lately been . 
After he had listened , and for a considerable time , to all she had to relate , concerning Emily , he gave Theresa nearly all the money he had about him , though she repeatedly refused it , declaring , that her mistress had amply supplied her wants ; and then , drawing a ring of value from his finger , he delivered it her with a solemn charge to present it to Emily , of whom he entreated , as a last favour , that she would preserve it for his sake , and sometimes , when she looked upon it , remember the unhappy giver . 
On the following morning , as Emily sat in the parlour adjoining the library , reflecting on the scene of the preceding night , Annette rushed wildly into the room , and , without speaking , sunk breathless into a chair . 
It was some time before she could answer the anxious enquiries of Emily , as to the occasion of her emotion , but , at length , she exclaimed , `` I have seen his ghost , madam , I have seen his ghost ! '' 
said Emily , with extreme impatience . 
repeated Emily , `` Who came in from the hall ? '' 
who could have thought -- '' Emily 's patience was now exhausted , and she was reprimanding her for such idle fancies , when a servant entered the room , and informed her , that a stranger without begged leave to speak with her . 
It immediately occurred to Emily , that this stranger was Valancourt , and she told the servant to inform him , that she was engaged , and could not see any person . 
Emily bade the servant follow her , and , if it really was Ludovico , to shew him into the parlour . 
Emily expressed surprise and satisfaction , on seeing Ludovico in safety , and the first emotions increased , when he delivered letters from Count De Villefort and the Lady Blanche , informing her of their late adventure , and of their present situation at an inn among the Pyrenés , where they had been detained by the illness of Mons . 
She added , that Emily 's presence would be expected at the approaching nuptials , and begged she would be prepared to proceed , in a few days , to Chateau-le-Blanc . 
For an account of Ludovico 's adventure , she referred her to himself ; and Emily , though much interested , concerning the means , by which he had disappeared from the north apartments , had the forbearance to suspend the gratification of her curiosity , till he had taken some refreshment , and had conversed with Annette , whose joy , on seeing him in safety , could not have been more extravagant , had he arisen from the grave . 
Meanwhile , Emily perused again the letters of her friends , whose expressions of esteem and kindness were very necessary consolations to her heart , awakened as it was by the late interview to emotions of keener sorrow and regret . 
The invitation to Chateau-le-Blanc was pressed with so much kindness by the Count and his daughter , who strengthened it by a message from the Countess , and the occasion of it was so important to her friend , that Emily could not refuse to accept it , nor , though she wished to remain in the quiet shades of her native home , could she avoid perceiving the impropriety of remaining there alone , since Valancourt was again in the neighbourhood . 
Sometimes , too , she thought , that change of scenery and the society of her friends might contribute , more than retirement , to restore her to tranquillity . 
When Ludovico again appeared , she desired him to give a detail of his adventure in the north apartments , and to tell by what means he became a companion of the banditti , with whom the Count had found him . 
He immediately obeyed , while Annette , who had not yet had leisure to ask him many questions , on the subject , prepared to listen , with a countenance of extreme curiosity , venturing to remind her lady of her incredulity , concerning spirits , in the castle of Udolpho , and of her own sagacity in believing in them ; while Emily , blushing at the consciousness of her late credulity , observed , that , if Ludovico 's adventure could justify Annette 's superstition , he had probably not been here to relate it . 
Ludovico smiled at Annette , and bowed to Emily , and then began as follows : `` You may remember , madam , that , on the night , when I sat up in the north chamber , my lord , the Count , and Mons . 
At the mention of this , Emily trembled , and looked anxiously , remembering the spectacle she had herself witnessed there with Dorothée . 
`` This door surprises me , '' said Emily , `` because I understood , that the Count had caused the arras to be lifted , and the walls examined , suspecting , that they might have concealed a passage through which you had departed . '' 
Ludovico smiled , and Emily also , who enquired what was the motive of these men for carrying him off . 
`` But why , '' said Emily , `` were not these pirates contented with the cave -- why did they think it necessary to deposit their spoil in the castle ? '' 
`` This is an extraordinary adventure , '' said Emily , and much praise is due , Ludovico , to your prudence and intrepidity . 
A blush overspread Emily 's cheek , and she impatiently desired Ludovico to explain himself . 
Emily could not forbear smiling at this explanation of the deception , which had given her so much superstitious terror ; and was surprised , that she could have suffered herself to be thus alarmed , till she considered , that , when the mind has once begun to yield to the weakness of superstition , trifles impress it with the force of conviction . 
Still , however , she remembered with awe the mysterious music , which had been heard , at midnight , near Chateau-le-Blanc , and she asked Ludovico if he could give any explanation of it ; but he could not . 
`` It can not be denied , that his spirits were very busy in that part of the chateau , '' replied Emily , smiling . 
Emily , recollecting the change , that had appeared in the spirits of the Count , after the night , when he had watched in the north room , now perceived the cause of it ; and , having made some further enquiries upon this strange affair , she dismissed Ludovico , and went to give orders for the accommodation of her friends , on the following day . 
In the evening , Theresa , lame as she was , came to deliver the ring , with which Valancourt had entrusted her , and , when she presented it , Emily was much affected , for she remembered to have seen him wear it often in happier days . 
She was , however , much displeased , that Theresa had received it , and positively refused to accept it herself , though to have done so would have afforded her a melancholy pleasure . 
Theresa entreated , expostulated , and then described the distress of Valancourt , when he had given the ring , and repeated the message , with which he had commissioned her to deliver it ; and Emily could not conceal the extreme sorrow this recital occasioned her , but wept , and remained lost in thought . 
Emily waved her hand for Theresa to be silent , who , disregarding the signal , continued , `` And how much you are alike in your tempers and ways , and , that , if you were married , you would be the happiest couple in the whole province -- then what is there to prevent your marrying ? 
Age and long services had given Theresa a privilege to talk , but Emily now endeavoured to check her loquacity , and , though she felt the justness of some of her remarks , did not choose to explain the circumstances , that had determined her conduct towards Valancourt . 
She , therefore , only told Theresa , that it would much displease her to hear the subject renewed ; that she had reasons for her conduct , which she did not think it proper to mention , and that the ring must be returned , with an assurance , that she could not accept it with propriety ; and , at the same time , she forbade Theresa to repeat any future message from Valancourt , as she valued her esteem and kindness . 
Theresa was afflicted , and made another attempt , though feeble , to interest her for Valancourt , but the unusual displeasure , expressed in Emily 's countenance , soon obliged her to desist , and she departed in wonder and lamentation . 
To relieve her mind , in some degree , from the painful recollections , that intruded upon it , Emily busied herself in preparations for the journey into Languedoc , and , while Annette , who assisted her , spoke with joy and affection of the safe return of Ludovico , she was considering how she might best promote their happiness , and determined , if it appeared , that his affection was as unchanged as that of the simple and honest Annette , to give her a marriage portion , and settle them on some part of her estate . 
To the estate at Tholouse she had no peculiar attachment , and it was her wish to dispose of this , that she might purchase her paternal domains , if M. Quesnel could be prevailed on to part with them , which , as he talked much of living in Italy , did not appear very improbable . 
On the following day , the arrival of her friend revived the drooping Emily , and La Vallée became once more the scene of social kindness and of elegant hospitality . 
Illness and the terror she had suffered had stolen from Blanche much of her sprightliness , but all her affectionate simplicity remained , and , though she appeared less blooming , she was not less engaging than before . 
The unfortunate adventure on the Pyrenées had made the Count very anxious to reach home , and , after little more than a week 's stay at La Vallée , Emily prepared to set out with her friends for Languedoc , assigning the care of her house , during her absence , to Theresa . 
As she said this , her countenance expressed more alarm , than she dared to utter ; but Emily , checking her own propensity to fear , considered , that he had probably returned to the residence of his brother , and , again refusing to accept the ring , bade Theresa preserve it , till she saw him , which , with extreme reluctance , she promised to do . 
On the following day , Count De Villefort , with Emily and the Lady Blanche , left La Vallée , and , on the ensuing evening , arrived at the Chateau-le-Blanc , where the Countess , Henri , and M. Du Pont , whom Emily was surprised to find there , received them with much joy and congratulation . 
She was concerned to observe , that the Count still encouraged the hopes of his friend , whose countenance declared , that his affection had suffered no abatement from absence ; and was much distressed , when , on the second evening after her arrival , the Count , having withdrawn her from the Lady Blanche , with whom she was walking , renewed the subject of M. Du Pont 's hopes . 
The mildness , with which she listened to his intercessions at first , deceiving him , as to her sentiments , he began to believe , that , her affection for Valancourt being overcome , she was , at length , disposed to think favourably of M. Du Pont ; and , when she afterwards convinced him of his mistake , he ventured , in the earnestness of his wish to promote what he considered to be the happiness of two persons , whom he so much esteemed , gently to remonstrate with her , on thus suffering an ill-placed affection to poison the happiness of her most valuable years . 
Observing her silence and the deep dejection of her countenance , he concluded with saying , `` I will not say more now , but I will still believe , my dear Mademoiselle St. Aubert , that you will not always reject a person , so truly estimable as my friend Du Pont . '' 
He spared her the pain of replying , by leaving her ; and she strolled on , somewhat displeased with the Count for having persevered to plead for a suit , which she had repeatedly rejected , and lost amidst the melancholy recollections , which this topic had revived , till she had insensibly reached the borders of the woods , that screened the monastery of St. Clair , when , perceiving how far she had wandered , she determined to extend her walk a little farther , and to enquire after the abbess and some of her friends among the nuns . 
Though the evening was now drawing to a close , she accepted the invitation of the friar , who opened the gate , and , anxious to meet some of her old acquaintance , proceeded towards the convent parlour . 
As she crossed the lawn , that sloped from the front of the monastery towards the sea , she was struck with the picture of repose , exhibited by some monks , fitting in the cloisters , which extended under the brow of the woods , that crowned this eminence ; where , as they meditated , at this twilight hour , holy subjects , they sometimes suffered their attention to be relieved by the scene before them , nor thought it profane to look at nature , now that it had exchanged the brilliant colours of day for the sober hue of evening . 
As Emily walked pensively along , considering how much suffering she might have escaped , had she become a votaress of the order , and remained in this retirement from the time of her father 's death , the vesper-bell struck up , and the monks retired slowly toward the chapel , while she , pursuing her way , entered the great hall , where an unusual silence seemed to reign . 
The parlour too , which opened from it , she found vacant , but , as the evening bell was sounding , she believed the nuns had withdrawn into the chapel , and sat down to rest , for a moment , before she returned to the chateau , where , however , the increasing gloom made her now anxious to be . 
Not many minutes had elapsed , before a nun , entering in haste , enquired for the abbess , and was retiring , without recollecting Emily , when she made herself known , and then learned , that a mass was going to be performed for the soul of sister Agnes , who had been declining , for some time , and who was now believed to be dying . 
To this relation Emily listened with extreme concern , and , recollecting the frenzied manners and the expressions of horror , which she had herself witnessed of Agnes , together with the history , that sister Frances had communicated , her compassion was heightened to a very painful degree . 
As the evening was already far advanced , Emily did not now desire to see her , or to join in the mass , and , after leaving many kind remembrances with the nun , for her old friends , she quitted the monastery , and returned over the cliffs toward the chateau , meditating upon what she had just heard , till , at length she forced her mind upon less interesting subjects . 
The wind was high , and as she drew near the chateau , she often paused to listen to its awful sound , as it swept over the billows , that beat below , or groaned along the surrounding woods ; and , while she rested on a cliff at a short distance from the chateau , and looked upon the wide waters , seen dimly beneath the last shade of twilight , she thought of the following address On the following evening , the view of the convent towers , rising among the shadowy woods , reminded Emily of the nun , whose condition had so much affected her ; and , anxious to know how she was , as well as to see some of her former friends , she and the Lady Blanche extended their walk to the monastery . 
At the gate stood a carriage , which , from the heat of the horses , appeared to have just arrived ; but a more than common stillness pervaded the court and the cloisters , through which Emily and Blanche passed in their way to the great hall , where a nun , who was crossing to the stair-case , replied to the enquiries of the former , that sister Agnes was still living , and sensible , but that it was thought she could not survive the night . 
In the parlour , they found several of the boarders , who rejoiced to see Emily , and told her many little circumstances that had happened in the convent since her departure , and which were interesting to her only because they related to persons , whom she had regarded with affection . 
While they thus conversed , the abbess entered the room , and expressed much satisfaction at seeing Emily , but her manner was unusually solemn , and her countenance dejected . 
`` Our house , '' said she , after the first salutations were over , `` is truly a house of mourning -- a daughter is now paying the debt of nature . 
Emily expressed her sincere concern . 
Emily would have said , that good deeds , she hoped , were never vain ; but she considered that it was the abbess who spoke , and she remained silent . 
Emily fervently joined in the wish . 
Emily became grave and thoughtful ; for this conversation brought to her recollection the dying moments of her beloved father , and she wished once more to weep over the spot , where his remains were buried . 
During the silence , which followed the abbess 's speech , many minute circumstances attending his last hours occurred to her -- his emotion on perceiving himself to be in the neighbourhood of Chateau-le-Blanc -- his request to be interred in a particular spot in the church of this monastery -- and the solemn charge he had delivered her to destroy certain papers , without examining them . 
-- She recollected also the mysterious and horrible words in those manuscripts , upon which her eye had involuntarily glanced ; and , though they now , and , indeed , whenever she remembered them , revived an excess of painful curiosity , concerning their full import , and the motives for her father 's command , it was ever her chief consolation , that she had strictly obeyed him in this particular . 
Little more was said by the abbess , who appeared too much affected by the subject she had lately left , to be willing to converse , and her companions had been for some time silent from the same cause , when this general reverie was interrupted by the entrance of a stranger , Monsieur Bonnac , who had just quitted the chamber of sister Agnes . 
He appeared much disturbed , but Emily fancied , that his countenance had more the expression of horror , than of grief . 
Having drawn the abbess to a distant part of the room , he conversed with her for some time , during which she seemed to listen with earnest attention , and he to speak with caution , and a more than common degree of interest . 
The abbess , soon after , proposed going to the chamber of sister Agnes , to which Emily consented , though not without some reluctance , and Lady Blanche remained with the boarders below . 
At the door of the chamber they met the confessor , whom , as he lifted up his head on their approach , Emily observed to be the same that had attended her dying father ; but he passed on , without noticing her , and they entered the apartment , where , on a mattress , was laid sister Agnes , with one nun watching in the chair beside her . 
Her countenance was so much changed , that Emily would scarcely have recollected her , had she not been prepared to do so : it was ghastly , and overspread with gloomy horror ; her dim and hollow eyes were fixed on a crucifix , which she held upon her bosom ; and she was so much engaged in thought , as not to perceive the abbess and Emily , till they stood at the bed-side . 
Then , turning her heavy eyes , she fixed them , in wild horror , upon Emily ; and , screaming , exclaimed , `` Ah ! 
Emily started back in terror , and looked for explanation to the abbess , who made her a signal not to be alarmed , and calmly said to Agnes , `` Daughter , I have brought Mademoiselle St. Aubert to visit you : I thought you would be glad to see her . '' 
Agnes made no reply ; but , still gazing wildly upon Emily , exclaimed , `` It is her very self ! 
Emily , extremely shocked , would now have left the room ; but the abbess , taking her hand , tried to support her spirits , and begged she would stay a few moments , when Agnes would probably be calm , whom now she tried to sooth . 
But the latter seemed to disregard her , while she still fixed her eyes on Emily , and added , `` What are years of prayers and repentance ? 
Agnes sunk down , apparently lifeless , and Emily , unable to support herself , leaned against the bed , while the abbess and the attendant nun were applying the usual remedies to Agnes . 
`` Peace , '' said the abbess , when Emily was going to speak , `` the delirium is going off , she will soon revive . 
Emily very readily consented , but , though she could now give little assistance , she was unwilling to quit the chamber , while any might be necessary . 
When Agnes recovered her senses , she again fixed her eyes on Emily , but their wild expression was gone , and a gloomy melancholy had succeeded . 
It was some moments before she recovered sufficient spirits to speak ; she then said feebly -- `` The likeness is wonderful ! 
Tell me , I conjure you , '' she added , addressing Emily , `` though your name is St. Aubert , are you not the daughter of the Marchioness ? '' 
said Emily , in extreme surprise ; for she had imagined , from the calmness of Agnes 's manner , that her intellects were restored . 
Emily , remembering the emotion of her late father , upon the unexpected mention of this lady , and his request to be laid near the tomb of the Villerois , now felt greatly interested , and she entreated Agnes to explain the reason of her question . 
The abbess would now have withdrawn Emily from the room , who being , however , detained by a strong interest , repeated her entreaties . 
The nun brought the casket , and Agnes , having directed her how to unlock it , she took thence a miniature , in which Emily perceived the exact resemblance of the picture , which she had found among her late father 's papers . 
When she had finished , she returned the miniature to Emily . 
`` Keep it , '' said she , `` I bequeath it to you , for I must believe it is your right . 
Emily trembled with expectation , and the abbess again would have withdrawn her . 
`` Agnes is still disordered , '' said she , `` you observe how she wanders . 
Emily , however , thought she perceived something more than madness in the inconsistencies of Agnes , whose mention of the Marchioness , and production of her picture , had interested her so much , that she determined to obtain further information , if possible , respecting the subject of it . 
`` Here , '' said Agnes , as she offered it to Emily , `` learn a lesson for your vanity , at least ; look well at this picture , and see if you can discover any resemblance between what I was , and what I am . '' 
Emily impatiently received the miniature , which her eyes had scarcely glanced upon , before her trembling hands had nearly suffered it to fall -- it was the resemblance of the portrait of Signora Laurentini , which she had formerly seen in the castle of Udolpho -- the lady , who had disappeared in so mysterious a manner , and whom Montoni had been suspected of having caused to be murdered . 
In silent astonishment , Emily continued to gaze alternately upon the picture and the dying nun , endeavouring to trace a resemblance between them , which no longer existed . 
said Agnes , mistaking the nature of Emily 's emotion . 
`` I have seen this face before , '' said Emily , at length ; `` was it really your resemblance ? '' 
added she solemnly , and stretching forth her cold , damp hand to Emily , who shuddered at its touch -- `` Sister ! 
Emily listened to Agnes , in silent awe , while she still examined the miniature , and became confirmed in her opinion of its strong resemblance to the portrait at Udolpho . 
`` This face is familiar to me , '' said she , wishing to lead the nun to an explanation , yet fearing to discover too abruptly her knowledge of Udolpho . 
`` No , '' replied Emily , `` but I have seen one extremely like it . '' 
`` It was in the castle of Udolpho , '' continued Emily , looking stedfastly at her . 
`` The same , '' replied Emily . 
Emily was somewhat surprised at this abrupt assertion . 
St. Aubert , '' said she ; `` and the lady you name is an utter stranger to me . '' 
Emily asked what reasons there could be to believe otherwise . 
Emily , remembering the extreme emotion which St. Aubert had betrayed on the mention of the Marchioness , would now have suffered something more than surprise , had her confidence in his integrity been less ; as it was , she could not , for a moment , believe what the words of Laurentini insinuated ; yet she still felt strongly interested , concerning them , and begged , that she would explain them further . 
she sighed deeply , and , after the pause of a moment , asked Emily , by what means she had discovered her name ? 
`` By your portrait in the castle of Udolpho , to which this miniature bears a striking resemblance , '' replied Emily . 
At this moment , the terrible spectacle , which Emily had witnessed in a chamber of that castle , occurred to her , and she shuddered , while she looked upon the nun -- and recollected her late words -- that `` years of prayer and penitence could not wash out the foulness of murder . '' 
She was now compelled to attribute these to another cause , than that of delirium . 
With a degree of horror , that almost deprived her of sense , she now believed she looked upon a murderer ; all the recollected behaviour of Laurentini seemed to confirm the supposition ; yet Emily was still lost in a labyrinth of perplexities , and , not knowing how to ask the questions , which might lead to truth , she could only hint them in broken sentences . 
`` Your sudden departure from Udolpho '' -- said she . 
`` The reports that followed it , '' continued Emily -- `` The west chamber -- the mourning veil -- the object it conceals ! 
said she , endeavouring to raise herself , while her starting eyes seemed to follow some object round the room -- `` Come from the grave ! 
Laurentini fell into convulsions , as she uttered the last words ; and Emily , unable any longer to endure the horror of the scene , hurried from the room , and sent some nuns to the assistance of the abbess . 
The Lady Blanche , and the boarders , who were in the parlour , now assembled round Emily , and , alarmed by her manner and affrighted countenance , asked a hundred questions , which she avoided answering further , than by saying , that she believed sister Agnes was dying . 
They received this as a sufficient explanation of her terror , and had then leisure to offer restoratives , which , at length , somewhat revived Emily , whose mind was , however , so much shocked with terrible surmises , and perplexed with doubts by some words from the nun , that she was unable to converse , and would have left the convent immediately , had she not wished to know whether Laurentini would survive the late attack . 
After waiting some time , she was informed , that , the convulsions having ceased , Laurentini seemed to be reviving , and Emily and Blanche were departing , when the abbess appeared , who , drawing the former aside , said she had something of consequence to say to her , but , as it was late , she would not detain her then , and requested to see her on the following day . 
Emily promised to visit her , and , having taken leave , returned with the Lady Blanche towards the chateau , on the way to which the deep gloom of the woods made Blanche lament , that the evening was so far advanced ; for the surrounding stillness and obscurity rendered her sensible of fear , though there was a servant to protect her ; while Emily was too much engaged by the horrors of the scene she had just witnessed , to be affected by the solemnity of the shades , otherwise than as they served to promote her gloomy reverie , from which , however , she was at length recalled by the Lady Blanche , who pointed out , at some distance , in the dusky path they were winding , two persons slowly advancing . 
It was impossible to avoid them without striking into a still more secluded part of the wood , whither the strangers might easily follow ; but all apprehension vanished , when Emily distinguished the voice of Mons . 
Du Pont , and perceived , that his companion was the gentleman , whom she had seen at the monastery , and who was now conversing with so much earnestness as not immediately to perceive their approach . 
The conversation he held , during supper , was evidently an effort of politeness , and there were intervals in which , unable to struggle against the feelings , that depressed him , he relapsed into silence and abstraction , from which , however , the Count , sometimes , withdrew him in a manner so delicate and benevolent , that Emily , while she observed him , almost fancied she beheld her late father . 
The party separated , at an early hour , and then , in the solitude of her apartment , the scenes , which Emily had lately witnessed , returned to her fancy , with dreadful energy . 
That in the dying nun she should have discovered Signora Laurentini , who , instead of having been murdered by Montoni , was , as it now seemed , herself guilty of some dreadful crime , excited both horror and surprise in a high degree ; nor did the hints , which she had dropped , respecting the marriage of the Marchioness de Villeroi , and the enquiries she had made concerning Emily 's birth , occasion her a less degree of interest , though it was of a different nature . 
The history , which sister Frances had formerly related , and had said to be that of Agnes , it now appeared , was erroneous ; but for what purpose it had been fabricated , unless the more effectually to conceal the true story , Emily could not even guess . 
Above all , her interest was excited as to the relation , which the story of the late Marchioness de Villeroi bore to that of her father ; for , that some kind of relation existed between them , the grief of St. Aubert , upon hearing her named , his request to be buried near her , and her picture , which had been found among his papers , certainly proved . 
Sometimes it occurred to Emily , that he might have been the lover , to whom it was said the Marchioness was attached , when she was compelled to marry the Marquis de Villeroi ; but that he had afterwards cherished a passion for her , she could not suffer herself to believe , for a moment . 
The papers , which he had so solemnly enjoined her to destroy , she now fancied had related to this connection , and she wished more earnestly than before to know the reasons , that made him consider the injunction necessary , which , had her faith in his principles been less , would have led to believe , that there was a mystery in her birth dishonourable to her parents , which those manuscripts might have revealed . 
Reflections , similar to these , engaged her mind , during the greater part of the night , and when , at length , she fell into a slumber , it was only to behold a vision of the dying nun , and to awaken in horrors , like those she had witnessed . 
Bonnac received this intelligence , with concern ; but Emily observed , that he did not appear so much affected now , as on the preceding evening , immediately after quitting the apartment of the nun , whose death was probably less terrible to him , than the confession he had been then called upon to witness . 
However this might be , he was perhaps consoled , in some degree , by a knowledge of the legacy bequeathed him , since his family was large , and the extravagance of some part of it had lately been the means of involving him in great distress , and even in the horrors of a prison ; and it was the grief he had suffered from the wild career of a favourite son , with the pecuniary anxieties and misfortunes consequent upon it , that had given to his countenance the air of dejection , which had so much interested Emily . 
Bonnac by acquainting him , that Valancourt was at liberty , and had lately been in Languedoc ; after which his affection for Emily prompted him to make some enquiries , respecting the conduct of his rival , during his stay at Paris , of which M. Bonnac appeared to be well informed . 
The answers he received were such as convinced him , that Valancourt had been much misrepresented , and , painful as was the sacrifice , he formed the just design of relinquishing his pursuit of Emily to a lover , who , it now appeared , was not unworthy of the regard , with which she honoured him . 
In the solitude of his prison , Valancourt had leisure for reflection , and cause for repentance ; here , too , the image of Emily , which , amidst the dissipation of the city had been obscured , but never obliterated from his heart , revived with all the charms of innocence and beauty , to reproach him for having sacrificed his happiness and debased his talents by pursuits , which his nobler faculties would formerly have taught him to consider were as tasteless as they were degrading . 
Soon , however , he remembered , that he had thrown away the fortune , without which he could never hope to marry Emily ; and life , unless passed with her , now scarcely appeared supportable ; for her goodness , refinement , and simplicity of heart , rendered her beauty more enchanting , if possible , to his fancy , than it had ever yet appeared . 
Experience had taught him to understand the full value of the qualities , which he had before admired , but which the contrasted characters he had seen in the world made him now adore ; and these reflections , increasing the pangs of remorse and regret , occasioned the deep dejection , that had accompanied him even into the presence of Emily , of whom he considered himself no longer worthy . 
Being such as Emily could not name to the Chevalier , he had no opportunity of refuting them ; and , when he confessed himself to be unworthy of her esteem , he little suspected , that he was confirming to her the most dreadful calumnies . 
Bonnac explained the conduct of his generous , but imprudent young friend to Du Pont , who , with severe justice , determined not only to undeceive the Count on this subject , but to resign all hope of Emily . 
Bonnac , if it had been possible for him to forget the benevolent Valancourt , would have wished that Emily might accept the just Du Pont . 
But , as the least reparation he could now make Valancourt was to afford him an opportunity of explaining to Emily his former conduct , he immediately wrote , to request his forgiveness of the unintentional injury he had done him , and to invite him to Chateau-le-Blanc . 
Motives of delicacy with-held the Count from informing Emily of this letter , and of kindness from acquainting her with the discovery respecting Valancourt , till his arrival should save her from the possibility of anxiety , as to its event ; and this precaution spared her even severer inquietude , than the Count had foreseen , since he was ignorant of the symptoms of despair , which Valancourt 's late conduct had betrayed . 
Some circumstances of an extraordinary nature now withdrew Emily from her own sorrows , and excited emotions , which partook of both surprise and horror . 
A few days following that , on which Signora Laurentini died , her will was opened at the monastery , in the presence of the superiors and Mons . 
Bonnac , when it was found , that one third of her personal property was bequeathed to the nearest surviving relative of the late Marchioness de Villeroi , and that Emily was the person . 
With the secret of Emily 's family the abbess had long been acquainted , and it was in observance of the earnest request of St. Aubert , who was known to the friar , that attended him on his death bed , that his daughter had remained in ignorance of her relationship to the Marchioness . 
But some hints , which had fallen from Signora Laurentini , during her last interview with Emily , and a confession of a very extraordinary nature , given in her dying hours , had made the abbess think it necessary to converse with her young friend , on the topic she had not before ventured to introduce ; and it was for this purpose , that she had requested to see her on the morning that followed her interview with the nun . 
Emily 's indisposition had then prevented the intended conversation ; but now , after the will had been examined , she received a summons , which she immediately obeyed , and became informed of circumstances , that powerfully affected her . 
Whether this whisper ever reached the father of the Marchioness , and , if it did , whether the difficulty of obtaining proof deterred him from prosecuting the Marquis de Villeroi , is uncertain ; but her death was deeply lamented by some part of her family , and particularly by her brother , M. St. Aubert ; for that was the degree of relationship , which had existed between Emily 's father and the Marchioness ; and there is no doubt , that he suspected the manner of her death . 
Many letters passed between the Marquis and him , soon after the decease of this beloved sister , the subject of which was not known , but there is reason to believe , that they related to the cause of her death ; and these were the papers , together with some letters of the Marchioness , who had confided to her brother the occasion of her unhappiness , which St. Aubert had so solemnly enjoined his daughter to destroy : and anxiety for her peace had probably made him forbid her to enquire into the melancholy story , to which they alluded . 
From Emily , whose sensibility he feared to awaken , he had so carefully concealed her history and name , that she was ignorant , till now , that she ever had such a relative as the Marchioness de Villeroi ; and from this motive he had enjoined silence to his only surviving sister , Madame Cheron , who had scrupulously observed his request . 
It was over some of the last pathetic letters of the Marchioness , that St. Aubert was weeping , when he was observed by Emily , on the eve of her departure from La Vallée , and it was her picture , which he had so tenderly caressed . 
Her disastrous death may account for the emotion he had betrayed , on hearing her named by La Voisin , and for his request to be interred near the monument of the Villerois , where her remains were deposited , but not those of her husband , who was buried , where he died , in the north of France . 
The confessor , who attended St. Aubert in his last moments , recollected him to be the brother of the late Marchioness , when St. Aubert , from tenderness to Emily , had conjured him to conceal the circumstance , and to request that the abbess , to whose care he particularly recommended her , would do the same ; a request , which had been exactly observed . 
Laurentini , on her arrival in France , had carefully concealed her name and family , and , the better to disguise her real history , had , on entering the convent , caused the story to be circulated , which had imposed on sister Frances , and it is probable , that the abbess , who did not preside in the convent , at the time of her noviciation , was also entirely ignorant of the truth . 
As Emily St. Aubert was not only the nearest , but the sole relative , this legacy descended to her , and thus explained to her the whole mystery of her father 's conduct . 
The resemblance between Emily and her unfortunate aunt had frequently been observed by Laurentini ; and had occasioned the singular behaviour , which had formerly alarmed her ; but it was in the nun 's dying hour , when her conscience gave her perpetually the idea of the Marchioness , that she became more sensible , than ever , of this likeness , and , in her phrensy , deemed it no resemblance of the person she had injured , but the original herself . 
The bold assertion , that had followed , on the recovery of her senses , that Emily was the daughter of the Marchioness de Villeroi , arose from a suspicion that she was so ; for , knowing that her rival , when she married the Marquis , was attached to another lover , she had scarcely scrupled to believe , that her honour had been sacrificed , like her own , to an unresisted passion . 
Of a crime , however , to which Emily had suspected , from her phrensied confession of murder , that she had been instrumental in the castle of Udolpho , Laurentini was innocent ; and she had herself been deceived , concerning the spectacle , that formerly occasioned her so much terror , and had since compelled her , for a while , to attribute the horrors of the nun to a consciousness of a murder , committed in that castle . 
It may be remembered , that , in a chamber of Udolpho , hung a black veil , whose singular situation had excited Emily 's curiosity , and which afterwards disclosed an object , that had over-whelmed her with horror ; for , on lifting it , there appeared , instead of the picture she had expected , within a recess of the wall , a human figure of ghastly paleness , stretched at its length , and dressed in the habiliments of the grave . 
Emily , it may be recollected , had , after the first glance , let the veil drop , and her terror had prevented her from ever after provoking a renewal of such suffering , as she had then experienced . 
Had she dared to look again , her delusion and her fears would have vanished together , and she would have perceived , that the figure before her was not human , but formed of wax . 
This image was so horribly natural , that it is not surprising Emily should have mistaken it for the object it resembled , nor , since she had heard such an extraordinary account , concerning the disappearing of the late lady of the castle , and had such experience of the character of Montoni , that she should have believed this to be the murdered body of the lady Laurentini , and that he had been the contriver of her death . 
Emily , in discovering the Marchioness de Villeroi to have been the sister of Mons . 
St. Aubert , was variously affected ; but , amidst the sorrow , which she suffered for her untimely death , she was released from an anxious and painful conjecture , occasioned by the rash assertion of Signora Laurentini , concerning her birth and the honour of her parents . 
Her faith in St. Aubert 's principles would scarcely allow her to suspect that he had acted dishonourably ; and she felt such reluctance to believe herself the daughter of any other , than her , whom she had always considered and loved as a mother , that she would hardly admit such a circumstance to be possible ; yet the likeness , which it had frequently been affirmed she bore to the late Marchioness , the former behaviour of Dorothée the old housekeeper , the assertion of Laurentini , and the mysterious attachment , which St. Aubert had discovered , awakened doubts , as to his connection with the Marchioness , which her reason could neither vanquish , or confirm . 
From these , however , she was now relieved , and all the circumstances of her father 's conduct were fully explained ; but her heart was oppressed by the melancholy catastrophe of her amiable relative , and by the awful lesson , which the history of the nun exhibited , the indulgence of whose passions had been the means of leading her gradually to the commission of a crime , from the prophecy of which in her early years she would have recoiled in horror , and exclaimed -- that it could not be ! 
After the late discoveries , Emily was distinguished at the chateau by the Count and his family , as a relative of the house of Villeroi , and received , if possible , more friendly attention , than had yet been shewn her . 
Count De Villefort 's surprise at the delay of an answer to his letter , which had been directed to Valancourt , at Estuviere , was mingled with satisfaction for the prudence , which had saved Emily from a share of the anxiety he now suffered , though , when he saw her still drooping under the effect of his former error , all his resolution was necessary to restrain him from relating the truth , that would afford her a momentary relief . 
In the gaiety , which surrounded her , Emily vainly tried to participate , her spirits being depressed by the late discoveries , and by the anxiety concerning the fate of Valancourt , that had been occasioned by the description of his manner , when he had delivered the ring . 
She seemed to perceive in it the gloomy wildness of despair ; and , when she considered to what that despair might have urged him , her heart sunk with terror and grief . 
The state of suspense , as to his safety , to which she believed herself condemned , till she should return to La Vallée , appeared insupportable , and , in such moments , she could not even struggle to assume the composure , that had left her mind , but would often abruptly quit the company she was with , and endeavour to sooth her spirits in the deep solitudes of the woods , that overbrowed the shore . 
Here , the faint roar of foaming waves , that beat below , and the sullen murmur of the wind among the branches around , were circumstances in unison with the temper of her mind ; and she would sit on a cliff , or on the broken steps of her favourite watch-tower , observing the changing colours of the evening clouds , and the gloom of twilight draw over the sea , till the white tops of billows , riding towards the shore , could scarcely be discerned amidst the darkened waters . 
The lines , engraved by Valancourt on this tower , she frequently repeated with melancholy enthusiasm , and then would endeavour to check the recollections and the grief they occasioned , and to turn her thoughts to indifferent subjects . 
One evening , having wandered with her lute to this her favourite spot , she entered the ruined tower , and ascended a winding stair case , that led to a small chamber , which was less decayed than the rest of the building , and whence she had often gazed , with admiration , on the wide prospect of sea and land , that extended below . 
The sun was now setting on that tract of the Pyrenées , which divides Languedoc from Rousillon , and , placing herself opposite to a small grated window , which , like the wood-tops beneath , and the waves lower still , gleamed with the red glow of the west , she touched the chords of her lute in solemn symphony , and then accompanied it with her voice , in one of the simple and affecting airs ; to which , in happier days , Valancourt had often listened in rapture , and which she now adapted to the following lines . 
The soft tranquillity of the scene below , where the evening breeze scarcely curled the water , or swelled the passing sail , that caught the last gleam of the sun , and where , now and then , a dipping oar was all that disturbed the trembling radiance , conspired with the tender melody of her lute to lull her mind into a state of gentle sadness , and she sung the mournful songs of past times , till the remembrances they awakened were too powerful for her heart , her tears fell upon the lute , over which she drooped , and her voice trembled , and was unable to proceed . 
Though the sun had now sunk behind the mountains , and even his reflected light was fading from their highest points , Emily did not leave the watch-tower , but continued to indulge her melancholy reverie , till a footstep , at a little distance , startled her , and , on looking through the grate , she observed a person walking below , whom , however , soon perceiving to be Mons . 
Bonnac , she returned to the quiet thoughtfulness his step had interrupted . 
After some time , she again struck her lute , and sung her favourite air ; but again a step disturbed her , and , as she paused to listen , she heard it ascending the stair-case of the tower . 
The gloom of the hour , perhaps , made her sensible to some degree of fear , which she might not otherwise have felt ; for , only a few minutes before , she had seen Mons . 
The steps were quick and bounding , and , in the next moment , the door of the chamber opened , and a person entered , whose features were veiled in the obscurity of twilight ; but his voice could not be concealed , for it was the voice of Valancourt ! 
At the sound , never heard by Emily , without emotion , she started , in terror , astonishment and doubtful pleasure , and had scarcely beheld him at her feet , when she sunk into a seat , overcome by the various emotions , that contended at her heart , and almost insensible to that voice , whose earnest and trembling calls seemed as if endeavouring to save her . 
Valancourt , as he hung over Emily , deplored his own rash impatience , in having thus surprised her : for when he had arrived at the chateau , too anxious to await the return of the Count , who , he understood , was in the grounds , he went himself to seek him , when , as he passed the tower , he was struck by the sound of Emily 's voice , and immediately ascended . 
It was a considerable time before she revived , but , when her recollection returned , she repulsed his attentions , with an air of reserve , and enquired , with as much displeasure as it was possible she could feel in these first moments of his appearance , the occasion of his visit . 
`` Ah Emily ! '' 
`` Most true , sir , '' replied Emily , endeavouring to command her trembling voice ; `` and if you had valued my esteem , you would not have given me this new occasion for uneasiness . '' 
Valancourt 's countenance changed suddenly from the anxieties of doubt to an expression of surprise and dismay : he was silent a moment , and then said , `` I had been taught to hope for a very different reception ! 
Is it , then , true , Emily , that I have lost your regard , forever ? 
The voice , in which he spoke this , alarmed Emily as much as his words surprised her , and , with trembling impatience , she begged that he would explain them . 
that the actions of which you once believed me guilty -LRB- and , O Emily ! 
The silence of Emily confirmed this supposition ; for the deep twilight would not allow Valancourt to distinguish the astonishment and doubting joy , that fixed her features . 
For a moment , she continued unable to speak ; then a profound sigh seemed to give some relief to her spirits , and she said , `` Valancourt ! 
-- I am dear to you then -- still dear to you , my Emily ! '' 
`` Is it necessary that I should tell you to '' she replied , `` is it necessary , that I should say -- these are the first moments of joy I have known , since your departure , and that they repay me for all those of pain I have suffered in the interval ? '' 
Valancourt sighed deeply , and was unable to reply ; but , as he pressed her hand to his lips , the tears , that fell over it , spoke a language , which could not be mistaken , and to which words were inadequate . 
Emily , somewhat tranquillized , proposed returning to the chateau , and then , for the first time , recollected that the Count had invited Valancourt thither to explain his conduct , and that no explanation had yet been given . 
But , while she acknowledged this , her heart would not allow her to dwell , for a moment , on the possibility of his unworthiness ; his look , his voice , his manner , all spoke the noble sincerity , which had formerly distinguished him ; and she again permitted herself to indulge the emotions of a joy , more surprising and powerful , than she had ever before experienced . 
Neither Emily , or Valancourt , were conscious how they reached the chateau , whither they might have been transferred by the spell of a fairy , for any thing they could remember ; and it was not , till they had reached the great hall , that either of them recollected there were other persons in the world besides themselves , The Count then came forth with surprise , and with the joyfulness of pure benevolence , to welcome Valancourt , and to entreat his forgivenness of the injustice he had done him ; soon after which , Mons . 
When the first congratulations were over , and the general joy became somewhat more tranquil , the Count withdrew with Valancourt to the library , where a long conversation passed between them , in which the latter so clearly justified himself of the criminal parts of the conduct , imputed to him , and so candidly confessed and so feelingly lamented the follies , which he had committed , that the Count was confirmed in the belief of all he had hoped ; and , while he perceived so many noble virtues in Valancourt , and that experience had taught him to detest the follies , which before he had only not admired , he did not scruple to believe , that he would pass through life with the dignity of a wife and good man , or to entrust to his care the future happiness of Emily St. Aubert , for whom he felt the solicitude of a parent . 
Of this he soon informed her , in a short conversation , when Valancourt had left him . 
While Emily listened to a relation of the services , that Valancourt had rendered Mons . 
Bonnac , her eyes overflowed with tears of pleasure , and the further conversation of Count De Villefort perfectly dissipated every doubt , as to the past and future conduct of him , to whom she now restored , without fear , the esteem and affection , with which she had formerly received him . 
When they returned to the supper-room , the Countess and Lady Blanche met Valancourt with sincere congratulations ; and Blanche , indeed , was so much rejoiced to see Emily returned to happiness , as to forget , for a while , that Mons . 
St. Foix was not yet arrived at the chateau , though he had been expected for some hours ; but her generous sympathy was , soon after , rewarded by his appearance . 
The smile of Blanche was frank and gay , that of Emily tender and pensive ; Valancourt 's was rapturous , tender and gay alternately ; Mons . 
Dupont did not , by his presence , throw a shade of regret over the company ; for , when he had discovered , that Valancourt was not unworthy of the esteem of Emily , he determined seriously to endeavour at the conquest of his own hopeless affection , and had immediately withdrawn from Chateau-le-Blanc -- a conduct , which Emily now understood , and rewarded with her admiration and pity . 
The marriages of the Lady Blanche and Emily St. Aubert were celebrated , on the same day , and with the ancient baronial magnificence , at Chateau-le-Blanc . 
The feasts were held in the great hall of the castle , which , on this occasion , was hung with superb new tapestry , representing the exploits of Charlemagne and his twelve peers ; here , were seen the Saracens , with their horrible visors , advancing to battle ; and there , were displayed the wild solemnities of incantation , and the necromantic feats , exhibited by the magician Farl before the Emperor . 
After gracing the festivities of Chateau-le-Blanc , for some days , Valancourt and Emily took leave of their kind friends , and returned to La Vallée , where the faithful Theresa received them with unfeigned joy , and the pleasant shades welcomed them with a thousand tender and affecting remembrances ; and , while they wandered together over the scenes , so long inhabited by the late Mons . 
and Madame St. Aubert , and Emily pointed out , with pensive affection , their favourite haunts , her present happiness was heightened , by considering , that it would have been worthy of their approbation , could they have witnessed it . 
Valancourt led her to the plane-tree on the terrace , where he had first ventured to declare his love , and where now the remembrance of the anxiety he had then suffered , and the retrospect of all the dangers and misfortunes they had each encountered , since last they sat together beneath its broad branches , exalted the sense of their present felicity , which , on this spot , sacred to the memory of St. Aubert , they solemnly vowed to deserve , as far as possible , by endeavouring to imitate his benevolence , -- by remembering , that superior attainments of every sort bring with them duties of superior exertion , -- and by affording to their fellow-beings , together with that portion of ordinary comforts , which prosperity always owes to misfortune , the example of lives passed in happy thankfulness to God , and , therefore , in careful tenderness to his creatures . 
Soon after their return to La Vallée , the brother of Valancourt came to congratulate him on his marriage , and to pay his respects to Emily , with whom he was so much pleased , as well as with the prospect of rational happiness , which these nuptials offered to Valancourt , that he immediately resigned to him a part of the rich domain , the whole of which , as he had no family , would of course descend to his brother , on his decease . 
The estates , at Tholouse , were disposed of , and Emily purchased of Mons . 
Quesnel the ancient domain of her late father , where , having given Annette a marriage-portion , she settled her as the housekeeper , and Ludovico as the steward ; but , since both Valancourt and herself preferred the pleasant and long-loved shades of La Vallée to the magnificence of Epourville , they continued to reside there , passing , however , a few months in the year at the birth-place of St. Aubert , in tender respect to his memory . 
The legacy , which had been bequeathed to Emily by Signora Laurentini , she begged Valancourt would allow her to resign to Mons . 
Bonnac ; and Valancourt , when she made the request , felt all the value of the compliment it conveyed . 
how joyful it is to tell of happiness , such as that of Vallancourt and Emily ; to relate , that , after suffering under the oppression of the vicious and the disdain of the weak , they were , at length , restored to each other -- to the beloved landscapes of their native country , -- to the securest felicity of this life , that of aspiring to moral and labouring for intellectual improvement -- to the pleasures of enlightened society , and to the exercise of the benevolence , which had always animated their hearts ; while the bowers of La Vallée became , once more , the retreat of goodness , wisdom and domestic blessedness ! 
