`` But you forget , mama , '' said Elizabeth , `` that we shall meet him at the assemblies , and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him . '' 
Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged , by the scarcity of gentlemen , to sit down for two dances ; and during part of that time , Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for her to overhear a conversation between him and Mr. Bingley , who came from the dance for a few minutes , to press his friend to join it . 
`` You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room , '' said Mr. Darcy , looking at the eldest Miss Bennet . 
and turning round , he looked for a moment at Elizabeth , till catching her eye , he withdrew his own and coldly said , `` She is tolerable ; but not handsome enough to tempt me ; and I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men . 
Mr. Darcy walked off ; and Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards him . 
She told the story however with great spirit among her friends ; for she had a lively , playful disposition , which delighted in any thing ridiculous . 
Elizabeth felt Jane 's pleasure . 
I quite detest the man , '' When Jane and Elizabeth were alone , the former , who had been cautious in her praise of Mr. Bingley before , expressed to her sister how very much she admired him . 
`` He is also handsome , '' replied Elizabeth , `` which a young man ought likewise to be , if he possibly can . 
Elizabeth listened in silence , but was not convinced ; their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general ; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister , and with a judgment too unassailed by any attention to herself , she was very little disposed to approve them . 
Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier girls in his life ; every body had been most kind and attentive to him , there had been no formality , no stiffness , he had soon felt acquainted with all the room ; and as to Miss Bennet , he could not conceive an angel more beautiful . 
Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty , but she smiled too much . 
Miss Bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl , and their brother felt authorised by such commendation to think of her as he chose . 
The eldest of them a sensible , intelligent young woman , about twenty-seven , was Elizabeth 's intimate friend . 
the eldest Miss Bennet beyond a doubt , there can not be two opinions on that point . '' 
`` That is very true , '' replied Elizabeth , `` and I could easily forgive his pride , if he had not mortified mine . '' 
`` Pride , '' observed Mary , who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections , `` is a very common failing I believe . 
Miss Bennet 's pleasing manners grew on the good will of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley ; and though the mother was found to be intolerable and the younger sisters not worth speaking to , a wish of being better acquainted with them , was expressed towards the two eldest . 
By Jane this attention was received with the greatest pleasure ; but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of every body , hardly excepting even her sister , and could not like them ; though their kindness to Jane , such as it was , had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of their brother 's admiration . 
`` Your plan is a good one , '' replied Elizabeth , `` where nothing is in question but the desire of being well married ; and if I were determined to get a rich husband , or any husband , I dare say I should adopt it . 
Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley 's attentions to her sister , Elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend . 
Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty ; he had looked at her without admiration at the ball ; and when they next met , he looked at her only to criticise . 
But no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she had hardly a good feature in her face , than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes . 
Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in her form , he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and pleasing ; and in spite of his asserting that her manners were not those of the fashionable world , he was caught by their easy playfulness . 
Of this she was perfectly unaware ; -- to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable no where , and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with . 
He began to wish to know more of her , and as a step towards conversing with her himself , attended to her conversation with others . 
His doing so drew her notice . 
`` What does Mr. Darcy mean , '' said she to Charlotte , `` by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster ? '' 
On his approaching them soon afterwards , though without seeming to have any intention of speaking , Miss Lucas defied her friend to mention such a subject to him , which immediately provoking Elizabeth to do it , she turned to him and said , `` Did not you think , Mr. Darcy , that I expressed myself uncommonly well just now , when I was teazing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton ? '' 
Elizabeth , easy and unaffected , had been listened to with much more pleasure , though not playing half so well ; and Mary , at the end of a long concerto , was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by Scotch and Irish airs , at the request of her younger sisters , who with some of the Lucases and two or three officers joined eagerly in dancing at one end of the room . 
He paused in hopes of an answer ; but his companion was not disposed to make any ; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them , he was struck with the notion of doing a very gallant thing , and called out to her , `` My dear Miss Eliza , why are not you dancing ? 
And taking her hand , he would have given it to Mr. Darcy , who , though extremely surprised , was not unwilling to receive it , when she instantly drew back , and said with some discomposure to Sir William , `` Indeed , Sir , I have not the least intention of dancing . 
Mr. Darcy with grave propriety requested to be allowed the honour of her hand ; but in vain . 
Elizabeth was determined ; nor did Sir William at all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion . 
`` Mr. Darcy is all politeness , '' said Elizabeth , smiling . 
Elizabeth looked archly , and turned away . 
Her resistance had not injured her with the gentleman , and he was thinking of her with some complacency , when thus accosted by Miss Bingley , `` I can guess the subject of your reverie . '' 
Mr. Darcy replied with great intrepidity , `` Miss Elizabeth Bennet . '' 
`` Miss Elizabeth Bennet ! '' 
How long has she been such a favourite ? 
Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for Miss Bennet ; it came from Netherfield , and the servant waited for an answer . 
`` That would be a good scheme , '' said Elizabeth , `` if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home . '' 
`` But if you have got them to day ; '' said Elizabeth , `` my mother 's purdose will be answered . '' 
She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged , Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback , and her mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad day . 
Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield brought the following note for Elizabeth : `` My dearest Lizzy . 
`` Yours , & c. '' `` Well , my dear , '' said Mr. Bennet , when Elizabeth had read the note aloud , `` if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness , if she should die , it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of Mr. Bingley , and under your orders . '' 
Elizabeth , feeling really anxious , was determined to go to her , though the carriage was not to be had ; and as she was no horse-woman , walking was her only alternative . 
She declared her resolution . 
`` How can you be so silly , '' cried her mother , `` as to think of such a thing , in all this dirt ! 
`` Is this a hint to me , Lizzy , '' said her father , `` to send for the horses ? '' 
-- Elizabeth accepted their company , and the three young ladies set off together . 
In Meryton they parted ; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the officers ' wives , and Elizabeth continued her walk alone , crossing field after field at a quick pace , jumping over stiles and springing over puddles with impatient activity , and finding herself at last within view of the house , with weary ancles , dirty stockings , and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise . 
She was shewn into the breakfast-parlour , where all but Jane were assembled , and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise . 
-- That she should have walked three miles so early in the day , in such dirty weather , and by herself , was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley ; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it . 
She was received , however , very politely by them ; and in their brother 's manners there was something better than politeness ; there was good humour and kindness . 
The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion , and doubt as to the occasion 's justifying her coming so far alone . 
Her enquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered . 
Miss Bennet had slept ill , and though up , was very feverish and not well enough to leave her room . 
Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her immediately ; and Jane , who had only been withheld by the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience , from expressing in her note how much she longed for such a visit , was delighted at her entrance . 
She was not equal , however , to much conversation , and when Miss Bingley left them together , could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness she was treated with . 
Elizabeth silently attended her . 
When breakfast was over , they were joined by the sisters ; and Elizabeth began to like them herself , when she saw how much affection and solicitude they shewed for Jane . 
Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment , nor were the other ladies often absent ; the gentlemen being out , they had in fact nothing to do elsewhere . 
When the clock struck three , Elizabeth felt that she must go ; and very unwillingly said so . 
Elizabeth most thankfully consented , and a servant was dispatched to Longbourn to acquaint the family with her stay , and bring back a supply of clothes . 
At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress , and at half past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner . 
To the civil enquiries which then poured in , and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley 's , she could not make a very favourable answer . 
The sisters , on hearing this , repeated three or four times how much they were grieved , how shocking it was to have a bad cold , and how excessively they disliked being ill themselves ; and then thought no more of the matter : and their indifference towards Jane when not immediately before them , restored Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her original dislike . 
Their brother , indeed , was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency . 
Miss Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy , her sister scarcely less so ; and as for Mr. Hurst , by whom Elizabeth sat , he was an indolent man , who lived only to eat , drink , and play at cards , who when he found her prefer a plain dish to a ragout , had nothing to say to her . 
When dinner was over , she returned directly to Jane , and Miss Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room . 
I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably well , when she came into the room this morning . 
Her dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice . '' 
She was still very poorly , and Elizabeth would not quit her at all , till late in the evening , when she had the comfort of seeing her asleep , and when it appeared to her rather right than pleasant that she should go down stairs herself . 
On entering the drawing-room she found the whole party at loo , and was immediately invited to join them ; but suspecting them to be playing high she declined it , and making her sister the excuse , said she would amuse herself for the short time she could stay below with a book . 
Mr. Hurst looked at her with astonishment . 
`` I deserve neither such praise nor such censure , '' cried Elizabeth ; `` I am not a great reader , and I have pleasure in many things . '' 
Elizabeth thanked him from her heart , and then walked towards a table where a few books were lying . 
He immediately offered to fetch her others ; all that his library afforded . 
Elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room . 
Elizabeth was so much caught by what passed , as to leave her very little attention for her book ; and soon laying it wholly aside , she drew near the card-table , and stationed herself between Mr. Bingley and his eldest sister , to observe the game . 
She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet 's height , or rather taller . '' 
`` Then , '' observed Elizabeth , `` you must comprehend a great deal in your idea of an accomplished woman . '' 
As all conversation was thereby at an end , Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room . 
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse , and that she could not leave her . 
This , she would not hear of ; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their brother 's proposal ; and it was settled that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning , if Miss Bennet were not decidedly better . 
Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister 's room , and in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the enquiries which she very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid , and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his sisters . 
In spite of this amendment , however , she requested to have a note sent to Longbourn , desiring her mother to visit Jane , and form her own judgment of her situation . 
Bingley met them with hopes that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected . 
`` Indeed I have , Sir , '' was her answer . 
`` You may depend upon it , Madam , '' said Miss Bingley , with cold civility , `` that Miss Bennet shall receive every possible attention while she remains with us . '' 
`` I am sure , '' she added , `` if it was not for such good friends I do not know what would become of her , for she is very ill indeed , and suffers a vast deal , though with the greatest patience in the world , which is always the way with her , for she has , without exception , the sweetest temper I ever met with . 
I often tell my other girls they are nothing to her . 
`` That is exactly what I should have supposed of you , '' said Elizabeth . 
cried he , turning towards her . 
`` Lizzy , '' cried her mother , `` remember where you are , and do not run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home . '' 
`` Indeed , Mama , you are mistaken , '' said Elizabeth , blushing for her mother . 
Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his countenance . 
Elizabeth , for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother 's thoughts , now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since her coming away . 
`` And so ended his affection , '' said Elizabeth impatiently . 
Darcy only smiled ; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again . 
She longed to speak , but could think of nothing to say ; and after a short silence Mrs. Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to Jane , with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy . 
Mrs. Bennet and her daughter then departed , and Elizabeth returned instantly to Jane , leaving her own and her relations ' behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy ; the latter of whom , however , could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of her , in spite of all Miss Bingley 's witticisms on fine eyes . 
Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid , who continued , though slowly , to mend ; and in the evening Elizabeth joined their party in the drawing-room . 
Elizabeth took up some needle-work , and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion . 
`` Your humility , Mr. Bingley , '' said Elizabeth , `` must disarm reproof . '' 
`` You have only proved by this , '' cried Elizabeth , `` that Mr. Bingley did not do justice to his own disposition . 
Allowing the case , however , to stand according to your representation , you must remember , Miss Bennet , that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house , and the delay of his plan , has merely desired it , asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety . '' 
`` By all means , '' cried Bingley ; `` let us hear all the particulars , not forgetting their comparative height and size ; for that will have more weight in the argument , Miss Bennet , than you may be aware of . 
Mr. Darcy smiled ; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was rather offended ; and therefore checked her laugh . 
If you and Miss Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room , I shall be very thankful ; and then you may say whatever you like of me . '' 
`` What you ask , '' said Elizabeth , `` is no sacrifice on my side ; and Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter . '' 
Mr. Darcy took her advice , and did finish his letter . 
When that business was over , he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth for the indulgence of some music . 
Miss Bingley moved with alacrity to the piano-forte , and after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the way , which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived , she seated herself . 
Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister , and while they were thus employed Elizabeth could not help observing as she turned over some music books that lay on the instrument , how frequently Mr. Darcy 's eyes were fixed on her . 
She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man ; and yet that he should look at her because he disliked her , was still more strange . 
She could only imagine however at last , that she drew his notice because there was a something about her more wrong and reprehensible , according to his ideas of right , than in any other person present . 
The supposition did not pain her . 
She liked him too little to care for his approbation . 
After playing some Italian songs , Miss Bingley varied the charm by a lively Scotch air ; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy , drawing near Elizabeth , said to her -- `` Do not you feel a great inclination , Miss Bennet , to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel ? '' 
She smiled , but made no answer . 
He repeated the question , with some surprise at her silence . 
said she , `` I heard you before ; but I could not immediately determine what to say in reply . 
Elizabeth , having rather expected to affront him , was amazed at his gallantry ; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody ; and Darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her . 
Miss Bingley saw , or suspected enough to be jealous ; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend Jane , received some assistance from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth . 
She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest , by talking of their supposed marriage , and planning his happiness in such an alliance . 
`` I hope , '' said she , as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day , `` you will give your mother-in-law a few hints , when this desirable event takes place , as to the advantage of holding her tongue ; and if you can compass it , do cure the younger girls of running after the officers . 
As for your Elizabeth 's picture , you must not attempt to have it taken , for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes ? '' 
At that moment they were met from another walk , by Mrs. Hurst and Elizabeth herself . 
Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy , she left Elizabeth to walk by herself . 
But Elizabeth who had not the least inclination to remain with them , laughingly answered , `` No , no ; stay where you are . 
She then ran gaily off , rejoicing as she rambled about , in the hope of being at home again in a day or two . 
When the ladies removed after dinner , Elizabeth ran up to her sister , and seeing her well guarded from cold , attended her into the drawing-room ; where she was welcomed by her two friends with many professions of pleasure ; and Elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared . 
He addressed himself directly to Miss Bennet , with a polite congratulation ; Mr. Hurst also made her a slight bow , and said he was `` very glad ; '' but diffuseness and warmth remained for Bingley 's salutation . 
The first half hour was spent in piling up the fire , lest she should suffer from the change of room ; and she removed at his desire to the other side of the fire-place , that she might be farther from the door . 
He then sat down by her , and talked scarcely to any one else . 
Elizabeth , at work in the opposite corner , saw it all with great delight . 
Darcy took up a book ; Miss Bingley did the same ; and Mrs. Hurst , principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings , joined now and then in her brother 's conversation with Miss Bennet . 
She then yawned again , threw aside her book , and cast her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement ; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet , she turned suddenly towards him and said , `` By the bye , Charles , are you really serious in meditating a dance at Netherfield ? 
`` If you mean Darcy , '' cried her brother , `` he may go to bed , if he chuses , before it begins -- but as for the ball , it is quite a settled thing ; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough I shall send round my cards . '' 
`` I should like balls infinitely better , '' she replied , `` if they were carried on in a different manner ; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting . 
In the desperation of her feelings she resolved on one effort more ; and , turning to Elizabeth , said , `` Miss Eliza Bennet , let me persuade you to follow my example , and take a turn about the room . 
Elizabeth was surprised , but agreed to it immediately . 
He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be , and unconsciously closed his book . 
she was dying to know what could be his meaning '' -- and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him ? 
`` Not at all , '' was her answer ; `` but depend upon it , he means to be severe on us , and our surest way of disappointing him , will be to ask nothing about it . '' 
`` Nothing so easy , if you have but the inclination , '' said Elizabeth . 
cried Elizabeth . 
`` Certainly , '' replied Elizabeth -- `` there are such people , but I hope I am not one of them . 
Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile . 
-- cried Elizabeth . 
He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention . 
In consequence of an agreement between the sisters , Elizabeth wrote the next morning to her mother , to beg that the carriage might be sent for them in the course of the day . 
Her answer , therefore , was not propitious , at least not to Elizabeth 's wishes , for she was impatient to get home . 
-- Against staying longer , however , Elizabeth was positively resolved -- nor did she much expect it would be asked ; and fearful , on the contrary , as being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long , she urged Jane to borrow Mr. Bingley 's carriage immediately , and at length it was settled that their original design of leaving Netherfield that morning should be mentioned and the request made . 
The master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so soon , and repeatedly tried to persuade Miss Bennet that it would not be safe for her -- that she was not enough recovered ; but Jane was firm where she felt herself to be right . 
To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence -- Elizabeth had been at Netherfield long enough . 
She attracted him more than he liked -- and Miss Bingley was uncivil to her , and more teazing than usual to himself . 
Bingley 's civility to Elizabeth increased at last very rapidly , as well as her affection for Jane ; and when they parted , after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield , and embracing her most tenderly , she even shook hands with the former . 
-- Elizabeth took leave of the whole party in the liveliest spirits . 
The evening conversation , when they were all assembled , has lost much of its animation , and almost all its sense , by the absence of Jane and Elizabeth . 
Jane and Elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail . 
Elizabeth was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for Lady Catherine , and his kind intention of christening , marrying , and burying his parishioners whenever it were required . 
His cousin was as absurd as he had hoped , and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment , maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance , and except in an occasional glance at Elizabeth , requiring no partner in his pleasure . 
-- Miss Bennet 's lovely face confirmed his views , and established all his strictest notions of what was due to seniority ; and for the first evening she was his settled choice . 
Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth -- and it was soon done -- done while Mrs. Bennet was stirring the fire . 
Elizabeth , equally next to Jane in birth and beauty , succeeded her of course . 
In his library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity ; and though prepared , as he told Elizabeth , to meet with folly and conceit in every other room in the house , he was used to be free from them there ; his civility , therefore , was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his daughters in their walk ; and Mr. Collins , being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader , was extremely well pleased to close his large book , and go . 
Bingley was the principal spokesman , and Miss Bennet the principal object . 
He was then , he said , on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her . 
Mr. Darcy corroborated it with a bow , and was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on Elizabeth , when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger , and Elizabeth happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other , was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting . 
As they walked home , Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen ; but though Jane would have defended either or both , had they appeared to be wrong , she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister . 
The gentlemen did approach ; and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room , Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before , nor thinking of him since , with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration . 
Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was turned , and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated himself ; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into conversation , though it was only on its being a wet night , and on the probability of a rainy season , made her feel that the commonest , dullest , most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker . 
Mr. Wickham did not play at whist , and with ready delight was he received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia . 
Allowing for the common demands of the game , Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to Elizabeth , and she was very willing to hear him , though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told , the history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy . 
She dared not even mention that gentleman . 
Her curiosity however was unexpectedly relieved . 
He inquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton ; and , after receiving her answer , asked in an hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there . 
`` About a month , '' said Elizabeth ; and then , unwilling to let the subject drop , added , `` he is a man of very large property in Derbyshire , I understand . '' 
Elizabeth could not but look surprised . 
`` You may well be surprised , Miss Bennet , at such an assertion , after seeing , as you probably might , the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday . 
`` As much as I ever wish to be , '' cried Elizabeth warmly , -- `` I have spent four days in the same house with him , and I think him very disagreeable . '' 
His father , Miss Bennet , the late Mr. Darcy , was one of the best men that ever breathed , and the truest friend I ever had ; and I can never be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections . 
Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase , and listened with all her heart ; but the delicacy of it prevented farther inquiry . 
cried Elizabeth ; `` but how could that be ? 
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings , and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them . 
`` But what , '' said she , after a pause , `` can have been his motive ? 
After a few minutes reflection , however , she continued , `` I do remember his boasting one day , at Netherfield , of the implacability of his resentments , of his having an unforgiving temper . 
Elizabeth was again deep in thought , and after a time exclaimed , `` To treat in such a manner , the godson , the friend , the favourite of his father ! '' 
-- She could have added , `` A young man too , like you , whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable '' -- but she contended herself with `` And one , too , who had probably been his own companion from childhood , connected together , as I think you said , in the closest manner ! '' 
cried Elizabeth . 
After many pauses and many trials of other subjects , Elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the first , and saying , `` I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley ! 
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up , the players gathered round the other table , and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin Elizabeth and Mrs. Philips . 
Mr. Wickham 's attention was caught ; and after observing Mr. Collins for a few moments , he asked Elizabeth in a low voice whether her relation were very intimately acquainted with the family of de Bourgh . 
`` Lady Catherine de Bourgh , '' she replied , `` has very lately given him a living . 
This information made Elizabeth smile , as she thought of poor Miss Bingley . 
Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of it , and they continued talking together with mutual satisfaction till supper put an end to cards ; and gave the rest of the ladies their share of Mr. Wickham 's attentions . 
Elizabeth went away with her head full of him . 
She could think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham , and of what he had told her , all the way home ; but there was not time for her even to mention his name as they went , for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent . 
Elizabeth related to Jane the next day , what had passed between Mr. Wickham and herself . 
To the rest of the family they paid little attention ; avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much as possible , saying not much to Elizabeth , and nothing at all to the others . 
Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the society of her two friends , and the attentions of their brother ; and Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr. Wickham , and of seeing a confirmation of every thing in Mr. Darcy 's looks and behaviour . 
The happiness anticipated by Catherine and Lydia , depended less on any single event , or any particular person , for though they each , like Elizabeth , meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham , he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them , and a ball was at any rate , a ball . 
Elizabeth 's spirits were so high on the occasion , that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins , she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley 's invitation , and if he did , whether he would think it proper to join in the evening 's amusement ; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head , and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop , or Lady Catherine de Bourgh , by venturing to dance . 
`` I am by no means of opinion , I assure you , '' said he , `` that a ball of this kind , given by a young man of character , to respectable people , can have any evil tendency ; and I am so far from objecting to dancing myself that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening , and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours , Miss Elizabeth , for the two first dances especially , -- a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right cause , and not to any disrespect for her . '' 
Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in . 
She had fully proposed being engaged by Wickham for those very dances : -- and to have Mr. Collins instead ! 
-- her liveliness had been never worse timed . 
Mr. Wickham 's happiness and her own was per force delayed a little longer , and Mr. Collins 's proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could . 
She was not the better pleased with his gallantry , from the idea it suggested of something more -- It now first struck her , that she was selected from among her sisters as worthy of being the mistress of Hunsford Parsonage , and of assisting to form a quadrille table at Rosings , in the absence of more eligible visitors . 
The idea soon reached to conviction , as she observed his increasing civilities towards herself , and heard his frequent attempt at a compliment on her wit and vivacity ; and though more astonished than gratified herself , by this effect of her charms , it was not long before her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage was exceedingly agreeable to her . 
Elizabeth however did not chuse to take the hint , being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply . 
Even Elizabeth might have found some trial of her patience in weather , which totally suspended the improvement of her acquaintance with Mr. Wickham ; and nothing less than a dance on Tuesday , could have made such a Friday , Saturday , Sunday and Monday , endurable to Kitty and Lydia . 
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield and looked in vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled , a doubt of his being present had never occurred to her . 
The certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed her . 
She had dressed with more than usual care , and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained unsubdued of his heart , trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening . 
This part of his intelligence , though unheard by Lydia , was caught by Elizabeth , and as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for Wickham 's absence than if her first surmise had been just , every feeling of displeasure againt the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment , that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make . 
She was resolved against any sort of conversation with him , and turned away with a degree of ill humour , which she could not wholly surmount even in speaking to Mr. Bingley , whose blind partiality provoked her . 
But Elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour ; and though every prospect of her own was destroyed for the evening , it could not dwell long on her spirits ; and having told all her griefs to Charlotte Lucas , whom she had not seen for a week , she was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of her cousin , and to point him out to her particular notice . 
Mr. Collins , awkward and solemn , apologising instead of attending , and often moving wrong without being aware of it , gave her all the shame and misery which a disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give . 
The moment of her release from him was exstacy . 
She danced next with an officer , and had the refreshment of talking of Wickham , and of hearing that he was universally liked . 
When those dances were over she returned to Charlotte Lucas , and was in conversation with her , when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy , who took her so much by surprise in his application for her hand , that , without knowing what she did , she accepted him . 
He walked away again immediately , and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of mind ; Charlotte tried to console her . 
Elizabeth made no answer , and took her place in the set , amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy , and reading in her neighbours ' looks their equal amazement in beholding it . 
They stood for some time without speaking a word ; and she began to imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances , and at first was resolved not to break it ; till suddenly fancying that it would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk , she made some slight observation on the dance . 
After a pause of some minutes she addressed him a second time with `` It is your turn to say something now , Mr. Darcy . 
He smiled , and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be said . 
`` Both , '' replied Elizabeth archly ; `` for I have always seen a great similarity in the turn of our minds . 
He made no answer , and they were again silent till they had gone down the dance , when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often walk to Meryton . 
She answered in the affirmative , and , unable to resist the temptation , added , `` When you met us there the other day , we had just been forming a new acquaintance . '' 
A deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features , but he said not a word , and Elizabeth , though blaming herself for her own weakness , could not go on . 
`` He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship , '' replied Elizabeth with emphasis , `` and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all his life . '' 
`` I can readily believe , '' answered he gravely , `` that report may vary greatly with respect to me ; and I could wish , Miss Bennet , that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment , as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either . '' 
`` His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same , '' said Elizabeth angrily ; `` for I have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy 's steward , and of that , I can assure you , he informed me himself . '' 
said Elizabeth to herself . 
-- Elizabeth instantly read her feelings , and at that moment solicitude for Wickham , resentment against his enemies , and every thing else gave way before the hope of Jane 's being in the fairest way for happiness . 
`` I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley 's sincerity , '' said Elizabeth warmly ; `` but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only . 
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each , and on which there could be no difference of sentiment . 
Elizabeth listened with delight to the happy , though modest hopes which Jane entertained of Bingley 's regard , and said all in her power to heighten her confidence in it . 
On their being joined by Mr. Bingley himself , Elizabeth withdrew to Miss Lucas ; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last partner she had scarcely replied , before Mr. Collins came up to them and told her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as to make a most important discovery . 
Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme ; assuring him that Mr. Darcy would consider his addressing him without introduction as an impertinent freedom , rather than a compliment to his aunt ; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either side , and that if it were , it must belong to Mr. Darcy , the superior in consequence , to begin the acquaintance . 
-- Mr. Collins listened to her with the determined air of following his own inclination , and when she ceased speaking , replied thus , `` My dear Miss Elizabeth , I have the highest opinion in the world of your excellent judgment in all matters within the scope of your understanding , but permit me to say that there must be a wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity , and those which regulate the clergy ; for give me leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom -- provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time maintained . 
Mr. Collins then returned to Elizabeth . 
As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue , she turned her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr. Bingley , and the train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to , made her perhaps almost as happy as Jane . 
She saw her in idea settled in that very house in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could bestow ; and she felt capable under such circumstances , of endeavouring even to like Bingley 's two sisters . 
Her mother 's thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way , and she determined not to venture near her , lest she might hear too much . 
When they sat down to supper , therefore , she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within one of each other ; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was talking to that one person -LRB- Lady Lucas -RRB- freely , openly , and of nothing else but of her expectation that Jane would be soon married to Mr. Bingley . 
In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother 's words , or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible whisper ; for to her inexpressible vexation , she could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy , who sat opposite to them . 
Her mother only scolded her for being nonsensical . 
Nothing that she could say , however , had any influence . 
Her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone . 
Elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation . 
She could not help frequently glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy , though every glance convinced her of what she dreaded ; for though he was not always looking at her mother , she was convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her . 
Elizabeth now began to revive . 
But not long was the interval of tranquility ; for when supper was over , singing was talked of , and she had the mortification of seeing Mary , after very little entreaty , preparing to oblige the company . 
Elizabeth 's eyes were fixed on her with most painful sensations ; and she watched her progress through the several stanzas with an impatience which was very ill rewarded at their close ; for Mary , on receiving amongst the thanks of the table , the hint of a hope that she might be prevailed on to favour them again , after the pause of half a minute began another . 
-- Elizabeth was in agonies . 
She looked at Jane , to see how she bore it ; but Jane was very composedly talking to Bingley . 
Mary , though pretending not to hear , was somewhat disconcerted ; and Elizabeth sorry for her , and sorry for her father 's speech , was afraid her anxiety had done no good . 
To Elizabeth it appeared , that had her family made an agreement to expose themselves as much as they could during the evening , it would have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit , or finer success ; and happy did she think it for Bingley and her sister that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice , and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he must have witnessed . 
That his two sisters and Mr. Darcy , however , should have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations was bad enough , and she could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman , or the insolent smiles of the ladies , were more intolerable . 
The rest of the evening brought her little amusement . 
She was teazed by Mr. Collins , who continued most perseveringly by her side , and though he could not prevail with her to dance with him again , put it out of her power to dance with others . 
In vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else , and offer to introduce him to any young lady in the room . 
Elizabeth preserved as steady a silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Bingley ; and even Lydia was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of `` Lord , how tired I am ! '' 
Elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children ; and though the man and the match were quite good enough for her , the worth of each was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield . 
On finding Mrs. Bennet , Elizabeth , and one of the younger girls together , soon after breakfast , he addressed the mother in these words , `` May I hope , Madam , for your interest with your fair daughter Elizabeth , when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in the course of this morning ? '' 
Before Elizabeth had time for any thing but a blush of surprise , Mrs. Bennet instantly answered , `` Oh dear ! 
And gathering her work together , she was hastening away , when Elizabeth called out , `` Dear Ma'am , do not go . 
-- And upon Elizabeth 's seeming really , with vexed and embarrassed looks , about to escape , she added , `` Lizzy , I insist upon your staying and hearing Mr. Collins . '' 
Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction -- and a moment 's consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible , she sat down again , and tried to conceal by incessant employment the feelings which were divided between distress and diversion . 
`` Believe me , my dear Miss Elizabeth , that your modesty , so far from doing you any disservice , rather adds to your other perfections . 
The idea of Mr. Collins , with all his solemn composure , being run away with by his feelings , made Elizabeth so near laughing that she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him farther , and he continued : `` My reasons for marrying are , first , that I think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances -LRB- like myself -RRB- to set the example of matrimony in his parish . 
`` You are too hasty , Sir , '' she cried . 
`` Upon my word , Sir , '' cried Elizabeth , `` your hope is rather an extraordinary one after my declaration . 
And rising as she thus spoke , she would have quitted the room , had not Mr. Collins thus addressed her , `` When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on this subject I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given me ; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present , because I know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application , and perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female character . '' 
`` Really , Mr. Collins , '' cried Elizabeth with some warmth , `` you puzzle me exceedingly . 
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make no reply , and immediately and in silence withdrew ; determined , that if he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering encouragement , to apply to her father , whose negative might be uttered in such a manner as must be decisive , and whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female . 
Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his successful love ; for Mrs. Bennet , having dawdled about in the vestibule to watch for the end of the conference , no sooner saw Elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase , than she entered the breakfast-room , and congratulated both him and herself in warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection . 
Mr. Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure ; and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview , with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied , since the refusal which his cousin had stedfastly given him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character . 
Mrs. Bennet rang the bell , and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the library . 
`` Come here , child , '' cried her father as she appeared . 
Elizabeth replied that it was . 
`` An unhappy alternative is before you , Elizabeth . 
Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning ; but Mrs. Bennet , who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the affair as she wished , was excessively disappointed . 
She talked to Elizabeth again and again ; coaxed and threatened her by turns . 
She endeavoured to secure Jane in her interest , but Jane with all possible mildness declined interfering ; -- and Elizabeth sometimes with real earnestness and sometimes with playful gaiety replied to her attacks . 
Though her manner varied however , her determination never did . 
His regard for her was quite imaginary ; and the possibility of her deserving her mother 's reproach prevented his feeling any regret . 
Charlotte 's reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth . 
Elizabeth passed quietly out of the room , Jane and Kitty followed , but Lydia stood her ground , determined to hear all she could ; and Charlotte , detained first by the civility of Mr. Collins , whose inquiries after herself and all her family were very minute , and then by a little curiosity , satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending not to hear . 
The discussion of Mr. Collins 's offer was now nearly at an end , and Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily attending it , and occasionally from some peevish allusion of her mother . 
As for the gentleman himself , his feelings were chiefly expressed , not by embarrassment or dejection , or by trying to avoid her , but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence . 
He scarcely ever spoke to her , and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself , were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas , whose civility in listening to him , was a seasonable relief to them all , and especially to her friend . 
Elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit , but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it . 
-- To Elizabeth , however , he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence had been self imposed . 
She highly approved his forbearance , and they had leisure for a full discussion of it , and for all the commendation which they civilly bestowed on each other , as Wickham and another officer walked back with them to Longbourn , and during the walk , he particularly attended to her . 
His accompanying them was a double advantage ; she felt all the compliment it offered to herself , and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to her father and mother . 
Soon after their return , a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet ; it came from Netherfield , and was opened immediately . 
The envelope contained a sheet of elegant , little , hot pressed paper , well covered with a lady 's fair , flowing hand ; and Elizabeth saw her sister 's countenance change as she read it , and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages . 
Jane recollected herself soon , and putting the letter away , tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation ; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham ; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave , than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her upstairs : When they had gained their own room , Jane taking out the letter , said , `` This is from Caroline Bingley ; what it contains , has surprised me a good deal . 
To these high flown expressions , Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust ; and though the suddenness of their romoval surprised her , she saw nothing in it really to lament ; it was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley 's being there ; and as to the loss of their society , she was persuaded that Jane must soon cease to regard it , in the enjoyment of his . 
`` You must decide for yourself , '' said Elizabeth , `` and if upon mature deliberation , you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is more than eqivalent to the happiness of being his wife , I advise you by all means to refuse him . '' 
The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt . 
It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline 's interested wishes , and she could not for a moment suppose that those wishes , however openly or artfully spoken , could influence a young man so totally independent of every one . 
She represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she felt on the subject , and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect . 
Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her . 
`` It keeps him in good humour , '' said she , `` and I am more obliged to you than I can express . '' 
This was very amiable , but Charlotte 's kindness extended farther than Elizabeth had any conception of ; -- its object was nothing less , than to secure her from any return of Mr. Collins 's addresses , by engaging them towards herself . 
The least agreeable circumstance in the business , was the surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet , whose friendship she valued beyond that of any other person . 
Elizabeth would wonder , and probably would blame her ; and though her resolution was not to be shaken , her feelings must be hurt by such disapprobation . 
She resolved to give her the information herself , and therefore charged Mr. Collins when he returned to Longbourn to dinner , to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family . 
As for my fair cousins , though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary , I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness , not excepting my cousin Elizabeth . '' 
Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast , and in a private conference with Elizabeth related the event of the day before . 
The possibility of Mr. Collins 's fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two ; but that Charlotte could encourage him , seemed almost as far from possibility as that she could encourage him herself , and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum , and she could not help crying out , `` Engaged to Mr. Collins ! 
But Elizabeth had now recollected herself , and making a strong effort for it , was able to assure her with tolerable firmness that the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her , and that she wished her all imaginable happiness . 
Elizabeth quietly answered `` Undoubtedly ; '' -- and after an awkward pause , they returned to the rest of the family . 
Charlotte did not stay much longer , and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard . 
It was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match . 
She had always felt that Charlotte 's opinion of matrimony was not exactly like her own , but she could not have supposed it possible that when called into action , she would have sacrificed every better feeling to worldly advantage . 
Elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters , reflecting on what she had heard , and doubting whether she were authorised to mention it , when Sir William Lucas himself appeared , sent by his daughter to announce her engagement to the family . 
Elizabeth , feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation , now put herself forward to confirm his account , by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself ; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters , by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William , in which she was readily joined by Jane , and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match , the excellent character of Mr. Collins , and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London . 
Two inferences , however , were plainly deduced from the whole ; one , that Elizabeth was the real cause of all the mischief ; and the other , that she herself had been barbarously used by them all ; and on these two points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day . 
Nothing could console and nothing appease her . 
-- Nor did that day wear out her resentment . 
A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without scolding her , a month passed away before she could speak to Sir William or Lady Lucas without being rude , and many months were gone before she could at all forgive their daughter . 
Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match ; but she said less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness ; nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable . 
Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject ; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again . 
Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister , of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could never be shaken , and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious , as Bingley had now been gone a week , and nothing was heard of his return . 
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject . 
Even Elizabeth began to fear -- not that Bingley was indifferent -- but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away . 
Unwilling as she was to admit an idea so destructive of Jane 's happiness , and so dishonourable to the stability of her lover , she could not prevent its frequently recurring . 
As for Jane , her anxiety under this suspence was , of course , more painful than Elizabeth 's ; but whatever she felt she was desirous of concealing , and between herself and Elizabeth , therefore , the subject was never alluded to . 
But as no such delicacy restrained her mother , an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley , express her impatience for his arrival , or even require . 
Elizabeth , to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this , heard it in silent indignation . 
Her heart was divided between concern for her sister , and resentment against all the others . 
A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to Elizabeth ; but at last on Mrs. Bennet 's leaving them together , after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master , she could not help saying , `` Oh ! 
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude , but said nothing . 
exclaimed Elizabeth , `` you are too good . 
Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit , and threw back the praise on her sister 's warm affection . 
`` Nay , '' said Elizabeth , `` this is not fair . 
`` I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley 's conduct to design , '' said Elizabeth ; `` but without scheming to do wrong , or to make others unhappy , there may be error , and there may be misery . 
Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish ; and from this time Mr. Bingley 's name was scarcely ever mentioned between them . 
Mrs. Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning no more , and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did not account for it clearly , there seemed little chance of her ever considering it with less perplexity . 
Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she did not believe herself , that his attentions to Jane had been merely the effect of a common and transient liking , which ceased when he saw her no more ; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at the time , she had the same story to repeat every day . 
The whole of what Elizabeth had already heard , his claims on Mr. Darcy , and all that he had suffered from him , was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed ; and every body was pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they had known any thing of the matter . 
Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any extenuating circumstances in the case , unknown to the society of Hertfordshire ; her mild and steady candour always pleaded for allowances , and urged the possibility of mistakes -- but by everybody else Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men . 
Mrs. Gardiner , to whom the chief of this news had been given before , in the course of Jane and Elizabeth 's correspondence with her , made her sister a slight answer , and in compassion to her nieces turned the conversation . 
When alone with Elizabeth afterwards , she spoke more on the subject . 
`` It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane , '' said she . 
`` An excellent consolation in its way , '' said Elizabeth , `` but it will not do for us . 
Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal , and felt persuaded of her sister 's ready acquiescence . 
But in spite of the certainty in which Elizabeth affected to place this point , as well as the still more interesting one of Bingley 's being withheld from seeing Jane , she felt a solicitude on the subject which convinced her , on examination , that she did not consider it entirely hopeless . 
Miss Bennet accepted her aunt 's invitation with pleasure ; and the Bingleys were no otherwise in her thoughts at the time , than as she hoped that , by Caroline 's not living in the same house with her brother , she might occasionally spend a morning with her , without any danger of seeing him . 
When the engagement was for home , some of the officers always made part of it , of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one ; and on these occasions , Mrs. Gardiner , rendered suspicious by Elizabeth 's warm commendation of him , narrowly observed them both . 
Without supposing them , from what she saw , to be very seriously in love , their preference of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy ; and she resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before she left Hertfordshire , and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such an attachment . 
Mrs. Gardiner 's caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly given on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone ; after honestly telling her what she thought , she thus went on : `` You are too sensible a girl , Lizzy , to fall in love merely because you are warned against it ; and , therefore , I am not afraid of speaking openly . 
`` Elizabeth , you are not serious now . '' 
`` As I did the other day , '' said Elizabeth , with a conscious smile ; `` very true , it will be wise in me to refrain from that . 
Her aunt assured her that she was ; and Elizabeth having thanked her for the kindness of her hints , they parted ; a wonderful instance of advice being given on such a point , without being resented . 
Thursday was to be the wedding day , and on Wednesday Miss Lucy as paid her farewell visit ; and when she rose to take leave , Elizabeth , ashamed of her mother 's ungracious and reluctant good wishes , and sincerely affected herself , accompanied her out of the room . 
Elizabeth could not refuse , though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit . 
Elizabeth soon heard from her friend ; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been ; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible . 
Elizabeth could never address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over , and , though determined not to slacken as a correspondent , it was for the sake of what had been , rather than what was . 
Charlotte 's first letters were received with a good deal of eagerness ; there could not but be curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home , how she would like Lady Catherine , and how happy she would dare pronounce herself to be ; though , when the letters were read , Elizabeth felt that Charlotte expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen . 
It was Mr. Collins 's picture of Hunsford and Rosings rationally softened ; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit there , to know the rest . 
Jane had already written a few lines to her sister to announce their safe arrival in London ; and when she wrote again , Elizabeth hoped it would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys . 
Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is . 
Elizabeth shook her head over this letter . 
It convinced her , that accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley her sister 's being in town . 
`` Your 's , & c. '' This letter gave Elizabeth some pain ; but her spirits returned as she considered that Jane would no longer be duped , by the sister at least . 
Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise concerning that gentleman , and required information ; and Elizabeth had such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to herself . 
Elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all , but she could see it and write of it without material pain . 
Her heart had been but slightly touched , and her vanity was satisfied with believing that she would have been his only choice , had fortune permitted it . 
The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady , to whom he was now rendering himself agreeable ; but Elizabeth , less clear-sighted perhaps in his case than in Charlotte 's , did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence . 
March was to take Elizabeth to Hunsford . 
She had not at first thought very seriously of going thither ; but Charlotte , she soon found , was depending on the plan , and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty . 
His present pursuit could not make him forget that Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention , the first to listen and to pity , the first to be admired ; and in his manner of bidding her adieu , wishing her every enjoyment , reminding her of what she was to expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh , and trusting their opinion of her -- their opinion of every body -- would always coincide , there was a solicitude , an interest which she felt must ever attach her to him with a most sincere regard ; and she parted from him convinced , that whether married or single , he must always be her model of the amiable and pleasing . 
Elizabeth loved absurdities , but she had known Sir William 's too long . 
He could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood ; and his civilities were worn out like his information . 
As they drove to Mr. Gardiner 's door , Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival ; when they entered the passage she was there to welcome them , and Elizabeth , looking earnestly in her face , was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever . 
On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls , whose eagerness for their cousin 's appearance would not allow them to wait in the drawing-room , and whose shyness , as they had not seen her for a twelvemonth , prevented their coming lower . 
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt . 
Their first subject was her sister ; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear , in reply to her minute enquiries , that though Jane always struggled to support her spirits , there were periods of dejection . 
`` But , my dear Elizabeth , '' she added , `` what sort of girl is Miss King ? 
`` Well , '' cried Elizabeth , `` have it as you choose . 
Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play , she had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer . 
No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth , and her acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful . 
`` My dear , dear aunt , '' she rapturously cried , `` what delight ! 
Every object in the next day 's journey was new and interesting to Elizabeth ; and her spirits were in a state for enjoyment ; for she had seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her health , and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant source of delight . 
Elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants . 
Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure , and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming , when she found herself so affectionately received . 
She saw instantly that her cousin 's manners were not altered by his marriage ; his formal civility was just what it had been , and he detained her some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his enquiries after all her family . 
Elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory ; and she could not help fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room , its aspect and its furniture , he addressed himself particularly to her , as if wishing to make her feel what she had lost in refusing him . 
But though every thing seemed neat and comfortable , she was not able to gratify him by any sigh of repentance ; and rather looked with wonder at her friend that she could have so cheerful an air , with such a companion . 
To work in his garden was one of his most respectable pleasures ; and Elizabeth admired the command of countenance with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise , and owned she encouraged it as much as possible . 
It was rather small , but well built and convenient ; and every thing was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency of which Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit . 
When Mr. Collins could be forgotten , there was really a great air of comfort throughout , and by Charlotte 's evident enjoyment of it , Elizabeth supposed he must be often forgotten . 
She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country . 
It was spoken of again while they were at dinner , when Mr. Collins joining in , observed , `` Yes , Miss Elizabeth , you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church , and I need not say you will be delighted with her . 
The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news , and telling again what had been already written ; and when it closed , Elizabeth in the solitude of her chamber had to meditate upon Charlotte 's degree of contentment , to understand her address in guiding , and composure in bearing with her husband , and to acknowledge that it was all done very well . 
Elizabeth asked questions in vain ; Maria would tell her nothing more , and down they ran into the dining-room , which fronted the lane , in quest of this wonder ; it was two ladies stopping in a low phaeton at the garden gate . 
cried Elizabeth . 
`` I like her appearance , '' said Elizabeth , struck with other ideas . 
Mr. Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation with the ladies ; and Sir William , to Elizabeth 's high diversion , was stationed in the door-way , in earnest contemplation of the greatness before him , and constantly bowing whenever Miss De Bourgh looked that way . 
When the ladies were separating for the toilette , he said to Elizabeth , `` Do not make yourself uneasy , my dear cousin , about your apparel . 
-- Every park has its beauty and its prospects ; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with , though she could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire , and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house , and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis De Bourgh . 
-- Elizabeth 's courage did not fail her . 
She had heard nothing of Lady Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue , and the mere stateliness of money and rank , she thought she could witness without trepidation . 
Elizabeth found herself quite equal to the scene , and could observe the three ladies before her composedly . 
She was not rendered formidable by silence ; but whatever she said , was spoken in so authoritative a tone , as marked her self-importance , and brought Mr. Wickham immediately to Elizabeth 's mind ; and from the observation of the day altogether , she believed Lady Catherine to be exactly what he had represented . 
-- He carved , and ate , and praised with delighted alacrity ; and every dish was commended , first by him , and then by Sir William , who was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son in law said , in a manner which Elizabeth wondered Lady Catherine could bear . 
Elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an opening , but she was seated between Charlotte and Miss De Bourgh -- the former of whom was engaged in listening to Lady Catherine , and the latter said not a word to her all dinner time . 
Elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great Lady 's attention , which could furnish her with an occasion of dictating to others . 
In the intervals of her discourse with Mrs. Collins , she addressed a variety of questions to Maria and Elizabeth , but especially to the latter , of whose connections she knew the least , and who she observed to Mrs. Collins , was a very genteel , pretty kind of girl . 
-- Elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions , but answered them very composedly . 
-- Do you play and sing , Miss Bennet ? '' 
Elizabeth could hardly help smiling , as she assured her that had not been the case . 
Are any of your younger sisters out , Miss Bennet ? '' 
Perhaps she is full young to be much in company . 
`` Upon my word , '' said her Ladyship , `` you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person . 
`` With three younger sisters grown up , '' replied Elizabeth smiling , `` your Ladyship can hardly expect me to own it . '' 
Lady Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer ; and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence ? 
As soon as they had driven from the door , Elizabeth was called on by her cousin , to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings , which , for Charlotte 's sake , she made more favourable than it really was . 
While Sir William was with them , Mr. Collins devoted his mornings to driving him out in his gig , and shewing him the country ; but when he went away , the whole family returned to their usual employments , and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her cousin by the alteration , for the chief of the time between breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden , or in reading and writing , and looking out of window in his own book room , which fronted the road . 
Elizabeth at first had rather wondered that Charlotte should not prefer the dining parlour for common use ; it was a better sized room , and had a pleasanter aspect ; but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent reason for what she did , for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment , had they sat in one equally lively ; and she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement . 
Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings , and not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise ; and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of , she could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours . 
Now and then , they were honoured with a call from her Ladyship , and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during these visits . 
She examined into their employments , looked at their work , and advised them to do it differently ; found fault with the arrangement of the furniture , or detected the housemaid in negligence ; and if she accepted any refreshment , seemed to do it only for the sake of finding out that Mrs. Collins 's joints of meat were too large for her family . 
Elizabeth soon perceived that though this great lady was not in the commission of the peace for the county , she was a most active magistrate in her own parish , the minutest concerns of which were carried to her by Mr. Collins ; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be quarrelsome , discontented or too poor , she sallied forth into the village to settle their differences , silence their complaints , and scold them into harmony and plenty . 
This however was no evil to Elizabeth , and upon the whole she spent her time comfortably enough ; there were half hours of pleasant conversation with Charlotte , and the weather was so fine for the time of year , that she had often great enjoyment out of doors . 
Elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival , that Mr. Darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks , and though there were not many of her acquaintance whom she did not prefer , his coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties , and she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley 's designs on him were , by his behaviour to his cousin , for whom he was evidently destined by Lady Catherine ; who talked of his coming with the greatest satisfaction , spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration , and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by Miss Lucas and herself . 
Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment , before their approach was announced by the door-bell , and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room . 
Elizabeth merely curtseyed to him , without saying a word . 
At lenght , however , his civility was so far awakened as to enquire of Elizabeth after the health of her family . 
She answered him in the usual way , and after a moment 's pause , added , `` My eldest sister has been in town these three months . 
She was perfectly sensible that he never had ; but she wished to see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the Bingleys and Jane ; and she thought he looked a little confused as he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet . 
He now seated himself by her , and talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire , of travelling and staying at home , of new books and music , that Elizabeth had never been half so well entertained in that room before ; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself , as well as of Mr. Darcy . 
What are you telling Miss Bennet ? 
I have told Miss Bennet several times , that she will never play really well , unless she practises more ; and though Mrs. Collins has no instrument , she is very welcome , as I have often told her , to come to Rosings every day , and play on the piano forte in Mrs. Jenkinson 's room . 
When coffee was over , Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having promised to play to him ; and she sat down directly to the instrument . 
He drew a chair near her . 
Elizabeth saw what he was doing , and at the first convenient pause , turned to him with an arch smile , and said , `` You mean to frighten me , Mr. Darcy , by coming in all this state to hear me ? 
Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself , and said to Colonel Fitzwilliam , `` Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me , and teach you not to believe a word I say . 
said Elizabeth , still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam . 
`` My fingers , '' said Elizabeth , `` do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which I see so many women 's do . 
Elizabeth immediately began playing again . 
Lady Catherine approached , and , after listening for a few minutes , said to Darcy , `` Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss , if she practised more , and could have the advantage of a London master . 
She has a very good notion of fingering , though her taste is not equal to Anne 's . 
Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his cousin 's praise ; but neither at that moment nor at any other could she discern any symptom of love ; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss De Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley , that he might have been just as likely to marry her , had she been his relation . 
Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeth 's performance , mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste . 
Elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility ; and at the request of the gentlemen remained at the instrument till her Ladyship 's carriage was ready to take them all home . 
Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning , and writing to Jane , while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the village , when she was startled by a ring at the door , the certain signal of a visitor . 
Elizabeth made no answer . 
She was afraid of talking longer of his friend ; and , having nothing else to say , was now determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him . 
`` I should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages of the match , '' cried Elizabeth . 
As he spoke there was a sort of smile , which Elizabeth fancied she understood ; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and Netherfield , and she blushed as she answered , `` I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her family . 
Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her , and said , `` You can not have a right to such very strong local attachment . 
Elizabeth looked surprised . 
Mr. Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding on Miss Bennet , and after sitting a few minutes longer without saying much to any body , went away . 
But when Elizabeth told of his silence , it did not seem very likely , even to Charlotte 's wishes , to be the case ; and after various conjectures , they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from the difficulty of finding any thing to do , which was the more probable from the time of year . 
It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he had pleasure in their society , a persuasion which of course recommended him still more ; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in being with him , as well as by his evident admiration of her , of her former favourite George Wickham ; and though , in comparing them , she saw there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam 's manners , she believed he might have the best informed mind . 
She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his being partial to her , but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea ; and Mrs. Collins did not think it right to press the subject , from the danger of raising expectations which might only end in disappointment ; for in her opinion it admitted not of a doubt , that all her friend 's dislike would vanish , if she could suppose him to be in her power . 
In her kind schemes for Elizabeth , she sometimes planned her marrying Colonel Fitzwilliam . 
He was beyond comparison the pleasantest man ; he certainly admired her , and his situation in life was most eligible ; but , to counter-balance these advantages , Mr. Darcy had considerable patronage in the church , and his cousin could have none at all . 
More than once did Elizabeth in her ramble within the Park , unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy . 
-- She felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought ; and to prevent its ever happening again , took care to inform him at first , that it was a favourite haunt of hers . 
`` Is this , '' thought Elizabeth , `` meant for me ? '' 
and she coloured at the idea ; but , recovering herself , said in a lively tone , `` and pray , what is the usual price of an Earl 's younger son ? 
He answered her in the same style , and the subject dropped . 
To interrupt a silence which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed , she soon afterwards said , `` I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of having somebody at his disposal . 
As she spoke , she observed him looking at her earnestly , and the manner in which he immediately asked her why she supposed Miss Darcy likely to give them any uneasiness , convinced her that she had somehow or other got pretty near the truth . 
yes , '' said Elizabeth drily -- `` Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to Mr. Bingley , and takes a prodigious deal of care of him . '' 
Elizabeth made no answer , and walked on , her heart swelling with indignation . 
After watching her a little , Fitzwilliam asked her why she was so thoughtful . 
`` I am thinking of what you have been telling me , '' said she . 
`` But , '' she continued , recollecting herself , `` as we know none of the particulars , it is not fair to condemn him . 
This was spoken jestingly , but it appeared to her so just a picture of Mr. Darcy , that she would not trust herself with an answer ; and , therefore , abruptly changing the conversation , talked on indifferent matters till they reached the parsonage . 
There , shut into her own room , as soon as their visitor left them , she could think without interruption of all that she had heard . 
It was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom she was connected . 
When they were gone , Elizabeth , as if intending to exasperate herself as much as possible against Mr. Darcy , chose for her employment the examination of all the letters which Jane had written to her since her being in Kent . 
Elizabeth noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness , with an attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal . 
Mr. Darcy 's shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict , gave her a keener sense of her sister 's sufferings . 
It was some consolation to think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the next , and a still greater , that in less than a fortnight she should herself be with Jane again , and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her spirits , by all that affection could do . 
Elizabeth was surprised , but said not a word . 
After a silence of several minutes he came towards her in an agitated manner , and thus began . 
Elizabeth 's astonishment was beyond expression . 
She stared , coloured , doubted , and was silent . 
This he considered sufficient encouragement , and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her , immediately followed . 
His sense of her inferiority -- of its being a degradation -- of the family obstacles which judgment had always opposed to inclination , were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was wounding , but was very unlikely to recommend his suit . 
In spite of her deeply-rooted dislike , she could not be insensible to the compliment of such a man 's affection , and though her intentions did not vary for an instant , she was at first sorry for the pain he was to receive ; till , roused to resentment by his subsequent language , she lost all compassion in anger . 
She tried , however , to compose herself to answer him with patience , when he should have done . 
He concluded with representing to her the strength of that attachment which , in spite of all his endeavours , he had found impossible to conquer ; and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of his hand . 
As he said this , she could easily see that he had no doubt of a favourable answer . 
Such a circumstance could only exasperate farther , and when he ceased , the colour rose into her cheeks , and she said , `` In such cases as this , it is , I believe , the established mode to express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed , however unequally they may be returned . 
Mr. Darcy , who was leaning against the mantle-piece with his eyes fixed on her face , seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than surprise . 
The pause was to Elizabeth 's feelings dreadful . 
`` I might as well enquire , '' replied she , `` why with so evident a design of offending and insulting me , you chose to tell me that you liked me against your will , against your reason , and even against your character ? 
As she pronounced these words , Mr. Darcy changed colour ; but the emotion was short , and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she continued . 
She paused , and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse . 
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity . 
she repeated . 
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection , but its meaning did not escape , nor was it likely to conciliate her . 
`` But it is not merely this affair , '' she continued , `` on which my dislike is founded . 
`` And of your infliction , '' cried Elizabeth with energy . 
But perhaps , '' added he , stopping in his walk , and turning towards her , `` these offences might have been overlooked , had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design . 
Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment ; yet she tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said , `` You are mistaken , Mr. Darcy , if you suppose that the mode of your declaration affected me in any other way , than as it spared me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you , had you behaved in a more gentleman-like manner . '' 
She saw him start at this , but he said nothing , and she continued , `` You could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept it . '' 
Again his astonishment was obvious ; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification . 
She went on . 
And with these words he hastily left the room , and Elizabeth heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house . 
The tumult of her mind was now painfully great . 
She knew not how to support herself , and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half an hour . 
Her astonishment , as she reflected on what had passed , was increased by every review of it . 
That she should receive an offer of marriage from Mr. Darcy ! 
that he should have been in love with her for so many months ! 
so much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections which had made him prevent his friend 's marrying her sister , and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case , was almost incredible ! 
Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes . 
She could not yet recover from the surprise of what had happened ; it was impossible to think of any thing else , and totally indisposed for employment , she resolved soon after breakfast to indulge herself in air and exercise . 
She was proceeding directly to her favourite walk , when the recollection of Mr. Darcy 's sometimes coming there stopped her , and instead of entering the park , she turned up the lane , which led her farther from the turnpike road . 
The park paling was still the boundary on one side , and she soon passed one of the gates into the ground . 
After walking two or three times along that part of the lane , she was tempted , by the pleasantness of the morning , to stop at the gates and look into the park . 
The five weeks which she had now passed in Kent , had made a great difference in the country , and every day was adding to the verdure of the early trees . 
She was on the point of continuing her walk , when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park ; he was moving that way ; and fearful of its being Mr. Darcy , she was directly retreating . 
But the person who advanced , was now near enough to see her , and stepping forward with eagerness , pronounced her name . 
She had turned away , but on hearing herself called , though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy , she moved again towards the gate . 
He had by that time reached it also , and holding out a letter , which she instinctively took , said with a look of haughty composure , `` I have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you . 
With no expectation of pleasure , but with the strongest curiosity , Elizabeth opened the letter , and to her still increasing wonder , perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper , written quite through , in a very close hand . 
-- Pursuing her way along the lane , she then began it . 
From that moment I observed my friend 's behavior attentively ; and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was beyond what I had ever witnessed in him . 
If Elizabeth , when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter , did not expect it to contain a renewal of his offers , she had formed no expectation at all of its contents . 
But such as they were , it may be well supposed how eagerly she went through them , and what a contrariety of emotion they excited . 
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined . 
With amazement did she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power ; and stedfastly was she persuaded that he could have no explanation to give , which a just sense of shame would not conceal . 
With a strong prejudice against every thing he might say , she began his account of what had happened at Netherfield . 
She read , with an eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension , and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring , was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes . 
His belief of her sister 's insensibility , she instantly resolved to be false , and his account of the real , the worst objections to the match , made her too angry to have any wish of doing him justice . 
He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her ; his style was not penitent , but haughty . 
But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. Wickham , when she read with somewhat clearer attention , a relation of events , which , if true , must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth , and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself , her feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition . 
Astonishment , apprehension , and even horror , oppressed her . 
She wished to discredit it entirely , repeatedly exclaiming , `` This must be false ! 
-- and when she had gone through the whole letter , though scarcely knowing any thing of the last page or two , put it hastily away , protesting that she would not regard it , that she would never look in it again . 
In this perturbed state of mind , with thoughts that could rest on nothing , she walked on ; but it would not do ; in half a minute the letter was unfolded again , and collecting herself as well as she could , she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham , and commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence . 
The account of his connection with the Pemberley family , was exactly what he had related himself ; and the kindness of the late Mr. Darcy , though she had not before known its extent , agreed equally well with his own words . 
So far each recital confirmed the other : but when she came to the will , the difference was great . 
What Wickham had said of the lving was fresh in her memory , and as she recalled his very words , it was impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the other ; and , for a few moments , she flattered herself that her wishes did not err . 
But when she read , and re-read with the closest attention , the particulars immediately following of Wickham 's resigning all pretensions to the living , of his receiving in lieu , so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds , again was she forced to hesitate , She put down the letter , weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be impartiality -- deliberated on the probability of each statement -- but with little success . 
Again she read on . 
But every line proved more clearly that the affair , which she had believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent , as to render Mr. Darcy 's conduct in it less than infamous , was capable of a turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole . 
The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to Mr. Wickham 's charge , exceedingly shocked her ; the more so , as she could bring no proof of its injustice . 
She had never heard of him before his entrance into the -- shire Militia , in which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man , who , on meeting him accidentally in town , had there renewed a slight acquaintance . 
As to his real character , had information been in her power , she had never felt a wish of enquiring . 
She tried to recollect some instance of goodness , some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence , that might rescue him from the attacks of Mr. Darcy ; or at least , by the predominance of virtue , atone for those casual errors , under which she would endeavour to class , what Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years continuance . 
But no such recollection befriended her . 
She could see him instantly before her , in every charm of air and address ; but she could remember no more substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood , and the regard which his social powers had gained him in the mess . 
After pausing on this point a considerable while , she once more continued to read . 
-- Elizabeth could but just affect concern in missing him ; she really rejoiced at it . 
Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting , that had she chosen it , she might by this time have been presented to her , as her future niece ; nor could she think , without a smile , of what her ladyship 's indignation would have been . 
were questions with which she amused herself . 
Lady Catherine observed , after dinner , that Miss Bennet seemed out of spirits , and immediately accounting for it herself , by supposing that she did not like to go home again so soon , she added , `` But if that is the case , you must write to your mother to beg that you may stay a little longer . 
`` I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation , '' replied Elizabeth , `` but it is not in my power to accept it . 
Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey , and as she did not answer them all herself , attention was necessary , which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her ; or , with a mind so occupied , she might have forgotten where she was . 
Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours ; whenever she was alone , she gave way to it as the greatest relief ; and not a day went by without a solitary walk , in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections . 
Mr. Darcy 's letter , she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart . 
She studied every sentence : and her feelings towards its writer were at times widely different . 
When sheremembered the style of his address , she was still full of indignation ; but when she considered how unjustly she had condemned and upbraided him , her anger was turned against herself ; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion . 
His attachment excited gratitude , his general character respect ; but she could not approve him ; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal , or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again . 
In her own past behaviour , there was a constant source of vexation and regret ; and in the unhappy defects of her family a subject of yet heavier chagrin . 
Her father , contented with laughing at them , would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his youngest daughters ; and her mother , with manners so far from right herself , was entirely insensible of the evil . 
Elizabeth had frequently united with Jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine and Lydia ; but while they were supported by their mother 's indulgence , what chance could there be of improvement ? 
On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared ; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary . 
`` I know not , Miss Elizabeth , '' said he , `` whether Mrs. Collins has yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us , but I am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for it . 
Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness . 
She had spent six weeks with great enjoyment ; and the pleasure of being with Charlotte , and the kind attentions she had received , must make her feel the obliged . 
Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings ; and he was obliged to walk about the room , while Elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences . 
Only let me assure you , my dear Miss Elizabeth , that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage . 
Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case , and with equal sincerity could add that she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts . 
She was not sorry , however , to have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from whom they sprung . 
After an affectionate parting between the friends , Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by Mr. Collins , and as they walked down the garden , he was commissioning her with his best respects to all her family , not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter , and his compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner , though unknown . 
Elizabeth made no objection ; -- the door was then allowed to be shut , and the carriage drove off . 
Elizabeth privately added , `` and how much I shall have to conceal . '' 
Jane looked well , and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits , amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt had reserved for them . 
cried Elizabeth , with the greatest satisfaction . 
`` Yes , '' thought Elizabeth ; `` that would be a delightful scheme , indeed , and completely do for us at once . 
Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other , and the waiter was told that he need not stay . 
added Elizabeth ; `` safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune . '' 
Elizabeth was shocked to think that , however incapable of such coarseness of expression herself , the coarseness of the sentiment was little other than her own breast had formerly harboured and fancied liberal ! 
Elizabeth listened as little as she could , but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham 's name . 
Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to see Jane in undiminished beauty ; and more than once during dinner did Mr. Bennet say voluntarily to Elizabeth , `` I am glad you are come back , Lizzy . '' 
In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to Meryton and see how every body went on ; but Elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme . 
Elizabeth saw directly that her father had not the smallest intention of yielding ; but his answers were at the same time so vague and equivocal , that her mother , though often disheartened , had never yet despaired of succeeding at last . 
Elizabeth 's impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome ; and at length resolving to suppress every particular in which her sister was concerned , and preparing her to be surprised , she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and herself . 
Miss Bennet 's astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly natural ; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings . 
She was sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them ; but still more was she grieved for the unhappiness which her sister 's refusal must have given him . 
`` His being so sure of succeeding , was wrong , '' said she ; `` and certainly ought not to have appeared ; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment . '' 
`` Indeed , '' replied Elizabeth , `` I am heartily sorry for him ; but he has other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me . 
She then spoke of the letter , repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned George Wickham . 
`` This will not do , '' said Elizabeth . 
Miss Bennet paused a little and then replied , `` Surely there can be no occasion for exposing him so dreadfully , What is your own opinion ? '' 
The tumult of Elizabeth 's mind was allayed by this conversation . 
She had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for a fortnight , and was certain of a willing listener in Jane , whenever she might wish to talk again of either . 
But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation , she made no answer . 
`` Well , Lizzy , '' continued her mother soon afterwards , `` and so the Collinses live very comfortable , do they ? 
Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them ; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame . 
She felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy 's objections ; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend . 
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable , and Jane to make her resigned . 
As for Elizabeth herself , this invitation was so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia , that she considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense for the latter ; and detestable as such a step must make her were it known , she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her go . 
`` If you were aware , '' said Elizabeth , `` of the very great disadvantage to us all , which must arise from the public notice of Lydia 's unguarded and imprudent manner ; nay , which has already arisen from it , I am sure you would judge differently in the affair . '' 
Mr. Bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject ; and affectionately taking her hand , said in reply , `` Do not make yourself uneasy , my love . 
With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content ; but her own opinion continued the same , and she left him disappointed and sorry . 
It was not in her nature , however , to increase her vexations , by dwelling on them . 
She was confident of having performed her duty , and to fret over unavoidable evils , or augment them by anxiety , was no part of her disposition . 
Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time . 
Having been frequently in company with him since her return , agitation was pretty well over ; the agitations of former partiality entirely so . 
She had even learnt to detect , in the very gentleness which had first delighted her , an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary . 
In his present behaviour to herself , moreover , she had a fresh source of displeasure , for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance , could only serve , after what had since passed , to provoke her . 
She lost all concern for him in finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous gallantry ; and while she steadily repressed it , could not but feel the reproof contained in his believing , that however long , and for whatever cause , his attentions had been withdrawn , her vanity would be gratified and her preference secured at any time by their renewal . 
On the very last day of the regiment 's remaining in Meryton , he dined with others of the officers at Longbourn ; and so little was Elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour , that on his making some enquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford , she mentioned Colonel Eitzwilliam 's and Mr. Darcy 's having both spent three weeks at Rosings , and asked him if he were acquainted with the former . 
He looked surprised , displeased , alarmed ; but with a moment 's recollection and a returning smile , replied , that he had formerly seen him often ; and after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man , asked her how she had liked him . 
Her answer was warmly in his favour . 
cried Wickham with a look which did not escape her . 
said Elizabeth . 
While she spoke , Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over her words , or to distrust their meaning . 
There was a something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention , while she added , `` When I said that he improved on acquaintance , I did not mean that either his mind or manners were in a state of improvement , but that from knowing him better , his disposition was better understood . '' 
Wickham 's alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look ; for a few minutes he was silent ; till , shaking off his embarrassment , he turned to her again , and said in the gentlest of accents , `` You , who so well know my feelings towards Mr. Darcy , will readily comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume even the appearance of what is right . 
Elizabeth could not repress a smile at this , but she answered only by a slight inclination of the head . 
She saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances , and she was in no humour to indulge him . 
The rest of the evening passed with the appearance , on her side , of usual cheerfulness , but with no farther attempt to distinguish Elizabeth ; and they parted at last with mutual civility , and possibly a mutual desire of never meeting again . 
Had Elizabeth 's opinion been all drawn from her own family , she could not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort . 
Her father captivated by youth and beauty , and that appearance of good humour , which youth and beauty generally give , had married a woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind , had very early in their marriage put an end to all real affection for her . 
Elizabeth , however , had never been blind to the impropriety of her father 's behaviour as a husband . 
She had always seen it with pain ; but respecting his abilities , and grateful for his affectionate treatment of herself , she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook , and to banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which , in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own children , was so highly reprehensible . 
When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham 's departure , she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment . 
Their parties abroad were less varied than before ; and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dulness of every thing around them , threw a real gloom over their domestic circle ; and , though Kitty might in time regain her natural degree of sense , since the disturbers of her brain were removed , her other sister , from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended , was likely to be hardened in all her folly and assurance , by a situation of such double danger as a watering place and a camp . 
Mrs. Bennet was restored to her usual querulous serenity , and by the middle of June Kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears ; an event of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth hope , that by the following Christmas , she might be so tolerably reasonable as not to mention an officer above once a day , unless by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the waroffice , another regiment should be quartered in Meryton . 
Elizabeth was excessively disappointed ; she had set her heart on seeing the Lakes ; and still thought there might have been time enough . 
But it was her business to be satisfied -- and certainly her temper to be happy ; and all was soon right again . 
It was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its owner . 
`` But surely , '' said she , `` I may enter his county with impunity , and rob it of a few petrified spars without his perceiving me . '' 
Four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt 's arrival . 
The Gardiners staid only one night at Longbourn , and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement . 
To the little town of Lambton , the scene of Mrs. Gardiner 's former residence , and where she had lately learned that some acquaintance still remained , they bent their steps , after having seen all the principal wonders of the country ; and within five miles of Lambton , Elizabeth found from her aunt , that Pemberley was situated . 
Mr. Gardiner declared his willingness , and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation . 
said her aunt . 
Elizabeth was distressed . 
She felt that she had no business at Pemberley , and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it . 
She must own that she was tired of great houses ; after going over so many , she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains . '' 
Elizabeth said no more -- but her mind could not acquiesce . 
She blushed at the very idea ; and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt , than to run such a risk . 
But against this , there were objections ; and she finally resolved that it could be the last resource , if her private enquiries as to the absence of the family , were unfavourably answered . 
Accordingly , when she retired at night , she asked the chambermaid whether Pemberley were not a very fine place , what was the name of its proprietor , and with no little alarm , whether the family were down for the summer . 
A most welcome negative followed the last question -- and her alarms being now removed , she was at leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house herself ; and when the subject was revived the next morning , and she was again applied to , could readily answer , and with a proper air of indifference , that she had not really any dislike to the scheme . 
Elizabeth , as they drove along , watched for the first appearance of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation ; and when at length they turned in at the lodge , her spirits were in a high flutter . 
Elizabeth 's mind was too full for conversation , but she saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view . 
Elizabeth was delighted . 
She had never seen a place for which nature had done more , or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste . 
They were all of them warm in their admiration ; and at that moment she felt , that to be mistress of Pemberley might be something ! 
They descended the hill , crossed the bridge , and drove to the door ; and , while examining the nearer aspect of the house , all her apprehensions of meeting its owner returned . 
She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken . 
On applying to see the place , they were admitted into the hall ; and Elizabeth , as they waited for the housekeeper , had leisure to wonder at her being where she was . 
The housekeeper came ; a respectable-looking , elderly woman , much less fine , and more civil , than she had any notion of finding her . 
They followed her into the dining-parlour . 
Elizabeth , after slightly surveying it , went to a window to enjoy its prospect . 
Every disposition of the ground was good ; and she looked on the whole scene , the river , the trees scattered on its banks , and the winding of the valley , as far as she could trace it , with delight . 
The rooms were lofty and handsome , and their furniture suitable to the fortune of their proprietor ; but Elizabeth saw , with admiration of his taste , that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine ; with less of splendor , and more real elegance , than the furniture of Rosings . 
`` And of this place , '' thought she , `` I might have been mistress ! 
How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day ! 
Her aunt now called her to look at a picture . 
She approached , and saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham suspended , amongst several other miniatures , over the mantle-piece . 
Her aunt asked her , smilingly , how she liked it . 
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile , but Elizabeth could not return it . 
Mrs. Reynold 's respect for Elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master . 
Elizabeth coloured , and said -- `` A little . '' 
This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham 's being among them . 
`` Except , thought Elizabeth , when she goes to Ramsgate . '' 
Elizabeth could not help saying , `` It is very much to his credit , I am sure , that you should think so . '' 
Elizabeth thought this was going pretty far ; and she listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added , `` I have never had a cross word from him in my life , and I have known him ever since he was four years old . '' 
This was praise , of all others most extraordinary , most opposite to her ideas . 
That he was not a good-tempered man , had been her firmest opinion . 
Her keenest attention was awakened ; she longed to hear more , and was grateful to her uncle for saying , `` There are very few people of whom so much can be said . 
Elizabeth almost stared at her . 
thought she . 
Elizabeth listened , wondered , doubted , and was impatient for more . 
thought Elizabeth . 
`` This fine account of him , '' whispered her aunt , as they walked , is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend . '' 
`` He is certainly a good brother , '' said Elizabeth , as she walked towards one of the windows . 
In the former were many good paintings ; but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art ; and from such as had been already visible below , she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss Darcy 's , in crayons , whose subjects were usually more interesting , and also more intelligible . 
Elizabeth walked on in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her . 
At last it arrested her -- and she beheld a striking resemblance of Mr. Darcy , with such a smile over the face , as she remembered to have sometimes seen , when he looked at her . 
She stood several minutes before the picture in earnest contemplation , and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery . 
There was certainly at this moment , in Elizabeth 's mind , a more gentle sensation towards the original , than she had ever felt in the height of their acquaintance . 
As they walked across the lawn towards the river , Elizabeth turned back to look again ; her uncle and aunt stopped also , and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building , the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road , which led behind it to the stables . 
He absolutely started , and for a moment seemed immoveable from surprise ; but shortly recovering himself , advanced towards the party , and spoke to Elizabeth , if not in terms of perfect composure , at least of perfect civility . 
She had instinctively turned away ; but , stopping on his approach , received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome . 
The others then joined her , and expressed their admiration of his figure ; but Elizabeth heard not a word , and , wholly engrossed by her own feelings , followed them in silence . 
She was overpowered by shame and vexation . 
Her coming there was the most unfortunate , the most ill-judged thing in the world ! 
It might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again ! 
why did she come ? 
She blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting . 
That he should even speak to her was amazing ! 
-- but to speak with such civility , to enquire after her family ! 
Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified , never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting . 
What a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosing 's Park , when he put his letter into her hand ! 
She knew not what to think , nor how to account for it . 
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water , and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground , or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching : but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it ; and , though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt , and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out , she distinguished no part of the scene . 
Her thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House , whichever it might be , where Mr. Darcy then was . 
She longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind ; in what manner he thought of her , and whether , in defiance of every thing , she was still dear to him . 
Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing her , she could not tell , but he certainly had not seen her with composure . 
At length , however , the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind roused her , and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself . 
Elizabeth longed to explore its windings ; but when they had crossed the bridge , and perceived their distance from the house , Mrs. Gardiner , who was not a great walker , could go no farther , and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible . 
Whilst wandering on in this slow manner , they were again surprised , and Elizabeth 's astonishment was quite equal to what it had been at first , by the sight of Mr. Darcy approaching them , and at no great distance . 
Elizabeth , however astonished , was at least more prepared for an interview than before , and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness , if he really intended to meet them . 
For a few moments , indeed , she felt that he would probably strike into some other path . 
With a glance she saw , that he had lost none of his recent civility ; and , to imitate his politeness , she began , as they met , to admire the beauty of the place ; but she had not got beyond the words `` delightful , '' and `` charming , '' when some unlucky recollections obtruded , and she fancied that praise of Pemberley from her , might be mischievously construed . 
Her colour changed , and she said no more . 
Elizabeth could not but be pleased , could not but triumph . 
It was consoling , that he should know she had some relations for whom there was no need to blush . 
She listened most attentively to all that passed between them , and gloried in every expression , every sentence of her uncle , which marked his intelligence , his taste , or his good manners . 
The conversation soon turned upon fishing , and she heard Mr. Darcy invite him , with the greatest civility to fish there as often as he chose , while he continued in the neighbourhood , offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle , and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport . 
Mrs. Gardiner , who was walking arm in arm with Elizabeth , gave her a look expressive of her wonder . 
Elizabeth said nothing , but it gratified her exceedingly ; the compliment must be all for herself . 
Her astonishment , however , was extreme ; and continually was she repeating , `` Why is he so altered ? 
It originated in Mrs. Gardiner , who , fatigued by the exercise of the morning , found Elizabeth 's arm inadequate to her support , and consequently preferred her husband 's . 
Mr. Darcy took her place by her niece , and they walked on together . 
Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow . 
Her thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley 's name had been last mentioned between them ; and if she might judge from his complexion , his mind was not very differently engaged . 
The surprise of such an application was great indeed ; it was too great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it . 
She immediately felt that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her , must be the work of her brother , and without looking farther , it was satisfactory ; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of her . 
Elizabeth was not comfortable ; that was impossible ; but she was flattered and pleased . 
His wish of introducing his sister to her , was a compliment of the highest kind . 
Mr. Darcy handed the ladies into the carriage , and when it drove off , Elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house . 
The observations of her uncle and aunt now began ; and each of them pronounced him to be infinitely superior to any thing they had expected . 
`` He is perfectly well behaved , polite , and unassuming , '' said her uncle . 
`` There is something a little stately in him to be sure , '' replied her aunt , `` but it is confined to his air , and is not unbecoming . 
His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling . '' 
`` To be sure , Lizzy , '' said her aunt , `` he is not so handsome as Wickham ; or rather he has not Wickham 's countenance , for his features are perfectly good . 
Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could ; said that she had liked him better when they met in Kent than before , and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning . 
`` But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities , '' replied her uncle . 
Elizabeth felt that they had entirely mistaken his character , but said nothing . 
Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of his behaviour to Wickham ; and therefore gave them to understand , in as guarded a manner as she could , that by what she had heard from his relations in Kent , his actions were capable of a very different construction ; and that his character was by no means so faulty , nor Wickham 's so amiable , as they had been considered in Hertfordshire . 
In confirmation of this , she related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected , without actually naming her authority , but stating it to be such as might be relied on . 
The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends ; and she could do nothing but think , and think with wonder , of Mr. Darcy 's civility , and above all , of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister . 
Elizabeth had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his sister to visit her , the very day after her reaching Pemberlay ; and was consequently resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning . 
But her conclusion was false ; for on the very morning after their own arrival at Lambton , these visitors came . 
Elizabeth immediately recognising the livery , guessed what it meant , and imparted no small degree of surprise to her relations , by acquainting them with the honour which she expected . 
Her uncle and aunt were all amazement ; and the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke , joined to the circumstance itself , and many of the circumstances of the preceding day , opened to them a new idea on the business . 
While these newly-born notions were passing in their heads , the perturbation of Elizabeth 's feelings was every moment increasing . 
She was quite amazed at her own discomposure ; but amongst other causes of disquiet , she dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in her favour ; and more than commonly anxious to please , she naturally suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her . 
She retreated from the window , fearful of being seen ; and as she walked up and down the room , endeavouring to compose herself , saw such looks of enquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt , as made every thing worse . 
With astonishment did Elizabeth see , that her new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself . 
Since her being at Lambton , she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud ; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her , that she was only exceedingly shy . 
Miss Darcy was tall , and on a larger scale than Elizabeth ; and , though little more than sixteen , her figure was formed , and her appearance womanly and graceful . 
She was less handsome than her brother , but there was sense and good humour in her face , and her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle . 
Elizabeth , who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. Darcy had been , was much relieved by discerning such different feelings . 
They had not been long together , before Darcy told her that Bingley was also coming to wait on her ; and she had barely time to express her satisfaction , and prepare for such a visitor , when Bingley 's quick step was heard on the stairs , and in a moment he entered the room . 
All Elizabeth 's anger against him had been long done away ; but , had she still felt any , it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself , on seeing her again . 
He enquired in a friendly , though general way , after her family , and looked and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done . 
Elizabeth , on her side , had much to do . 
She wanted to ascertain the feelings of each of her visitors , she wanted to compose her own , and to make herself agreeable to all ; and in the latter object , where she feared most to fail , she was most sure of success , for those to whom she endeavoured to give pleasure were prepossessed in her favour . 
Elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact ; and he afterwards took occasion to ask her , when unattended to by any of rest , whether all her sisters were at Longbourn . 
It was not often that she could turn her eyes on Mr. Darcy himself ; but , whenever she did catch a glimpse , she saw an expression of general complaisance , and in all that he said , she heard an accent so far removed from hauteur or disdain of his companions , as convinced her that the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed , however temporary its existence might prove , had at least outlived one day . 
When she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance , and courting the good opinion of people , with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a disgrace ; when she saw him thus civil , not only to herself , but to the very relations whom he had openly disdained , and recollected their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage , the difference , the change was so great , and struck so forcibly on her mind , that she could hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible . 
Never , even in the company of his dear friends at Netherfield , or his dignified relations at Rosings , had she seen him so desirous to please , so free from self-consequence , or unbending reserve as now , when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours , and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed , would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and Rosings . 
Their visitors staid with them above half an hour , and when they arose to depart , Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner , and Miss Bennet , to dinner at Pemberley , before they left the country . 
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece , desirous of knowing how she , whom the invitation most concerned , felt disposed as to its acceptance , but Elizabeth had turned away her head . 
Presuming , however , that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment , than any dislike of the proposal , and seeing in her husband , who was fond of society , a perfect willingness to accept it , she ventured to engage for her attendance , and the day after the next was fixed on . 
Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth again , having still a great deal to say to her , and many enquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends . 
Elizabeth , construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister , was pleased ; and on this account , as well as some others , found herself , when their visitors left them , capable of considering the last half hour with some satisfaction , though while it was passing , the enjoyment of it had been little . 
Eager to be alone , and fearful of enquiries or hints from her uncle and aunt , she staid with them only long enough to hear their favourable opinion of Bingley , and then hurried away to dress . 
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner 's curiosity ; it was not their wish to force her communication . 
`` As for Elizabeth , her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last ; and the evening , though as it passed it seemed long , was not long enough to determine her feelings towards one in that mansion ; and she lay awake two whole hours , endeavouring to make them out . 
She certainly did not hate him . 
No ; hatred had vanished long ago , and she had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against him , that could be so called . 
The respect created by the conviction of his valuable qualities , though at first unwillingly admitted , had for some time ceased to be repugnant to her feelings ; and it was now heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature , by the testimony so highly in his favour , and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light , which yesterday had produced . 
But above all , above respect and esteem , there was a motive within her of good will which could not be overlooked . 
-- Gratitude , not merely for having once loved her , but for loving her still well enough , to forgive all the petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him , and all the unjust accusations accompanying her rejection . 
He who , she had been persuaded , would avoid her as his greatest enemy , seemed , on this accidental meeting , most eager to preserve the acquaintance , and without any indelicate display of regard , or any peculiarity of manner , where their two selves only were concerned , was soliciting the good opinion of her friends , and bent on making her known to his sister . 
Such a change in a man of so much pride , excited not only astonishment but gratitude -- for to love , ardent love , it must be attributed ; and as such its impression on her was of a sort to be encouraged , as by no means unpleasing , though it could not be exactly defined . 
She respected , she esteemed , she was grateful to him , she felt a real interest in his welfare ; and she only wanted to know how far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself , and how far it would be for the happiness of both that she should employ the power , which her fancy told her she still possessed , of bringing on the renewal of his addresses . 
-- Elizabeth was pleased , though , when she asked herself the reason , she had very little to say in reply . 
Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley 's dislike of her had originated in jealousy , she could not help feeling how very unwelcome her appearance at Pemberley must be to her , and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady 's side , the acquaintance would now be renewed . 
It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley , a genteel , agreeable-looking woman , whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse , proved her to be more truly well bred than either of the others ; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner , with occasional help from Elizabeth , the conversation was carried on . 
Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley , and that she could not speak a word , especially to Miss Darcy , without calling her attention . 
After sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour , without hearing Miss Bingley 's voice , Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold enquiry after the health of her family . 
She answered with equal indifference and brevity , and the other said no more . 
While thus engaged , Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy , by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room ; and then , though but a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate , she began to regret that he came . 
No sooner did he appear , than Elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed ; -- a resolution the more necessary to be made , but perhaps not the more easily kept , because she saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them , and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first came into the room . 
Miss Darcy , on her brother 's entrance , exerted herself much more to talk ; and Elizabeth saw that he was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted , and forwarded , as much as possible , every attempt at conversation on either side . 
In Darcy 's presence she dared not mention Wickham 's name ; but Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts ; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moment 's distress ; but , exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack , she presently answered the question in a tolerably disengaged tone . 
While she spoke , an involuntary glance shewed her Darcy with an heightened complexion , earnestly looking at her , and his sister overcome with confusion , and unable to lift up her eyes . 
Had Miss Bingley known what pain she was then giving her beloved friend , she undoubtedly would have refrained from the hint ; but she had merely intended to discompose Elizabeth , by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom she believed her partial , to make her betray a sensibility which might injure her in Darcy 's opinion , and perhaps to remind the latter of all the follies and absurdities , by which some part of her family were connected with that corps . 
Not a syllable had ever reached her of Miss Darcy 's mediated elopement . 
To no creature had it been revealed , where secresy was possible , except to Elizabeth ; and from all Bingley 's connections her brother was particularly anxious to conceal it , from that very wish which Elizabeth had long ago attributed to him , of their becoming hereafter her own . 
He had certainly formed such a plan , and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss Bennet , it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern for the welfare of his friend . 
Elizabeth 's collected behaviour , however , soon quieted his emotion ; and as Miss Bingley , vexed and disappointed , dared not approach nearer to Wickham , Georgiana also recovered in time , though not enough to be able to speak any more . 
Her brother , whose eye she feared to meet , scarcely recollected her interest in the affair , and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth , seemed to have fixed them on her more , and more cheerfully . 
Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above-mentioned ; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage , Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth 's person , behaviour , and dress . 
Her brother 's recommendation was enough to ensure her favour : his judgment could not err , and he had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth , as to leave Georgiana without the power of finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable . 
Persuaded as Miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth , this was not the best method of recommending herself ; but angry people are not always wise ; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled , she had all the success she expected . 
He was resolutely silent however ; and , from a determination of making him speak , she continued , `` I remember , when we first knew her in Hertfordshire , how amazed we all were to find that she was a reputed beauty ; and I particularly recollect your saying one night , after they had been dining at Netherfield , ` She a beauty ! 
Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred , during their visit , as they returned , except what had particularly interested them both . 
They talked of his sister , his friends , his house , his fruit , of every thing but himself ; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of him , and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece 's beginning the subject . 
Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from Jane , on their first arrival at Lambton ; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there ; but on the third , her repining was over , and her sister justified by the receipt of two letters from her at once , on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere . 
Elizabeth was not surprised at it , as Jane had written the direction remarkably ill . 
They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in ; and her uncle and aunt , leaving her to enjoy them in quiet , set off by themselves . 
Without allowing herself time for consideration , and scarcely knowing what she felt , Elizabeth on finishing this letter , instantly seized the other , and opening it with the utmost impatience , read as follows : it had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first . 
cried Elizabeth , darting from her seat as she finished the letter , in eagerness to follow him , without losing a moment of the time so precious ; but as she reached the door , it was opened by a servant , and Mr. Darcy appeared . 
Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start , and before he could recover himself enough to speak , she , in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia 's situation , hastily exclaimed , `` I beg your pardon , but I must leave you . 
Elizabeth hesitated , but her knees trembled under her , and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them . 
Calling back the servant , therefore , she commissioned him , though in so breathless an accent as made her almost unintelligible , to fetch his master and mistress home , instantly . 
On his quitting the room , she sat down , unable to support herself , and looking so miserably ill , that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her , or to refrain from saying , in a tone of gentleness and commiseration , `` Let me call your maid . 
`` No , I thank you ; '' she replied , endeavouring to recover herself . 
She burst into tears as she alluded to it , and for a few minutes could not speak another word . 
Darcy , in wretched suspense , could only say something indistinctly of his concern , and observe her in compassionate silence . 
At length , she spoke again . 
`` When I consider , '' she added , in a yet more agitated voice , `` that I might have prevented it ! 
He seemed scarcely to hear her , and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation ; his brow contracted , his air gloomy . 
Elizabeth soon observed , and instantly understood it . 
Her power was sinking ; every thing must sink under such a proof of family weakness , such an assurance of the deepest disgrace . 
She could neither wonder nor condemn , but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom , afforded no palliation of her distress . 
It was , on the contrary , exactly calculated to make her understand her own wishes ; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved him , as now , when all love must be vain . 
But self ; though it would intrude , could not engross her . 
Lydia -- the humiliation , the misery , she was bringing on them all , soon swallowed up every private care ; and covering her face with her handkerchief , Elizabeth was soon lost to every thing else ; and , after a pause of several minutes , was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the voice of her companion , who , in a manner , which though it spoke compassion , spoke likewise restraint , said , `` I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence , nor have I any thing to plead in excuse of my stay , but real , though unavailing , concern . 
He readily assured her of his secrecy -- again expressed his sorrow for her distress , wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope , and leaving his compliments for her relations , with only one serious , parting , look , went away As he quitted the room , Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire ; and as she threw a retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance , so full of contradictions and varieties , sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance , and would formerly have rejoiced in its termination . 
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection , Elizabeth 's change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty . 
But if otherwise , if the regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or unnatural , in comparison of what is so often described as arising on a first interview with its object , and even before two words have been exchanged , nothing can be said in her defence , except that she had given somewhat of a trial to the latter method , in her partiality for Wickham , and that its ill success might perhaps authorise her to seek the other less interesting mode of attachment . 
Be that as it may , she saw him go with regret ; and in this early example of what Lydia 's infamy must produce , found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched business . 
-- Elizabeth , though expecting no less , thanked him with tears of gratitude ; and all three being actuated by one spirit , every thing relating to their journey was speedily settled . 
Had Elizabeth been at leisure to be idle , she would have remained certain that all employment was impossible to one so wretched as herself ; but she had her share of business as well as her aunt , and amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends in Lambton , with false excuses for their sudden departure . 
An hour , however , saw the whole completed ; and Mr. Gardiner meanwhile having settled his account at the inn , nothing remained to be done but to go ; and Elizabeth , after all the misery of the morning , found herself , in a shorter space of time than she could have supposed , seated in the carriage , and on the road to Longbourn . 
`` I have been thinking it over again , Elizabeth , '' said her uncle , as they drove from the town ; `` and really , upon serious consideration , I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does of the matter . 
cried Elizabeth , brightening up for a moment . 
`` It does seem , and it is most shocking indeed , '' replied Elizabeth , with tears in her eyes , `` that a sister 's sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt . 
`` I do , indeed , '' replied Elizabeth , colouring . 
From Elizabeth 's thoughts it was never absent . 
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish , self reproach , she could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness . 
It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied by long expectations . 
Elizabeth jumped out ; and , after giving each of them an hasty kiss , hurried into the vestibule , where Jane , who came running down stairs from her mother 's apartment , immediately met her . 
Elizabeth , as she affectionately embraced her , whilst tears filled the eyes of both , lost not a moment in asking whether any thing had been heard of the fugitives . 
cried Elizabeth . 
Her sister , however , assured her , of her being perfectly well ; and their conversation , which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were engaged with their children , was now put an end to , by the approach of the whole party . 
When they were all in the drawing room , the questions which Elizabeth had already asked , were of course repeated by the others , and they soon found that Jane had no intelligence to give . 
As for Mary , she was mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth with a countenance of grave reflection , soon after they were seated at table , `` This is a most unfortunate affair ; and will probably be much talked of . 
Then , perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying , she added , `` Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia , we may draw from it this useful lesson ; that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable -- that one false step involves her in endless ruin -- that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful , -- and that she can not be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex . '' 
Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement , but was too much oppressed to make any reply . 
In the afternoon , the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for half an hour by themselves ; and Elizabeth instantly availed herself of the opportunity of making many enquiries , which Jane was equally eager to satisfy . 
After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event , which Elizabeth considered as all but certain , and Miss Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible ; the former continued the subject , by saying , `` But tell me all and every thing about it , which I have not already heard . 
`` Perhaps it would have been better ; '' replied her sister . 
Jane then took it from her pocketbook , and gave it to Elizabeth . 
cried Elizabeth when she had finished it . 
Jane , '' cried Elizabeth , `` was there a servant belonging to it , who did not know the whole story before the end of the day ? '' 
`` She had better have stayed at home , '' cried Elizabeth ; `` perhaps she meant well , but , under such a misfortune as this , one can not see too little of one 's neighbours . 
His principal object must be , to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from ' Clapham . 
Elizabeth , though she did not credit above half of what was said , believed enough to make her former assurance of her sister 's ruin still more certain ; and even Jane , who believed still less of it , became almost hopeless , more especially as the time was now come , when if they had gone to Scotland , which she had never before entirely despaired of , they must in all probability have gained some news of them . 
Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for her authority proceeded ; but it was not in her power to give any information of so satisfactory a nature , as the compliment deserved . 
She had never heard of his having had any relations , except a father and mother , both of whom had been dead many years . 
But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner , a letter arrived for their father , from a different quarter , from Mr. Collins ; which , as Jane had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence , she accordingly read ; and Elizabeth , who knew what curiosities his letters always were , looked over her , and read it likewise . 
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend , that had attended her from that part of the world . 
Elizabeth had received none since her return , that could come from Pemberley . 
The present unhappy state of the family , rendered any other excuse for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary ; nothing , therefore , could be fairly conjectured from that , though Elizabeth , who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings , was perfectly aware , that , had she known nothing of Darcy , she could have borne the dread of Lydia 's infamy somewhat better . 
It was not till the afternoon , when he joined them at tea , that Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject ; and then , on her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured , he replied , `` Say , nothing of that . 
`` You must not be too severe upon yourself , '' replied Elizabeth . 
`` She is happy , then , '' said her father , drily ; `` and her residence there will probably be of some duration . '' 
They were interrupted by Miss Bennet , who came to fetch her mother 's tea . 
Two days after Mr. Bennet 's return , as Jane and Elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house , they saw the housekeeper coming towards them , and , concluding that she came to call them to their mother , went forward to meet her ; but , instead of the expected summons , when they approached her , she said to Miss Bennet , `` I beg your pardon , madam , for interrupting you , but I was in hopes you might have got some good news from town , so I took the liberty of coming to ask . '' 
Jane , who was not so light , nor so much in the habit of running as Elizabeth , soon lagged behind , while her sister , panting for breath , came up with him , and eagerly cried out , `` Oh , Papa , what news ? 
Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand . 
Elizabeth read on ; `` I have seen them both . 
cried Elizabeth , when she had finished . 
`` Wickham is not so undeserving , then , as we have thought him ; '' said her sister . 
said Elizabeth . 
Most earnestly did she then intreat him to lose no more time before he wrote . 
my dear father , '' she cried , `` come back , and write immediately . 
said Elizabeth , `` but the terms , I suppose , must be complied with . '' 
`` That is very true , '' said Elizabeth ; `` though it had not occurred to me before . 
`` No , '' said her father , `` Wickham 's a fool , if he takes her with a farthing less than ten thousand pounds . 
cried Elizabeth , as soon as they were by themselves , `` How strange this is ! 
`` If we are ever able to learn what Wickham 's debts have been , '' said Elizabeth , `` and how much is settled on his side on our sister , we shall exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them , because Wickham has not sixpence of his own . 
`` Their conduct has been such , '' replied Elizabeth , `` as neither you , nor I , nor any body , can ever forget . 
They went to the library , therefore , and asked their father , whether he would not wish them to make it known to her . 
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing table , and they went up stairs together . 
Elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest , and then , sick of this folly , took refuge in her own room , that she might think with freedom . 
Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had , from the distress of the moment , been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister ; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement , they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning , from all those who were not immediately on the spot . 
She had no fear of its spreading farther , through his means . 
There were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended ; but at the same time , there was no one , whose knowledge of a sister 's frailty would have mortified her so much . 
But Jane and Elizabeth , who agreed in wishing , for the sake of their sister 's feelings and consequence , that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents , urged him so earnestly , yet so rationally and so mildly , to receive her and her husband at Longbourn , as soon as they were married , that he was prevailed on to think as they thought , and act as they wished . 
Elizabeth was surprised , however , that Wickham should consent to such a scheme , and , had she consulted only her own inclination , any meeting with him would have been the last object of her wishes . 
Their sister 's wedding day arrived ; aud Jane and Elizabeth felt for her probably more than she felt for herself . 
Elizabeth was digusted , and even Miss Bennet was shocked . 
Elizabeth had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance ; but she sat down , resolving , within herself , to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man . 
She blushed , and Jane blushed ; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion , suffered no variation of colour . 
The bride and her mother could neither of them talk fast enough ; and Wickham , who happened to sit near Elizabeth , began enquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood , with a good humoured ease , which she felt very unable to equal in her replies . 
Elizabeth looked expressively at Lydia ; but she , who never heard nor saw any thing of which she chose to be insensible , gaily continued , `` Oh ! 
Elizabeth could bear it no longer . 
She got up , and ran out of the room ; and returned no more , till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining parlour . 
She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia , with anxious parade , walk up to her mother 's right hand , and hear her say to her eldest sister , `` Ah ! 
`` I thank you for my share of the favour , '' said Elizabeth ; `` but I do not particularly like your way of getting husbands . '' 
Wickham 's affection for Lydia , was just what Elizabeth had expected to find it ; not equal to Lydia 's for him . 
One morning , soon after their arrival , as she was sitting with her two elder sisters , she said to Elizabeth , `` Lizzy , I never gave you an account of my wedding , I believe . 
`` No really , '' replied Elizabeth ; `` I think there can not be too little said on the subject . '' 
repeated Elizabeth , in utter amazement . 
certainly , '' said Elizabeth , though burning with curiosity ; `` we will ask you no questions . '' 
On such encouragement to ask , Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power , by running away . 
Mr. Darcy had been at her sister 's wedding . 
Conjectures as to the meaning of it , rapid and wild , hurried into her brain ; but she was satisfied with none . 
Those that best pleased her , as placing his conduct in the noblest light , seemed most improbable . 
She could not bear such suspense ; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper , wrote a short letter to her aunt , to request an explanation of what Lydia had dropt , if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been intended . 
Jane 's delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to Elizabeth privately of what Lydia had let fall ; Elizabeth was glad of it ; -- till it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any satisfaction , she had rather be without a confidante . 
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter , as soon as she possibly could . 
She was no sooner in possession of it , than hurrying into the little copse , where she was least likely to be interrupted , she sat down on one of the benches , and prepared to be happy ; for the length of the letter convinced her , that it did not contain a denial . 
I was sometimes quite provoked , but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane , and for their sakes had patience with her . 
The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits , in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share . 
The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward her sister 's match , which she had feared to encourage , as an exertion of goodness too great to be probable , and at the same time dreaded to be just , from the pain of obligation , were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true ! 
Elizabeth hoped she had silenced him ; but he soon afterwards said , `` I was surprised to see Daroy in town last month . 
`` Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh , '' said Elizabeth . 
They were now almost at the door of the house , for she had walked fast to get rid of him ; and unwilling , for her sister 's sake , to provoke him , she only said in reply , with a good-humoured smile , `` Come , Mr. Wickham , we are brother and sister , you know . 
She held out her hand ; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry , though he hardly knew how to look , and they entered the house . 
Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation , that he never again distressed himself , or provoked his dear sister Elizabeth , by introducing the subject of it ; and she was pleased to find that she had said enough to keep him quiet . 
`` This is the consequence you see , Madam , of marrying a daughter , '' said Elizabeth . 
But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into , was shortly relieved , and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope , by an article of news , which then began to be in circulation . 
Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming , without changing colour . 
It was many months since she had mentioned his name to Elizabeth ; but now , as soon as they were alone together , she said , `` I saw you look at me to day , Lizzy , when my aunt told us of the present reort ; and I know I appeared distressed . 
Elizabeth did not know what to make of it . 
Had she not seen him in Derbyshire , she might have supposed him capable of coming there , with no other view than what was acknowledged ; but she still thought him partial to Jane , and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming there with his friend 's permission , or being bold enough to come without it . 
In spite of what her sister declared , and realy believed to be her feelings , in the expectation of his arrival , Elizabeth cold easily perceive that her spirits were affected by it . 
They were more disturbed , more unequal , than she had often seen them . 
`` I wish I could say any thing to comfort you , '' replied Elizabeth ; `` but it is wholly out of my power . 
Jane resolutely kept her palce at the table ; but Elizabeth , to satisfy her mother , went to the window -- she looked , -- she was Mr. Darcy with him , and sat down again by her sister . 
Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern . 
But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be suspected by Jane , to whom she had never yet had courage to shew Mrs. Gardiner 's letter , or to relate her own change of sentiment towards him . 
Jane looked a little paler than usual , but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected . 
On the gentlemen 's appearing , her colour increased ; yet she received them with tolerable ease , and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment , or any unnecessary complaisance . 
Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow , and sat down again to her work , with an eagerness which it did not often command . 
She had ventured only one glance at Darcy . 
He looked serious as usual ; and she thought , more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire , than as she had seen him at Pemberley . 
But , perhaps he could not in her mother 's presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt . 
Bingley , she had likewise seen for an instant , and in that short period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed . 
Elizabeth particularly , who knew that her mother owed to the latter the preservation of her favourite daughter from immediable infamy , was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied . 
Darcy , after enquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did , a question which she could not answer without confusion said scarcely any thing . 
Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes . 
How Mr. Darcy looked , therefore , she could not tell . 
`` It is a delightful thing , to be sure , to have a daughter well married , '' continued her mother ; `` but at the same time , Mr. Bingley , it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me . 
Elizabeth , who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy , was in such misery of shame , that she could hardly keep her seat . 
It drew from her , however , the exertion of speaking , which nothing else had so effectually done before ; and she asked Bingley , whether he meant to make any stay in the country at present . 
`` When you have killed all your own birds , Mr. Bingley , '' said her mother , `` I beg you will come here , and shoot as many as you please , on Mr. Bennet 's manor . 
Elizabeth 's misery increased , at such unnecessary , such officious attention ! 
Were the same fair propect to arise at present , as had flattered them a year ago , every thing , she was persuaded , would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion . 
At that instant she felt , that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends , for moments of such painful confusion . 
As soon as they were gone , Elizabeth walked out to recover her spirits ; or in other words , to dwell without interruption on those subjects that must deaden them more . 
Mr. Darcy 's behaviour astonished and vexed her . 
`` Why , if he came only to be silent , grave , and indifferent , '' said she , `` did he come at all ? '' 
She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure . 
Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister , who joined her with a cheerful look , which shewed her better satisfied with their visitors , than Elizabeth . 
`` Now , '' said she , `` that this first meeting is over , I feel perfectly easy . 
`` Yes , very indifferent indeed , '' said Elizabeth , laughingly . 
When they repaired to the dining-room , Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place , which , in all their former parties , had belonged to him , by her sister . 
Her prudent mother , occupied by the same ideas , forbore to invite him to sit by herself . 
Elizabeth , with a triumphant sensation , looked towards his friend . 
He bore it with noble indifference , and she would have imagined that Bingley had received his sanction to be happy , had she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy , with an expression of half-laughing alarm . 
His behaviour to her sister was such , during dinner time , as shewed an admiration of her , which , though more guarded than formerly , persuaded Elizabeth , that if left wholly to himself , Jane 's happiness , and his own , would be speedily secured . 
Though she dared not depend upon the consequence , she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour . 
It gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast ; for she was in no cheerful humour . 
Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her , as the table could divide them . 
He was on one side of her mother . 
She knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either , or make either appear to advantage . 
She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse , but she could see how seldom they spoke to each other , and how formal and cold was their manner , whenever they did . 
Her mother 's ungraciousness , made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth 's mind ; and she would , at times , have given any thing to be privileged to tell him , that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family . 
She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of bringing them together ; that the whole of the visit would not pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation , than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance . 
Anxious and uneasy , the period which passed in the drawing-room , before the gentlemen came , was wearisome and dull to a degree , that almost made her uncivil . 
She looked forward to their entrance , as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend . 
`` If he does not come to me , then , '' said she , `` I shall give him up for ever . '' 
The gentlemen came ; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes ; but , alas ! 
the ladies had crowded round the table , where Miss Bennet was making tea , and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee , in so close a confederacy , that there was not a single vacancy near her , which would admit of a chair . 
And on the gentlemen 's approaching , one of the girls moved closer to her than ever , and said , in a whisper . 
She followed him with her eyes , envied every one to whom he spoke , had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee ; and then was enraged against herself for being so silly ! 
She was a little revived , however , by his bringing back his coffee cup himself ; and she seized the opportunity of saying , `` Is your sister at Pemberley still ? '' 
She could think of nothing more to say ; but if he wished to converse with her , he might have better success . 
He stood by her , however , for some minutes , in silence ; and , at last , on the young lady 's whispering to Elizabeth again , he walked away . 
When the tea-things were removed , and the card tables placed , the ladies all rose , and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him , when all her views were overthrown , by seeing him fall a victim to her mother 's rapacity for whist players , and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party . 
She now lost every expectation of pleasure . 
They were confined for the evening at different tables , and she had nothing to hope , but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side of the room , as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself . 
`` It has been a very agreeable day , '' said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth . 
Elizabeth smiled . 
`` You are very cruel , '' said her sister , `` you will not let me smile , and are provoking me to it every moment . '' 
Here , Sarah , come to Miss Bennet this moment , and help her on with her gown . 
Two obstacles of the five being thus removed , Mrs Bennet sat looking and winking at Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time , without making any impression on them . 
Elizabeth would not observe her ; and when at last Kitty did , she very innocently said , `` What is the matter mamma . 
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth , which spoke her distress at such premeditation , and her intreaty that she would not give into it . 
Elizabeth was forced to go . 
`` We may as well leave them by themselves you know ; '' said her mother as soon as she was in the hall . 
Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother , but remained quietly in the hall , till she and Kitty were out of sight , then returned into the drawing room . '' 
Not a word passed between the sisters concerning Bingley ; but Elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded , unless Mr. Darcy returned within the stated time . 
Seriously , however , she felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman 's concurrence . 
Elizabeth , who had a letter to write , went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea ; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards , she could not be wanted to counteract her mother 's schemes . 
But on returning to the drawing room , when her letter was finished , she saw , to her infinite surprise , there was reason to fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her . 
On opening the door , she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth , as if engaged in earnest conversation ; and had this led to no suspicion , the faces of both as they hastily turned round , and moved away from each other , would have told it all . 
Their situation was awkward enough ; but her 's she thought was still worse . 
Not a syllable was uttered by either ; and Elizabeth was on the point of going away again , when Bingley , who as well as the others had sat down , suddenly rose , and whispering a few words to her sister , ran out of the room . 
Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth , where confidence would give pleasure ; and instantly embracing her , acknowledged , with the liveliest emotion , that she was the happiest creature in the world . 
she added , `` by far too much . 
Elizabeth 's congratulations were given with a sincerity , a warmth , a delight , which words could but poorly express . 
`` I must go instantly to my mother ; '' she cried . 
She then hastened away to her mother , who had purposely broken up the card party , and was sitting up stairs with Kitty . 
Elizabeth , who was left by herself , now smiled at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was finally settled , that had given them so many previous months of suspense and vexation . 
`` And this , '' said she , `` is the end of all his friend 's anxious circumspection ! 
In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley , whose conference with her father had been short and to the purpose . 
He then shut the door , and coming up to her , claimed the good wishes and affection of a sister . 
Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship . 
They shook hands with great cordiality ; and then till her sister came down , she had to listen to all he had to say , of his own happiness , and of Jane 's perfections ; and in spite of his being a lover , Elizabeth really believed all his expectations of felicity , to be rationally founded , because they had for basis the excellent understanding , and super-excellent disposition of Jane , and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and himself . 
It was an evening of no common delight to them all ; the satisfaction of Miss Bennet 's mind gave a glow of such sweet animation to her face , as made her look handsomer than ever . 
Kitty simpered and smiled , and hoped her turn was coming soon . 
Elizabeth had now but little time for conversation with her sister ; for while he was present , Jane had no attention to bestow on any one else ; but she found herself considerably useful to both of them , in those hours of separation that must sometimes occur . 
In the absence of Jane , he always attached himself to Elizabeth , for the pleasure of talking of her ; and when Bingley was gone , Jane constantly sought the same means of relief . 
`` I suspected as much , '' replied Elizabeth . 
`` That is the most unforgiving speech , '' said Elizabeth , `` that I ever heard you utter . 
Elizabeth was pleased to find , that he had not betrayed the interference of his friends , for , though Jane had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world , she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice her against him . 
As it was certain , however , that somebody was coming , Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion , and walk away with him into the shrubbery . 
They were of course all intending to be surprised ; but their astonishment was beyond their expectation ; and on the part of Mrs. Bennet and Kitty , though she was perfectly unknown to them , even inferior to what Elizabeth felt . 
She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious , made no other reply to Elizabeth 's salutation , than a slight inclination of the head , and sat down without saying a word . 
Elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother , on her ladyship 's entrance , though no request of introduction had been made . 
After sitting for a moment in silence , she said very stiffly to Elizabeth , `` I hope your are well , Miss Bennet . 
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was . 
Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from Charlotte , as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling . 
But no letter appeared , and she was completely puzzled . 
Mrs. Bennet , with great civility , begged her ladyship to take some refreshment ; but Lady Catherine very resolutely , and not very politely , declined eating any thing ; and then rising up , said to Elizabeth , `` Miss Bennet , there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one side of your lawn . 
`` Go , my dear , '' cried her mother , `` and shew her ladyship about the different walks . 
I think she will be pleased with the hermitage . '' 
Elizabeth obeyed , and running into her own room for her parasol , attended her noble guest down stairs . 
Her carriage remained at the door , and Elizabeth saw that her waiting-woman was in it . 
They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse ; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for conversation with a woman , who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable . 
`` How could I ever think her like her nephew ? '' 
said she , as she looked in her face . 
As soon as they entered the copse , Lady Catherine began in the following manner : -- `` You can be at no loss , Miss Bennet , to understand the reason of my journey hither . 
Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment . 
`` Miss Bennet , '' replied her ladyship , in an angry tone , `` you ought to know , that I am not to be trifled with . 
I was told , that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married , but that you , that Miss Elizabeth Bennet , would , in all likelihood , be soon afterwards united to my nephew , my own nephew , Mr. Darcy . 
`` If you believed it impossible to be true , '' said Elizabeth , colouring with astonishment and disdain , `` I wonder you took the trouble of coming so far . 
`` Your coming to Longbourn , to see me and my family , '' said Elizabeth , coolly , `` will be rather a confirmation of it ; if , indeed , such a report is in existence . '' 
Miss Bennet , I insist on being satisfied . 
`` Miss Bennet , do you know who I am ? 
Yes , Miss Bennet , interest ; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends , if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all . 
`` These are heavy misfortunes , '' replied Elizabeth . 
You are to understand , Miss Bennet , that I came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose ; nor will I be dissuaded from it . 
`` Whatever my connections may be , '' said Elizabeth , `` if your nephew does not object to them , they can be nothing to you . '' 
Though Elizabeth would not , for the mere purpose of obliging Lady Catherine , have answered this question ; she could not but say , after a moment 's deliberation , `` I am not . '' 
`` Miss Bennet , I am shocked and astonished . 
`` Neither duty , nor honour , nor gratitude , '' replied Elizabeth , `` have any possible claim on me , in the present instance . 
Do not imagine , Miss Bennet , that your ambition will ever be gratified . 
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on , till they were at the door of the carriage , when turning hastily round , she added , `` I take no leave of you , Miss Bennet . 
Elizabeth made no answer ; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house , walked quietly into it herself . 
She heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs . 
Her mother impatiently met her at the door of the dressing room , to ask why Lady Catherine would not come in again and rest herself . 
Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here ; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible . 
The discomposure of spirits , which this extraordinary visit threw Elizabeth into , could not be easily overcome ; nor could she for many hours , learn to think of it less than incessantly . 
but from what the report of their engagement could originate , Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine ; till she recollected that his being the intimate friend of Bingley , and her being the sister of Jane , was enough , at a time when the expectation of one wedding , made every body eager for another , to supply the idea . 
She had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together . 
And her neighbours at Lucas lodge , therefore , -LRB- for through their communication with the Collinses , the report she concluded had reached lady Catherine -RRB- had only set that down , as almost certain and immediate , which she had looked forward to as possible , at some future time . 
From what she had said of her resolution to prevent their marriage , it occurred to Elizabeth that she must meditate an application to her nephew ; and how he might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with her , she dared not pronounce . 
She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt , or his dependence on her judgment , but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her ladyship than she could do ; and it was certain , that in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with one , whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own , his aunt would address him on his weakest side . 
With his notions of dignity , he would probably feel that the arguments , which to Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous , contained much good sense and solid reasoning . 
The surprise of the rest of the family , on hearing who their visitor had been , was very great ; but they obligingly satisfied it , with the same kind of supposition , which had appeased Mrs. Bennet 's curiosity ; and Elizabeth was spared from much teazing on the subject . 
The next morning , as she was going down stairs , she was met by her father , who came out of his library with a letter in his hand . 
She followed him thither ; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her , was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held . 
It suddenly struck her that it might be from lady Catherine ; and she anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations . 
The colour now rushed into Elizabeth 's cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew , instead of the aunt ; and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained himself at all , or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to herself ; when her father continued , `` You look conscious . 
Your daughter Elizabeth , it is presumed , will not long bear the name of Bennet , after her elder sister had resigned , and the chosen partner of her fate , may be reasonably looked up to , as one of the most illustrious personages in this land . '' 
Yet in spite of all these temptations , let me warn my cousin Elizabeth , and yourself , of what evils you may incur , by a precipitate closure with this gentleman 's proposals , which , of course , you will be inclined to take immediate advantage of . '' 
Elizabeth tried to join in her father 's pleasantry , but could only force one most reluctant smile . 
Never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to her . 
cried Elizabeth , `` I am excessively diverted . 
Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not . 
It was necessary to laugh , when she would rather have cried . 
Her father had most cruelly mortified her , by what he said of Mr. Darcy 's indifference , and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration , or fear that perhaps , instead of his seeing too little , she might have fancied too much . 
Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend , as Elizabeth half expected Mr. Bingley to do , he was able to bring Darcy with him to Longbourn before many days had passed after Lady Catherine 's visit . 
They lagged behind , while Elizabeth , Kitty , and Darcy , were to entertain each other . 
Very little was said by either ; Kitty was too much afraid of him to talk ; Elizabeth was secretly forming a desperate resolution ; and perhaps he might be doing the same . 
They walked towards the Lucases , because Kitty wished to call upon Maria ; and as Elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a general concern , when Kitty left them , she went boldly on with him alone . 
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word . 
After a short pause , her companion added , `` You are too generous to trifle with me . 
Elizabeth feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation , now forced herself to speak ; and immediately , though not very fluently , gave him to understand , that her sentiments had undergone so material a change , since the period to which he alluded , as to make her receive with gratitude and pleasure , his present assurances . 
Had Elizabeth been able to encounter his eye , she might have seen how well the expression of heart-felt delight , diffused over his face , became him ; but , though she could not look , she could listen , and he told her of feelings , which , in proving of what importance she was to him , made his affection every moment more valuable . 
She soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt , who did call on him in her return through London , and there relate her journey to Longbourn , its motive , and the substance of her conversation with Elizabeth ; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter , which , in her ladyship 's apprehension , peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance , in the belief that such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from her nephew , which she had refused to give . 
Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied , `` Yes , you know enough of my frankness to believe me capable of that . 
`` We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening , '' said Elizabeth . 
She explained what its effect on her had been , and how gradually all her former prejudices had been removed . 
Such I was , from eight to eight and twenty ; and such I might still have been but for you , dearest , loveliest Elizabeth ! 
He then told her of Georgiana 's delight in her acquaintance , and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption ; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption , she soon learnt that his resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister , had been formed before he quitted the inn , and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there , had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend . 
She expressed her gratitude again , but it was too painful a subject to each , to be dwelt on farther . 
said Elizabeth . 
And though he exclaimed at the term , she found that it had been pretty much the case . 
Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his friend . 
`` Did you speak from your own observation , '' said she , `` when you told him that my sister loved him , or merely from my information last spring ? '' 
Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful friend ; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable ; but she checked herself . 
She remembered that he had yet to learn to be laught at , and it was rather too early to begin . 
was a question which Elizabeth received from Jane as soon as she entered the room , and from all the others when they sat down to table . 
She had only to say in reply , that they had wandered about , till she was beyond her own knowledge . 
She coloured as she spoke ; but neither that , nor any thing else , awakened a suspicion of the truth . 
Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth ; and Elizabeth , agitated and confused , rather knew that she was happy , than felt herself to be so ; for , besides the immediate embarrassment , there were other evils before her . 
She anticipated what would be felt in the family when her situation became known ; she was aware that no one liked him but Jane ; and even feared that with the others it was a dislike which not all his fortune and consequence might do away . 
Though suspicion was very far from Miss Bennet 's general habits , she was absolutely incredulous here . 
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement . 
Elizabeth again , and more seriously assured her of its truth . 
When convinced on that article , Miss Bennet had nothing farther to wish . 
`` Now I am quite happy , '' said she , `` for you will be as happy as myself . 
`` Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy . 
She had been unwilling to mention Bingley ; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made her equally avoid the name of his friend . 
But now she would no longer conceal from her , his share in Lydia 's marriage . 
cried Mrs. Bennet , as she stood at a window the next morning , `` if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley ! 
Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal ; yet was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an epithet . 
As soon as they entered , Bingley looked at her so expressively , and shook hands with such warmth , as left no doubt of his good information ; and he soon afterwards said aloud , `` Mr. Bennet , have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again to-day . '' 
Darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the Mount , and Elizabeth silently consented . 
As she went up stairs to get ready , Mrs. Bennet followed her , saying , `` I am quite sorry , Lizzy , that you should be forced to have that disagreeable man all to yourself . 
Elizabeth reserved to herself the application for her mother 's . 
She could not determine how her mother would take it ; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man . 
But whether she were violently set against the match , or violently delighted with it , it was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her sense ; and she coul 'd no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the first raptures of her joy , than the first vehemence of her disapprobation . 
In the evening , soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library , she saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him , and her agitation on seeing it was extreme . 
She did not fear her father 's opposition , but he was going to be made unhappy , and that it should be through her means , that she , his favourite child , should be distressing him by her choice , should be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her , was a wretched reflection , and she sat in misery till Mr. Darcy appeared again , when , looking at him , she was a little relieved by his smile . 
In a few minutes he approached the table where she was sitting with Kitty ; and , while pretending to admire her work , said in a whisper , `` Go to your father , he wants you in the library . '' 
She was gone directly . 
Her father was walking about the room , looking grave and anxious . 
How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more reasonable , her expressions more moderate ! 
It would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give ; but they were now necessary , and she assured him with some confusion , of her attachment to Mr. Darcy . 
`` Have you any other objection , '' said Elizabeth , `` than your belief of my indifference ? '' 
`` I do , I do like him , '' she replied , with tears in her eyes , `` I love him . 
`` Lizzy , '' said her father , `` I have given him my consent . 
`` Elizabeth , still more affected , was earnest and solemn in her reply ; and at length , by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the object of her choice , by explaining the gradual change which her estimation of him had undergone , relating her absolute certainty that his affection was not the work of a day , but had stood the test of many months suspense , and enumerating with energy all his good qualities , she did conquer her father 's incredulity , and reconcile him to the match . 
`` Well , my dear , '' said he , when she ceased speaking , `` I have no more to say . 
To complete the favourable impression , she then told him what Mr. Darcy had voluntarily done for Lydia . 
Elizabeth 's mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight ; and , after half an hour 's quiet reflection in her own room , she was able to join the others with tolerable composure . 
When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night , she followed her , and made the important communication . 
This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted : and Elizabeth , rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself , soon went away . 
But before she had been three minutes in her own room , her mother followed her . 
`` My dearest child , '' she cried , `` I can think of nothing else ! 
This was a sad omen of what her mother 's behaviour to the gentleman himself might be ; and Elizabeth found , that though in the certain possession of his warmest affection , and secure of her relations ' consent , there was still something to be wished for . 
But the morrow passed off much better than she expected ; for Mrs. Bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended son-in-law , that she ventured not to speak to him , unless it was in her power to offer him any attention , or mark her deference for his opinion . 
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get acquainted with him ; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem . 
Elizabeth 's spirits soon rising to playfulness again , she wanted Mr. Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her . 
said she . 
`` I am more likely to want time than courage , Elizabeth . 
From an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with Mr. Darcy had been over-rated , Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs. Gardiner 's long letter , but now , having that to communicate which she knew would be most welcome , she was almost ashamed to find , that her uncle and aunt had already lost three days of happiness , and immediately wrote as follows : `` I would have thanked you before , my dear aunt , as I ought to have done , for your long , kind , satisfactory , detail of particulars ; but to say the truth , I was too cross to write . 
Elizabeth will soon be the wife of Mr Darcy . 
Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins , or any congratulations to Elizabeth , from his wife , the Longbourn family heard that the Collinses were come themselves to Lucas lodge . 
At such a moment , the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth , though in the course of their meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought , when she saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband . 
Elizabeth did all she could , to shield him from the frequent notice of either , and was ever anxious to keep him to herself , and to those of her family with whom he might converse without mortification ; and though the uncomfortable feelings arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of its pleasure , it added to the hope of the future ; and she looked forward with delight to the time when they should be removed from society so little pleasing to either , to all the comfort and elegance of their family party at Pemberley . 
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters . 
The darling wish of his sisters was then gratified ; he bought an estate in a neighbouring county to Derbyshire , and Jane and Elizabeth , in addition to every other source of happiness , were within thirty miles of each other . 
He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her ; and in spite of every thing , was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune . 
The congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on her marriage , explained to her that , by his wife at least , if not by himself , such a hope was cherished . 
`` Your 's , & c. '' As it happened that Elizabeth had much rather not ; she endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every intreaty and expectation of the kind . 
Such relief , however , as it was in her power to afford , by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expences , she frequently sent them . 
It had always been evident to her that such an income as theirs , under the direction of two persons so extravagant in their wants , and heedless of the future , must be very insufficient to their support ; and whenever they changed their quarters , either Jane or herself were sure of being applied to , for some little assistance towards discharging their bills . 
Though Darcy could never receive him at Pemberley , yet , for Elizabeth 's sake , he assisted him farther in his profession . 
Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy 's marriage ; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley , she dropt all her resentment ; was fonder than ever of Georgiana , almost as attentive to Darcy as heretofore , and paid off every arrear of civility to Elizabeth . 
Georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth ; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm , at her lively , sportive , manner of talking to her brother . 
He , who had always inspired in herself a respect which almost overcame her affection , she now saw the object of open pleasantry . 
Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way . 
By Elizabeth 's instructions she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband , which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself . 
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew ; and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character , in her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement , she sent him language so very abusive , especially of Elizabeth , that for some time all intercourse was at an end . 
But at length , by Elizabeth 's persuasion , he was prevailed on to overlook the offence , and seek a reconciliation ; and , after a little farther resistance on the part of his aunt , her resentment gave way , either to her affection for him , or her curiosity to see how his wife conducted herself ; and she condescended to wait on them at Pemberley , in spite of that pollution which its woods had received , not merely from the presence of such a mistress , but the visits of her uncle and aunt from the city . 
Darcy , as well as Elizabeth , really loved them ; and they were both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who , by bringing her into Derbyshire , had been the means of uniting them . 
