The name of the stranger was Samuel Dale . 
He had been commissioned that morning to return home a crowbar , which Mrs. Whiteflock had borrowed of her neighbor , and as he came up the door-yard path , with the bar on his shoulder , felt suddenly the blood stand still and freeze in his veins . 
He comprehended at a glance the whole situation , and was master of it . 
Sliding the iron bar from his shoulder to the ground , and slipping his feet from out their stiff shoes , he came with the stealth of a leopard , and seizing the reptile by the tail , gave it one wild whirl , ending with a jerk so violent and sharp , as to snap off the head , and send it half across the door-yard . 
So much to say about Samuel Dale ! 
If her mother could only see him ! 
if she could only hear him sing `` The day is a-wasting '' to a real camp-meeting tune ! 
Her hair she dressed with careful attention , not that she expected to see Samuel Dale again that day , not at all . 
And yet the careful dressing was for him . 
Could Samuel but have seen her thus ! 
Margaret was at the gate in a moment , but she no sooner saw her mother sitting straight and formal in her chair , her long veil drifting over her shoulder , and her shawl of black silk pinned precisely across her bosom , than Samuel receded somewhat ; but when , without smiling or slackening the rein , she drove into the yard , and down the gravelled way , and Margaret perceived a new umbrella , with an ivory stick and a border of crimson , together with a willow work-basket , embellished with streaks of yellow and green , beside her in the cart , her faltering courage almost misgave her . 
Margaret hung her head ; `` Nothing much , '' she answered , and then reducing the whole affair to its lowest possibility , making little of the copperheads , and almost nothing of Samuel Dale , she explained ; and this , after all , was the way she told her great news . 
The pictures , the dainty curtains , all the pretty garniture seemed to her like the memory of a dream ; and as she went silently about her household cares , she began to understand , she thought , what Samuel meant by the shadows he had spoken of in the morning . 
Margaret shrugged her shoulder ; she was probably thinking of Samuel Dale , who was far enough from being a bishop 's son . 
That night , as she slept , it seemed to her that Samuel Dale put a ring on her finger , and that in shaking hands with Mr. Lightwait , the bishop 's son , who was come to be their pastor , it slipped off , and was lost . 
Passing through the house instead of around it , as her mother had done , she was already exchanging greetings with Samuel Dale , when her indignant ladyship bore down upon them , her broad cap-strings flapping about her shoulders like sails . 
Samuel Dale was not a person to be easily flurried , and he now possessed his soul in patience . 
Removing his hat , he leaned on his crow-bar , and explained . 
He was come to repair the damage incidentally done the door-steps in his encounter with the imps of the old enemy , about which she had no doubt heard . 
He was sorry for the mischief , but hoped to make amends . 
`` Not at all , '' answered Samuel ; `` not obleeged to me in the least ; it was owing to your little Daisy ; she behaved like an angel . '' 
Samuel by this time had slipped a tow apron over his head , and producing a bucket of mortar and a trowel , had set to work , cutting smooth the rough edges of the stones , and cementing them together as equably as though the distrustful eyes upon him were the friendliest in the world . 
`` No , ma'am , '' he answered , `` I was n't brought up to no trade , but I can turn my hand to a good many things , after a fashion . '' 
Samuel exclaimed , throwing down his trowel , and slipping off the apron . 
and Samuel threw down his apron , and took up his trowel again . 
Then to Samuel -- `` You are very good to mind the child . '' 
Samuel demeaned himself very modestly ; he did n't mind just how many there was , he said ; three or four altogether he believed , but the biggest of 'em was n't so long as his arm ; it was no great thing to kill 'em . 
cries Samuel , charmed with the exaggeration , and then , with strict adherence to truth , and perhaps to draw her out still further , he says they were about the color of an old copper cent , and not so long as his arm . 
Why , the first one you killed reached half round my waist , and -- '' What further she would have said Samuel prevented . 
`` And my arm would quite reach round your waist , '' he said , `` with half a chance ; '' and seeing that Mrs. Fairfax frowned , he colored , and in his confusion struck the stone rather awkwardly with his hammer ; a sharp piece flew off , and grazing the bare arm of Margaret , caused a very painful , though not serious abrasion , the blood flowing profusely , and her face turning deadly pale . 
he cried ; `` what have I done ? 
And he bent reverently over her , and waved his hands to and fro as if invoking blessings . 
He would have made an eloquent study for an artist , as he thus stood , this poor , rude man , in coarse garments , his silence so tender , and his toil-worn hands waving so gently over the fair head he did not dare to touch . 
and she bound up the arm very roughly , as it seemed to Samuel . 
The sides of nature must have cracked , if Samuel had not spoken out , now . 
`` You are a woman , '' he says , `` and a mother , and it is n't becomin ' in me , a stranger and a man , to be a pintin ' out your duty to you ; you know what 's right to be done better ` an I do , I s ` pose , but I can tell you one thing , an ' it 's this ; but just for one of God 's happy accidents , you 'd a had a shader in your house to-day , instid o ' that precious bit ' o sunshine a-lyin ' at your feet ! '' 
says Samuel , and he takes her in his strong arms as easily as though she were a lamb in very truth . 
She smiled upon him from her pillows , and said she was better , and that she would be almost well if the bandage were but loosened . 
Then , dropping on one knee by the low bedside , he loosened the handkerchief , and wound it again with the skilful tenderness of one who had done nothing else , but dress wounds all his life . 
Afterwards he knelt by that low bed again , and took Margaret in his arms , recalling this night , when she smiled upon him from her pillows , and saying it was the night of their bridal . 
When Mrs. Fairfax parted with Samuel that night , she took occasion to speak of her sick darling in terms of the greatest concern , as well as fondness , but he was no sooner gone than she berated her soundly for weakly yielding to the sight of a little blood , and suffering herself to be taken in the arms of a man she had hardly seen . 
THE following evening , when the day 's work was done , Samuel Dale dressed in all his best , and with a flower in his button-hole came to inquire about Margaret . 
Mrs. Fairfax received him very coldly , as coldly as she could with consistent reference to the unfinished steps . 
`` I could n't work to-day , nor could n't rest to-night , '' he said , `` without comin ' . 
Perhaps Samuel had some perception of her mistake , and was seeking to set himself right , when he said : `` My mind has been took up all day with one sad picter , as I went along the furrer . '' 
`` I do n't find revelation all in the lids of the Bible , '' says Samuel ; `` I find it in the fields sometimes , and sometimes I find it in my own heart , bad as it is . '' 
Samuel did not answer this exclamation , but asked instead , if the handsome house yonder was not the parsonage , adding when he had received an affirmative reply , `` I thought so , and a kind of rigor , like , goes over me whenever I look at it ; something is goin ' to happen agin me , belongin ' to that place . '' 
And then she said he was a bishop 's son ! 
Samuel made no answer . 
He was drumming with his fingers on the table by which he sat , and seemed to be thinking to himself . 
exclaims Samuel , and he rises to go . 
Then Mrs. Fairfax bemoans his wickedness , and hopes that the Bishop 's son , who is very eloquent , may succeed in melting his stubborn heart , and bringing him into the church . 
`` As to my heart , '' says Samuel , `` I 'm afeared sometimes it is stubborn , but I was took in the church , by probation , when I was fifteen years old , and six months after , regular , and I 've been a member ever sence . '' 
I thought you was a worldly person , to be sure ; '' and she brought forth a pie , and insisted upon Samuel 's partaking of it , meantime imparting such scandal about Brother B. and Sister C. as we are not privileged to repeat , inasmuch as it would not have been whispered to unregenerate ears . 
`` I 'm afeared now , '' says Samuel , `` that you are misled further than before . 
`` I do n't know whether I 've backslid or not , '' says Samuel , looking down ; `` my attention is liable to be drawed off when I 'm a-hearin ' the movinest sermon , if it happens that there is a purty girl afore me . '' 
And she took his hand , in token of her sisterly regard , it is to be supposed . 
`` I wish I could think so , '' Samuel answered , `` but I ca n't . '' 
And turning away his face , he went on : `` I do n't often say anything about my religion , if I 've got any , but I thought I 'd say this to you in the beginnin ' , so that neither yourself nor , '' he hesitated and added , changing the form of his sentence probably , `` so that neither you nor anybody would think me any better than I am . '' 
Samuel did not return the pressure ; his mind seemed preoccupied , and he asked , as if in pursuance of some train of thought , when Father Goodman was going to leave them , and if the bishop 's son was to come right away , and then he said it was nothing to him , he did n't know why he asked , and with an abrupt good-night , was gone . 
She went to bed without seeing Margaret , who , being restless and weary , meanwhile , arose and sat at her window , noting how softly the moonlight lay upon the distant fields , the fields where Samuel had been at work that day . 
The next evening , and the next , and the next , Samuel came and inquired about Margaret , but Margaret was kept well out of sight . 
`` She is not yet well enough to brave the night air , the poor , dear child , '' says Mrs. Fairfax , and so she puts him off ; making herself familiar , fond almost , in the meantime , and seeking by a thousand nameless arts to establish some sort of relations between herself and him . 
Do come often , Brother Dale , or Samuel ; which shall I call you ? 
It was after some such talk as this , that she said to him , one evening , taking both his hands in hers , in the sweet sincerity of her importunity : `` Is n't there something , dear Samuel , I can do for you , to pay you for all your goodness ? '' 
`` No , ma'am , '' said Samuel , `` nothing at all . '' 
And then he said he was sure there was nothing to pay for . 
`` If you insist so much , there is one thing , '' Samuel said , stammering . 
He did not take her to his knee , but told her like the honest-hearted fellow he was , that he loved her daughter Margaret , and did not believe that ever in his life he should love anybody else . 
She found a place to sit , however , and replied calmly , very calmly , that the intelligence made her more than happy , but the dear child was so young , he must not think of speaking of love to her , not yet , not for a long time , not for a year , at least . 
And Samuel promised sacredly that for twelve months he would not speak of love to Margaret , and Mrs. Fairfax gave him a little kiss on the forehead , and he went away with a light heart . 
After this understanding Samuel became quite intimate in his friendship with Mrs. Fairfax , -- dangerously confidential , in fact , -- he did many chores for her , and she managed always to have some little commission in his hands , and petted and scolded , and praised and blamed him at her pleasure ; sometimes she would give him a playful box on the ear , and other times , reward him with a kiss . 
He often supped at her table , drove her to town now and then , made her presents of a domestic and serviceable character , and of Sunday evening , sung with her out of the same hymn-book . 
How she cried when they fell in her lap , one by one , those shining curls , and lay there , a silken heap , but smiled again , and was almost pacified when Samuel , hiding the tremor of his lip under his hat-brim , said to her , `` Never mind , you look just as pretty as ever , any how ! '' 
It was on the evening of this same day that as Margaret sat on the new door-steps watching the glory of the sunset , -- all the grand picture she had ever seen , -- Samuel Dale came up the path and seated himself beside her ; he had but just time to say , however , `` You look just as pretty as ever , '' when Mrs. Fairfax appeared , and took matters in her own hands , by seating herself between the pair . 
`` What do you suppose I have been thinking about , Samuel ? '' 
Samuel said he was sure he did not know , and his tone implied that he did not care . 
And she told him that she had been thinking that he ought to marry , and she had selected just the wife for him ; and so she went on and finally made as close a likeness of herself as could be . 
`` Such a wife would n't suit me in a single particular , '' Samuel answered . 
And as he was saying this , he put his arm about the neck of Wolf , and drew him between himself and Mrs. Fairfax , who told him playfully that he was ill-natured and had better go home . 
Samuel said he was of her opinion , and rising at once , went down the path and out of the gate , without another word . 
Mrs. Fairfax called after Wolf , who was scrambling over the fence behind Samuel . 
He stopped and looked round . 
`` You must go back ; old boy , '' he said , kindly , patting the great head of the dog ; but when he went forward again , Wolf went too , running between his legs , licking his hands , and in all ways he knew manifesting his fondness . 
`` I ca n't bear to drive him back outright , '' Samuel called out , `` so if you do n't mind , Mrs. Fairfax , I 'll bring him back to-morrow night . '' 
She did not mind of course , and with his shaggy tail curled to a ring on his back , the dog trotted off behind the young man , and both were soon out of sight . 
And then she drew a comparison that was very unfavorable to Samuel , between him and the bishop 's son . 
Margaret made no reply , and all the next day nothing was said of Samuel , but when , at sunset Mrs. Fairfax announced her intention of running up to Mrs. Whiteflock 's for half an hour , Margaret very well understood that the visit was in some way connected with him . 
She was scarcely out of sight when Samuel appeared , fresh , trim , smiling , and bearing in his hand a bouquet of the fairest daises . 
`` I do n't know how it is , '' he said , as he dropped the flowers in Margaret 's lap , `` but somehow , these things always make me think o ' you . 
`` I always liked 'em , '' he replied , `` but I never envied ' em , as I know of , till now . '' 
Margaret hung her head to hide her blushes , and the next moment , with artful evasion , said , he ought not to envy the poor things their beauty , -- they were withering already . 
`` It was n't thieir beauty I envied 'em , '' he said , in his honest , simple way , `` but I did envy 'em for all that , and if they are a-witherin ' I think they ought to be happy even to die . '' 
`` You speak riddles , '' Margaret said , at the same time caressing the great ears and big round neck of Wolf -LRB- who sat beside her -RRB- , in a way that was very provoking to Samuel . 
He stood silent before her so long that she said at last , piqued , perhaps : `` Why do n't you ask for mother ? 
Margaret looked serious , and he , seating himself beside her and picking the flowers that lay in her lap to pieces , tossed the broken flakes away . 
Margaret said , pettishly putting back his hand . 
`` So I did , '' he answered ; nevertheless he continued to toss away the flowers ; perhaps for the sake of having his hand thus put back , for it was only by this chance that he had ever touched her hand since the first day of their acquaintance . 
When they were all broken and tumbled and lying white at her feet , Margaret gave him a pretty scolding , and told him she would never forgive him as long as she lived . 
`` I 'm sorry , '' he said , `` I was n't half a-thinkin ' of what I was doin ' , I was n't , raly ! '' 
and then he said if she liked daisies so much , maybe she would n't mind goin ' across the hill to the meader where they growed ; if she would n't mind , he could fill her apron with them in a few minutes ! 
In a green hollow -- `` the lap of the meader , '' Samuel called it -- they came upon the daisies , and had a little quarrel as to whether the tall or the short ones were the prettier , and Margaret in make-believe anger threw handfuls of them over her admirer , who , as he picked them from his hair and beard , felt that so charming a creature did not exist in all the world . 
When the apron was filled with daisies , they required to be assorted , and to do this required time , and as the pleasing work prolonged itself , Samuel sung snatches of old songs , and tender bits of love ditties , out of tune to be sure , and with sad omissions and substitutions of words and rhymes , but full of sweet meaning and passionate pathos , and , to Margaret , masterly triumphs of executive skill . 
Mrs. Whiteflock had communicated intelligence , that in some sort reconciled her to the defeat of her matrimonial scheme with Samuel Dale ; he had left a sweetheart behind him ! 
She had herself seen him several distinct times writing letters on tinted paper ; moreover , she had plied him with questions , and he had the same as owned the fact to be as she supposed ; he had a sweetheart , a great way off ; those had been his very words . 
If Mrs. Whiteflock could have removed Samuel 's Sunday coat , trowsers and blue silk pocket-handkerchief , together with divers and sundry other articles and appurtenances , she might have discovered , safe between the leaves of his Testament , and in the very bottom of his old hair trunk , the veritable love-letters , all inscribed to Margaret Fairfax , and affluent with all he dare not speak . 
Her little cap with its red ribbons , had scarcely been soiled on Samuel 's account . 
She rejoiced in that ; then there were the steps , clear gain , besides a good many other gains , and for the future she would compel him to serve her to the extent of her pleasure ! 
Had n't he told her things ? 
and was n't he in her power ? 
`` Have you seen Samuel ? '' 
`` Yes ; he stopped , and , leaving Wolf , went away again . 
She knew by that instinctive perception that is wiser than any other wisdom , that she was beloved by Samuel , and if he loved her what cared she for gossip ? 
`` Mrs. Fairfax was well deceived ; the girl did n't care for Samuel , after all , she thought , and she proceeded to unfold another budget of news , all about the new preacher , the Bishop 's son , who was to come to them now very soon . 
She was thinking of Samuel , and Mrs. Fairfax took the alarm . 
she said , adding directly : `` I wish you to be punctual at church when our new preacher comes , and not suffer your mind to be drawn off , so that he may see you have a pious mother , and see , and see , and '' -- She could not think what more she wished him to see , and abruptly changed the subject . 
Margaret had no heart to say anything more concerning the slippers , and nothing further was said of Samuel that night , nor for days afterward . 
He came and went , rendering various services to the mother , as usual , and never seeing the daughter alone , but steadily growing in favor with the one and out of favor with the other . 
Margaret was smiling as well as blushing now ; her mother was being forced to hear the praises of Samuel Dale , though she would not speak them . 
And now I come to think , I heard Samuel saying something or other about your steps . '' 
Oh , now I know what Samuel said . '' 
`` And what do you think , Sister Fairfax , he said about you ? '' 
`` Well , he wanted to know who that fine-looking woman was in the white shawl , and said he would make it a point to see you very soon , and then he asked if that beautiful little girl in the pew with you was your daughter . '' 
`` He said littlegirl , you are quite sure ? '' 
`` There was one circumstance connected with his visit that I ca n't understand . '' 
Mrs. Whiteflock continued , and she bent low , and spoke almost in a whisper , `` He would go down to see Peter . 
On the part of Mrs. Fairfax , to Margaret , and to Samuel Dale , whose proper name she contemptuously denuded of two syllables . 
Sister Whiteflock had been mistaken as to Samuel 's old sweetheart , and the mistake had misled her , and caused her to receive him on terms of familiarity which she bitterly regretted ; in short , to accord him a footing in her household , from which she now found it advisable to eject him . 
He had stolen the heart of her child , a crime for which she could never forgive him . 
Margaret was his sweetheart , and no other ! 
So the two women put their heads together and agreed that Samuel should be ousted , and that all means to this end were righteous . 
He was homely , homely as a scare-scrow ! 
he was big , big as the side of the house ! 
and they wished he would go back where he came from ! 
Samuel had given it in secret , and no one in the world except they two knew that she possessed it . 
The manner of the mystic , medium , fortune-teller , or whatever he was , changed from sweetness to severity with a suddenness and completeness that quite transformed him . 
`` Can you expect help from me , '' he said , `` when you come to me with a falsehood on your lips ! 
His eyes were closed , but Margaret felt that he , or rather that some intelligence represented by him , was looking through her . 
At this , her confessor resumed his benign aspect , and `` calmed her fears , and she was calm , and told her love with virgin pride . '' 
`` It grows very dark about you , '' he said ; `` I can not see all , but I see that you are beloved . 
S-a-m -- Samuel , that is the name , and he who bears that name has a beautiful spirit . 
Be true , my child , be true to him , whatever interpose ; no other man will ever love you as he does . '' 
`` There is another picture presented , '' he said ; `` I see a church , and a pale young man coming out of it ; he approaches you , and the dove flutters and trembles , and now he strikes it with his white hand , and with broken wing I see it lying on the ground at your feet . 
She meant to own her love for Samuel ; her hand was already on the ring ; she meant to confess the stolen interview of the morning , but the mother preferred not to hear what she already knew ; as matters stood she could ignore the facts , and , as she believed , manage more adroitly . 
She could not for the life of her say anything that referred ever so remotely to Samuel . 
With regard to him she could not assert herself . 
She seemed not to be aware of the silence , but answered her own questions , and ran on from this indifferent matter to that , and from one person to another till at last , quite incidentally , she mentioned Samuel . 
He was n't quite what a young man should be , she was afraid ; he stayed out late of nights , drank , and played cards ; she hoped nothing worse , but she did n't know . 
She was sorry to hear such things ; he seemed like a harmless fellow , a clod-hopper , to be sure , but good-natured and well-disposed . 
He had himself as good as told her that he did n't believe in the Bible ! 
A word from her would put him out of the church , but she would forbear . 
It was best for all , she said , that each should keep in his right place . 
This young fellow , whoever he was -- Sister Whiteflock 's man -- was very ignorant , and did n't really know his place , she supposed , `` but we know ours , at any rate , '' she said , `` and must keep in it . '' 
And she strove to impress upon Margaret , the necessity of great reserve in her intercourse with Samuel , by a variety of insinuations and intimations not here set down . 
She had drawn farther and farther away from her mother until she was quite shrunken into the chimney-corner , where with her head leaned upon the stone p488-056 jamb she listened to the heart beating loud and fast under the ring in her bosom , and thought of him who gave it , with twice the accustomed tenderness . 
Hitherto , she had had him only to love ; henceforth he was to defend , to protect , to carefully guard and encourage as well ; for that she would stand for him against the world , she did not for a moment doubt . 
She had reached the terminus of the walk she had proposed to herself , and stood on the slope of the hill beneath a clump of young maples , gazing earnestly down the road , when a cloud of rose leaves came between her eyes and the object she watched for , and turning hastily , almost angrily about , she found herself face to face with Samuel Dale . 
He saw the look of surprise amounting pretty nearly to displeasure , and was abashed , and doubtless meant it as an apology for intrusion , when he said : `` It is not to see you , Miss Margaret , that I am here . 
Samuel looked so disappointed , so embarrassed , and awkward in his disappointment , that she said she did n't mind if she did go a little further . 
Samuel had never looked so handsome as he did that evening ; he wore a blouse of blue stuff that became him wonderfully , and his broad-brimmed palm-leaf , and the single rose at his button-hole , gave a touch of the jaunty that was to Margaret , at any rate , quite enchanting . 
He was more at home with himself , too , with Mrs. Fairfax at such a distance , and got through some sentences almost elegantly , as it seemed to his charmed listener . 
If mother could but hear him ! 
was not possible ; he could not thus have spoken if she had been there , and she could not have heard it if he had . 
Indeed , I think we must love our friend before we can ever know the best of him . 
He told Margaret how much money he had saved , and how much more he would have saved by the end of the year ; how many pairs of shoes he had , and in what states of preservation they were , and just what had been the cost of four new shirts that he had purchased . 
It was a good many to get at once , but he thought he might as well have a full supply while he was about it . 
He asked Margaret 's advice about some quite private and personal matters , and in many ways overstepped the reserve which Mrs. Fairfax had enjoined upon him , yet withal , kept his promise ; he did not speak of love . 
And in all this talk about the shoes , and the rest of it , he did not appear foolish or small ; fond , confidential -- nothing more . 
He was so honest , so great-hearted , so magnanimous in all his feelings , he could not have appeared mean or little in any circumstances . 
He possessed a certain pride and ambition , too , that in their effect upon his manners amounted almost to dignity . 
It is not generally conceded , to be sure , that a poor working man may of right hold up his head and lift up his hopes , but concession or no concession , Samuel took such leave , and certainly his aspirations were not very presumptuous ; their ultimate stretch probably , on the evening we write of , would have been , to own fifty acres of ground , a house modelled humbly after the parsonage , a garden , with beds of herbs and borders of flowers , and to be able to say in the presence of all the men and women he knew , `` My wife ! '' 
and to say it to the young woman standing beside him . 
He had told this in twenty different ways as they walked together in the twilight ; every touch of his hand had thrilled it to her heart , every glance of his eyes had conveyed it to her soul ; every low and tremulous tone had intimated it , but Margaret , though she perfectly understood , replied to what he said , and not to the import of what he said ; perhaps with womanish perversity , perhaps , in part , with intent to draw him out . 
Samuel was excusable , but how should Margaret know of the obligation to silence he was under . 
She did not dream of it , but feeling the silence on his part to be an offence , took a colder and more formal tone , and , at length fell to silence herself , altogether . 
Samuel saw the cloud on her brow , and strove by various little arts to win back the vanished radiance ; he gathered the blooming bunches of the iron-weed that grew by the way , and playfully scattered them over her head , until her hair and shoulders shone with them , until all her bosom was full of them . 
She did not lift her hand to brush them away ; she did not lift her eyelid , did not smile , nor speak ; and when at last he said : `` What is the matter with you , Margaret ? '' 
And when he said in lower , tenderer tones , `` Wo n't my dear Daisy tell her clumsy Sam , her own clumsy Sam , that ought to know of his own head , but do n't ? '' 
She said she did n't know who his Daisy was , and that for her part she had n't any Sam , that she knew of . 
Samuel did not touch the hand , nor seek to touch it , as he might have done , but steadying up his courage with all his might , said : `` There is but one thing for me to do , Margaret , -- Miss Margaret , I mean , -- I must n't see you any more , I must go away . '' 
Margaret spoke playfully , at the same time taking his hand in both hers , as if to put in it the blossoms she had saved . 
`` They are blessed now , '' he said , `` my poor , homely blossoms ! '' 
and he kissed them , and put them carefully away ; but he did not retain the hand ; nor seek to retain it ; he did not say , as Margaret had perhaps expected , `` you do n't love me , my darling ; all my heart is yours , and to keep it from breaking I must needs go out of your sight . '' 
He could not say this , as the reader knows , but if he could have said it , or anything like it , the shadow that came between them , the night that fell upon them , might have been averted . 
`` You are crueler than you need to be , crueler than you would be , if you knew all , '' Samuel answered , `` but I must keep my promise ; I never broke my sacred promise yet , and I must n't begin now . '' 
There was a good deal more between them ; talk about things rather than directly of them , ending , on the part of Margaret , with reference to the dark accusations that were current against him . 
`` I do n't know what you 've heard against me , '' Samuel answered sadly , `` but there 's a mighty sight might be told if the truth was all knowed ; I ai n't no saint , O no ! 
He broke quite down at this point , and turning away his face applied himself assiduously to pulling their flowery tops from the iron-weeds . 
Margaret remained silent , intent only , as it seemed , upon catching the first glimpse of her mother ; and , at last , having got the mastery of himself , Samuel said , `` I wish it was all over , and that I was back agin . '' 
Samuel was offended . 
`` Laugh if you want to , '' he said , `` rememberin ' it will lighten my sufferings . '' 
`` O , you 're very good , and I 'm sure I 'm much obleeged to you for your condescension , '' Samuel replied , still further offended . 
He then said there were some folks in the world besides his mother , who believed in him , yet . 
Margaret said she had heard as much ; he drew himself up at this , and as if the time were becoming tedious , said he wished her mother would come . 
`` I wish so too , '' replied Margaret , repeating the lie he had uttered , with what seemed very earnest sincerity , and she added directly , `` You need n't wait for her , I 'm sure mother and I can take care of ourselves ! '' 
`` I know it , Miss Margaret , '' he answered , half sadly , half bitterly . 
Ah , Samuel , there was but a sorry chance for you just then . 
She felt that she condescended a little in permitting herself to be loved by Samuel , and was , therefore , the more indignant at his reticence . 
`` I am sorry you wish us harm , '' she said , affecting not to understand his remark about their independence , `` but I do n't suppose we 'll go to the poor-house just because you would like to have it so . '' 
`` I see you 're determined not to understand anything I say , '' replied Samuel , in sorrow , rather than anger , `` so it ai n't worth a-while for me to waste more words . 
`` It 's a pity if I ca n't be as independent as he , '' thought Margaret , `` I wo n't be the one to be left , not I. '' And telling him that if he was going about his own affairs , so that he might go away from her , she would save him the trouble , she turned from him proudly , and walked slowly in the direction of home , hoping , it is not unlikely , that he would call her back . 
He would gladly have done so , but he was not without his share of pride too ; then he indulged the hope that she would return of her own free will when she should hear the market-cart rattling in the distance . 
Margaret was not yet out of sight when the market-cart came rattling over the next hill , more noisily than Samuel could have hoped , but the haughty girl did not so much as turn her head . 
She knew that Samuel loved her , and knew that she was making him wretched , knew that she was not only making herself wretched for the time , but moreover , laying up sorrow for the time to come . 
When Mrs. Fairfax found Samuel waiting for her , and alone , she accosted him with great good humor ; `` Get right up beside me , '' she said , `` and drive me home ; my poor arms ache with the pulling of old Whiteface upon the bit . 
Of course Samuel did n't know where Margaret was , and this ignorance still further increased the cordiality of the patroness , and as they drove forward she related all the experiences of the day . 
She told him how she had lost a linch-pin , and how a strange gentleman had taken one from his gig , and given her ; and then she enumerated all the things she had bought , and the price she had paid for each article , and asked Samuel to sum up the entire amount , both because she was proud of the largeness of the sum spent , and for the reason that he would naturally feel himself farther removed from her daughter , by a knowledge of her pinchbeck earrings , and prunella slippers . 
Samuel had never in his life , felt so poor , so hurt , as when carrying his arms full of parcels and boxes and bundles , he laid them down in the lap of Margaret , who received them without a smile . 
He would not go away without a reconciliation , she felt sure of that , presuming upon his love , and forgetting that love will sometimes bear less than hate . 
The best table-cloth was laid , and all the tea things arranged with unusual care , she peeping through the curtains now and then to see him as he went about the evening chores , his palm-leaf hat a little one side and his blue blouse all unbuttoned to the wind . 
Mrs. Fairfax , when she accepted his proffered services , did not invite him to remain and drink tea with them , as she used to do , -- this was one of the differences she had made , -- she was willing to receive as much as ever , but when it came to giving , she was chary . 
Her forms of address indicated the degree of the favor she was angling for -- `` Samuel '' was for her most independent moods , or , perhaps it were better said , for her least dependent occasions , inasmuch as she was never independent . 
was brought into requisition in exigent cases -- for instance -- `` Samuel , would it trouble you too much , when you go to the village this evening , to see the butcher for me ? '' 
Of course Samuel would n't mind , and of course she got the strawberries -- a beautiful basket of them , all blushing among dewy leaves . 
`` Now , my Saint Samuel , '' she said , when she received them , `` will you oblige me once more , just for the love I bear you ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' what could he say otherwise , and then she asked him to leave the strawberries at the parsonage , as a little present from Mrs. Fairfax and daughter to the bishop 's son ! 
Samuel had disliked the bishop 's son by anticipation before he ever saw him , and had subsequently found no reason to change his mind . 
Nevertheless he sat astride the fence and whistled to the moon that evening , while the bishop 's son said grace over a silver bowl of strawberries . 
`` I really believe I forgot to ask Samuel to sup with us ; but he has already eaten , I dare say , such persons have early hours , you know ! '' 
She tried in vain to seem gay , the words came stammeringly , and then not at all , and finally when the mother made some slighting remark about Samuel she burst into tears . 
Then she went away from the table , and seating herself on the low doorstep , looked out into the night , not to watch the soft rising moon , nor to see the twinkling of the village lights ; unconsciously to herself almost , she hoped to see Samuel still lingering about the well , or in the garden . 
any body would be down-hearted , if they had been alone all day as you have been , or what is worse , had seen only that curious creature , Samuel ; really , my strong nerves are shocked by him sometimes ! 
I suppose he waited to-night to be especially invited to come in ! 
Well , if he waits for me to coax him he 'll wait a good while , I dislike him more and more every day ; he is so big , and so awkward ! '' 
She could blame Samuel herself , but she could not patiently hear another blame him , and that other , her mother , who owed him so much gratitude . 
She said something half inaudibly to the effect that Samuel could live without some folks as well as some folks could live without him , and so , sullen , as well as sad , went away to her chamber , where , with her eyes hidden on her arm , she at last fell asleep , sighing and sobbing even in her dream . 
almost as nothing , but if she could have known they were designed to buy her away from Samuel , they would have been less than nothing ; as it was , she had them to set against his indifference , and thus she made for herself some cold comfort . 
When the morning light streamed through the window and across Margaret 's pillow , the fear and despondency of the previous night vanished like a shadow , she was so conscious of possessing the love of Samuel that she could not believe he would long remain away from her , and by anticipation began almost to enjoy the triumph which she felt so sure of achieving . 
She did not believe he in the least designed to go away , but even supposing he had such thoughts , he would come to see her before putting them in execution , and if he once sees me , she said , let him go if he can ! 
And having taken this for granted , her thoughts ran forward and pictured , after a fashion highly satisfactory to herself , all the details of the interview ; how Samuel should first relieve her of all blame and afterwards own himself to blame , very much to blame -- wrong , altogether in the wrong -- herself quite right , and to be asked forgiveness of , which , after receiving many promises and protestations , she would grant . 
In all this she reckoned without her Samuel , poor child ; he had his pride as well as she , and a much wiser and more enduring pride . 
If he had felt himself the superior person , if he had felt himself in any way the equal of his captor , which in his sweet humility he did not , he might not have stood so coldly out , but he was conscious of all his clumsy ways , and never without a suspicion that she was conscious of them too ; it seemed , therefore , as though there were nothing for him to do but fall back upon his pride . 
He remembered her bitter taunts , not with any feelings of resentment , and not as attaching any blame to her , some how , and some way , she was justified ; it was her mother , it was idle gossip , it was the bishop 's son ! 
And evening after evening , as Samuel sat thus , reading and singing , and talking of things unseen , Margaret walked in the lane with a half scornful smile on her face , and evening after evening the rosy twilight fell into gray , and the gray slowly and soberly deepened to black , and he did not come -- he that she hoped to see . 
Since she had first seen him , so many days had not elapsed without a meeting between them , yet Mrs. Fairfax passed it along without any notice whatever ; it happened that she had no especial need of Samuel during these days . 
She would of a surety meet Samuel at church ; he would shake hands with her ; perhaps walk part of the way home with her , and all would be made up ! 
Above the looking-glass , which was not much bigger than one 's hand , hung the scarlet wing of a wild bird , and beneath it , a curiously-curled ram 's horn , and these , as might be guessed , were the gifts of Samuel . 
From the drawer of the bureau peeped the blue fringes of the comforter she was secretly knitting for him against the far-away Christmas time , and on the table beside the Testament , lay a bunch of withered daisies , gathered by the beloved hand . 
Shall Samuel look upon all these new things unmoved ? 
She was well enough pleased with herself , but would she please Samuel ? 
`` The folks will think I have got a young lady from town with me , '' she said , and they set out together , talking little by the way , each being preoccupied ; the mother , with ambitious hopes and schemes ; Margaret , with Samuel . 
What if he should not be at church ! 
What if he should not speak to her ! 
Then she would chide her heart for its foolish fancies ; he would be there , of course he would be there , the first to seek her , and so humbly penitent ! 
He might not walk home with her , but he would come in the evening , and they would sit in the moonlight together once more , and she would say this and that , and so she planned all her speech , and all her conduct . 
She would not wear her fine things ; she would wear the string of black beads , tied with the blue ribbon with which he had played so often , and the muslin dress with the brown speck , that would be sure to please ; he would call her Daisy , and everything would be as it used to be . 
Perhaps he had been watching for her , and would overtake her before she reached the meeting-house ; her heart was a-tremble with sweet hopes ; every approaching footstep was his , and not a shadow crossed her path , and not a voice reached her ear but fancy made a picture of him ; eagerness to serve her , showing through his modesty , and the grace of charm , shining over his clumsiness . 
They reached the meeting-house gate , and she had not yet seen him except in fancy ; he was gone into the church before her , and one opportunity was lost . 
She felt misgivings lest she might not look well in his eyes , and lest he might think she desired to be noticed . 
She could hardly lift her eyes as she walked behind her mother down the aisle ; his eyes were upon her , she was sure , and now that she was so near him , her fears got the better of her hopes . 
It was not long , however , that she thought of him , for with the first step that crossed the threshold her thoughts reverted to Samuel . 
Samuel was used to sing in the choir . 
She had not distinguished his voice , but that might be owing to her confusion ; he was surely there , for he never failed of being at church -- never failed singing with all his soul . 
And it was always a pleasure to her to hear his voice ring out with the best of them . 
Perhaps he was not singing with his accustomed spirit that day , but try as she would to stay up her courage , the fear that he was not in the meeting-house , and that some evil had befallen him -- for love is strangely apprehensive for the beloved -- took possession of her ; a chilly dampness crept over her from head to foot , a blindness that was dizzy veiled her sight , and she fell , rather than sank , to her seat . 
What would she not have given now to have that last miserable evening with Samuel to live over again ! 
Perhaps he had gone away in very truth , and she was never to see him more , however long she might live ! 
Perhaps he was sick -- dying , and she not near to ask his forgiveness ; these , and all the other tormenting fancies that love is so cunning to devise , crowded into her brain and made her heart sick . 
* * * IF tormenting fancies came to Margaret , when she missed Samuel at church , with what an accession of tormenting power did they come when she lay on her own bed , tossing to and fro , night after night . 
She could not speak of him , and her mother would not ; she , simple soul , being completely submerged by the civilities of the bishop 's son . 
One evening , being in the meadow to fetch home the cows , she turned directly from the hillside where she saw them feeding , turned without premeditation , without any thought at all , and walking rapidly , running almost , came to the door of the house where Samuel lived , and eager , pale , trembling , knocked for admission . 
She would know , once for all , whether Samuel were gone or not , whether he were dead or alive , and whether , being alive , he loved or hated ; she must know this or die . 
Margaret hesitated , trying to invent some excuse ; her courage would not bear her through ; that piece of biscuit disenchanted her of her fears , saying very plainly , all here is well , and Samuel into the bargain ! 
`` I want to know if Samuel is here . '' 
`` Samuel ? 
bless your soul , yes , here he is , if that 's all you want . '' 
She pushed Margaret forward as she spoke , and there before her frightened face sat Samuel , not as fancy had pictured him , pale , despondent , pining for her , but red , rolicking , his shirt collar open , and a pocket handkerchief girded about his waist , eating supper with half a dozen sheep-shearers . 
Their ragged boots kicked at Samuel 's legs under the table , and their well laden knives balanced midway between mouth and plate , when , at last , their roars of laughter subsided . 
No doubt Samuel was glad in his heart to see Margaret , and be assured , as he was by her thus seeking him , of her deep and tender interest ; nevertheless , false pride or shamefacedness , or both , kept him from advancing and receiving her with any show of gladness . 
So that her confusion almost overcame her as she said , `` Mother wishes to see you , Samuel . '' 
And Samuel , who had partly risen , seated himself again as though he had nothing more to say . 
He seated himself , but ate no more , and if he had not partaken of something stronger than tea that afternoon , it is not likely he would have spoken thus . 
As it was he had wronged himself as much as he had wronged his poor little sweet-heart , drooping like a down-trodden wild flower before him . 
Every word had tortured him as he said it , but he had pre-determined to meet her thus coldly , in vindication of his wounded pride , of his manhood , and of the slight which had seemed to be put upon him ; and the sly winks , the rude laughter , and the nudges of the ragged boots under the table had helped him to execute his bad resolve . 
He would have unsaid all the next moment , if he could , and when he beheld the abashed face , and the little trembles about the mouth so preciously dear to him , he could hardly refrain from going forward and kissing her before them all . 
He did no such thing , however ; he put down his heart , and bore it through , saying only in a rough , indifferent way , `` As I 'm sent for , I reckon I 'll go after my work is done ; you may tell your mother so if you have a mind to . '' 
Margaret could not know how deeply he had felt himself injured . 
She could not know how cruelly she had seemed to slight him , nor could she appreciate the conflict of despairing love and stubborn pride that was within him , rending and tearing and making him almost irresponsible for himself . 
She did not as yet suspect his bitterest grievance , and every separate word struck into her heart like a sharp stab . 
His cold , distrustful glance benumbed her like death ; she felt the blood running chill in her veins , a whirling sensation in her brain , saw a darkness closing about her , and with just strength enough left to stand , turned away , scarcely for a time knowing whither she went . 
She thought of her mother sewing by the candle light , thought of the preacher reading in his study , of his smile and his beautiful hair , and then she thought of Samuel , red and greasy from sheep shearing ; thought of his open collar and his hard words , and doubt and distrust , both of herself and him , stole like a thief to her bosom , and added a yet sharper pain to her pains . 
The dews and the night air chilled her at length , and in this way were the means of bringing her back to herself ; she was still in the world of men , not in the world of demons ; the sky was above her , the ground beneath ; she was alive and must bear herself some way toward her friends and toward Samuel , but how ? 
She knew that she was absorbed by Samuel , completely absorbed , but what place he was finally to occupy in her regard she could not tell . 
In vain she tried to adjust herself to the new aspect in which he had presented himself . 
She could not but condemn his conduct ; but somehow , after all , she did not condemn him . 
It was the whiskey ; it was the sheep-shearers , with whom by necessity he had been thrown . 
He was poor and could not choose his occupation nor his friends . 
If it had not been for this , if it had not been for that ; if she herself had not been so foolishly , so wickedly at fault , Samuel might have been blameless . 
He was the same as blameless . 
Samuel would fulfil his promise , and in the fulfilment of it would convict her ! 
She had not , as we have said , condemned Samuel utterly , out of all hope ; nevertheless , she had no desire to see him , or believed she had none . 
She knew the path Samuel would take ; she would walk there , and , intercepting him , own the truth that she had sought him on her own and not on her mother 's account . 
What further she should say she did not determine ; probably she would never see him more . 
He was coming , but not from the point she had expected ; he had already been to see her mother , having taken the highroad instead of the by-path , and was now returning home . 
He had seen her mother , -- had told her all , no doubt ; she was too late , -- all too late . 
She flew at him madly , for what is so mad as an enraged woman ! 
She accused him of wilfully , wickedly misinterpreting her ; he knew she had come to see him , and for nothing else ; he knew how much she had suffered ; he must have seen it all , and if he had been a man , if he had been any part of the man she had always supposed him to be , he would have come to the door , have come outside the door , and learned definitely what she wanted , instead of hanging back , and laughing with the sheep-shearers as he had done . 
She was not only ashamed of him ; she was ashamed of herself that she had ever cared for so base a fellow ! 
Thus attacked , Samuel defended himself very earnestly , but with more wit than honesty , it must be owned . 
He had understood her well enough ; to be sure he had ; he had understood her to say , and she certainly did say , her mother wished to see him . 
`` Your lady mother , '' he worded it . 
He had always supposed her to be a young woman who spoke the truth and only the truth ; and how should he suspect she meant what she did not say . 
She had no trouble to express herself plainly ; that was clear ; he understood her now , he thought , if he had failed to do so before ; still , if she had any explanation to make , he was ready to hear it , -- ready to do her justice if he had not done so . 
He was singularly , provokingly self-possessed in all this , seeming to be master of himself and of the occasion , much more than was usual with him . 
Samuel stopped playing with his daisy , and his chin buried itself deep in his beard . 
He had spoken with so tender , so sad a reproachfulness , that Margaret 's heart almost misgave her , and when she answered , it was with some slight tremor of voice . 
He had come close and put his arm about her , for he needed but a soft word . 
`` How could I s ` pose , Margaret , '' -LRB- he was not yet quite sincere , -RRB- `` that you had anything to say to me that you could n't say before my friends and equals ? 
His reverence yonder , '' -LRB- he pointed to the personage -RRB- `` might a-knowed what you meant ; I daresay he would . '' 
O Samuel ? 
He drew nearer by two or three steps . 
She moved farther from him as she answered : `` Whether or not I hadanything to say , I have n't anything to say now , except this : It will be a good while before I trouble you with another visit ! '' 
He drew still nearer , and held out his hand . 
She would not take his hand , nor suffer him to take hers . 
Samuel answered , standing erect . 
Margaret laughed in derision , and he went on : `` You may think a ribbon at your throat , or a jewel hung in your ear , is everything , but I can tell you there are better things ! 
`` Well , there wasanother reason , '' Samuel said ; I did n't dare to speak . '' 
`` No , did n't dare , both because I felt you was so much better than what I was , and because '' -- -LRB- he hesitated and went on -RRB- -- `` because I 'd promised not to . 
Margaret drew back , startled this time by his bold impetuosity . 
he cried , `` you know it ! '' 
He let go of her now ; his voice changed ; his whole manner changed . 
`` You may find men enough that know more than I do , '' he said ; `` and men that are more set off by outside tinsel and show ; but you 'll never find a man that 's yours all through and through as I am . '' 
He was silent now , for his emotions would not allow him to go on . 
`` You 're crueller than you need be , seems to me , '' Samuel answered . 
`` I did n't see you , Samuel , as true as I stand here , I did n't ! '' 
Then Margaret told with simple sincerity that she did want to see him , that she looked for him everywhere , that she was faint and sick with disappointment . 
Samuel was silent , and she continued , for she had got upon the sore point now , `` Oh ! 
Samuel , if your enemy had told me you would ever treat me as you did , I would have called him a liar to his face ! 
`` Oh , Samuel ! 
Samuel ! '' 
`` Well , my Daisy , my little Daisy , purer than snow , I wo n't ask you to think so now , not just now ; but if you ever thought it , or anything like it ; '' he was on his knees before her , and both her hands in his ; but what protestation or proposal he might have made , or what concession or acceptance she , it is quite impossible to say . 
All at once , without premonition of sight or sound , a man passed them , so close , that his shadow darkened all the face of Samuel . 
`` I have stayed too long already ; what will he think of me , with you , in such a place , at such a time ? 
cried Samuel , on his feet before the words were out . 
There he was again , not a dozen yards from them , his fair face aglow with a smile of triumph . 
The moonlight fell full upon him , and he remained confronting them still as a statue , while the village clock struck nine . 
Both Margaret and Samuel noted it , and counted the strokes , as they had occasion to remember . 
Whether Samuel had torn himself from her arm , or whether she had let go of him , she could not tell . 
Then some one said he would n't be in Sam Dale 's shoes for a good deal ; and was answered by the suggestion that perhaps there was n't any such person as Samuel Dale ! 
He was a gallus bird , likely . 
Margaret caught the word `` murder '' joined to that of Samuel , and with one long , heart-breaking moan , fell insensible to the ground . 
Samuel Dale has acknowledged the murder and given himself up ! 
He says , moreover , that your daughter was with him when he did the foul deed , and will confirm his statement . 
Yes , she had seen Samuel Dale that evening ; she had happened to meet him as she was fetching home the cows , and had conversed with him for a short time ; he appeared to be in a state of excitement , but she saw nothing to indicate insanity . 
She distinctly remembered the time at which she separated from him . 
The tavern keeper had himself witnessed the act , and taken Samuel , who confessed to the accusation , immediately to the magistrates . 
One or two even ventured the remark that both Sam and the tavern keeper were crazy , but Dr. Allprice gave it as his opinion that Samuel was of as sound mind as he himself , and that he entertained a high estimate of his own soundness every body knew . 
Meanwhile news continued to be brought in , a good deal of it `` turning of no turning at all , '' and the gist being that Samuel had quietly given himself up , but that as to the cause of the murder , he refused to explain , saying that he was ready to give his life for the one he had taken , and what further had men to do with it ! 
Such whispers began to run , and she and her lover were spoken of as the girl , Margaret , and the man , calling himself Samuel . 
Dr. Allprice gave it as his opinion that the man , calling himself Dale , had , for some unknown cause , committed murder on the person of John Hamlyn Lightwait , and subsequently , or previously , it might be , for some unknown cause , administered poison , in some subtle shape , to Margaret Fairfax , minor , and daughter of the well known and highly esteemed Mrs. Margaret Fairfax , in , and of the premises . 
cries Samuel Dale , overtaking the lad , for he , too , was returning home , the day being ended , and the working done . 
But Peter cried on ; he did n't feel that he was gravitating toward the star , apparently , seeing which , Samuel caught him around the waist , and hoisted him up to his shoulder , calling himself Peter 's horse , and running with him quite upon the trot . 
The tallow candle , with its wick a-lop , burned dimly in one corner of the cellar ; it was set in an old iron candlestick , and the candlestick was set on the head of an oaken barrel , containing vinegar , and beside the candlestick lay the old Bible and hymn-book , from which Samuel was used to read of nights . 
Samuel Dale trod softly as he came near , and took off his hat as he passed ; every manifestation of sincere love was sacred in his eyes . 
He went straight to the oaken barrel which he had converted into a sort of oratory , by trimming it with bright field berries and green leaves , opened the Bible and began to read to himself . 
It happened that Samuel was reading in the ninth chapter of Saint Mark 's gospel , and , as Peter requested , he began at the verse he had reached ; the seventeenth : -- `` And one of the multitude answered and said , Master , I have brought unto thee my son , which hath a dumb spirit ; and wheresover he taketh him , he teareth him ; and he foameth and gnasheth with his teeth , and pineth away ; and I spoke to thy disciples that they should cast him out , and they could not . 
So Samuel read the verses over , going on to the fortieth verse , when Peter interrupted him again . 
Samuel read : -- `` And John answered him , saying , Master , we saw one casting out devils in thy name , and he followeth not us ; and we forbade him , because he followeth not us . 
Samuel closed the book , and they read no more . 
It was an hour , after this that the child lying on his father 's knees cried out in sleep : `` O , father , mother wo n't give me my supper ! 
Then his voice sank , and he muttered something about Miss Lightwait 's shawl being lined with the skin of a double-bellied mink , and about his brother Luther , who he said was unscrewing the gold head from the preacher 's cane . 
Then he cried out sharply , and as if in great pain , that a hoptoad was gnawing off his arm , and he was afraid to tell any body . 
`` Why no , '' says Samuel , bringing his chair close to Peter and sitting down . 
And Samuel lifted the dangling legs and laid them across his knees , so the two men were holding the boy , together . 
Samuel brought the candle , snuffing it with his fingers by the way , and held it close to the shining blade . 
he asked . 
Then he went on with the examination of his face , removing the blade at intervals , and studying the face of the boy . 
says Samuel . 
And then he adds , `` Beg your pardon , Peter , for such a thought . '' 
`` Mr. Whiteflock , '' says Samuel , `` I would like to have a little plain talk with you , with your leave . '' 
Samuel hardly knew what to say , but without much hesitation , answered , `` Why , because she 's married to you , to be sure . '' 
says Samuel , promptly . 
Samuel blushed and remained silent for a time , but replied after a little , `` I take it for granted that a wife loves her husband . '' 
says Samuel . 
`` Most assuredly , '' says Samuel . 
`` That 's another question , '' says Samuel . 
`` I can readily understand , '' says Samuel , `` how it should bring out certain obscure qualities into bold relief . '' 
says Peter ; I never seen nothing which was relief belonging to it ; '' and then he says , `` You began by askin ' leave o ' me to speak plain , and now I ask leave for to speak plain to you ; the subject is one that ought to have but little said about it ; it 's things as they stand between me and your mistress . 
says Samuel . 
Here he proceeded to relate some of these freaks , premising that they were always put into his wife 's head by them that their disposition was n't good towards him . 
`` Perhaps such things are natural enough , '' Samuel said , doubtless shaping his answer to please his friend , rather than in accordance with his conscience . 
And then he added , `` You know in marriage , two are one , and it is quite natural to forget one 's self . '' 
says Samuel . 
says Samuel , interrupting him ; `` how so ? '' 
`` Well , hardly , '' says Samuel . 
He fumbled in his pocket and produced an iron key , rusty and big . 
`` An old bed-blanket , '' says Samuel . 
`` But there must be a chapter belonging to it , '' says Samuel . 
Samuel winced ; he was not quite sure that he did n't know just such a young woman . 
Samuel felt constrained to speak as nearly the truth as he might , and replied that from his standpoint , the marriage was not in full . 
`` No , '' says Peter , `` they say that you are right , '' glancing at Samuel . 
`` Thank you , good friends , that 'll do , '' he said , and then turning to Samuel : `` What furder I have to say concerns myself , exclusive , and my last will and testimony . 
Knocks resembling the others followed ; such sounds as one might make with one 's knuckles on some hard substance , only of a more hollow and fugitive character ; this time , however , they were about Samuel , and even on his person , insomuch that he stared about him in amazement ; he saw nothing , and turned to Peter . 
`` I 'm a-going to make him over to you , Samuel , him and Posey , and then I 'll be free for good and all , -- his mother will not object , -- he is like me , and she will not care to be reminded of me , when I am gone , and I shall not care to have her . 
Did you ever have a feeling in your sleep , Samuel , that some person stood by your bed ? 
In vain Samuel tried to persuade him that he was under some great delusion and near to lose his wits ; in vain he told him that he had dreamed a dream , that his midnight visitor had been all in his imagination ; he could no more move the steadfast faith of Peter than he could have moved a mountain ; besides , at every word of dissent a perfect tumult of ghostly sounds assailed him on every hand , so that in sheer despair of being heard , he was forced to suppress his skepticism at last . 
But Peter would have no evasion , and at last , to pacify him , Samuel gave the required promise , upon which , the look of wonderful beauty before mentioned came back to the sad , heavy face of the strange man , and he laid the sleeping boy on the strong arm of his young friend . 
He took up the bed-blanket , folded it very carefully , and put it away in the till of the chest , and having by this process diverted , and sat himself up , he returned to Samuel 's side with an apple , bright as gold , in his hand , together with some rude toys of his own manufacture . 
He spoke loud , and with a forced liveliness , and at the conclusion , bent down so that his face was away from Samuel , and untied and retied his shoes , `` Confound all shoe strings , '' he said , `` I never had a pair that they 'd stay tied ! '' 
And then he said he felt unusual happy . 
`` I 'd rather not do this , Peter , '' says Samuel ; `` you 've got so little as it is . '' 
And then he says , `` If it should happen to me to outlive you , I 'll take your boy into my house and heart ; you may make sure of that ; but Peter , just look at this arm . '' 
He had shoved back the sleeve ; the arm had swollen as big as two arms and was turned of a purplish black , mingled with angry red . 
`` What shall Samuel do for his boy ? 
Wo n't you tell him , good friends . '' 
Raps on the head of the vinegar-barrel , which Samuel had made his oratory , followed this question , loud and fast . 
`` Now , Samuel , '' he said , `` do as I shall direct , and that arm will be all right in the morning ; but one thing I enjine -- you must make as if you done it all yourself , and that nothing of it is owing to me . 
`` Very well , '' says Samuel , hiding a smile by ducking his face behind the boy , `` tell him to go ahead . '' 
says Samuel ; `` I shall like to see it ! '' 
Samuel turned now and looked at the wall where Peter looked , but he could see no red mill . 
says Samuel . 
`` See if it 's right , '' he says , handing it to Samuel , who turning it up and down , and this way and that , at last assented -- `` it 's the name , and no mistake , '' he says , `` and it looks like his writing too ! 
If it had been anything but Catwild , '' says he , looking at Peter curiously , `` I would n't have wondered so much ; '' and slowly and thoughtfully he unfolded the paper . 
demands Samuel , `` and mind that you speak the truth -- I 'm not in a temper to be fooled with , I warn you ! '' 
`` I would n't have believed , '' Samuel went on , `` that you would a lent yourself to such devil 's work ! 
`` I am no more to blame , Samuel , for what is writ on that paper than the baby unborn , unless so be that you blame me for having anything whatsomever to do for him that it 's writ for . '' 
`` Him ! 
Samuel remembered now that he was keeping a bad promise , all the while , and relented , a little . 
`` Well , then , you need n't call his name , '' he said ; `` it was writ for Mr. Lightwait , and its bearin ' is all agin me and agin an innocent child who is dearer to me than my life ; tell me only when it was writ , and why you writ it . '' 
The heart of the man was evidently in his words , and Samuel , going to the candle , read the paper . 
`` Yes , and the promise all in his , '' says Samuel , bitterly . 
Like all men who are in love , Samuel thought that every man must needs see with just his eyes . 
There was a good deal more talk between the men , in which Peter labored hard to convince Samuel that he did great injustice to the bishop 's son , but at every word he damaged his cause . 
`` I dare say , '' answers Samuel , with a sneer . 
`` Yes it is , '' says Samuel , `` crying out with a wilder and a hungrier cry ; and woe to him who comes between me and my rights . '' 
And then he tells Samuel what kind things he said about him the last time he saw him . '' 
`` I dare say , '' says Samuel , `` but he was just leadin ' you through ! '' 
says Samuel , holding up his hands . 
Samuel took the clumsy hand of the man in his , and said : `` Cheer up , Peter ! 
`` Before we part , '' says Samuel , `` I must give you one word of advice ; have nothin ' to do with these spirits , even admitting that they are spirits . '' 
`` I 'll do almost anything for you , Samuel , '' says Peter , solemnly , `` but not that , you must n't ask that , there 's times and places where no man has a right to come between another man and his Maker , where him and his conscience , which is God 's voice a-speakin ' low , must just have it out between 'em ! 
Samuel turned and looked at Peter in astonishment , perhaps that he should think anything so clearly , and directly he went on . 
Samuel had remarked just this filling out and holding up , in an accession of mental force and a less stammering and more definite utterance , had noticed also , more especially when he professed to see spirits , a finer and sweeter expression of countenance , but he forbore to admit the fact , shaking his head as in contradiction of it , and so shifting the subject . 
`` You have put great confidence in me to-night , Peter , '' he says , `` and in turn I will confide in you , for why should we be ashamed to speak of the purest and sweetest feelin 's , we are capable of . 
`` I was sayin ' , or was about to say , '' rejoined Samuel , `` that I love Margaret Fairfax with all my heart -- that I desire above everything to make her my wife ; to work for her , to live for her , to stand between her and harm , and if it must come , to take it on myself ; to be to her hope , health , sunshine , happiness , comfort through all things ; and all these I could ` a ' been , but for a saintly devil that comes between us . 
`` I do n't hope , '' says Samuel , `` I know what 's agin hope ; I 've seen it all along , and I knowed it before I knowed it , so to speak ; and now it appears that not content with his own cunning , he must needs come here o ' nights and seek to league himself with invisible powers . 
He was turning away , when Peter caught his hand : `` You wo n't forget your boy 's arm , '' he said ; `` you remember you are to cure it ! '' 
`` I forgot what stuff I was told , '' replied Samuel , in a sour fashion . 
cries Samuel , but as he went along the mead-path , he did it , for all that . 
What fell out during the interview , has already been shown ; why it came about , will , perhaps be more clearly understood in view of Samuel 's conversation with Peter , and the coming to light of the mysterious communication addressed to Bishop John . 
She laughed a little laugh that was foolish and feigned , and then she said , quite naturally , that she would send Samuel Dale to them . 
Her first duty was to visit Samuel Dale , and before she had broken fast she set out ; he was accused , forsaken , perhaps guilty . 
She must not desert him . 
She had no need to inquire where he was ; a stream of men , boys , women and children pouring in one direction assured her that she should find him directly by joining the procession , nor was she mistaken . 
`` I have nothing to say that you can not all hear if you choose , '' Mrs. Whiteflock said , dropping on her knees and taking the hands of Samuel up in hers . 
Samuel said at last , sitting up on the straw , his lip trembling , and his eyes with difficulty keeping themselves dry . 
The unexpected show of sympathy almost overcame him . 
Mrs. Whiteflock asked , dropping her eyes , for she feared to look in his . 
Samuel drew his hands away from her tender caressing , and with a strong effort gathered himself up , as it were , and then with a steady voice answered that it was true , and that he had only done what he would do again . 
She had seized his hand again , and turning it from one side to the other , gazed on it , and in it , as though she expected to detect the guilty spot , if it were there . 
Samuel shook his head and smiled mournfully . 
`` O , do n't Samuel ; do n't say so . 
`` Look at me , '' Samuel said ; `` I am not mad . 
Then he told her that she had better go away , that she could do him no good , and would only bring harm upon herself , by giving him sympathy , or even pity . 
cried Samuel , hiding his face in his shackled hands , and shaking from head to foot with a storm of passion . 
Then he said , returning the pressure of her hand , `` I wish I could tell you just how it all was , but no matter , it would do no good , they are all too much against me , it is not as it seems , that is all , but you could better afford to call me brother if you knew . '' 
she said , still retaining the hand of Samuel ; and then with great intrepidity , `` One would suppose that you , being unscathed as it seems you are , might have found your way here before this time , and so have relieved my friend from the false charges under which he has suffered quite too long , in my opinion ; so you see Brother Lightwait , that you have surprised me , no less than I you ! '' 
What her glossy silk and fine laces and soft ribbons had left undone , her spirited contest with the bishop 's son was perfecting , and through her influence a strong tide was setting in Samuel 's favor ; one stout fellow had even got out his jack-knife and was about to cut the rope that was twisted around the legs of the prisoner , and tied with knot upon knot . 
He touched Samuel caressingly on the shoulder as he spoke , and asked him in considerate and soothing tones if he knew him ! 
Samuel , who had been glowering upon him from under scowling eyebrows , replied haughtily that he did know him very well . 
Then he related some curious instances illustrative of that theory , and showing how dangerous it was to trust to the lucid intervals , and then turning to Samuel as if to point his moral , he addressed him in accents as soft and persuasive as one might use in speaking to a wild beast he sought to tame . 
he said . 
Probably his object was to provoke Samuel into the saying of some outrageous thing , or the doing of some dreadful deed of which he might take advantage , but the devil always knows his own , and helps them in ways beyond all mortal cunning to contrive ; such unexpected help came to the bishop 's son at this juncture , Samuel being condemned out of his own mouth . 
he cried , in a perfect frenzy of madness , `` God-a-mercy , I know you better than you think ! 
The color in his cheek had not changed one tint when Samuel had called him Bishop John , nor yet when he had spoken the maiden name of his mother , for though by the pronouncing of these two names he had been given to understand the whole nature and animus of the case , he was too adroit to make any outward sign ; for he comprehended , too , on the instant , how easily and naturally this to him strong proof of sanity on the part of Samuel could be turned to his most serious damage , no one but himself comprehending it in the least ; and , as will readily be seen , it showed on the face but as the gabble of a crazy man or a fool . 
Samuel might , if he entered into further conversation with him , explain himself , and annual all that had been gained ; Mr. Lightwait therefore not only refrained from conversing further with him , but at the same time discouraged all attempts to do so on the part of others . 
Meantime , rumors of Samuel 's absolute wildness began to circulate , and his enigmatical talk with Mr. Lightwait was reported with serious exaggerations and additions . 
Samuel , who had thrown himself back on his sorry bed , and covered his eyes with his arm , roused up on his elbow at this , his chains clanking as he did so , and shaking one finger at the clergyman , exclaimed with terrible earnestness , `` You lie , sir , in your throat and in your heart , and you know it , and God knows it ! 
He fell back again , the sweat standing in drops along his forehead , and his lips trembling and colorless . 
Seeing , or rather feeling , how the case stood , Samuel dragged himself to one of the windows of the shed , and thrusting out his head over that of a calf , which , slowly bleeding to death , had instinctively found an airhole , began to address the dissolving multitude : `` I ai n't crazy , good neighbors ! '' 
he cried ; `` I ai n't no more crazy than you are . 
whispered Mr. Lightwait , sighing and shaking his head . 
demanded Samuel , `` that I talk nonsense ? 
Samuel caught the last word : `` look at me , '' he cried , `` you that have hearts in your bosoms , and tell me if I look like a madman ! '' 
Hoots and cries and roars of derisive laughter interrupted him ; he had made a point against himself ; looks were certainly not just then in his favor . 
He had been under a heavy pressure of excitement for the last twenty-four hours ; had parted for good and all , as he believed , with the object of the strongest and most concentrated love of his life , and whoever knows such a parting , knows that it is like dividing the marrow from the bones , and the heart from the life blood ; he had spent the night sleeplessly , among bleeding and moaning calves and sheep , guarded as a felon ; and the fierce strife in his bosom , had dug lines along his brow , hollowed his eyes , and pinched his cheeks . 
Every minute , therefore , that Samuel hung balanced thus upon the window seat , made as a dead weight against him . 
He felt this , and in the effort to retrieve himself , made matters worse . 
he said , shaking his tangled locks , and pointing his long fore-finger at Mr. Lightwait , who stood a dozen yards away with folded arms and sadly downcast eyes ; `` that man is to blame for it all ; I do n't blame you , my friends ; things look agin me just now . '' 
and he went on : `` I know that as well as you do , my friends , and I know he 's got the upper hand o ' me , and I 'm bound to go under . '' 
Samuel began , but his voice was drowned by the interrogation -- `` How 'll ye trade yourself off , ha , Sam ? 
`` Shoot me , if you like , '' says Samuel , `` only take sure aim , that 's all I ask ; my life is n't worth anything to me . '' 
By this sort of by-play and side talk Mr. Lightwait managed to create and stimulate the very impressions most prejudicial to Samuel , while he appeared to be seeking his best interests . 
He kept himself conspicuously before him with the design probably to aggravate him to the utmost , as he did ; so that finally , when he said he must insist on the dispersion of the assembly , lest the lunatic might become suddenly enraged and harm some person or persons , Samuel fairly leapt from the window . 
`` By G -- d , '' he cried , `` I would make you words come true if I could get at your throat ! '' 
Then it was reported that Samuel had threatened the life of the preacher -- then that he had broken his bonds , and armed with a butcher 's knife and axe was cutting his way through all obstacles , and that probably fifteen or twenty persons , the clergyman among them , would be murdered outright . 
Samuel 's head sunk down lower and lower ; `` it 's no use , '' he said , `` you believe in him , and your all agin me , though he has stabbed me through the heart , and I am slowly bleeding to death . 
cried Samuel again , his face all buried in his beard , and his head broken down , as it were , upon his bosom . 
`` Brother Lightwait , '' she said , `` I ca n't think Samuel is crazy , and I beg you will use your influence in his favor ! '' 
`` He is not insane , '' she said , `` I am quite satisfied , let the tavern-keeper be called , and let us see what his testimony will be ; but whatever else may be said , here you are alive and well , and Samuel imprisoned and in disgrace , and I do hope you will be to him a friend in his hour of need . '' 
Wolf sprang to the ground with a fierce , belligerent growl , and looking up , her eyes rested upon Samuel Dale , but how changed from the previous night , when he had dropped on his knee before her , among the meadow flowers , and under the moonlight , radiant with the fervor of a sweetly sincere and honest passion . 
He was not come then with prying curiosity , -- not to insult her in her sorrow with cold advice or affected sympathy ; perhaps he did not know of her love for Samuel at all ; there was no reason to suppose he did , except that her own heart felt as if all eyes saw it through and through . 
He was himself suffering , and it somehow lightened her spirit to know that she was not set apart , and single in affliction ; and more than this , he was come to her as an equal and a friend -- as to a dear friend . 
He spoke of Samuel Dale , and of the hardness that was generally expressed towards him , and he gave Margaret to understand that that was what had so sorely touched his heart . 
It had seemed to him , all things considered , wisest and best that the tide should take its natural flow , for the present , for that it must inevitably ebb in a short time , and perhaps take a favorable turn ; at the worst Samuel would suffer nothing except it were some trifling restraint of person , and perhaps a little mental disquietude . 
But , after all , he was not quite satisfied , not perfectly assured but that it was his duty to go himself , with the party who had him in charge , to see and know that his instructions were carried out to the letter , and that nothing , either by word or act , was done that could aggravate his unfortunate malady . 
He trusted and believed that nothing of this nature would be done ; certainly not , if he could suppose himself possessed of any influence , as he had not failed to exert his poor eloquence to its very utmost , in his favor . 
Yet , somehow , his conscience was not quite easy , -- he might possibly have done or said something further , though he did not clearly see how ; there was so little of humanitary sentiment in the mob . 
Here he related his experience of the morning pretty nearly as it occurred , but how different a coloring he gave the facts ! 
so different that he appeared in the representation as the sweetest and most anxious of peacemakers . 
His visit to the butcher 's loft he recapitulated , and repeated his conversation with Samuel almost word for word ; he was insane past all doubt , poor fellow -- `` for instance , '' said he , `` though he seemed to recognize me , he at the same time called me Bishop John -- a name that nobody ever heard of -- very remarkable , was n't it ? '' 
He had forgotten that he had told Margaret about the `` communication '' purporting to be from his mother 's spirit , in which he was addressed by the same name , but Margaret had not forgotten it , and the coincidence struck her as very remarkable indeed . 
She said nothing , however , and he went on . 
Then he asked Margaret if she could see wherein he had failed of his duty , and begged her , if she were not satisfied with his conduct in the matter , to say so plainly , that he might make what amends it was yet possible to make . 
And somehow , in all this , he bolstered himself up , and took a sort of comfort , as though he had really spoken the honest truth and asked honestly for advice . 
He so made the truth he had mingled in cover all the evasions , sanctify all the -- shall we say falsehoods ? 
He would not , it is to be presumed . 
So there he sat , looking so meek , so patient under suffering , under wrong , almost , Margaret could not have the heart to find fault with him . 
She only hung her head aside and sighed , `` Poor Samuel , poor , poor Samuel . '' 
He seemed to enter at once into her feeling , and talked of Samuel apparently without the least reserve , and what he said appeared the more frank that it was not all in his justification , for as Margaret was forced to admit to herself , it was all just . 
He spoke for the most part in praise , and where he was forced to blame , with great tenderness . 
He would get the better , under skilful treatment , of this possession , and be with them again in a few days , he hoped , in his right mind . 
`` And do you really believe he will be with us again so soon ? '' 
and Margaret looked up hopefully in his face . 
`` Ay , I trust so , my darling child , '' he repeated , and took her again quite in his arms . 
Then he said , `` But for such freaks of fancy as I have told you of , he seemed lucid and behaved for the most part well enough ; the doctor is very encouraging , and we have all good reason to hope . '' 
She nestled to his side and began to prattle almost gayly of this and that , and to laugh as a child , at anything and nothing . 
Then quickly , and as if he were not quite pleased with her pleasure , he said there were , however , it must be owned , symptoms that justified the worst apprehensions ; his eyes had now a wild , wandering look , and now a glassy stare . 
Then Margaret asked him , dryly , if anybody doubted what he said , that he had need to bring other witnesses ? 
He looked upon her with gentle , sorrowful reproach . 
Now that the terrible scene is over , and as I sit here in the rapt serenity of your presence , it all seems like some dark deception , or dreadful dream ; to think that Samuel , our good , loving , great-hearted Samuel , should have accused me of theft , and have lifted a murderous hand against me ! 
This was the truth , and his pathetic utterance of it so affected him that the tears came to his eyes . 
With every kind word he spoke of Samuel he grappled her to him with hooks of steel . 
Was this , then , his object ? 
The reader knows as much as Margaret knew at the time , but it may be said , that if such had been his sole object , he could not have played his cards more adroitly . 
She lifted her face at last with such beseeching -- `` You said just now his symptoms justified the worst apprehensions -- do you , then , think his life in danger ? '' 
You say he is insane , past doubt , and yet you say the people are all indignant toward him . 
Now it seems to me if he is crazy they ought to pity him ; you say , too , that he is possessed , whatever that means , and that you think he will be well again in a few days , and back here amongst us , and then you intimate that his life is in danger ! 
And then she fell to sobbing and cried , `` O , what if he was to die ! '' 
The anger that had at first worked like madness in her brain , against Samuel , had burned itself down now and lay smouldering in black and bitter discontent , with herself , with everybody . 
She announced the time , which was not late to be sure , and said very emphatically that she was by no means tired ; the truth was , she wished and hoped to hear something further about Samuel . 
And still he kept his arm about her neck as he raised the position of the watch , then he praised her eyes -- he had never seen such light in human orbs -- why it reached quite across the church and struck him like an arrow every time he preached . 
And he drew the arm so tight that it brought her head quite against his bosom . 
She was frightened , and fluttered out of his arm so hurriedly as to alarm him in turn ; he well knew how to change the ruffled mood , however : `` By the way , Margaret , '' he said , `` we have strayed , somehow , far away from the central subject of our talk ; let us get back , if we can manage to tell where we were . 
`` You were remarking that the mob was unjust in being so incensed against Samuel if he were really insane , and you were right , but you know there is never any justice nor sense in a mob ; and do you know , I believe they were dreadfully disappointed and vexed to find that he was not really a murderer , and that there would be no execution , after all . 
Poor Samuel ! 
I wonder if he had any secret grudge in his heart against me before the insanity came on ? 
But it is not possible he could have had . 
Did you ever hear him speak of me , darling ? '' 
`` Not that I know of , '' Margaret answered promptly , but what she had said was not true and she could not stick to it , and added directly , `` O , yes , I remember now , I have heard him speak of you . '' 
`` And what said he ? '' 
`` You do n't remember what he said of me ! 
He spoke playfully , so that Margaret could not feel a right to be offended -- for which she was sorry ; so she answered , without apparent hesitation : `` What makes you think so ? '' 
`` Well , then , for instance , I suppose I could n't go to see Samuel if I should want to ever so bad ! '' 
I will take you myself ; I propose to visit him in a day or two , at any rate . '' 
And Margaret looked up in his face with such joy . 
`` Take , O take those eyes away , '' he cried , turning his face from her as if he were dazzled . 
His lips touched her forehead so lightly that it could hardly be called a kiss , and yet it admitted of no other intepretation . 
He drew her to his side again ; `` No darling , '' he said , `` pray do n't ask such a favor of your mother , not on Samuel 's account . '' 
Margaret 's cheek burned like fire , if he knew her mother 's dislike of Samuel , he knew her liking too ! 
So one way or another he contrived to keep her uneasy , or irritated , or both , all the while . 
`` No , do n't trouble Mrs. Fairfax , '' he went on -- `` I 'll borrow Mr. Timpson 's new dearbin , as he calls it , and that will answer nicely -- let me see , is it too late to call at his house on my way home ? '' 
He referred to his watch again and concluded that it would be too late -- `` but I will make it a point to see him the first thing in the morning , '' he concluded . 
and laughing , he held up his hand . 
And before she could prevent it , he had stript Samuel 's ring from her finger . 
And he examined the ring curiously , and then he put it on his own finger , saying it was of trifling worth in itself , and he could easily replace it if that were all . 
`` The gift of some school-girl , I suspect , '' he continued , still eyeing it . 
Margaret felt that Samuel 's precious gift was disparaged , and could have cried . 
He saw the uneasiness she could not conceal , and went on , `` if it is really the gift of a sweetheart -- a betrothal pledge , or anything of that sort , you may have it back ; I did not dream it was of so much importance . '' 
And he made as if he would return it , but did not do so , nevertheless . 
`` So you give it back to-morrow , it is of no consequence that you keep it to-night , '' Margaret said , with a great effort to appear indifferent , and covering the finger from which it had been taken from her own sight as though she feared that Samuel too might see from far away that it was gone . 
And he put his hand in hers , that she might satisfy herself of its safety . 
O , Samuel , it was well for you that as you tossed on your narrow lunatic bed that night , divided by your iron door from the sweet moonlight in which Margaret sat , that you could not hear her words -- that you could not see upon whose finger the ring shone . 
Of all things , he would have desired to look upon his little sweetheart , but in denial his prayer was answered in God 's own best way . 
Samuel 's place was vacant , at first , but directly Mr. Stake , the butcher , came in , as large as life , took the seat , and filled all the aisle with the trailing scent of his marrowfat . 
The confusion of young ladies whispering behind their fans , of old ones , in one another 's bonnets , and of young fellows under shelter of hands and hats , might , most of it , perhaps , have been referred to Samuel Dale , in one way or another , and Margaret felt her heart grow cold and bitter toward all who smiled as they talked . 
Upon this occasion , having mentioned that the sudden illness of the pastor prevented him from participating in the sacred pleasures of the evening , she went to prayer with sledge-hammer violence , and having crashed through the customary variety of supplications and invocations , she came to Samuel , whom she designated both as a madman and a wolf in sheep 's clothing that had lately stolen into their fold ; and then she thanked God for the almost miraculous preservation from his wicked wiles , of at least one of the precious lambs of the flock ; there was a general groan at this , and poor Margaret felt as if she were kneeling on stones . 
She could not get much comfort even from the thought of an interview with Samuel , for she thought that in purpose and intent he had committed murder ; she knew that he was not insane , or that all his madness was his love for her ; and that for his own sake it were better that all things should be as they were , just now ; better an asylum , than a prison . 
Had he suffered no scath , had he been rosy and rollicking , still among the sheep-shearers , it is not unlikely that she would at this time have steeled her heart against him ; but he was overtaken by misfortune , in disgrace , and his treachery was truth to her , and what will not a woman forgive for that ? 
Meantime , rumors kept coming in about Samuel . 
At one time , that he was mad past all hope , tearing his hair by handfuls from his head , his clothing from his body , and being dangerous , even to his keeper ; another time , that he appeared as sane as ever ; had denied all knowledge of the murder ; talked freely and intelligently upon all subjects ; and for his diversion had betaken himself to basket-making ! 
Still another report represented him as wild-eyed , sick and drooping , and as having muttered in his sleep of some bloody murder done long ago at sea ; and of a box of gold that was buried under one of Mrs. Whiteflock 's haystacks . 
If it had been her privilege to go to Samuel , to show forth her love by word or deed , it would have been such a mitigation of her grief , but no such privilege was accorded her ; and as for claiming it , she could as easily have set her feeble strength against the tide of the ocean . 
But to come at once to the head and front of my offending , I proposed to take her to see our unfortunate brother , Samuel Dale , of whom , by the way , I hear sad accounts . 
It seemed to me that it might gratify the childish fondness she appears to feel for him , and do no harm , but you , of course , are the best judge of this , and on second thoughts I have been led to distrust my first impulse ; but the little darling has a strange power upon me , and I could not see her suffering without at least seeking to relieve it . 
She had some fears , it is not unlikely , of the interview with Samuel , but hope was strong too , and she played for a high stake , and must risk something . 
`` O , dear , good Mr. Lightwait , he is going to take me to see Samuel after all ! '' 
`` So you are still a-tiptoe to see your Samuel ? '' 
`` Our Samuel . '' 
and Eve , you must know , embraced Adam as she said this ; you are not playing your part well , my dear , not at all . '' 
Just hear : -- `` But I did not come to hear Milton ; I came '' -- `` Ah , my little Eve , you came about your Samuel , did n't you ? '' 
`` My Samuel , again ! 
THE waves of the ocean do not succeed and obliterate one another more constantly and surely than do the waves of thought and feeling , interest and emotion , in the affairs of life ; and ten days were hardly gone since the arrest and imprisonment of Samuel Dale , for his confinement among lunatics amounted to nothing less than imprisonment , when the neighborhood was thrown into a new state of excitement by the report that a travelling show was giving exhibitions in the neighboring city , Cincinnati , and would , within a fortnight , at farthest , make a halt at Bloomington . 
Of course they were talking of Samuel ! 
said Margaret , directly , and still hoping to draw something forth about Samuel . 
The name of Samuel was not mentioned from day 's end to day 's end , the mother completely ignoring the relation which in her heart she knew existed between him and her daughter , since the affair of the apparition . 
In short , she took the very course best calculated to intensify the girl 's love for Samuel , and to set her against the bishop 's son . 
The general feeling of the neighborhood as she gathered from the spirit that always fills the air in reference to all questionable matters , was , that Samuel had met as good a fate as he deserved , and that the bishop 's son was a dreadfully outraged and injured saint . 
What business had the like of Samuel to lift his hand against the shadow of their bishop 's son , even though he were twice crazy . 
The truth being , perhaps , that nobody really believed him to be crazy . 
He had probably , under the influence of whiskey , become frightened at one of his own sheared sheep , and so taken to acting the fool generally . 
He was no credit to society any how , big and clumsy , and poor as a church mouse ; the latter being no doubt , the most fatal objection . 
Mrs. Whiteflock by her intercession in his favor had considerably lost caste , except it were with a small party of uninfluential people . 
`` Why , about Samuel , mother , and about Mr. Lightwait 's having been to see him . '' 
And here it may be remarked that the slippers being thus elaborately wrought had been actually commenced for Samuel , afterward transferred to Mr. Lightwait , in her imagination , and made over finally to Doctor Prosper Allprice . 
And then she says , connecting their names quite by chance as it would appear : `` Have you been to see Samuel within a day or two ? '' 
`` I 've lived in the house with Samuel , and ought to know something about him . '' 
And then she says that if what her husband has foreseen comes out true , Samuel will have a most respectable position in the neighborhood yet . 
`` And as regards Samuel , I never saw a nicer man about a house in my life , and I 've lived with a good many . '' 
`` Uncle Samuel Dale , '' says the boy ; `` do n't you know him ? '' 
He was so took up with you , '' he says , apologetically , and then he says little folks has big ears sometimes , and for a reason which it will all be understood in due time , he does n't want his boy to hear a word agin Samuel Dale . 
says Mrs. Fairfax ; triumphantly opening , when it was handed her , the book of Samuel , and turning to the twenty-eighth chapter . 
and he said , Bring me up Samuel . 
`` And when the woman saw Samuel , she cried with a loud voice ; and the woman spake to Saul , saying , `` Why hast thou deceived me ? 
Mrs. Fairfax glanced along the chapter and presently said : `` Saul did n't see Samuel with his own eyes , it appears , so we have only the witch 's word that he was seen at all . '' 
And Saul perceived that it was Samuel , and he stooped with his face to the ground and bowed himself . '' 
And then to Mrs. Fairfax , `` You must know , my friend , that Samuel Dale is a great favorite with my husband and me . '' 
`` O , be sure , '' says the father , taking up the loose change that was in the cap and counting it ; `` that is , if he gets home from the frolic he 's gone to , in time ; but where did you find all this money ? 
`` Do n't be alarmed , '' says Mr. Lightwait , patting her cheek , `` I have come to take you to see our poor Samuel , and I propose to carry out my intention , that is to say , unless your good mother and Doctor Allprice -LRB- for whose authority I entertain the highest respect -RRB- should set themselves bodily as well as wilfully against me . '' 
So , with your approval , we will postpone our call upon Samuel until the afternoon . '' 
He had been waiting some time , he said , but he manifested no impatience ; on the contrary , he was equable and quietly genial , as ever ; he only feared , he said , looking at his watch , that they might be too late to see Samuel ; the hours for admitting visitors expired at three o'clock , and it was near that time now . 
But , crowding them back , and demanding a place closer than any of them , was the image of him she had failed to see , for awake or in sleep , her heart was filled with the thought of Samuel . 
Should she ever see him again , and if so , what would he say to her ? 
She had no question as to what she should say to him . 
She would tell him that she loved him , let come what would . 
It was about ten days , perhaps , subsequent to the visit -LRB- which was no visit at all -RRB- of John Hamlyn to Samuel , that the brother and sister sat towards the close of the day on the piazza fronting the main road . 
He understood very well that she alluded to his visit to Samuel , but more especially with reference to Margaret . 
`` But I have been talking , '' says the stranger , standing up and changing tone and manner , `` wide of the purpose of my visit to your pretty town here ; do you happen to know whether a young man of the name of Samuel Dale lives hereabouts ? '' 
Here came out all the story about Samuel , which the reader may be spared . 
And then he said if p488-273 Samuel had suffered at the hands of the people thereabout , so much the worse for them . 
Then the stranger said something in an apologetic way about having known less of his nephew , in the past , than he had always desired to ; their paths in life had kept them separate , and then Samuel was to him , a mere boy ! 
The good news that made Margaret 's cheeks so red was all about Samuel , of course . 
And she got her hand out of his and clapped the two together , laughing and crying at once in a frenzy of delight . 
`` I should , indeed , be heartily rejoiced if this were proven true , but there are so many wild rumors concerning the young man Samuel that one does not dare to credit even the good ones . '' 
but made haste to say , leaning quite upon his knee in her innocent gentleness , and looking up in his face , `` O , but you may believe it , every word , because Mr. Hoops has been here , and he has seen the man that has come after Samuel , and he told me all about it , and the man is at the Eagle Hotel now ; he came to-night on the coach , and all the village is talking of it . 
Mrs. Fairfax expressed at first the most disdainful doubt , but the reported fortune outweighed every other consideration , and she presently turned a somersault , -- an easy thing for her to do , -- and came up quite on the side of Samuel . 
A nice young man he always was , and she had always said so , and if she had had her way the other day she would have contrived to see him somehow ; she would be the first to do so now , that she would . 
As for his little derangement of mind , it was a misfortune , and that was the worst that could be said of it ; some of the best people she ever knew had been subject to such fits . 
She would go immediately and write him a letter of congratulation ; he should know that he had not been deserted by everybody . 
Directly he said , `` You called me dear just now ; and if it had not been for Samuel 's sake you said it , it would have been very sweet to hear . '' 
`` Well , then , it is about Samuel I would speak . '' 
`` No , not in the least -- if you have anything to say against Samuel , say it out ; if you have not , say that , and in either case I shall be satisfied . '' 
If you refer to Samuel , allow me to say I have not even one ; he is no more mad than you are , sir ; not so much ! '' 
`` You have mistaken your word , '' interposes Margaret , looking straight in his face . 
Still Margaret was silent , and he went on : `` I am not blaming you , my dear ; I could not blame you for anything ; it is my misfortune , and not your fault , that I fail to make myself understood ; but , even against your will , I shall persist in my efforts to ward off threatening evils , of whatever sort , to shield and guard you in all ways , trusting to time and the purity of my motives to place me before you in my own proper light . '' 
The fingers of the hand he held twitched a little , but the hand was not withdrawn , and , holding it caressingly against his cheek , he went on : `` Yes , my darling child , I shall still strive with all my might to win your confidence , your love , and it is quite right that you should understand clearly upon what authority I seek these high privileges ; let me say , then , once for all , that by my instalment here I am for the time being constituted your shepherd ; an unworthy one , little Puritan , I own , but striving all the while to be worthier , and you are my innocent lamb , -- pardon me if I say wayward lamb , -- liable at any moment to stray from the true pasture . 
Margaret felt too plainly that all this was somehow pointed at Samuel , and with more zeal than discretion she began talking of him again in a rambling , disjointed sort of fashion , ending with a declaration of belief in his virtues , and the general elevation and nobleness of his character , at which her listener simply lifted his eyebrows . 
Thus irritated she went on to say that he was a martyr withal , but that she thanked Heaven that the time of his deliverance was at hand , and of the utter confusion of his enemies . 
There was a sort of fierceness in her defence of Samuel , which was the result , in part at least , of her own faithlessness to him -- her anger had burned hot against him at one time , and time and time again she had seen visions and dreamed dreams that were not in accordance with the single truthfulness she exacted of him . 
For the hour she half despised herself and half despised him for whose sake she had been thus unfaithful , and yet , through all , his fascination lost none of its power -- nay , it had gained power just in the proportion he had professed to resign hope . 
He spoke now in the dangerous vein -- `` If I keep my good resolution and maintain the silence I imposed upon myself in the beginning of our conversation to-night , '' he said , `` you must bear with me , my dear child . 
His voice grew tremulous as he finished speaking , and he hid his eyes away from her , not uncovering them even when she played the time to a tender little tune with her finger on his knee . 
At last he said , smiling faintly , `` What has your young life to do with my sad years and solemn reflections ? 
Now he is in a tenderer mood , thought Margaret , he will take back all that he has so darkly implied against Samuel , and stimulated by that hope , she once more made mention of him . 
She said this just because of her fear , for how could her confidence in him be perfect when he had spoken to her the words he had , and when she had seen him lift his hand against the life of a fellow creature ! 
`` And so you are sorry I will not talk of Samuel ? '' 
And then he said no man was ever more loth to credit evil reports of a neighbor than he , still it was well to bear in mind that Samuel was a comparative stranger among them , that very little was really known of him , and that that little was certainly not all to his credit , so that it would be the part of wisdom not to confide too much . 
If the attempt upon a life had been the effect of a temporary fit of insanity , he would be the first to receive back the poor fellow with open arms , although the life attempted had been his own . 
Here Margaret interrupted him -- `` he never did attempt your life , '' she said , `` how could he have done so when you yourself acknowledged that you did not cross the meadow , at all ? 
Your story does not hang together , at one time you make as though Samuel saw nothing , and must have been insane , and then again you talk as if he had almost murdered you . '' 
`` What I believe is this , '' says Mr. Lightwait ; `` he was insane , and his insanity conjured up something that he took to be me , therefore , his intent being murder , he is as guilty as though he had committed murder . '' 
No , no , he must not say another word , for in spite of all , he had still strong hopes of Samuel . 
`` We may yet see him a useful member of the community and of the church ! '' 
he said . 
Directly he said he was sorry that Sister Whiteflock , the very stoutest of Samuel 's champions , had been obliged to admit an unfortunate liability on his part . 
cried Margaret , catching his hand , as one in desperation catches at a straw . 
The fingers that had clutched his hands relaxed , the eager eyes lost their intense expression , and the whole attitude of the girl changed , as though half the life had gone out of her . 
He must have seen this , and yet he went pitilessly on . 
`` The sheep-shearers protest that on shearing day Samuel emptied more bottles than he sheared sheep . '' 
He held up his white hand -- `` My impetuous darling , '' he said , `` wait a little . '' 
He said no more , but it was enough ; the blood in her cheek whirled up to her brain and seemed to set it on fire , and she turned upon him all the more fiercely that she felt her strength to be nothing but weakness . 
`` A low set of fellows , as you say , my dear , but was not this Samuel one of them ? '' 
`` No , -- he happened to be among them , -- he was not one of them . '' 
`` And did he happen to lift his hand against the life of his pastor too ? '' 
`` If he did lift his hand it was bravely done and not to strike in the back . '' 
This was a home thrust , but Mr. Lightwait kept his tone down to the same low level , as he went on , `` You are fortunate in heing able to regard their accusations so lightly , for they do say that when he had emptied more bottles than he had sheared sheep , he turned his back upon his sweetheart ; but what he said of her thereafter is of such a nature that even your commands shall not force it out of me , though I would gladly obey you in all things . '' 
He thanked her for the sweet confidence and confession she had given him through her unrestrained emotion ; nothing in the world should have wrung from him the harsh words he had uttered , he said , if he had but guessed the extent and liveliness of her interest in Samuel ; he saw it all now , and had really been dull to stupidity not to see it sooner . 
It was not rating Samuel out of all mercy that would further his own interest just then ; that he understood well enough from the first ; and but for the news of his good fortune which pointed to his becoming a more formidable rival than ever , and but for the unfavorable comparison Margaret had drawn between them with reference to the open shot and the hitting in the back , he would certainly not have been betrayed into so deep a denunciation , and it is quite possible he would have spoken only in Samuel 's praise . 
But what was done was done , and he must get over the mistake somehow , that was all . 
At one time he said , `` He is wonderfully handsome , this Samuel of ours ; do you know I quite envy his manly breadth of chest , and those shapely legs upon which he stands so sturdily , to say nothing of the resolute cheerfulness he carries about with him ! 
Why it is just like breathing the freshness of some primeval forest , to be near him . 
And then the shining glory of his beard ! 
Woe 's me , but I am continually shamed and fain to hide my womanish face in his presence . '' 
Of his own personal knowledge he could say nothing against Samuel he was so glad that he knew nothing to say -- in fact he had been and was still his debtor for some obliging favors , and he had known others to be so ; but , after all , generosity was not incompatible with great weaknesses of character , and , as Margaret knew , Samuel had had neither educational nor social aids to stay him up , and was therefore liable to be more importunately beset by the emissaries of Satan than the man who wore stronger armor . 
He said at last , coming from realms poetic to things real and immediate , that , although he had not believed her when she said she never expected to be married , he had taken one thing for granted , and had been made very happy thereby ; he had taken for granted that she was not promised to Samuel Dale ! 
Margaret was silent ; in the first place she knew not how to understand him , nor what she ought to say , and in the second place she was half afraid of him , he was so much older , so much wiser than she ; the things that were pertinent seemed to her impertinent ; she was afraid , too , of outraging propriety , so she remained silent . 
With Samuel Dale she had always experienced a sense of security and protection , of quiet comfort and satisfaction with herself , but how different was it with this bishop 's son . 
And are you then promised to Samuel , after all ? '' 
And Margaret might perhaps have walked in and out of church before the eyes of this man to the end of her life , if she had walked only by the side of her mother , but to see her eyes glancing away from him to rest on Samuel Dale , filled him with jealous and uneasy thoughts . 
He would fain keep those wandering eyes fixed upon himself ; he would give direction to the soft fancies , his own being free ; he would bestow himself away in her heart , leading her by the hand , the while . 
Some sort of ownership he must have , but all his desires would probably have been compassed by this sort of one-sided relation . 
When he told Margaret , therefore , that it was a happiness to him to know that she was not promised to Samuel Dale , he did not misrepresent himself -- it was a happiness , but that he wished her to be promised to himself did not of necessity follow . 
he said , innocently repeating her question , `` Why , am I not your shepherd , to be sure , and you the most precious of the lambs of my flock ? 
He took her cheeks between his palms and gazed tenderly upon her , adding seriously , `` No , no , I am not so heartless a shepherd as that , I hope , but my simple duty would prompt me to keep you in green and pleasant pastures , to say nothing of higher and more Christian motives . '' 
He then said that he must express himself very inadequately , or he could not possibly be so often and so sadly misunderstood . 
A great deal more he said in the same strain , disparaging himself , but somehow causing Margaret to feel that she herself was all to blame . 
`` Our relation ought to be a very true and tender one , '' he said , stroking her hair with grave and clerical kindness , `` open , confidential , trustful , on your part , else I am only your shepherd in name , and utterly disabled from guiding you to any purpose . 
Perhaps he understood her as nearly as she understood herself , more nearly , it may be , but it suited him just then to misinterpret her . 
He thanked her for the confession and the confidence given him by this sufferance of her heart to speak for itself , and proceeded to offer her sympathy and consolation from the false basis upon which he had placed her , repeating in substance much of what he had already said in the favor of Samuel . 
`` Cheer up , my poor child , cheer up , I will go and visit him again , '' he said , `` and perhaps bring him home to you , if he is well enough ; at any rate , you may rely upon my doing all in my power for him . '' 
Then he talked of the prospective fortune . 
There was something in him beyond the common , that he had always said , but even though he had failed to see it heretofore , he must perforce see henceforth through Margaret 's eyes . 
He talked a good deal of her duty to her mother , who , he was sorry had felt obliged to deny herself to him that evening , but that she was acting most wisely he did not doubt ; her early congratulation would be a staff of strength in the hands of Samuel . 
Would Margaret convey to her , with his much love , the hope that the loss that he had sustained that evening would shortly be made up to him ! 
He then recommended certain religious books to Margaret , and intimated the hope that she would not forget in the brief frivolities of time , the solemn truths of eternity , concluding , with some allusion to Samuel and his hope concerning him . 
She , his child , his lamb , must be patient , trustful and obedient , for if she were otherwise he , being her shepherd , he added , playfully , should take leave to toss her over his shoulder and carry her whithersoever he would . 
And with this charming finale he kissed her lightly on the forehead and went away . 
He had defined himself as her shepherd and spiritual guide , and had promised to be a true friend to her and to Samuel . 
Why should she not take him at his word ? 
She said to herself that she would , and must , and did , and had ; that she could not ask more , and would not ask more than he had promised to be and was ; and so she wore the hours away , after the moonlight had slid out of her hands and out of her sight , knowing in her heart that , after all , and in spite of all , she did not and could not take him at his word . 
There had been times in her intercourse with this man when she had not been faithful to Samuel , out and out . 
All that she had said that night in Samuel 's behalf did not make amends to her conscience for all she had failed to say heretofore . 
He had never openly declared his love till their last wretched interview , be sure , and no faith had ever been pledged between them , still they were lovers , and a thousand declarations and pledges could not have fixed the fact more undeniably . 
He never told me he loved me , and never asked me to love him , and whatever I have thought or felt , said or done , I have been free to say and do . 
This was what she said in her poor justifications , but while she thus argued , she did not feel right with herself , nor guiltless toward him . 
His own generous confidence and unsuspecting honesty , together with the solemn sacredness with which she knew he believed in her , seemed to impose upon her a stronger obligation than any promise she could have given . 
Besides , she knew the crime of which he stood accused had been attempted for her sake , and what will not woman forgive so long as she can say , `` His treachery is truth to me . '' 
What with `` The Complete Letter-writer , '' frequent recourse to the dictionary , and by dint of using her mouth as well as her pen , she had indited an epistle to Samuel Dale that gave her pure satisfaction . 
In the first she made haste to congratulate him upon his happy inheritance , and to say that she had no doubts of his speedy and honorable release , that for her part she had never ceased to strive for it , nor to defend him from the first . 
Doubtless he would have friends enough now , but she trusted he in his great good sense would discriminate between old and tried friends and the shallow worldlings that were always dazzled by the glitter of gold . 
She told him she had written letter upon letter to him since the day he had been so wickedly forced from among them , but she feared , inasmuch as she had received no line in reply , that none of those ventures had ever come to his hand . 
She knew , indeed , they could not have done so , else his great , generous , truthful heart must have been touched by the unreserved pouring out of her own . 
Not satisfied with writing , and not repelled by his silence , she had made constant efforts to communicate with him personally , and had even succeeded at one time in obtaining access to the asylum in which he was -- odious prison , she characterized it . 
She acknowledged having treated him with seeming coldness , `` But O , Samuel , '' she said , `` my poor heart was beating with tenderness for you all the time . '' 
Then she told him that she loved him to distraction from the first moment she had ever beheld him , and she proceeded to remind him of certain early evidences of the supposed fact . 
Did he not remember the flower she had kept so long , and how she had always worn the ribbon he had once admired ? 
Her apparent coldness had been all assumed in retaliation for what seemed indifference on his part . 
`` But O Samuel , '' she said , `` I trust that seeming was not reality ! 
This , for the moment , she regarded as a complete triumph ; but directly an emendation occurred to her -- she would state accidentally that Margaret was the same as engaged to the bishop 's son , and that , being as it were , thrown altogether upon herself by this event , she could not longer restrain her heart , but must give it expression somehow , and where should she go if not to her own true love , Samuel ! 
The news of highest import being off his mind , the cooper comes down to Samuel and his prospects . 
`` Some , '' says he , `` have called him a wagabond ; I never did . 
And then , he says , `` By all accounts he 's goin ' to be rich enough to buy and sell all Bloomington , if he has a mind . '' 
And , finally , he says that Charley has been in town this two days , a-workin ' in Sam 's behalf , and that he will wenter a winegar cag agin two pins , that both Sam and Charley will be in the willage afore sundown ! '' 
At last he said , speaking in soliloquy , `` Samuel 's coming out brilliant , just as I foreseen , but I ca n't see one thing that I 'd like to see . 
`` Now the Lord pity us , and send us help , '' cries Mrs. Whiteflock ; and turning about in her anxious bewilderment , she stood face to face with Samuel Dale . 
`` O , my good friend , '' he says , `` has it come to this ! '' 
And he puts his strong arms round Peter , and hugs him to his bosom . 
calls Samuel , rising and beckoning towards the roadside . 
There was no introduction and no need of one ; he understood the matter at a glance ; dashed off hat and coat , and sending his elegant whip to the ground after them , had half Peter 's weight upon his arm in a moment , and so , with Samuel on the other side , they got him into the house , and up the broad staircase to the beautiful chamber , which the wife had with her own hands been setting in order all that day , as for some strange and honored guest . 
`` Now make all haste and fetch the doctor , '' says Samuel to the stranger as soon as Peter was laid upon the bed . 
`` Yes , '' says Samuel , replying in the same vein , `` he 's got a quick eye ; he 'll soon find you out , all of you ! '' 
`` Ay , Peter , '' says Samuel , gazing tenderly upon the wan face , `` if it had only happened sooner , and he hid his eyes beneath his hand . 
Then Samuel made as if he had been yawning , and took up a sentence in the middle as though concluding what had been broken off . 
`` You 'll like him , '' says he , `` everybody does . '' 
And then he explains to Mrs. Whiteflock that he was telling Peter about his uncle , and then he goes on in earnest , but talking much as if he were talking to a child . 
Samuel admits that his Uncle Charley was a little wild in his youth , and that he has heard said he married for money , spent it foolishly and then separated from the woman , leaving her penniless . 
Samuel says he does not positively know , but he is sure his Uncle Charley gave him that impression . 
When they were left alone again , Peter pulled Samuel down to him and whispered , `` It 's all right at last , Sam , between your mistress and me ; we was married in full , this morning . '' 
`` God ` a ' mercy , '' says Samuel , `` how glad I am ! '' 
He contrived to pay Samuel a good many compliments in one way and another , and it might have been noticed that in every instance he was careful to address him as Mr. Dale , -LRB- he had always been called Sam , or at best Samuel , till now , -RRB- and to pass over the hiatus of his absence with a facetious allusion , and quite as though he had been fishing or yachting , or upon some other enviable pleasure excursion . 
`` I am fortunate and happy in being able to leave my patient in such admirable care , '' he said , shaking hands with Samuel as he arose to go away . 
And then he said , `` See to it that our friend Peter is not gone hunting when I come to see him in the morning . '' 
`` The doctor is a dear little man , '' she says , when he was gone , and then she took her place by Peter 's pillow , and , as she chafed his hands talked cheerily of what they would do next month , and next year . 
`` Of course I 'll come home early , '' says Martha , pulling away , `` but do n't rumple my hair , '' and with a coquettish flirt of her petticoats she skipped away , without , as Samuel remembered afterward , having evinced one particle of natural , human emotion , from first to last . 
Peter slept quietly , barring some incoherent talk now and then , which was but the natural effect of the opium he had taken , as the wife persuaded herself , and at midnight Samuel prevailed on her to go away and take a little rest . 
`` I do wish the children would come , '' she says , going to the window and looking and listening , but all vainly , for some token of their approach ; and then she asks Samuel if he thinks the show can be open at so late an hour . 
`` Nothing more likely , '' he tells her , `` and of course they must stay and see the last of it ; old heads ca n't be put on to young shoulders , you know . '' 
`` There 's the last of the show , now , '' says Samuel , as the blast of the bugle rung along the midnight air . 
Tenderly she bends over him , and softly she draws the sheet across his arms , though the night is warm and he does not need the cover , and then , not daring to touch him lest she may wake him , she kisses the thin , faded hair that the wind is faintly stirring above the yellow , glassy forehead , and then , keeping her face away from Samuel , she steals on tiptoe from the chamber . 
He gazes after her in amazement ; she is grown handsome , he thinks . 
`` I only wish all this could have happened sooner , '' mused Samuel , glancing up and down the beautiful chamber , and pondering doubtless upon what might have been . 
Directly , he unbuttoned his waistcoat and took from an inner pocket a small parcel , neatly tied in tissue paper , with white satin ribbons . 
He looked at Peter to make sure he he was asleep ; looked about the room to make sure he was alone , and then , stealthily as it were , untied the ribbons and unfolded the paper , all his rough face brightening as with the outshining of some sweet secret . 
They were French , unmistakably , and of the fashion known as breakfast slippers , and the little high heels , shining buckles and rosettes of scarlet velvet were just so many separate charms in the eyes of Samuel . 
He felt of the soft linings of white kid , passed the smooth roses along his cheek , and finally kissed the toe-tips , and then renveloped and tied and put them away as they were . 
After that Samuel had kept the slippers very carefully under his waistcoat . 
As soon as the daylight broke he took his place at the south window , and with his cheek on his hand gazed and gazed towards the brown gable wherein was a little square window that had so often made a frame for the glad , girlish face of Margaret . 
What his dreams were we will not attempt to decipher , but doubtless all the colors of the rainbow were in them , for what can be brighter than a young man 's dream of love ! 
Samuel did what he could to comfort her . 
`` Many a steady , sober man has sowed his wild oats in his boyhood , '' says he , and then he went in search of Martha . 
he says . 
Then Samuel set his shoulder against the door , and in an instant it shivered off at the hinges . 
While they yet stood dumb with amazement , the smaller children clinging about the knees of their mother , or catching at the hands of Samuel and looking up helplessly in his face , a violent ringing of the door-bell summoned them below . 
All these people shook hands with Samuel ; congratulated him upon his good fortune , and contrived to make it appear , beyond question , that they , for their parts , had stood by him first and last . 
So Samuel came to think more and more that his late durance was solely and entirely owing to the bishop 's son . 
Among the rest Mrs. Fairfax came , ostensibly to condole with Mrs. Whiteflock , but it is certain she knew of Samuel 's being there . 
She knew , indeed , within an hour after its occurrence , that Peter had fallen down in a fit ; that Dr. Allprice was in attendance , and that Samuel was with him ; and she inferred that he would remain with him through the night . 
Samuel will still be with him -- conclusion second . 
Samuel had not replied to her love-letter , and the doctor 's affections , since his engagement , had certainly seemed remarkably disengaged . 
The final conclusion of Mrs. Fairfax was , on reviewing the whole ground , to write yet another letter , so ingeniously worded that she might slip it into the hand of either Dr. Allprice or Samuel Dale , as the prospects should seem to warrant . 
Her preference , just now , was pretty nearly an equal balance , indeed ; but if there were any difference , it was in Samuel 's favor , so much the more by the gold . 
Samuel shrinks away from her , and it suits her purpose just then not to seem aware of his presence . 
She can talk at him more effectively than to him , she imagines . 
Then she says , for she conceives it will be appropriate to the occasion : `` The Lord loveth whom he chasteneth ; '' and then she turns , and to her utter amazement recognizes Samuel , and , staggering forward , falls quite upon his shoulder in the bewilderment of her surprise and pleasure . 
Of course she had said all she had about Margaret with special reference to him , and in order that he might understand , once for all , how useless was the prosecution of his love for her , and how properly and wisely he might transfer his affections to herself . 
To prevent her coming to the ground , Samuel did actually put his arm about her , and once having the advantage , she kept it by main strength , and took care to draw all eyes upon her by the obtrusive tenderness of her behavior . 
She fondled his hands , pulled his hair , whispered in his ear , and alternately petted and scolded with the privilege of very tender and intimately established relations . 
At last , when she got strength to stand alone , she took him by the shoulders and turned him about ; how handsome he was grown , to be sure ; did n't everybody see it , or had n't everybody her partial eyes ? 
Then she tied the knot of his cravat anew , and told him he was a bad , careless fellow , so he was , not to pay more attention to his cravats and things . 
`` By the way , Samuel , '' she says , `` I had something very important to say to you ! 
and so gathering up her outer dress over the frills of her petticoats , she makes him a little courtesy , and pushing Samuel before her , vanishes from view . 
`` Ah , Samuel , you have broken my heart by your cruel neglect and slight of me ! 
says Samuel , turning away his eyes , `` as if I wanted to strike you , or touch you any other way ! 
cries the widow , hiding her eyes upon his arm ; `` but , to prove it to you , let me show you what I have written for you , just for the relief of my own bleeding heart , and not in the least expecting to send it to you . '' 
Samuel shook his head ; `` I do n't want any love-letters , '' says he , `` unless they 're writ by little Margaret , and you know that very well , and I wo n't be put off , neither , by any of your insinuations about the bishop 's son . 
Mrs. Fairfax was a good deal discomfited , but , not willing even yet to accept defeat , does her best to force the letter upon his notice . 
Samuel shut his hand tight , so that she could not get the letter into it . 
`` Them are strong words , '' says Samuel , `` but the same words have different meanin 's , accordin ' as they 're spoke . 
And so , he went away from her . 
And then she slips the letter into his hand . 
And then she adds , having stolen her idea from Samuel , `` What are words , though , poor words , unless my pulse was beating in them , and my heart bleeding through them ! 
Directly Peter tells his wife that about daylight that morning he woke up , and at first saw only Samuel sitting at the south window and gazing apparently at Mrs. Fairfax 's house , but that directly he became aware of another presence , that of the celestial woman who had come to him so often of late . 
`` She was sitting just as you are , Martha , '' he said , `` and with her soul speaking to my soul told me what had happened to us through our children . '' 
On returning home to her house she found Margaret lying on her bed , sick , and ready to die -- so she said , poor child ; and what should she do but send straight for Samuel Dale . 
`` Come , my dear son , '' she wrote in her note to him , `` come with all haste , and bring a clergyman if you will . 
This last sentence , she concluded , would have no weight with Samuel , and she rewrote her message omitting it , and adding in its stead , `` I write by the bedside of the dear child whose last wish I perhaps obey in sending you this . '' 
`` Do not come back without Samuel ! '' 
She did not seem to evoke it , but somehow , the thought of Samuel 's money slid into her mind close beside the prayer . 
Her heart sank down within her ; would Samuel not come , then ? 
`` That is his step , '' whispered Margaret directly , `` go , dear mother , go and welcome him . '' 
There was no need that she should say whose step -- the mother understood , and having hastily concealed the charming letter , went to the door , and there , sure enough , was Samuel . 
Wolf had been before her with his welcome , and was half upon the ground , and the other half upon Samuel 's shoulder , making a little mumble of joy against his face , and holding him round the neck with both shaggy paws . 
If the cooper had reported strictly , he would have said that Peter was sitting in his garden , -- not walking , -- and if he had taken pains to inquire he would have found that he had not walked at all , and could not walk , but that he had been wheeled out into the sunshine by his faithful friend Samuel Dale , -- wheeled out , when the day was at the warmest , to look upon the fading face of things which he felt to be fast vanishing from his sight . 
Samuel Dale , as may be supposed , had contributed his share to the gossip of the fortnight ; he had been generally received back with open arms , because of his heirship , it is to be presumed , and not because of himself ; but there were , as will always happen , some that were disaffected , and foremost among these was the bishop 's son . 
He made pastoral visits with a zeal that had never actuated him till now , stirring up all hearts , as much as he might , against Samuel . 
And Samuel was understood to be the pointed object of both these discourses . 
But she made excuses . 
Peter was sick and required all her attention and care , and when he still entreated , she said that she feared that she had hitherto had more zeal than good works . 
But he would not let her off . 
A wrong doer was to be dealt with , and how could she evade her Christian obligation ! 
Then she answered , `` Let him who is without sin , cast the first stone , '' and so went carefully and quietly about her house , teaching her children , attending Peter , and as far as might be , maintaining the general peace . 
`` I was querying , John , '' she said , looking at him at last , `` as to whether your virtuous indignation would be so aroused if the offender were another , and not Samuel Dale . '' 
And every day of those two weeks Samuel had been at Mrs. Fairfax 's door , morning or evening , sometimes both , to inquire about Margaret , and to fetch her something that might show her he still held her in tender remembrance ; now it was a basket of fruit , now a bunch of flowers , and now , perhaps , a young pheasant , or wild pigeon . 
`` You see I have my room filled already , '' and she pointed to those given previously by Samuel , classing this precious thing among them , as of no more value . 
And while she was thus proudly pleased , her vanity getting the better of her judgment , for a bishop 's son was a bishop 's son after all , the ascending star of Samuel was going under the clouds . 
Mr. Lightwait , when he had pettishly tossed the fine flower from the window , made haste to see the elders of the church , and in the end succeeded in getting an evening set apart for the discipline of Samuel Dale . 
This done , he caused Samuel to be formally notified of the meeting , and admonished to be then and there present to speak for himself and show cause , if cause existed , why he should not be ejected from the membership of the church . 
She had seen Samuel again and again ; he was going to be rich , and would no doubt be more than reinstated in the old place ; and he loved her , past all peradventure , and yet , and yet she was not all satisfied . 
All at once , and unobserved , he stood before her , stammering , with side-long glance , some apology which she , in her surprise and confusion , felt rather than heard . 
His arms were full of flowers , and his happy heart beat a brightness up into his face that shamed his flowers as he drew near her and strewed them , with down-cast , bashful eyes , along the snow-white coverlid . 
`` Dear , dear Margaret , '' he says , in low , tremulous tones , `` at last -- at last . '' 
Margaret put aside his serious meaning with a little light laughter and clapping of her pretty hands . 
`` Then it is fit for you , '' says Samuel , `` for you are my queen of girls . '' 
And as he said this he shied away , turning his face quite from her . 
She was vexed with him now . 
and she tossed him a handful of roses . 
Thus challenged he came to her . 
He had taken her head in his arms , and drawing her close to his heart , bent tenderly and kissed her hair . 
`` No , no , '' she cried , laughing and getting out of his arms , `` but that is no crown at all . 
Then he sat down on the low bedside and began knotting together the leaves and flowers which she put into his hand . 
Sometimes , as their hands came in contact , he would keep hers for a moment , conveying by a kiss of the rosy fingertips , or by a little tender pressure , the tenderer meanings which , somehow , he dare not speak . 
Then she would scold him for spoiling a bud or blossom , or perhaps playfully snatch the wreath under pretence of instructing him . 
He could not answer her back in that vein ; he could only acknowledge that he was awkward and clumsy , and say that his hands were better used to the grubbing hoe and the axe . 
`` I would n't do anything , darlin ' , not for the world , that displeased you ; not if I could help it , '' says Samuel ; `` but as I told you once long ago , I am always a-standin ' in my own light . '' 
Then Margaret would contrive to divert him from himself with a thousand pretty , pleasing nothings . 
he says at one time ; `` they are my favorite posies , you know . '' 
`` I 'm afeard that is true , Margaret , '' answered Samuel , sadly . 
Then she taps his cheek with her rose-buds , and says lightly , `` So you 're afeared ! 
His eyes fixed themselves upon her face now , full and steady , but she glided out of their reproachful light back to the daisies . 
Then she tells him that she likes them too and come to think of it she does remember that he used to gather them for her , and praise them , too . 
and she leans quite across his knee to stick it in his button-hole . 
He was radiant with delight . 
`` I always loved 'em , '' he says , `` but more than ever since I saw you , for somehow they make me think of you ; and you do n't mind I told you so once ? 
`` I certainly do n't remember the gown , '' says Margaret , and she clapped her hands and laughed , delighted that he had refused to obey her . 
She had the long flower-chain in her hands , and still leaning upon his knee she bound it about his arms , and called him her prisoner . 
`` To be sure , Samuel , I will promise you anything , '' she says , `` if you will only go away now . '' 
Then she pushes him from her and tells him that he is spoiling all her pretty flowers ; `` not another moment , Samuel , not one ; it is so late and so dark ; come , I will kiss you if you will only go . '' 
But Samuel was solemnly in earnest , and would not be thus lightly tossed from her hand and caught back at her pleasure . 
`` I have a right to be here , '' he repeated , `` a right that you yourself give me ; do n't you remember , my darlin ' , when I carried you to this chamber , that is to me just as sacred as the church ; carried you in my arms and laid you among these pillows ; then it was that I lost my heart to you , and then it was that you give me back yours in turn , for your soul come up to your eyes and told me so . 
She knew the purity of his love ; knew that all his thoughts were as clean and as white as the snow , and she could not choose but tremble . 
cries Margaret , drawing away from him , as it were in fright . 
She could not give her hand without his ring on it , and then , perhaps , if the full truth were known , she wished just once more to see Mr. Lightwait . 
says Samuel ; `` for if it is a trifle , why , let it go . '' 
and Samuel sighed as though three days were an eternity . 
Then she told him , still making it a light matter , that it was not all between herself and him ; that it was just between herself and herself ; '' and she entreated him to say no more about it . 
says Samuel , with saddest seriousness . 
`` That is but an evasion , Margaret , '' says Samuel ; `` I do n't know what he could have to do with it ; that is what I want to know ; but that he has something to do with it I am more than afeard . '' 
Then Margaret called him Mr. Wisdom , and said if he was so sure , she did not see why he should ask . 
But it was hard to carry it off with any amount of assurance , playful or evasive , and her confusion could not be concealed when he asked again , point blank , if Mr. Lightwait had not something to do with it . 
Samuel did not heed this petulance , but went straight on . 
Upon this Samuel said that he did not refuse her anything that it was in his power to grant , and that he would dare say she was all right and he all wrong ; that he knew , in fact , he had no right to ask her to love him just then , `` for may be , '' says he , `` when I see you again I shall be an outcast from the church and in disgrace with all men ; there are them , them that you believe in , too Margaret , that are moving heaven and earth against me . '' 
Then he told her about the meeting before which he was summoned . 
`` I have n't , '' he says , `` as you well know , the learnin ' nor the eloquence nor any of the advantages that will be brought to bear against me , and the chances are , that I shall be overborne and put to shame , and then my Daisy , I should n't have the heart to ask you to love me . 
And then he said , `` If the worst should come , I will never seek to see you , for at the best I am not good enough for you , but be it as it may , I have one favor to ask of you now . 
`` Let them say what they will , '' she whispered , `` let them do what they will , even though it be to put you out of the church , it can make no difference with me , for I love you and you know it , my good Samuel . '' 
The adjective was , somehow , a little patronizing ; perhaps Samuel felt it to be so , for he answered , still more downcast than before , `` I a ` most know it , Margaret , but I do n't feel just satisfied , and somehow the old shadder comes between us to-night . '' 
Margaret understood very well that her evasion had contributed not a little to the shaping of this shadow , and her heart reproached her as he sat there so broken down , so loving and lovable before her . 
She could not bear to part with him thus , and of her own free will she told him that she would answer his question about her little secret then . 
Samuel brightened wonderfully at this . 
he said . 
Margaret gave her hand , still looking straight in his eyes as innocence could look . 
He felt along the fingers . 
`` Not this , the other hand , Margaret , '' he says . 
He took each finger up separately . 
And Samuel spoke as if a stone had been rolled from his heart , and with reverent trust he kissed the little hand again and again . 
She told him how sick she had been , and how slender her finger had grown , so that the precious ring would slip off in spite of her . 
And then she kisses him again , and calls him the best , most generous , loving and trusting of men . 
`` Yes , darlin ' , be sure to wear it when I come again , '' says Samuel ; it is a poor little thing in itself ; I could buy you a much finer one now , but none that I should prize so much ; I bought this with the earnin 's of hard work , the first money I ever had to call my own ; and I would not have parted with it , except to you ; it seemed to have my very life blood in it . 
Even yet Margaret might have confessed , and all would have been well ; but her nature lacked the purity of his ; lacked the purity to appreciate his , at its worth ; and she braved it out with her lie , even showing petulance and impatience when Samuel went on to say , `` Who knows what may happen before I come ! 
Directly he talks of the church meeting and says , `` Can it be that thatis so like a shadder before me ? '' 
He drew her cheek down close to his heart . 
my wife that is to be , '' he said , `` let us make a covenant , now and here , that we will be truthful to p488-360 ourselves , to one another , to the world and to God . 
When he was gone , Margaret hid her face in her pillow , ashamed , though she was alone and in the dark . 
I should n't mind myself to bear witness to that effect ; there 's your uncle Catwild , for instance , I am sure he was crazy when he cut me off as he did , and left the fortune all to you , you young rascal ; or , if you prefer it , you might plead a drop too much -- just a gentlemanly foible , you know -- nothing damaging in such a confession , and with the expression of a little judicious penitence you are sure to come off with honors , and , '' he added , slapping Samuel on the shoulder and speaking with triumphant gayety , `` marry the girl and live happy forever afterwards ! 
answers Samuel , standing back and gazing upon the man with solemn severity , `` you must n't talk so light ; I know you do n't mean it ; but I do n't like to hear it , even in jest . 
`` I ai n't so good as I ought to be , '' says Samuel . '' 
Mr. Lightwait and all who sided with him were pleased , on the whole , with the arrangement ; it was quite like a hall of judgment ; no private room could have been so effective ; the great glass chandeliers , trembling and shimmering in front of the pulpit , were thought by some to be enough of themselves to strike awe into the heart of poor Samuel . 
Was Samuel Dale in the house ? 
had anybody seen him ? 
Would he speak for himself , or would his great relative , Mr. Gayfeather , speak for him ? 
When the prayer was concluded , and all had gotten their seats again , and while the expectant hush , solemn to awfulness , pervaded the house , a firm , steady step rung over the door-stone , and Samuel Dale came in , and inclining his head reverentially , passed the good people before him , and took his place , not boldly , nor ostentatiously , but as one having authority , for all that , on one of the upper steps of the pulpit . 
Mr. Lightwait arose involuntarily , no doubt with intent to rebuke his audacity ; but when Samuel turned calmly , meeting his eager , questioning look with one of sad serenity , he sunk back among the sofa cushions and veiled his face , waiting like the rest . 
Samuel , as it was seen at once by his conspicuous position and the full glare of the chandeliers , had made no attempt to display his newly-acquired riches , but was dressed in the plain , decent way they were used to see him , his Sunday best , to be sure , but the old Sunday best of homely homespun . 
He wore no ornaments except his beard and hair , and these his late confinement from the fierce sun and rough winds had served to beautify , so that they were ornaments of exceeding fineness . 
His linen was as fresh and bright as new snow , and the broad , old-fashioned collar showing under the locks that fell quite upon his shoulders became him wonderfully well . 
His face was pale , for he had come from fasting and prayer , and his great eyes were lit up with the fires of an intense soul , so that as he looked over the vast assemblage , every man and woman felt as if he or she were specially singled out by their still , far-reaching splendor . 
The prayer was brief , and all alive with faith and fevor ; it did not pre-judge nor predoom , but left Samuel where it found him , in the hands of our merciful Father . 
`` Not yet , it is not time , '' Samuel answered . 
He had only spoken a word or two when he was thus interrupted , and he now began again . 
`` My brothers and sisters , '' he said , `` I stand before you accused , by some among you , of murder , or the attempt to murder , which is no better than murder as far as I can see , for the Bible tells us that our wicked deeds are done in our hearts before they are done by our hands ; and what I have to say first of all , is , that I ai n't guilty of this thing , neither before you nor before God . '' 
A murmur ran through the house at this , and there were some open exclamations to the effect that he must not go too far . 
But as soon as he could be heard , he again went on with the same calm confidence as before . 
`` I ai n't guilty of murder , nor of intent to murder , '' he said , `` but I am guilty of a rash action and of rash and wicked behavior afterwards . 
`` I came among you a stranger , '' he went on , `` and was took into the church through your goodness , and I leave it to you all to say if there was anything against me till this accusation was brought ? '' 
Responses of `` No , no , thank God , '' from half the church , and then he said , casting his eyes upon the ground and his voice vibrating as if his heart were all of a tremble , `` I said I come among you a stranger and was took into the church . 
`` This bishop 's son accuses me of attemptin ' his life , '' says Samuel . 
Mr. Lightwait made haste to withdraw his proposition , a verdict was rendered in favor of Samuel , and the general feeling was that he had the advantage . 
`` No , I am not here to bring charges against our pastor , '' Samuel went on , `` I leave them to his conscience , and will only say that my heart could not be crushed in his hand as it was , and continue to beat for him warm and kind as ever , for my brethren and sisters , though I 'm a professor , I follow my Master but from afar off , and often when I would do good , evil is present with me , and when I would think right thoughts , bad ones slip in and crowd the others away . 
Samuel paused a moment , and went on . 
`` As I believe , '' he says , `` those so called apparitions are sometimes demons , sometimes angels , and sometimes men ! '' 
Samuel paid no heed to this interruption , but drawing the Bible from its cushion , opened it , slowly and calmly turned the leaves in silence until the attention of the people was again secured . 
`` It was , '' he says , `` as you will none of you , my good friends , doubt , a real angel that appeared to Peter . '' 
He stepped up one step higher so as to bring the page under fuller light , and read : ``` And when Herod would have brought him forth , the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers , bound with two chains ; and the keeper before the door kept the prison . 
The house was deeply silent now , so that as Samuel turned the leaves of the Bible , every one could hear the little rustle they made . 
`` To Paul , '' says Samuel , `` it was a man , and not an angel that appeared , '' and he again read : ``` And a vision appeared to Paul in the night ; there stood a man of Macedonia , and prayed him , saying , Come over to into Macedonia , and help us . '' ' 
`` The matter I had in hand , '' says Samuel , `` was to prove just what I have proved by an authority that none of you will question , but there is evidence enough this side of what you call the day of miracles , of just such appearances as I have seen from time to time all my life ; you all have read how Luther threw his ink-stand at the devil , and how the father of the very founder of Methodism was haunted in his parsonage at Epworth . '' 
Upon this declaration there were such disturbances in the house that for some time Samuel could not go on , and two or three old women showed their contempt for him by leaving the room . 
There were no actual hisses now , but the spirit of hisses prevailed , seeing and feeling which Samuel proceeded to prove what he had only intimated , by reading from the `` Armenian Magazine '' an account of the disturbances at Epworth Parsonage , compiled by Mr. John Wesley , who visited Epworth in 1730 for the purpose of examining for himself the journal of Samuel Wesley , describing in detail the various phenomena that occurred in his house there in the months of December , 1716 , and of January , 1717 . 
The full account is too long to be transcribed here , and , at any rate , the effect produced by the rude eloquence of Samuel then and there upon an audience to many of whom the account was wholly new , could not be even faintly reproduced by the printed words . 
`` What I have to say , '' said Samuel , as he closed the book from which he had been reading , `` is this : If so good a Christian as Mr. Wesley was tempted to fire a pistol at a ghost , why should not a poor sinner like me be tempted in the same way ? '' 
He then said that being in the fields one night , he was met and mocked by an apparition , and that , having been wrought up to a high pitch beforehand , he was tempted , as a better man had been before him , to fire upon the thing , which he took to be only the double , or shadder , so to speak , of Mr. Lightwait , and not Mr. Lightwait himself . 
`` Just why I done this rash deed , '' says Samuel , `` I need not explain , further than I have already explained , but that I had no thought of murder in my soul , God , who is my judge , knoweth . 
Then turning to the congregation , the tears dropping from his eyes , and his voice trembling and tender as a woman 's , he said , `` To you , my friends , under God , I commit myself and my offence , asking your prayers for me against the power of Satan , and hoping and praying that when you shall have gone aside , and talked between yourselves , you shall be found saying , as did those of old , `` This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds . '' 
Mr. Lightwait now arose , pale , placid , grave and gracious as ever , but the joyous tumult was so great that no word of what he said was heard , and the only resource left him was to pronounce the benediction , which he did , then making haste to give his hand to Samuel . 
No one in all the house seemed more rejoiced than he , at the way things had gone , and when at last the shaking of hands was over , and the congratulations done with , he completed the general joy by taking the arm of Samuel before them all , and walking with him out of the house . 
What he felt , the reader may guess as well as I , but what he said was of the sweetest and kindest . 
But as for Samuel , his great heart was melted and glowing with love , through and through ; it was not in him to cherish a hard thought toward any man just then . 
Was he not the victor in all the battles ? 
The church by acclamation had accepted him . 
Fortune had opened her arms and was smiling , and last , and best , his little love , his Daisy , was waiting to be his before the world , as she was already in secret . 
he said , when they were come to the gate of the parsonage , `` I would share my joy with you if I could , for I have more than I deserve . '' 
He held the hand of Mr. Lightwait hard , as he said this , and by voice and gesture and everything , showed how sincere , how almost sorrowfully sincere , the generosity was . 
says Samuel . 
`` With all my heart , '' says Samuel , `` what is it ? '' 
Samuel took the ring and held it up in the moonlight ; but there was no need that he should hold it up in the moonlight ; he knew it as soon as his fingers touched it . 
he asked , and his voice came up like the voice of one who is speaking low down in a grave . 
`` O , I hardly know , '' says Mr. Lightwait , in the most trivial tone , and then he says , `` Ah , yes ; I remember now ; '' and then he tells Samuel , aggravating the treachery , if it could be aggravated , `` She gave it me the very night they carried you off to the wretched prison -LRB- all against my will -RRB- ; I remember that I found her sitting on the door-steps , and that she told me she had just seen you go along . 
He glided away through the moonlight , and Samuel , when he was out of sight , staggered forward like a drunken man , putting out his hands as if he were holding by the air . 
That night he did himself in the shadows of the thick woods , and with his face half buried among the dead leaves , moaned out his anguish to the dumb , pitiless ear of our ancient mother , the earth . 
The next day Margaret looked for Samuel in vain , and the next , and the next ; but never again , in all the days of her life , if she had known it , was the glad sunshine of that honest , truthful heart to make light about her any more . 
How could he believe in her love when , with the very declaration of it , she had deceived him with so cruel a lie ? 
`` What have you been doing , my good Samuel ? '' 
cries Mrs. Whiteflock , as he appeared before her at last , the great sweat-drops standing like beads along his colorless forehead . 
`` Laying up my treasures where moth and rust doth not corrupt , '' he replied , and nothing more was ever said between them with reference to what had happened . 
He gave himself entirely to the care of Peter now , and would tend his wants by the hour , and seem to find great comfort in his work . 
The gathering shadows were to Samuel like voices calling out of other and better lands , and so far from breaking down under the numerous burdens that were laid upon him , he was continually buoyed up by steady and constantly increasing accessions of spiritual life . 
The ravelled web of his earthly pleasures was , as it were , knit up by the hands of angels , and the green branch , broken from his tree of life , let in fresh light from heaven , insomuch that all who saw him remarked a sudden growth of all excellent qualities , a growth upon himself , -- a larger and higher manhood . 
Sorrow has her orders in this world -- an order of nobility as well as an order of broken hearts , and it was to the former that Samuel attained . 
The bitter wave of his fortune had borne him higher than he could have climbed of himself , and receding had left him there alone , but with feet planted on a rock , and with faith and hope anchored in heavenly , instead of earthly love . 
No tinsel star , no foolish fluttering ribbon for him -- he was of another order of nobility now -- of that order which God himself ordains , and which is above all the fleeting shows and vanities of time . 
`` A light from heaven , '' says Samuel , `` above the brightness of the sun , and against it my sins show black as night . '' 
`` I wish that you could get into it , '' says Samuel , `` and that is the best wish I can wish you . '' 
It was , of course , Samuel 's purse that excited this question , and that had called forth the grateful exclamations preceding it . 
`` I do n't know , '' says Samuel , `` and no matter , much or little , it is yours . 
Then seeing how anxious , how sadly concerned for him , Samuel really was , he hastened to change the subject , saying carelessly , as he tucked the beautiful silk purse in the pocket of his waistcoat , `` You could n't make a thing like that out of a sow 's ear , could you , Sam ? '' 
Samuel made no answer . 
he went on . 
and then Samuel said that his good Brother Peter was nearing home . 
Samuel groaned . 
he says . 
He rose up , laughing : `` I believe you think me little better than one of the wicked , '' he said , and then slapping Samuel on the shoulder , `` I 'm not so good as you are , I 'm free to own that ; '' and here he offered back the purse ; `` I ca n't take it from you , Sam , indeed I ca n't . 
But Samuel would not receive the purse . 
`` It 's yours , '' he said , `` make good use of it , and do n't try your hand , as you call it , never , never again , as long as you live . '' 
`` This money has been once given to the poor , '' says `` Uncle Charley , '' `` and that relieves me of a second giving , though if they come round with the hat , and Kate 's eyes are upon me , a V or so will have to go in ; as for the bulk , it will be as it happens ; '' and tossing up the purse , and catching it in his hand as he walked , and nodding and smiling across his shoulder , he went away . 
One day Peter asked Samuel to go into the fields and look after old Posey , for he could not himself walk so much as from the bed to the window any more . 
It was on one of these occasions Mrs. Whiteflock had come in with more smiles and more flowers than common , because that she had wept more tears , perhaps , that Peter asked Samuel to go , while she sat by his bedside , and look after Posey . 
As it happened Mr. Lightwait had been walking in the fields , too , that morning , and was just returning as Samuel went out . 
`` My friend , '' says Samuel , turning quietly aside , and giving him all the way , `` if you can afford the injury you have done me , I can , so let there be no enmity between us . '' 
`` It was in that path I met Samuel , '' he muttered to himself ; and then he cast down his eyes and proceeded at a sober pace . 
says Samuel , for it was he who was at the gate . 
As he reached it forth Mr. Lightwait recognized on the little finger of his right hand the thin , plain band of gold that he himself had stolen from Margaret and given back to Samuel with such bitter satisfaction and proud triumph . 
`` If I might venture to speak for her , '' he said , coldly , `` I should say she would prefer to receive back her own property , '' and he glanced at the old ring . 
`` You are mistaken , '' says Samuel , `` I give her this '' -- he was turning the ring on his finger now -- `` with my heart in it ; she did not value it , and I now give her one with brilliants , which she will value . 
When I give this , Brother Lightwait '' -LRB- he was still turning it fondly -RRB- , `` I expected , as I need hardly tell you , to have her hand back with it . 
I can not have the hand now '' -- he might have said , `` I will not have the hand , '' but he was all too good , too generous to say that ; he only said , therefore , `` I can not have the hand , and if , as I dare say , you can , let there be no thought in your mind that I have any claim upon it . '' 
There was not a touch of bitterness in his tone , it was not even sad , but graciously sweet and tender , and as he finished speaking he offered his hand , the brown , clumsy hand with the poor little ring shining upon one finger ; and as they stood thus together , the soft white palm of the bishop 's son trembled in the hard honest grasp of his great-hearted friend , for that Samuel was sincerely his friend , he did not and could not doubt . 
An hour or more after this , while Samuel was yet meditating beneath the stars , as he went up and down the garden path , a shadow fell suddenly across the flowers , and the next moment Mr. Lightwait stood before him . 
`` My good friend , '' says Samuel , and the calm dignity of his voice and manner was majestic as he spoke , `` if God had joined us you could not put us asunder ; she never loved me , and my love for her has been absorbed in a larger and higher love . 
And with a smile benignant and tender , such as the mother bestows upon her wayward child , and with a gentle gesture implying farewell , he moved away through the starlight , and the bishop 's son was alone . 
All his evil passions were roused up by the dispassionate behavior of Samuel , and so far from rejoicing in victory , he writhed as in defeat . 
`` I will get the better of this insolent fellow yet , '' he said to himself , as he turned away . 
When Margaret met Samuel next , she flaunted the diamonds in his face . 
One day about this time Mr. Gayfeather paid another visit to Samuel ; he was in high spirits ; fortune , he said , was tired of opposing him and had relented at last ; to be sure , he had nothing in hand as yet , but it was all the same ; he saw his way clear , and the thing was just as sure as to-morrow 's sunrise , if he only had a thousand or so to begin with . 
says Samuel , looking a good deal disappointed . 
Well , no , but this would be the means of keeping him steady . 
Samuel began to feel more interest now . 
`` Uncle Charley '' had said he had been brayed in a mortar , and scriptural passages always had a great effect upon his mind . 
The worldly man was quick to perceive that he was on the right track . 
`` Yes , Samuel , '' says he , `` I am minded to put away childish things , and to be a man , at last ; and I look to you more than to anybody in the world , to stay up my hands . '' 
His countenance became solemn as he said this , and casting down his eyes , he waited in silence . 
`` And if you are really in earnest , '' says Samuel , `` why not at once come into the church ? '' 
`` I do n't know Miss Lightwait at all , '' says Samuel . 
`` Heavenlyprospects have opened up to me , Sam , '' he says , and then perceiving his mistake , hastens to correct himself by substituting brilliant for heavenly . 
`` I am so glad , '' says Samuel ; `` things seem to have gone against you somehow , in the past , but there is always a chance for earnest , honest work ; it 's never too late for that , Uncle Charley . '' 
And he asks what the brilliant prospect is . 
`` There on Pearl Street , you know , '' he says . 
`` I do n't just understand what you are to do , '' says Samuel ; `` not to receive more than you earn , surely ? '' 
says Samuel . 
Uncle Charley jumped to his feet at this , slapping Samuel on the shoulder , and roaring with laughter . 
he cries , `` your innocence is perfectly lovely ! '' 
Samuel felt shamefaced . 
`` I do n't understand at all , '' says he ; `` I only hope everything is right . '' 
And wiping tears from his eyes , for he had laughed till he cried , he sat down with his hand upon Samuel 's knee . 
`` I 'll tell you what I 'll do , '' says Samuel . 
Then Mr. Gayfeather said every man must choose his own walk in life ; `` for instance , '' says he , `` you would not like me to dictate to you ; you know what you can do better than I can tell you . '' 
And after a good deal of talk that Samuel could not but admit to be sensible , he grew grave all at once , and said , giving Samuel a little jostle , for he still held him by the knee , `` I have been taught that he that asketh , receiveth ; but I have asked bread , and you give me a stone ; I ask a fish , and you give me a serpent . '' 
And then he folded his arms together , and said : `` Ah , well , well ! 
riches might make me selfish , too , I do n't know ; but , Samuel , remember , I only want a crumb from your table ; and having that , I promise you , on my honor , that I 'll never trouble you in this way again . '' 
Of course he got the money , though Samuel could not readily spare so much , only a small portion of his inheritance being as yet available . 
`` Be careful of this , Uncle Charley , '' he says , when he put the check in his hand , `` for remember two and two never did and never will make ten . '' 
Some ten or twelve days after this , the Whiteflock children brought Samuel , on coming home from the post-office , where their mother sent them every day in the hope of hearing news of her daughter Martha , a letter from Mr. Gayfeather , in which he told his `` dear boy '' that he was married and about the happiest man under the sun . 
Samuel took this letter from his waistcoat pocket and read and re-read it two or three times over in silence , as he sat by Peter 's bedside that evening . 
At last he asked Mrs. Whiteflock , who sat with sewing work in her lap and her eyes upon Peter , whether it did n't cost a good deal to live at the blank hotel . 
`` Peter shall not lack anything that I can procure for him , '' says Samuel , and off he went to town . 
When this , and other errands he had in hand were accomplished , he purchased a pair of white cotton gloves , and a cravat of a much gayer pattern than he was used to wear , and renovating his toilet as he rode along the street , came finally in front of the -- House , where he paused , and glancing up and down at all the windows in the hope of seeing his Uncle Charley at some one of them , he dismounted , secured the bridle-rein and went in , asking the first person he happened to meet if Mr. Gayfeather was anywhere about . 
There Samuel repeated his inquiry with such a dubious , backward air as made the clerk pause and eye him sharply before he gave the required information . 
His pockets were stuffed out with the prunes and other packages , his hat was set awkwardly on the back of his head , and his little attempt to refine upon his costume had had the effect to produce an inharmony that was almost ludicrous . 
Samuel Dale , as Samuel Dale , was well enough , but Samuel Dale in white gloves and scarlet cravat was an anomaly . 
`` Yes , sir , '' says Samuel ; `` he is my uncle . '' 
replies the clerk , and then in more subdued and respectful terms he tells Samuel that he had better send up his card in that case , so as to insure an interview . 
Mr. and Mrs. Gayfeather are at breakfast , he thinks . 
cries Samuel , surprised in turn . 
and he takes out a great silver watch and turns the face towards the clerk . 
The clerk nodded and smiled ; `` he is at breakfast , nevertheless , '' says he , and then he says , `` You countrymen think that rather slow , I dare say . '' 
`` I think it is a prodigious waste of time ; a wicked waste , '' says Samuel , and then he says he has no card , and if anybody will show him the way , he will take the risk of disturbing Mr. Gayfeather , for if he has not yet breakfasted it is high time he had . 
`` Show this young man to Mr. Gayfeather 's room , '' says the clerk , nodding to a black boy who stood observing him , and grinning as he observed ; but the boy took to his heels and clicked it out of sight before Samuel had time to turn about . 
He , for his part declined to be usher . 
He had the grace to inform Mr. Gayfeather , however , that a queer looking fellow was below stairs who professed to know him . 
In five minutes he came back , his arm through Samuel 's , and running on in the liveliest and most familiar way . 
He had thrown open the door of the breakfast parlor and was looking round him with all the wonder and admiration he had expected to excite in Samuel . 
says Samuel , backing awkwardly against the wall , and without a grain of the enthusiasm he was expected to manifest . 
Samuel just touched her forehead with his lips , blushing twice as red as she , and backing quickly and awkwardly away again . 
She wore a gay little cap , perched like a butterfly on the top of her head , her soft , white fingers sparkled with rings , her brooch was quite a breast-plate , and her iron-gray curls , short and crisp , had , to Samuel 's thinking , a defiant sort of look . 
Her gown , of some plain-colored stuff , had a stylishness about it that would have put Mrs. Whiteflock 's Sunday best to shame , and her pretty slipper , when she set her foot on the fender , caused Samuel to swallow very hard . 
He had seen its like before . 
Nothing would do but he must come to the table and have a cup of coffee . 
`` I shall not like it a bit , Samuel , '' says Mrs. Gayfeather , pronouncing his name as though she had been used to it all her life , `` if you do n't sit down with us ; no , I sha n't like it a bit ; Charles ring for fresh cakes and coffee . 
Now , Samuel , just here by me . '' 
Then she kept him so busy with her light , little gossip about the young folks of the country , and her sympathetic inquiries about the old and the ailing , more especially about Peter , serving him with her own pretty hands , and giving him double quantities of white sugar and cream , and of all the other delicacies on the board , that he had no time either to be displeased or confused any more , and in spite of his prejudice against the fine gown and little butterfly cap , and against the late breakfast , felt himself very comfortable . 
`` And really , Samuel , I suppose it is near your dinner time . 
And you , Samuel , must help me with advice , and counsel ; now , wo n't you ? '' 
Time and again he tried to bring something around about the brilliant prospect ahead , but somehow that was kept out of the conversation , and the general tone was meant to indicate , and did indicate to Samuel that everything was going as well as it could go . 
Still he was not fully satisfied . 
All that purple and fine linen , all the shining service of porcelain and silver must be paid for , he knew , and how ? 
At length he said bluntly and outright , `` How about that hitch , Uncle Charley ? '' 
She had modified both tone and manner into playfulness before she concluded the sentence , but Samuel felt that there was serious meaning in her words , even before he received a rebuking wink from `` Uncle Charley . '' 
he cries across the table , gayly ; `` only see what it has brought me to , already . 
Of course she did not mind the denial , so long as he had called her darling , and the current ran smooth again . 
`` By the way , Samuel , '' says Katherine , `` they say that Mrs. Fairfax has found her match at last ; how is it ? '' 
and then she tells him she has been told that Dr. Allprice has proven a veritable tyrant . 
Samuel knew nothing about it , he said ; they were both professors , and he hoped they would conduct themselves with the seemliness that became Christian people . 
`` I am distanced , '' says Samuel , without either smiling or blushing , and directly he arose to go . 
`` I thought so too , '' replied Samuel , `` but I walked in a vain shadow and disquieted myself in vain ; I dreamed , and I am awake ; that is all . '' 
Samuel looked at her in surprise . 
`` I always understood , '' he says , `` that you was against havin ' her in your family ; but , '' he adds , `` how little we know by what we hear . '' 
He might have said , `` how little we know by what we see ! '' 
but he was too ingenuous for that . 
`` She is only humbugging you , Sam , '' says Mr. Gayfeather when he had gotten Samuel to one side ; `` she thinks since she has taken me for better , for worse , -LRB- and for worse I 'm afraid -RRB- that further opposition would come from her with an ill grace ; and that is the long and short of it . '' 
And then he says , `` I tell you , Sam , the best woman in the world will lie upon occasion ! '' 
No , Samuel would have nothing more . 
`` But what I would like , Uncle Charley , '' says he , `` is to know how you are really getting along , before I go away ! '' 
As Samuel rode homeward that day , he pondered upon these things , and they made him uneasy and anxious . 
`` Either the world is very wicked , '' he mused , `` or I do n't know anything , sure enough . '' 
The sun was yet three hours high when he dismounted at Mrs. Whiteflock 's gate , and the first thing he saw was the face of Miss P. Goke at the window . 
She wore her white fancy aprou , and was running shurs in a piece of green silk , and she tapped on the sash with her open-topped steel thimble , and smiled and nodded in a very pleasant way as he passed along . 
He found Peter better , as he had inferred from her smile ; sitting up in bed , and impatient for the prunes . 
A small bottle with some black liquid in it , and a long tin box , with lid crimped around the edges , stood on the table by his bedside , and with one wasted hand he played with them idly as a child would have done , while he listened to the news Samuel had brought from town . 
Now he would identify himself with the future , as though he were the stoutest and healthiest man in the world , and then again he would leave himself altogether out of the order of things . 
The green silk stuff lying in the white apron of Miss Goke made a pretty picture in his eyes , and as she pulled her long threads up and up , and puckered and puffed , and crooked and straightened , he seemed to take as lively an interest in the work as did she herself . 
She understood intuitively how to please him , and puffed and puckered a good deal gratuitously , and when the bonnet began to take shape she put it on her head and appealed to him to know how it was going to look . 
`` And would you believe , Peter , '' she says , as she thus held the bit of silk about her face for his inspection and approval , `` that I made one almost just the match o ' this ; only it was trimmed all round here , '' tapping one finger against the front , `` with a frill of the sweetest light blond you ever laid eyes on ; and just here over the crown , it had another frill of lace , and stuck right herewas the loveliest japonica ! 
I do n't believe a word of it ; do you , Samuel ? '' ' 
`` I hope it 's true , '' Samuel answered , and he manifested no further interest or curiosity about it , just then ; but when Miss Goke went on , he listened with deep attention . 
If a certain person had continued to be his rival -LRB- here she looked hard at Samuel -RRB- , I ca n't say what he might have done ; but as things stand , he 'll never marry her ; mark my words ! '' 
`` For instance , '' says Samuel , hitching his chair close , and leaning quite over her lap , in his eagerness . 
`` Mr. Hoops might have been mistaken , '' says Samuel . 
Samuel took the big Bible directly , and with the great volume on one knee , and little Peter on the other , remained reading apart , till after sunset . 
Mrs. Whiteflock , her children , the Doctor , Samuel , and a female friend or two , were about all . 
`` There is no time to lose , make haste , my good Samuel ! '' 
`` Perhaps Mr. Lightwait is engaged with books , or with the preparation of a sermon , '' thought Samuel ; `` I will not ring and arouse the house , but tap on the sash of his own apartment instead , and so make known my errand without noise or disturbance . '' 
As he approached the window , he saw that only one-half of the shutter was open , and that this had probably been blown open by the wind , as it was loosely beating about ; that the curtain was drawn low , and that the light within was so faint as to be hardly perceptible . 
He hesitated , -- the bishop 's son was not at his studies , that was evident , -- and while he hesitated , he heard , as he was almost sure , the murmur of voices within . 
Presently the light flashed out , and a voice that Samuel recognized as that of the bishop 's son , inquired who was there . 
`` It 's me , Mr. Lightwait , '' says Samuel , `` and I 'm come for you in a case of life and death ; open the window for mercy 's sake ! '' 
Then the bishop 's son drew up the curtain and threw up the sash , and Samuel , leaving his wet things outside , stepped in , and at once explained why and wherefore he was come . 
`` Truly , in the midst of life we are in death , '' says Mr. Lightwait , solemnly ; and then he tells Samuel he will attend him as soon as possible , and he moves about the room adjusting this and that , in a strange , perturbed sort of way . 
`` No , Peter was never so truly alive , '' says Samuel . 
`` You must know , Samuel , '' he explains , `` that you roused me out of the deepest sleep possible . 
And then he tells Samuel again , seeing his look of impatience , perhaps , that he will not detain him now -- not a minute longer . 
`` I must put myself in more suitable trim , you understand , '' and he indicated his dressing-gown and slippers , and then he comes back to the sofa , moves something from one arm of it , looks furtively about , and then at last he does get out of the room . 
Samuel groaned aloud when he was left alone -- still standing , mute as a statue -- then , being always ready to distrust himself rather than another , he began to doubt and to explain away the evidence of his senses . 
`` Maybe he was talking in his sleep , '' he soliloquized , `` and maybe I saw but one shadow , after all . 
And sinking down upon the sofa he stretched out one arm in a pleading , helpless sort of way , and caught at the pillow . 
As he did so , something loosened itself from the fringes and fell to the ground . 
With the shyness that always came over him when he was among fine things , he feared he had done some mischief , and dropping his hand began to feel along the carpet . 
was the cry that came to his lip , as if it were half smothered in his heart ; he was on his feet and holding what he had taken up full to the light . 
says he again ; and this time the exclamation was hardly distinguishable from a moan , so low , so despairing ; he had turned the lining of white kid toward the light , and there in his own handwriting was the name he feared to see -- `` Margaret . '' 
This was not that which had been caught in the fringe of the pillow , and so at first arrested his attention ; he had had a glimpse of that as it fell , and it was not a lady 's slipper . 
`` No matter , '' he said , coming back to the sofa and seating himself again , `` I will not search into this bad business . '' 
But while this thought was taking shape in his mind , he set his foot upon something that snapped beneath the weight ; it was a little comb of coral , another of his gifts to Margaret . 
His first impulse was to take Mr. Lightwait by the collar when he should appear , accuse him of false dealing with little Margaret , and so turn him out of his own house , neck and heels , but the second thought was wiser and calmer . 
He tucked the slipper under his waistcoat , and when his pastor came at last , all muffled and cloaked , he went forth with him , never speaking one word . 
`` No matter , '' says Samuel , shaking off the hand as though it had been a viper , `` the outward storm is nothing ! '' 
A sudden gust of wind at this moment carried away his hat . 
He did not heed it , but , with the rain beating on his head and the winds flying in his face , strode straight along , and for some reason the bishop 's son preferred not to address him again . 
`` I have fetched the man you wished to see , Sister Whiteflock , '' says Samuel , bending down to her pillow ; and then he went out of the chamber , and left them alone . 
The remainder of the night he passed in the room where the corpse lay , and long before morning it was given him to understand as plainly as though it had been whispered in his ear , that the course of action he had so hurriedly outlined was the right one and the only one to pursue . 
But the time for action was not quite come ; he kept all these things , therefore , and pondered them in his heart . 
Margaret came with her mother to Peter 's funeral , and Samuel noted that she wept from first to last with a bitterness which a grief not personal to herself could hardly have been expected to inspire . 
He could not help thinking , indeed , that she was but giving expression to some pent up trouble -- a trouble which had already pinched her cheek , stolen the redness from her mouth , and all the light and sparkle from her eyes , so that she seemed to have had a dozen sorrowful years added to her life since he last saw her . 
He would gladly have spoken some word of comfort to her , but he perceived that she avoided him , and he thought on the whole it was perhaps wisest to respect her preference . 
When they turned away from the grave he took it upon himself to put Mrs. Whiteflock , who had previously been attended by Samuel , into the carriage with the bishop 's son , and to place himself beside his nephew . 
Then he said he had fancied that Samuel might not wish to leave his friends just then in their affliction , and that he should probably go and return before Samuel would be ready to set out . 
What further he said need not be recapitulated . 
Suffice to say that before they reached Mrs. Whiteflock 's gate he had gotten Samuel 's consent to his proposal , and had fixed the day for the clinching of the legal nail . 
`` By the by , Sam , '' he said , as he was taking leave , `` shall you be wanting that thousand before I get back ? '' 
`` No , '' Samuel would `` not need the money ; do n't give yourself any trouble about it , Uncle Charley , '' he said , `` but keep it till next month , or next year , if it suits your convenience . '' 
But Samuel protested that he would not have the money back just then ; he need not have protested ; there was no likelihood of his getting it just then . 
`` O , Samuel , Samuel , '' she cries , `` what shall we do for our poor little Margaret ? 
At last she gets a letter out of her bosom , `` There , Samuel , '' she says , `` is a letter which the bishop 's son has sent to Margaret , and she is breaking her heart about it . '' 
And then , drawing very near to Samuel , leaning quite upon his shoulder , in fact , she tells him , almost in a whisper , that she is afraid the letter is not all she is breaking her heart about , neither ! 
`` O , Samuel , Samuel ! 
She put the letter in his hand and left him alone . 
When she came back , which she did directly , she found the letter lying on the ground and Samuel staring into the blank air . 
Then he covered his face with his hands , and they sat a long time in silence . 
Then it was agreed between them that he should start off immediately , riding old Sorrel , the best traveller in Mrs. Whiteflock 's stables , and encumbered with no luggage , except it were a pair of saddlebags to contain a change of linen and some other necessaries . 
And in all the confidence that was of necessity between them , Samuel did not breathe a word of what he had seen at the parsonage , nor did he intimate the fact of his having resolved then and there to go and see Father Goodman . 
Other hindrances fell out ; when all was about ready , a strange man appeared at the door and inquired for Mr. Samuel Dale ; and when Samuel appeared , he handed him a letter , sealed with wax and elegantly superscribed . 
It was from Mr. Gayfeather , and Samuel 's brow clouded as he read ; it was , of course , a request for money . 
`` I am off a little sooner than I expected , dear Sam , '' he said , `` and can not well spare the money to pay the note that will be handed you with this ; please arrange it for me and add one more to my many obligations . 
Always and always your affectionate The note that was presented when the letter had been read , called for more money than Samuel had at command ; he was obliged to borrow part of it , and this left him penniless . 
He could not of course set out on his journey utterly destitute , so that in one way and another his departure was delayed beyond his expectations by three or four days . 
And even then he started in some haste , and without being quite ready . 
It was the evening before the time fixed for his setting out , and he sat watching Mrs. Whiteflock , who was knitting the second of a pair of woollen mittens for him . 
When one of the children came running in with word that Mr. Stake wished to see Samuel one minute . 
`` I 'm afeard everything is n't right , Mr. Dale , '' he began ; `` there 's things a-being said about Margaret , that ort n't to be said unless it 's knowed certain that she 's fell from virtue , and I must say there is some grounds for the gossip . '' 
says Samuel . 
`` I hope there is nothing wrong , '' says Samuel ; and he went straight to the stables and saddled old Sorrel , muttering , as he tightened the girth , `` Dreadful for the bishop 's son , to be sure ! 
The sun had been set half an hour ; the silver ring of the new moon hung low in the east , and the stars were beginning to twinkle here and there along the sky , as he mounted and rode away through the solemn , dusky light . 
Amongst the rest , -LRB- and be sure the Bible and hymn-book were not wanting , -RRB- he had in his saddle-bags the little French slipper and the letter which Mr. Lightwait had written to Margaret , about which Mrs. Whiteflock had said she was breaking her heart . 
All night Samuel rode , and with brief haltings for the sake of his horse rather than of himself , all day again , and late on into the night . 
And on the afternoon of the second day old Sorrel began to flag a little , stout as he was , for the roads were rough , and he had urged him beyond what he would have done in ordinary circumstances . 
He had been travelling for two hours through low , swampy ground , covered with almost uninterrupted forest , beech , white oak , low scrubby dog-wood , and the tall , straight gum , with just here and there some settler 's log cabin in a little patch of clearing by the roadside , when all at once , upon a slight elevation , and with its narrow margin of clearing all shut in by thick woods , he came upon a log meeting-house . 
Samuel dismounted , secured old Sorrel so that he might graze a little off the thistly grass , brushed the dust from his hat and waistcoat , and went into the house . 
On one of these Samuel seated himself , drawing a good many eyes upon him as he did so ; a stranger in the place naturally exciting wonder and curiosity , especially among the young people , many of whom were women . 
But if they wondered , he wondered in turn ; where did all these men and women come from , and how did they live in the little huts , and off the black , swampy land ? 
We will not linger over the solemn ceremonies ; let it suffice to say that when the dust had been consigned to dust , and the fresh mound of earth heaped up among the briers , the good people , as they were about to turn their faces homeward , gathered about Samuel , to make kind inquiries , and to press upon him their simple hospitality . 
When he mentioned whither he was going and whence he had come and that his main object was to see Father Goodman , there was a general exclamation of glad surprise , `` Why , this is Father Goodman that you have seen already ! '' 
Samuel 's heart sank down -- would he ever dare show the letter of the bishop 's son , or the little French slipper to this austere man ? 
But the austerity vanished as they rode together , for they were yet ten miles from the Big Bend , though , as Samuel was glad to find , part of this distance was toward home again , he having been misdirected and sent quite by chance in the way of the log meeting-house in the wilderness . 
The evening was passed in cheerful , happy conversation , and it was in the course of the talk , as they sat before the blazing logs , that Samuel learned what the reader has already been told about their means and manner of life . 
When the unframed skeleton of a clock counted nine from the dim corner where it stood , the young woman stuck her knitting-needles through the ball of gray wool yarn off which she was knitting , and fetching the great Bible laid it open upon the good man 's knees , and it was not until after the accustomed devotions were ended that Samuel intimated the errand upon which he had come . 
She had taken his love for granted , he saw , and was sorry to see ; she had been misled in part , he doubted not , by the diamond ring , he having omitted to tell her -- and he confessed himself to blame for the omission -- that the ring was Samuel 's gift , and he but the conveyer of it . 
And here he more than hinted that it was not even yet too late to win back her old sweetheart , who was in fact much worthier of her gentle , confiding heart than himself . 
He had certainly never intended marriage , and he begged that her foolish and childish importunity should be deferred at least for the present ; she must keep her mind cheerful with visits and patch-work , and not spoil her pretty eyes with tears -- it was quite unworthy of her generous nature to behave as she was doing , but if she was determined to make everything but marriage impossible , he supposed he must submit with such grace as he might . 
Meantime , rely upon my friendship , and if you desire me to see Samuel for you , I will do so with the greatest pleasure , and doubt not but that I could forecast a happier future for you and him than you by any possibility could hope to enjoy with me ! '' 
unless indeed , you , Samuel , should take my place while I am away ? '' 
`` I might take it , '' answered Samuel , `` but to fill it -- that I could never hope to do -- and then I am so unworthy . '' 
And in the end it was agreed that Samuel should remain , preaching and exhorting with such power as the spirit should bestow , while Father Goodman was away . 
When Father Goodman rode homeward , he carried in his saddle-bags the second of the pair of woollen mittens which Samuel had left unfinished when he went away , and in his heart he carried a hundred kind messages , among them , one for Samuel to keep and ride old Sorrel , as long as he lived , for it was predicted , and rightly , that he would soon be licensed to preach , and remain in the wild new country where he was , for good and all . 
And here it may be stated , that Samuel Dale had meantime become Bishop Dale , and that his praise was in all the churches . 
About many a winter fire-side , the story of his early poverty and hardship was repeated , together with anecdotes of his later life , to which the mothers listened , tearful-eyed , thinking that what Samuel Dale had achieved , might yet be achieved by other lads -- perhaps by one of their own boys -- who should say ! 
One of the circuit riders from the west , was talking of Samuel Dale , our young bishop , he called him . 
`` He ought to have had a fortune by rights , '' he was saying ; `` and to have been as rich in worldly things as he is in spiritual , but I suppose you all know how that worthless relative of his -- one Mr. Gayfeather , cheated him out of his lawful inheritance ; contriving by one pretence and another , to get the legacy into his own hands , and to keep it there . 
`` That is just like Samuel ! '' 
cries Mrs. Whiteflock , `` I knew nothing could spoil him ! '' 
`` Nothing , '' said Father Goodman , now a reverend old man , `` unless his pretty wife shall do what all the rest has failed to do . '' 
