My Mary expects to have her bed in three weeks ; and as for you , Mrs. Wilson , you know you are but a cranky sort of a body at the best of times . '' 
My Mary shall never work in a factory , that I 'm determined on . 
You see Esther spent her money in dress , thinking to set off her pretty face ; and got to come home so late at night , that at last I told her my mind : my missis thinks I spoke crossly , but I meant right , for I loved Esther , if it was only for Mary 's sake . 
She flushed up like a turkey-cock , and I thought fire would come out of her eyes ; but when she saw Mary cry -LRB- for Mary ca n't abide words in a house -RRB- , she went and kissed her , and said she was not so bad as I thought her . 
it was this very last Sunday , she came to drink a cup of tea with Mary ; and that was the last time we set eyes on her . '' 
`` Was she any ways different in her manner ? '' 
I have thought several times since , that she was a bit quieter , and more womanly-like ; more gentle , and more blushing , and not so riotous and noisy . 
She comes in towards four o'clock , when afternoon church was loosing , and she goes and hangs her bonnet up on the old nail we used to call hers , while she lived with us . 
I remember thinking what a pretty lass she was , as she sat on a low stool by Mary , who was rocking herself , and in rather a poor way . 
She laughed and cried by turns , but all so softly and gently , like a child , that I could n't find in my heart to scold her , especially as Mary was fretting already . 
She took our little Mary by the waist , and -- '' `` Thou must leave off calling her ` little ' Mary , she 's growing up into as fine a lass as one can see on a summer 's day ; more of her mother 's stock than thine , '' interrupted Wilson . 
`` Well , well , I call her ` little , ' because her mother 's name is Mary . 
But , as I was saying , she takes Mary in a coaxing sort of way , and ` Mary , ' says she , ` what should you think if I sent for you some day and made a lady of you . ' 
When I lie on my death-bed , and Mary -LRB- bless her -RRB- stands fretting , as I know she will fret , '' and here his voice faltered a little , `` will a rich lady come and take her to her own home if need be , till she can look round , and see what best to do ? 
`` Why , she took leave of us that Sunday night in a very loving way , kissing both wife Mary , and daughter Mary -LRB- if I must not call her little -RRB- , and shaking hands with me ; but all in a cheerful sort of manner , so we thought nothing about her kisses and shakes . 
Mary ran up with water for her mother , and I thought so much about my wife , I did not seem to care at all for Esther . 
She loved her next to me , and Mary , and she 's never been the same body since poor Tom 's death . 
`` She 's a poor woman , and can feel for the poor , Wilson , '' was Barton 's reply ; and then he added , `` Thank you kindly for your offer , and mayhap I may trouble her to be a bit with my wife , for while I 'm at work , and Mary 's at school , I know she frets above a bit . 
See , there 's Mary ! '' 
The two men had crossed the last stile , while Mary loitered behind to gather some buds of the coming hawthorn , when an overgrown lad came past her , and snatched a kiss , exclaiming , `` For old acquaintance sake , Mary . '' 
Mary sprang forward to take her father 's charge , with girl 's fondness for infants , and with some litte foresight of the event soon to happen at home ; while young Wilson seemed to lose his rough , cubbish nature as he crowed and cooed to his little brother . 
Two rude lads , standing at a disorderly looking house-door , exclaimed , as Mary Barton -LRB- the daughter -RRB- passed , `` Eh , look ! 
Of course this referred to young Wilson , who stole a look to see how Mary took the idea . 
He saw her assume the air of a young fury , and to his next speech she answered not a word . 
The tray was soon hoisted down , and before the merry clatter of cups and saucers began , the women disburdened themselves of their out-of-door things , and sent Mary up stairs with them . 
So they tried to be busily occupied with the children , and not to hear Mrs. Barton 's directions to Mary . 
`` Run , Mary dear , just round the corner , and get some fresh eggs at Tipping 's -LRB- you may get one a-piece , that will be five-pence -RRB- , and see if he has any nice ham cut , that he would let us have a pound of . '' 
`` Well , a pound and a half , Mary . 
And get it Cumberland ham , for Wilson comes from there-away , and it will have a sort of relish of home with it he 'll like , -- and Mary '' -LRB- seeing the lassie fain to be off -RRB- , `` you must get a pennyworth of milk and a loaf of bread -- mind you get it fresh and new -- and , and -- that 's all , Mary . 
Jem and Mary can drink out of one , surely . '' 
But Mary secretly determined to take care that Alice brought her tea-cup and saucer , if the alternative was to be her sharing any thing with Jem . 
After her walk she felt chilly and weary , and was busy trying to light her fire with the damp coals , and half-green sticks , when Mary knocked . 
`` Is that you , Mary Barton ? '' 
`` Please , '' said Mary , almost breathless , `` mother says you 're to come to tea , and bring your cup and saucer , for George and Jane Wilson is with us , and the twins , and Jem . 
Stay , Mary , has your mother got any nettles for spring drink ? 
Mary ran off like a hare to fulfil what , to a girl of thirteen , fond of power , was the more interesting part of her errand -- the money-spending part . 
And well and ably did she perform her business , returning home with a little bottle of rum , and the eggs in one hand , while her other was filled with some excellent red-and-white , smoke-flavoured , Cumberland ham , wrapped up in paper . 
She was at home , and frying ham , before Alice had chosen her nettles , put out her candle , locked her door , and walked in a very foot-sore manner as far as John Barton 's . 
Mrs. Barton knew manners too well , to do any thing but sit at the tea-table and make tea , though in her heart she longed to be able to superintend the frying of the ham , and cast many an anxious look at Mary as she broke the eggs and turned the ham , with a very comfortable portion of confidence in her own culinary powers . 
To her surprise , a surprise that brought tears of joy into her eyes , Mary Barton put her arms round her neck , and kissed the self-reproaching Alice . 
Many and many a time , as Alice reviewed that evening in her after life , did she bless Mary Barton for these kind and thoughtful words . 
But just then all she could say was , `` Good night , Mary , and may God bless you . '' 
In the middle of that same night a neighbour of the Bartons was roused from her sound , well-earned sleep , by a knocking , which had at first made part of her dream ; but starting up , as soon as she became convinced of its reality , she opened the window , and asked who was there ? 
`` Me -- John Barton , '' answered he in a voice tremulous with agitation . 
`` My missis is in labour , and , for the love of God , step in while I run for th ' doctor , for she 's fearful bad . '' 
In less than five minutes she was standing by Mrs. Barton 's bed-side , relieving the terrified Mary , who went about , where she was told , like an automation ; her eyes tearless , her face calm , though deadly pale , and uttering no sound , except when her teeth chattered for very nervousness . 
Barton absolutely stamped with impatience , outside the doctor 's door , before he came down ; and walked so fast homewards , that the medical man several times asked him to go slower , `` Is she so very bad ? '' 
`` Worse , much worser than I ever saw her before , '' replied John . 
she was not -- she was at peace . 
The look of death was too clear upon her face . 
`` Nothing could have saved her -- there has been some shock to the system -- '' and so he went on ; but , to unheeding cars , which yet retained his words to ponder on ; words not for immediate use in conveying sense , but to be laid by , in the store-house of memory , for a more convenient season . 
At last she went , with some kindly-meant words -LRB- a text of comfort , which fell upon a deafened ear , and something about `` Mary , '' but which Mary , in his bewildered state , he could not tell . 
He thought of their courtship ; of his first seeing her , an awkward beautiful rustic , far too shiftless for the d elic atefactory work to which she was apprenticed ; of his first gift to her , a bead necklace , which had long ago been put by , in one of the deep drawers of the dresser , to be kept for Mary . 
His groping hand fell on the piled-up tea things , which at his desire she had left unwashed till morning -- they were all so tired . 
Poor Mary , meanwhile , had mechanically helped the neighbour in all the last attentions to the dead ; and when she was kissed , and spoken to soothingly , tears stole quietly down her cheeks : but she reserved the luxury of a full burst of grief till she should be alone . 
She shut the chamber-door softly , after the neighbour was gone , and then shook the bed by which she knelt with her agony of sorrow . 
She repeated , over and over again , the same words ; the same vain , unanswered address to her who was no more . 
At last she stopped , because it flashed across her mind that her violence of grief might disturb her father . 
She looked on the face so changed , and yet so strangely like . 
She bent down to kiss it . 
The cold , unyielding flesh , struck a shudder to her heart , and hastily obeying her impulse , she grasped the candle , and opened the door . 
Then she heard the sobs of her father 's griefs ; and quickly , quietly , stealing down the steps , she knelt by him , and kissed his hand . 
But when her shriller sobs , her terrified cries -LRB- which she could not repress -RRB- , rose upon his ear , he checked himself . 
Mary got up , kissed her father , and sadly went up stairs to the little closet , where she slept . 
She thought it was of no use undressing , for that she could never , never sleep , so threw herself on her bed in her clothes , and before ten minutes had passed away , the passionate grief of youth had subsided into sleep . 
But never to Mary . 
While he was harsh and silent to others , he humoured Mary with tender love ; she had more of her own way than is common in any rank with girls of her age . 
Part of this was the necessity of the case ; for , of course , all the money went through her hands , and the household arrangements were guided by her will and pleasure . 
But part was her father 's indulgence , for he left her , with full trust in her unusual sense and spirit , to choose her own associates , and her own times for seeing her associates . 
With all this , Mary had not her father 's confidence in the matters which now began to occupy him , heart and soul ; she was aware that he had joined clubs , and become an active member of the Trades ' Union , but it was hardly likely that a girl of Mary 's age -LRB- even when two or three years had elapsed since her mother 's death -RRB- should care much for the differences between the employers and the employed , -- an eternal subject for agitation in the manufacturing districts , which , however it may be lulled for a time , is sure to break forth again with fresh violence at any depression of trade , showing that in its apparent quiet , the ashes had still smouldered in the breasts of a few . 
So while Mary took her own way , growing more spirited every day , and growing in her beauty too , her father was chairman at many a Trades ' Union meeting ; a friend of delegates , and ambitious of being a delegate himself ; a Chartist , and ready to do any thing for his order . 
His most practical thought was getting Mary apprenticed to a dressmaker ; for he had never left off disliking a factory life for a girl , on more accounts than one . 
Mary must do something . 
The factories being , as I said , out of the question , there were two things open -- going out to service , and the dressmaking business ; and against the first of these , Mary set herself with all the force of her strong will . 
What that will might have been able to achieve had her father been against her , I can not tell ; but he disliked the idea of parting with her , who was the light of his hearth ; the voice of his otherwise silent home . 
I am afraid that Mary 's determination not to go to service arose from far less sensible thoughts on the subject than her father 's . 
Three years of independence of action -LRB- since her mother 's death such a time had now elapsed -RRB- had little inclined her to submit to rules as to hours and associates , to regulate her dress by a mistress 's ideas of propriety , to lose the dear feminine priviliges of gossiping with a merry neighbour , and working night and day to help one who was sorrowful . 
Besides all this , the sayings of her absent , her mysterious aunt , Esther , had an unacknowledged influence over Mary . 
She knew she was very pretty ; the factory people as they poured from the mills , and in their freedom told the truth -LRB- whatever it might be -RRB- to every passer-by , had early let Mary into the secret of her beauty . 
If their remarks had fallen on an unheeding ear , there were always young men enough , in a different rank from her own , who were willing to compliment the pretty weaver 's daughter as they met her in the streets . 
Now , while a servant must often drudge and be dirty , must be known as her servant by all who visited at her master 's house , a dressmaker 's apprentice must -LRB- or so Mary thought -RRB- be always dressed with a certain regard to appearance ; must never soil her hands , and need never redden or dirty her face with hard labour . 
Before my telling you so truly what folly Mary felt or thought , injures her without redemption in your opinion , think what are the silly fancies of sixteen years of age in every class , and under all circumstances . 
The end of all the thoughts of father and daughter was , as I said before , Mary was to be a dressmaker ; and her ambition prompted her unwilling father to apply at all the first establishments , to know on what terms of painstaking and zeal his daughter might be admitted into ever so humble a workwoman 's situation . 
He would have been indignant , indeed , had he known that if Mary had accompanied him , the case might have been rather different , as her beauty would have made her desirable as a show-woman . 
Mary saw that the grapes were sour , and the next day she set out herself , as her father could not afford to lose another day 's work ; and before night -LRB- as yesterday 's experience had considerably lowered her ideas -RRB- she had engaged herself as apprentice -LRB- so called , though there were no deeds or indentures to the bond -RRB- to a certain Miss Simmonds , milliner and dressmaker , in a respectable little street leading off Ardwick Green , where her business was duly announced in gold letters on a black ground , enclosed in a bird 's - eye maple frame , and stuck in the front parlour window ; where the workwomen were called `` her young ladies ; '' and where Mary was to work for two years without any remuneration , on consideration of being taught the business ; and where afterwards she was to dine and have tea , with a small quarterly salary -LRB- paid quarterly because so much more genteel than by week -RRB- , a very small one , divisible into a minute weekly pittance . 
In summer she was to be there by six , bringing her day 's meals during the first two years ; in winter she was not to come till after breakfast . 
Her time for returning home at night must always depend upon the quantity of work Miss Simmonds had to do . 
And Mary was satisfied ; and seeing this , her father was contented too , although his words were grumbling and morose ; but Mary knew his ways , and coaxed and planned for the future so cheerily , that both went to bed with easy if not happy hearts . 
The waves of time seemed long since to have swept away all trace of poor Mary Barton . 
But her husband still thought of her , although with a calm and quiet grief , in the silent watches of the night : and Mary would start from her hard-earned sleep , and think in her half-dreamy , half-awakened state , she saw her mother stand by her bed-side , as she used to do `` in the days of long ago ; '' with a shaded candle and an expression of ineffable tenderness , while she looked on her sleeping child . 
But Mary rubbed her eyes and sank back on her pillow , awake , and knowing it was a dream ; and still , in all her troubles and perplexities , her heart called on her mother for aid , and she thought , `` If mother had but lived , she would have helped me . '' 
Barton still attended his club , and was an active member of a Trades ' Union ; indeed , more frequently than ever , since the time of Mary 's return in the evening was so uncertain ; and , as she occasionally , in very busy times , remained all night . 
His father and mother were never weary of praising Jem , at all which commendation pretty Mary Barton would toss her head , seeing clearly enough that they wished her to understand what a good husband he would make , and to favour his love , about which he never dared to speak , whatever eyes and looks revealed . 
One day , in the early winter time , when people were provided with warm substantial gowns , not likely soon to wear out , and when , accordingly , business was rather slack at Miss Simmonds ' , Mary met Alice Wilson , coming home from her half-day 's work at some tradesman 's house . 
Mary and Alice had always liked each other ; indeed , Alice looked with particular interest on the motherless girl , the daughter of her whose forgiving kiss had comforted her in many sleepless hours . 
`` You 'll think it dull enough to come just to sit with an old woman like me , but there 's a tidy young lass as lives in the floor above , who does plain work , and now and then a bit in your own line , Mary ; she 's granddaughter to old Job Legh , a spinner , and a good girl she is . 
Do come , Mary , I 've a terrible wish to make you known to each other . 
She 's a genteel-looking lass , too . '' 
At the beginning of this speech Mary had feared the intended visitor was to be no other than Alice 's nephew ; but Alice was too delicate-minded to plan a meeting , even for her dear Jem , when one would have been an unwilling party ; and Mary , relieved from her apprehension by the conclusion , gladly agreed to come . 
`` I can not think what keeps Mary Barton . 
She 's quite grand with her late hours . '' 
said Alice , as Mary still delayed . 
The truth was , Mary was dressing herself ; yes , to come to poor old Alice 's -- she thought it worth while to consider what gown she should put on . 
But Mary liked making an impression , and in this it must be owned she was pretty often gratified -- and there was this strange girl to consider just now . 
Alice , who never thought much about beauty , had never told Margaret how pretty Mary was ; and , as she came in half-blushing at her own self-consciousness , Margaret could hardly take her eyes off her , and Mary put down her long black lashes with a sort of dislike of the very observation she had taken such pains to secure . 
So father sent George first -LRB- you know George , well enough , Mary -RRB- , and then work was scarce out toward Burton , where we lived , and father said I maun try and get a place . 
asked Mary . 
Mary was glad she had not gone into service , and said so . 
`` Well , but , '' interrupted Mary , `` I should have thought that was the best time to go home . '' 
asked Mary . 
asked Mary . 
with him ; and now he 's gone to South America , at t ` other side of the sun , they tell me . '' 
Mary stole a glance at Margaret to see what she thought of Alice 's geography ; but Margaret looked so quiet and demure , that Mary was in doubt if she were not really ignorant . 
Not that Mary 's knowledge was very profound , but she had seen a terrestrial globe , and knew where to find France and the continents on a map . 
`` Margaret , thou must let Mary hear thee sing . 
I do n't know about fine music myself , but folks say Margar ' t is a rare singer , and I know she can make me cry at any time by singing ` Th ' Owdham Weaver ' . 
Mary held her breath , unwilling to lose a note , it was so clear , so perfect , so imploring . 
A far more correct musician than Mary might have paused with equal admiration of the really scientific knowledge , with which the poor depressedlooking young needle-woman used her superb and flexile voice . 
She stopped ; and with tears of holy sympathy in her eyes , Alice thanked the songstress , who resumed her calm , demure manner , much to Mary 's wonder , for she looked at her unweariedly , as if surprised that the hidden power should not be perceived in the outward appearance . 
And Mary consented . 
On her appearance he pushed his spectacles up so as to rest midway on his forehead , and gave Mary a short , kind welcome . 
Mary looked round on the odd , strange things she had never seen at home , and which seemed to her to have a very uncanny look . 
whispered she to her new friend . 
said Mary , struck with the weird-looking creatures that sprawled around the room in their roughly-made glass cases . 
But she was not prepared for the technical names which Job Legh pattered down on her ear , on which they fell like hail on a skylight ; and the strange language only bewildered her more than ever . 
`` Look , Mary , at this horrid scorpion . 
asked Mary . 
said Mary `` Ay , sure enough ; he boiled for longer time than grandfather liked though . 
asked Mary . 
`` I 'm glad father does not care for such things , '' said Mary . 
Mary wondered if the dear grandfather heard all this , for Margaret did not speak in an under tone ; but no ! 
He did not even notice Mary 's leave-taking , and she went home with the feeling that she had that night made the acquaintance of two of the strangest people she ever saw in her life . 
Margaret , so quiet , so common place , until her singing powers were called forth ; so silent from home , so cheerful and agreeable at home ; and her grandfather so very different to any one Mary had ever seen . 
Opportunities are not often wanting where inclination goes before , and ere the end of that winter Mary looked upon Margaret almost as an old friend . 
The latter would bring her work when Mary was likely to be at home in the evenings and sit with her ; and Job Legh would put a book and his pipe in his pocket and just step round the corner to fetch his grand-child , ready for a talk if he found Barton in ; ready to pull out pipe and book if the girls wanted him to wait , and John was still at his club . 
So Mary and Margaret grew in love one toward the other ; and Mary told many of her feelings in a way she had never done before to any one . 
Most of her foibles also were made known to Margaret , but not all . 
Yet Mary hoped to meet him every day in her walks , blushed when she heard his name , and tried to think of him as her future husband , and above all , tried to think of herself as his future wife . 
poor Mary ! 
She had other lovers . 
One or two would gladly have kept her company , but she held herself too high , they said . 
Jem Wilson said nothing , but loved on and on , ever more fondly ; he hoped against hope ; he would not give up , for it seemed like giving up life to give up thought of Mary . 
He did not dare to look to any end of all this ; the present , so that he saw her , touched the hem of her garment , was enough . 
He would not relinquish hope , and yet her coldness of manner was enough to daunt any man ; and it made Jem more despairing than he would acknowledge for a long time even to himself . 
She had come in to speak to Mary ; and worn out by a long working , watching night , she fell asleep in the genial warmth . 
What would Mary say ? '' 
`` She 'd nobbut `` Nobbut , '' none but , only . 
Would Mary care ? 
Would she care in the very least ? 
They seemed to call for an answer by night , and by day ; and Jem felt that his heart told him Mary was quite indifferent to any action of his . 
Mary 's father was well aware of the nature of Jem Wilson 's feelings for his daughter , but he took no notice of them to any one , thinking Mary full young yet for the cares of married life , and unwilling , too , to entertain the idea of parting with her at any time , however distant . 
But he welcomed Jem at his house , as he would have done his father 's son , whatever were his motives for coming ; and now and then admitted the thought , that Mary might do worse when her time came , than marry Jem Wilson , a steady workman at a good trade , a good son to his parents , and a fine manly spirited chap -- at least when Mary was not by ; for when she was present he watched her too closely , and too anxiously , to have much of what John Barton called `` spunk '' in him . 
Mary hurried home one evening , just as daylight was fading , from Miss Simmonds ' , with her shawl held up to her mouth , and her head bent as if in deprecation of the meeting wind . 
So she did not perceive Margaret till she was close upon her at the very turning into the court . 
`` Well , Margaret , you 're right welcome , as you know , and I 'll sit down and help you with pleasure , though I was tired enough of sewing to-night at Miss Simmonds ' '' By this time Mary had broken up the raking coal , and lighted her candle ; and Margaret settled herself to her work on one side of the table , while her friend hurried over her tea at the other . 
The things were then lifted en masse to the dresser ; and dusting her side of the table with the apron she always wore at home , Mary took up some breadths and began to run them together . '' 
asked Mary , examining the texture of the dress . 
`` I should have thought girls like them would ha ' made their own gowns , '' observed Mary . 
They said she 'd spend a matter o ' sixty pound on th ' burial . '' 
`` I thought you said she was but badly off , '' said Mary . 
`` This mourning , too , will cost a pretty penny , '' said Mary . 
Did I ever tell you , Mary , what she said one day when she found me taking on about something ? '' 
I would not tell her no more than I would you , Mary ; so she says , ` Well , dear , you must mind this , when you 're going to fret and be low about any thing . 
Oh , Mary , I have so often checked my grumbling sin ' `` Sin ' , '' since . 
`` Sin that his lord was twenty yere of age . '' 
Prologue to Canterbury Tales she said that . '' 
The weary sound of stitching was the only sound heard for a little while , till Mary inquired , `` Do you expect to get paid for this mourning ? '' 
Margaret put down her work with a sigh , and shaded her eyes . 
Then she assumed a cheerful tone , and said , `` You 'll not have to wait long , Mary , for my secret 's on the tip of my tongue . 
Mary ! 
She fell into an agony of tears , while Mary knelt by her , striving to soothe and to comfort her ; but , like an inexperienced person , striving rather to deny the correctness of Margaret 's fear , than helping her to meet and overcome the evil . 
`` No , '' said Margaret , quietly fixing her tearful eyes on Mary ; `` I know I 'm not mistaken . 
But how could I do that , Mary ? 
it will grieve him sore whenever he 's told , so the later the better ; and besides , Mary , we 've sometimes little enough to go upon , and what I earn is a great help . 
There now , Mary , '' continued she , shutting one eye , now you only look like a great black shadow , with the edges dancing and sparkling . '' 
`` It is Mary ! 
`` Oh Mary ! '' 
There 's one thing , Mary , that serves a bit to comfort me . 
He says I may gain ever so much money by singing ; but I do n't know . 
`` Something 's up , '' said Mary . 
She went to the door , and stopping the first person she saw , inquired the cause of the commotion . 
Carsons ' mill is blazing away like fun ; '' and away her informant ran . 
But Mary coaxed in her sweet manner , and with her gentle caresses , promising to help with the gowns all night long if necessary , nay , saying she should quite enjoy it . 
Mary almost wished herself away , so fearful -LRB- as Margaret had said -RRB- was the sight when they joined the crowd assembled to witness the fire . 
exclaimed Mary , as the sea of upward-turned faces moved with one accord to the eastern end , looking into Dunham Street , the narrow back lane already mentioned . 
gasped Mary , as the men were imperceptibly , though not audibly , praying the great multitude below for help . 
Mary sickened with terror . 
She knew he worked for Carsons ; but at first she had had no idea that any lives were in danger ; and since she had become aware of this , the heated air , the roaring flames , the dizzy light , and the agitated and murmuring crowd , had bewildered her thoughts . 
Poor Mary ! 
begged Mary . 
Mary clung to Margaret 's arm with a pinching grasp , and longed to faint , and be insensible , to escape from the oppressing misery of her sensations . 
Mary and Margaret could see now ; right above them danced the ladder in the wind . 
`` It 's Jem Wilson and his father , '' whispered Margaret ; but Mary knew it before . 
As they pressed away , Margaret was left , pale and almost sinking under the weight of Mary 's body , which she had preserved in an upright position by keeping her arms tight round Mary 's waist , dreading , with reason , the trampling of unheeding feet . 
Now , however , she gently let her down on the cold clean pavement ; and the change of posture , and the difference in temperature , now that the people had withdrawn from their close neighbourhood , speedily restored her to consciousness . 
Her first glance was bewildered and uncertain . 
She had forgotten where she was . 
Her cold , hard bed felt strange ; the murky glare in the sky affrighted her . 
She shut her eyes to think , to recollect . 
Her next look was upwards . 
asked Mary . 
He loitered a minute or two alongside of them , giving an account of his detention in the mill ; he then hastily wished good-night , saying he must go home and tell his missis he was all safe and well : but after he had gone a few steps , he turned back , came on Mary 's side of the pavement , and in an earnest whisper , which Margaret could not avoid hearing , he said , `` Mary , if my boy comes across you to-night , give him a kind word or two for my sake . 
Mary hung her head and answered not a word , and in an instant he was gone . 
When it was ended he swore -LRB- an unusual thing for him -RRB- that if Jem Wilson wanted Mary he should have her to-morrow , if he had not a penny to keep her . 
Margaret laughed , but Mary , who was now recovered from her agitation , pouted and looked angry . 
One evening , when the clear light at six o'clock contrasted strangely with the Christmas cold , and when the bitter wind piped down every entry , and through every cranny , Barton sat brooding over his stinted fire , and listening for Mary 's step , in unacknowledged trust that her presence would cheer him . 
Mary would have her tea at Miss Simmonds ' ; her food for the day was safe . 
The children clamoured again for bread ; but this time Barton took a piece first to the poor , helpless , hopeless woman , who still sat by the side of her husband , listening to his anxious miserable mutterings . 
She took the bread , when it was put into her hand , and broke a bit , but could not eat . 
She was past hunger . 
She fell down on the floor with a heavy unresisting bang . 
I 've but gotten Mary , and she keeps hersel pretty much . 
He was anxious to be in time to have a look and a smile from lovely Mary Barton , as she went to Miss Simmonds ' But to-day he was to be disappointed . 
It was Mary , who had received a message from her father , through a neighbour , telling her where he was ; and she had set out early to come and have a word with him before her day 's work ; but some errands she had to do for Miss Simmonds had detained her until now . 
Mary did not know what to say , or how to comfort ; but she knelt down by her , and put her arm round her neck , and in a little while fell to crying herself so bitterly that the source of tears was opened by sympathy in the widow , and her full heart , was , for a time , relieved . 
And Mary forgot all purposed meeting with her gay lover , Harry Carson ; forgot Miss Simmonds ' errands , and her anger , in the anxious desire to comfort the poor lone woman . 
Would Mrs. Davenport and the little child go home with Mary ? 
The latter brightened up as she urged this plan ; but no ! 
where the poor , fondly loved remains were , there would the mourner be ; and all that they could do was to make her as comfortable as their funds would allow , and to beg a neighbour to look in and say a word at times . 
So she was left alone with her dead , and they went to work that had work , and he who had none , took upon him the arrangements for the funeral . 
Mary had many a scolding from Miss Simmonds that day for her absence of mind . 
To be sure Miss Simmonds was much put out by Mary 's non-appearance in the morning with certain bits of muslin , and shades of silk which were wanted to complete a dress to be worn that night ; but it was true enough that Mary did not mind what she was about ; she was too busy planning how her old black gown -LRB- her best when her mother died -RRB- might be spunged , and turned , and lengthened into something like decent mourning for the widow . 
Barton and Wilson both accompanied her , as she led her two elder boys , and followed the coffin . 
Decently and quietly was he followed to the grave by one determined to endure her woe meekly for his sake . 
She told Mary of it as she entered the court late that evening ; and Mary listened with saddened heart to the strange contrast which such woeful tidings presented to the gay and loving words she had been hearing on her walk home . 
She blamed herself for being so much taken up with visions of the golden future , that she had lately gone but seldom on Sunday afternoons , or other leisure time , to see Mrs. Wilson , her mother 's friend ; and with hasty purpose of amendment she only stayed to leave a message for her father with the next-door neighbour , and then went off at a brisk pace on her way to the house of mourning . 
Mary stepped slowly and lightly across to Alice . 
God has taken him early , Mary . '' 
Mary could not speak ; she did not know what to say ; it was so much worse than she had expected . 
At last she ventured to whisper . 
said Mary , in a tone of inquiry . 
So without circumlocution she went and offered to take the sinking child . 
Alice and Mary stood by with eyes fixed on the poor child , whose struggles seemed to increase , till at last his mother said with a choking voice , `` May happen `` May happen , '' perhaps . 
Again Alice laid out the dead , Mary helping with reverent fear . 
Mary and Alice drew near the fire , and stood in quiet sorrow for some time . 
asked Mary . 
Mary helped her in all these little offices . 
They were busy in this way when the door was softly opened , and Jem came in , all grimed and dirty from his nightwork , his soiled apron wrapped round his middle , in guise and apparel in which he would have been sorry at another time to have been seen by Mary . 
But just now he hardly saw her ; he went straight up to Alice , and asked how the little chaps were . 
Mary 's heart melted within her as she witnessed Jem 's sorrow , and she stepped gently up to the corner where he stood , with his back turned to them , and putting her hand softly on his arm , said , `` Oh , Jem , do n't give way so ; I can not bear to see you . '' 
Jem felt a strange leap of joy in his heart , and knew the power she had of comforting him . 
He did not speak , as though fearing to destroy by sound or motion the happiness of that moment , when her soft hand 's touch thrilled through his frame , and her silvery voice was whispering tenderness in his ear . 
it might be very wrong ; he could almost hate himself for it ; with death and woe so surrounding him , it yet was happiness , was bliss , to be so spoken to by Mary . 
`` Do n't , Jem , please do n't , '' whispered she again , believing that his silence was only another form of grief . 
He took her hand in his firm yet trembling grasp , and said , in tones that instantly produced a revulsion in her mood , `` Mary , I almost loathe myself when I feel I would not give up this minute , when my brothers lie dead , and father and mother are in such trouble , for all my life that 's past and gone . 
And , Mary -LRB- as she tried to release her hand -RRB- , you know what makes me feel so blessed . '' 
She did know -- he was right there . 
But as he turned to catch a look at her sweet face , he saw that it expressed unfeigned distress , almost amounting to vexation ; a dread of him , that he though was almost repugnance . 
He let her hand go , and she quickly went away to Alice 's side . 
`` Fool that I was -- nay , wretch that I was -- to let myself take this time of trouble to tell her how I loved her ; no wonder that she turns away from such a selfish beast . '' 
Partly to relieve her from his presence , and partly from natural desire , and partly , perhaps , from a penitent wish to share to the utmost his parents ' sorrow , he soon went up-stairs to the chamber of death . 
Mary mechanically helped Alice in all the duties she performed through the remainder of that long night , but she did not see Jem again . 
He remained up-stairs until after the early dawn showed Mary that she need have no fear of going home through the deserted and quiet streets , to try and get a little sleep before work-hour . 
Mary lay down on her bed in her clothes ; and whether it was this , or the broad daylight that poured in through the sky window , or whether it was over-excitement , it was long before she could catch a wink of sleep . 
Her thoughts ran on Jem 's manner and words ; not but what she had known the tale they told for many a day ; but still she wished he had not put it so plainly . 
`` Oh dear , '' said she to herself , `` I wish he would not mistake me so ; I never dare to speak a common word o ' kindness , but his eye brightens and his cheek flushes . 
So she turned on her pillow , and fell asleep , and dreamt of what was often in her waking thoughts ; of the day when she should ride from church in her carriage , with wedding-bells ringing , and take up her astonished father , and drive away from the old dim work-a-day court for ever , to live in a grand house , where her father should have newspapers , and pamphlets , and pipes , and meat dinners , every day , -- and all day long if he liked . 
Such thoughts mingled in her predilection for the handsome young Mr. Carson , who , unfettered by work-hours , let scarcely a day pass without contriving a meeting with the beautiful little milliner he had first seen while lounging in a shop where his sisters were making some purchases , and afterwards never rested till he had freely , though respectfully , made her acquaintance in her daily walks . 
He was , to use his own expression to himself , quite infatuated by her , and was restless each day till the time came when he had a chance , and , of late , more than a chance of meeting her . 
There was something of keen practical shrewdness about her , which constrasted very bewitchingly with the simple , foolish , unworldly ideas she had picked up from the romances which Miss Simmonds ' young ladies were in the habit of recommending to each other . 
Mary was ambitious , and did not favour Mr. Carson the less because he was rich and a gentleman . 
The old leaven , infused years ago by her aunt Esther , fermented in her little bosom , and perhaps all the more , for her father 's aversion to the rich and the gentle . 
So Mary dwelt upon and enjoyed the idea of some day becoming a lady , and doing all the elegant nothings appertaining to lady-hood . 
Such were the castles in air , the Alnaschar-visions in which Mary indulged , and which she was doomed in after days to expiate with many tears . 
Meanwhile , her words -- or , even more , her tones -- would maintain their hold on Jem Wilson 's memory . 
A thrill would yet come over him when he remembered how her hand had rested on his arm . 
The thought of her mingled with all his grief , and it was profound , for the loss of his brothers . 
His dark black hair had been arranged and re-arranged before the household looking-glass , and in his buttonhole he stuck a narcissus -LRB- a sweet Nancy is its pretty Lancashire name -RRB- , hoping it would attract Mary 's notice , so that he might have the delight of giving it her . 
It was a bad beginning of his visit of happiness that Mary saw him some minutes before he came into her father 's house . 
She was sitting at the end of the dresser , with the little window-blind drawn on one side , in order that she might see the passers-by , in the intervals of reading her Bible , which lay open before her . 
So she watched all the greeting a friend gave Jem ; she saw the face of condolence , the sympathetic shake of the hand , and had time to arrange her own face and manner before Jem came in , which he did , as if he had eyes for no one but her father , who sat smoking his pipe by the fire , while he read an old `` Northern Star , '' borrowed from a neighbouring public-house . 
Then he turned to Mary , who , he felt by the sure instinct of love , by which almost his body thought , was present . 
Her hands were busy adjusting her dress ; a forced and unnecessary movement Jem could not help thinking . 
Her accost was quiet and friendly , if grave ; she felt that she reddened like a rose , and wished she could prevent it , while Jem wondered if her blushes arose from fear , or anger , or love . 
She was very cunning , I am afraid . 
She pretended to read diligently , and not to listen to a word that was said , while in fact she heard all sounds , even to Jem 's long , deep sighs , which wrung her heart . 
At last she took up her Bible , and as if their conversation disturbed her , went up stairs to her little room . 
And she had scarcely spoken a word to Jem ; scarcely looked at him ; never noticed his beautiful sweet Nancy , which only awaited her least word of praise to be hers ! 
Jem was pondering Mary 's conduct ; but the pause made him aware he ought to utter some civil listening noise ; so he said `` Very true . '' 
He gave up hope of seeing Mary again by her own good free will ; and the next best thing would be , to be alone to think of her . 
Job Legh had early established himself and his pipe by John Barton 's fire , not saying much , but puffing away , and imagining himself of use in adjusting the smoothing-irons that hung before the fire , ready for Mary when she should want them . 
As for Mary , her employment was the same as that of Beau Tibbs ' wife , `` Just washing her father 's two shirts , '' in the pantry back-kitchen ; for she was anxious about his appearance in London . 
The door stood open , as usual , between the houseplace and back-kitchen , so she gave her greeting to their friends as they entered . 
In her hand she brought a little newspaper parcel , which she took to Mary , who opened it , and then called out , dangling a shirt collar from her soapy fingers : `` See , father , what a dandy you 'll be in London ! 
`` Eh , Mary ! '' 
But , Mary , sure I can help ye , for you 'll be busy wi ' this journey . '' 
Mary watched him set off , with her hands over her eyes to shade them from the bright slanting rays of the morning sun , and then she turned into the house to arrange its disorder before going to her work . 
She wondered if she should like or dislike the evening and morning solitude ; for several hours when the clock struck she thought of her father , and wondered where he was ; she made good resolutions according to her lights ; and by-and-bye came the distractions and events of the broad full day to occupy her with the present , and to deaden the memory of the absent . 
One of Mary 's resolutions was , that she would not be persuaded or induced to see Mr. Harry Carson during her father 's absence . 
There was something crooked in her conscience after all ; for this very resolution seemed an acknowledgment that it was wrong to meet him at any time ; and yet she had brought herself to think her conduct quite innocent and proper , for although unknown to her father , and certain , even did he know it , to fail of obtaining his sanction , she esteemed her love-meetings with Mr. Carson as sure to end in her father 's good and happiness . 
But now that he was away , she would do nothing that he would disapprove of ; no , not even though it was for his own good in the end . 
Now , amongst Miss Simmonds ' young ladies was one , who had been from the beginning a confidant in Mary 's love affair , made so by Mr. Carson himself . 
Still neither she , nor her daughter , nor Harry Carson liked this resolution of Mary , not to see him during her father 's absence . 
One evening -LRB- and the early summer evenings were long and bright now -RRB- , Sally met Mr. Carson by appointment , to be charged with a letter for Mary , imploring her to see him , which Sally was to back with all her powers of persuasion . 
After parting from him she determined , as it was not so very late , to go at once to Mary 's , and deliver the message and letter . 
She found Mary in great sorrow . 
She had just heard of George Wilson 's sudden death : her old friend , her father 's friend , Jem 's father -- all his claims came rushing upon her . 
Though not guarded from unnecessary sight or sound of death , as the children of the rich are , yet it had so often been brought home to her this last three or four months . 
Her father , too , who had dreaded Jane Wilson 's death the evening before he set off . 
said Mary , with a toss of her pretty head . 
You 've been sighing as if your heart would break now for several days , over your work ; now , ar n't you a little goose not to go and see one who I am sure loves you as his life , and whom you love ; ` How much , Mary ? ' 
` This much , ' as the children say '' -LRB- opening her arms very wide -RRB- . 
`` Nonsense , '' said Mary , pouting ; `` I often think I do n't love him at all . '' 
`` If you like , '' replied Mary . 
She saw she had gone on the wrong tack , and that Mary 's heart was too full to value either message or letter as she ought . 
So she wisely paused in their delivery , and said , in a more sympathetic tone than she had hitherto used , `` Do tell me , Mary , what 's fretting you so ? 
`` George Wilson 's dropped down dead this afternoon , '' said Mary , fixing her eyes for one minute on Sally , and the next hiding her face in her apron as she sobbed anew . 
`` I do n't know who you mean , '' said Mary , sharply ; for she did know , and did not like to have her dear , simple Alice to spoken of . 
`` Come , Mary , do n't be so innocent . 
I have n't seen her hereabouts lately . '' 
`` No , she 's left living here . 
When the twins died , she thought she could , may be , be of use to her sister , who was sadly cast down , and Alice thought she could cheer her up ; at any rate she could listen to her when her heart grew overburdened ; so she gave up her cellar and went to live with them . '' 
I 'd no fancy for her , and I 'd no fancy for her making my pretty Mary into a Methodee . '' 
`` She was n't a Methodee , she was Church o ' England . '' 
`` Well , well , Mary , you 're very particular . 
`` I do n't know , and do n't care , '' said Mary , turning very red . 
`` Well , give it me , '' said Mary , impatiently , and anxious in her present mood for her visitor 's departure . 
She had , however , the pleasure of seeing Mary dimple and blush as she read the letter , which seemed to say the writer was not indifferent to her . 
`` You must tell him I ca n't come , '' said Mary , raising her eyes at last . 
`` But Mary , he does so look for you . 
Mary flashed up . 
Mary had begged Job Legh to let her come and sleep with her . 
In the uncertain fire-light you could not help noticing that she had the groping walk of a blind person . 
`` Well , I must go , Mary , '' said Sally . 
`` Margaret , '' said Mary , who had been closely observing her friend , `` thou ` rt very blind to-night , art n't thou ? 
She held up a bright golden sovereign . 
Mary opened her large gray eyes with astonishment . 
asked Mary . 
`` Why , Mary , '' said Margaret , half smiling , `` I 'm a bit loth to tell yo , for unless yo knew grandfather 's ways like me , yo 'd think it strange . 
Though Mary caught the sigh , she felt it was better to let it pass without notice , and began with the tact which true sympathy rarely fails to supply , to ask a variety of questions respecting her friend 's musical début , which tended to bring out more distinctly how successful it had been . 
`` Why , Margaret , '' at length she exclaimed , `` thou ` lt become as famous , may be , as that grand lady fra ' London , as we seed one night driving up to th ' concert room door in her carriage . '' 
`` And be sure , Mary , I 'll not forget to give thee a lift now an ' then when that comes about . 
Mary , what a pity there is n't more o ' that way , and less scolding and rating i ' th ' world ! 
When it was ended , Mary 's looks told more than words could have done what she thought of it ; and partly to keep in a tear which would fain have rolled out , she brightened into a laugh , and said , `` for certain , th ' carriage is coming . 
Mary had to change her clothes after her walk home ; and had hardly settled herself before she heard some one fumbling at the door . 
The noise continued long enough to allow her to get up , and go and open it . 
yes it was , her father ! 
He came in with no word to Mary in return for her cheery and astonished greeting . 
But Mary would not let him so rest . 
She ran up and brought down his working-day clothes , and went into the pantry to rummage up their little bit of provision while he changed by the fire , talking all the while as gaily as she could , though her father 's depression hung like lead on her heart . 
For Mary , in her seclusion at Miss Simmonds ' , -- where the chief talk was of fashions , and dress , and parties to be given , for which such and such gowns would be wanted , varied with a slight whispered interlude occasionally about love and lovers , -- had not heard the political news of the day : that parliament had refused to listen to the working-men , when they petitioned with all the force of their rough , untutored words to be heard concerning the distress which was riding , like the Conqueror on his Pale Horse , among the people ; which was crushing their lives out of them , and stamping woe-marks over the land . 
When he had eaten and was refreshed , they sat in silence for some time ; for Mary wished him to tell her what oppressed him so , yet durst not ask . 
In this she was wise ; for when we are heavy laden in our hearts it falls in better with our humour to reveal our case in our own way , and our own time . 
Mary sat on a stool at her father 's feet in old childish guise , and stole her hand into his , while his sadness infected her , and she `` caught the trick of grief , and sighed , '' she knew not why . 
`` Mary , we mun speak to our God to hear us , for man will not hearken ; no , not now , when we weep tears o ' blood . '' 
In an instant Mary understood the fact , if not the details , that so weighed down her father 's heart . 
She pressed his hand with silent sympathy . 
She did not know what to say , and was so afraid of speaking wrongly , that she was silent . 
But when his attitude had remained unchanged for more than half-an-hour , his eyes gazing vacantly and fixedly at the fire , no sound but now and then a deep drawn sigh to break the weary ticking of the clock , and the drip-drop from the roof without , Mary could bear it no longer . 
Any thing to rouse her father . 
-LRB- Her hand was suddenly and almost violently compressed . -RRB- 
Her tears were ready to flow as she looked up in her father 's face for sympathy . 
Mary got up under pretence of going to tell Margaret that she need not come to sleep with her to-night , but really to ask Job Legh to come and cheer her father . 
She stopped outside the door . 
The old Hebrew prophetic words fell like dew on Mary 's heart . 
She could not interrupt . 
She stood listening and `` comforted , '' till the little buzz of conversation again began , and then entered and told her errand . 
Both grandfather and grand-daughter rose instantly to fulfil her request . 
`` He 's just tired out , Mary , '' said old Job . 
`` Do tell us all about London , dear father , '' asked Mary , who was sitting at her old post by her father 's knee . 
`` Did you ever hear tell , '' said he to Mary , `` that I were in London once ? '' 
said she , with surprise , and looking at Job with increased respect . 
`` But , '' said Mary , `` you said the young man were a neighbour . '' 
So you see , Mary , that was the way I got to London . '' 
asked Mary , anxiously . 
-LRB- there 's Mary asleep for a good listener ! -RRB- 
Then , almost simultaneously , their attention fell upon Mary . 
Sitting on her little stool , her head resting on her father 's knee , and sleeping as soundly as any infant , her breath -LRB- still like an infant 's -RRB- came and went as softly as a bird steals to her leafy nest . 
Her half-open mouth was as scarlet as the winter-berries , and contrasted finely with the clear paleness of her complexion , where the eloquent blood flushed carnation at each motion . 
Her black eye-lashes lay on the delicate cheek , which was still more shaded by the masses of her golden hair , that seemed to form a nest-like pillow for her as she lay . 
Her father in fond pride straightened one glossy curl , for an instant , as if to display its length and silkiness . 
The little action awoke her , and , like nine out of ten people in similar circumstances , she exclaimed , opening her eyes to their fullest extent , `` I 'm not asleep . 
Even her father could not keep from smiling , and Job Legh and Margaret laughed outright . 
`` Mary ! 
More they 're heard and read and the better , say I. '' So Mary took the paper . 
And the next day , on the blank half sheet of a valentine , all bordered with hearts and darts -- a valentine she had once suspected to come from Jem Wilson -- she copied Bamford 's beautiful little poem . 
Mary , too , was secure of two meals a day at Miss Simmonds ' ; though by the way , the dress-maker , too , feeling the effect of bad times , had left off giving tea to her apprentices , setting them the example of long abstinence by putting off her own meal until work was done for the night , however late that might be . 
It was half-a-crown a week -- nearly all Mary 's earnings -- and much less room might do for them , only two . 
But he was a law unto himself , though sometimes a bad , fierce law ; and he resolved to give the rent-collector notice , and look out for a cheaper abode , and tell Mary they must flit . 
Poor Mary ! 
she loved the house , too . 
It was wrenching up her natural feelings of home , for it would be long before the fibres of her heart would gather themselves about another place . 
And by-and-bye Mary began to part with other superfluities at the pawn-shop . 
The smart tea-tray , and tea-caddy , long and carefully kept , went for bread for her father . 
He did not ask for it , or complain , but she saw hunger in his shrunk , fierce , animal look . 
Then the blankets went , for it was summer time , and they could spare them ; and their sale made a fund , which Mary fancied would last till better times came . 
But it was soon all gone ; and then she looked around the room to crib it of its few remaining ornaments . 
To all these proceedings her father said never a word . 
If he fasted , or feasted -LRB- after the sale of some article -RRB- , on an unusual meal of bread and cheese , he took all with a sullen indifference , which depressed Mary 's heart . 
She often wished he would apply for relief from the Guardians 's relieving office ; often wondered the Trades ' Union did nothing for him . 
Once when she asked him as he sat , grimed , unshaven , and gaunt , after a day 's fasting over the fire , why he did not get relief from the town , he turned round , with grim wrath , and said , `` I do n't want money , child ! 
Mary went early to her work ; but her cheery laugh over it was now missed by the other girls . 
Her mind wandered over the present distress , and then settled , as she stitched , on the visions of the future , where yet her thoughts dwelt more on the circumstances of ease , and the pomps and vanities awaiting her , than on the lover with whom she was to share them . 
Still she was not insensible to the pride of having attracted one so far above herself in station ; not insensible to the secret pleasure of knowing that he , whom so many admired , had often said he would give anything for one of her sweet smiles . 
Her love for him was a bubble , blown out of vanity ; but it looked very real and very bright . 
Sally Leadbitter , meanwhile , keenly observed the signs of the times ; she found out that Mary had begun to affix a stern value to money as the `` Purchaser of Life , '' and many girls had been dazzled and lured by gold , even without the betraying love which she believed to exist in Mary 's heart . 
So she urged young Mr. Carson , by representations of the want she was sure surrounded Mary , to bring matters more to a point . 
But he had a kind of instinctive dread of hurting Mary 's pride of spirit , and durst not hint his knowledge in any way of the distress that many must be enduring . 
He felt that for the present he must still be content with stolen meetings and summer evening strolls , and the delight of pouring sweet honeyed words into her ear , while she listened with a blush and a smile that made her look radiant with beauty . 
No , he would be cautions in order to be certain ; for Mary one way , or another , he must make his . 
If he had know what Mary 's home was , he would not have been so much convinced of his increasing influence over her , by her being more and more ready to linger with him in the sweet summer air . 
For when she returned for the night her father was often out , and the house wanted the cheerful look it had had in the days when money was never wanted to purchase soap and brushes , black-lead and pipe-clay . 
And Alice ; oh , Mary wished she had never left her cellar to go and live at Ancoats with her sister-in-law . 
For in that matter Mary felt very guilty ; she had put off and put off going to see the widow after George Wilson 's death from dread of meeting Jem , or giving him reason to think she wished to be as intimate with him as formerly ; and now she was so much ashamed of her delay that she was likely never to go at all . 
If her father was at home it was no better ; indeed it was worse . 
He seldom spoke , less than ever ; and often when he did speak they were sharp angry words , such as he had never given her formerly . 
Her temper was high , too , and her answers not overmild ; and once in his passion he had even beaten her . 
If Sally Leadbitter or Mr. Carson had been at hand at that moment , Mary would have been ready to leave home for ever . 
She sat alone , after her father had flung out of the house , bitterly thinking on the days that were gone ; angry with her own hastiness , and believing that her father did not love her ; striving to heap up one painful thought on another . 
Who cared for her ? 
Father so often angry , so lately cruel -LRB- for it was a hard blow , and blistered and reddened Mary 's soft white skin with pain -RRB- : and then her heart turned round , and she remembered with self-reproach how provokingly she had looked and spoken , and how much her father had to bear ; and oh , what a kind and loving parent he had been , till these days of trial . 
The remembrance of one little instance of his fatherly love thronged after another into her mind , and she began to wonder how she could have behaved to him as she had done . 
Then he came home ; and but for very shame she would have confessed her penitence in words . 
But she looked sullen , from her effort to keep down emotion ; and for some time her father did not know how to begin to speak . 
At length he gulped down pride , and said : `` Mary , I 'm not above saying I 'm very sorry I beat thee . 
So he held out his arms , and in many tears she told him her repentance for her fault . 
He never struck her again . 
Oh , how Mary loathed that smell ! 
And in the dusk , just before it merged into the short summer night , she had learned to look with dread towards the window , which now her father would have kept uncurtained ; for there were not seldom seen sights which haunted her in her dreams . 
Strange faces of pale men , with dark glaring eyes , peered into the inner darkness , and seemed desirous to ascertain if her father was at home . 
And once or twice , when Mary was in bed , she heard men 's voices below , in earnest , whispered talk . 
While all this change for gloom yet struck fresh and heavy on Mary 's heart , her father startled her out of a reverie one evening , by asking her when she had been to see Jane Wilson . 
From his manner of speaking , she was made aware that he had been ; but at the time of his visit he had never mentioned any thing about it . 
Now , however , he gruffly told her to go next day without fail , and added some abuse of her for not having been before . 
The little outward impulse of her father 's speech gave Mary the push , which she , in this instance required ; and accordingly , timing her visit so as to avoid Jem 's hours at home , she went the following afternoon to Ancoats . 
The outside of the well-known house struck her as different ; for the door was closed , instead of open , as it once had always stood . 
the dinner things , and talking all the time , in a kind of whining , shouting voice , which Mary did not at first understand . 
She understood , at once , however , that her absence had been noted , and talked over ; she saw a constrained look on Mrs. Wilson 's sorrow-stricken face , which told her a scolding was to come . 
Mary , is that you ? '' 
She wished to show Mary how much she was offended , and meant to strengthen her cause , by putting some of her own sharp speeches into Jem 's mouth . 
Mary felt guilty , and had no good reason to give as an apology ; so for a minute she stood silent , looking very much ashamed , and then turned to speak to aunt Alice , who , in her surprised , hearty greeting to Mary , had dropped her ball of worsted , and was busy trying to set the thread to rights , before the kitten had entangled it past redemption , once round every chair , and twice round the table . 
`` You mun speak louder than that , if you mean her to hear ; she 's become as deaf as a post this last few weeks . 
I 'd ha ' told you , if I 'd remembered how long it were sin ' you 'd seen her . '' 
`` He was such a good husband , '' said she , in a less excited tone , to Mary , as she looked up with tearstreaming-eyes from behind her apron . 
`` No one can tell what I 've lost in him , for no one knew his worth like me . '' 
Mary 's listening sympathy softened her , and she went on to unburden her heavy laden heart . 
And yet I 'm here , and he 's '' -- A fresh burst of crying interrupted her speech . 
`` Mary , '' beginning to speak again , -- `` did you ever hear what a poor creature I were when he married me ? 
Mary had heard , and so she said . 
But the poor woman 's thoughts had gone back to those days , and her little recollections came out , with many interruptions of sighs , and tears , and shakes of the head . 
And there was Bessy Witter as would ha ' given her eyes for him ; she as is Mrs. Carson now , for she were a handsome lass , although I never could see her beauty then ; and Carson war n't so much above her , as they 're both above us all now . '' 
Mary went very red , and wished she could help doing so , and wished also that Mrs. Wilson would tell her more about the father and mother of her lover ; but she durst not ask , and Mrs. Wilson 's thoughts soon returned to her husband , and their early married days . 
`` If you 'll believe me , Mary , there never was such a born goose at house-keeping as I were ; and yet he married me ! 
Mary , th ' water had boiled away , and they were all a nasty brown mass , as smelt through all the house . 
He said nought , and were very gentle ; but , oh , Mary , I cried so that afternoon . 
`` Father does not like girls to work in factories , '' said Mary . 
I could reckon up , '' -LRB- counting with her finger -RRB- `` ay , nine men I know , as has been driven to th ' public-house by having wives as worked in factories ; good folk , too , as though there was no harm in putting their little ones out at nurse , and letting their house go all dirty and their fires all out ; and that was a place as was tempting for a husband to stay in , was it ? 
Mary ventured to say that she thought the Queen and Prince Albert could not make laws , but the answer was , `` Pooh ! 
Mary went very red , and looked annoyed , although there was a secret spring of joy deep down in her heart , at hearing Jem so spoken of . 
Still she could not bear any one not to feel gratified and flattered by Jem 's preference , and full well she knew how above all others he preferred Mary . 
Now she had never thought Mary good enough for Jem , and her late neglect in coming to see her , still rankled a little in her breast . 
So she determined to invent a little , in order to do away with any idea Mary might have that Jem would choose her for `` his right down good wife , '' as aunt Alice called it . 
I thought once he 'd a fancy for thee , Mary , but I donnot think yo 'd ever ha ' suited , so it 's best as it is . '' 
By an effort Mary managed to keep down her vexation , and to say , `` She hoped he 'd be happy with Molly Gibson . 
She was very handsome , for certain . '' 
I 'll just step upstairs and show you the patchwork quilt she gave me but last Saturday . 
Mary was glad she was going out of the room . 
Her words irritated her ; perhaps not the less because she did not fully believe them . 
Besides , she wanted to speak to Alice , and Mrs. Wilson seemed to think that she , as the widow , ought to absorb all the attention . 
`` Dear Alice , '' began Mary , `` I 'm so grieved to find you so deaf ; it must have come on very rapid . '' 
The splendid red and yellow patch quilt now made its appearance , and Jane Wilson would not be satisfied unless Mary praised it all over , border centre , and ground-work , right side and wrong ; and Mary did her duty , saying all the more , because she could not work herself up to any very hearty admiration of her rival 's present . 
She made haste , however , with her commendations , in order to avoid encountering Jem . 
As soon as she was fairly away from the house and street , she slackened her pace , and began to think . 
People seemed all to think he was much too good for her -LRB- Mary 's own self -RRB- . 
Perhaps some one else , far more handsome , and far more grand , would show him one day that she was good enough to be Mrs. Henry Carson . 
So temper , or what Mary called `` spirit , '' led her to encourage Mr. Carson more than ever she had done before . 
listen to me for Mary 's sake ! '' 
and thou thinks the thought of her will bring thee mercy ! 
Dost thou know it was thee who killed her , as sure as ever Cain killed Abel . 
She 'd loved thee as her own , and she trusted thee as her own , and when thou wert gone she never held head up again , but died in less than a three week ; and at her judgment day she 'll rise , and point to thee as her murderer ; or if she do n't , I will . '' 
Oh , what shall I do to save Mary 's child ! 
How can I keep her from being such a one as I am ; such a wretched , loathsome creature ! 
She was listening just as I listened , and loving just as I loved , and the end will be just like my end . 
How shall I save her ? 
She wo n't hearken to warning , or heed it more than I did ; and who loves her well enough to watch over her as she should be watched ? 
God keep her from harm ! 
And yet I wo n't pray for her ; sinner that I am ! 
How shall I save her ? 
He often looked at Mary , and wished she were not so like her aunt , for the very bodily likeness seemed to suggest the possibility of a similar likeness in their fate ; and then this idea enraged his irritable mind , and he became suspicious and anxious about Mary 's conduct . 
Now hitherto she had been so remarkably free from all control , and almost from all inquiry concerning her actions , that she did not brook this change in her father 's behaviour very well . 
Just when she was yielding more than ever to Mr. Carson 's desire of frequent meetings , it was hard to be so questioned concerning her hours of leaving off work , whether she had come straight home , & c . 
She could not tell lies ; though she could conceal much if she were not questioned . 
So she took refuge in obstinate silence , alleging as a reason for it her indignation at being so cross-examined . 
Her father now began to wish Mary were married . 
But he was afraid Mary had slighted him , he came so seldom now to the house . 
He would ask her . 
`` Mary , what 's come o'er thee and Jem Wilson ? 
`` Oh , folk say he 's going to be married to Molly Gibson , and of course courting takes up a deal o ' time , '' answered Mary , as indifferently as she could . 
`` Thou ` st played thy cards badly , then , '' replied her father , in a surly tone . 
`` That 's as people think , '' said Mary , pertly , for she remembered that the very morning before she had met Mr. Carson , who had sighed , and swore , and protested all manner of tender vows that she was the loveliest , sweetest , best , & c. And when she had seen him afterwards riding with one of his beautiful sisters , had he not evidently pointed her out as in some way or other an object worthy of attention and interest , and then lingered behind his sister 's horse for a moment to kiss his hand repeatedly . 
Both mother and aunt he believed would welcome Mary . 
He almost smiled at himself for his care in washing and dressing in preparation for his visit to Mary ; as if one waistcoat or another could decide his fate in so passionately a momentuous thing . 
`` Come in , '' said Mary , as some one knocked at the door , while she sat sadly at her sweing , trying to earn a few pence by working over hours at some mourning . 
Yet here was Mary all alone , just as he had hoped to find her . 
She did not ask him to take a chair , but after standing a minute or two he sat down near her . 
`` Is your father at home , Mary ? '' 
said he , by way of making an opening , for she seemed determined to keep silence , and went on stitching away . 
`` Mary ! '' 
said he , and the unusual tone of his voice made her look up for an instant , but in that time she understood from his countenance what was coming , and her heart beat so suddenly and violently she could hardly sit still . 
Yet one thing she was sure of ; nothing he could say should make her have him . 
She would show them all who would be glad to have her . 
She was not yet calm after her father 's irritating speeches . 
Yet her eyes fell veiled before that passionate look fixed upon her . 
`` Dear Mary ! 
But now , Mary , I 'm foreman in th ' works , and , dear Mary ! 
listen , '' as she , in her unbearable agitation , stood up and turned away from him . 
He rose too , and came nearer , trying to take hold of her hand ; but this she would not allow . 
She was bracing herself up to refuse him , for once and for all . 
`` And now , Mary , I 've a home to offer you , and a heart as true as ever man had to love you and cherish you ; we shall never be rich folk , I dare say ; but if a loving heart and a strong right arm can shield you from sorrow , or from want , mine shall do it . 
She could not speak at once ; her words would not come . 
`` Mary , they say silence gives consent ; is it so ? '' 
Her voice was calm , although she trembled from head to foot . 
`` Oh , Mary , think awhile ! 
And Mary ! 
Jem intended this for a powerful argument , but in Mary 's present mood it told against him more than any thing ; for it suggested the false and foolish idea , that her father , in his evident anxiety to promote her marriage with Jem , had been speaking to him on the subject with some degree of solicitation . 
`` Mary ! 
You wo n't even say you 'll try and like me ; will you , Mary ! '' 
said he , suddenly changing his tone from threatening despair to fond passionate entreaty , as he took her hand and held it forcibly between both of his , while he tried to catch a glimpse of her averted face . 
She was silent , but it was from deep and violent emotion . 
He could not bear to wait ; he would not hope , to be dashed away again ; he rather in his bitterness of heart chose the certainty of despair , and before she could resolve what to answer , he flung away her hand and rushed out of the house . 
cried she , with faint and choking voice . 
It was scarcely ten minutes since he had entered the house , and found Mary at comparative peace , and now she lay half across the dresser , her head hidden in her hands , and every part of her body shaking with the violence of her sobs . 
She could not have told at first -LRB- if you had asked her , and she could have commanded voice enough to answer -RRB- why she was in such agonised grief . 
It was too sudden for her to analyse , or think upon it . 
She only felt , that by her own doing her life would be hereafter blank and dreary . 
By-and-bye her sorrow exhausted her body by its power , and she seemed to have no strength left for crying . 
She sat down ; and now thoughts crowded on her mind . 
One little hour ago , and all was still unsaid , and she had her fate in her own power . 
And yet , how long ago had she determined to say pretty much what she did , if the occasion ever offered . 
It was as if two people were arguing the matter ; that mournful , desponding communion between her former self , and her present self . 
To return to Mary . 
Her plan had been , as we well know , to marry Mr. Carson , and the occurrence an hour ago was only a preliminary step . 
True ; but it had unveiled her heart to her ; it had convinced her that she loved Jem above all persons or things . 
She soon became aware of the present state of Mary 's feelings , but she thought they merely arose from the changeableness of girlhood , and that the time would come when Mary would thank her for almost forcing her to keep up her meetings and communications with her rich lover . 
So , when two days had passed over in rather too marked avoidance of Sally on Mary 's part ; and when the former was made aware , by Mr. Carson 's complaints that Mary was not keeping her appointments with him , and that unless he detained her by force , he had no chance of obtaining a word as she passed him in the street on her rapid walk home ; she resolved to compel Mary to what she called her own good . 
She took no notice during the third day of Mary 's avoidance as they sat at work ; she rather seemed to acquiesce in the coolness of their intercourse . 
She put away her sewing early , and went home to her mother , who , she said , was more ailing than usual . 
The other girls soon followed her example , and Mary , casting a rapid glance up and down the street , as she stood last on Miss Simmonds ' door-step , darted homewards , in hopes of avoiding the person whom she was fast learning to dread . 
That night she was safe from any encounter on her road , and she arrived at home , which she found as she expected , empty ; for she knew it was a club night , which her father would not miss . 
She sat down to recover breath , and to still her heart , which panted more from nervousness than from over-exertion , although she had walked so quickly . 
Then she arose , and taking off her bonnet , her eye caught the form of Sally Leadbitter passing the window with a lingering step , and looking into the darkness with all her might as if to ascertain if Mary were returned . 
In an instant she repassed and knocked at the house-door , but without awaiting an answer , she entered . 
`` Well , Mary , dear , '' -LRB- knowing well how little `` dear '' Mary considered her just then -RRB- ; `` it 's so difficult to get any comfortable talk at Miss Simmonds ' , I thought I 'd just step up and see you at home . '' 
`` I understood from what you said your mother was ailing , and that you wanted to be with her , '' replied Mary , in no welcoming tone . 
looking round as well as she could ; for Mary made no haste to perform the hospitable offices of striking a match , and lighting a candle . 
`` Yes , he 's out , '' said Mary , shortly , and busying herself at last about the candle , without ever asking her visitor to sit down . 
`` So much the better , '' answered Sally , `` for to tell you the truth , Mary , I 've a friend at th ' end of the road , as is anxious to come and see you at home , since you 're grown so particular as not to like to speak to him in the street . 
`` Oh , Sally , do n't let him , '' said Mary , speaking at last heartily ; and running to the door she would have fastened it , but Sally held her hands , laughing meanwhile at her distress . 
`` Oh , let us go , let us go , '' said Mary , feeling that the interview must be , and had better be anywhere than at home , where her father might return at any minute . 
She snatched up her bonnet , and was at the end of the court in an instant ; but then , not knowing whether to turn to the right or to the left , she was obliged to wait for Sally , who came leisurely up , and put her arm through Mary 's with a kind of decided hold , intended to prevent the possibility of her changing her mind , and turning back . 
But this , under the circumstances , was quite different to Mary 's plan . 
She had wondered more than once if she must not have another interview with Mr. Carson ; and had then determined , while she expressed her resolution that it should be the final one , to tell him how sorry she was if she had thoughtlessly given him false hopes . 
For be it remembered , she had the innocence , or the ignorance , to believe his intentions honourable ; and he , feeling that at any price he must have her , only that he would obtain her as cheaply as he could , had never undeceived her ; while Sally Leadbitter laughed in her sleeve at them both , and wondered how it would all end , -- whether Mary would gain her point of marriage , with her sly affectation of believing such to be Mr. Carson 's intention in courting her . 
Not very far from the end of the street , into which the court where Mary lived opened , they met Mr. Carson , his hat a good deal slouched over his face as if afraid of being recognised . 
The length of the walk gave Mary time to recoil from the interview which was to follow ; but even if her own resolve to go through with it had failed , there was the steady grasp of Sally Leadbitter , which she could not evade , without an absolute struggle . 
Inside this fence , a minute afterwards , the girls were standing by him ; Mary now returning Sally 's detaining grasp with interest , for she had determined on the way to make her a witness , willing , or unwilling , to the ensuing conversation . 
But Sally 's curiosity led her to be a very passive prisoner in Mary 's hold . 
With more freedom than he had ever used before , Mr. Carson put his arm firmly round Mary 's waist , in spite of her indignant resistance . 
Mary ceased struggling , but turned so as to be almost opposite to him , while she spoke out calmly , and boldly . 
For an instant he was surprised ; the next , vanity came to his aid , and convinced him that she could only be joking . 
she was only showing a little womanly fondness for coquetting . 
Ha , Mary , I 've caught you , have I ? '' 
as she , puzzled by his perseverance in thinking her joking , hesitated in what from she could now put her meaning . 
`` I mean , sir , '' she said , sharply , `` that I will never speak to you again , at any time , after to-night . '' 
`` And what 's made this change , Mary ? '' 
`` No , sir , '' she answered gently , but yet firmly . 
What have I done , Mary ? 
This naive and candid avowal served her but little . 
What should he do to tempt her ? 
Mary . 
-LRB- Deep sank those words into Mary 's heart . -RRB- 
`` Now , Mary , you see how willing I am to -- to sacrifice a good deal for you ; I even offer you marriage , to satisfy your little ambitious heart ; so , now , wo n't you say , you can love me a little , little bit ? '' 
He pulled her towards him . 
To his surprise , she still resisted . 
though all she had pictured to herself for so many months in being the wife of Mr. Carson , was now within her grasp , she resisted . 
His speech had given her but one feeling , that of exceeding great relief . 
For she had dreaded , now she knew what true love was , to think of the attachment she might have created ; the deep feeling her flirting conduct might have called out . 
She had loaded herself with reproaches for the misery she might have caused . 
It was a relief , to gather that the attachment was of that low , despicable kind , which can plan to seduce the object of its affection ; that the feeling she had caused was shallow enough , for it only pretended to embrace self , at the expense of the misery , the ruin , of one falsely termed beloved . 
She need not be penitent to such a plotter ! 
And with a wrench for which she had reserved all her strength , she flew off like a bolt . 
They heard her flying footsteps echo down the quiet street . 
I humbly beg your pardon , as Mary says , but I ca n't help laughing , to think how she 's outwitted us . '' 
-- but then my father was in much such a station ; at any rate , there was not the disparity there is between Mary and me . '' 
`` Then you mean to give her up , sir . 
She made no bones of saying she gave you up . '' 
`` No , I do not mean to give her up , whatever you and she may please to think . 
I am more in love with her than ever ; even for this charming capricious ebullition of hers . 
She 'll come round , you may depend upon it . 
Mind I do n't say I shall offer her the same terms again . '' 
And now Mary had , as she thought , dismissed both her lovers . 
He who loved her with all his heart and with all his soul , considered his rejection final . 
He had too much respect for his own heartiness of love to believe himself unworthy of Mary ; that mock humble conceit did not enter his head . 
He thought he did `` not hit Mary 's fancy ; '' and though that may sound a trivial every-day expression , yet the reality of it cut him to the heart . 
Mr. Carson , as we have seen , perserved in considering Mary 's rejection of him as merely a `` charming caprice . '' 
If she were at work , Sally Leadbitter was sure to slip a passionately loving note into her hand , and then so skilfully move away from her side , that Mary could not all at once return it , without making some sensation among the work-women . 
She was even forced to take several home with her . 
But after reading one , she determined on her plan . 
She made no great resistance to receiving them from Sally , but kept them unopened , and occasionally returned them in a blank half-sheet of paper . 
For it was a long fast from the one o'clock dinner-hour at Miss Simmonds ' to the close of Mary 's vigil , which was often extended to midnight . 
She was young , and had not yet learned to bear `` clemming . '' 
One evening , as she sang a merry song over her work , stopping occasionally to sigh , the blind Margaret came groping in . 
It had been one of Mary 's additional sorrows that her friend had been absent from home , accompanying the lecturer on music in his round among the manufacturing towns of Yorkshire and Lancashire . 
Her grandfather , too , had seen this a good time for going his expeditions in search of specimens ; so that the house had been shut up for several weeks . 
-- She kissed her over and over again . 
Bolton , and Bury , and Owdham , and Halifax , and -- but Mary , guess who I saw there ? 
Did you know he were in Halifax , Mary ? '' 
`` No ; '' she answered , faintly and sadly ; for Halifax was all the same to her heart as the Antipodes ; equally inaccessible by humble penitent looks and maidenly tokens of love . 
But you 'll ha ' heard all this , Mary . '' 
she had not . 
But what 's up with you Mary ? 
Now Mary cried outright ; she was weak in body , and unhappy in mind , and the time was come when she might have the relief of telling her grief . 
She could not bring herself to confess how much of her sorrow was caused by her having been vain and foolish ; she hoped that need never be known , and she could not bear to think of it . 
And he told me how he loved me , and I thought I did not love him , and I told him I did n't ; and , Margaret , -- he believed me , and went away so sad , and so angry ; and now I 'd do any thing , -- I would indeed , '' her sobs choked the end of her sentence . 
`` Tell me , Margaret , '' said Mary , taking her apron down from her eyes , and looking at Margaret with eager anxiety . 
`` But I did not mean to write him a courting letter , '' said Mary , somewhat indignantly . 
`` But he wo n't try , '' said Mary , sighing . 
And you would not have him if he 's not a will to you , Mary ! 
changing her tone from the somewhat hard way in which sensible people too often speak , to the soft accents of tenderness which come with such peculiar grace from them ; `` you must just wait and be patient . 
`` But it 's so hard to be patient , '' pleaded Mary . 
with me , that I really thought she wish 'd I 'd keep away . '' 
She rose up from her seat , but still delayed going . 
`` Mary ! 
-LRB- The thought of her father , and his ill looks , and his one meal a day , rushed upon Mary . -RRB- 
`` I wish I could sing , '' said Mary , looking at the sovereign . 
Many 's the time when I could see , that I longed for your beauty , Mary ! 
In spite of her blindness she hurried away , anxious to rejoin her grandfather , and desirous also to escape from Mary 's expressions of gratitude . 
Her visit had done Mary good in many ways . 
It had strengthened her patience and her hope . 
It had given her confidence in Margaret 's sympathy ; and last , and really least in comforting power -LRB- of so little value are silver and gold in comparison to love , that gift in every one 's power to bestow -RRB- , came the consciousness of the money-value of the sovereign she held in her hand . 
First of all came the thought of a comfortable supper for her father that very night ; and acting instantly upon the idea , she set off in hopes that all the provision-shops might not yet be closed , although it was so late . 
`` Food gives heart , '' say the Lancashire people ; and the next day Mary made time to go and call on Mrs. Wilson , according to Margaret 's advice . 
She found her quite alone , and more gracious than she had been the last time Mary had visited her . 
`` She would just step up to the post-office , all for no earthly use . 
For it were to ask if they had n't a letter lying there for her from her foster-son Will Wilson , the sailor-lad . '' 
`` What made her think there were a letter ? '' 
asked Mary . 
But you never ask after Jem '' -- anxious to get in a word on the subject nearest her heart . 
`` No , '' replied Mary , blushing scarlet . 
Rather to her disappointment , Mary owned she had heard of the sum his master had paid him for his invention . 
And so , Mary , yo see , we 're two ladies o ' property . 
I wish the twins had lived , bless 'em , '' said she , dropping a few tears . 
Mary 's heart filled with love at this new proof of Jem 's goodness ; but she could not talk about it . 
She took Jane Wilson 's hand and pressed it with affection ; and then turned the subject to Will , her sailor nephew . 
Jane was a little bit sorry , but her prosperity had made her gentler , and she did not resent what she felt as Mary 's indifference to Jem , and his merits . 
`` It 's not every one that can get a hundred or two at a time , '' said Mary . 
That 's Alice 's step , '' said she , hastening to open the door to her sister-in-law . 
Margaret 's words came into Mary 's mind . 
`` It 's hard work to be patient to all of us , '' said Mary ; `` I know I find it so , but I did not know one so good as you did , Alice ; I shall not think so badly of myself for being a bit impatient , now I 've heard you say you find it difficult . '' 
The idea of reproach to Alice was the last in Mary 's mind ; and Alice knew it was . 
I 've put th ' kettle on , and you and Mary shall ha'a dish o ' tea in no time . '' 
So she bustled about , and brought out a comfortable-looking substantial loaf , and set Mary to cut bread and butter , while she rattled out the tea-cups -- always a cheerful sound . 
You may fancy the hospitable , and welcoming commotion that issued ; how Mrs. Wilson laughed , and talked , and cried , altogether , if such a thing can be done ; and how Mary gazed with wondering pleasure at her old playmate ; now , a dashing , bronzed-looking , ringletted sailor , frank , and hearty , and affectionate . 
After tea , Mary , feeling sure there was much to be said on both sides , at which it would be better none should be present , not even an intimate friend like herself , got up to go away . 
This seemed to arouse Alice from her dreamy consciousness of exceeding happiness , and she hastily followed Mary to the door . 
There , standing outside , with the latch in her hand , she took hold of Mary 's arm , and spoke nearly the first words she had uttered since her nephew 's return . 
Mary , do n't let my being an unbelieving Thomas weaken your faith . 
It was perhaps four or five days after the events mentioned in the last chapter , that one evening , as Mary stood lost in reverie at the window , she saw Will Wilson enter the court , and come quickly up to her door . 
She was glad to see him , for he had always been a friend of hers , perhaps too much like her in character ever to become any thing nearer or dearer . 
She opened the door in readiness to receive his frank greeting , which she as frankly returned . 
`` Come Mary ! 
asked Mary , as her heart leaped up at the thought of who might be waiting for her . 
She added , hesitatingly , `` Is any one else at Job 's ? '' 
asked Mary . 
Mary , ar 'n' t you ready ? '' 
She had not been able to gather if she were to see Jem at Job Legh 's ; but when the door was opened , she at once saw and felt he was not there . 
The evening then would be a blank ; at least so she thought for the first five minutes ; but she soon forgot her disappointment in the cheerful meeting of old friends , all , except herself , with some cause for rejoicing at that very time . 
`` Do tell us about it , '' cried Mary . 
asked Mary , breathlessly . 
Jack used to say she was for all the world as beautiful as any of the wax ladies in the barbers ' shops ; only , Mary , there were one little difference : her hair was bright grass green . '' 
`` I should not think that was pretty , '' said Mary , hesitatingly ; as if not liking to doubt the perfection of any thing belonging to such an acknowledged beauty . 
However , she had green hair sure enough ; and were proud enough of it , too ; for she were combing it out full-length when first they saw her . 
They all thought she were a fair prize , and may be as good as a whale in ready money -LRB- they were whale-fishers you know -RRB- . 
`` So , as I were saying , they pulled towards her , thinking to catch her . 
She were all the while combing her beautiful hair , and beckoning to them , while with the other hand she held a looking-glass . '' 
`` How many hands had she ? '' 
Well , Mary , '' turning very decidedly towards her ; `` when she saw them coming near , whether it were she grew frightened at their fowling-pieces , as they had on board for a bit o ' shooting on the island , or whether it were she were just a fickle jade as did not rightly know her own mind -LRB- which seeing one half of her was woman , I think myself was most probable -RRB- , but when they were only about two oars ' length from the rock where she sat , down she plopped into the water , leaving nothing but her hinder end of a fish tale sticking up for a minute , and then that disappeared too . '' 
`` And did they never see her again ? '' 
asked Mary . 
`` Never so plain ; the man who had the second watch one night declared he saw her swimming round the ship , and holding up her glass for him to look in ; and then he saw the little cottage near Aber in Wales -LRB- where his wife lived -RRB- as plain as ever he saw it in life , and his wife standing outside , shading her eyes as if she were looking for him . 
`` I wish they had caught her , '' said Mary , musing . 
asked Margaret , almost anxious her grandfather should be convinced . 
asked Mary , eagerly ; her imagination running on coral combs , studded with pearls . 
Mary , however , was too much interested by the wonders of the deep to perceive the incredulity with which Job Legh received Wilson 's account of the mermaid , and when he left off , half offended , and very much inclined not to open his lips again through the evening , she eagerly said , `` Oh , do tell us something more of what you hear and see on board ship . 
`` What 's the use , Mary , if folk wo n't believe one . 
But I 'll tell you , Mary , '' with an emphasis on you , `` some more of the wonders of the sea , sin ' you 're not too wise to believe me . 
This did stagger Mary . 
She had heard of mermaids as signs of inns and as sea-wonders , but never of flying fish . 
Mary was amused to see how the young sailor sat entranced ; mouth , eyes , all open , in order to catch every breath of sound . 
For the first time the idea crossed Mary 's mind that it was possible the plain little sensible Margaret , so prim and demure , might have power over the heart of the handsome , dashing , spirited Will Wilson . 
asked Mary . 
I may have to hoist the blue Peter any day ; so , make much of me while you have me , Mary . '' 
said Mary . 
Mary did not understand , so she left him , and went to sit by Alice , who could not hear conversation unless expressly addressed to her . 
She had sat patiently silent the greater part of the night , and now greeted Mary with a quiet smile . 
asked she . 
Alice shook her head ; but whether it were that she did not hear , or that she did not quite approve of what she heard , Mary could not make out . 
She sat silently watching Alice , and regretting over her dimmed and veiled eyes , formerly so bright and speaking . 
As if Alice understood by some other sense what was passing in Mary 's mind , she turned suddenly round , and answered Mary 's thought . 
`` Yo 're mourning for me , my dear ; and there 's no need , Mary . 
For when I were a nurse-girl , my missis alway telled me to speak very soft and low , and to darken the room that her little one might go to sleep ; and now all noises are hushed and still to me , and the bonny earth seems dim and dark , and I know it 's my Father lulling me away to my long sleep . 
Mary thought of Alice 's long-cherished , fond wish to revisit the home of her childhood , so often and often deferred , and now probably never to take place . 
There was the humble cheerful meal , and then the bustling merry farewell , and Mary was once more in the quietness and solitude of her own dingy , dreary-looking home ; her father still out , the fire extinguished , and her evening 's task of work lying all undone upon the dresser . 
It had distracted her attention for a few hours from the pressure of many uneasy thoughts , of the dark , heavy , oppressive times , when sorrow and want seemed to surround her on every side ; of her father , his changed and altered looks , telling so plainly of broken health , and an embittered heart ; of the morrow , and the morrow beyond that , to be spent in that close monotonous workroom , with Sally Leadbitter 's odious whispers hissing in her ear ; and of the hunted look , so full of dread , from Miss Simmonds ' door-step up and down the street , lest her persecuting lover should be near : for he lay in wait for her with wonderful perseverance , and of late had made himself almost hateful , by the unmanly force which he had used to detain her to listen to him , and the indifference with which he exposed her to the remarks of the passers-by , any one of whom might circulate reports which it would be terrible for her father to hear -- and worse than death should they reach Jem Wilson . 
Oh , Jem , Jem , why did you not come to receive some of the modest looks and words of love which Mary longed to give you , to try and make up for the hasty rejection which you as hastily took to be final , though both mourned over it with many tears . 
But day after day passed away , and patience seemed of no avail ; and Mary 's cry was ever the old moan of the Moated Grange , `` Why comes he not , '' she said , `` I am aweary , aweary . 
One thought had haunted her both by night and by day , with monomaniacal incessancy ; and that thought was how to save Mary -LRB- her dead sister 's only child , her own little pet in the days of her innocence -RRB- from following in the same downward path to vice . 
To whom could she speak and ask for aid ? 
She shrank from the idea of addressing John Barton again ; her heart sank within her , at the remembrance of his fierce repulsing action , and far fiercer words . 
It seemed worse than death to reveal her condition to Mary , else she sometimes thought that this course would be the most terrible , the most efficient warning . 
She must speak ; to that she was soul-compelled ; but to whom ? 
She dreaded addressing any of her former female acquaintance , even supposing they had sense , or spirit , or interest enough to undertake her mission . 
It now flashed across her mind that to the son , to Mary 's playfellow , her elder brother in the days of childhood , her tale might be told , and listened to with interest , and some mode of action suggested by him by which Mary might be guarded and saved . 
All these thoughts had passed through her mind while yet she was in prison ; so when she was turned out , her purpose was clear , and she did not feel her desolation of freedom as she would otherwise have done . 
That night she stationed herself early near the foundry where she knew Jem worked ; he stayed later than usual , being detained by some arrangements for the morrow . 
She grew tired and impatient ; many workmen had come out of the door in the long , dead , brick wall , and eagerly had she peered into their faces , deaf to all insult or curse . 
He must have gone home early ; one more turn in the street , and she would go . 
During that turn he came out , and in the quiet of that street of workshops and warehouses , she directly heard his steps . 
How her heart failed her for an instant ; but still she was not daunted from her purpose , painful as its fulfilment was sure to be . 
She laid her hand on his arm . 
As she expected , after a momentary glance at the person who thus endeavoured to detain him , he made an effort to shake it off , and pass on . 
But trembling as she was , she had provided against this by a firm and unusual grasp . 
`` You must listen to me , Jem Wilson , '' she said , with almost an accent of command . 
`` You must listen , '' she said again , authoritatively , `` for Mary Barton 's sake . '' 
The spell of her name was as potent as that of the mariner 's glittering eye . 
`` I know you care enough for her to wish to save her from harm . '' 
He interrupted his earnest gaze into her face , with the exclamation -- `` And who can yo be to know Mary Barton , or to know that she 's ought to me ? '' 
the aunt to Mary ? 
`` Yes , I mind her well ! 
You must hear it , and I must tell it ; and then see after Mary , and take care she does not become like me . 
As she is loving now , so did I love once ; one above me far . '' 
`` He was so handsome , so kind ! 
I never thought poor Mary would have taken it so to heart ! 
I always meant to send for her to pay me a visit when I was married ; for , mark you ! 
It would break mother 's heart if she knew what I am now -- it did break Mary 's heart , you see . 
And now I recollect it was about her child I wanted to see you , Jem . 
You know Mary Barton , do n't you ? '' 
`` Well , there 's something to do for her ; I forget what ; wait a minute ! 
She is so like my little girl ; '' said she , raising her eyes , glistening with unshed tears , in search of the sympathy of Jem 's countenance . 
how he longed to recall her mind to the subject of Mary , and the lover above her in rank , and the service to be done for her sake . 
After awhile , she spoke again , and in a calmer voice . 
`` When I came to Manchester -LRB- for I could not stay in Chester after her death -RRB- , I found you all out very soon . 
I suppose I would not think so I used to watch about the court where John lived , for many and many a night , and gather all I could about them from the neighbours ' talk ; for I never asked a question , I put this and that together , and followed one , and listened to another ; many 's the time I 've watched the policeman off his beat , and peeped through the chink of the window-shutter to see the old room , and sometimes Mary or her father sitting up late for some reason or another . 
I found out Mary went to learn dress-making , and I began to be frightened for her ; for it 's a bad life for a girl to be out late at night in the streets , and after many an hour of weary work , they 're ready to follow after any novelty that makes a little change . 
But I made up my mind , that bad as I was , I could watch over Mary , and perhaps keep her from harm . 
So I used to wait for her at nights , and follow her home , often when she little knew any one was near her . 
There was one of her companions I never could abide , and I 'm sure that girl is at the bottom of some mischief . 
By-and-bye , Mary 's walks homewards were not alone . 
She was joined soon after she came out , by a man ; a gentleman . 
I began to fear for her , for I saw she was light-hearted , and pleased with his attentions ; and I thought worse of him for having such long talks with that bold girl I told you of . 
I 'm sure it made me worse , thinking about what might be happening to Mary . 
And when I came out , all was going on as before , only she seemed fonder of him than ever ; and oh Jem ! 
her father wo n't listen to me , and it 's you must save Mary ! 
You 're like a brother to her , and maybe could give her advice and watch over her , and at any rate John will hearken to you ; only he 's so stern and so cruel . '' 
She began to cry a little at the remembrance of his harsh words ; but Jem cut her short by his hoarse , stern inquiry , `` Who is this spark that Mary loves ? 
She broke the silence . 
Jem , I charge you with the care of her ! 
I suppose it would be murder to kill her , but it would be better for her to die than to live to lead such a life as I do . 
This was said as if thinking aloud ; but he immediately changed his tone , and continued , `` Esther , you may trust to my doing all I can for Mary . 
She was silent for a minute , and he hoped he had gained his point . 
Then she said , `` God bless you , Jem , for the words you have just spoken . 
Some years ago you might have saved me , as I hope and trust you will yet save Mary . 
But it is too late now ; -- too late , '' she added , with accents of deep despair . 
If you will know all , '' said she , as he still seemed inclined to urge her , `` I must have drink . 
you do n't know the awful nights I have had in prison for want of it ; '' said she , shuddering , and glaring round with terrified eyes , as if dreading to see some spiritual creature , with dim form , near her . 
My mother , carrying little Annie -LRB- I wonder how they got together -RRB- and Mary -- and all looking at me with their sad , stony eyes ; oh Jem ! 
If I creep under the clothes I still see them ; and what is worse , '' hissing out her words with fright , `` they see me . 
could he , then , do nothing for her ! 
She spoke again , but in a less excited tone , although it was thrillingly earnest . 
You can yet save Mary . 
She is innocent , except for the great error of loving one above her in station . 
you will save her ? '' 
With heart and soul , though in few words , Jem promised that if aught earthly could keep her from falling , he would do it . 
Then she blessed him , and bade him good-night . 
`` Stay a minute , '' said he , as she was on the point of departure . 
She laughed strangely . 
For then , '' she added , with a plaintive fall in her voice , `` it is so cold sleeping in entries , and on door-steps ; and I want a dram more than ever . '' 
Again she rapidly turned off , and Jem also went on his way . 
He had not done enough to save her . 
One more effort , and she might have come . 
Nay , twenty efforts would have been well rewarded by her yielding . 
He turned back , but she was gone . 
Mary loved another ! 
He had thought her rejection of him a hard trial , but that was nothing now . 
He only remembered it , to be thankful that he had not yielded to the temptation of trying his fate again , not in actual words , but in a meeting , where her manner should tell far more than words , that her sweeter smiles , her dainty movements , her pretty household ways , were all to be reserved to gladden another 's eyes and heart . 
That a long life -LRB- and he knew men did live long , even with deep , biting sorrow corroding at their hearts -RRB- must be spent without Mary ; nay , with the consciousness she was another 's ! 
Mary loved another ! 
It was , perhaps , no great wonder that she should prefer one , so much above Jem in the external things of life . 
He would rather Mary were dead , cold in her grave , than that she were another 's . 
A vision of her pale , sweet face , with her bright hair , all bedabbled with gore , seemed to float constantly before his aching eyes . 
What had she done to deserve such cruel treatment from him ? 
She had been wooed by one , whom Jem knew to be handsome , gay , and bright , and she had given him her love . 
stinging agony of all -- how she , in return , had loved him ! 
Then the other nature spoke up , and bade him remember the anguish he should so prepare for Mary ! 
He would glory in her wailing grief ! 
he would take pleasure in her desolation of heart ! 
Had he not promised with such earnest purpose of soul , as makes words more solemn than oaths , to save Mary from becoming such as Esther ? 
Who would then guard Mary , with her love , and her innocence ? 
Would it not be a goodly thing to serve her , although she loved him not ; to be her preserving angel , through the perils of life ; and she , unconscious all the while ? 
Poor Esther 's experience had led her , perhaps , too hastily to the conclusion , that Mr. Carson 's intentions were evil towards Mary ; at least she had given no just ground for the fears she entertained that such was the case . 
It was possible , nay , to Jem 's heart , very probable , that he might only be too happy to marry her . 
She was a lady by right of nature , Jem thought ; in movement , grace , and spirit ; what was birth to a Manchester manufacturer , many of whom glory , and justly too , in being the architects of their own fortunes ? 
Harry Carson 's mother had been a factory girl ; so , after all , what was the great reason for doubting his intentions towards Mary ? 
There might probably be some little awkwardness about the affair at first : Mary 's father having such strong prejudices on the one hand ; and something of the same kind being likely to exist on the part of Mr. Carson 's family . 
But Jem knew he had power over John Barton 's mind ; and it would be something to exert that power in promoting Mary 's happiness , and to relinquish all thought of self in so doing . 
Because Mary had no other friend capable of the duty required of him ; the duty of a brother , as Esther imagined him to be in feeling , from his long friendship . 
He would ask him , straightforwardly , as became man speaking to man , not concealing , if need were , the interest he felt in Mary . 
was going on , he beset Mary more than ever . 
She was weary of her life for him . 
From blandishments he had even gone to threats -- threats that whether she would or not she should be his ; he showed an indifference that was almost insulting to every thing which might attract attention and injure her character . 
And still she never saw Jem . 
She knew he had returned home . 
She heard of him occasionally through his cousin , who roved gaily from house to house , finding and making friends everywhere . 
But she never saw him . 
What was she to think ? 
Had he given her up ? 
Were a few hasty words , spoken in a moment of irritation , to stamp her lot through life ? 
At times she thought that she could bear this meekly , happy in her own constant power of loving . 
For of change or of forgetfulness she did not dream . 
Then at other times her state of impatience was such , that it required all her self-restraint to prevent her from going and seeking him out , and -LRB- as man would do to man , or woman to woman -RRB- begging him to forgive her hasty words , and allow her to retract them , and bidding him accept of the love that was filling her whole heart . 
All this time , this ten days or so , of Will 's visit to Manchester , there was something going on which interested Mary even now , and which , in former times , would have exceedingly amused and excited her . 
She saw as clearly as if told in words , that the merry , random , boisterous sailor had fallen deeply in love with the quiet , prim , somewhat plain Margaret : she doubted if Margaret was aware of it , and yet , as she watched more closely , she began to think some instinct made the blind girl feel whose eyes were so often fixed upon her pale face ; that some inner feeling made the delicate and becoming rose-flush steal over her countenance . 
She must be conscious , thought Mary , -- heart answering to heart . 
This then , was he whom Mary loved . 
With a husky voice that trembled as he spoke , he said , `` I think , sir , yo 're keeping company wi ' a young woman called Mary Barton ? '' 
Could this man be a lover of Mary 's ? 
And -LRB- strange stinging thought -RRB- could he be beloved by her , and so have caused her obstinate rejection of himself ? 
`` Mary Barton ! 
Ay , Mary Barton is her name . '' 
Was it then so ; that Mary was a flirt ; the giddy creature of whom he spoke ? 
Even if she were , the more reason for there being some one to protect her ; poor faulty darling . 
`` She 's a good girl , sir , though may be a bit set up with her beauty ; but she 's her father 's only child , sir , and -- '' he stopped ; he did not like to express suspicion , and yet he was determined he would be certain there was ground for none . 
It 's but loss of my time , and yours , too , if you 've only stopped me to tell me Mary Barton is very pretty ; I know that well enough . '' 
It 's been telled me by one as knows , and has seen , that you walk with this same Mary Barton , and are known to be courting her ; and her as spoke to me about it , thinks as how Mary loves you . 
But I 'm an old friend of hers , and her father 's ; and I just wished to know if you mean to marry the girl . 
He succeeded so far as to comprehend that Jem inclined to believe that Mary loved his rival ; and consequently , that if the speaker were attached to her himself , he was not a favoured admirer . 
The idea came into Mr. Carson 's mind , that perhaps after all , Mary loved him in spite of her frequent and obstinate rejections ; and that she had employed this person -LRB- whoever he was -RRB- to bully him into marrying her . 
He resolved to try and ascertain more correctly the man 's relation to her . 
Either he was a lover , and if so , not a favoured one -LRB- in which case Mr. Carson could not at all understand the man 's motives for interesting himself in securing her marriage -RRB- ; or he was a friend , an accomplice , whom she had employed to bully him . 
Neither Mary nor I , as I conceive , called you in as a mediator . '' 
Again he would have passed on , but Jem stood in a determined way before him , saying , `` You say if I had been her brother , or her father , you 'd have answered me what I ask . 
Now , neither father nor brother could love her as I have loved her , ay , and as I love her still ; if love gives a right to satisfaction , it 's next to impossible any one breathing can come up to my right . 
do you mean fair by Mary or not ? 
`` Come , come , no impudence , '' replied Mr. Carson , who having discovered what he wanted to know -LRB- namely , that Jem was a lover of Mary 's , and that she was not encouraging his suit -RRB- , wished to pass on . 
`` I wo n't , then , till you 've given me your word about Mary , '' replied the mechanic , grinding his words out between his teeth , and the livid paleness of the anger he could no longer keep down covering his fact till he looked ghastly . 
Trust me , '' he gasped the words in excess of passion , `` Mary shall fare no better for your insolent interference . '' 
Jem replied with equal excitement -- `` And if you dare to injure her in the least , I will await you where no policeman can step in between . 
He could scarce mind me when I telled him about Jonas ; he did squeeze my hand when I jingled the money , but when I axed his wife 's name he shrieked out , ` Mary , Mary , shall I never see you again . 
Mary , my darling , they 've made me blind because I wanted to work for you and our own baby ; oh , Mary , Mary ! ' 
On Thursday afternoon Mary was surprised , in the midst of some little bustle in which she was engaged , by the entrance of Will Wilson . 
`` And I am , Mary ! 
Mary left off ironing , and came and stood near the fire-place . 
She had always liked Will ; but now it seemed as if a sudden spring of sisterly love had gushed up in her heart , so sorry did she feel to hear of his approaching departure . 
said she , repeating the question . 
Mary understood the particular fondness that was thus generalised . 
She spoke again . 
`` Ay , but Mary ! 
`` Nay , never fret over my walking a matter of thirty mile , '' added he , as he saw she looked grave and sorry . 
`` No ; he knows that , '' answered Mary sadly . 
Mary sighed , for the feeling again came over her that it was very flat to be left alone . 
replied Mary , smiling a little , she 's the only one I know , I believe , who seems free from care . 
Her blindness almost appears a blessing sometimes ; she was so downhearted when she dreaded it , and now she seems so calm and happy when it 's downright come . 
asked Mary . 
Mary could not help laughing outright , in spite of her depression , at the idea of Margaret as an angel ; it was so difficult -LRB- even to her dress-making imagination -RRB- , to fancy where , and how , the wings would be fastened to the brown stuff gown , or the blue and yellow print . 
Will laughed , too , a little , out of sympathy with Mary 's pretty merry laugh . 
Then he said -- `` Ay , you may laugh , Mary ; it only shows you 've never been in love . '' 
In an instant Mary was carnation colour , and the tears sprang to her soft gray eyes . 
She that was suffering so much from the doubts arising from love ! 
He did not notice her change of look and of complexion . 
He only noticed that she was silent , so he continued : `` I thought -- I think , that when I come back from this voyage , I will speak . 
I 'm speaking as if she cared for me , and would marry me ; d'ye think she does care at all for me , Mary ? '' 
Mary had a very decided opinion of her own on the subject , but she did not feel as if she had any right to give it . 
So she said -- `` You must ask Margaret , not me , Will ; she 's never named your name to me . '' 
So , will you give it to her , Mary , when I 'm gone ? 
and , if you can slip in something tender , -- something , you know , of what I feel , -- may be she would listen to you , Mary . '' 
Mary promised that she would do all that he asked . 
`` I shall be thinking on her many and many a night , when I 'm keeping my watch in mid-sea ; I wonder if she will ever think on me , when the wind is whistling , and the gale rising . 
You 'll often speak of me to her , Mary ? 
And if I should meet with any mischance , tell her how dear , how very dear , she was to me , and bid her , for the sake of one who loved her well , try and comfort my poor aunt Alice . 
`` She would maybe have found all sadly changed , '' said Mary , though her heart echoed Will 's feeling . 
Oh Mary ! 
Suddenly Mary started . 
She hurried to her irons , and tried to make up for lost time . 
There was that in his manner which left no doubt of his desire to get rid of the visitor , and Will accordingly shook hands with Mary , and looked at John , as if doubting how far to offer to shake hands with him . 
But he met with no answering glance or gesture , so he went his way , stopping for an instant at the door to say , `` You 'll think on me on Tuesday , Mary . 
Mary was heartily sorry when the door closed ; it seemed like shutting out a friendly sunbeam . 
And her father ! 
He was so restless ; not speaking -LRB- she wished he would -RRB- , but starting up and then sitting down , and meddling with her irons ; he seemed so fierce , too , to judge from his face . 
She wondered if he disliked Will being there ; or if he were vexed to find that she had not got further on with her work . 
At last she could bear his nervous way no longer , it made her equally nervous and fidgety . 
She would speak . 
`` I wanted to get you something to eat first , '' answered she , gently . 
Mary looked at him to see if he spoke jestingly . 
She finished her bit of ironing , and began preparing the food she was sure her father needed ; for by this time her experience in the degrees of hunger had taught her that his present irritability was increased , if not caused , by want of food . 
He had had a sovereign given him to pay his expenses as delegate to Glasgow , and out of this he had given Mary a few shillings in the morning ; so she had been able to buy a sufficient meal , and now her care was to cook it so as to tempt him . 
`` If thou ` rt doing that for me , Mary , thou may ` st spare thy labour . 
`` Just a little bit , father , before starting , '' coaxed Mary , perseveringly . 
It was not often he came , but when he did pay visits , Mary knew from past experience they were any thing but short . 
Her father 's countenance fell back into the deep gloom from which it was but just emerging at the sound of Mary 's sweet voice , and pretty pleading . 
He was interested in John Barton 's mission to Glasgow , and wanted to hear all about it ; so he sat down , and made himself comfortable , in a manner that Mary saw was meant to be stationary . 
That was just what Mary wanted to know ; but what apparently her father was in no mood to tell . 
Mary knew from his step , and his way , how much he was put out , and feared Job would see it too . 
So much the better , and perhaps she could cover her father 's rudeness by her own civility to so kind a friend . 
So half listening to her father 's movements up-stairs -LRB- passionate , violent , restless motions they were -RRB- , and half attending to Job Legh , she tried to pay him all due regard . 
`` When does your father start , Mary ? '' 
What could her father be doing up-stairs ? 
`` You see my folly is this , Mary . 
Her father was coming down at last . 
He went up to Job , and , more civilly than Mary expected , wished him good-bye . 
He then turned to her , and in a short cold manner , bade her farewell . 
But he pushed her away , and was gone . 
She followed him to the door , her eyes blinded by sudden tears ; she stood there looking after him . 
Suddenly , at the end of the court , he turned , and saw her standing there ; he came back quickly , and took her in his arms . 
`` God bless thee , Mary ! 
She threw her arms round his neck . 
So saying , he unlaced her soft twining arms , and kissing her once more , set off on his fierce errand . 
She did not know why , but she had never before felt so depressed , so desolate . 
She turned in to Job , who sat there still . 
Her father , as soon as he was out of sight , slackened his pace , and fell into that heavy listless step , which told as well as words could do , of hopelessness and weakness . 
Mary took her sewing after he had gone , and sat on , and sat on , trying to listen to Job , who was more inclined to talk than usual . 
She had conquered her feeling of impatience towards him so far as to be able to offer him her father 's rejected supper ; and she even tried to eat herself . 
But her heart failed her . 
A leaden weight seemed to hang over her ; a sort of presentiment of evil , or perhaps only an excess of low-spirited feeling in consequence of the two departures which had taken place that afternoon . 
She wondered how long Job Legh would sit . 
She did not like putting down her work , and crying before him , and yet she had never in her life longed so much to be alone in order to indulge a good hearty burst of tears . 
`` Well , Mary , '' she suddenly caught him saying , `` I thought you 'd be a bit lonely to-night ; and as Margaret were going to cheer th ' old woman , I said I 'd go and keep th ' young un ' company ; and a very pleasant , chatty evening we 've had ; very . 
`` But perhaps she is , '' suggested Mary . 
asked Mary . 
Yes ; in she came with her usually calm face , all tearstained and sorrow-marked . 
She could say no more , for her breathless agitation . 
The afternoon , and the parting with Will , had weakened her nerves for any after-shock . 
said Mary , placing her in a chair , and loosening her bonnet-strings . 
asked Mary . 
asked Mary . 
One moment he does not think there 's much hope -- but while there is life there is hope ; th ' next he says he should think she might recover partial , but her age is again her . 
He 's ordered her leeches to her head . '' 
Mary hastened to make her a cup of tea ; while Job , lately so talkative , sat quiet and mournfully silent . 
`` I 'll go first thing to-morrow morning , and learn how she is ; and I 'll bring word back before I go to work , '' said Mary . 
With a few more sorrowful remarks they separated for the night , and Mary was left alone in her house , to meditate on the heavy day that had passed over her head . 
Will gone ; her father gone -- and so strangely too ! 
And to a place so mysteriously distant as Glasgow seemed to be to her ! 
She had felt his presence as a protection against Harry Carson and his threats ; and now she dreaded lest he should learn she was alone . 
Her heart began to despair , too , about Jem . 
She feared he had ceased to love her ; and she -- she only loved him more and more for his seeming neglect . 
I must now go back to an hour or two before Mary and her friends parted for the night . 
I left Mary , on that same Thursday night which left its burden of woe at Mr. Carson 's threshold , haunted with depressing thoughts . 
All through the night she tossed restlessly about ; trying to get quit of the ideas that harrassed her , and longing for the light when she could rise , and find some employment . 
But just as dawn began to appear , she became more quiet , and fell into a sound heavy sleep , which lasted till she was sure it was late in the morning by the full light that shone in . 
She dressed hastily , and heard the neighbouring church clock strike eight . 
It was far too late to do as she had planned -LRB- after inquiring how Alice was , to return and tell Margaret -RRB- , and she accordingly went in to inform the latter of her change of purpose , and the cause of it ; but on entering the house she found Job sitting alone , looking sad enough . 
Mary could do nothing but feel guilty of her long morning map , and hasten to follow Margaret 's steps ; for late as it was , she felt she could not settle well to her work , unless she learnt how kind good Alice Wilson was going on . 
And there was Mrs. Davenport washing away at a night-cap or so , which , by their simple , old-world make , Mary knew at a glance were Alice 's . 
Would Mary like to see her ? 
Of course she would . 
So Mary went up-stairs , accompanied by Mrs. Davenport , wringing the suds off her hands , and speaking in a loud whisper far more audible than her usual voice . 
She 'll not know you , Mary , she knows none of us . '' 
Margaret touched Mary 's hand , and the pressure in return told her that they understood each other ; that they knew how in this illness to the old , world-weary woman , God had sent her a veiled blessing : she was once more in the scenes of her childhood , unchanged and bright as in those long departed days ; once more with the sister of her youth , the playmate of fifty years ago , who had for nearly as many years slept in a grassy grave in the little church-yard beyond Burton . 
Mary found a red-spotted pocket-handkerchief , and put it into the hand , which sought about for something to wipe away the trickling tears . 
She took it , with a gentle murmur . 
Mary pulled Margaret away from the bed . 
that I could see , Mary ! 
I try and be patient with her afore me , but I 'd give aught I have to see her , and see what she wants . 
I mean to stay here as long as Jane Wilson is alone ; and I would fain be here all to-night , but -- '' `` I 'll come , '' said Mary , decidedly . 
`` Mrs. Davenport said she 'd come again , but she 's hard-worked all day -- '' `` I 'll come , '' repeated Mary . 
asked Mary . 
But you 'll , may be , manage to comfort him to-night , Mary , '' said Margaret , smiling , while a ray of hope glimmered in Mary 's heart , and she almost felt glad , for an instant , of the occasion which would at last bring them together . 
Then she saw Alice , and repented , with a bitter self-reproach . 
But she could not help having gladness in the depths of her heart , blame herself as she would . 
So she tried not to think , as she hurried along to Miss Simmonds ' , with a dancing step of lightness . 
She was late -- that she knew she should be . 
At first they eyed Mary , as if she had acquired some new interest to them , since the day before . 
Then they began to whisper ; and , absorbed as Mary had been in her own thoughts , she could not help becoming aware that it was of her they spoke . 
At last Sally Leadbitter asked Mary if she had heard the news ? 
answered she . 
Mary 's lips could not utter a negative , but no one who looked at her pale and terror-stricken face could have doubted that she had not heard before of the fearful occurrence . 
Much as Mary had learned to dread him lately , now he was dead -LRB- and dead in such a manner -RRB- her feeling was that of oppressive sorrow for him . 
The room went round and round , and she felt as though she should faint ; but Miss Simmonds came in , bringing a waft of fresher air as she opened the door , to refresh the body , and the certainty of a scolding for inattention to brace the sinking mind . 
Mary tried to speak ; at first she could not , and when she succeeded in uttering a sentence , it seemed as though it were not her own voice that spoke . 
Or , if you must cry '' -LRB- seeing her scolding rather increased the flow of Mary 's tears , than otherwise -RRB- , `` take this print to cry over . 
That wo n't be marked like this beautiful silk , '' rubbing it , as if she loved it , with a clean pocket-handkerchief , in order to soften the edges of the hard round drops . 
Mary took the print , and naturally enough , having had leave given her to cry over it , rather checked the inclination to weep . 
Mary felt as though the haunting horror were a nightmare , a fearful dream , from which awakening would relieve her . 
The picture of the murdered body , far more ghastly than the reality , seemed to swim in the air before her eyes . 
Sally Leadbitter looked and spoke of her , almost accusingly , and made no secret now of Mary 's conduct , more blameable to her fellow work women for its latter changeableness , than for its former giddy flirting . 
`` Poor young gentleman , '' said one , as Sally recounted Mary 's last interview with Mr. Carson . 
exclaimed another , looking indignantly at Mary . 
Mary was more thankful than she could express , when Miss Simmonds returned , to put a stop to Sally 's communications , and to check the remarks of the girls . 
I must return to the Wilsons ' house , which was far from being the abode of peace that Mary was picturing it to herself . 
Mary Barton was her name , whoever she may be . '' 
`` Mary Barton ! 
I 'll give it her well when I see her : that I will . 
But Mary knew nothing of the afternoon 's occurrences ; and gladly did she breathe in the fresh air , as she left Miss Simmonds ' house , to hasten to the Wilsons ' The very change , from the in-door to the outdoor atmosphere , seemed to alter the current of her thoughts . 
She thought less of the dreadful subject which had so haunted her all day ; she cared less for the upbraiding speeches of her fellow-workwomen ; the old association of comfort and sympathy received from Alice gave her the idea that , even now , her bodily presence would soothe and compose those who were in trouble , changed , unconscious , and absent though her spirit might be . 
Mary took off bonnet and shawl with speed , and advancing , made Mrs. Wilson conscious of her presence , by saying , `` Let me do that for you . 
quivered out poor Mary , scarcely conscious that she spoke , so daunted , so terrified was she by the indignant mother 's greeting . 
Mary spoke , but in so changed and choked a voice that the old woman almost started . 
said Mary , as if appealing to the merciful dead . 
I know I was not , '' added she , in a voice of touching humility . 
For through her heart went tolling the ominous , prophetic words he had used when he had last spoken to her . 
`` Mary ! 
And she did not blame him , though she doubted not his guilt ; she felt how madly she might act if once jealous of him , and how much cause had she not given him for jealousy , miserable guilty wretch that she was ! 
`` Thou seest what comes of light conduct , Mary ! 
But the idea of Jem on the gallows , Jem dead , took possession of Mary , and she covered her eyes with her wan hands , as if indeed to shut out the fearful sight . 
She murmured some words , which though spoken low , as if choked up from the depths of agony , Jane Wilson caught . 
Mary roused herself up . 
The more obstinately and upbraidingly Mrs. Wilson refused , the more Mary pleaded , with ever the same soft , entreating cry , `` Let me stay with you . '' 
Her stunned soul seemed to bound its wishes , for the hour at least , to remaining with one who loved and sorrowed for the same human being that she did . 
`` I 've may be been a bit hard on you , Mary , I 'll own that . 
And Mary turned out of the house , which had been his home , where he was loved , and mourned for , into the busy , desolate , crowded street , where they were crying half-penny broadsides , giving an account of the bloody murder , the coroner 's inquest , and a raw-head-and-bloody-bones picture of the suspected murderer , James Wilson . 
But Mary heard not , she heeded not . 
She staggered on like one in a dream . 
With hung head and tottering steps , she instinctively chose the shortest cut to that home which was to her , in her present state of mind , only the hiding place of four walls , where she might vent her agony , unseen and unnoticed by the keen , unkind world without , but where no welcome , no love , no sympathising tears awaited her . 
As she neared that home , within two minutes ' walk of it , her impetuous course was arrested by a light touch on her arm , and turning hastily , she saw a little Italian boy , with his humble show-box , -- a white mouse , or some such thing . 
Mary answered him impatiently , `` Oh , lad , hunger is nothing -- nothing ! '' 
And she rapidly passed on . 
But her heart upbraided her the next minute with her unrelenting speech , and she hastily entered her door and seized the scanty remnant of food which the cupboard contained , and she retraced her steps to the place where the little hopeless stranger had sunk down by his mute companion in loneliness and starvation , and was raining down tears as he spoke in some foreign tongue , with low cries for the far distant `` Mamma mia ! '' 
A strange feeling crept over Mary 's heart , as if something spiritual were near ; as if the dead so lately present in her dreams , were yet gliding and hovering round her , with their dim , dread forms . 
Had they not loved her ? 
-- and who loved her now ? 
Was she not lonely enough to welcome the spirits of the dead , who had loved her while here ? 
If her mother had conscious being , her love for her child endured . 
So she quietened her fears , and listened -- listened still . 
`` Mary ! 
Mary ! 
as a little movement on her part seemed to tell the being outside of her wakeful , watchful state . 
They were the accents of her mother 's voice ; the very south-country pronunciation , that Mary so well remembered ; and which she had sometimes tried to imitate when alone , with the fond mimicry of affection . 
So , without fear , without hesitation , she rose and unbarred the door . 
There , against the moonlight , stood a form , so closely resembling her dead mother , that Mary never doubted the identity , but exclaiming -LRB- as if she were a terrified child , secure of safety when near the protecting care of its parent -RRB- -- `` Oh ! 
she threw herself , or rather fell , into the trembling arms , of her long-lost , unrecognised Aunt Esther . 
Her sympathy was all with them , for she had known what they suffered ; and besides this there was her own individual dislike of Mr. Carson , and dread of him for Mary 's sake . 
Yet , poor Mary ! 
Poor Mary ! 
who would comfort her ? 
She passed on a few steps , her thoughts still of Mary , till the idea crossed her mind , could it -LRB- blank as it appeared to be -RRB- give any clue to the murderer ? 
As I said before , her sympathies were all on that side , so she turned back and picked it up ; and then feeling as if in some measure an accessory , she hid it unexamined in her hand , and hastily passed out of the street at the opposite end to that by which she had entered it . 
And what do you think she felt , when , having walked some distance from the spot , she dared to open the crushed paper , and saw written on it Mary Barton 's name , and not only that , but the street in which she lived ! 
what terrible thought flashed into her mind ; or was it only fancy ? 
But it looked very like the writing which she had once known well -- the writing of Jem Wilson , who , when she lived at her brother-in-law 's , and he was a near neighbour , had often been employed by her to write her letters to people , to whom she was ashamed of sending her own misspelt scrawl . 
She remembered the wonderful flourishes she had so much admired in those days , while she sat by dictating , and Jem , in all the pride of newly-acquired penmanship , used to dazzle her eyes by extraordinary graces and twirls . 
perhaps it was merely that her head was running so on Mary , that she was associating every trifle with her . 
It was enough to fill her mind to think from what she might have saved Mary by securing the paper . 
She would look at it just once more , and see if some very dense and stupid policeman could have mistaken the name , or if Mary would certainly have been dragged into notice in the affair . 
if it was so , she understood it all , and she had been the cause ! 
With her violent and unregulated nature , rendered morbid by the course of life she led , and her consciousness of her degradation , she cursed herself for the interference which she believed had led to this ; for the information and the warning she had given to Jem , which had roused him to this murderous action . 
How could she , the abandoned and polluted outcast , ever have dared to hope for a blessing , even on her efforts to do good ? 
The black curse of Heaven rested on all her doings , were they for good or for evil . 
So she wandered about , too restless to take her usual heavy morning 's sleep ; up and down the streets , greedily listening to every word of the passers by , and loitering near each group of talkers , anxious to scrape together every morsel of information , or conjecture , or suspicion , though without possessing any definite purpose in all this . 
And ever and always she clenched the scrap of paper which might betray so much , until her nails had deeply indented the palm of her hand ; so fearful was she in her nervous dread , lest unawares she should let it drop . 
Towards the middle of the day she could no longer evade the body 's craving want of rest and refreshment ; but the rest was taken in a spirit vault , and the refreshment was a glass of gin . 
Then she started up from the stupor she had taken for repose ; and suddenly driven before the gusty impulses of her mind , she pushed her way to the place where at that very time the police were bringing the information they had gathered with regard to the allengrossing murder . 
She listened with painful acuteness of comprehension to dropped words and unconnected sentences , the meaning of which became clearer , and yet more clear to her . 
She saw him -LRB- although he , absorbed in deep sad thought , saw her not -RRB- , she saw him brought handcuffed , and guarded out of the coach . 
She saw him enter the station , -- she gasped for breath till he came out , still hand-cuffed , and still guarded , to be conveyed to the New Bailey . 
He was the only one who had spoken to her with hope that she might win her way back to virtue . 
His words had lingered in her heart with a sort of call to Heaven , like distant Sabbath bells , although in her despair she had turned away from his voice . 
He was the only one who had spoken to her kindly . 
The murder , shocking though it was , was an absent , abstract thing , on which her thoughts could not , and would not dwell : all that was present in her mind was Jem 's danger , and his kindness . 
Then Mary came to remembrance . 
She set off towards the court where Mary lived , to pick up what she could there of information . 
But she was ashamed to enter in where once she had been innocent , and hung about the neighbouring streets , not daring to question , so she learnt but little ; nothing in fact but the knowledge of John Barton 's absence from home . 
She went up a dark entry to rest her weary limbs on a door-step and think . 
Her elbows on her knees , her face hidden in her hands , she tried to gather together and arrange her thoughts . 
But still every now and then she opened her hand to see if the paper were yet there . 
She got up at last . 
She had formed a plan , and had a course of action to look forward to that would satisfy one craving desire at least . 
The time was long gone by when there was much wisdom or consistency in her projects . 
She went to a pawnshop , and took off her finery in a back room . 
She was known by the people and had a character for honesty , so she had no very great difficulty in inducing them to let her have a suit of outer clothes , befitting the wife of a working-man , a black silk bonnet , a printed gown , a plaid shawl , dirty and rather worn to be sure , but which had a sort of sanctity to the eyes of the street-walker , as being the appropriate garb of that happy class to which she could never , never more belong . 
She looked at herself in the little glass which hung against the wall , and sadly shaking her head , thought how easy were the duties of that Eden of innocence from which she was shut out ; how she would work , and toil , and starve , and die , if necessary , for a husband , a home , -- for children , -- but that thought she could not bear ; a little form rose up , stern in its innocence , from the witches ' cauldron of her imagination , and she rushed into action again . 
You know now how she came to stand by the threshold of Mary 's door , waiting , trembling , until the latch was lifted , and her niece , with words that spoke of such desolation among the living , fell into her arms . 
She had felt as if some holy spell would prevent her -LRB- even as the unholy Lady Geraldine was prevented , in the abode of Christabel -RRB- from crossing the threshold of that home of her early innocence ; and she had meant to wait for an invitation . 
But Mary 's helpless action did away with all reluctant feeling , and she bore or dragged her to her seat , and looked on her bewildered eyes , as , puzzled with the likeness , which was not identity , she gazed on her aunt 's features . 
In pursuance of her plan , Esther meant to assume the manners and character , as she had done the dress , of a mechanic 's wife ; but then , to account for her long absence , and her long silence towards all that ought to have been dear to her , it was necessary that she should put on an indifference far distant from her heart , which was loving and yearning , in spite of all its faults . 
And , perhaps , she overacted her part , for certainly Mary felt a kind of repugnance to the changed and altered aunt , who so suddenly re-appeared on the scene ; and it would have cut Esther to the very core , could she have known how her little darling of former days was feeling towards her . 
`` You do n't remember me I see , Mary ! '' 
You recollect aunt Esther , do n't you , Mary ? '' 
asked Mary , faintly , still looking at the face which was so different from the old recollections of her aunt 's fresh dazzling beauty . 
its so long since I heard that name , '' sighing forth the thoughts it suggested ; then recovering herself , and striving after the hard character she wished to assume , she continued : `` and to-day I heard a friend of yours , and of mine too , long ago , was in trouble , and I guessed you would be in sorrow , so I thought I would just step this far and see you . '' 
Mary 's tears flowed afresh , but she had no desire to open her heart to her strangely-found aunt , who had , by her own confession , kept aloof from and neglected them for so many years . 
Yet she tried to feel grateful for kindness -LRB- however late -RRB- from any one , and wished to be civil . 
Moreover , she had a strong disinclination to speak on the terrible subject , uppermost in her mind . 
So , after a pause , she said , `` Thank you . 
I 'm so sorry , '' said she , rising with a sudden thought , which was as suddenly checked by recollection , `` but I 've nothing to eat in the house , and I 'm sure you must be hungry , after your walk . '' 
For Mary concluded that certainly her aunt 's residence must be far away on the other side of the town , out of sight or hearing . 
But after all , she did not think much about her ; her heart was so aching-full of other things , that all besides seemed like a dream . 
She received feelings and impressions from her conversation with her aunt , but did not , could not put them together , or think , or argue about them . 
Mary , my dear ! 
Her words shot a strange pang through Mary 's heart . 
She had always remembered her aunt 's loving and unselfish disposition ; how was it changed , if , living in plenty , she had never thought it worth while to ask after relations who were all but starving ! 
She shut up her heart instinctively against her aunt . 
The candle was placed right between them , and Esther moved it in order to have a clearer view of Mary 's face , so that she might read her emotions , and ascertain her interests . 
Then she began : `` It 's a bad business , I 'm afraid , this of Mr. Carson 's murder . '' 
Mary winced a little . 
Mary covered her eyes with her hands , as if to shade them from the light , and Esther herself , less accustomed to self-command , was getting too much agitated for calm observation of another . 
So I carried it a little way , and then I opened it , and saw your name , Mary . '' 
Mary took her hands away from her eyes , and looked with surprise at her aunt 's face , as she uttered these words . 
She was kind after all , for was she not saving her from being summoned , and from being questioned , and examined ; a thing to be dreaded above all others : as she felt sure that her unwilling answers , frame them how she might , would add to the suspicions against Jem ; her aunt was indeed kind , to think of what would spare her this . 
Esther went on , without noticing Mary 's look . 
The very action of speaking was so painful to her , and so much interrupted by the hard , raking little cough , which had been her constant annoyance for months , that she was too much engrossed by the physical difficulty of utterance , to be a very close observer . 
Look Mary ! '' 
And now she did watch her . 
Mary took the paper and flattened it ; then suddenly stood stiff up , with irrepressible movement , as if petrified by some horror abruptly disclosed ; her face , strung and rigid ; her lips compressed tight , to keep down some rising exclamation . 
She dropped on her seat , as suddenly as if the braced muscles had in an instant given way . 
But she spoke no word . 
asked Esther , though Mary 's manner was almost confirmation enough . 
You never will tell , '' demanded Mary , in a tone so sternly earnest , as almost to be threatening . 
`` Nay , Mary , '' said Esther , rather reproachfully , `` I am not so bad as that . 
Mary , you can not think I would do that , whatever I may be . '' 
Mary caught her sad and upbraiding look . 
Mary sat still looking at the writing , and turning the paper round with careful examination , trying to hope , but her very fears belying her hopes . 
`` I thought you cared for the young man that 's murdered , '' observed Esther , half-aloud ; but feeling that she could not mistake this strange interest in the suspected murderer , implied by Mary 's eagerness to screen him from anything which might strengthen suspicion against him . 
She had come , desirous to know the extent of Mary 's grief for Mr. Carson , and glad of the excuse afforded her by the important scrap of paper . 
Her remark about its being Jem 's hand-writing , she had , with this view of ascertaining Mary 's state of feeling , felt to be most imprudent the instant after she had uttered it ; but Mary 's anxiety that she should not tell , was too great , and too decided , to leave a doubt as to her interest for Jem . 
She grew more and more bewildered , and her dizzy head refused to reason . 
Mary never spoke . 
She held the bit of paper firmly , determined to retain possession of it , come what might ; and anxious , and impatient , for her aunt to go . 
As she sat , her face bore a likeness to Esther 's dead child . 
`` You are so like my little girl , Mary ! '' 
Mary looked up . 
Her aunt had children , then . 
That was all the idea she received . 
No faint imagination of the love and the woe of that poor creature crossed her mind , or she would have taken her , all guilty and erring , to her bosom , and tried to bind up the broken heart . 
Her aunt had children , then ; and she was on the point of putting some question about them , but before it could be spoken another thought turned it aside , and she went back to her task of unravelling the mystery of the paper , and the handwriting . 
how she wished her aunt would go . 
As if , according to the believers in mesmerism , the intenseness of her wish gave her power over another , although the wish was unexpressed , Esther felt herself unwelcome , and that her absence was desired . 
She was so much disappointed in this longed-for , dreaded interview with Mary ; she had wished to impose upon her with her tale of married respectability , and yet she had yearned and craved for sympathy in her real lot . 
And she had imposed upon her well . 
She should perhaps be glad of it afterwards ; but her desolation of hope seemed for the time redoubled . 
And she must leave the old dwelling-place , whose very walls , and flags , dingy and sordid as they were , had a charm for her . 
She must -- she would go . 
`` Well , good-night , Mary . 
`` I promise , '' said Mary , hoarsely , but firmly . 
Not if I could be of any comfort to you , Mary ; '' catching at some glimmering hope . 
`` Oh , no , '' said Mary , anxious to be alone . 
`` Mrs. Fergusson , '' repeated Mary , half unconsciously . 
As Esther drew her shawl around her , and prepared to depart , a thought crossed Mary 's mind that she had been cold and hard in her manner towards one , who had certainly meant to act kindly in bringing her the paper -LRB- that dread , terrible piece of paper -RRB- , and thus saving her from -- she could not rightly think how much , or how little she was spared . 
So , desirous of making up for her previous indifferent manner , she advanced to kiss her aunt before her departure . 
But , to her surprise , her aunt pushed her off with a frantic kind of gesture , and saying the words , `` Not me . 
She rushed into the outer darkness of the street ; and there wept long and bitterly . 
No sooner was Mary alone than she fastened the door , and put the shutters up against the window , which had all this time remained shaded only by the curtains hastily drawn together on Esther 's entrance , and the lighting of the candle . 
But some remedy to Mary 's sorrow came with thinking . 
If her father was guilty , Jem was innocent . 
And she must do it ; for , was not she the sole depository of the terrible secret ? 
Her father was not suspected ; and never should be , if by any foresight or any exertions of her own she could prevent it . 
She did not yet know how Jem was to be saved , while her father was also to be considered innocent . 
But with the call upon her exertions , and her various qualities of judgment and discretion , came the answering consciousness of innate power to meet the emergency . 
Every step now , nay , the employment of every minute , was of consequence ; for you must remember she had learnt at Miss Simmonds ' the probability that the murderer would be brought to trial the next week . 
And you must remember , too , that never was so young a girl so friendless , or so penniless , as Mary was at this time . 
But Mary re-entered her home after she had filled her pitcher , with a still stronger sense of anxiety , and a still clearer conviction of how much rested upon her unassisted and friendless self , alone with her terrible knowledge , in the hard , cold , populous word . 
She bathed her forehead , and quenched her thirst , and then , with wise deliberation of purpose , went upstairs , and undressed herself , as if for a long night 's slumber , although so few hours intervened before daydawn . 
She believed she never could sleep , but she lay down , and shut her eyes ; and many minutes she was in as deep and sound a slumber as if there was no sin or sorrow in the world . 
She woke up , as it was natural , much refreshed in body ; but with a consciousness of some great impending calamity . 
She sat up in bed to recollect , and when she did remember , she sank down again with all the helplessness of despair . 
Before she had finished the necessary morning business of dressing , and setting her house in some kind of order , she had disentangled her ravelled ideas , and arranged some kind of a plan for action . 
If Jem was innocent -LRB- and now , of his guilt , even his slightest participation in , or knowledge of the murder , she acquitted him with all her heart and soul -RRB- , he must have been somewhere else when the crime was committed ; probably with some others , who might bear witness to the fact , if she only knew where to find them . 
Every thing rested on her . 
She had heard of an alibi , and believed it might mean the deliverance she wished to accomplish ; but she was not quite sure , and determined to apply to job , as one of the few among her acquaintance gifted with the knowledge of hard words , for to her , all terms of law , or natural history , were alike many-syllabled mysteries . 
She went straight to Job Legh 's house , and found the old man and his grand-daughter sitting at breakfast ; as she opened the door she heard their voices speaking in a grave , hushed , subdued tone , as if something grieved their hearts . 
And now , Margaret would hear her conduct talked of by all , as that of a bold , bad girl ; and even if she did not believe every thing that was said , she could hardly help feeling wounded , and disappointed in Mary . 
So it was in a timid voice that Mary wished her usual good-morrow , and her heart sank within her a little , when Job , with a form of civility , bade her welcome in that dwelling , where , until now , she had been too well assured to require to be asked to sit down . 
She took a chair . 
said Mary , rising from her chair in her eagerness , `` you must not say he did it . 
`` I 'm loth enough to do it , lass , '' replied Job ; `` but I think he 's been ill-used , and -- jilted -LRB- that 's plain truth , Mary , hard as it may seem -RRB- , and his blood has been up -- many a man has done the like afore , from like causes . '' 
Mary thought a moment . 
answered Mary , in agony of terror , lest Job 's question was prompted by any suspicion of the truth . 
But he was far enough from any such thought . 
Indeed , he had no doubt in his own mind that Jem had , in some passionate moment , urged on by slighted love and jealousy , been the murderer . 
And he was strongly inclined to believe , that Mary was aware of this , only that , too late repentant of her light conduct which had led to such fatal consequences , she was now most anxious to save her old playfellow , her early friend , from the doom awaiting the shedder of blood . 
It 's no use hiding it , Mary ; things looks strong against him . '' 
For he was anxious that on another should fall the task of enlightening Mary on the hopelessness of the case , and he felt that her own sense would be more convinced by inquiry and examination than any mere assertion of his . 
To tell the truth , she was surprised and disappointed by the disclosure of Mary 's conduct , with regard to Mr. Henry Carson . 
Gentle , reserved , and prudent herself , never exposed to the trial of being admired for her personal appearance , and unsusceptible enough to be in doubt even yet , whether the fluttering , tender , infinitely-joyous feeling , she was for the first time experiencing , at sight , or sound , or thought of Will Wilson , was love or not , -- Margaret had no sympathy with the temptations to which loveliness , vanity , ambition , or the desire of being admired , exposes so many ; no sympathy with flirting girls , in short . 
So she could not understand how it was that Mary had acted wrongly , and had felt too much ashamed , in spite of internal sophistry , to speak of her actions . 
Margaret considered herself deceived ; felt aggrieved ; and , at the time of which I am now telling you , was strongly inclined to give Mary up altogether , as a girl devoid of the modest proprieties of her sex , and capable of gross duplicity , in speaking of one lover as she had done of Jem , while she was encouraging another in attentions , at best of a very doubtful character . 
Suddenly it flashed across Mary 's mind , that the night of the murder was the very night , or rather the same early morning , that Margaret had been with Alice . 
`` I 'll go to his mother 's , '' said Mary , resolutely . 
Mary felt she had no sympathy from them , and braced up her soul to act without such loving aid of friendship . 
She knew that their advice would be willingly given at her demand , and that was all she really required for Jem 's sake . 
Still her courage failed a little as she walked to Jane Wilson 's , alone in the world with her secret . 
Jane Wilson 's eyes were swelled with crying ; and it was sad to see the ravages which intense anxiety and sorrow had made on her appearance in four-and-twenty hours . 
All night long she and Mrs. Davenport had crooned over their sorrows , always recurring , like the burden of an old song , to the dreadest sorrow of all , which was now impending over Mrs. Wilson . 
`` So , Mary . 
Mary , lass ! 
`` But I tell thee they will , '' interrupted Mrs. Wilson , half-irritated at the light way , as she considered it , in which Mary spoke ; and a little displeased that another could hope when she had almost brought herself to find pleasure in despair . 
`` It may suit thee well , '' continued she , `` to make light o ' the misery thou hast caused ; but I shall lay his death at thy door , as long as I live , and die I know he will ; and all for what he never did -- no , he never did ; my own blessed boy ! '' 
She was too weak to be angry long ; her wrath sank away to feeble sobbing and worn-out moans . 
Mary was most anxious to soothe her from any violence of either grief or anger ; she did so want her to be clear in her recollection ; and , besides , her tenderness was great towards Jem 's mother . 
So she spoke in a low gentle tone the loving sentences , which sound so broken and powerless in repetition , and which yet have so much power , when accompanied with caressing looks and actions , fresh from the heart ; and the old woman insensibly gave herself up to the influence of those sweet , loving blue eyes , those tears of sympathy , those words of love and hope , and was lulled into a less morbid state of mind . 
Mary , wench ! 
they 've not let grass grow under their feet , in hunting out the man that did it , '' said Mary , sorrowfully and bitterly . 
Mary , I missed it ; and I may never see the lad again . '' 
She looked so piteously in Mary 's face with her miserable eyes , that Mary felt her heart giving way , and , dreading the weakness of her powers , which the burst of crying she longed for would occasion , hastily changed the subject to Alice ; and Jane , in her heart , feeling that there was no sorrow like a mother 's sorrow , replied , `` She keeps on much the same , thank you . 
She 's happy , for she knows nothing of what 's going on ; but th ' doctor says she grows weaker and weaker . 
Thou ` lt may be like to see her ? '' 
Mary went up stairs : partly because it is the etiquette in humble life , to offer to friends a last opportunity of seeing the dying or the dead , while the same etiquette forbids a refusal of the invitation ; and partly because she longed to breathe , for an instant , the atmosphere of holy calm , which seemed ever to surround the pious good old woman . 
Mary stood for a time in silence , watching and listening . 
Then she bent down and reverently kissed Alice 's cheek ; and drawing Jane Wilson away from the bed , as if the spirit of her who lay there were yet cognizant of present realities , she whispered a few words of hope to the poor mother , and kissing her over and over again in a warm , loving manner , she bade her good-bye , went a few steps , and then once more came back to bid her keep up her heart . 
how sorely Mary 's heart ached ; for more and more the fell certainty came on her that her father was the murderer ! 
She struggled hard not to dwell on this conviction ; to think alone on the means of proving Jem 's innocence ; that was her first duty , and that should be done . 
Her heart beating , her head full of ideas , which required time and solitude to be reduced into order , Mary hurried home . 
She was like one who finds a jewel of which he can not all at once ascertain the value , but who hides his treasure until some quiet hour when he may ponder over the capabilities its possession unfolds . 
She was like one who discovers the silken clue which guides to some bower of bliss , and secure of the power within his grasp , has to wait for a time before he may tread the labyrinth . 
But no jewel , no bower of bliss was ever so precious to miser or lover as was the belief which now pervaded Mary 's mind , that Jem 's innocence might be proved , without involving any suspicion of that other -- that dear one -- so dear , although so criminal -- on whose part in this cruel business she dared not dwell even in thought . 
For if she did , there arose the awful question , -- if all went against Jem the innocent , if judge and jury gave the verdict forth which had the looming gallows in the rear , what ought she to do , possessed of her terrible knowledge ? 
Surely not to inculpate her father -- and yet -- and yet -- she almost prayed for the blessed unconsciousness of death or madness , rather than that awful question should have to be answered by her . 
She was thankful she had thought of the alibi , and yet more thankful to have so easily obtained the clue to Jem 's whereabouts that miserable night . 
The bright light that her new hope threw over all , seemed also to make her thankful for the early time appointed for the trial . 
It would be easy to catch Will Wilson on his return from the Isle of Man , which he had planned should be on the Monday ; and on the Tuesday all would be made clear -- all that she dared to wish to be made clear . 
She had still to collect her thoughts and freshen her memory enough to arrange how to meet with Will -- for to the chances of a letter she would not trust ; to find out his lodgings when in Liverpool ; to try and remember the name of the ship in which he was to sail : and the more she considered these points , the more difficulty she found there would be in ascertaining these minor but important facts . 
So Mary felt hopeless of obtaining any intelligence of the sailor 's arrangements from her . 
Then , should she apply to Jem himself ! 
she knew him too well . 
She felt how thoroughly he must ere now have had it in his power to exculpate himself at another 's expense . 
And his tacit refusal so to do had assured her of what she had never doubted , that the murderer was safe from any impeachment of his . 
But then neither would he consent , she feared , to any steps which might tend to proving himself innocent . 
At any rate , she could not consult him . 
And even if she could have gone to him , I believe she would not . 
She longed to do all herself ; to be his liberator , his deliverer ; to win him life , though she might never regain his lost love by her own exertions . 
how could she see him to discuss a subject in which both knew who was the blood-stained man ; and yet whose name might not be breathed by either , so dearly with all his faults , his sins , was he loved by both . 
All at once , when she had ceased to try and remember , the name of Will 's ship flashed across her mind . 
He had named it , she had been sure , all along . 
He had named it in his conversation with her that last , that fatal Thursday evening . 
She repeated it over and over again , through a nervous dread of again forgetting it . 
And then , as if she were rousing herself out of some strange stupor , she bethought her of Margaret . 
She had gone thus far in her process of thought , when a neighbour stepped in ; she with whom they had usually deposited the house-key , when both Mary and her father were absent from home , and who consequently took upon herself to answer all inquiries , and receive all messages which any friends might make , or leave , on finding the house shut up . 
`` Here 's somewhat for you , Mary ! 
Mary was another . 
Her heart misgave her as she took it , and looked at the unusual appearance of the writing , which , though legible enough , conveyed no idea to her , or rather her mind shut itself up against receiving any idea , which after all was rather a proof she had some suspicion of the meaning that awaited her . 
asked she , in a voice from which all the pith and marrow seemed extracted . 
asked Mary again , in the same hoarse , feeble voice , and turning it over in her fingers , as if she dreaded to inform herself of its meaning . 
said Mary , faintly , as white as a sheet . 
Mary was beyond any pang this speech would have given at another time . 
Her thoughts were all busy picturing to herself the terrible occasion of their next meeting -- not as lovers meet should they meet ! 
said the neighbour , seeing no use in remaining with one who noticed her words or her presence so little ; `` thou ` lt tell policeman thou ` st getten his precious bit of paper . 
She left the house , but Mary did not know it . 
She sat still with the parchment in her hand . 
All at once she started up . 
She would take it to Job Legh , and ask him to tell her the true meaning , for it could not be that . 
So she went , and choked out her words of enquiry . 
gasped Mary , still in suspense . 
Job was struck with her voice , her changed , miserable voice , and peered at her countenance from over his spectacles . 
echoed Mary , but in such a different tone . 
may be thou may do him a bit o ' good , for when they set eyes on thee , they 'll see fast enough how he came to be so led away by jealousy ; for thour ' t a pretty creature , Mary , and one look at thy face will let 'em into th ' secret of a young man 's madness , and make 'em more ready to pass it over . '' 
`` I 'd give half my remaining days on earth , -- I 'd give them all , Mary -LRB- and but for the love I bear to my poor blind girl , they 'd be no great gift -RRB- , if I could save him . 
You 've thought me hard , Mary , but I 'm not hard at bottom , and I 'll help you if I can ; that I will , right or wrong , '' he added ; but in a low voice , and coughed the uncertain words away the moment afterwards . 
if you will help me , '' exclaimed Mary , brightening up -LRB- though it was but a wintry gleam after all -RRB- , `` tell me what to say , when they question me ; I shall be so gloppened , `` Gloppened , '' terrified . 
Look , Mary , how well she guides hersel . '' 
Mary shrank as if from a cold blast -- shrank from Margaret ! 
Mary knew herself to blame ; felt her errors in every fibre of her heart ; but yet she would rather have had them spoken about , even in terms of severest censure , than have been treated in the icy manner in which Margaret had received her that morning . 
`` Here 's Mary , '' said Job , almost as if he wished to propitiate his grand-daughter , `` come to take a bit of dinner with us , for I 'll warrant she 's never thought of cooking any for herself to-day ; and she looks as wan and pale as a ghost . '' 
Margaret came towards Mary with a welcoming gesture , and a kinder manner by far than she had used in the morning . 
`` Nay , Mary , thou know ` st thou ` st getten nought at home , '' urged Job . 
And Mary , faint and weary , and with a heart too aching-full of other matters to be pertinacious in this , withdrew her refusal . 
Mary had not , and felt sure his mother had not . 
So spoke Mary , calm , from the earnestness of her purpose . 
`` I do build on it , '' replied Mary , `` because I know it 's the truth , and I mean to try and prove it , come what may . 
They respected her firmness of determination , and Job almost gave into her belief , when he saw how steadfastly she was acting upon it . 
Mary gained courage as she instinctively felt she had made way with one at least of her companions . 
`` Now I 'm clear about this much , '' she continued , `` he was with Will when the -- shot was fired -LRB- she could not bring herself to say , when the murder was committed , when she remembered who it was that , she had every reason to believe , was the taker-away of life . -RRB- 
She stopped , oppressed with the fulness of her heart . 
Margaret began to love her again ; to see in her the same , sweet , faulty , impulsive , loveable creature she had known in the former Mary Barton , but with more of dignity , self-reliance , and purpose . 
Mary spoke again . 
She appealed to her friend calmly and openly , as if perfectly aware of , and recognising the unspoken tie which bound her and Will together ; she asked her in the same manner in which she would have asked a wife where her husband dwelt . 
`` Well , Mary ! 
Margaret and Mary were left alone . 
But Mary , excited to an unusual pitch of courage , was the first to break silence . 
said she , `` I see -- I feel how wrong you think I have acted ; you can not think me worse than I think myself , now my eyes are opened . '' 
Here her sobs came choking up her voice . 
Margaret , said Mary , '' with anxious impatience . 
`` I know nought about law , or alibis , `` replied Margaret , meekly ; but , Mary , as grandfather says , are n't you building too much on what Jane Wilson has told you about his going with Will ? 
`` You do n't know Jem , '' said Mary , starting from her seat in a hurried manner , `` or you would not say so . '' 
`` I hope I may be wrong ; but think , Mary , how much there is against him . 
Mary heaved a deep sigh . 
`` But , Margaret , he did not do it , '' Mary again asserted . 
`` Do n't fly off , dear Mary , I 'd give a deal to be wrong . 
do n't make such ado about it , '' said Margaret , cutting short Mary 's thanks . 
Mary had been too much engrossed by watching what was passing in the street to attend very closely to that which Margaret was saying . 
Mary dreaded lest he should ; and she be subjected to a closer cross-examination than she had hitherto undergone , as to why she was so certain that Jem was innocent . 
She feared he was coming ; he stepped a little towards the spot . 
it was only to make way for a child , tottering along , whom Mary had overlooked . 
The gentleman looked `` fidging fain '' to be gone , but submitted in a manner that made Mary like him in spite of his profession . 
Mary , '' said he , on entering , `` I 've seen the lawyer , not Mr. Cheshire though ; trials for murder , it seems , are not his line o ' business . 
I wanted him just come over and speak to you himsel , Mary , but he was pressed for time ; and he said your evidence would not be much either here or there . 
He 's going to the ` sizes first train on Monday morning , and will see Jem , and hear the ins and outs from him , and he 's gived me his address , Mary , and you and Will are to call on him -LRB- Will ` special -RRB- on Monday , at two o'clock . 
Thou ` rt taking it in , Mary ; thou ` rt to call on him in Liverpool at two , Monday afternoon ? '' 
Job had reason to doubt if she fully understood him ; for all this minuteness of detail , these satisfactory arrangements , as he considered them , only seemed to bring the circumstances in which she was placed more vividly home to Mary . 
They convinced her that it was real , and not all a dream , as she had sunk into fancying it for a few minutes , while sitting in the old accustomed place , her body enjoying the rest , and her frame sustained by food , and listening to Margaret 's calm voice . 
The gentleman she had just beheld would see and question Jem in a few hours , and what would be the result ? 
Monday : that was the day after to-morrow , and on Tuesday , life and death would be tremendous realities to her lover ; or else death would be an awful certainty to her father . 
Job ceased talking , and the silence roused Mary up to thank him . 
`` I 'm sure , '' said Mary , `` he went straight from here , purposing to go to see his uncle at the Isle of Man , and be back Sunday night , ready for the ship sailing on Tuesday . '' 
`` And the ship 's name was the John Cropper , and he lodged where I told Mary before . 
Have you got it down , Mary ? '' 
Mary wrote it on the back of Mr. Bridgenorth 's card . 
`` He was not over willing to go , '' said she , as she wrote , `` for he knew little about his uncle , and said he did n't care if he never know 'd more . 
Margaret had to go and practise some singing in town ; so , though loth to depart and be alone , Mary bade her friends good-bye . 
Mary could not be patient in her loneliness ; so much painful thought weighed on her mind ; the very house was haunted with memories , and foreshadowings . 
Having performed all duties to Jem , as far as her weak powers , yet loving heart could act ; and a black veil being drawn over her father 's past , present , and future life , beyond which she could not penetrate to judge of any filial service she ought to render ; her mind unconsciously sought after some course of action in which she might engage . 
And then came up the old feeling which first bound Ruth to Naomi ; the love they both held towards one object ; and Mary felt that her cares would be most lightened by being of use , or of comfort to his mother . 
So she once more locked up the house , and set off towards Ancoats ; rushing along with down-cast head , for fear lest any one should recognise her and arrest her progress . 
Jane Wilson sat quietly in her chair as Mary entered ; so quietly , as to strike one by the contrast it presented to her usual bustling , and nervous manner . 
She looked very pale and wan ; but the quietness was the thing that struck Mary most . 
She did not rise as Mary came in , but sat still and said something in so gentle , so feeble a voice , that Mary did not catch it . 
Mrs. Davenport , who was there , plucked Mary by the gown , and whispered , `` Never heed her ; she 's worn out , and best let alone . 
But Mary , touched by the anxious look with which Mrs. Wilson gazed at her , as if waiting the answer to some question , went forward to listen to the speech she was again repeating . 
Then Mary looked , and saw another ominous slip of parchment in the mother 's hand , which she was rolling up and down in a tremulous manner between her fingers . 
Mary 's heart sickened within her ; and she could not speak . 
she repeated . 
She still looked at Mary , with the same child-like gaze of wonder and patient entreaty . 
What could she answer ? 
`` I telled ye not to heed her , '' said Mrs. Devenport , a little angrily . 
`` She knows well enough what it is , -- too well , belike . 
her as can testify to its being his , and she let on so easily to the policeman that it was his , that there 's no getting off her word now . 
Poor body ; she takes it very hard , I dare say ! '' 
Speak to her , Mary , wench , and ask for a sight on it ; I 've tried and better-tried to get it from her , and she takes no heed of words , and I 'm loth to pull it by force out of her hands . '' 
Mary drew the little `` cricket ''`` Cricket , '' a stool . 
Mary calmly and openly picked it up , without any attempt at concealment , and quietly placing it in sight of the anxious eyes that followed it with a kind of spellbound dread , went on with her soothing caresses . 
`` She has had no sleep for many nights , '' said the girl to Mrs. Davenport , `` and all this woe and sorrow , -- it 's no wonder . '' 
`` We must get her fairly to bed ; we must get her undressed , and all ; and trust to God in His mercy , to send her to sleep , or else , -- '' For , you see , they spoke before her as if she were not there ; her heart was so far away . 
They had once thought of placing her in Jem 's bed , to be out of sight or sound of any disturbance of Alice 's , but then again they remembered the shock she might receive in awakening in so unusual a place , and also that Mary , who intended to keep vigil that night in the house of mourning , would find it difficult to divide her attention in the possible cases that might ensue . 
So they laid her , as I said before , on that little palletbed ; and , as they were slowly withdrawing from the bed-side , hoping and praying that she might sleep , and forget for a time her heavy burden , she looked wistfully after Mary , and whispered . 
And gazing in her face for the expected answer , her eye-lids slowly closed , and she fell into a deep , heavy sleep , almost as profound a rest as death . 
Mrs. Davenport went her way , and Mary was alone , -- for I can not call those who sleep allies , against the agony of thought which solitude sometimes brings up . 
She dreaded the night before her . 
Alice might die ; the doctor had that day declared her case hopeless , and not far from death ; and at times the terror , so natural to the young , not of death , but of the remains of the dead , came over Mary ; and she bent and listened anxiously for the long-drawn , pausing breath of the sleeping Alice . 
Or Mrs. Wilson might awake in a state which Mary dreaded to anticipate , and anticipated while she dreaded ; -- in a state of complete delirium . 
Already her senses had been severely stunned by the full explanation of what was required of her , -- of what she had to prove against her son , her Jem , her only child , -- which Mary could not doubt the officious Mrs. Heming had given ; and what if in dreams -LRB- that land into which no sympathy nor love can penetrate with another , either to share its bliss or its agony , -- that land whose scenes are unspeakable terrors , are hidden mysteries , are priceless treasures to one alone , -- that land where alone I may see , while yet I tarry here , the sweet looks of my dead child -RRB- , -- what if , in the horrors of her dreams , her brain should go still more astray , and she should waken crazy with her visions , and the terrible reality that begot them ? 
How Mary dreaded that night , and how calmly it passed by ! 
Even more so than if Mary had not had such claims upon her care ! 
Anxiety about them deadened her own peculiar anxieties . 
She thought of the sleepers whom she was watching , till overpowered herself by the want of rest , she fell off into short slumbers in which the night wore imperceptibly away . 
To be sure Alice spoke , and sang during her waking moments , like the child she deemed herself ; but so happily with the dearly-loved ones around her , with the scent of the heather , and the song of the wild bird hovering about her in imagination -- with old scraps of ballads , or old snatches of primitive versions of the Psalms -LRB- such as are sung in country churches half draperied over with ivy , and where the running brook , or the murmuring wind among the trees makes fit accompaniment to the chorus of human voices uttering praise and thanksgiving to their God -RRB- -- that the speech and the song gave comfort and good cheer to the listener 's heart , and the gray dawn began to dim the light of the rush-candle , before Mary thought it possible that day was already trembling in the horizon . 
Then she got up from the chair where she had been dozing , and went , half-asleep , to the window to assure herself that morning was at hand . 
When Mary turned from the window , she went to the bed of each sleeper , to look and listen . 
Mrs. Wilson 's countenance was stamped with the anxiety of the last few days , although she , too , appeared sleeping soundly ; but as Mary gazed on her , trying to trace a likeness to her son in her face , she awoke and looked up into Mary 's eyes , while the expression of consciousness came back into her own . 
Mary 's eyes had fallen beneath that penetrating gaze , in which the agony of memory seemed every minute to find fuller vent . 
replied Mary , in the same tone . 
Mary offered no opposition when she indicated by languid gesture and action that she wished to rise . 
When she was dressed with Mary 's aid , she stood by Alice for a minute or two looking at the slumberer . 
`` How happy she is ! '' 
said she , quietly and sadly . 
All the time that Mary was getting breakfast ready , and performing every other little domestic office she could think of , to add to the comfort of Jem 's mother , Mrs. Wilson sat still in the arm-chair , watching her silently . 
Mary told her all that had been done with regard to Mr. Bridgenorth ; all her own plans for seeking out Will ; all her hopes ; and concealed as well as she could all the doubts and fears that would rise unbidden . 
When Mary ceased she sighed and said , `` Oh wench ! 
Hereupon she broke into a feeble wail of self-reproach , that her outward show of misery was not greater ; as if any cries , or tears , or loud-spoken words could have told of such pangs at the heart as that look , and that thin , piping , altered voice ! 
But think of Mary and what she was enduring ! 
Picture to yourself -LRB- for I can not tell you -RRB- the armies of thoughts that met and clashed in her brain ; and then imagine the effort it cost her to be calm , and quiet , and even in a faint way , cheerful and smiling at times . 
After a while she began to stir about in her own mind for some means of sparing the poor mother the trial of appearing as a witness in the matter of the gun . 
She had made no allusion to her summons this morning , and Mary almost thought she must have forgotten it ; and surely some means might be found to prevent that additional sorrow . 
She must see Job about it ; nay , if necessary , she must see Mr. Bridgenorth , with all his truth-compelling powers ; for , indeed , she had so struggled and triumphed -LRB- though a sadly-bleeding victor at heart -RRB- over herself these two last days , had so concealed agony , and hidden her inward woe and bewilderment , that she began to take confidence , and to have faith in her own powers of meeting any one with a passably fair show , whatever might be rending her life beneath the cloak of her deception . 
Accordingly , as soon as Mrs. Davenport came in after morning church , to ask after the two lone women , and she had heard the report Mary had to give -LRB- so much better as regarded Mrs. Wilson than what they had feared the night before it would have been -RRB- -- as soon as this kind-hearted , grateful woman came in , Mary , telling her her purpose , went off to fetch the doctor who attended Alice . 
However , he subdued his face to the proper expression of sympathy , befitting a doctor listening to a patient , or a patient 's friend -LRB- and Mary 's sad , pale , anxious face , might be taken for either the one , or the other -RRB- . 
He bustled on his hat and coat , and followed Mary , instantly . 
After shaking his head over Alice -LRB- as if it was a mournful thing for one so pure and good , so true , although so humble a Christian , to be nearing her desired heaven -RRB- , and muttering the accustomed words intended to destroy hope , and prepare anticipation , he went in compliance with Mary 's look to ask the usual questions of Mrs. Wilson , who sat passively in her arm-chair . 
asked Mary , eagerly . 
`` Why -- a , '' began he , perceiving that he was desired to take one side in his answer , and unable to find out whether his listener was anxious for a favourable verdict or otherwise ; but thinking it most probable that she would desire the former , he continued , `` She is weak , certainly ; the natural result of such a shock as the arrest of her son would be , -- for I understand this James Wilson , who murdered Mr. Carson , was her son . 
said Mary , indignantly . 
asked Mary , still in the anxious tone of one who wishes earnestly for some particular decision . 
burst out Mary , almost sobbing ; `` I did so hope you would say she was too ill to go . '' 
The lawyer , you know , '' continued she , seeing him look puzzled , `` who is to defend Jem , -- it was as a witness against him -- '' `` My dear girl ? '' 
I second the lawyer ; take counsel with both the learned professions -- ha , ha , ha , -- '' And laughing at his own joke , he departed , leaving Mary , accusing herself of stupidity in having imagined that every one was as well acquainted with the facts concerning the trial as she was herself ; for indeed she had never doubted that the doctor would have been aware of the purpose of poor Mrs. Wilson 's journey to Liverpool . 
`` But it is no trick , '' said Mary . 
Mary went home . 
how her head did ache , and how dizzy her brain was growing ! 
But there would be time enough she felt for giving way , hereafter . 
So she sat quiet and still by an effort ; sitting near the window , and looking out of it , but seeing nothing , when all at once she caught sight of something which roused her up , and made her draw back . 
She had been seen . 
She was really curious to see Mary ; her connexion with a murderer seemed to have made her into a sort of lusus naturæ , and was almost , by some , expected to have made a change in her personal appearance , so earnestly did they stare at her . 
But Mary had been too much absorbed the last day or two to notice this . 
-- '' Such particulars would make Sally into a Gazette Extraordinary the next morning at the work-room , and were worth coming for , even if little else could be extracted from Mary . 
`` Why , Mary ! '' 
she began . 
Some on us , indeed , were a bit sorry for the poor young man , as lies stiff and cold for your sake , Mary ; but we shall ne'er cast it up against you . 
`` I ca n't , '' Mary said , in a low voice . 
`` Why , Mary ! '' 
Really , Mary , you 'll turn out quite a heroine . '' 
The little fingers twitched worse than ever ; the large soft eyes looked up pleadingly into Sally 's face ; but she went on in the same strain , not from any unkind or cruel feeling towards Mary , but solely because she was incapable of comprehending her suffering . 
She had been shocked , of course , at Mr. Carson 's death , though at the same time the excitement was rather pleasant than otherwise ; and dearly now would she have enjoyed the conspicuous notice which Mary was sure to receive . 
`` How shall you like being cross-examined , Mary ? '' 
`` Not at all , '' answered Mary , when she found she must answer . 
I should n't wonder '' -LRB- in a comforting tone , and really believing she was giving comfort -RRB- `` if you picked up a new sweetheart in Liverpool . 
What gown are you going in , Mary ? '' 
`` Oh , I do n't know and do n't care , '' exclaimed Mary , sick and weary of her visitor . 
Now mind , Mary . 
And I 'll lend you my black watered scarf , '' added she , really good-naturedly , according to her sense of things , and withal , a little bit pleased at the idea of her pet article of dress figuring away on the person of a witness at a trial for murder . 
said Mary ; `` thank you , but ` I do n't wa n't it . '' 
said she , brightening up at the thought , and willing to lend it , or any thing else . 
asked Mary , firing up from the state of languid indifference into which she had sunk while Sally had been settling about her dress . 
Mary paused ; she was going on too fast with one so curious and so unscrupulous . 
Besides she remembered how even she herself had , at first , believed him guilty ; and she felt it was not for her to cast stones at those who , on similar evidence , inclined to the same belief . 
But Mary disliked the whole conversation ; the subject , the manner in which it was treated , were all painful , and she had a repugnance to the person with whom she spoke . 
She was thankful , therefore , when Job Legh 's voice was heard at the door , as he stood with the latch in his hand , talking to a neighbour , and when Sally jumped up in vexation and said , `` There 's that old fogey coming in here as I 'm alive ! 
Goodbye , Mary . '' 
So far in a whisper , then louder , `` If you think better of my offer about the scarf , Mary , just step in to-morrow before nine , and you 're quite welcome to it . '' 
`` Yon 's a bold , bad girl , '' said Job to Mary . 
`` She 's very good-natured , '' replied Mary , too honourable to abuse a visitor who had only that instant crossed her threshold , and gladly dwelling on the good quality most apparent in Sally 's character . 
`` I do n't know if she 's so bad as all that , '' said Mary , who began to dread her part in doing any thing which might tell against her poor lover . 
Mrs. Wilson sat quietly in her chair , with just the same look Mary had left on her face ; Mrs. Davenport went about with creaking shoes which made all the more noise from her careful and lengthened tread , annoying the ears of those who were well , in this instance , far more than the dull senses of the sick and the sorrowful . 
At length he pulled Mary aside into a corner of the house-place where Mrs. Wilson was sitting , and began to talk to her . 
`` Yo 're right , Mary ! 
She 's no ways fit to go to Liverpool , poor soul . 
Now I 've seen her I only wonder the doctor could ha ' been unsettled in his mind at th ' first . 
Choose how it goes wi ' poor Jem , she can not go . 
One way or another it will soon be over , the best to leave her in the state she is till then . '' 
`` I was sure you would think so , '' said Mary . 
They esteemed her senses gone , while in fact , they were only inert , and could not convey impressions rapidly to the over-burdened , troubled brain . 
They had not noticed that her eyes had followed them -LRB- mechanically it seemed at first -RRB- as they had moved away to the corner of the room ; that her face hitherto so changeless , had begun to work with one or two of the old symptoms of impatience . 
But when they were silent she stood up , and startled them almost as if a dead person had spoken , by saying clearly and decidedly -- `` I go to Liverpool . 
Still they made some look , or gesture of opposition to her wishes . 
She turned sharp round on Mary , the old object of her pettish attacks , and said , `` Now wench ! 
She sank back in her chair , quite exhausted by the sudden effort she had made ; but if they even offered to speak , she cut them short -LRB- whatever the subject might be -RRB- , with the repetition of the same words , `` I shall go to Liverpool . '' 
No more could be said , the doctor 's opinion had been so undecided ; Mr. Bridgenorth had given his legal voice in favour of her going , and Mary was obliged to relinquish the idea of persuading her to remain at home , if indeed under all the circumstances it could be thought desirable . 
`` Best way will be , '' said Job , `` for me to hunt out Will , early to-morrow morning , and yo , Mary , come at after with Jane Wilson . 
Now Mary disliked this plan inexpressibly ; her dislike was partly grounded on reason , and partly on feeling . 
She could not bear the idea of deputing to any one the active measures necessary to be taken in order to save Jem . 
She felt as if they were her duty , her right . 
She durst not trust to any one the completion of her plan : they might not have energy , or perseverance , or desperation enough to follow out the slightest chance ; and her love would endow her with all these qualities , independently of the terrible alternative which awaited her in case all failed and Jem was condemned . 
No one could have her motives ; and consequently no one could have her sharpened brain , her despairing determination . 
Beside -LRB- only that was purely selfish -RRB- , she could not endure the suspense of remaining quiet , and only knowing the result when all was accomplished . 
So with vehemence and impatience she rebutted every reason Job adduced for his plan ; and , of course , thus opposed , by what appeared to him wilfulness , he became more resolute , and angry words were exchanged , and a feeling of estrangement rose up between them , for a time , as they walked homewards . 
But then came in Margaret with her gentleness , like an angel of peace , so calm and reasonable , that both felt ashamed of their irritation , and tacitly left the decision to her -LRB- only , by the way , I think Mary could never have submitted if it had gone against her , penitent and tearful as was her manner now to Job , the good old man who was helping her to work for Jem , although they differed as to the manner -RRB- . 
`` Mary had better go , '' said Margaret to her grandfather , in a low tone , `` I know what she 's feeling , and it will be a comfort to her soon , may be , to think she did all she could herself . 
She would perhaps fancy it might have been different ; do , grandfather , let her . '' 
Margaret had still , you see , little or no belief in Jem 's innocence ; and besides she thought if Mary saw Will , and heard herself from him that Jem had not been with him that Thursday night , it would in a measure break the force of the blow which was impending . 
And you take Mrs. Wilson , dear grandad , and let Mary go find Will , and you can all meet together at after , and I 'm sure I wish you luck . '' 
Mary was thankful for Margaret 's interference . 
She did not speak , but threw her arms round Margaret 's neck , and put up her rosy-red mouth to be kissed , and even Job was attracted by the pretty , child-like gesture ; and when she drew near him , afterwards , like a little creature sidling up to some person whom it feels to have offended , he bent down and blessed her , as if she had been a child of his own . 
To Mary the old man 's blessing came like words of power . 
Among the passengers there was Mary Barton , dressed in the blue gown and obnoxious plaid shawl . 
Common as railroads are now in all places as a means of transit , and especially in Manchester , Mary had never been on one before ; and she felt bewildered by the hurry , the noise of people , and bells , and horns ; the whiz and the scream of the arriving trains . 
The very journey itself seemed to her a matter of wonder . 
She had a back seat , and looked towards the factory-chimneys , and the cloud of smoke which hovers over Manchester , with a feeling akin to the `` Heimweh . '' 
She was losing sight of the familiar objects of her childhood for the first time ; and unpleasant as those objects are to most , she yearned after them with some of the same sentiment which gives pathos to the thoughts of the emigrant . 
The cloud-shadows which give beauty to Chat-Moss , the picturesque old houses of Newton , what were they to Mary , whose heart was full of many things . 
Yet she seemed to look at them earnestly as they glided past ; but she neither saw nor heard . 
She neither saw nor heard till some well-known names fell upon her ear . 
It was but another drop to Mary 's cup ; but she was nearly in that state which Crabbe describes , `` For when so full the cup of sorrows flows Add but a drop , it instantly o'erflows . '' 
-- and now they were in Liverpool ; and she must rouse herself from the torpor of mind and body , which was creeping over her ; the result of much anxiety and fatigue , and several sleepless nights . 
She asked a policeman the way to Milk House Yard , and following his directions with the savoir faire of a town-bred girl , she reached a little court leading out of a busy , thronged street , not far from the Docks . 
Mary 's fluttered and excited appearance strengthened this prejudice in Mrs. Jones 's mind , as she stood , stripping the soap-suds off her arms , while she eyed her visitor , and waited to be told what her business was . 
Mary 's voice seemed choked up in her throat . 
asked Mary , sickening . 
But Mary bent forwards with suppliant action -LRB- as some young tree bends , when blown by the rough , autumnal wind -RRB- , and gasped out . 
cried Mary . 
Mary staggered into the house . 
said Mary , catching at the words , and with a strong effort controlling the mind she felt to be wandering , while the red blood flushed to scarlet the heretofore white cheek , `` I 'm not out of my senses ; there is so much to be done -- so much -- and no one but me to do it , you know , -- though I ca n't rightly tell what it is , '' looking up with bewilderment into Mrs. Jones 's face . 
`` I thought she was not to sail till to-morrow , '' murmured Mary . 
`` And he 's sailed , '' repeated Mary , trying by repetition to realise the fact to herself . 
She called out loudly for her son : but Charley was one of those boys who are never `` far to seek , '' as the Lancashire people say , when anything is going on ; a mysterious conversation , an unusual event , a fire , or a riot , any thing , in short ; such boys are the little omnipresent people of this world . 
moaned Mary . 
Mary roused herself . 
The sympathetic `` we '' gave her heart and hope . 
But she spoke louder , and in a more life-like tone . 
You see , '' -LRB- proud of his office of instructor , and insensibly influenced , as all about her were , by Mary 's sweet , earnest , lovely countenance -RRB- `` there 's sand-banks at the mouth of the river , and ships ca n't get over them but at high-water ; especially ships of heavy burden , like the John Cropper . 
asked Mary , to whom all this explanation had been a vague mystery . 
Mary had humbly and eagerly -LRB- oh , how eagerly ! -RRB- 
listened to this young Sir Oracle 's speech ; but try as she would , she could only understand that she must make haste , and sail -- somewhere -- `` I beg your pardon , '' -LRB- and her little acknowledgment of inferiority in this speech pleased the lad , and made him her still more zealous friend . -RRB- 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said she , `` but I do n't know where to get a boat . 
`` Oh , you need not tell me that , if I but knew how , '' said Mary , trembling with eagerness . 
And before the gentle Mrs. Jones could collect her scattered wits sufficiently to understand half of the hastily formed plan , her son was scudding down the street , closely followed by Mary 's half-running steps . 
Presently he slackened his pace sufficiently to enable him to enter into conversation with Mary , for once escaped from the reach of his mother 's recalling voice , he thought he might venture to indulge his curiosity . 
`` My name is Mary , -- Mary Barton , '' answered she , anxious to propitiate one who seemed so willing to exert himself in her behalf , or else she grudged every word which caused the slightest relaxation in her speed , although her chest seemed tightened , and her head throbbing , from the rate at which they were walking . 
`` Mary , is Jem your brother , or your sweetheart , that you 're so set upon saving him ? '' 
`` No -- no , '' replied she , but with something of hesitation , that made the shrewd boy yet more anxious to clear up the mystery . 
said she , with nervous terror , as Charley turned back a few steps , and peered up a side street . 
`` Oh , nothing to flurry you so , Mary . 
come here , '' as Mary , in her eagernes , was looking at any window that caught her eye first , to satisfy the boy . 
Another rush onwards , till one of the long crossings near the docks caused a stoppage , and gave Mary time for breathing , and Charley leisure to ask another question . 
`` Manchester , '' replied she , `` Eh , then ! 
And Mary did look , and saw down an opening made in the forest of masts belonging to the vessels in dock , the glorious river , along which white-sailed ships were gliding with the ensigns of all nations not `` braving the battle , '' but telling of the distant lands , spicy or frozen , that sent to that mighty mart for their comforts or their luxuries ; she saw small boats passing to and fro on that glittering highway , but she also saw such puffs and clouds of smoke from the countless steamers , that she wondered at Charley 's intolerance of the smoke of Manchester . 
The cries of the sailors , the variety of languages used by the passers-by , and the entire novelty of the sight compared with any thing which Mary had ever seen , made her feel most helpless and forlorn ; and she clung to her young guide as to one who alone by his superior knowledge could interpret between her and the new race of men by whom she was surrounded , -- for a new race sailors might reasonably be considered , to a girl who had hitherto seen none but inland dwellers , and those for the greater part factory people . 
Mary assented quietly to this speech , as if she were as careless as Charley seemed now to be about her overtaking Will ; but in truth her heart was sinking within her , and she no longer felt the energy which had hitherto upheld her . 
Her bodily strength was giving way , and she stood cold and shivering , although the noon-day sun beat down with considerable power on the shadeless spot where she was standing . 
said Charley ; and altering his manner from the patronising key in which he had spoken to Mary , he addressed a weather-beaten old sailor who came rolling along the pathway where they stood , his hands in his pockets , and his quid in his mouth , with very much the air of one who had nothing to do but look about him , and spit right and left ; addressing this old tar , Charley made known to him his wish in slang , which to Mary was almost inaudible , and quite unintelligible , and which I am too much of a land-lubber to repeat correctly . 
Mary watched looks and actions with a renovated keenness of perception . 
She saw the old man listen attentively to Charley ; she saw him eye her over from head to foot , and wind up his inspection with a little nod of approbation -LRB- for her very shabbiness and poverty of dress were creditable signs to the experienced old sailor -RRB- , and then she watched him leisurely swing himself on to a ship in the basin , and borrowing a glass run up the mast with the speed of a monkey . 
said she , in affright , clutching at Charley 's arm , and judging the sailor , from his storm-marked face and unsteady walk on land , to be much older than he really was . 
You 'll not tell her , Mary ? '' 
exclaimed she -LRB- his secret was very safe with her , for , in fact , she had not heard it -RRB- , `` See ! 
But unable to wait another instant she called out herself , `` Can you see the John Cropper ? 
Is she there yet ? '' 
`` Ay , ay , '' he answered , and coming quickly up to them , he hurried them away to seek for a boat , saying the bar was already covered , and in an hour the ship would hoist her sails , and be off . 
`` Oh , pray make haste , '' called Mary . 
Where is she , Charley ? 
`` In the offing she is , sure enough , miss , '' answered one of the men , shoving Charley on one side , regarding him as too young to be a principal in the bargain . 
Only make haste -- I 've enough to pay you , but every moment is precious , '' said Mary . 
`` Poor Mary 's ideas of `` plenty of money , '' however , were different to those entertained by the boatmen . 
While Charley , with a boy 's impatience of delay , and disregard to money , kept urging , `` Give it 'em , Mary ; they 'll none of them take you for less . 
Mary had not understood that Charley was not coming with her . 
In fact , she had not thought about it , till she perceived his absence , as they pushed off from the landing-place , and remembered that she had never thanked him for all his kind interest in her behalf , and now his absence made her feel most lonely -- even his , the little mushroom friend of an hour 's growth . 
The boat threaded her way through the maze of larger vessels which surrounded the shore , bumping against one , kept off by the oars from going right against another , overshadowed by a third , until at length they were fairly out on the broad river , away from either shore ; the sights , and sounds of land being lost in the distance . 
Once Mary in her impatience had risen up to obtain a better view of the progress they had made , but the men had roughly told her to sit down immediately , and she had dropped on her seat like a chidden child , although the impatience was still at her heart . 
But now she grew sure they were turning off from the straight course which they had hitherto kept on the Cheshire side of the river , whither they had gone to avoid the force of the current , and after a short time she could not help naming her conviction , as a kind of nightmare dread and belief came over her , that every thing animate and inanimate was in league against her one sole aim and object of overtaking Will . 
So she sat silent with clenched hands while the parley went on , the explanation was given , the favour asked and granted . 
But she was sickening all the time with nervous fear . 
They had been rowing a long , long time -- half a day it seemed , at least -- yet Liverpool appeared still close at hand , and Mary began almost to wonder that the men were not as much disheartened as she was , when the wind which had been hitherto against them , dropped , and thin clouds began to gather over the sky , shutting out the sun , and casting a chilly gloom over every thing . 
Mary shivered , and her heart sank within her . 
Then the steersman pointed to a rippling line in the river only a little way off , and the men disturbed Mary , who was watching the ships that lay in what appeared to her the open sea , to get at their sails . 
She gave a little start , and rose . 
Her patience , her grief , and perhaps her silence , had begun to win upon the men . 
Wind 's right now , and sails will soon carry us alongside of her . '' 
He had forgotten -LRB- or perhaps he did not like to remind Mary -RRB- , that the same wind which now bore their little craft along with easy , rapid motion , would also be favourable to the John Cropper . 
But as they looked with straining eyes , as if to measure the decreasing distance that separated them from her , they saw her sails unfurled and flap in the breeze , till catching the right point , they bellied forth into white roundness , and the ship began to plunge and heave , as if she were a living creature , impatient to be off . 
Full of the spirit of the chase , though as yet ignorant of Mary 's motives , the men sprung to hoist another sail . 
It was fully as much as the boat could bear , in the keen , gusty east wind which was now blowing , and she bent and laboured , and ploughed , and creaked upbraidingly as if tasked beyond her strength ; but she sped along with a gallant swiftness . 
Mary stood up , steadying herself by the mast , and stretched out her arms , imploring the flying vessel to stay its course , by that mute action , while the tears streamed down her cheeks . 
For the men fearing that , as the ship was now fairly over the bar , they should only increase the distance between them , and being now within shouting range , had asked of Mary her more particular desire . 
Her throat was dry , all musical sound had gone out of her voice ; but in a loud harsh whisper she told the men her errand of life and death , and they hailed the ship . 
asked the boatman of Mary , in a lower voice , and taking his hands down from his mouth . 
`` Say I 'm Mary Barton . 
He swore a dreadful oath ; he called Mary a disgraceful name ; and he said he would not stop his ship for any one , nor could he part with a single hand , whoever swung for it . 
Mary sat down looking like one who prays in the death agony . 
For her eyes were turned up to that Heaven , where mercy dwelleth , while her blue lips quivered , though no sound came . 
Then she bowed her head and hid it in her hands . 
She looked up . 
And her heart stopped its beating to listen . 
`` So help me God , Mary Barton , I 'll come back in the pilot boat , time enough to save the life of the innocent . '' 
asked Mary , wildly , as the voice died away in the increasing distance , while the boatmen cheered , in their kindled sympathy with their passenger . 
repeated she . 
She had heard with her ears , but her brain refused to recognise the sense . 
They repeated his speech , all three speaking at once , with many comments ; while Mary looked at them and then at the vessel far away . 
`` I do n't rightly know about it , '' said she , sorrowfully . 
They told her , and she gathered the meaning out of the sailors ' slang which enveloped it . 
They began disputing , and urging reasons ; and Mary tried to understand them ; but independently of their nautical language , a veil seemed drawn over her mind , and she had no clear perception of any thing that passed . 
Her very words seemed not her own , and beyond her power of control , for she found herself speaking quite differently to what she meant . 
One by one her hopes had fallen away , and left her desolate ; and though a chance yet remained , she could no longer hope . 
She felt certain it , too , would fade and vanish . 
She sank into a kind of stupor . 
All outward objects harmonised with her despair , -- the gloomy leaden sky , -- the deep , dark waters below , of a still heavier shade of colour , -- the cold , flat , yellow shore in the distance , which no ray lightened up , -- the nipping cutting wind . 
She shivered with her depression of mind and body . 
The men talked together , disputing about the pilots at first , and then about matters of local importance , in which Mary would have taken no interest at any time , and she gradually became drowsy ; irrepressibly so , indeed , for in spite of her jerking efforts to keep awake she sank away to the bottom of the boat , and there lay couched on a rough heap of sails , ropes , and tackle of various kinds . 
The measured beat of the waters against the sides of the boat , and the musical boom of the more distant waves , were more lulling than silence , and she slept sound . 
Once she opened her eyes heavily , and dimly saw the old gray , rough boatman -LRB- who had stood out the most obstinately for the full fare -RRB- covering her with his thick pea jacket . 
He had taken it off on purpose , and was doing it tenderly in his way , but before she could rouse herself up to thank him she had dropped off to sleep again . 
The men spoke to Mary , but though she mechanically replied , she did not stir ; so , at length , they were obliged to shake her . 
She stood up , shivering and puzzled as to her whereabouts . 
She slowly comprehended what he said , and went through the process of recollection ; but very dimly , and with much labour . 
She put her hand into her pocket and pulled out her purse , and shook its contents into the man 's hand ; and then began meekly to unpin her shawl , although they had turned away without asking for it . 
said the older man , who lingered on the step before springing into the boat , and to whom she mutely offered the shawl . 
`` Thank you , '' said she , in a dull , low tone . 
I 'm a stranger , '' replied she , quietly , with a strange absence of anxiety under the circumstances . 
`` I 've a card somewhere as will tell me , '' she answered , and the man partly relieved , jumped into the boat , which was now pushing off to make way for the arrivals from some steamer . 
Mary felt in her pocket for the card , on which was written the name of the street where she was to have met Mr. Bridgenorth at two o'clock ; where Job and Mrs. Wilson were to have been , and where she was to have learnt from the former the particulars of some respectable lodging . 
He shook Mary 's shoulder violently . 
`` I do n't know , '' sighed Mary . 
She looked again down upon the black mirror below . 
He stood by her , striving to put down his better self ; but he could not . 
He shook her again . 
She looked up , as if she had forgotten him . 
asked she wearily . 
replied he , clutching her arm to pull her up . 
She arose and followed him , with the unquestioning docility of a little child . 
He had left Mrs. Wilson at the dwelling of a friend of his , who had offered him a room for the old woman and Mary : a room which had frequently been his , on his occasional visits to Liverpool , but which he was thankful now to have obtained for them , as his own sleeping-place was a matter of indifference to him , and the town appeared crowded and disorderly , on the eve of the Assizes . 
Mary and Will Wilson had not yet arrived , being , as you know , far away on the broad sea ; but of this Job of course knew nothing , and he did not as yet feel much anxiety about their non-appearance ; he was more curious to know the result of Mr. Bridgenorth 's interview that morning with Jem . 
`` I wish Mary Barton would come , '' said Job , anxiously . 
`` She and Will are a long time about it . '' 
He sat on the edge of his chair , the more readily to start up when Will and Mary should appear . 
Mary -LRB- tossing about in the little boat on the broad river -RRB- did not come , nor did Will . 
The gloom which had overspread the sky , and the influence of which had been felt by Mary on the open water , was yet more perceptible in the dark , dull street . 
The old man considered for a minute as he lingered at the door , and then bent his steps towards Mrs. Jones 's , where he knew -LRB- from reference to queer , odd , heterogeneous memoranda , in an ancient black-leather pocket-book -RRB- that Will lodged , and where he doubted not he should hear both of him and of Mary . 
Then he inquired how he could best find Mary . 
I 'm uneasy about Mary , too , -- very . 
She 's a stranger in Liverpool . '' 
`` So she told me , '' said Charley . 
It 's a pity she 's no one to meet her when she lands . '' 
`` As for that , '' replied Job , `` I do n't see how any one could meet her when we ca n't tell where she would come to . 
I must trust to her coming right . 
She 's getten spirit and sense . 
She 'll most likely be for coming here again . 
Indeed , I do n't know what else she can do , for she knows no other place in Liverpool . 
But Mary never came . 
`` Will has sailed this morning for sure , but that brave wench , Mary Barton , is after him , and will bring him back , I 'll be bound , if she can but get speech on him . 
She 's not back yet . 
I 'll step down again and find Mary . 
She 'll be back by this time . 
mind thou com ` st straight off to me , and bring Mary as soon as thou ` st lit on her . '' 
He went first to Mr. Bridgenorth 's , where it had struck him that Will and Mary might be all this time waiting for him . 
`` Yon Mary Barton has getten into some scrape or another , '' said he , addressing himself to Job . 
`` She 's not to be heard of at any of the piers ; and Bourne says it were a boat from the Cheshire side as she went aboard of . 
So there 's no hearing of her till to-morrow morning . '' 
`` To-morrow morning she 'll have to be in court , at nine o'clock , to bear witness on a trial , '' said Job , sorrowfully . 
`` So she said ; at least somewhat of the kind , '' said Charley , looking desirous to hear more . 
It would happen give her sleep , and she wo n't have sleep for many and a many a night -LRB- not to call sleep -RRB- , if things goes wrong to-morrow . 
`` And Mary ? 
Thou ` st found her at Mrs. Jones 's , Job ? '' 
`` Yes she was there , safe enough , second time of going . 
Is she here ? 
Why does not she come to bed ? 
I 'm sure she 's need . '' 
Job coughed away his remains of conscience , and made answer , `` She was a bit weary , and o'er done with her sail ; and Mrs. Jones axed her to stay there all night . 
And now , where was Mary ? 
How Job 's heart would have been relieved of one of its cares if he could have seen her : for he was in a miserable state of anxiety about her ; and many and many a time through that long night , he scolded her and himself ; her for her obstinacy , and himself for his weakness in yielding to her obstinacy , when she insisted on being the one to follow and find out Will . 
She did not pass that night in bed , any more than Job ; but she was under a respectable roof , and among kind , though rough people . 
She had offered no resistance to the old boatman , when he had clutched her arm , in order to insure her following him , as he threaded the crowded dock-ways , and dived up strange by-streets . 
She came on meekly after him , scarcely thinking in her stupor where she was going , and glad -LRB- in a dead , heavy way -RRB- that some one was deciding things for her . 
He led her to an old-fashioned house , almost as small as house could be , which had been built long ago , before all the other part of the street , and had a country-town look about it in the middle of that bustling back street . 
He pulled her into the house-place ; and relieved to a certain degree of his fear of losing her on the way , he exclaimed , `` There ! '' 
giving a great slap of one hand on her back . 
The room was light and bright , and roused Mary -LRB- perhaps the slap on her back might help a little , too -RRB- . 
and she felt the awkwardness of accounting for her presence to a little bustling old woman who had been moving about the fire-place on her entrance . 
The boatman took it very quietly , never deigning to give any explanation , but sitting down in his own particular chair , and chewing tobacco , while he looked at Mary with the most satisfied air imaginable , half triumphantly , as if she were the captive of his bow and spear , and half defying , as if daring her to escape . 
She threw it straight over Mary ; but though it caused a great sob , the eyes still remained closed , and the face as pale as ashes . 
said she , bending over Mary , so as to accommodate the drooping head . 
exclaimed she , as he produced a square bottle of smuggled spirits , labelled `` Golden Wasser , '' from a corner cupboard in their little room . 
said she , as the dose he poured into Mary 's open mouth , made her start and cough . 
snarled he , as he was relieved by Mary 's returning colour , and opened eyes , and wondering , sensible gaze , `` Not a bit ! 
His wife helped Mary to rise , and placed her in a chair . 
I 'm sure , sir , I do n't know rightly how to thank you , '' faltered Mary , softly forth . 
Mary watched the boatman leave the house , and then , turning her sorrowful eyes to the face of her hostess , she attempted feebly to rise , with the intention of going away , -- where she knew not . 
Perhaps '' -LRB- sinking her voice a little -RRB- `` thou ` rt a bad one ; I almost misdoubt thee , thou ` rt so pretty . 
Mary had listened feebly to this soliloquy , and now tried to satisfy her hostess , in weak , broken sentences . 
She fell to sobbing at the thought of her waning hopes , and the old woman tried to comfort her , beginning with her accustomed , `` Well-a-well ! 
I 'm sore afraid he wo n't , '' cried Mary , consoled , nevertheless , by the woman 's assertions , all groundless as she knew them to be . 
Still talking half to herself , and half to Mary , the old woman prepared tea , and urged her visitor to eat and refresh herself . 
But Mary shook her head at the proffered food , and only drank a cup of tea with thirsty eagerness . 
For the spirits had thrown her into a burning heat , and rendered each impression received through her senses of the most painful distinctness and intensity while her head ached in a terrible manner . 
She disliked speaking , her power over her words seemed so utterly gone . 
She used quite different expressions to those she intended . 
So she kept silent , while Mrs. Sturgis -LRB- for that was the name of her hostess -RRB- talked away , and put her tea-things by , and moved about incessantly , in a manner that increased the dizziness in Mary 's head . 
She felt as if she ought to take leave for the night , and go . 
Mary attributed this to his finding her still there , and gathered up her strength for an effort to leave the house . 
But she was mistaken . 
answered Mary . 
Mary did not answer , but trembled all over . 
Mary went up-stairs murmuring thanks and blessings on those who took the stranger in . 
But she brushed the drops away with the back of her hand ; and in a cheerful tone , went on to assure Mary the bed was well aired . 
I will sit here , if you please , '' said Mary , sinking down on the window-seat . 
`` Let me stay up a little , '' pleaded Mary , as her hostess seemed so resolute about seeing her to bed . 
Her looks won her suit . 
And quietly , noiselessly , Mary watched the unchanging weather-cock through the night . 
She sat on the little window-seat , her hand holding back the curtain which shaded the room from the bright moonlight without ; her head resting its weariness against the corner of the window-frame ; her eyes burning , and stiff with the intensity of her gaze . 
Indeed he had not been much in her company , for he had risen up early to go out once more to make inquiry for Mary ; and when he could hear nothing of her , he had desperately resolved not to undeceive Mrs. Wilson , as sorrow never came too late ; and if the blow were inevitable , it would be better to leave her in ignorance of the impending evil as long as possible . 
Job turned the letter over and over when he had read it ; sighed deeply ; and then wrapping it carefully up in a bit of newspaper he had about him , he put it in his waistcoat pocket , and went off to the door of the witness-room to ask if Mary Barton was there . 
As the door opened he saw her sitting within , against a table on which her folded arms were resting , and her head was hidden within them . 
Sorrowfully did Job return into the body of the court ; neither Mrs. Wilson nor Mary having seen him as he had stood at the witness-room door . 
Although but one answer was expected , -- was customary in all cases , -- there was a pause of dead silence , an interval of solemnity even in this hackneyed part of the procoeding ; while the prisoner at the bar stood with compressed lips , looking at the judge with his outward eyes , but with far other and different scenes presented to his mental vision ; a sort of rapid recapitulation of his life , -- remembrances of his childhood , -- his father -LRB- so proud of him , his first-born child -RRB- , -- his sweet little playfellow , Mary , -- his hopes , his love , -- his despair , yet still , yet ever and ever , his love , -- the blank , wide world it had been without her love , -- his mother , -- his childless mother , -- but not long to be so , -- not long to be away from all she loved , -- nor during that time to be oppressed with doubt as to his innocence , sure and secure of her darling 's heart ; -- he started from his instant 's pause , and said in a low firm voice , `` Not guilty , my lord . '' 
The clue to this had been furnished by the policeman , who had overheard Jem 's angry language to Mr. Carson ; and his report in the first instance had occasioned the subpoena to Mary . 
And now she was to be called on to bear witness , The court was by this time almost as full as it could hold ; but fresh attempts were being made to squeeze in at all the entrances , for many were anxious to see and hear this part of the trial . 
So , for an instant , a look of indignation contracted Mary 's brow , as she steadily met the eyes of the impertinent counsellor . 
But , in that instant , she saw the hands removed from a face beyond , behind ; and a countenance revealed of such intense love and woe , -- such a deprecating dread of her answer ; and suddenly her resolution was taken . 
The present was every thing ; the future , that vast shroud , it was maddening to think upon ; but now she might own her fault , but now she might even own her love . 
Now , when the beloved stood thus , abhorred of men , there would be no feminine shame to stand between her and her avowal . 
So she also turned towards the judge , partly to mark that her answer was not given to the monkeyfied man who questioned her , and likewise that her face might be averted from , and her eyes not gaze upon , the form that contracted with the dread of the words he anticipated . 
I never found out how dearly I loved another till one day , when James Wilson asked me to marry him , and I was very hard and sharp in my answer -LRB- for , indeed , sir , I 'd a deal to bear just then -RRB- , and he took me at my word and left me ; and from that day to this I 've never spoken a word to him , or set eyes on him ; though I 'd fain have done so , to try and show him we had both been too hasty ; for he had not been gone out of my sight above a minute before I knew I loved -- far above my life , '' said she , dropping her voice as she came to this second confession of the strength of her attachment . 
She covered her face with her hands , to hide the burning scarlet blushes , which even dyed her fingers . 
There was a little pause ; still , though her speech might inspire pity for the prisoner , it only strengthened the supposition of his guilt . 
I never did , '' said she , in so firm and distinct a manner as to leave no doubt . 
For she felt the sense , the composure , the very bodily strength which she had compelled to her aid for a time , suddenly giving way , and was conscious that she was losing all command over herself . 
There was no occasion to detain her longer ; she had done her part . 
She might go down . 
Who would have taken charge of Mary , on her release from the witness-box I do not know , if Mrs. Sturgis , the boatman 's wife , had not been there , brought by her interest in Mary , towards whom she now pressed , in order to urge her to leave the scene of the trial . 
said Mary , to this proposition . 
I do n't know about any thing but that I must stay , '' replied Mary , in a strange hurried manner , catching hold of some rails as if she feared some bodily force would be employed to remove her . 
Mary never let go her clutched hold on the rails . 
She wanted them to steady her , in that heaving , whirling court . 
She thought the feeling of something hard compressed within her hand would help her to listen , for it was such pain , such weary pain in her head , to strive to attend to what was being said . 
They were all at sea , sailing away on billowy waves , and every one speaking at once , and no one heeding her father , who was calling on them to be silent , and listen to him . 
Then again , for a brief second , the court stood still , and she could see the judge , sitting up there like an idol , with his trappings , so rigid and stiff ; and Jem , opposite , looking at her , as if to say , am I to die for what you know your -- . 
Then she checked herself , and by a great struggle brought herself round to an instant 's sanity . 
But the round of thought never stood still ; and off she went again ; and every time her power of struggling against the growing delirium grew fainter and fainter . 
She muttered low to herself , but no one heard her except her neighbour , Mrs. Sturgis ; all were too closely attending to the case for the prosecution , which was now being wound up . 
The attorney had far more interest in the case than the barrister , to which he was perhaps excited by his poor old friend Job Legh ; who had edged and wedged himself through the crowd close to Mr. Bridgenorth 's elbow , sent thither by Ben Sturgis , to whom he had been `` introduced '' by Charley Jones , and who had accounted for Mary 's disappearance on the preceding day , and spoken of their chase , their fears , their hopes . 
Job Legh looked about for Mary , now he had gained , and given , some idea of the position of things . 
At last he saw her , standing by a decent-looking woman , looking flushed and anxious , and moving her lips incessantly , as if eagerly talking ; her eyes never resting on any object , but wandering about as if in search of something . 
As for Job Legh , his feelings were all but uncontrollable ; as you may judge , by the indifference with which he saw Mary borne , stiff and convulsed , out of the court , in the charge of the kind Mrs. Sturgis , who , you will remember , was an utter stranger to him . 
During the commotion in the court , among all the cries and commands , the dismay and the directions , consequent upon Will 's entrance , and poor Mary 's fearful attack of illness , Mr. Bridgenorth had kept his lawyer-like presence of mind ; and long before Job Legh 's almost illegible note was poked at him , he had recapitulated the facts on which Will had to give evidence , and the manner in which he had been pursued , after his ship had taken her leave of the land . 
He had assumed his place at the bar with little or no expectation of an acquittal ; and with scarcely any desire for life , in the complication of occurrences tending to strengthen the idea of Mary 's more than indifference to him ; she had loved another , and in her mind Jem believed that he himself must be regarded as the murderer of him she loved . 
And suddenly , athwart this gloom which made Life seem such a blank expanse of desolation , there flashed the exquisite delight of hearing Mary 's avowal of love , making the future all glorious , if a future in this world he might hope to have . 
He could not dwell on any thing but her words , telling of her passionate love ; all else was indistinct , nor could he strive to make it otherwise . 
She loved him . 
He tried to think that the knowledge of her love would soothe him even in his dying hours ; but the phantoms of what life with her might be , would obtrude , and made him almost gasp and reel under the uncertainty he was enduring . 
Although many looked on him with suspicion , faithful friends closed round him ; his arm was unresistingly pumped up and down by his cousin and Job ; when one was tired , the other took up the wholesome exercise , while Ben Sturgis was working off his interest in the scene by scolding Charley for walking on his head round and round Mary 's sweetheart , for a sweetheart he was now satisfactorily ascertained to be , in spite of her assertion to the contrary . 
Long ago -LRB- reckoning time by events and thoughts , and not by clock or dial-plate -RRB- , Jem had felt certain that Mary 's father was Harry Carson 's murderer ; and although the motive was in some measure a mystery , yet a whole train of circumstances -LRB- the principal of which was that John Barton had borrowed the fatal gun only two days before -RRB- had left no doubt in Jem 's mind . 
But if he had felt himself pledged to preserve this secret , even when his own life was the probable penalty , and he believed he should fall execrated by Mary as the guilty destroyer of her lover , how much more was he bound now to labour to prevent any word of her 's from inculpating her father , now that she was his own ; now that she had braved so much to rescue him ; and now that her poor brain had lost all guiding and controlling power over her words . 
In the little bed-room where Mrs. Sturgis alternately tended Mary , and wept over the violence of her illness , he listened to her ravings ; each sentence of which had its own peculiar meaning and reference , intelligible to his mind , till her words rose to the wild pitch of agony , that no one could alleviate , and he could bear it no longer , and stole , sick , and miserable down stairs , where Ben Sturgis thought it his duty to snore away in an armchair instead of his bed , under the idea that he should thus be more ready for active service , such as fetching the doctor to revisit his patient . 
said Job , pushing past him , for all this time Jem had stood holding the door , unwilling to admit Job where he might hear so much that would be suggestive to one acquainted with the parties that Mary named . 
So I thought I 'd just come and stay with Mary Barton , and see as she 's well done to , and you and your mother and Will go and take leave of old Alice . '' 
For thou see ` st she ca n't rightly understand why thou ` rt with Mary , and not with her . 
Never fear for Mary ! 
She 's young and will struggle through . 
They are decent people , these folk she is with , and I 'll watch o'er her , as though she was my own poor girl , that lies cold enough in London-town . 
I grant ye , it 's hard enough for her to be left among strangers . 
What if Mary should implicate her father ? 
Now you take your mother home , Jem , and stay by her till old Alice is gone , and trust me for seeing after Mary . '' 
Jem felt how right Job was , and could not resist what he knew to be his duty , but I can not tell you how heavy and sick at heart he was as he stood at the door to take a last , fond , lingering look at Mary ; he saw her sitting up in bed , her golden hair , dimmed with her one day 's illness , floating behind her , her head bound round with wetted cloths , her features all agitated , even to distortion , with the pangs of her anxiety . 
Her lover 's eyes filled with tears . 
What if she died , just when he knew the treasure , the untold treasure he possessed in her love ! 
What if -LRB- worse than death -RRB- she remained a poor gibbering maniac all her life long -LRB- and mad people do live to be old sometimes , even under all the pressure of their burden -RRB- , terror-distracted as she was now ; and no one able to comfort her ! 
`` Thou must trust in God , and leave her in His hands . '' 
He found his mother -LRB- notwithstanding that she had but just regained her child through Mary 's instrumentality -RRB- half inclined to resent his having passed the night in anxious devotion to the poor invalid . 
From that time , Jem became aware that his mother was jealously watching for some word or sign which should betoken his wish to return to Mary . 
If Mary died , he would announce it personally ; if she recovered , he meant to bring her home with him . 
The consequence of this want of intelligence as to Mary 's state was , that Jem was constantly anticipating that every person and every scrap of paper was to convey to him the news of her death . 
`` I 'm sure he likes nothing better than watching over poor Mary ; he loves her nearly as well as me . 
I have been so full of poor Alice , I 've never thought of it before ; I ca n't do so much as many a one , but Mary will like to have a woman about her that she knows . 
I can rest neither by night nor day for thinking on Mary . 
Whether she lives or dies I look on her as my wife before God , as surely and solemnly as if we were married . 
So being , I have the greatest right to look after her , and I can not yield it even to -- '' `` Her father , '' said Margaret , finishing his interrupted sentence . 
No one seems to know where John Barton is , else I thought of getting Morris to write him a letter telling him about Mary . 
`` Mary 's not bad off for friends where she is , '' said he . 
She 's like a mother to Mary in her ways ; and he bears a good character , as far as I could learn just in that hurry . 
If she takes it very badly , I 'll come back tomorrow night ; but if she 's not against it very much , I mean to stay till it 's settled about Mary , one way or the other . 
`` If you can just step up to our house to-night , Jem , I 'll put up a few things as may be useful to Mary , and then you can say when you 'll likely be back . 
I am going back to Liverpool to-morrow morning to see how Mary Barton is . '' 
`` And what 's Mary Barton to thee , that thou shouldst be running after her in that-a-way ? '' 
`` If she lives , she shall be my wedded wife . 
If she dies -- mother , I ca n't speak of what I shall feel if she dies . '' 
I can love you as dearly as ever , and Mary too , as much as man ever loved woman . '' 
And may He bless Mary Barton for thy sake . '' 
Jem 's heart leaped up , and from this time hope took the place of fear in his anticipations with regard to Mary . 
you show your own true self to Mary , and she 'll love you as dearly as I do . '' 
You 'll date your start in life as Mary 's acknowledged lover from poor Alice Wilson 's burial day . 
`` I 'm not , Jem ; not now , at least ; only you seemed so full about Mary . '' 
For a minute or two Jem stood motionless , stunned by the thoughts which the sight of Mary 's father had called up . 
Must he be told of Mary 's state ? 
He could not be informed of her illness without many other particulars being communicated at the same time , of which it were better he should be kept in ignorance ; indeed , of which Mary herself could alone give the full explanation . 
It was true that he was Mary 's father , and as such had every right to be told of all concerning her ; but supposing he were , and that he followed the impulse so natural to a father , and wished to go to her , what might be the consequences ? 
Among the mingled feelings she had revealed in her delirium , aye , mingled even with the most tender expressions of love for her father , was a sort of horror of him ; a dread of him as a blood-shedder , which seemed to separate him into two persons , -- one , the father who had dandled her on his knee , and loved her all her life long ; the other , the assassin , the cause of all her trouble and woe . 
If he presented himself before her while this idea of his character was uppermost , who might tell the consequence ? 
Jem could not , and would not , expose her to any such fearful chance : and to tell the truth , I believe he looked upon her as more his own , to guard from all shadow of injury with most loving care , than as belonging to any one else in this world , though girt with the reverend name of Father , and guiltless of aught that might have lessened such reverence . 
Mary still hovered between life and death when Jem arrived at the house where she lay ; and the doctors were as yet unwilling to compromise their wisdom by allowing too much hope to be entertained . 
But the state of things , if not less anxious , was less distressing than when Jem had quitted her . 
She lay now in a stupor , which was partly disease , and partly exhaustion after the previous excitement . 
From that time forward , Mary 's progress towards health was rapid . 
There was every reason , but one , in favour of her speedy removal home . 
I said every reason `` but one '' inclined Jem to hasten Mary 's return as soon as she was sufficiently convalescent . 
That one was the meeting which awaited her at home . 
He could compel himself to any line of conduct that his reason and his sense of right told him to be desirable ; but they did not tell him it was desirable to speak to Mary , in her tender state of mind and body , of her father . 
Speak it as calmly , and as indifferently as he might , he could not avoid expressing some consciousness of the terrible knowledge she possessed . 
She , for her part , was softer and gentler than she had even been in her gentlest mood ; since her illness , her motions , her glances , her voice were all tender in their languor . 
It seemed almost a trouble to her to break the silence with the low sounds of her own sweet voice , and her words fell sparingly on Jem 's greedy , listening ear . 
Her face was , however , so full of love and confidence , that Jem felt no uneasiness at the state of silent abstraction into which she often fell . 
If she did but love him , all would yet go right ; and it was better not to press for confidence on that one subject which must be painful to both . 
And Mary tottered once more out into the open air , leaning on Jem 's arm , and close to his beating heart . 
Mary shuddered . 
Jem led her homewards . 
She drooped her head as searching for something on the ground . 
She paused for an instant . 
She spoke in a feeble voice ; not at all impatiently , as the written words would seem to intimate , but in a mournful way , as if anticipating sorrow even in the very fulfilment of her wishes . 
There are things we must not speak on '' -LRB- lowering her voice -RRB- , but `` you 'll be really kind if you 'll not speak against my going home . 
`` Not alone , Mary ! '' 
Then again he felt as if she were the best judge , and knowing all -LRB- perhaps more than even he did -RRB- , might be forming plans which his interference would mar. . 
At last a day , fine enough for Mary to travel on , arrived . 
She had wished to go , but now her courage failed her . 
How could she have said she was weary of that quiet house , where even Ben Sturgis ' grumblings only made a kind of harmonious bass in the concord between him and his wife , so thoroughly did they know each other with the knowledge of many years ! 
Ben bustled about with the square bottle of Golden-wasser in one of his hands , and a small tumbler in the other ; he went to Mary , Jem , and his wife in succession , pouring out a glass for each , and bidding them drink it to keep their spirits up : but as each severally refused ; he drank it himself ; and passed on to offer the same hospitality to another with the like refusal , and the like result . 
It was he , who in a firm commanding voice at last told Jem and Mary to be off , or they would be too late . 
When they reached Manchester , Mary looked very white , and the expression of her face was almost stern . 
She was in fact summoning up her resolution to meet her father if he were at home . 
Jem had never named his midnight glimpse of John Barton to human being ; but Mary had a sort of presentiment , that wander where he would , he would seek his home at last . 
But in what mood she dreaded to think . 
For the knowledge of her father 's capability of guilt seemed to have opened a dark gulf in her character , into the depths of which she trembled to look . 
AT one moment she would fain have claimed protection against the life she must lead , for some time at least , alone with a murderer ! 
She thought of his gloom , before his mind was haunted by the memory of so terrible a crime ; his moody irritable ways . 
She imagined the evenings as of old : she , toiling at some work , long after houses were shut , and folks abed ; he , more savage than he had ever been before with the inward gnawing of his remorse . 
At such times she could have cried aloud with terror , at the scenes her fancy conjured up . 
But her filial duty , nay , her love and gratitude for many deeds of kindness done to her as a little child , conquered all fear . 
She would endure all imaginable terrors , although of daily occurrence . 
And she would patiently bear all wayward violence of temper ; more than patiently would she bear it -- pitifully , as one who knew of some awful curse awaiting the bloodshedder . 
She would watch over him tenderly , as the Innocent should watch over the Guilty ; awaiting the gracious seasons , wherein to pour oil and balm into the bitter wounds . 
With the untroubled peace which the resolve to endure to the end gives , she approached the house that from habit she still called home , but which possessed the holiness of home no longer . 
said she , as they stood at the entrance to the court , close by Job Legh 's door , `` You must go in there and wait half-an-hour . 
She sighed heavily . 
`` Mary ! 
Mary ! 
I know why you bid me keep away , but -- '' She put her hand on his arm , as he spoke in a loud agitated tone ; she looked into his face with upbraiding love in her eyes , and then she said , while her lips quivered , and he felt her whole frame trembling : `` Dear Jem ! 
Jem , you promised -- '' And so saying she left him . 
She went quicker than she would otherwise have passed over those few yards of ground , for fear he should still try to accompany her . 
Her hand was on the latch , and in a breath the door was opened . 
There sat her father , still and motionless -- not even turning his head to see who had entered ; but perhaps he recognised the foot-step , -- the trick of action . 
The house was bare as when Mary had left it , of coal , or of candle , of food , or of blessing in any shape . 
She came quickly home ; but as she passed Job Legh 's door , she stopped . 
Doubtless Jem had long since gone ; and doubtless , too , he had given Margaret some good reason for not intruding upon her friend for this night at least , otherwise Mary would have seen her before now . 
But to-morrow , -- would she not come in to-morrow ? 
`` It 's Mary Barton ! 
I know her by her breathing ! 
Grandfather , it 's Mary Barton ! '' 
Margaret 's joy at meeting her , the open demonstration of her love , affected Mary much ; she could not keep from crying , and sat down weak and agitated on the first chair she could find . 
`` Ay , ay , Mary ! 
For Mary had sickened at the mention of that name ; yet she felt that now or never was the time to speak . 
she said , `` but he 's very poorly ; I never saw him as he is now , before . 
She spoke hastily , and -LRB- to her own idea -RRB- in an unnatural manner . 
But they did not seem to notice it , nor to take the hint she had thrown out of company being unacceptable ; for Job Legh directly put down some insect , which he was impaling on a corking-pin , and exclaimed , `` Thy father come home ! 
Do n't come ; not but that you 're very kind and good ; but to-night -- indeed , '' said she , at last , in despair , seeing Job still persevere in putting away his things ; `` you must not come till I send or come for you . 
For Job was muttering away in high dudgeon , and even Margaret 's tone was altered as she wished Mary good night . 
At night he feebly clambered up stairs to bed ; and during those long dark hours Mary heard those groans of agony , which never escaped his lips by day ; when they were compressed in silence over his inward woe . 
Many a time she sat up listening , and wondering if it would ease his miserable heart if she went to him , and told him she knew all , and loved and pitied him more than words could tell . 
And now they contented themselves with a kind inquiry when they saw Mary in her goings-out or in her comings-in . 
With her oppressing knowledge , she imagined their reserved conduct stranger than it was in reality . 
She missed Job and Margaret too ; who , in all former times of sorrow or anxiety since their acquaintance first began , had been ready with their sympathy . 
They received her with every effort of cordiality ; but still there was a cobweb-veil of separation between them , to which Mary was morbidly acute . 
The trust was shown by his respectful silence on that one point of reserve on which she had inderdicted conversation . 
He left Job Legh 's house when she did . 
They lingered on the step ; he holding her hand between both of his , as loth to let her go , he questioned her as to when he should see her again . 
`` I can not tell , '' replied she , softly . 
The next day , the fourth from Mary 's return home , as she was sitting near the window , sadly dreaming over some work , she caught a glimpse of the last person she wished to see -- of Sally Leadbitter ! 
Mary knew that if she delayed answering the knock , Sally would not scruple to enter ; so as hastily as if the visit had been desired , she opened the door , and stood there with the latch in her hand , barring up all entrance , and as much as possible obstructing all curious glances into the interior . 
`` Well , Mary Barton ! 
She was bent on coming in , and saw Mary 's preventive design . 
So she stood on tip-toe , looking over Mary 's shoulders into the room where she suspected a lover to be lurking ; but instead , she saw only the figure of the stern gloomy father she had always been in the habit of avoiding ; and she dropped down again , content to carry on the conversation where Mary chose , and as Mary chose , in whispers . 
You ca n't hide it now , Mary , for it 's all in print . '' 
Mary gave a low moan , -- and then implored Sally to change the subject ; for unpleasant as it always was , it was doubly unpleasant in the manner in which she was treating it . 
If they had been alone , Mary would have borne it patiently , -- or she thought , -- but now she felt almost certain her father was listening ; there was a subdued breathing , a slight bracing-up of the listless attitude . 
But there was no arresting Sally 's curiosity to hear all she could respecting the adventures Mary had experienced . 
She , in common with the rest of Miss Simmonds ' young ladies , was almost jealous of the fame that Mary had obtained ; to herself , such miserable notoriety . 
`` You 've set up heroine on your own account , Mary Barton . 
Now did ` nt you , Mary ? 
asked she , reproachfully . 
Cast down as Mary was , she could hardly keep from smiling at the idea , so wildly incongruous with the scene she had really undergone , of looking out for admirers during a trial for murder . 
And even if I could , '' she stopped , and blushed . 
cried Mary . 
But Mary 's thoughts were with Jem . 
How good he had been never to name his dismissal to her . 
How much he had had to endure for her sake ! 
`` Tell me all about it , '' she gasped out . 
`` Why , you see they 've always swords quite handy at them plays , '' began Sally ; but Mary , with an impatient shake of her head , interrupted , `` About Jem , -- about Jem , I want to know . '' 
`` I must go to him , I must go to him , '' repeated Mary , in a hurried manner . 
Mary shut the door , and turned into the house . 
Her father sat in the same attitude ; the old unchanging attitude . 
She put on her bonnet to go to Ancoats ; for see , and question , and comfort , and worship Jem , she must . 
As she hung about her father for an instant before leaving him , he spoke -- voluntarily spoke for the first time since her return ; but his head was drooping so low she could not hear what he said , so she stooped down ; and after a moment 's pause , he repeated the words . 
Could he have overheard her conversation with Sally Leadbitter ? 
They had whispered low , she thought . 
Pondering on this , and many other things , she reached Ancoats . 
As Mary was turning into the street where the Wilson 's lived , Jem overtook her . 
He came upon her suddenly , and she started . 
he asked , tenderly , placing her arm within his , and slackening his pace . 
She felt rightly that he would guess the meaning of her only half expressed inquiry . 
He hesitated a moment before he answered her . 
said Mary , with mournful indignation . 
But Mary could only shake her head in a mournful way , and repeat her words , `` They might have known thee better , Jem . '' 
After a minute or two , he asked , `` Mary , art thou much bound to Manchester ? 
she asked , in a quiet , glancing way . 
-- Thou knowest where Canada is , Mary ? '' 
`` Not rightly -- not now , at any rate ; -- but with thee , Jem , '' her voice sunk to a soft , low whisper , `` anywhere -- '' What was the use of a geographical description . 
said Mary , suddenly breaking that delicious silence with the one sharp discord in her present life . 
She looked up at her lover 's grave face ; and then the message her father had sent flashed across her memory . 
I 's no use troubling ourselves to guess , '' he continued , after a pause for a few minutes , during which they slowly and silently paced up and down the by-street , into which he had led her when their conversation began . 
`` Come and see mother , and then I 'll take thee home , Mary . 
Thou wert all in a tremble when first I came up to thee ; thou ` rt not fit to be trusted home by thyself , '' said he , with fond exaggeration of her helpnessness . 
`` Come and speak to mother ; she knows you 're to be her daughter , Mary , darling . '' 
The door opened , and he came in ; his face brightening into proud smiles , Mary Barton hanging on his arm , blushing and dimpling , with eye-lids veiling the happy light of her eyes , -- there was around the young couple a radiant atmosphere -- a glory of happiness . 
Only for one moment did she remember her sense of injury , -- her wasted trouble , -- and then , her whole woman 's heart heaving with motherly love and sympathy , she opened her arms , and received Mary into them , as shedding tears of agitated joy , she murmured in her ear , `` Bless thee , Mary , bless thee ! 
But Mary saw all at a glance . 
Her eye , accustomed to what was usual in the aspect of the room , saw instantly what was unusual , -- saw , and understood it all . 
Her father was standing behind his habitual chair ; holding by the back of it as if for support . 
Behind her father sat Job Legh , his head in his hands , and resting his elbows on the little family table , -- listening evidently ; but as evidently deeply affected by what he heard . 
Mary and Jem stood at the half-open door , not daring to stir ; hardly to breathe . 
Mary rushed to him . 
It seemed as if till then he had been unaware of her presence . 
Thou ` lt love Mary , though she is my child . '' 
said Mary , springing forward , and catching hold of Mr. Carson 's arm , `` my father is dying . 
John himself stood up , stiff and rigid , and replied , `` Mary , wench ! 
Mary and Jem together waited the approach of death ; but as the final struggle drew on , and morning dawned , Jem suggested some alleviation to the gasping breath , to purchase which he left the house in search of a druggist 's shop , which should be open at that early hour . 
During his absence , Barton grew worse ; he had fallen across the bed , and his breathing seemed almost stopped ; in vain did Mary strive to raise him , her sorrow and exhaustion had rendered her too weak . 
So , on hearing some one enter the house-place below , she cried out for Jem to come to her assistance . 
`` Pray for us , '' said Mary , sinking on her knees , and forgetting in that solemn hour all that had divided her father and Mr. Carson . 
Mary knew nothing more for many minutes . 
When she recovered consciousness , she found herself supported by Jem on the `` settle '' in the house-place . 
Although Mary had hardly been conscious of her thoughts , and it had been more like a secret instinct informing her soul , than the result of any process of reasoning , she had felt for some time -LRB- ever since her return from Liverpool , in fact -RRB- , that for her father there was but one thing to be desired and anticipated , and that was death ! 
She had seen that Conscience had given the mortal wound to his earthly frame ; she did not dare to question of the infinite mercy of God , what the Future Life would be to him . 
Though at first desolate and stunned by the blow which had fallen on herself , she was resigned and submissive as soon as she recovered strength enough to ponder and consider a little ; and you may be sure that no tenderness or love was wanting on Jem 's part , and no consideration and sympathy on that of Job and Margaret , to soothe and comfort the girl who now stood alone in the world as far as blood-relations were concerned . 
Many of the difficulties to be anticipated in preserving the secret would be obviated , if he could induce his mother to fall into the plan he had named to Mary of emigrating to Canada . 
With his mother 's irritable temper he could hardly expect that all allusion to the crime of John Barton would be for ever restrained from passing her lips , and he knew the deep trial which such references would be to Mary . 
To think of two grown-up folk like you and Mary , not knowing death could never come easy to a person lying on a pillow with pigeons ' feathers in ! '' 
I could live it down if I stayed in England ; but then what would not Mary have to bear ? 
Sooner or later the truth would out ; and then she would be a show to folk for many a day as John Barton 's daughter . 
And with his path growing clearer and clearer before him the longer he contemplated it , he went to see Mary , and if he judged it fit , to tell her what he had decided upon . 
So he hardly stayed to kiss poor Mary 's sweet woe-begone face , but tore himself away from his darling to go to the old man , who awaited him impatiently . 
As she gently opened the door , Mary sitting idly by the fire , caught a glimpse of her , -- of Jem 's mother , -- of the early friend of her dead parents , -- of the kind minister to many a little want in days of childhood , -- and rose and came and fell about her neck , with many a sob and moan , saying , `` Oh , he 's gone -- he 's dead -- all gone -- all dead , and I am left alone ! '' 
nay , Mary , dear , think on me ! 
Jem shall not love thee better in his way , than I will in mine ; and thou ` lt bear with my turns , Mary , knowing that in my soul God sees the love that shall ever be thine , if thou ` lt take me for thy mother , and speak no more of being alone . '' 
From that time forward , hardly a passing cloud dimmed the happy confidence of their intercourse ; even by Jem would his mother 's temper sooner be irritated than by Mary ; before the latter she repressed her occasional nervous ill-humour till the habit of indulging it was perceptibly decreased . 
It was Mary herself who had told all . 
For on the morning to which this chapter principally relates , as Mary sat weeping , and as Mrs. Wilson comforted her by every tenderest word and caress , she revealed to the dismayed , and astonished Jane , the sting of her deep sorrow ; the crime which stained her dead father 's memory . 
Her weak and ailing frame imparted its irritation to her conduct in small things , and daily trifles ; but she had deep and noble sympathy with great sorrows , and even at the time that Mary spoke she allowed no expression of surprise or horror to escape her lips . 
She gave way to no curiosity as to the untold details ; she was as secret and trustworthy as her son himself ; and if in years to come her anger was occasionally excited against Mary , and she , on rare occasions , yielded to ill-temper against her daughter-in-law , she would upbraid her for extravagance , or stinginess , or over-dressing , or under-dressing , or too much mirth , or too much gloom , but never , never in her most uncontrolled moments , did she allude to any one of the circumstances relating to Mary 's flirtation with Harry Carson , or his murderer ; and always when she spoke of John Barton , named him with the respect due to his conduct before the last , miserable , guilty month of his life . 
From the day when he learnt -LRB- not without remorse -RRB- what hidden depths of self-restraint she had in her soul , his manner to her , always tender and respectful , became reverential ; and it was more than ever a loving strife between him and Mary , which should most contribute towards the happiness of the declining years of their mother . 
Jem 's face became very red at the allusion he made to Mary , but his honest , fearless eyes had met Mr. Carson 's penetrating gaze unflinchingly , and had carried conviction of his innocence and truthfulness ; Mr. Carson felt certain that he had heard all that Jem could tell . 
And till I heard what John Barton had to say yon night , I could not have seen what reason he had for doing it ; while in the case of Jem , any one who looked at Mary Barton might have seen a cause for jealousy clear enough . '' 
`` Then you believe that Barton had no knowledge of my son 's unfortunate , -- '' he looked at Jem , `` of his attentions to Mary Barton . 
`` The person who told me , said clearly she neither had , nor would tell Mary 's father , '' interposed Jem . 
It was to take place almost immediately : yet much remained to be done ; many domestic preparations were to be made ; and one great obstacle , anticipated by both Jem and Mary , to be removed . 
said Mary to him , one evening as they sat in the twilight , talking together in low happy voices till Margaret should come to keep Mary company through the night , `` Jem ! 
She blushed for shame at the remembrance of her folly , and hid her head on his shoulder while he made answer . 
Mary said all this in so open and innocent a manner , that Jem felt sure she knew not the truth respecting Esther , and he half hesitated to tell her . 
And she told him of Esther 's midnight visit , concluding with , `` We must go and see her before we leave , though I do n't rightly know where to find her . '' 
`` Dearest Mary , -- '' `` What , Jem ! '' 
And he in his turn told of his encounter with Esther , with so many details that Mary was forced to be convinced , although her heart rebelled against the belief . 
said she , vehemently , `` we must find her out , -- we must hunt her up ! '' 
she rose as if she was going on the search there and then . 
asked he , fondly restraining her . 
`` Stay , Mary , for a minute ; I 'll go out now and search for her if you wish , though it 's but a wild chase . 
But if I should find her , how can I make her come with me ? 
Once before she refused , and said she could not break off her drinking ways , come what might . '' 
`` You never will persuade her if you fear and doubt , '' said Mary , in tears . 
`` Hope yourself , and trust to the good that must be in her . 
Speak to that , -- she has it in her yet , -- oh , bring her home , and we will love her so , we 'll make her good . '' 
said Jem , catching Mary 's sanguine spirit ; `` she shall go to America with us ; and we 'll help her to get rid of her sins . 
I 'll go now , my precious darling , and if I ca n't find her , it 's but trying the police to-morrow . 
Take care of your own sweet self , Mary , '' said he , fondly kissing her before he went out . 
`` She came in , the night before last , and said she had not a penny to get a place for shelter ; and that if she was far away in the country she could steal aside and die in a copse , or a clough , like the wild animals ; but here the police would let no one alone in the streets , and she wanted a spot to die in , in peace . 
Leaving many messages for her , and directions that he was to be sent for if either the policeman or the landlady obtained any clue to her where-abouts , Jem bent his steps towards Mary 's house ; for he had not seen her all that long day of search . 
He told her of his proceedings and want of success ; and both were saddened at the recital , and sat silent for some time . 
In a day or two , Mary was to give up house , and go and live for a week or so with Job Legh , until the time of her marriage , which would take place immediately before sailing ; they talked themselves back into silence and delicious reverie . 
Mary sat by Jem , his arm round her waist , her head on his shoulder ; and thought over the scenes which had passed in that home , she was so soon to leave for ever . 
Suddenly she felt Jem start , and started too without knowing why ; she tried to see his countenance , but the shades of evening had deepened so much she could read no expression there . 
It was turned to the window ; she looked and saw a white face pressed against the panes on the outside , gazing intently into the dusky chamber . 
They carried her up-stairs and laid her on Mary 's bed , not daring to undress her , lest any motion should frighten the trembling life away ; but it was all in vain . 
At the door of the house , looking towards the town , stands Mary , watching for the return of her husband from his daily work ; and while she watches , she listens , smiling ; `` Clap hands , daddy comes , With his pocket full of plums , And a cake for Johnnie . '' 
I can not guess , '' said Mary . 
Come , Mary , give a guess ! '' 
Do you guess , Mary ? '' 
She and Will are to be married on the twenty-fifth of this month , and he 's bringing her out here next voyage ; and Job Legh talks of coming too , -- not to see you , Mary , -- nor you , mother , -- nor you , my little hero '' -LRB- kissing him -RRB- , `` but to try and pick up a few specimens of Canadian insects , Will says . 
said Mary , softly and seriously . 
