`` Come , Sylvia , it is nine o'clock ! 
And Sylvia turned her face away from the flood of light that poured into the room as Prue put aside the curtains and flung up the window . 
Prue had dropped her voice to the foreboding tone so irritating to nervous persons whether sick or well , and Sylvia laid her arm across her eyes with an impatient gesture as she spoke sharply . 
Prue looked triumphant , but Sylvia was not a `` reasonable person , '' and went on in her former despondingly petulant strain . 
Sylvia smiled involuntarily at her sister 's defeat , but Prue fell back upon her last resource in times like this . 
With a determined gesture she plunged her hand into an abysmal pocket , and from a miscellaneous collection of treasures selected a tiny vial , presenting it to Sylvia with a half pleading , half authoritative look and tone . 
Sylvia received the bottle with a docile expression ; but the next minute it flew out of the window , to be shivered on the walk below , while she said , laughing like a wilful creature as she was -- `` I have taken it in the only way I ever shall , and the sparrows can try its soothing effects with me ; so be satisfied . '' 
As Prue turned away , Sylvia frowned and called after her -- `` Spare yourself the trouble , for Dr. Baum will follow the chamomilla , if you bring him here . 
Prue looked rigidly calm , but Sylvia knew that she felt hurt , and with one of the sudden impulses which ruled her the frown melted to a smile , as drawing her sister down she kissed her in her most loving manner . 
As the door closed , Sylvia sighed a long sigh of relief , and folding her arms under her head drifted away into the land of dreams , where ennui is unknown . 
All the long summer morning she lay wrapt in sleeping and waking dreams , forgetful of the world about her , till her brother played the Wedding March upon her door on his way to lunch . 
The desire to avenge the sudden downfall of a lovely castle in the air roused Sylvia , and sent her down to skirmish with Mark . 
Before she could say a word , however , Prue began to talk in a steady stream , for the good soul had a habit of jumbling news , gossip , private opinions and public affairs into a colloquial hodge-podge , that was often as trying to the intellects as the risibles of her hearers . 
`` Sylvia , we had a charming call , and Geoffrey sent his love to you . 
The necessity of disposing of a suspended mouthful produced a lull , and Sylvia seized the moment to ask in a careless way , intended to bring her brother out upon his favorite topic , -- `` How did you find your saint , Mark ? '' 
cried Sylvia . 
`` I rather liked the appearance of the saint , however , '' said Sylvia , with an expression of naughty malice , as she began her lunch . 
exclaimed her brother . 
Prue 's distressful face and Mark 's surprise produced an inspiring effect upon Sylvia , who continued , with an air of demure satisfaction -- `` I strolled about , enjoying myself , till I got into the library , and there I rummaged , for it was a charming place , and I was happy as only those are who love books , and feel their influence in the silence of a room whose finest ornaments they are . '' 
When I 'd stayed as long as I dared , and borrowed a very interesting old book -- `` Sylvia ! 
Mark enjoyed Sylvia 's pranks too much to reprove , so he only laughed while one sister lamented and the other placidly went on -- `` When I had put the book nicely in my pocket , Prue , I walked into the garden . 
`` I can safely promise that , '' answered Sylvia , with a dismal shake of the head , as she leaned listlessly from the window till her brother and sister were gone . 
Sylvia fanned and rested a few minutes , then went up and down among the flowers , often pausing to break a dead leaf , to brush away some harmful insect , or lift some struggling plant into the light ; moving among them as if akin to them , and cognizant of their sweet wants . 
If she had seemed strong-armed and sturdy as a boy before , now she was tender fingered as a woman , and went humming here and there like any happy-hearted bee . 
thought Moor , watching the sunshine glitter on her uncovered head , and listening to the air she left half sung . 
But , before he could execute his design , the roll of a carriage was heard in the avenue , and pausing an instant , with head erect like a startled doe , Sylvia turned and vanished , dropping flowers as she ran . 
Just as dinner was announced Sylvia came in , as calm and cool as if wheelbarrows were myths and linen suits unknown . 
All through dinner , though she sat as silent as a well-bred child , she looked and listened with an expression of keen intelligence that children do not wear , and sometimes smiled to herself , as if she saw or heard something that pleased and interested her . 
When they rose from table she followed Prue up stairs , quite forgetting the disarray in which the drawing-room was left . 
The gentlemen took possession before either sister returned , and Mark 's annoyance found vent in a philippic against oddities in general and Sylvia in particular ; but his father and friend sat in the cushionless chairs , and pronounced the scene amusingly novel . 
Moor looked , and thought the group a very pretty one , though a plump toad sat at Sylvia 's feet , a roly-poly caterpillar was walking up her sleeve , a blind bird chirped on her shoulder , bees buzzed harmlessly about her head , as if they mistook her for a flower , and in her hand a little field mouse was breathing its short life away . 
Any tender-hearted girl might have stood thus surrounded by helpless things that pity had endeared , but few would have regarded them with an expression like that which Sylvia wore . 
Figure , posture , and employment were so childlike in their innocent unconsciousness , that the contrast was all the more strongly marked between them and the sweet thoughtfulness that made her face singularly attractive with the charm of dawning womanhood . 
`` This is a great improvement upon the boudoir full of lap-dogs , worsted-work and novels , Miss Sylvia . 
It showed the newcomer another phase of this many-sided character ; and while Sylvia related the histories of her pets at his request , he was enjoying that finer history which every ingenuous soul writes on its owner 's countenance for gifted eyes to read and love . 
As she paused , the little mouse lay stark and still in her gentle hand ; and though they smiled at themselves , both young men felt like boys again as they helped her scoop a grave among the panzies , owning the beauty of compassion , though she showed it to them in such a simple shape . 
Then Mark delivered his message , and Sylvia went away to receive Prue 's lecture , with outward meekness , but such an absent mind that the words of wisdom went by her like the wind . 
`` Now come and take our twilight stroll , while Mark keeps Mr. Moor in the studio and Prue prepares another exhortation , '' said Sylvia , as her father woke , and taking his arm , they paced along the wide piazza that encircled the whole house . 
`` How did you find the young gentlemen , Sylvia ? '' 
`` I think you would , and perhaps if you try to be more like others you will find friends as they do , and so be happy , Sylvia . '' 
Look about , Sylvia , make yourself happy ; and , whether you find friend or lover , remember there is always the old Papa glad to do his best for you in both capacities . '' 
Sylvia 's hand crept to her father 's shoulder , and her voice was full of daughterly affection , as she said -- `` I 'll have no lover but ` the old Pupa ' for a long while yet . 
As she ended Sylvia turned about , and seeing the satisfaction of their guest in his face , prevented him from expressing it in words by saying , in her frank way -- `` Never mind the compliments . 
She looked up at him with a searching glance , appeared to find some ` assurance given by looks , ' and as a smile broke over her face she offered her hand as if obeying a sudden impulse , and said , half to him , half to herself -- `` I think I have found the friend already . '' 
Sylviasat sewing in the sunshine with an expression on her face half mirthful , half melancholy , as she looked backward to the girlhood just ended , and forward to the womanhood just beginning , for on that midsummer day , she was eighteen . 
Voices roused her from her reverie , and , looking up , she saw her brother approaching with two friends , their neighbor Geoffrey Moor and his guest Adam Warwick . 
Her first impulse was to throw down her work and run to meet them , her second to remember her new dignity and sit still , awaiting them with well-bred composure , quite unconcious that the white figure among the vines added a picturesque finish to the quiet summer scene . 
They came up warm and merry , with a brisk row across the bay , and Sylvia met them with a countenance that gave a heartier welcome than her words , as se greeted the neighbor cordially , the stranger courteously , and began to gather up her work when they seated themselves in the bamboo chairs scattered about the wide piazza . 
No , Sylvia , it ca n't be done . '' 
Sylvia tried to keep both disappointment and desire out of her voice as she spoke , though a most intense longing had taken possession of her when she heard of a projected pleasure so entirely after her own heart . 
But there was an unconscious reproach in her last words , a mute appeal in the wistful eyes that looked across the glittering bay to the green hills beyond . 
Moor nodded and smiled , Warwick nodded and sighed privately , and having taken the sense of the meeting by a new style of vote , Mark suddenly announced -- `` You can go if you like , Sylvia . '' 
Upon receipt of which Sylvia felt inclined to dance about the three and bless them audibly , but restrained herself , and beamed upon them in a state of wordless gratitude pleasant to behold . 
`` Consider that point settled and go on to the next , '' said Sylvia , who , having ruled the house ever since she was born , had no fears of success with either father or sister . 
`` Wait five minutes and I 'll triumphantly prove to the contrary , '' answered Sylvia , as she ran into the house . 
Her five minutes was sufficiently elastic to cover fifteen , for she was ravaging her wardrobe to effect her purpose and convince her brother , whose artistic tastes she consulted , with a skill that did her good service in the end . 
Rapidly assuming a gray gown , with a jaunty jacket of the same , she kilted the skirt over one of green , the pedestrian length of which displayed boots of uncompromising thickness . 
Over her shoulder , by a broad ribbon , she slung a prettily wrought pouch , and ornamented her hat pilgrimwise with a cockle shell . 
Then taking her brother 's alpenstock she crept down , and standing in the door-way presented a little figure all in gray and green , like the earth she was going to wander over , and a face that blushed and smiled and shone as she asked demurely -- `` Please , Mark , am I picturesque and convenient enough to go ? '' 
`` I say no more ; only remember , Sylvia , if you get burnt , drowned , or blown away , I 'm not responsible for the damage , and shall have the satisfaction of saying , ` There , I told you so . '' ' 
`` That satisfaction may be mine when I come home quite safe and well , '' replied Sylvia , serenely . 
Sylvia worked the three miracles , and at half past five , A. M. was discovered sitting on the piazza , with her hammock rolled into a twine sausage at her feet , her hat firmly tied on , her scrip packed , and her staff in her hand . 
`` Waiting till called for , '' she said , as her brother passed her , late and yawning as usual . 
The embarkation was a speedy one , for the cargo was soon stowed in lockers and under seats , Sylvia forwarded to her place in the bow ; Mark , as commander of the craft , took the helm ; Moor and Warwick , as crew , sat waiting orders ; and Hugh , the coachman , stood ready to push off at word of command . 
Sylvia , too full of genuine content to talk , sat listening to the musical dip of well-pulled oars , watching the green banks on either side , dabbling her hands in the eddies as they rippled by , and singing to the wind , as cheerful and serene as the river that gave her back a smiling image of herself . 
What her companions talked of she neither heard nor cared to know , for she was looking at the great picturebook that always lies ready for the turning of the youngest or the oldest hands ; was receiving the welcome of the playmates she best loved , and was silently yielding herself to the power which works all wonders with its benignant magic . 
Hour after hour she journeyed along that fluent road . 
All manner of sights and sounds greeted Sylvia , and she felt as if she were watching a Panorama painted in water colors by an artist who had breathed into his work the breath of life and given each figure power to play its part . 
Never had human faces looked so lovely to her eye , for morning beautified the plainest with its ruddy kiss ; never had human voices sounded so musical to her ear , for daily cares had not yet brought discord to the instruments tuned by sleep and touched by sunshine into pleasant sound ; never had the whole race seemed so near and dear to her , for she was unconsciously pledging all she met in that genuine Elixir Vitæ which sets the coldest blood aglow and makes the whole world kin ; never had she felt so truly her happiest self , for of all the costlier pleasures she had known not one had been so congenial as this , as she rippled farther and farther up the stream and seemed to float into a world whose airs brought only health and peace . 
Her comrades wisely left her to her thoughts , a smiling Silence for their figure-head , and none among them but found the day fairer and felt himself fitter to enjoy it for the innocent companionship of maidenhood and a happy heart . 
Now Sylvia saw new pictures , for , leaving all traces of the city behind them , they went swiftly countryward . 
To Sylvia it seemed as if the inhabitants of these solitudes had flocked down to the shore to greet her as she came . 
Her neighbors kept up a flow of conversation as steady as the river 's , and Sylvia listened now . 
Each of the three had been fortunate in seeing much of foreign life ; each had seen a different phase of it , and all were young enough to be still enthusiastic , accomplished enough to serve up their recollections with taste and skill , and give Sylvia glimpses of the world through spectacles sufficiently rose-colored to lend it the warmth which even Truth allows to her sister Romance . 
Sylvia demanded her turn , and wrestled with one big oar while Warwick sat behind and did the work . 
Having blistered her hands and given herself as fine a color as any on her brother 's palette , she professed herself satisfied , and went back to her seat to watch the evening-red transfigure earth and sky , making the river and its banks a more royal pageant than splendor-loving Elizabeth ever saw along the Thames . 
Slowly the Kelpie floated along the shadowy way , and as the shores grew dim , the river dark with leaning hemlocks or an overhanging cliff , Sylvia felt as if she were making the last voyage across that fathomless stream where a pale boatman plies and many go lamenting . 
If the influences of the hour had calmed Mark , touched Sylvia , and made Moor long for music , they had also softened Warwick . 
Sylvia was no weeper , but as she listened , all the day 's happiness which had been pent up in her heart found vent in sudden tears , that streamed down noiseless and refreshing as a warm south rain . 
Why they came she could not tell , for neither song nor singer possessed the power to win so rare a tribute , and at another time , she would have restrained all visible expression of this indefinable yet sweet emotion . 
Mark and Moor had joined in the burden of the song , and when that was done took up another ; but Sylvia only sat and let her tears flow while they would , singing at heart , though her eyes were full and her cheeks wet faster than the wind could kiss them dry . 
After frequent peerings and tackings here and there , Mark at last discovered the haven he desired , and with much rattling of oars , clanking of chains , and splashing of impetuous boots , a landing was effected , and Sylvia found herself standing on a green bank with her hammock in her arms and much wonderment in her mind whether the nocturnal experiences in store for her would prove as agreeable as the daylight ones had been . 
Power , intellect , and courage were stamped on face and figure , making him the manliest man that Sylvia had ever seen . 
Now I 've seen him , I want to know more , '' said Sylvia , as her brother laid himself down after an approving glance at the group opposite . 
asked Sylvia , woman like , beginning with the morals . 
Sylvia was silent , thinking over all she had just heard and finding much to interest her in it , because , to her imaginative and enthusiastic nature , there was something irresistibly attractive in the strong , solitary , self-reliant man . 
Mark watched her for a moment , then asked with lazy curiosity -- `` How do you like this other friend of mine ? '' 
Sylvia looked both scornful and indignant . 
`` I will , '' replied Sylvia loftily , and fate took her at her word . 
asked Sylvia , as she laid hold of her hammock and looked about her with nearly as much interest as if her suspension was to be of the perpendicular order . 
An early moon lighted Sylvia to bed , and when shown her half the barn , which , as she was a Marine , was very properly the bay , Mark explained she scouted the idea of being nervous or timid in such rude quarters , made herself a cosy nest and bade her brother a merry good night . 
More weary than she would confess , Sylvia fell asleep at once , despite the novelty of her situation and the noises that fill a summer night with fitful rustlings and tones . 
How long she slept she did not know , but woke suddenly and sat erect with that curious thrill which sometimes startles one out of deepest slumber , and is often the forerunner of some dread or danger . 
She felt this hot tingle through blood and nerves , and stared about her thinking of fire . 
But everything was dark and still , and after waiting a few moments she decided that her nest had been too warm , for her temples throbbed and her cheeks were feverish with the close air of the barn half filled with new-made hay . 
Creeping up a fragrant slope she spread her plaid again and lay down where a cool breath flowed through wide chinks in the wall . 
Sleep was slowly returning when the rustle of footsteps scared it quite away and set her heart beating fast , for they came toward the new couch she had chosen . 
Holding her breath she listened . 
The quiet tread drew nearer and nearer till it paused within a yard of her , then some one seemed to throw themselves down , sigh heavily a few times and grow still as if falling asleep . 
`` It is Mark , '' thought Sylvia , and whispered his name , but no one answered , and from the other corner of the barn she heard her brother muttering in his sleep . 
Mark had said there were no cattle near , she was sure neither of her comrades had left their bivouac , for there was her brother talking as usual in his dreams ; some one seemed restless and turned often with decided motion , that was Warwick , she thought , while the quietest sleeper of the three betrayed his presence by laughing once with the low-toned merriment she recognized as Moor 's . 
These discoveries left her a prey to visions of grimy strollers , maudlin farm-servants , and infectious emigrants in dismal array . 
A strong desire to cry out possessed her for a moment , but was checked ; for with all her sensitiveness Sylvia had much common sense , and that spirit which hates to be conquered even by a natural fear . 
She remembered her scornful repudiation of the charge of timidity , and the endless jokes she would have to undergo if her mysterious neighbor should prove some harmless wanderer or an imaginary terror of her own , so she held her peace , thinking valiantly as the drops gathered on her forehead , and every sense grew painfully alert -- `` I 'll not call if my hair turns gray with fright , and I find myself an idiot to-morrow . 
Holding fast to this resolve Sylvia lay motionless , listening to the cricket 's chirp without , and taking uncomfortable notes of the state of things within , for the new comer stirred heavily , sighed long and deeply , and seemed to wake often , like one too sad or weary to rest . 
She would have been wise to have screamed her scream and had the rout over , for she tormented herself with the ingenuity of a lively fancy , and suffered more from her own terrors than at the discovery of a dozen vampires . 
Every tale of diablerieshe had ever heard came most inopportunely to haunt her now , and though she felt their folly she could not free herself from their dominion . 
She wondered till she could wonder no longer what the morning would show her . 
She tried to calculate in how many springs she could reach and fly over the low partition which separated her from her sleeping body-guard . 
She wished with all her heart that she had stayed in her nest which was nearer the door , and watched for dawn with eyes that ached to see the light . 
In the midst of these distressful sensations the far-off crow of some vigilant chanticleer assured her that the short summer night was wearing away and relief was at hand . 
This comfortable conviction had so good an effect that she lapsed into what seemed a moment 's oblivion , but was in fact an hour 's restless sleep , for when her eyes unclosed again the first red streaks were visible in the east , and a dim light found its way into the barn through the great door which had been left ajar for air . 
An instant Sylvia lay collecting herself , then rose on her arm , looked resolutely behind her , stared with round eyes a moment , and dropped down again , laughing with a merriment , which coming on the heels of her long alarm was rather hysterical . 
All she saw was a little soft-eyed Alderney , which lifted its stag-like head , and regarded her with a confiding aspect that won her pardon for its innocent offence . 
Through the relief of both mind and body which she experienced in no small degree , the first thought that came was a thankful `` what a mercy I did n't call Mark , for I should never have heard the last of this ; '' and having fought her fears alone she enjoyed her success alone , and girl-like resolved to say nothing of her first night 's adventures . 
Gathering herself up the crept nearer and caressed her late terror , which stretched its neck toward her with a comfortable sound , and munched her shawl like a cosset lamb . 
But before this new friendship was many minutes old , Sylvia 's heavy lids fell together , her head dropped lower and lower , her hand lay still on the dappled neck , and with a long sigh of weariness she dropped back upon the hay , leaving little Alderney to watch over her much more tranquilly than she had watched over it . 
Veryearly were they afloat again , and as they glided up the stream Sylvia watched the earth 's awakening , seeing in it what her own should be . 
The sun was not yet visible above the hills , but the sky was ready for his coming , with the soft flush of color dawn gives only to her royal lover . 
Sylvia could not conceal the weariness her long vigil left behind ; and after betraying herself by a drowsy lurch that nearly took her overboard , she made herself comfortable , and slept till the grating of the keel on a pebbly shore woke her to find a new harbor reached under the lee of a cliff , whose deep shadow was very grateful after the glare of noon upon the water . 
`` Moor and I want to climb the cliff and sketch the view ; but it is too rough a road for Sylvia . 
Read away , and leave her to amuse herself ; only pray do n't let her get into any mischief by way of enjoying her liberty , for she fears nothing and is fond of experiments . '' 
Having slung the hammock and seen Sylvia safely into it , the climbers departed , leaving her to enjoy the luxury of motion . 
For half an hour she swung idly , looking up into the green pavilion overhead , where many insect families were busy with their small joys and cares , or out over the still landscape basking in the warmth of a cloudless afternoon . 
Then she opened a book Mark had brought for his own amusement , and began to read as intently as her companion , who leaned against the boulder slowly turning his pages , with leafy shadows flickering over his uncovered head and touching it with alternate sun and shade . 
The book proved interesting , and Sylvia was rapidly skimming into the heart of the story , when an unguarded motion caused her swing to slope perilously to one side , and in saving herself she lost her book . 
This produced a predicament , for being helped into a hammock and getting out alone are two very different things She eyed the distance from her nest to the ground , and fancied it had been made unusually great to keep her stationary . 
She held fast with one hand and stretched downward with the other ; but the book insolently flirted its leaves just out of reach . 
She took a survey of Warwick ; he had not perceived her plight , and she felt an unwonted reluctance to call for help , because he did not look like one used to come and go at a woman 's bidding . 
Sylvia subsided , and coming up he lifted the book , glanced at the title , then keenly at the reader . 
Sylvia caught a glimpse of the one he had been reading himself , and impelled by a sudden impulse to see what would come of it , she answered with a look as keen as his own -- `` You disapprove of my book ; would you recommend yours ? '' 
He offered both ; but Sylvia took refuge in civility . 
Sylvia descended as gracefully as circumstances permitted , and went roving up and down the cliffs . 
Yes , thank you , I should like it very much ; '' and producing her housewife , Sylvia fell to work with a brightening face . 
Warwick sat a little below her on the rock , shaping his basket in perfect silence . 
This did not suit Sylvia , for feeling lively and loquacious she wanted conversation to occupy her thoughts as pleasantly as the birch rolls were occupying her hands , and there sat a person who , she was sure , could do it perfectly if he chose . 
She reconnoitered with covert glances , made sundry overtures , and sent out envoys in the shape of scissors , needles , and thread . 
But no answering glance met hers ; her remarks received the briefest replies , and her offers of assistance were declined with an absent `` No , thank you . '' 
Then she grew indignant at this seeming neglect , and thought , as she sat frowning over her work , behind his back -- `` He treats me like a child , -- very well , then , I 'll behave like one , and beset him with questions till he is driven to speak ; for he can talk , he ought to talk , he shall talk . '' 
she began , with a determined aspect . 
There was a curious smile about Warwick 's mouth as he spoke , and Sylvia was rather abashed by her first exploit . 
But there was a pleasure in the daring , and choosing another topic she tried again . 
asked Sylvia , smiling and interested . 
He spoke so gravely , looked so stern , that Sylvia obeyed a warning instinct and sat silent till she had completed a canoe-shaped basket , the useful size of which produced a sudden longing to fill it . 
Her eye had already spied a knoll across the river covered with vines , and so suggestive of berries that she now found it impossible to resist the desire for an exploring trip in that direction . 
The boat was too large for her to manage alone , but an enterprising spirit had taken possession of her , and having made one voyage of discovery with small success she resolved to try again , hoping a second in another direction might prove more fruitful . 
she asked . 
Sylvia looked up at him with amerry mixture of doubt and daring in her face , and offered him his hat . 
There was no dry landing-place just opposite , and as he rowed higher , Adam fixed his eyes on Sylvia with a look peculiar to himself , a gaze more keen than soft , which seemed to search one through and through with its rapid discernment . 
Sylvia could not be offended by the grave penetration of this glance , though an uncomfortable consciousness that she was being analyzed and tested made her meet it with a look intended to be dignified , but which was also somewhat defiant , and more than one smile passed over Warwick 's countenance as he watched her . 
The moment the boat glided with a soft swish among the rushes that fringed the shore , she sprang up the bank , and leaving a basket behind her by way of hint , hurried to the sandy knoll , where , to her great satisfaction , she found the vines heavy with berries . 
As Warwick joined her she held up a shining cluster , saying with a touch of exultation in her voice -- `` My faith is rewarded ; taste and believe . '' 
And down upon her knees went Sylvia among the vines , regardless of stains , rents , or wounded hands . 
Warwick strolled away to leave her `` claim '' free , and silence fell between them ; for one was too busy with thorns , the other with thoughts , to break the summer stillness . 
Sylvia worked with as much energy as if a silver cup was to be the reward of success . 
The sun shone fervently and the wind was cut off by the hill , drops gathered on her forehead and her cheeks glowed ; but she only pushed off her hat , thrust back her hair , and moved on to a richer spot . 
Vines caught at her by sleeve and skirt as if to dishearten the determined plunderer , but on she went with a wrench and a rip , an impatient `` Ah ! '' 
Lively crickets flew up in swarms about her , surly wasps disputed her right to the fruit , and drunken bees blundered against her as they met zigzagging homeward much the worse for blackberry wine . 
She never heeded any of them , though at another time she would gladly have made friends with all , but found compensation for her discomforts in the busy twitter of sand swallows perched on the mullein-tops , the soft flight of yellow butterflies , and the rapidity with which the little canoe received its freight of `` Ethiop sweets . '' 
As the last handful went in she sprung up crying `` Done ! '' 
came back Warwick 's answer like a deep echo from below , and hurrying down to meet him she displayed her success , saying archly -- `` I am glad we both won , though to be perfectly candid I think mine is decidedly the fullest . '' 
But as she swung up her birch pannier the handle broke , and down went basket , berries and all , into the long grass rustling at her feet . 
Warwick could not restrain a laugh at the blank dismay that fell upon the exultation of Sylvia 's face , and for a moment she was both piqued and petulant . 
But she was too old to cry , too proud to complain , too well-bred to resent , so the little gust passed over unseen , she thought , and joining in the merriment she said , as she knelt down beside the wreck -- `` This is a practical illustration of the old proverb , and I deserve it for my boasting . 
His face softened suddenly as he collected several broad leaves , spread them on the grass , and sitting down by Sylvia , looked under her hat-brim with a glance of mingled penitence and friendliness . 
Then drawing out his knife he fell to work , and while he tied green withes , as if the task were father to the thought , he told her something of a sojourn among the Indians , of whom he had learned much concerning their woodcraft , arts , and superstitions ; lengthening the legend till the little canoe was ready for another launch . 
With her fancy full of war-trails and wampum . 
Sylvia followed to the river-side , and as they floated back dabbled her stained fingers in the water , comforting their smart with its cool flow till they swept by the landing-place , when she asked , wonderingly -- `` Where are we going now ? 
Something in her frank tone , her confiding look , seemed to please Warwick ; he sat a moment looking into the brown depths of the water , and let the boat drift , with no sound but the musical drip of drops from the oars . 
Sylvia marvelled greatly at the change which came upon him , but held fast with flying hair and lips apart to catch the spray , enjoying the breezy flight along a path tessellated with broad bars of blue and gold . 
cried Sylvia , capturing a great white flower with a clutch that nearly took her overboard . 
Warwick drew her back and did the gathering himself . 
As Warwick offered her the dripping nosegay he looked at the white hand scored with scarlet lines . 
You are a true woman , Miss Sylvia , for though your palm is purple there 's not a stain upon your lips , and you have neither worked nor suffered for yourself it seems . '' 
Pleased , yet somewhat abashed , Sylvia busied herself in knotting up the long brown stems and tinging her nose with yellow pollen as she inhaled the bitter-sweet breath of the lilies . 
But when Warwick turned to resume the oars , she said -- `` Let us float out as we floated in . 
All the sky wore its serenest blue , and up the river came frolic winds , ruffling the lily leaves until they showed their purple linings , sweeping shadowy ripples through the long grass , and lifting the locks from Sylvia 's forehead with a grateful touch , as she sat softly swaying with the swaying of the boat . 
Slowly they drifted out into the current , slowly Warwick cleft the water with reluctant stroke , and slowly Sylvia 's mind woke from its trance of dreamy delight , as with a gesture of assent she said -- `` Yes , I am ready now . 
A moment after she added , eagerly , as a new object of interest appeared : `` Mr. Warwick , I see smoke . 
He glanced over his shoulder at the black cloud trailing away before the wind , saw Sylvia 's desire in her face , and silently complied ; for being a keen student of character , he was willing to prolong an interview that gave him glimpses of a nature in which the woman and the child were curiously blended . 
This bank is not high enough ; let us go nearer and enjoy it , '' said Sylvia , finding that an orchard and a knoll or two intercepted the view of the burning wood . 
The decision of his tone ruffled Sylvia , and she turned wilful at once , saying in a tone as decided as his own -- `` No ; I wish to see it . 
I am always allowed to do what I wish , so I shall go ; '' with which mutinous remark she walked straight away towards the burning wood . 
Warwick looked after her , indulging a momentary desire to carry her back to the boat , like a naughty child . 
But the resolute aspect of the figure going on before him , convinced him that the attempt would be a failure , and with an amused expression he leisurely followed her . 
Sylvia had not walked five minutes before she was satisfied that it wastoo far : but having rebelled , she would not own herself in the wrong , and being perverse , insisted upon carrying her point , though she walked all night . 
On she went over walls , under rails , across brooks , along the furrows of more than one ploughed field , and in among the rustling corn , that turned its broad leaves to the sun , always in advance of her companion , who followed with exemplary submission , but also with a satirical smile , that spurred her on as no other demonstration could have done . 
Six o'clock sounded from the church behind the hill ; still the wood seemed to recede as she pursued , still close behind her came the steady footfalls , with no sound of weariness in them , and still Sylvia kept on , till , breathless , but successful , she reached the object of her search . 
Keeping to the windward of the smoke , she gained a rocky spot still warm and blackened by the late passage of the flames , and pausing there , forgot her own pranks in watching those which the fire played before her eyes . 
Sylvia glanced up at her companion , as he stood regarding the scene with the intent , alert expression one often sees in a fine hound when he scents danger in the air . 
But Warwick did not answer , for as she spoke a long , sharp cry of human suffering rose above the tumult , terribly distinct and full of ominous suggestion . 
For ten minutes Sylvia waited , pale and anxious ; then her patience gave out , and saying to herself , `` I can go where he does , and women are always more helpful than men at such times , '' she followed in the direction whence came the fitful sound of voices . 
The ground was hot underneath her feet , red eyes winked at her from the blackened sod , and fiery tongues darted up here and there , as if the flames were lurking still , ready for another outbreak . 
Intent upon her charitable errand , and excited by the novel scene , she pushed recklessly on , leaping charred logs , skirting still burning stumps , and peering eagerly into the dunveil that wavered to and fro . 
The appearance of an impassable ditch obliged her to halt , and pausing to take breath , she became aware that she had lost her way . 
The echo of voices had ceased , a red glare was deepening in front , and clouds of smoke enveloped her in a stifling atmosphere . 
A sense of bewilderment crept over her ; she knew not where she was ; and after a rapid flight in what she believed a safe direction had been cut short by the fall of a blazing tree before her , she stood still , taking counsel with herself . 
Darkness and danger seemed to encompass her , fire flickered on every side , and suffocating vapors shrouded earth and sky . 
A bare rock suggested one hope of safety , and muffling her head in her skirt , she lay down faint and blind , with a dull pain in her temples , and a fear at her heart fast deepening into terror , as her breath grew painful and her head began to swim . 
As the regret rose , a cry of suffering and entreaty broke from her . 
She had not called for help till now , thinking herself too remote , her voice too feeble to overpower the din about her . 
But some one had thought of her , for as the cry left her lips steps came crashing through the wood , a pair of strong arms caught her up , and before she could collect her scattered senses she was set down beyond all danger on the green bank of a little pool . 
asked Warwick , as he dashed a handful of water in her face with such energetic goodwill that it took her breath away . 
gasped Sylvia , warding off a second baptism and staring dizzily about her . 
Sylvia changed the subject , for Warwick stood regarding her with an irate expression that was somewhat alarming . 
Fanning herself with the wet hat , she asked abruptly -- `` Was the man hurt , sir ? '' 
Sylvia sat down as suddenly as she had risen , and covered her face with a shiver , remembering that her own wilfulness had tempted a like fate , and she too , might now have been ` past help , above all want . ' 
Warwick went down to the pool to bathe his hot face and blackened hands ; as he returned Sylvia met him with a submissive -- `` I will go back now if you are ready , sir . '' 
If the way had seemed long in coming it was doubly so in returning , for neither pride nor perversity sustained her now , and every step cost an effort . 
`` I can rest in the boat , '' was her sustaining thought ; great therefore was her dismay when on reaching the river no boat was to be seen . 
Sylvia looked disturbed , Warwick impenetrable , the river wide , the road long , and the cliffs the most inaccessible of places . 
An impressive pause ensued , then she said frankly -- `` It is my own fault and I 'll take the consequences . 
If I do n't appear till dawn , tell Mark I sent him a good night , '' and girding up her energies she walked bravely off with much external composure and internal chagrin . 
For a time she kept in advance , then allowed him to gain upon her , and presently fell behind , plodding doggedly on through thick and thin , vainly trying to conceal the hunger and fatigue that were fast robbing her of both strength and spirits . 
Adam watched her with a masculine sense of the justice of the retribution which his wilful comrade had brought upon herself . 
But as he saw the elasticity leave her steps , the color fade from her cheeks , the resolute mouth relax , and the wistful eyes dim once or twice with tears of weariness and vexation , pity got the better of pique , and he relented . 
Sylvia dropped down at once , and for a few minutes neither spoke , for the air was full of sounds more pertinent to the summer night than human voices . 
Twillight was creeping over forest , hill , and stream , and seemed to drop refreshment and repose upon all weariness of soul and body , more grateful to Sylvia , than the welcome seat and leafy cup of water Warwick brought her from the spring . 
The appearance of a thirsty sparrow gave her thoughts a pleasant turn , for , sitting motionless , she watched the little creature trip down to the pool , drink and bathe , then flying to a willow spray , dress its feathers , dry its wings , and sit chirping softly as if it sang its evening hymn . 
Warwick saw her interest , and searching in his pocket , found the relics of a biscuit , strewed a few bits upon the ground before him , and began a low , sweet whistle , which rose gradually to a varied strain , alluring , spirited , and clear as any bird voice of the wood . 
Involuntarily Sylvia clapped her hands , and , startled by the sudden sound , little sparrow skimmed away . 
He held his hand to her , and she put her own into it with a confidence as instinctive as the bird 's . 
Sylvia felt that it was pleasant to be the object of his care , fancied that they would learn to know each other better in three days of this free life than in as many months at home , and rejoiced over the discovery of unsuspected traits in him , like the soft lining of the chestnut burr , to which she had compared him more than once that afternoon . 
The welcome blaze of their own fire gladdened them at length , and when the last step was taken , Sylvia sat down with an inward conviction she never could get up again . 
As she tied the last knot , Sylvia glanced up with a look that mutely asked pardon for past waywardness , and expressed gratitude for past help ; then , as if her heart were set at rest , she was gone before her patient could return his thanks . 
She did not reappear , Mark went to send a lad after the lost boat , and the two friends were left alone ; Warwick watching the blaze , Moor watching him , till , with a nod toward a pair of diminutive boots that stood turning out their toes before the fire , Adam said -- `` The wearer of those defiant-looking articles is the most capricious piece of humanity it was ever my fortune to see . 
Sylvia decorated herself with garlands till she looked like a mermaid ; Mark , as skipper , issued his orders with the true Marblehead twang ; Moor kept up a fire of pun-provoking raillery ; Warwick sung like a jovial giant ; while the Kelpie danced over the water as if inspired with the universal gayety , and the very ripples seemed to laugh as they hurried by . 
Of course you wo n't let it , '' said Sylvia , welcoming the prospect of a race . 
Her brother looked over his shoulder , took a critical survey , and nodded approvingly . 
A sudden lull ensued on board the Kelpie while the blue shirts approached , caught , and passed with a great display of science , as Sylvia had prophesied , and as good an imitation of the demeanor of experienced watermen as could be assumed by a trio of studious youths not yet out of their teens . 
`` All serene , '' returned the rival helmsman , with a bow in honor of Sylvia , while the other two caused a perceptible increase in the speed of the `` Juanita , '' whose sentimental name was not at all in keeping with its rakish appearance . 
Sylvia watched both boats , yearning to take an oar herself , yet full of admiration for the well-trained rowers , whose swift strokes set the river in a foam and made the moment one of pleasure and excitement . 
Sylvia sat watching the lads , and one among them struck her fancy . 
The helmsman who had bowed to her was slight and swarthy , with Southern eyes , vivacious manners , and a singularly melodious voice . 
A Spaniard , she thought , and pleased herself with this picturesque figure till a traitorous smile about the young man 's mouth betrayed that he was not unconscious of her regard . 
She colored as she met the glance of mingled mirth and admiration that he gave her , and hastily began to pull off the weedy decorations which she had forgotten . 
But she paused presently , for she heard a surprised voice exclaim -- `` Why , Warwick ! 
Looking up Sylvia saw Adam lift the hat he had pulled over his brows , and take a slender brown hand extended over the boat-side with something like reluctance , as he answered the question in Spanish . 
Sylvia knew nothing of the language , but received an impression that Warwick was not overjoyed at the meeting ; that the youth was both pleased and perplexed by finding him there ; and that neither parted with much regret as the distance slowly widened between the boats , and with a farewell salute parted company , each taking a different branch of the river , which divided just there . 
A drop of rain roused Sylvia from the contemplation of an imaginary portrait of the little Cuban girl , and looking skyward she saw that the frolicsome wind had prepared a practical joke for them in the shape of a thunder-shower . 
Abel , a staid farmer of forty , obeyed his mother 's order regarding the `` men folks ; '' and Phebe , a buxom girl of sixteen , led Sylvia to her own room , eagerly offering her best . 
As shed dried and redressed herself , Sylvia made sundry discoveries , which added to the romance and the enjoyment of the adventure . 
Upon receipt of which intelligence Sylvia proposed an immediate departure ; but the grandmother and daughter cried out at this , pointed to the still falling rain , the lowering sky , the wet hcap on the floor , and insisted on the strangers all remaining to enjoy the festival , and give an added interest by their presence . 
Half promising what she wholly desired , Sylvia put on Phebe 's second best blue gingham gown for the preservation of which she added a white apron , and completing the whole with a pair of capacious shoes , went down to find her party and reveal the state of affairs . 
They were bestowed in the prim , best parlor , and greeted her with a peal of laughter , for all were en costume.Abel was a stout man , and his garments hung upon Moor with a melancholy air ; Mark had disdained them , and with an eye to effect laid hands on an old uniform , in which he looked like a volunteer of 1812 ; while Warwick 's superior height placed Abel 's wardrobe out of the question ; and grandpa , taller than any of his seven goodly sons , supplied him with a sober suit , -- roomy , square-flapped , and venerable , -- which became him , and with his beard produced the curious effect of a youthful patriarch . 
To Sylvia 's relief it was unanimously decided to remain , trusting to their own penetration to discover the most agreeable method of returning the favor ; and regarding the adventure as a welcome change , after two days ' solitude , all went out to dinner prepared to enact their parts with spirit . 
The meal being despatched , Mark and Warwick went to help Abel with some out-door arrangements ; and begging grandma to consider him one of her own boys , Moor tied on an apron and fell to work with Sylvia , laying the long table which was to receive the coming stores . 
Sylvia trimmed the table with common flowers till it was an inviting sight before a viand appeared upon it , and hung green boughs about the room , with candles here and there to lend a festal light . 
Sylvia presided over Phebe 's toilet , and then sat herself down to support Nat through the trying half hour before , as he expressed it , `` the party came in . '' 
asked Sylvia , with the interest that always won small people , because their quick instincts felt that it was sincere . 
Sylvia chose Saint John , because it resembled Moor , she thought ; bespoke and paid for a whole set , and privately resolved to send tools and rare woods to the little artist that he might serve his mother in his own pretty way . 
This was evidently the best room of the house ; and as Sylvia sat talking to the invalid her eye discovered many traces of that refinement which comes through the affections . 
Sylvia amused her new friends mightily , for finding that neither mother nor son had any complaints to make , any sympathy to ask , she exerted herself to give them what both needed , and kept them laughing by a lively recital of her voyage and its mishaps . 
`` I think you have something better , a contented one , '' said Sylvia , as the woman regarded her with no sign of envy or regret . 
Something in the woman 's manner struck Sylvia as she watched her softly beating some tune on the sheet with her quiet eyes turned toward the light . 
Sylvia was enraptured with the wilderness of babies , and leaving the others to their own devices followed the matrons to `` Patience 's room , '' and gave herself up to the pleasant tyranny of the small potentates , who swarmed over her as she sat on the floor , tugging at her hair , exploring her eyes , covering her with moist kisses , and keeping up a babble of little voices more delightful to her than the discourse of the flattered mammas who benignly surveyed her admiration and their offspring 's prowess . 
But Sylvia lingered where she was , enjoying a scene which filled her with a tender pain and pleasure , for each baby was laid on grandma 's knee , its small virtues , vices , ailments , and accomplishments rehearsed , its beauties examined , its strength tested , and the verdict of the family oracle pronounced upon it as it was cradled , kissed , and blessed on the kind old heart which had room for every care and joy of those who called her mother . 
Fearing to be in the way , Sylvia departed to the barn , where she found her party in a chaotic Babel ; for the offshoots had been as fruitful as the parent tree , and some four dozen young immortals were in full riot . 
Sylvia joined this group and partook of a quiet entertainment with as childlike a relish as any of them , while the merry tumult went on about her . 
A detachment of half-grown girls was drawn up behind grandma , as waiters ; Sylvia insisted on being one of them , and proved herself a neat-handed Phillis , though for a time slightly bewildered by the gastronomic performances she beheld . 
Babies ate pickles , small boys sequestered pie with a velocity that made her wink , women swam in the tea , and the men , metaphorically speaking , swept over the table like a swarm of locusts , while the host and hostess beamed upon one another and their robust descendants with an honest pride , which was beautiful to see . 
Sylvia walked away wondering why persons were always thinking and saying such things . 
As she paused behind Warwick 's chair with a glass of cream and a round of brown bread , he looked up at her with his blandest expression , though a touch of something like regret was in his voice . 
He put the glass to her lips , drank what she left , and rising , placed her in his seat with the decisive air which few resisted . 
He served her , and standing at her back , bent now and then to speak , still with that softened look upon the face so seldom stirred by the gentler emotions that lay far down in that deep heart of his ; for never had he felt so solitary . 
Warwick skimmed his five years partner through the air in a way that rendered her speechless with delight ; and Sylvia danced as she never danced before . 
With sticky-fingered boys , sleepy with repletion , but bound to last it out ; with roughfaced men who paid her paternal compliments ; with smart youths who turned sheepish with that white lady 's hand in their big brown ones , and one ambitious lad who confided to her his burning desire to work a sawmill , and marry a girl with black eyes and yellow hair . 
Sylvia had heard much fine music , but never any that touched her like this , for , though often discordant , it was hearty , with that under-current of feeling which adds sweetness to the rudest lay , and is often more attractive than the most florid ornament or faultless execution . 
And when they ended with that song which should be classed with sacred music for association 's sake , and standing hand in hand about the room with the golden bride and bridegroom in their midst , sang `` Home , '' Sylvia leaned against her brother with dim eyes and a heart too full to sing . 
While Sylvia looked and listened a sense of genuine devotion stole over her ; the beauty and the worth of prayer grew clear to her through the earnest speech of that unlettered man , and for the first time she fully felt the nearness and the dearness of the Universal Father , whom she had been taught to fear , yet longed to love . 
The old couple got into their chairs , and as they sat there side by side , remembering that she had given no gift , Sylvia crept behind them , and lending the magic of her voice to the simple air , sang the fittest song for time and place -- `` John Anderson my Jo . '' 
Before the red bandana had gently performed its work in grandpa 's hand , Sylvia beckoned her party from the room , and showing them the clear moonlight night which followed the storm , suggested that they should both save appearances and enjoy a novel pleasure by floating homeward instead of sleeping . 
All night Sylvia lay under the canopy of boughs her brother made to shield her from the dew , listening to the soft sounds about her , the twitter of a restless bird , the bleat of some belated lamb , the ripple of a brook babbling like a baby in its sleep . 
All night she watched the changing shores , silvery green or dark with slumberous shadow , and followed the moon in its tranquil journey through the sky . 
When it set , she drew her cloak about her , and , pillowing her head upon her arm , exchanged the waking for a sleeping dream . 
A thick mist encompassed her when she awoke . 
Above the sun shone dimly , below rose and fell the billows of the sea , before her sounded the city 's fitful hum , and far behind her lay the green wilderness where she had lived and learned so much . 
But still with backward glance the girl watched the misty wall that rose between her and the charmed river , and still with yearning heart confessed how sweet that brief experience had been , for though she had not yet discovered it , like `` I neverdid understand you , Sylvia ; and this last month you have been a perfect enigma to me . '' 
`` I always was to myself , Prue , and am more so than ever now , '' answered Sylvia , waking out of her reverie with a smile that proved it had been a pleasant one . 
Miss Yule could not read the secret of the change , yet felt its novel charm ; Sylvia could not explain it , though penetrated by its power ; and for a moment the sisters looked into each other 's faces , wondering why each seemed altered . 
So earnestly she spoke , so cheerfully she smiled , that Miss Yule blessed the mood and echoed Sylvia 's wish , exclaiming in the next breath , with a sudden inspiration -- `` My , dear , I 've got it ! 
`` There is another new change , Sylvia . 
asked Sylvia , pausing on the threshold with a shy yet wistful glance . 
Sylvia had never asked that question before , had never seemed to know or care , and could not have chosen a more auspicious moment for her frank inquiry than the present . 
The answer seemed to satisfy her , and smiling at some blithe anticipation of her own , she went away to make a lampless toilet in the dusk , which proved how slight a hold the feminine passion for making one 's self pretty had yet taken upon her . 
The September moon was up and shining clearly over garden , lawn , and sea , when the sound of voices called her down . 
At the stair-foot she paused with a disappointed air , for only one hat lay on the hall table , and a glance showed her only one guest with Mark and Prue . 
The evergreens that enclosed it made the seat doubly dark to eyes inured to the outer light , and seeing a familiar seeming figure sitting with its head upon its hand , Sylvia leaned in , saying , with a daughterly caress -- `` Why , what is my romantie father doing here ? '' 
The sense of touch was quicker than that of sight , and with an exclamation of surprise she had drawn back before Warwick replied -- `` It is not the old man , but the young one , who is romancing here . '' 
Sylvia was a little startled , else she would scarcely have asked so plain a question . 
Sylvia stood silent for a moment as if intent on fastening in her hair the delicate spray of hop-bells just gathered from the vine that formed a leafy frame for the graceful picture which she made standing , with uplifted arms , behind the arch . 
When she spoke it was to say , as she moved on toward the house -- `` It is too beautiful a night to stay in doors , but Prue is waiting for me , and Mark wants to plan with you about our ride to-morrow . 
She beckoned , and he came out of the shadow showing her an expression which she had never seen before . 
She had seen him intellectually excited many times ; never emotionally till now . 
Something wayward , yet warm , in this new mood attracted her , because so like her own . 
But with a tact as native as her sympathy she showed no sign of this , except in the attentive look she fixed upon him as the moonlight bathed him in its splendor . 
Sylvia pondered an instant before she answered slowly -- `` If the promise was freely given , no sin committed in its keeping , and no peace troubled but one 's own , I should say yes . '' 
Still pausing , he looked down at her with that unquiet glance as she looked up with her steady one , and with the same anxiety he asked -- `` Would you keep such a promise inviolate , even though it might cost you the sacrifice of something dearer to you than your life ? '' 
She thought again , and again looked up , answering with the sincerity that he had taught her -- `` It might be unwise , but if the sacrifice was not one of principle or something that I ought to love more than life , I think I should keep the promise as religiously as an Indian keeps a vow of vengeance . '' 
As she spoke , some recollection seemed to strike Warwick like a sudden stab . 
Sylvia saw his lips move , but caught no sound till he said with a gravity that was almost gloom -- `` I think you would ; therefore , beware how you bind yourself with such verbal bonds . 
They went ; Warwick to the drawing-room , but Sylvia ran up stairs for the Berlin wools , which in spite of heat and the sure staining of fingers were to be wound that night according to contract , for she kept a small promise as sacredly as she would have done a greater one . 
`` What have you been doing to give yourself such an uplifted expression , Sylvia ? '' 
said Mark , as she came in . 
she answered , laying her brilliant burden on the table where Warwick sat examining a broken reel , and Prue was absorbed in getting a carriage blanket under way . 
`` Come , Sylvia , I shall soon be ready for the first shade , '' she said , clashing her formidable needles . 
`` Then you must put the skeins on a chair , Sylvia . 
Sylvia began to wind the wools with a swift dexterity as natural to her hands as certain little graces of gesture which made their motions pleasant to watch . 
he turned , planted himself squarely before Sylvia , and held out his hands . 
Moor was with Mr. Yule in his study , Prue mentally wrapped in her blanket , and when Sylvia was drawn into an artistic controversy with her brother , Warwick fell into deep thought . 
The last skein came , and as she wound it , Sylvia 's glance involuntarily rose from the strong hands to the face above them , and lingered there , for the penetrating gaze was averted , and an unwonted mildness inspired confidence as its usual expression of power commanded respect . 
Intent upon discovering the secret of the mastery he exerted over all who approached him , Sylvia had quite forgotten herself , when suddenly Warwick 's eyes were fixed full upon her own . 
What spell lay in them she could not tell , for human eye had never shed such sudden summer over her . 
Admiration was not in it , for it did not agltate ; nor audacity , for it did not abash ; but something that thrilled warm through blood and nerves , that filled her with a glad submission to some power , absolute yet tender , and caused her to turn her innocent face freely to his gaze , letting him read therein a sentiment for which she had not yet found a name . 
Sylvia 's eyes fell first , but no blush followed , no sign of anger or perplexity , only a thoughtful silence , which continued till the last violet thread dropped from his hands , and she said almost regretfully -- `` This is the end . '' 
Sylvia sat a moment as if quite forgetful where she was , so absorbing was some thought or emotion . 
Presently she seemed to glow and kindle with an inward fire ; over face and forehead rushed an impetuous color , her eyes shone , and her lips trembled with the fluttering of her breath . 
Then a panic appeared to seize her , for , stealing noiselessly away , she hurried to her room , and covering up her face as if to hide it even from herself , whispered to that full heart of hers , with quick coming tears that belied the words -- `` Now I know why I am happy ! '' 
How long she lay there weeping and smiling in the moonlight she never knew . 
Her sister 's call broke in upon the first love dream she had ever woven for herself , and she went down to bid the friends good night . 
The hall was only lighted by the moon , and in the dimness of the shadow where she stood , no one saw traces of that midsummer shower on her cheeks , or detected the soft trouble in her eye , but for the first time Moor felt her hand tremble in his own and welcomed the propitious omen . 
Moor liked and adopted it ; Warwick had never done so , but that night he gave a hand to Prue and Mark with his most cordial expression , and Sylvia felt both her own taken in a warm lingering grasp , although he only said `` good by ! '' 
Then they went ; but while the three paused at the door held by the beauty of the night , back to them on the wings of the wind came Warwick 's voice singing the song that Sylvia loved . 
When evening came again Sylvia waited on the lawn to have the meeting over in the dark , for love made her very shy . 
But Moor came alone , and his first words were , `` Comfort me , Sylvia , Adam is gone . 
She murmured some stereotyped regret , but there was a sharp pain at her heart till there came to her the remembrance of Warwick 's question , uttered on the spot where she was standing . 
Some solace she must have , and clinging to this one thought hopefully within herself -- `` He has made some promise , has gone to get released from it , and will come back to say what he looked last night . 
She did wait , but week after week went by and Warwick did not come . 
Whoevercares only for incident and action in a book had better skip this chapter and read on ; but those who take an interest in the delineation of character will find the key to Sylvia 's here . 
On one side , Poverty offered the aspiring youth her meagre hand ; but he was not wise enough to see the virtues hidden under her hard aspect , nor brave enough to learn the stern yet salutary lessons which labor , necessity , and patience teach , giving to those who serve and suffer the true success . 
On the other hand Opulence allured him with her many baits , and , silencing the voice of conscience , he yielded to temptation and wrecked his nobler self . 
In Sylvia he saw , mysteriously blended , the two natures that had given her life , although she was born when the gulf between regretful husband and sad wife was widest . 
These two masters ruled soul and body , warring against each other , making Sylvia an enigma to herself and her life a train of moods . 
But Sylvia had never known mother-love , for her life came through death ; and the only legacy bequeathed her was a slight hold upon existence , a ceaseless craving for affection , and the shadow of a tragedy that wrung from the pale lips , that grew cold against her baby cheek , the cry , `` Free at last , thank God for that ! '' 
Prue unconsciously exasperated Sylvia , Sylvia unconsciously shocked Prue , and they hitched along together each trying to do well and each taking diametrically opposite measures to effect her purpose . 
Mark briefly but truly described them when he said , `` Sylvia trims the house with flowers , but Prudence dogs her with a dustpan . '' 
Mark had been years away ; and though the brother and sister were tenderly attached , sex , tastes , and pursuits kept them too far apart , and Sylvia was solitary even in this social seeming home . 
Dissatisfied with herself , she endeavored to make her life what it should be with the energy of an ardent , aspiring nature ; and through all experiences , sweet or bitter , all varying moods , successes and defeats , a sincere desire for happiness the best and highest , was the little rushlight of her soul that never wavered or went out . 
She never had known friendship in its truest sense , for next to love it is the most abused of words . 
She had called many `` friend , '' but was still ignorant of that sentiment , cooler than passion , warmer than respect , more just and generous than either , which recognizes a kindred spirit in another , and claiming its right , keeps it sacred by the wise reserve that is to friendship what the purple bloom is to the grape , a charm which once destroyed can never be restored . 
Love she had desired , yet dreaded , knowing her own passionate nature , and when it came to her , making that brief holiday the fateful point of her life , she gave herself to it wholly . 
Before that time she had rejoiced over a more tranquil pleasure , and believed that she had found her friend in the neighbor who after long absence had returned to his old place . 
Sylvia soon felt the power and beauty of this nature , and remembering how well he had ministered to a physical affliction , often looked into the face whose serenity was a perpetual rebuke , longing to ask him to help and heal the mental ills that perplexed and burdened her . 
But while he served he learned to love her , for Sylvia , humble in her own conceit , and guarded by the secret passion that possessed her , freely showed the regard she felt , with no thought of misapprehension , no fear of consequences . 
Unconscious that such impulsive demonstration made her only more attractive , that every manifestation of her frank esteem was cherished in her friend 's heart of hearts , and that through her he was enjoying the blossom time of life . 
So peacefully and pleasantly the summer ripened into autumn and Sylvia 's interest into an enduring friendship . 
Drawncurtains shut out the frosty night , the first fire of the season burned upon the hearth , and basking in its glow sat Sylvia , letting her thoughts wander where they would . 
As books most freely open at pages oftenest read , the romance of her summer life seldom failed to unclose at passages where Warwick 's name appeared . 
It now returned to her so freshly that she seemed to hear again the evening sounds , to feel the warm , fern-scented wind blow over her , to see the strong hand offered helpfully , and with an impulse past control she stretched her own to that visionary Warwick as the longing of her heart found vent in an eager `` Come ! '' 
A voice replied , a hand pressed hers , and springing up she saw , not Adam , but Moor , standing beside her with a beaming face . 
Concealing the thrill of joy , the pang of pain he had brought her , she greeted him cordially , and reseating herself , instinctively tried to turn the current of her thoughts . 
The broken dream had left tokens of its presence in the unwonted warmth of Sylvia 's manner ; Moor felt it , and for a moment did not answer . 
Much of her former shyness had crept over her of late ; she sometimes shunned him , was less free in conversation , less frank in demonstration , and once or twice had colored deeply as she caught his eye upon her . 
These betrayals of Warwick 's image in her thoughts seemed to Moor the happy omens he had waited eagerly to see , and each day his hope grew more assured . 
He had watched her unseen while she was busied with her mental pastime , and as he looked his heart had grown unspeakably tender , for never had her power over him been so fully felt , and never had he so longed to claim her in the name of his exceeding love . 
`` You are thinking of something new and pleasant to tell me , I hope , -- something in keeping with this quiet place and hour , '' said Sylvia , glancing up at him with the traitorous softness still in her eyes . 
She folded her hands together on her knee , turned her face attentively to his , and unwittingly composed herself to listen to the sweet story so often told , and yet so hard to tell . 
Moor meant to woo her very gently , for he believed that love was new to her . 
He went to her , knelt down upon the cushion at her feet , and lifting to her a face flushed and fervent with the ardor of a man 's first love , said impetuously -- `` Sylvia , read it here ! '' 
There was no need for her to look ; act , touch , and tone told the story better than the most impassioned speech . 
The supplication of his attitude , the eager beating of his heart , the tender pressure of his hand , dispelled her blindness in the drawing of a breath , and showed her what she had done . 
Now neglected warnings , selfish forgetfulness , and the knowledge of an unconscious but irremediable wrong frightened and bewildered her ; she hid her face and shrunk back trembling with remorse and shame . 
Moor , seeing in her agitation only maiden happiness or hesitancy , accepted and enjoyed a blissful moment while he waited her reply . 
It was so long in coming that he gently tried to draw her hands away and look into her face , whispering like one scarcely doubtful of assent -- `` You love me , Sylvia ? '' 
With a quick gesture he put down her hands and looked at her . 
Grief , regret , and pity , filled her face with trouble , but no love was there . 
`` Sylvia , do you understand me ? '' 
Softly she spoke , remorseful she looked , but the words wounded like a blow . 
He fixed on her a glance of mingled incredulity , reproach , and pain , and said , like one bent on ending suspense at once -- `` Did you not see that I loved you ? 
Sylvia , I thought you too simple and sincere for heartless coquetry . '' 
Sylvia spoke in a paroxysm of remorseful sorrow . 
Moor listened with a sinking heart , and when she dropped her face into her hands again , unable to endure the pale expectancy of his , he turned away , saying with an accent of quiet despair -- `` Then I have worked and waited all this summer to see my harvest fail at last . 
Oh , Sylvia , I so loved , so trusted you . '' 
To Sylvia it was doubly hard , for now her blindness seemed as ineredible as cruel ; her past frankness unjustifiable ; her pleasure selfish ; her refusal the blackest ingratitude , and her dream of friendship forever marred . 
In the brief pause that fell , every little service he had rendered her , rose freshly in her memory ; every hour of real content and genuine worth that he had given her , seemed to come back and reproach her ; every look , accent , action , of both happy past and sad present seemed to plead for him . 
Her conscience cried out against her , her heart overflowed with penitence and pity . 
She looked at him , longing to say something , do something that should prove her repentance , and assure him of the affection which she felt . 
As she looked , two great tears fell glittering to the hearth , and lay there such eloquent reproaches , that , had Sylvia 's heart been hard and cold as the marble where they shone , it would have melted then . 
She could not bear it , she went to him , took in both her own the rejected hand that hung at his side , and feeling that no act could too tenderly express her sorrow , lifted it to her lips and softly kissed it . 
An instant she was permitted to lay her cheek against it as a penitent child mutelyy imploring pardon might have done . 
Then it broke from her hold , and gathering her to himself , Moor looked up exclaiming with renewed hope , unaltered longing -- `` You do care for me , then ? 
Ah , Sylvia , you are capricious even in your love . '' 
She could not answer , for if that first No had been hard to utter , this was impossible . 
It seemed like turning the knife in the wound , to disappoint the hope that had gathered strength from despair , and she could only lay her head down on his breast , weeping the saddest tears she had ever shed . 
`` Dear Sylvia , I have tried so hard to make you love me how could you help it ? '' 
The reason sprung to her lips , but maiden pride and shame withheld it . 
What could she tell except that she had cherished a passion , based only on a look . 
She had deceived herself in her belief that Moor was but a friend , might she not also have deceived herself in believing Warwick was a lover ? 
She could not own this secret , its betrayal could not alter her reply , nor heal Moor 's wound , but the thought of Warwick strengthened her . 
It always did , as surely as the influence of his friend always soothed her , for one was an embodiment of power , the other of tenderness . 
`` Geoffrey , let me be true to you and to myself , '' she said , so earnestly that it gave weight to her broken words . 
Let me keep it , Sylvia ; let me wait and work again . 
she sighed . 
Was it , Sylvia ? '' 
She looked up at him , showed him that though her cheeks were wet there was no rosy dawn of passion there ; though her eyes were as full of affection as of grief , there was no shy avoidance of his own , no dropping of the lids , lest they should tell too much ; and though his arm encircled her , she did not cling to him as loving women cling when they lean on the strength which , touched by love , can both cherish and sustain . 
A long sigh broke from his lips , and , turning from her the eyes that had so wistfully searched and found not , they went wandering drearily hither and thither as if seeking the hope whose loss made life seem desolate . 
Sylvia saw it , groaned within herself , but still held fast to the hard truth , and tried to make it kinder . 
Softly , seriously , she spoke , but the words sounded cold to him ; friendship seemed so poor now , love so rich , he could not leave the blessed sunshine which transfigured the whole earth and sit down in the little circle of a kindly fire without keen regret . 
Sylvia , for five years I have longed and waited for a home . 
Sylvia was about to speak , but the sound of an approaching step brought over her the shyness she had not felt before , and without a word she darted from the room . 
Alone in her chamber Sylvia searched herself . 
She pictured the life that would be hers with Moor . 
The clock struck ten , and after lingering a little Sylvia went down . 
Slowly , because her errand was a hard one ; thoughtfully , because she knew not where nor how she could best deliver it . 
Alone in the hall , absently smoothing a little silken shawl she often wore , and waiting with a melancholy patience that smote her to the heart He went to meet her , took both her hands in his , and looked into her face so tenderly , so wistfully ! 
-- `` Sylvia , is it good night or good by ? '' 
Her eyes filled , her hands trembled , her color paled , but she answered steadily -- `` Forgive me ; it is good by . '' 
`` Anothergift for you , Sylvia . 
Sylvia tore off the wrapper , lifted a cover , and exclaimed with pleasure , though it was the simplest present she had received that day . 
Presently a thought came to Sylvia ; in a moment the mystery seemed to grow delightfully clear , and she said to herself with a glow of joy , `` This is so like Adam I know he sent it . '' 
And fearing that she had betrayed herself , Sylvia hurried across the room to put the holly in water . 
To such an one went Sylvia and Mark that night , the brother looking unusually blithe and debonair , because the beloved Jessie had promised to be there if certain aunts and uncles would go away in time ; the sister in a costume as pretty as appropriate , for snow and holly made her a perfect Yule . 
Sylvia loved dancing , and knew `` wall flowers '' only by sight ; therefore she was busy ; her lover 's gift shone greenly in bosom hair , and fleecy skirts ; therefore she was beautiful , and the thought that Adam had not forgotten her lay warm at her heart ; therefore she was supremely happy . 
Mark roamed away , and finding a cool corner Sylvia watched the animated scene before her till her wandering glance was arrested by the sight of a new comer , and her mind busied with trying to recollect where she had seen him . 
The slender figure , swarthy face , and vivacious eyes all seemed familiar , but she could find no name for their possessor till he caught her eye , when he half bowed and wholly smiled . 
Then she remembered , and while still recalling that brief interview one of their young hosts appeared with the stranger , and Gabriel André was duly presented . 
Sylvia was in the mood to be pleased with everybody , everything , and was unusually gracious as they merrily pursued the subject suggested by his question . 
`` I did not know -- perhaps he did not wish it -- '' began Sylvia , folding one hand tightly in the other , with a quick breath and a momentary sensation as if some one had struck her in the face . 
Sylvia bowed , and standing before her with an air half mannish , half boyish , Gabriel went on in the low , rapid tone peculiar to him . 
But Sylvia took no heed of his petulance , she only kept her eyes fixed upon him with an intentness which he mistook for interest . 
If Sylvia could have doubted the unexpected revelation , this last trait was so like Warwick it convinced her at once . 
Though the belief to which she had clung so long was suddenly swept from under her , she floated silently with no outward sign of shipwreck as her hope went down . 
Pride was her shield , and crowding back all other emotions she kept herself unnaturally calm behind it till she was alone . 
If Gabriel had been watching her he would only have discovered that she was a paler blonde than he had thought her ; that her address was more coldly charming than before ; and that her eye no longer met his , but rested steadily on the folded fan she held . 
He was not watching her , however , but glancing frequently over her head at something at the far end of the rooms which a crowd of assiduous gentlemen concealed . 
His eye wandered , but his thoughts did not ; for still intent on the purpose that seemed to have brought him to her , he said , as if reluctant to be importunate , yet resolved to satisfy himself -- `` Pardon me that I so poorly entertain you , and let me ask one other question in Ottila 's name . 
If he had proposed to waltz over a precipice Sylvia felt as if she could have accepted , provided there was time to ask a question or two before the crash came . 
A moment afterward Mark was surprised to see her floating round the room on the arm of `` the olive-colored party , '' whom he recognized at once . 
cried Sylvia , stopping abruptly . 
asked Sylvia , glancing at her companion 's gloomy face . 
Gabriel 's dark face kindled as he spoke , and Sylvia drearily wished he would remember how ill-bred it was to tire her with complaints of her friend , and raptures over his cousin . 
He seemed to perceive this , turned a little haughty at her silence , and when he spoke was all the stranger again . 
He seated her and went upon his errand . 
She wascool now ; weary-footed , sick at heart , and yearning to be alone . 
Till her brother came she knew she must bear it , and make no sign . 
She did bear it , drank the water with a smile , danced the dance with spirit , and bore up bravely till Mark appeared . 
She was alone just then , and his first words were -- `` Have you seen her ? '' 
Sylvia looked , saw the handsomest woman in Havana , and hated her immediately . 
It was but natural , for Sylvia was a very human girl , and Ottila one whom no woman would love , however much she might admire . 
Sylvia possessed no knowledge that could analyze for her the sentiment which repelled , even while it attracted her toward Warwick 's betrothed . 
That he loved her she did not doubt , because she felt that even his pride would yield to the potent fascination of this woman . 
As Sylvia looked , her feminine eye took in every gift of face and figure , every grace of attitude or gesture , every daintiness of costume , and found no visible flaw in Ottila , from her haughty head to her handsome foot . 
Yet , when her scrutiny ended , the girl felt a sense of disappointment , and no envy mingled with her admiration . 
As she stood , forgetting to assume interest in the camellias before her , she saw Gabriel join his cousin , saw her pause and look up at him with an anxious question . 
He answered it , glancing toward that part of the room where she was standing . 
Ottila 's gaze was fixed upon her instantly ; a rapid , but keen survey followed , and then the lustrous eyes turned away with such supreme indifference , that Sylvia 's blood tingled as if she had received an insult . 
`` Mark , I am going home , '' she said , abruptly . 
When safe in her own room Sylvia 's first act was to take off the holly wreath , for her head throbbed with a heavy pain that forbade hope of sleep that night . 
Looking at the little chaplet so happily made , she saw that all the berries had fallen , and nothing but the barbed leaves remained . 
A sudden gesture crushed it in both her hands , and standing so , she gathered many a scattered memory to confirm that night 's discovery . 
It was not love she saw in his eyes the night they parted , but pity . 
He read her secret before that compassionate glance revealed it to herself , and he had gone away to spare her further folly . 
She had deceived herself , had blindly cherished a baseless hope , and this was the end . 
Even for the nameless gift she found a reason , with a woman 's skill , in self-torture . 
Moor had met Adam , had told his disappointment , and still pitying her Warwick had sent the pretty greeting to console her for the loss of both friend and lover . 
This thought seemed to sting her into sudden passion . 
As if longing to destroy every trace of her delusion , she tore away the holly wreaths and flung them in the fire ; took down the bow and arrow Warwick had made her from above the étagère , where she had arranged the spoils of her happy voyage , snapped them across her knee and sent them after the holly ; followed by the birch canoe , and every pebble , moss , shell , or bunch of headed grass he had given her then . 
The osier basket was not spared , the box went next , and even the wrapper was on its way to immolation , when , as she rent it apart , with a stern pleasure in the sacrifice it was going to complete , from some close fold of the paper hitherto undisturbed a card dropped at her feet . 
She caught it up and read in handwriting almost as familiar as her own : `` To Sylvia , -- A merry Christmas and best wishes from her friend , Geoffrey Moor . '' 
The word `` friend '' was underscored , as if he desired to assure her that he still cherished the only tie permitted him , and sent the green token to lighten her regret that she could give no more . 
Warm over Sylvia 's sore heart rushed the tender thought and longing , as her tears began to flow . 
Sylvia was proud , with that pride which is both sensitive and courageous , which can not only suffer but wring strength from suffering . 
While she struggled with a grief and shame that aged her with their pain , she asked no help , made no complaint ; but when the forbidden passion stretched its arms to her , she thrust it back and turned to pleasure for oblivion . 
Those who knew her best were troubled and surprised by the craving for excitement which now took possession of her , the avidity with which she gratified it , regardless of time , health , and money . 
All day she hurried here and there , driving , shopping , sight-seeing , or entertaining guests , at home . 
Night brought no cessation of her dissipation , for when balls , masquerades , and concerts failed , there still remained the theatre . 
This soon became both a refuge and a solace , for believing it to be less harmful than other excitements , her father indulged her new whim . 
But , had she known it , this was the most dangerous pastime she could have chosen . 
Calling for no exertion of her own , it left her free to passively receive a stimulant to her unhappy love in watching its mimic semblance through all phases of tragic suffering and sorrow , for she would see no comedies , and Shakespeare 's tragedies became her study . 
A black melancholy fell upon her , and energy deserted soul and body . 
She found it a weariness to get up in the morning and weariness to lie down at night . 
She no longer cared even to seem cheerful , owned that she was spiritless , hoped she should be ill , and did not care if she died to-morrow . 
When this dark mood seemed about to become chronic she began to mend , for youth is wonderfully recuperative , and the deepest wounds soon heal even against the sufferer 's will . 
A quiet apathy replaced the gloom , and she let the tide drift her where it would , hoping nothing , expecting nothing , asking nothing but that she need not suffer any more . 
She lived fast ; all processes with her were rapid ; and the secret experience of that winter taught her many things . 
She believed it had only taught her to forget , for now the outcast love lay very still , and no longer beat despairingly against the door of her heart , demanding to be taken in from the cold . 
She fancied that neglect had killed it , and that its grave was green with many tears . 
Alas for Sylvia ! 
how could she know that it had only sobbed itself to sleep , and would wake beautiful and strong at the first sound of its master 's voice . 
He got no farther in his protest against this unexpected freak of fortune , for Sylvia seized the paper and read the paragraph aloud with such happy emphasis amid Prue 's outcries and his father 's applause , that Mark began to feel that he really had done something praiseworthy , and that the `` daub '' was not so despicable after all . 
Three hours afterward he appeared to Sylvia as she sat sewing alone , and startled her with the mysterious announcement . 
She might well ask , for Mark was dancing all over the carpet in a most extraordinary style , and only stopped long enough to throw a little case into Sylvia 's lap , asking as a whole faceful of smiles broke loose -- `` What does that mean ? '' 
She opened it , and a suspicious circlet of diamonds appeared , at sight of which she clapped her hands , and cried out -- `` You 're going to ask Jessie to wear it ! '' 
Sylvia chased him into a corner and held him there , almost as much excited as he , while she demanded a full explanation , which he gave her , laughing like a boy , and blushing like a girl . 
When shall I see a joyful sweetheart doing this on his own behalf , Sylvia ? '' 
Sylvia was just turning in her walk , and as she came musing down the room , Moor saw her well . 
With some women dress has no relation to states of mind ; with Sylvia it was often an indication of the mental garb she wore . 
Moor remembered this trait , and saw in both countenance and costume the change that had befallen her in his long absence . 
Her face was neither gay nor melancholy , but serious and coldly quiet , as if some inward twilight reigned . 
Her dress , a soft , sad grey , with no decoration but a knot of snowdrops in her bosom . 
On these pale flowers her eyes were fixed , and as she walked with folded arms and drooping head , she sang low to herself -- `` Sylvia ! '' 
Very gentle was the call , but she started as if it had been a shout , looked an instant while light and color flashed into her face , then ran to him exclaiming joyfully -- `` Oh , Geoffrey ! 
There could be but one answer to such a welcome , and Sylvia received it as she stood there , not weeping now , but smiling with the sincerest satisfaction , the happiest surprise . 
He drank a deep draught gratefully , then , fearing that it might be as suddenly withdrawn , asked anxiously -- `` Sylvia , are we friends or lovers ? '' 
She looked up as she spoke , and her face betrayed that a conflict between desire and doubt was going on within her . 
Impulse had sent her there , and now it was so sweet to know herself beloved , she found it hard to go away . 
Her brother 's happiness had touched her heart , roused the old craving for affection , and brought a strong desire to fill the aching void her lost love had left with this recovered one . 
Sylvia had not learned to reason yet , she could only feel , because , owing to the unequal development of her divided nature , the heart grew faster than the intellect . 
Instinct was her surest guide , and when she followed it unblinded by a passion , unthwarted by a mood , she prospered . 
But now she was so blinded and so thwarted , and now her great temptation came . 
`` Then you havelearned to love me , Sylvia ? '' 
`` Stay , Sylvia . 
`` I am sure of myself , and satisfied with you , as you are no wiser , no better , nothing but my Sylvia . '' 
When Moor went that night Sylvia followed him , and as they stood together this happy moment seemed to recall that other sad one , for taking her hands again he asked , smiling now -- `` Dear , is it good night or good by ? '' 
Sylvia as yet found nothing to regret , for so gently was she taught , the lesson could not seem hard , and when her affection remained unchanged in kind , although it deepened in degree , she said within herself -- `` That strong and sudden passion was not true love , but an unwise , unhappy delusion of my own . 
She tried heartily to forget herself in others , unconscious that there are times when the duty we owe ourselves is greater than that we owe to them . 
Mark was in a frenzy to be married , but had set his heart on a double wedding , and Sylvia would not fix the time , always pleading -- `` Let me be quite sure of myself before I take this step , and do not wait . '' 
Sylvia promised to think of it , but gave no decided answer , for though she would hardly own it to herself she longed to remain free till June was past . 
It came and went without a sign , and July began before the longing died a sudden death , and she consented to be married . 
Mark and Jessie came in from the city one warm morning and found Sylvia sitting idly in the hall . 
She left her preparations all to Prue , who revelled in such things , and applied herself diligently to her lesson as if afraid she might not learn it as she should . 
Half way up stairs Mark turned and said , laughing -- `` Sylvia , I saw Searle to-day , -- one of the fellows whom we met on the river last summer , -- and he began to tell me something about André and the splendid cousin , who is married and gone abroad it seems . 
Sylvia , you are a perfect darling ! 
Away flew Jessie to proclaim the glad tidings , and Sylvia , with a curious expression of relief , regret , and resolve , repeated to herself that decided -- `` I will . '' 
Every one took care that Miss Caprice should not have time to change her mind . 
Mr. Yule fled from the din of women 's tongues , the bridegrooms were kept on a very short allowance of bride , and Sylvia and Jessie were almost invisible , for milliners and mantua-makers swarmed about them till they felt like animated pin-cushions . 
The last evening came at length , and Sylvia was just planning an escape into the garden when Prue , whose tongue wagged as rapidly as her hands worked , exclaimed -- `` How can you stand staring out of window when there is so much to do ? 
Sylvia sat down , tugged on one boot and fell into a reverie with the other in her hand , while Prue clacked on like a wordmill in full operation . 
Here Sylvia came out of her reverie with a sigh that was almost a groan . 
Fortunately it was nearly full , but her appearance was decidedly ludicrous as she sat with the collar in one uplifted hand , the hose in the other , and the ball dress laid over her lap like a fainting lady ; while she said , with imploring solemnity , which changed abruptly from the pathetic to the comic at the end of her speech -- `` Sylvia , if I ever cherished a wish in this world of disappointment , it is that your wedding shall have nothing peculiar about it , because every friend and relation you 've got expects it . 
Prue paused to extract the appropriate figure of speech which she had chosen , and Sylvia said -- `` If we have everything else as you wish it , would you mind if we did n't go the journey ? '' 
It was Prue 's turn to groan now , and she did so dismally . 
But Sylvia had never asked a favor in vain , and this was not the moment to refuse to her anything , so worldly pride yielded to sisterly affection , and Prue said with resignation , as she fell to work more vigorously than ever , because she had wasted five good minutes -- `` Do as you like , dear , you shall not be crossed on your last day at home . 
Before Sylvia could thank her sister there came a tap and a voice asking -- `` Might I come in ? '' 
`` May I borrow Sylvia for a little while ? 
A breath of air will do her good , and I want her bright and blooming for to-morrow , else young Mrs. Yule will outshine young Mrs. Moor . '' 
Take her and welcome , only pray put on a shawl , Sylvia , and do n't stay out late , for a bride with a cold in her head is the saddest of spectacles . '' 
Glad to be released Sylvia went away , and , dropping the shawl as soon as she was out of Prue 's sight , paced up and down the garden walks upon her lover 's arm . 
Tell me , Sylvia , for if ever there should be confidence between us it is now . '' 
Such an emotion came to Sylvia then , and another temptation , wearing the guise of generosity , urged her to another false step , for when the first is taken a second inevitably follows . 
He did not see her face , he only heard her quiet voice . 
He had no thought of Adam , whom she had known so short a time , who was already bound ; he only fancied that she spoke of some young lover who had touched her heart , and while he smiled at the nice sense of honor that prompted the innocent confession , he said , with no coldness , no curiosity in voice or face -- `` No need to tell it , dear . 
He looked down at her as she went beside him , thinking that of all the brides he had ever seen his own looked least like one . 
`` I always thought that you would make a very ardent lover , Sylvia . 
`` Yes , '' she said , and thinking of the solemn promises to be then made , she added , thoughtfully , `` I think I love , I know I honor , I will try to obey . 
That Sylvia was innocently deceiving both her lover and herself , by wrapping her friendship in the garb her lost love had worn , forgetting that the wanderer might return and claim its own , leaving the other to suffer for the borrowed warmth . 
`` See , Sylvia , our honeymoon has risen . '' 
Sylviawas awakened on her wedding morning by a curious choking sound , and starting up found Prue crying over her as if her heart were broken . 
Prue took Sylvia in her arms , and rocking to and fro as if she were still a baby , poured forth a stream of words and tears together . 
My little Sylvia , I 've been neglectful of so many things , and now I see them all ; I 've fretted you with my ways , and have n't been patient enough with yours ; I 've been selfish even about your wedding , and it wo n't be as you like it ; you 'll reproach me in your heart , and I shall hate myself for it when you are gone never to be my care and comfort any more . 
This unexpected demonstration from her prosaic sister touched Sylvia more than the most sentimental lamentations from another . 
You must n't grieve over me , or think I shall forget you , for you never shall be forsaken ; and very soon I shall be back , almost as much your Sylvia as ever . 
Sylvia went from room to room bidding them good by as the child who had played there so long . 
But each looked unfamiliar in its state and festival array , and the old house seemed to have forgotten her already . 
She spent an hour with her father , paid Mark a little call in the studio where he was bidding adieu to the joys of bachelorhood , and preparing himself for the jars of matrimony by a composing smoke , and then Prue claimed her . 
But Sylvia bore it patiently as a last sacrifice , because her sister was very tender-hearted still , and laughed and cried over her work till all was done , when she surveyed the effect with pensive satisfaction . 
Too tired to care what happened just then , Sylvia sat as she was placed , feeling like a fashion-plate of a bride , and wishing she could go to sleep Presently the sound of steps as fleet as Mark 's but lighter , waked her up , and forgetting orders , she rustled to the door with an expression which fashion-plates have not yet attained . 
But they seemed to have changed characters , for Moor 's usually tranquil face was full of pale excitement ; Sylvia 's usually vivacious one , full of quietude , and her eyes wore the unquestioning content of a child who accepts some friendly hand , sure that it will lead it right . 
`` Then it shall be the first duty of my life to keep you so , '' and with a gesture soft yet solemn , Sylvia laid her hand in his , as if endowing him with both gift and giver . 
Moor turned paler still , and Sylvia felt his heart beat hard against her hand . 
She , herself was seized with a momentary desire to run away and say `` No '' again ; Mark looked as if nerving himself for immediate execution , and Jessie feebly whispered -- `` Oh , Clara , I 'm going to faint ! '' 
For mercy sake do something , Sylvia , and do n't stand there looking as if you 'd been married every day for a year . '' 
At Sylvia 's desire , Mark was married first , and as she stood listening to the sonorous roll of the service falling from the Bishop 's lips , she tried to feel devout and solemn , but failed to do so . 
As she stood regarding the scene with dignified amazement , her eye met Sylvia 's . 
But Sylvia drew the little marplot close to her with a warning word , and there she stayed , quietly amusing herself with `` pooring '' the silvery dress , smelling the flowers and staring at the Bishop . 
Sylvia always had a very confused idea of what happened during the next hour . 
She remembered being kissed till her cheeks burned , and shaken hands with till her fingers tingled ; bowing in answer to toasts , and forgetting to reply when addressed by the new name ; trying to eat and drink , and discovering that everything tasted of wedding cake ; finding herself up stairs hurrying on her travelling dress , then down stairs saying good by ; and when her father embraced her last of all , suddenly realizing with a pang , that she was married and going away , never to be little Sylvia any more . 
Sylvia could not be otherwise than happy , for finding unbounded liberty and love her portion , she had nothing to regret , and regarded marriage as an agreeable process which had simply changed her name and given her protector , friend , and lover all in one . 
She was therefore her sweetest and sincerest self , miraculously docile , and charmingly gay ; interested in all she saw , and quite overflowing with delight when the last days of the week betrayed the secret that her destination was the mountains . 
Loving the sea so well , her few flights from home had given her only marine experiences , and the flavor of entire novelty was added to the feast her husband had provided for her . 
It came to her not only when she could enjoy it most , but when she needed it most , soothing the unquiet , stimulating the nobler elements which ruled her life by turns and fitting her for what lay before her . 
Choosing the quietest roads , Moor showed her the wonders of a region whose wild grandeur and beauty make its memory a life-long satisfaction . 
Day after day they followed mountain paths , studying the changes of an ever-varying landscape , watching the flush of dawn redden the granite fronts of these Titans scared with centuries of storm , the lustre of noon brood over them until they smiled , the evening purple wrap them in its splendor , or moonlight touch them with its magic ; till Sylvia , always looking up at that which filled her heart with reverence and awe , was led to look beyond , and through the medium of the friend beside her learned that human love brings us nearer to the Divine , and is the surest means to that great end . 
The crowning glory of the range was left until the last , and after a day of memorable delights Sylvia sat in the sunset feasting her eyes upon the wonders of a scene which is indescribable , for words have limits and that is apparently illimitable . 
Presently Moor came to her asking -- `` Will you join a party to the great ice palace , and see three acres of snow in August , worn by a waterfall into a cathedral , as white if not as durable as any marble ? '' 
Sylvia sat for half an hour , then wearied by the immensity of the wide landscape she tried to rest her mind by examining the beauties close at hand . 
Strolling down the path the sight-seers had taken , she found herself in a rocky basin , scooped in the mountain side like a cup for a little pool , so clear and bright it looked a diamond set in jet . 
But he only held her closer , and laughed such a happy laugh that Sylvia felt the truth before he uttered it . 
Sylvia , I know much that has passed . 
`` Adam , you are both right and wrong , -- you do not know all , -- let me tell you , '' -- began Sylvia , as these proofs of ignorance brought her to herself with a shock of recollection and dismay . 
But Warwick was as absolute in his happiness as he had been in his self-denial , and took possession of her mentally as well as physically with a despotism too welcome and entire to be at once resisted . 
Sylvia let him keep her , feeling that he had earned that small reward for a year 's endeavor , resolving to grant all now left her to bestow , a few moments more of blissful ignorance , then to show him his loss and comfort him , sure that her husband would find no disloyalty in a compassion scarcely less deep and self-forgetful than his own would have been had he shared their secret . 
Only pausing to place himself upon the seat she had left , Warwick put off her hat , and turning her face to his regarded it with such unfeigned and entire content her wavering purpose was fixed by a single look . 
Then as he began to tell the story of the past she forgot everything but the rapid words she listened to , the countenance she watched , so beautifully changed and softened , it seemed as if she had never seen the man before , or saw him now as we sometimes see familiar figures glorified in dreams . 
In the fewest , kindest words Warwick told her of Ottila , the promise and the parting ; then , as if the dearer theme deserved less brevity , he lingered on it as one lingers at a friend 's door , enjoying in anticipation the welcome he is sure awaits him . 
-- that night I suspected that Geoffrey loved you , Sylvia , and was glad to think it . 
You never seemed a child to me , Sylvia , because you have an old soul in a young body , and your father 's trials and temptations live again in you . 
My Sylvia , that was love , and when it came to me I took it in , sure that whether its fruition was granted or denied I should be a manlier man for having harbored it even for an hour . 
She let him lay it on his shoulder , still feeling that Moor was one to look below the surface of these things and own that she did well in giving so pure a love a happy moment before its death , as she would have cherished Warwick had he laid dying . 
Sylvia , had there been one ray of self-consciousness in those steady eyes of yours , one atom of maiden shame , or fear , or trouble , I should have claimed you as my own . 
Sylvia , take this presumptuous and domineering devil out of me in time , lest I blunder as blindly after you are mine as I have before . 
He bent to give her tender greeting , but Sylvia arrested him . 
He thought it was some maidenly scruple , and though he smiled at it he respected it , for this same coyness in the midst of all her whims had always been one of her attractions in his eye . 
You must not fear me , Sylvia , else I shall grow tyrannical ; for I hate fear , and like to trample on whatever dares not fill its place bravely , sure that it will receive its due as trustfully as these little mosses sit among the clouds and find a spring to feed them even in the rock . 
She had done her best , but had I been still heart-free I never could have married her . 
She is one of those tameless natures which only God can govern ; I dared not , even when I thought I loved her , for much as I love power I love truth more . 
I told her this , heard prayers , reproaches , threats , and denunciations ; tried to leave her kindly , and then was ready for my fate with you . 
Now Sylvia , are your doubts all answered , your fears all laid , your heart at rest on mine ? '' 
As the time drew nearer Sylvia 's task daunted her . 
Warwick was so confident , so glad and tender over her , it seemed like pronouncing the death doom to say those hard words , `` It is too late . '' 
While she struggled to find some expression that should tell all kindly yet entirely , Adam , seeming to read some hint of her trouble , asked , with that gentleness which now overlaid his former abruptness , and was the more alluring for the contrast -- `` Have I been too arrogant a lover ? 
Sylvia , have I misunderstood the greeting you have given me ? '' 
She freed herself entirely from his hold and held up her hand before him . 
He did not see the ring ; he thought she gave him all he asked , and with a glow of gratitude extended both his own to take it . 
Then she saw that delay was worse than weak , and though she trembled she spoke out bravely ending his suspense at once . 
He sprung up as if shot through the heart , nor could a veritable bullet from her hand have daunted him with a more intense dismay than those three words . 
An instant 's incredulity , then conviction came to him , and he met it like a man , for though his face whitened and his eye burned with an expression that wrung her heart , he demanded steadily . 
This was the hardest question of all , for well she knew the name would wound the deeper for its dearness , and while it lingered pitifully upon her lips its owner answered for himself . 
Warwick knew it instantly , felt the hard truth but rebelled against it , and put out his arm as if to ward it off as he exclaimed , with real anguish in countenance and voice -- `` Oh , Sylvia ! 
Then , as if all strength had gone out of her , she dropped down upon the mossy margin of the spring and covered up her face , feeling that the first sharpness of a pain like this was not for human eyes to witness . 
How many minutes passed she could not tell , the stillness of the spot remained unbroken by any sound but the whisper of the wind , and in this silence Sylvia found time to marvel at the calmness which came to her . 
Self had been forgotten in surprise and sympathy , and still her one thought was how to comfort Warwick . 
She had expected some outburst of feeling , some gust of anger or despair , but neither sigh nor sob , reproach nor regret reached her , and soon she stole an anxious glance to see how it went with him . 
He was standing where she left him , both hands locked together till they were white with the passionate pressure . 
Sylvia could not bear it , and remembering that her confession had not yet been made , seized that instant for the purpose , prompted by an instinct which assured her that the knowledge of her pain would help him to bear his own . 
She told him all , and ended saying -- `` Now , Adam , come to me and let me try to comfort you . '' 
Sylvia was right ; for through the sorrowful bewilderment that brought a brief eclipse of hope and courage , sympathy reached him like a friendly hand to uphold him till he found the light again . 
While speaking , she had seen the immobility that frightened her break up , and Warwick 's whole face flush and quiver with the rush of emotions controllable no longer . 
But the demonstration which followed was one she had never thought to see from him , for when she stretched her hands to him with that tender invitation , she saw the deep eyes fill and overflow . 
Then he threw himself down before her , and for the first time in her short life showed her that sad type of human suffering , a man weeping like a woman . 
Against the former he had been struggling dumbly till Sylvia 's words had turned the tide , and too entirely natural to feel a touch of shame at that which is not a weakness but a strength , too wise to reject so safe an outlet for so dangerous a grief , he yielded to it , letting the merciful magic of tears quench the fire , wash the first bitterness away , and leave reproaches only writ in water . 
It was better so , and Sylvia acknowledged it within herself as she sat mute and motionless , softly touching the brown hair scattered on the moss , her poor consolation silenced by the pathos of the sight , while through it all rose and fell the fitful echo of the horn , in very truth `` a sweet reminder not to stray away and lose herself . '' 
But now she let it soar and sigh half heard , for audible to her alone still came its sad accompaniment of bitter human tears . 
To Warwick it was far more ; for music , the comforter , laid her balm on his sore heart as no mortal pity could have done , and wrought the miracle which changed the friend who seemed to have robbed him of his love to an unconscious Orpheus , who subdued the savage and harmonized the man . 
`` I amcomforted , Sylvia , rest assured of that . 
Bending , he gathered her to an embrace as different from that other as despair is from delight , and while he held her there , crowding into one short minute , all the pain and passion of a year , she heard a low , but exceeding bitter cry -- `` Oh , my Sylvia ! 
Clouds were trooping eastward , but in that pause the sun glanced full on Warwick 's figure , lifting his powerful head into a flood of light , as he waved his hand to Sylvia with a gesture of courage and good cheer . 
The look , the act , the memories they brought her , made her heart ache with a sharper pang than pity , and filled her eyes with tears of impotent regret , as she turned her head as if to chide the blithe clamor of the horn . 
When she looked again , the figure and the sunshine were both gone , leaving her alone and in the shadow . 
I seem to have a great deal of bad weather in my life , '' answered Sylvia , despondingly . 
Sylvia 's face brightened , for the fancy pleased her , and she wanted something new and pleasant to divert her thoughts from herself . 
Glancing at her dress , which was unusually matronly in honor of the occasion , she said smiling -- `` I do n't look much like a child , but I should like to try and feel like one again if I can . '' 
His cheerfulness was so infectious , that Sylvia already began to forget her gloom , and hurried away to do her part . 
Putting on a short , girlish gown , kept for scrambles among the rocks , she improvised a pinafore , and braided her long hair a la Morlena Kenwigs , with butterfly bows at the ends . 
When she went down , she found her husband in garden jacket , collar turned over a ribbon , hair in a curly tumble , and jackknife in hand , seated on the rug before a roaring fire , and a semicircle of apples , whittling and whistling like a very boy . 
Putting dignity and broadcloth aside makes you look about eighteen , and very charming I find you , '' said Sylvia , looking about twelve herself , and also very charming . 
Sylvia pricked chestnuts , and began to forget her bosom trouble as she wondered what would appear with the impatient curiosity appropriate to the character she had assumed . 
Presently her husband reappeared with much breeziness of aspect , rain drops in his hair , and a squirming bundle in his arms . 
Sylvia received her lovely plaything with enthusiasm , and Tilly felt herself suddenly transported to a baby 's Paradise , where beds were unknown and fruit and freedom were her welcome portion . 
Sylvia sung every jubilant air she knew , Moor whistled astonishing accompaniments , and Tilly danced over the carpet with nut-shells on her toes , and tried to fill her little gown with `` pitty flowers '' from its garlands and bouquets . 
`` Quite merry , thank you ; and I should think I was little Sylvia again but for the sight of this . '' 
With a gravity that touched her more than the bestowal of so dear a relic , Moor unslung a signet ring from his watchguard , and with some difficulty pressed it to its place on Sylvia 's finger , a most effectual keeper for that other ring whose tenure seemed so slight . 
She shrunk a little and glanced up at him , because his touch was more firm than tender , and his face wore a masterful expression seldom seen there ; for instinct , subtler than perception , prompted both act and aspect . 
Then her eye fell and fixed upon the dark stone with the single letter engraved upon its tiny oval , and to her it took a double significance as her husband held it there , claiming her again , with that emphatic `` Mine . '' 
She did not speak , but something in her manner caused the fold between his brows to smooth itself away as he regarded the small hand lying passively in his , and said , half playfully , half earnestly -- `` Forgive me if I hurt you , but you know my wooing is not over yet ; and till you love me with a perfect love I can not feel that my wife is wholly mine . '' 
Something brought tears into her eyes and made her lips tremble , but in a breath the smile came back , and she added gayly -- `` How can I help being grave sometimes , and getting thin , with so many housekeeping cares upon my shoulders , and such an exacting , tyrannical husband to wear upon my nerves . 
She did not certainly as she shook the popper laughingly , and looked over her shoulder at him , with the bloom of fire-light on her cheeks , its cheerfulness in her eyes . 
For Moor , armed with the wooden fork , did the honors ; Sylvia , leaning on her arm , dropped corn after corn into a baby mouth that bird-like always gaped for more ; and Tilly lay luxuriously between them , warming her little feet as she ate and babbled to the flames . 
Sylvia , this our cousin , Faith here is your new kinswoman . 
With well bred oblivion of the short gown and long braids of her bashful-looking hostess , Miss Dane suggested and discussed various subjects of mutual interest , while Sylvia tried to keep her eyes from wandering to the mirror opposite , which reflected the figures of her husband and his friend . 
Every sense being unwontedly alert , Sylvia found herself listening to both guests at once , and bearing her own part in one conversation so well that occasional lapses were only attributed to natural embarrassment . 
What she and Miss Dane said she never remembered ; what the other pair talked of she never forgot . 
The first words she caught were her husband 's . 
Sylvia lost the next words , for a look showed her Moor 's hand on Adam 's shoulder , and that for the first time within her memory Warwick did not meet his friend 's glance with one as open , but bent his eyes upon the ground , while his hand went to and fro across his lips as if to steady them . 
It was a gesture she remembered well , for though self-control could keep the eye clear , the voice firm , that half-hidden mouth of his sometimes rebelled and grew tremulous as a woman 's . 
Sylvia , come here , and tell Adam he is welcome ; he dares to doubt it . 
He leaned forward as he spoke , with an eager yet submissive look , that Sylvia dared not meet , and in her anxiety to preserve her self-possession , she forgot that to this listener every uttered word became a truth , because his own were always so . 
To Warwick , Sylvia seemed almost careless , her words a frivolous answer to the real meaning of his question , her smile one of tranquil welcome . 
Her manner wrought an instant change in him , and when he spoke again he was the Warwick of a year ago . 
This speech , delivered with frosty gravity , made Sylvia as cool and quiet as itself . 
She put her ally down , looked full at Warwick , and said with a blending of dignity and cordiality which even the pinafore could not destroy -- `` Please to consider yourself a specially invited guest , now and always . 
The old keenness was in his eye , the old firmness about the mouth , the old satirical smile on his lips as Warwick presented the seat , with an inclination that to her seemed ironical . 
She sat down , but when she cast about her mind for some safe and easy topic to introduce , every idea had fled ; even memory and fancy turned traitors ; not a lively sally could be found , not a pleasant remembrance returned to help her , and she sat dumb . 
and Sylvia looked and spoke like her old self again . 
He wrapt the child closer in his arms , leaned his dark head on the bright one , and took the little feet into his hand with a fatherly look that caused Tilly to pat his cheek and begin an animated recital of some nursery legend , which ended in a sudden gape , reminding Sylvia that one of her guests was keeping late hours . 
Warwick kissed the rosy half-open mouth and seemed loth to part with the pious baby , for he took the shawl Sylvia brought and did up the drowsy bundle himself . 
While so busied she stole a furtive glance at him , having looked without seeing before . 
Thinner and browner , but stronger than ever was the familiar face she saw , yet neither sad nor stern , for the grave gentleness which had been a fugitive expression before now seemed habitual . 
Those who themselves are quick to suffer , are also quick to see the marks of suffering in others ; that hasty scrutiny assured Sylvia of all she had yearned to know , yet wrung her heart with a pity the deeper for its impotence . 
`` I win the applause , Sylvia ; for I sustain my character to the end , while you give up before the curtain falls . 
Sylvia 's smile was sadder than her tears as she briefly answered -- `` No , I find I can not be a child again . '' 
Oneof Sylvia 's first acts when she rose was most significant . 
Usually Sylvia ran to join him , but now she stood musing on the steps , until he saw and came to her . 
As he offered the flower always ready for her , he said smiling -- `` Did the play last night so captivate you , that you go back to the curls , because you can not keep the braids ? '' 
Sylvia , I want to tell you something about Adam . 
Sylvia , it would have made your heart ache to have seen his face , as he said in that brief way of his -- `` Geoffrey , the woman I loved is married , ask me nothing more . '' 
Sylvia , I should like to see that woman ; though I could find it in my heart to hate her for her perfidy to such a man . '' 
Sylvia 's head was bent as if to inhale the sweetness of the flower she held , and all her husband saw was the bright hair blowing in the wind . 
`` I pity her for her loss as well as hate her . 
In pursuance of his kindly plan , Moor took Adam out for a long tramp soon after breakfast , and Sylvia and Miss Dane sat down to sew . 
In the absence of the greater fear , Sylvia soon forgot the lesser one , and began to feel at ease , to study her new relative and covet her esteem . 
Looking at her , one felt assured that here was a right womanly woman , gentle , just , and true ; possessed of a well-balanced mind , a self-reliant soul , and that fine gift which is so rare , the power of acting as a touchstone to all who approached , forcing them to rise or fall to their true level , unconscious of the test applied . 
Sylvia saw and felt these things with the quickness of her susceptible temperament , and found herself so warmed and won , that soon it cost her an effort to withhold anything that tried or troubled her , for Faith was a born consoler , and Sylvia 's heart was full . 
However gloomy her day might have been she always brightened in the evening as naturally as moths begin to flutter when candles come . 
On the evening of this day the friendly atmosphere about her , and the excitement of Warwick 's presence so affected her , that though the gayety of girlhood was quite gone she looked as softly brilliant as some late flower that has gathered the summer to itself and gives it out again in the bloom and beauty of a single hour . 
Sylvia left Prue and Jessie to enjoy Faith , and while she fabricated some trifle with scarlet silk and an ivory shuttle , she listened to the conversation of the gentlemen who roved about the room till a remark of Prue 's brought the party together . 
`` Sylvia , how can you excuse her in that way ? 
Much to Sylvia 's surprise Adam appeared to like the subject , and placed his views at Prue 's disposal with alacrity . 
Warwick spoke , and spoke urgently , for the effect of all this upon Sylvia was too absorbing a study to be relinquished yet . 
As he turned to her , Faith gave him an intelligent glance , and answered like one speaking with intention and to some secret but serious issue -- `` You shall have them . 
asked Adam , still intent upon his purpose , for , though he looked steadily at Faith , he knew that Sylvia drove the shuttle in and out with a desperate industry that made her silence significant to him . 
Reading the truth in the keen delight the instant brought her , Sylvia cried out within herself , `` Oh , Geoffrey , forgive me , for I love him ! '' 
Geoffrey , I put the case to you ; if Sylvia should find she adored Julian Haize , who fell sick when she was married , you know , and should inform you of that agreeable fact some fine day , should you think it quite reasonable and right to say , `` Go , my dear , I 'm very sorry , but it ca n't be helped . '' 
But Sylvia held her breath while waiting for her husband 's answer . 
He was standing behind her chair , and spoke with the smile still on his lips , too confident to harbor even a passing fancy . 
I love but few , and those few are my world ; so do not try me too hardly , Sylvia . '' 
She dropped her shuttle as she spoke , and stooping to pick it up , down swept the long curls over either cheek ; thus , when she fell to work again , nothing of her face was visible but a glimpse of forehead , black lashes and faintly smiling mouth . 
But Sylvia worked silently , and Warwick still leaned there watching the busy hand as if he saw something more than a pretty contrast between the white fingers and the scarlet silk . 
The library was still lighted , and standing there alone he saw Sylvia , wearing an expression that startled him . 
Both hands pushed back and held her hair away as if she scorned concealment from herself . 
Her eyes seemed fixed with a despairing glance on some invisible disturber of her peace . 
All the light and color that made her beautiful were gone , leaving her face worn and old , and the language of both countenance and attitude was that of one suddenly confronted with some hard fact , some heavy duty , that must be accepted and performed . 
Sylvia felt something like terror in the presence of this penetrating eye , this daring will , for the vigilance was unflagging and unobtrusive , and with all her efforts she could not read his heart as she felt her own was being read . 
Adam could act no part , but bent on learning the truth for the sake of all , he surmounted the dangers of the situation by no artifice , no rash indulgence , but by simply shunning solitary interviews with Sylvia as carefully as the courtesy due his hostess would allow . 
But the instant the family group fell apart and Moor 's devotion to his cousin left Sylvia alone , Warwick was away into the wood or out upon the sea , lingering there till some meal , some appointed pleasure , or the evening lamp brought all together . 
Sylvia understood this , and loved him for it even while she longed to have it otherwise . 
Much as Sylvia had longed to see these friends , she counted the hours of their stay , for the presence of one was a daily disquieting , because spirits would often flag , conversation fail , and an utter weariness creep over her when she could least account for or yield to it . 
More than once during that week she longed to lay her head on Faith 's kind bosom and ask help . 
Deep as was her husband 's love it did not possess the soothing power of a woman 's sympathy , and though it cradled her as tenderly as if she had been a child , Faith 's compassion would have been like motherly arms to fold and foster . 
But friendly as they soon became , frank as was Faith 's regard for Sylvia , earnest as was Sylvia 's affection for Faith , she never seemed to reach that deeper place where she desired to be . 
Always when she thought she had found the innermost that each of us seek for in our friend , she felt that Faith drew back , and a reserve as delicate as inflexible barred her approach with chilly gentleness . 
This seemed so foreign to Faith 's nature that Sylvia pondered and grieved over it till the belief came to her that this woman , so truly excellent and loveworthy , did not desire to receive her confidence , and sometimes a bitter fear assailed her that Warwick was not the only reader of her secret trouble . 
`` Sylvia , while I help our cousin to select and fasten up the books and prints she likes to take with her , will you run down into the garden and fill your prettiest basket with our finest grapes ? 
Glad to be away , Sylvia ran through the long grape walk to its sunniest nook , and standing outside the arch , began to lay the purple clusters in her basket . 
Only a moment was she there alone ; Warwick 's shadow , lengthened by the declining sun , soon fell black along the path . 
He did not see her , nor seem intent on following her ; he walked slowly , hat in hand , so slowly that he was but midway down the leafy lane when Faith 's voice arrested him . 
She was in haste , as her hurried step and almost breathless words betrayed ; and losing not an instant , she cried before they met -- `` Adam , you will come with me ? 
Faith 's hand had been on Warwick 's arm ; as he spoke the last words she bent her head upon it for an instant , then without another word turned and hurried back as rapidly as she had come , while Warwick stood where she left him , motionless as if buried in some absorbing thought . 
All had passed in a moment , a moment too short , too full of intense surprise to leave Sylvia time for recollection and betrayal of her presence . 
Half hidden and wholly unobserved she had seen the unwonted agitation of Faith 's countenance and manner , had heard Warwick 's softly spoken answers to those eager appeals , and with a great pang had discovered that some tender confidence existed between these two of which she had never dreamed . 
Sudden as the discovery was its acceptance and belief ; for , knowing her own weakness , Sylvia found something like relief in the hope that a new happiness for Warwick had ended all temptation , and in time perhaps all pain for herself . 
Impulsive as ever she leaned upon the seeming truth , and making of the fancy a fact , passed into a perfect passion of self-abnegation , thinking , in the brief pause that followed Faith 's departure -- `` This is the change we see in him ; this made him watch me , hoping I had forgotten , as I once said and believed . 
Full of her generous purpose , yet half doubtful how to execute it , Sylvia stepped from the recess where she had stood , and slowly passed toward Warwick , apparently intent on settling her fruity burden as she went . 
At the first sound of her light step on the gravel he turned , feeling at once that she must have heard , and eager to learn what significance that short dialogue possessed for her . 
Only a hasty glance did she give him as she came , but it showed him flushed cheeks , excited eyes , and lips a little tremulous as they said -- `` These are for Faith ; will you hold the basket while I cover it with leaves ? '' 
He took it , and as the first green covering was deftly laid , he asked , below his breath -- `` Sylvia , did you hear us ? '' 
To his unutterable amazement she looked up clearly , and all her heart was in her voice , as she answered with a fervency he could not doubt -- `` Yes ; and I was glad to hear , to know that a nobles woman filled the place I can not fill . 
Down fell the basket at their feet , and taking her face between his hands , Warwick bent and searched with a glance that seemed to penetrate to her heart 's core . 
For a moment she struggled to escape , but the grasp that held her was immovable . 
She tried to oppose a steadfast front and baffle that perilous inspection , but quick and deep rushed the traitorous color over cheek and forehead with its mute betrayal . 
She tried to turn her eyes away , but those other eyes , dark and dilated with intensity of purpose , fixed her own , and the confronting countenance wore an expression which made its familiar features look awfully large and grand to her panic-stricken sight . 
A sense of utter helplessness fell on her , courage deserted her , pride changed to fear , defiance to despair ; as the flush faded , the fugitive glance was arrested and the upturned face became a pale blank , ready to receive the answer that strong scrutiny was slowly bringing to the light , as invisible characters start out upon a page when fire passes over them . 
Spent as with an hour 's excitement , and bewildered by emotions which she could no longer master , Sylvia lingered in the grape walk till her husband called her . 
Then hastily refilling her basket , she shook her hair about her face and went to bid Faith good by . 
Moor was to accompany her to the city , and they left early , that Faith might pause for adieux to Mark and Prudence . 
Moor spoke to Sylvia , but busied in fastening the basketlid , she seemed not to hear , and Faith replied for her . 
When Faith embraced Sylvia , all the coldness had melted from her manner , and her voice was tender as a mother 's as she whispered low in her ear -- `` Dear child , if ever you need any help that Geoffrey can not give , remember cousin Faith . '' 
For two hours Sylvia sat alone , not idle , for in the first real solitude she had enjoyed for seven days she looked deeply into herself , and putting by all disguises owned the truth , and resolved to repair the past if possible , as Faith had counselled in the case which she had now made her own . 
Like so many of us , Sylvia often saw her errors too late to avoid committing them , and failing to do the right thing at the right moment , kept herself forever in arrears with that creditor who must inevitably be satisfied . 
She had been coming to this decision all that weary week , and these quiet hours left her both resolute and resigned . 
As she sat there while the early twilight began to gather , her eye often turned to Warwick 's travelling bag , which Faith , having espied it ready in his chamber , had brought down and laid in the library , as a reminder of her wish . 
As she looked at it , Sylvia 's heart yearned toward it in the fond , foolish way which women have of endowing the possessions of those they love with the attractions of sentient things , and a portion of their owner 's character or claim upon themselves . 
A pair of gloves lay beside it on the chair , and though she longed to touch anything of his , she resisted the temptation till , pausing near them in one of her journeys to the window , she saw a rent in the glove that lay uppermost , -- that appeal was irresistible , -- `` Poor Adam ! 
Standing ready to drop her work at a sound , Sylvia snatched a brief satisfaction which solaced her more than an hour of idle lamentation , and as she kissed the glove with a long , sad kiss , and put it down with eyes that dimly saw where it should be , perhaps there went as much real love and sorrow into that little act as ever glorified some greater deed . 
Then she went to lie in the `` Refuge , '' as she had named an ancient chair , with her head on its embracing arm . 
Not weeping , but quietly watching the flicker of the fire , which filled the room with warm duskiness , making the twilight doubly pleasant , till a sudden blaze leaped up , showing her that her watch was over and Warwick come . 
She had not heard him enter , but there he was close before her , his face glowing with the frosty air , his eye clear and kind , and in his aspect that nameless charm which won for him the confidence of whosoever read his countenance . 
Scarce knowing why , Sylvia felt reassured that all was well , and looked up with more welcome in her heart than she dared betray in words . 
May I sit here before I go , and warm myself at your fire , Sylvia ? '' 
Sure of his answer he established himself on the stool at her feet , stretched his hands to the grateful blaze , and went on with some inward resolution lending its power and depth to his voice . 
`` Faith has gone , but Geoffrey hopes to keep you for another week , '' said Sylvia , ignoring the unsafe topic . 
There was such compassion in his voice , such affection in his eye , such fostering kindliness in the touch of the hand he laid upon her own , that Sylvia cried within herself , -- `` Oh , if Geoffrey would only come ! '' 
and hoping for that help to save her from herself , she hastily replied -- `` You are mistaken , Adam , -- my life is easier than I deserve , -- my husband makes me very -- '' `` Miserable , -- the truth to me , Sylvia . '' 
Warwick rose as he spoke , closed the door and came back wearing an expression which caused her to start up with a gesture of entreaty -- `` No no , I will not hear you ! 
He paused opposite her , leaving a little space between them , which he did not cross through all that followed , and with that look , inflexible yet pitiful , he answered steadily -- `` I mustspeak and you willhear me . 
But understand me , Sylvia . 
demanded Sylvia . 
Sylvia spoke passionately , roused to resistance by his manner and the turmoil of emotions warring within her . 
Sylvia , do you love your husband ? '' 
Will you do this , Sylvia ? '' 
I tell you , Sylvia , it were more merciful to murder him outright than to slowly wear away his faith , his peace , and love by a vain endeavor to perform as a duty what should be your sweetest pleasure , and what will soon become a burden heavier than you can bear . '' 
`` Oh , Sylvia ! 
His words fell cold on Sylvia 's ear , for with the inconsistency of a woman 's heart she thought he gave her up too readily , yet honored him more truly for sacrificing both himself and her to the principle that ruled his life and made him what he was . 
His seeming resignation steadied her , for now he waited her decision , while before he was only bent on executing the purpose wherein he believed salvation lay . 
She girded up her strength , collected her thoughts , and tried to show him what she believed to be her duty . 
She was so earnest , yet so humble ; so weak in all but the desire to do well ; so young to be tormented with such fateful issues , and withal so steadfast in the grateful yet remorseful tenderness she bore her husband , that though sorely disappointed and not one whit convinced , Warwick could only submit to this woman-hearted child , and love her with redoubled love , both for what she was and what she aspired to be . 
`` Sylvia , what would you have me do ? '' 
How strangely Ottila came back to him , and all the scenes he had passed through with her ! 
Yet , despite his pride in the loving little creature who put him from her that she might be worthy of him , one irrepressible lament swelled his heart and passed his lips -- `` Ah , Sylvia ! 
Sylvia answered with a perfect confidence in that integrity which even her own longing could not bribe -- `` Yes , Adam , but you will not say it , because feeling as I feel , you know I must not come to you . '' 
He did know it , and confessed his submission by folding fast the arms half opened for her , and standing dumb with the words trembling on his lips . 
It was so then , as Sylvia went to him ; for though she did not touch nor smile upon him , he felt her nearness ; and the parting assured him that its power bound them closer than the happiest union . 
In her face there shone a look half fervent , half devout , and her voice had no falter in it now . 
`` The good Lord bless and help you , Sylvia . '' 
She gave him both her hands , but though he only pressed them silently , that pressure nearly destroyed the victory she had won , for the strong grasp snapped the slender guard-ring Moor had given her a week ago . 
She heard it drop with a golden tinkle on the hearth , saw the dark oval , with its doubly significant character , roll into the ashes , and felt Warwick 's hold tighten as if he echoed the emphatic word uttered when the ineffectual gift was first bestowed . 
Superstition flowed in Sylvia 's blood , and was as unconquerable as the imagination which supplied its food . 
This omen startled her . 
It seemed a forewarning that endeavor would be vain , that submission was wisdom , and that the husband 's charm had lost its virtue when the stronger power claimed her . 
The desire to resist began to waver as the old passionate longing sprang up more eloquent than ever ; she felt the rush of a coming impulse , knew that it would sweep her into Warwick 's arms , there to forget her duty , to forfeit his respect . 
With the last effort of a sorely tried spirit she tore her hands away , fled up to the room which had never needed lock or key till now , and stifling the sound of those departing steps among the cushions of the little couch where she had wept away childish woes and dreamed girlish dreams , she struggled with the great sorrow of her too early womanhood , uttering with broken voice that petition oftenest quoted from the one prayer which expresses all our needs -- `` Lead me not into temptation , but deliver me from evil . '' 
Returning to his work after one of these pauses , he was a little startled to see Sylvia standing on the threshold of the door . 
Rising hastily to ask if she were ill , he stopped half way across the room , for , with a thrill of apprehension and surprise , he saw that she was asleep . 
Her eyes were open , fixed and vacant , her face reposeful , her breathing regular , and every sense apparently wrapt in the profoundest unconsciousness . 
Fearful of awakening her too suddenly , Moor stood motionless , yet full of interest , for this was his first experience of somnambulism , and it was a strange , almost an awful sight , to witness the blind obedience of the body to the soul that ruled it . 
For several minutes she remained where she first appeared . 
Then , as if the dream demanded action , she stooped , and seemed to take some object from a chair beside the door , held it an instant , kissed it softly and laid it down . 
Slowly and steadily she went across the room , avoiding all obstacles with the unerring instinct that often leads the sleepwalker through dangers that appall his waking eyes , and sat down in the great chair he had left , leaned her cheek upon its arm , and rested tranquilly for several minutes . 
Soon the dream disturbed her , and lifting her head , she bent forward , as if addressing or caressing some one seated at her feet . 
Involuntarily her husband smiled ; for often when they were alone he sat there reading or talking to her , while she played with his hair , likening its brown abundance to young Milton 's curling locks in the picture overhead . 
The smile had hardly risen when it was scared away , for Sylvia suddenly sprung up with both hands out , crying in a voice that rent the silence with its imploring energy -- `` No , no , you must not speak ! 
Her own cry woke her . 
Consciousness and memory returned together , and her face whitened with a look of terror , as her bewildered eyes showed her not Warwick , but her husband . 
This look , so full of fear , yet so intelligent , startled Moor more than the apparition or the cry had done , for a conviction flashed into his mind that some unsuspected trouble had been burdening Sylvia , and was now finding vent against her will . 
Anxious to possess himself of the truth , and bent on doing so , he veiled his purpose for a time , letting his unchanged manner reassure and compose her . 
she asked , trembling and shrinking as she dropped into her chair . 
Hoping to quiet her , he took his place on the footstool , and told her what had passed . 
At first , she listened with a divided mind , for so strongly was she still impressed with the vividness of the dream , she half expected Warwick to rise like Banquo , and claim the seat that a single occupancy seemed to have made his own . 
An expression of intense relief replaced that of fear , when she had heard all , and she composed herself with the knowledge that her secret was still hers . 
For , dreary bosom-guest as it was , she had not yet resolved to end her trial . 
`` What set you walking , Sylvia ? '' 
She leaned forward warming her hands in unconscious imitation of Adam , on the night which she had been recalling before she slept . 
Moor watched her with increasing disquiet ; for never had he seen her in a mood like this . 
She evaded his question , she averted her eyes , she half hid her face , and with a gesture that of late had grown habitual , seemed to try to hide her heart . 
Often had she baffled him , sometimes grieved him , but never before showed that she feared him . 
This wounded both his love and pride , and this fixed his resolution , to wring from her an explanation of the changes which had passed over her within those winter months , for they had been many and mysterious . 
As if she feared silence , Sylvia soon spoke again . 
Leaning on the arm of her chair he looked up wistfully , tenderly , as if inviting confidence , sueing for affection . 
The words , the look , smote Sylvia to the heart , and but for the thought , `` I have not tried long enough , '' she would have uttered the confession that leaped to her lips . 
Is it , Sylvia ? '' 
Will you go abroad , and forget this dismal home until its rest grows inviting , Sylvia ? '' 
`` No , Sylvia , you work too hard already ; you do everything with such vehemence you wear out your body before your will is weary , and that brings melancholy . 
He drew a chair before her , sat down , and looking at her with the masterful expression dominant in his face , asked briefly -- `` Sylvia , have I been tyrannical , unjust , unkind , since you came to me ? '' 
`` Sylvia , what stands between us ? '' 
Earnest as a prayer , brief as a command had been the question , instantaneous was the reply , as Sylvia knelt down before him , put back the veil that should never hide her from him any more , looked up into her husband 's face without one shadow in her own , and steadily told all . 
Moor started at the name , then leaned forward , breathless and intent , as if to seize the words before they left her lips ; words that recalled incidents and acts dark and unmeaning till the spark of intelligence fired a long train of memories and enlightened him with terrible rapidity . 
Blinded by his own devotion , the knowledge of Adam 's love and loss seemed gages of his fidelity ; the thought that he loved Sylvia never had occurred to him , and seemed incredible even when her own lips told it . 
She had been right in fearing the effect this knowledge would have upon him . 
As the truth broke over him , cold and bitter as a billow of the sea , she saw gathering in his face the still white grief and indignation of an outraged spirit , suffering with all a woman 's pain , with all a man 's intensity of passion . 
As she looked , Sylvia thanked heaven that Warwick was not there to feel the sudden atonement for an innocent offence which his friend might have exacted before this natural but unworthy temptation had passed by . 
`` Wait for me , '' and putting her away , Moor left the room . 
Suffering too much in mind to remember that she had a body , Sylvia remained where she was , and leaning her head upon her hands tried to recall what had passed , to nerve herself for what was to come . 
Her first sensation was one of unutterable relief . 
The long struggle was over ; the haunting care was gone ; there was nothing now to conceal ; she might be herself again , and her spirit rose with something of its old elasticity as the heavy burden was removed . 
A moment she enjoyed this hard-won freedom , then the memory that the burden was not lost but laid on other shoulders , filled her with an anguish too sharp to find vent in tears , too deep to leave any hope of cure except in action . 
She had performed the duty so long , so vainly delayed , and when the first glow of satisfaction passed , found redoubled anxiety , regret , and pain before her . 
Clear and hard the truth stood there , and no power of hers could recall the words that showed it to her husband , could give them back the early blindness , or the later vicissitudes of hope and fear . 
In the long silence that filled the room she had time to calm her perturbation and comfort her remorse by the vague but helpful belief which seldom deserts sanguine spirits , that something , as yet unseen and unsuspected , would appear to heal the breach , to show what was to be done , and to make all happy in the end . 
Where Moor went or how long he stayed Sylvia never knew , but when at length he came , her first glance showed her that pride is as much to be dreaded as passion . 
No gold is without alloy , and now she saw the shadow of a nature which had seemed all sunshine . 
She knew he was very proud , but never thought to be the cause of its saddest manifestation ; one which showed her that its presence could make the silent sorrow of a just and gentle man a harder trial to sustain than the hottest anger , the bitterest reproach . 
Wherein the alteration lay Sylvia could not tell , but over the whole man some subtle change had passed . 
Cold and quiet , he stood regarding her with a strange expression , as if endeavoring to realize the truth , and see in her not his wife but Warwick 's lover . 
Oppressed by the old fear , now augmented by a measureless regret , she could only look up at him feeling that her husband had become her judge . 
Yet as she looked she was conscious of a momentary wonder at the seeming transposition of character in the two so near and dear to her . 
Moor , from whom she would sooner have expected such demonstration , grew stormy first , then stern , as she once believed his friend would have done . 
She forgot that Moor 's pain was the sharper , his wound the deeper , for the patient hope cherished so long ; the knowledge that he never had been , never could be loved as he loved ; the sense of wrong that could not but burn even in the meekest heart at such a late discovery such an entire loss . 
Sylvia spoke first , not audibly , but with a little gesture of supplication , a glance of sorrowful submission . 
He answered both , not by lamentation or reproach , but by just enough of his accustomed tenderness in touch and tone to make her tears break forth , as he placed her in the ancient chair so often occupied together , took the one opposite , and sweeping a clear space on the table between them , looked across it with the air of a man bent on seeing his way and following it at any cost . 
`` Now Sylvia , I can listen as I should . '' 
Perhaps no sterner expiation could have been required of her than to sit there , face to face , eye to eye , and tell again that little history of thwarted love and fruitless endeavor . 
Excitement had given her courage for the first confession , now it was torture to carefully repeat what had poured freely from her lips before . 
But she did it , glad to prove her penitence by any test he might apply . 
Tears often blinded her , uncontrollable emotion often arrested her ; and more than once she turned on him a beseeching look , which asked as plainly as words , `` Must I go on ? '' 
When great drops rolled down her cheeks he dried them silently ; when she paused , he waited till she calmed herself ; and when she spoke he listened with few interruptions but a question now and then . 
Occasionally a sudden flush of passionate pain swept across his face , as some phrase , implying rather than expressing Warwick 's love or Sylvia 's longing , escaped the narrator 's lips , and when she described their parting on that very spot , his eye went from her to the hearth her words seemed to make desolate , with a glance she never could forget . 
Could you not foresee the end and dare to speak it , Sylvia ? '' 
Forgive me that I have kept you a prisoner so long ; take off the fetter I put on , and go , Sylvia . '' 
`` You can not , Sylvia . 
The desire broke from Sylvia 's lips involuntarily as she turned for strength to the strong soul that loved her . 
But it was like wind to smouldering fire ; a pang of jealousy wrung Moor 's heart , and he spoke out with a flash of the eye that startled Sylvia more than the rapid change of voice and manner . 
How Sylvia longed to speak ! 
She searched for some alleviating suggestion , some happier hope ; none came . 
Her eye turned imploringly to the pictured Fates above her as if imploring them to aid her . 
But they looked back at her inexorably dumb , and instinctively her thought passed beyond them to the Ruler of all fates , asking the help which never is refused . 
No words embodied her appeal , no sound expressed it , only a voiceless cry from the depths of a contrite spirit , owning its weakness , making known its want . 
She prayed for submission , but her deeper need was seen , and when she asked for patience to endure , Heaven sent her power to act , and out of this sharp trial brought her a better strength and clearer knowledge of herself than years of smoother experience could have bestowed . 
A sense of security , of stability , came to her as that entire reliance assured her by its all-sustaining power that she had found what she most needed to make life clear to her and duty sweet . 
With her face in her hands , she sat , forgetful that she was not alone , as in that brief but precious moment she felt the exceeding comfort of a childlike faith in the one Friend who , when we are deserted by all , even by ourselves , puts forth His hand and gathers us tenderly to Himself . 
Her husband 's voice recalled her , and looking up she showed him such an earnest , patient countenance , it touched him like an unconscious rebuke . 
The first tears she had seen rose to his eyes , and all the old tenderness came back into his voice , softening the dismissal which had been more coldly begun . 
He held the door for her , but as she passed Sylvia lifted her face for the good night caress without which she had never left him since she became his wife . 
She did not speak , but her eye humbly besought this token of forgiveness ; nor was it denied . 
Moor laid his hand upon her lips , saying , `` these are Adam 's now , '' and kissed her on the forehead . 
Such a little thing : But it overcame Sylvia with the sorrowful certainty of the loss which had befallen both , and she crept away , feeling herself an exile from the heart and home whose happy mistress she could never be again . 
`` Sylvia , I have gone away to Faith , because this proud , resentful spirit of mine must be subdued before I meet you . 
Sylvia had known many sad uprisings , but never a sadder one than this , and the hours that followed aged her more than any year had done . 
All day she wandered aimlessly to and fro , for the inward conflict would not let her rest . 
The house seemed home no longer when its presiding genius was gone , and everywhere some token of his former presence touched her with its mute reproach . 
She asked no counsel of her family , for well she knew the outburst of condemnation , incredulity , and grief that would assail her there . 
They could not help her yet ; they would only augment perplexities , weaken convictions , and distract her mind . 
When she was sure of herself she would tell them , endure their indignation and regret , and steadily execute the new purpose , whatever it should be . 
But Sylvia had grown wise in self-knowledge , timorous through self-delusion ; therefore the greater the freedom given her the more she hesitated to avail herself of it . 
The nobler each friend grew as she turned from one to the other , the more impossible seemed the decision , for generous spirit and loving heart contended for the mastery , yet neither won . 
She knew that Moor had put her from him never to be recalled till some miracle was wrought that should make her truly his . 
This renunciation showed her how much he had become to her , how entirely she had learned to lean upon him , and how great a boon such perfect love was in itself . 
Reason made her listen to many doubts which hitherto passion had suppressed . 
Would she never tire of his unrest ? 
Could she fill so large a heart and give it power as well as warmth ? 
And as she asked these questions , conscience , the monitor whom no bribe can tempt , no threat silence , invariably answered `` Yes . '' 
But chief among the cares that beset her was one that grew more burdensome with thought . 
By her own will she had put her liberty into another 's keeping ; law confirmed the act , gospel sanctioned the vow , and it could only be redeemed by paying the costly price demanded of those who own that they have drawn a blank in the lottery of marriage . 
Public opinion is a grim ghost that daunts the bravest , and Sylvia knew that trials lay before her from which she would shrink and suffer , as only a woman sensitive and proud as she could shrink and suffer . 
Once apply this remedy and any tongue would have the power to wound , any eye to insult with pity or contempt , any stranger to criticise or condemn , and she would have no means of redress , no place of refuge , even in that stronghold , Adam 's heart . 
All that dreary day she wrestled with these stubborn facts , but could neither mould nor modify them as she would , and evening found her spent , but not decided . 
Too excited for sleep , yet too weary for exertion , she turned bedward , hoping that the darkness and the silence of night would bring good counsel , if not rest . 
Till now she had shunned the library as one shuns the spot where one has suffered most . 
But as she passed the open door the gloom that reigned within seemed typical of that which had fallen on its absent master , and following the impulse of the moment Sylvia went in to light it with the little glimmer of her lamp . 
Nothing had been touched , for no hand but her own preserved the order of this room , and all household duties had been neglected on that day . 
The old chair stood where she had left it , and over its arm was thrown the velvet coat , half dressing-gown , half blouse , that Moor liked to wear at this household trysting-place . 
Sylvia bent to fold it smoothly as it hung , and feeling that she must solace herself with some touch of tenderness , laid her cheek against the soft garment , whispering `` Good night . '' 
Something glittered on the cushion of the chair , and looking nearer she found a steel-clasped book , upon the cover of which lay a dead heliotrope , a little key . 
It was Moor 's Diary , and now she understood that passage of the note which had been obscure before . 
She had often begged to read it , threatened to pick the lock , and felt the strongest curiosity to learn what was contained in the long entries that he daily made . 
Her requests had always been answered with the promise of entire possession of the book when the year was out . 
He thought she would come to this room first , would see her morning flower laid ready for her , and , sitting in what they called their Refuge , would draw some comfort for herself , some palliation for his innocent offence , from the record so abruptly ended . 
She took it , went away to her own room , unlocked the short romance of his wedded life , and found her husband 's heart laid bare before her . 
It was a strange and solemn thing to look so deeply into the private experience of a fellow being ; to trace the birth and progress of purposes and passions , the motives of action , the secret aspirations , the besetting sins that made up the inner life he had been leading beside her . 
Here , too , Sylvia saw her chameleon self , etched with loving care , endowed with all gifts and graces , studied with unflagging zeal , and made the idol of a life . 
More than once Sylvia laid her face into the book , and added her involuntary comment on some poem or passage made pathetic by the present ; and more than once paused to wonder , with exceeding wonder , why she could not give such genius and affection its reward . 
Had she needed any confirmation of the fact so hard to teach herself , this opening of his innermost would have given it . 
For while she bitterly grieved over the death-blow she had dealt his happy hope , it no longer seemed a possibility to change her stubborn heart , or lessen by a fraction the debt which she sadly felt could only be repaid in friendship 's silver , not love 's gold . 
All night she lay there like some pictured Magdalene , purer but as penitent as Correggio 's Mary , with the book , the lamp , the melancholy eyes , the golden hair that painters love . 
All night she read , gathering courage , not consolation , from those pages , for seeing what she was not showed her what she might become ; and when she turned the little key upon that story without an end , Sylvia the girl was dead , but Sylvia the woman had begun to live . 
Lying in the rosy hush of dawn , there came to her a sudden memory -- `` If ever you need help that Geoffrey can not give , remember cousin Faith . '' 
This was the hour Faith foresaw ; Moor had gone to her with his trouble , why not follow , and let this woman , wise , discreet , and gentle , show her what should come next ? 
The newly risen sun saw Sylvia away upon her journey to Faith 's home among the hills . 
She lived alone , a cheerful , busy , solitary soul , demanding little of others , yet giving freely to whomsoever asked an alms of her . 
Sylvia found the gray cottage nestled in a hollow of the mountain side ; a pleasant hermitage , secure and still . 
Sylvia illustrated this fact , then ; for , without hesitation or embarrassment , she entered Miss Dane 's door , called no servant to announce her , but went , as if by instinct , straight to the room where Faith sat alone , and with the simplest greeting asked -- `` Is Geoffrey here ? '' 
With no bustle of surprise or sympathy Faith put away her work , took off the hat and cloak , drew her guest beside her on the couch before the one deep window looking down the valley , and gently chafing the chilly hands in warm ones , said nothing more till Sylvia spoke . 
She was in earnest now , terribly so , but still Faith drew back , though her compassionate face belied her hesitating words . 
Despairing she spoke , disconsolate she looked , and Faith 's reluctance vanished . 
The maternal aspect returned , her voice resumed its warmth , her eye its benignity , and Sylvia was reassured before a word was spoken . 
Sit here , and tell me all your trouble , Sylvia ? '' 
Sylvia paled and trembled , as if the oracle she had invoked was an unanswerable voice pronouncing the inevitable . 
She watched Faith 's countenance a moment , groping for her meaning , failed to find it , and whispered below her breath -- `` Can I know why ? '' 
cried Sylvia , `` how I have honored Adam for that steadfastness , and how I have despised myself , because I could not be as wise and faithful in the earlier , safer sentiment I felt for Geoffrey . '' 
`` No , Sylvia , never . '' 
`` Dear Sylvia , you are an exceptional case in all respects , because an extreme one . 
Light and color flashed back into Sylvia 's face , and the glad eagerness of her voice was a pleasant sound to hear after the despairing accents gone before . 
Faith sighed , but answered fully , carefully , while the compassion of her look deepened as she spoke . 
`` You shall be a law to yourself , my brave Sylvia . 
I shall never marry Sylvia , even if I may , ' -- and with that paraphrase of words , whose meaning seemed to fit his need , he went away . 
Sylvia sat motionless looking out into the sunny valley , with eyes that saw nothing but the image of that beloved friend leaving her perhaps forever . 
Well she knew that with this man to see wasto do , and with a woful sense of deselation falling cold upon her heart , she felt that there was nothing more to hope for but a brave submission like his own . 
The power of choice was no longer left her , and the help she needed was bestowed by one who could decide against himself , inspired by a sentiment which curbed a strong man 's love of power , and made it subject to a just man 's love of right . 
Great examples never lose their virtue ; what Pompey was to Warwick that Warwick became to Sylvia , and in the moment of supremest sorrow she felt the fire of a noble emulation kindling within her from the spark he left behind . 
`` This , '' and she was gathered close while Faith confessed how hard her task had been by letting tears fall fast upon the head which seemed to have found its proper resting-place , as if despite her courage and her wisdom the woman 's heart was half broken with its pity . 
Faith often turned her lips to Sylvia 's forehead , brushed back her hair with a lingering touch , and drew her nearer as if it was very pleasant to see and feel the little creature in her arms . 
Sylvia lay there , tearless and tranquil ; thinking thoughts for which she had no words , and trying to prepare herself for the life to come , a life that now looked very desolate . 
Her eye still rested on the valley where the river flowed , the elms waved their budding boughs in the bland air , and the meadows wore their earliest tinge of green . 
But she was not conscious of these things till the sight of a solitary figure coming slowly up the hill recalled her to the present and the duties it still held for her . 
`` Hush , Sylvia , say anything but that , because it casts reproach upon your father . 
Faith went ; Sylvia heard the murmur of earnest conversation ; then steps came rapidly along the hall , and Moor was in the room . 
She rose involuntarily , but for a moment neither spoke , for never had they met as now . 
For the first time in her life Sylvia was truly beautiful , -- not physically , for never had she looked more weak and wan , but spiritually , as the inward change made itself manifest in an indescribable expression of meekness and of strength . 
`` I submit , Sylvia ; I can still hope and wait . '' 
It was not possible ; and though her heart grew heavier within her , Sylvia answered steadily -- `` No , Geoffrey , do not hope , do not wait ; forgive me and forget me . 
This invincible fidelity , so patient , so persistent , impressed the listener like a prophecy , disturbed her conviction , arrested the words upon her lips and softened them . 
She gave him comfort , but he robbed her of her own as he drew her to him , answering with a glance brighter than any smile -- `` Love is immortal , dear , and even in the ` beautiful eternity ' I shall still hope and wait . '' 
But Sylvia and her father followed Moor till his foot left the soil , and still lingered on the wharf to watch the steamer out of port . 
Mr. Yule was endeavoring to reply as cheerily , and Sylvia was gazing with eyes that saw very dimly through their tears , when both were aware of an instantaneous change in the countenance they watched . 
Something beyond themselves seemed to arrest Moor 's eye ; a moment he stood intent and motionless , then flushed to the forehead with the dark glow Sylvia remembered well , waved his hand to them and vanished down the cabin stairs . 
With one impulse the hands were taken ; Sylvia could not speak , her father could , and did approvingly -- `` Welcome , Warwick ; you are come to say good by to Geoffrey ? '' 
Unmindful of all else Warwick bent and took her to him as he gave the promise , seemed to put his whole heart into a single kiss and left her trembling with the stress of his farewell . 
She saw him cleave his way through the throng , leap the space left by the gangway just withdrawn , and vanish in search of that lost friend . 
Then she turned her face to her father 's shoulder , conscious of nothing but the fact that Warwick had come and gone . 
A cannon boomed , the crowd cheered , the last cable was flung off , and the steamer glided from her moorings with the surge of water and the waft of wind like some seamonster eager to be out upon the ocean free again . 
`` Look up , Sylvia ; she will soon pass from sight . '' 
Up she sprung , eyes clear now , nerves steady , faith strong . 
Leaning forward so utterly forgetful of herself , she would have fallen into the green water tumbling there below , had not her father held her fast . 
How slowly the minutes seemed to pass , how rapidly the steamer seemed to glide away , how heavily the sense of loss weighed on her heart as wave after wave rolled between her and her heart 's desire . 
`` Come down , Sylvia , it is giving yourself useless pain to watch and wait . 
She did not hear him , for as he spoke the steamer swung slowly round to launch itself into the open bay , and with a cry that drew many eyes upon the young figure with its face of pale expectancy , Sylvia saw her hope fulfilled . 
The old man did answer them enthusiastically , and Sylvia stretched her arms across the widening space as if to bring them back again . 
Theensuing half year seemed fuller of duties and events than any Sylvia had ever known . 
At first she found it very hard to live her life alone ; for inward solitude oppressed her , and external trials were not wanting . 
I always said how it would be , she was so peculiar . 
Sylvia felt this deeply , but received it as her just punishment , and bore herself so meekly that public opinion soon turned a somersault , and the murmur changed to -- `` Poor young thing ! 
As Hester Prynne seemed to see some trace of her own sin in every bosom , by the glare of the Scarlet Letter burning on her own ; so Sylvia , living in the shadow of a household grief , found herself detecting various phases of her own experience in others . 
She had joined that sad sisterhood called disappointed women ; a larger class than many deem it to be , though there are few of us who have not seen members of it . 
Undoubtedly Sylvia would have joined the melancholy chorus , and fallen to lamenting that ever she was born , had she not possessed a purpose that took her out of herself and proved her salvation . 
Intent on making her life a blessing , not a reproach to her father , she lived for him entirely . 
He had taken her back to him , as if the burden of her unhappy past should be upon his shoulders , the expiation of her faults come from him alone . 
Sylvia understood this now , and nestled to him so gladly , so confidingly , he seemed to have found again the daughter he had lost and be almost content to have her all his own . 
In the weeks that followed the departure of the friends , Sylvia discovered this and learned to know her father . 
No one was so much to her as he ; no one so fully entered into her thoughts and feelings ; for sympathy drew them tenderly together , and sorrow made them equals . 
Both Mr. Yule and Sylvia had desired this event , but hardly dared to expect it in spite of sundry propitious signs and circumstances . 
And having saluted the fair member , allowed it to help him rise ; when , after a few decorous endearments , he departed to papa , and the bride elect rushed up to Sylvia with the incoherent announcement -- `` My dearest child , I have accepted him ! 
`` Sit down , and tell me all about it , '' cried her sister . 
But Prue preferred to rock violently , and boggle down a seam as the best quietus for her fluttered nerves , while she told her romance , received congratulations , and settled a few objections made by Sylvia , who tried to play the prudent matron . 
`` Sylvia , how can you ! 
Sylvia commanded her countenance with difficulty , and went on with her maternal inquiries . 
No , Sylvia , I do n't care a particle . 
-- the coachman drinks ; the cook has tea-parties whenever she likes , and supports her brother 's family out of her perquisites , as she calls her bare-faced thefts ; the house maids romp with the indoor man , and have endless followers ; three old maids set their caps at him , and that hussy , -LRB- I must use a strong expression , -RRB- that hussy of a governess makes love to him before the children . 
Sylvia asked but one more question -- `` Now , seriously , do you love him very much ? 
Prue dropped her work , and hiding her face on Sylvia 's shoulder , answered with a plaintive sniff or two , and much real feeling -- `` Yes , my dear , I do . 
Miss Yule made a great sacrifice to the propricties by relinquishing her desire for a stately wedding , and much to Sylvia 's surprise and relief , insisted that , as the family was then situated , it was best to have no stir or parade , but to be married quietly at church and slip unostentatiously out of the old life into the new . 
Her will was law , and as the elderly bridegroom felt that there was no time to spare , and the measles continued to go about seeking whom they might devour , Prue did not keep him waiting long . 
Hardly had the excitement of this event subsided when another occurred to keep Sylvia from melancholy and bring an added satisfaction to her lonely days . 
Across the sea there came to her a little book , bearing her name upon its title-page . 
Quaintly printed , and bound in some foreign style , plain and unassuming without , but very rich within , for there she found Warwick 's Essays , and between each of these one of the poems from Moor 's Diary . 
Far away there in Switzerland they had devised this pleasure for her , and done honor to the woman whom they both loved , by dedicating to her the first fruits of their lives . 
`` Alpen Rosen '' was its title , and none could have better suited it in Sylvia 's eyes , for to her Warwick was the Alps and Moor the roses . 
Each had given her his best , and very proud was Sylvia of the little book , over which she pored day after day , living on and in it , eagerly collecting all praises , resenting all censures , and thinking it the one perfect volume in the world . 
This wonderful being absorbed both households , from grandpapa to the deposed sovereign Tilly , whom Sylvia called her own , and kept much with her ; while Prue threatened to cause a rise in the price of stationery by the daily and copious letters full of warning and advice which she sent , feeling herself a mother in Israel among her tribe of nine , now safely carried through the Red Sea of scarlatina . 
Happy faces made perpetual sunshine round the little Sylvia , but to none was she so dear a boon as to her young god-mother . 
Jessie became a trifle jealous of `` old Sylvia , '' as she now called herself , for she almost lived in baby 's nursery ; hurrying over in time to assist at its morning ablutions , hovering about its crib when it slept , daily discovering beauties invisible even to its mother 's eyes , and working early and late on dainty garments , rich in the embroidery which she now thanked Prue for teaching her against her will . 
He was thinking hopeful thoughts one day as he sat writing to Moor , whose faithful correspondent he had become , when Sylvia came in with one of the few notes she sent her husband while away . 
Her lips smiled , though in her eyes there lay a shadow which he could not comprehend , and her answer did not enlighten him , as she put her arm about his neck and laid her slip of paper in his hand . 
Silently Warwick opened it , showing not Sylvia 's face but that of an old woman , rudely drawn in sepia ; the brown tints bringing out the marked features as no softer hue could have done , and giving to each line a depth of expression that made the serious countenance singularly lifelike and attractive . 
`` But Sylvia , what of her , Adam ? '' 
`` Henceforth , Sylvia and Ottila are only fair illustrations of the two extremes of love . 
`` Yes ; you came for me , I stay for you , and Sylvia waits for both . '' 
`` She says nothing of me in this short , sweet note of hers ; '' and Warwick smoothed it carefully in his large hand , eyeing it as if he wished there were some little word for him . 
`` True , but in the few letters she has written there always comes a message to you , though you never write a line ; nor would you go to her now had she sent for you alone ; she knew that , and sends for me , sure that you will follow . '' 
`` Go , Geoffrey , Sylvia is waiting . '' 
The first excitement was now over , and Sylvia stood behind him tearless and tranquil , while Moor , looking like a man out of whom the sea had drenched both strength and spirit , leaned his weary head against her , trying to accept the great loss , enjoy the great gain which had befallen him . 
`` Sylvia , I have told you of the beautiful change which befell him in those last days , and now I see the same in you . 
Sylvia , for God 's sake , let there be no more delusion or deceit ! '' 
I will tell you ; I meant to do it at once , but it is so hard -- '' She turned her face away , and for a moment neither stirred . 
Then drawing his head to its former resting-place she touched it very tenderly , seeing how many white threads shone among the brown ; and as her hand went to and fro with an inexpressibly soothing gesture , she said , in a tone whose quietude controlled his agitation like a spell -- `` Long ago , in my great trouble , Faith told me that for every human effort or affliction there were two friendly helpers , Time and Death . 
`` Oh , Sylvia ! 
Sylvia , show it to me , if it must be . '' 
She only turned her face to him , only held up her transparent hand , and let him read the heavy truth . 
He clung to her with a desperate yet despairing hold , and she could only let the first passion of his grief have way , soothing and sustaining , while her heart bled and the draught was very bitter to her lips . '' 
`` Come to me , Sylvia ; let me keep you while I may . 
He did remember her , so thoughtfully , so tenderly , that her little story flowed on uninterrupted by sigh or sob ; and while he held his grief in check , the balm of submission comforted his sore heart . 
Sitting by him , sustaining and sustained , she told the history of the last six months , till just before the sending of the letter . 
She paused there a moment , then hurried on , gradually losing the consciousness of present emotion in the vivid memory of the past . 
Only a dream , a foreboding fancy , Sylvia ? '' 
`` Did you tell no one of this , Sylvia ? '' 
`` Did you go alone , Sylvia ? '' 
Sylvia , how did you bear it ? '' 
Mark and Jessie were absorbed in baby Sylvia , and Prue was gone . 
`` Heaven bless you for it , Sylvia . 
A restful expression came into her face , and a sigh of satisfaction proved how great was the relief of feeling that for once her heart had prompted her aright . 
Moor let her rest a little , then asked with a look more pathetic than his words -- `` What am I to you now ? 
Adam might have owned the glance she bent upon her husband , so clear , so steadfast was it ; but the earnestness was all her own , and blended with it a new strength that seemed a late compensation for lost love and waning life . 
`` One question more ; Sylvia , how long ? '' 
Sylvia had not known how to live , but now she proved that she did know how to die . 
So beautifully were the two made one , the winning girl , the deep-hearted woman , that she seemed the same beloved Sylvia , yet Sylvia strengthened , purified , and perfected by the hard past , the solemn present . 
Those about her felt and owned the unconscious power , which we call the influence of character , and which is the noblest that gives sovereignty to man or woman . 
Mark and Jessie brought their offering of love in little Sylvia 's shape , and the innocent consoler did her sweet work by making sunshine in a shady place . 
But Moor was all in all to Sylvia , and their friendship proved an abiding strength , for sorrow made it very tender , sincerity ennobled it , and the coming change sanctified it to them both . 
Very quiet was the pleasant room , with no sounds in it but the soft flicker of the fire , the rustle of Faith 's needle , and the subdued music of the voice that patiently went reading on , long after Sylvia 's eyes had closed , lest she should miss its murmur . 
For an hour she seemed to sleep , so motionless , so colorless , that her father , always sitting at her side , bent down at last to listen at her lips . 
The lips smiled , the eyes unclosed , and she looked up at him , with an expression as tender as tranquil . 
They will keep little Sylvia from making mistakes like mine , and the household joys and sorrows we have known together , will teach Mark to make his talent a delight to many , by letting art interpret nature . '' 
Her brother standing behind her stooped and kissed her , saying through his tears -- `` I shall remember , dear . '' 
Calm , with the calmness of a grief too deep for tears , and strong in a devout belief , Moor gave his testimony as she paused . 
There was no voice to answer now , but Sylvia felt that she would receive it very soon and was content . 
She laid her thin hand tenderly on his , that if her words should bring reproach , she might seem to share it with him . 
The room grew very still , and while those about her pondered her words with natural tears , Sylvia lay looking up at a lovely picture that seemed leaning down to offer her again the happiest memory of her youth . 
Mark had given it that day , and now when the longer , sadder voyage was nearly over , she regarded it with a tender pleasure . 
Moor , seen in shadow , leaned upon his hand , as if watching Sylvia , a quiet figure , full of grace and color , couched under the green arch . 
So long she lay forgetful of herself and all about her , that Moor saw she needed rest , for the breath fluttered on her lips , the flowers had fallen one by one , and her face wore the weary yet happy look of some patient child waiting for its lullaby . 
With a smile , a kiss for all , they saw her fold her arms about her husband 's neck , and lay down her head as if she never cared to lift it up again . 
The little journey was both a pleasure and pain to them , for each night the way seemed longer to Sylvia , and though the burden lightened the bearer grew more heavy-hearted . 
So , cradled on the heart that loved her best , Sylvia was gently carried to the end of her short pilgrimage , and when her husband laid her down the morning had already dawned . 
