`` Oh no , miss , that is Ellen 's ! '' 
`` I can ask her , '' replied the child ; `` but , '' she added in a lower tone as she was leaving the room , `` I guess she wo n't find it convenient to put that black girl into Ellen 's room . '' 
Lucy , however , notwithstanding her prediction , returned in a few moments to say that Miss Redwood 's request was granted ; `` and you may thank Ellen for it , '' she added , `` for mother would not hear to it till Ellen begged her . '' 
I shall take care to compensate your mother , and this Ellen too , for any favours they may grant me . 
`` Oh , Ellen , I care not for myself , say not a word ; this may be the Lord 's set time to call home the wanderer ; I will not shrink from the trial , if it was my last breath , I would spend it in setting her sin before her . '' 
`` Ellen you know not what you ask , '' replied the old woman , who seemed to gather strength and energy to obey what she regarded as a call of duty . 
Ellen , I will speak to her ; and if she is not dead to natural affection , the light of that pale still face will send my words home to her heart . '' 
In vain Ellen argued and entreated . 
Debby , roused at the near approach of the waggon , and again said , `` she did not know but she had been dosing ; '' and , listening to the bustle in the opposite apartment , `` what does all this mean ? '' 
said she ; `` I thought Ellen was fit to be trusted , is there no discretion in a young head ? '' 
Ellen opened the outer door for the two females , who entered dressed in the shaker uniform , only remarkable for its severe simplicity and elaborate neatness . 
As they entered , Ellen threw her arms around the younger sister , exclaiming in a tone of the tenderest concern , `` dear Emily , why did you not come sooner ? '' 
The elder sister grasped Ellen 's hand , `` Is it even so ? '' 
she said : she rightly interpreted Ellen 's silence and sadness : `` I foresaw , '' she continued , `` that our coming would be worse than in vain : '' then turning to her young companion , she said , `` put thy hand on thy mouth , and be still , my child . 
Emily followed her , but it seemed not without faltering , for Ellen had passed her arm around her , and appeared to sustain half her weight . 
Her face was as pale as marble , and as still . 
`` Pray speak to them , Mrs. Allen , '' whispered Ellen : `` yes , speak to them , '' said Debby , in a voice of authority ; `` what signifies it ! 
`` She is going clean distracted , '' whispered Debby to Ellen , `` you can do any thing with her ; make her hear to reason while she has any left , and get her to go out of the room with you . '' 
`` She has hit the nail on the head for once , '' whispered Debby to Ellen : `` and now Ellen , before they get into another snarl , do separate them . '' 
Ellen 's heart was full ; she felt for all the parties a very tender , and an almost equal interest ; and though she would have rejoiced in Emily 's renunciation of her errors , she did not probably regard the sincere adoption of them with the terror and despair which the grandmother felt . 
There was the eagerness and the authority of truth and goodness in Ellen 's voice , and manner , and words ; the spirit of love and of reconciliation ; and the troubled waters would have been laid at rest , for the raised eye of the old lady showed that true devotion was working at her heart ; and Susan looked on her acquiescingly and approvingly ; and Emily 's face shone with an expression of gratitude that her lips could not utter : but at this moment the outer door again opened , and Reuben Harrington , that one of `` the brethren , '' whom Debby had characterized as the `` master-devil , '' entered . 
Ellen renewed her entreaties that she would retire to her own room . 
No longer capable of resistance , she silently acquiesced , and Ellen conducted her to her bed , and watched over her , till she perceived that her wearied nature had sunk to repose . 
She then left her , and was softly closing the door , when she met Debby in the passage . 
inquired Ellen `` they must need rest more than I do . '' 
And , to tell you the truth , '' she added , in a lower tone , `` I suspect she is now afraid to trust Emily here any longer . 
`` I can not think , '' said Ellen , shaking her head doubtfully , `` that Emily has any attachment to James . 
`` But , Miss Deborah , '' asked Ellen , apparently still incredulous , `` was there any thing said that would warrant your conclusion ? '' 
` , But , '' said Ellen , `` Emily shall not go against her inclination . '' 
`` She is very good , certainly , '' said Ellen as if trying to discover the secret of Susan 's power . 
But come , Ellen , there is no use in our standing here paraphrasing the matter , do you go to bed and I 'll wait till this old vulture has done eating , and see them off , and then go back to the traveller 's room ; the laudanum has put him to sleep at last , and that is the best thing for him . '' 
Ellen assured Deborah , that she would comply with her wishes , after having made one effort to detain Emily . 
Ellen said , that if she could not persuade her to remain with them now , she might suggest some considerations that might weigh with her afterwards . 
Sanguine hope is the privilege of the young ; and Ellen began her expostulations with her ardour unimpaired by Debby 's suggestions . 
She appealed to Emily 's reason , and to her feelings for a long time , without producing any sensible effect . 
Ellen availed herself of this moment to ask Emily , at the same time placing her hand on the latch of the door that led into the apartment of the deceased , `` if she would not once more look upon her brother ? '' 
`` Oh , yes , '' said she , and for the first time instinctively obeying the impulse of her feelings , she darted through the door : Ellen closed it after her without following ; believing that at this moment , it was best to leave her to the unassisted workings of her natural affections . 
But Susan , as soon as she returned from laying her injunctions on Reuben 's reading what Ellen most wished , went to the door , and said as calmly as she was able , for her fears were increased by seeing James Lenox standing beside Emily , and eagerly addressing her , `` Come , my child , we wait for you , be not like a silly dove without heart ; take up your cross again , a full cross though it may be , and turn your back upon the world . '' 
Emily took an affectionate leave of Ellen ; and Susan , after having simply said , `` Farewell , '' turned and added , `` you meant well , Ellen -- I know you meant well ; but you have the voice of a charmer , and how should I be justified if I suffered this young child to be seduced from her obedience to the gospel ? '' 
`` Promise me , at least , '' said Ellen , `` that you will not constrain Emily to remain among you ; promise me that you will suffer her to see and hear from her friends . '' 
`` Ellen , '' replied Susan , in a tone of solemnity bordering on displeasure , `` we have neither dungeons , bolts , nor chains . 
`` I tell you , Ellen , '' she replied , `` I need not promise . 
`` God grant that she may be , '' said Ellen , in a suppressed voice ; and perceiving that she could gain nothing farther from the impracticable enthusiast , she relinquished her hand , which in her eagerness she had taken , and once more bidding farewell , they parted . 
The waggon drove away , and Ellen went to her own apartment , of which she would have been glad now to have been the sole tenant . 
She had been too much disturbed by the suffering of those she loved , to be able to compose herself to sleep ; and she sate down by an eastern window , to ponder on the various feelings of the heterogeneous group of mourners that Edward 's death had brought together . 
`` Oh , '' thought she , as she gazed at the fair stars in their `` quiet and orderly courses , '' and then at the clear still lake in whose depths their beautiful images seemed to sleep : `` why is it that all nature above us , and around is harmony , while we are left to such conflicts . 
Ellen 's reflections might have led her to a solution of the mystery , satisfactory to herself at least , but their chain was broken by an exclamation from Miss Redwood , who waking suddenly , exclaimed , `` good heavens , Miss what 's your name , are you up already ? 
Ellen smiled , but not thinking it important to explain the cause of her being up at an hour that Miss Redwood deemed so unseasonable , she let fall a neatly woven rush curtain , which sufficiently excluded the intrusion of the approaching day ; and , laying herself on her bed , she was soon in a sleep that Miss Redwood might have envied . 
She was arrayed with studied elegance ; Lilly stood on one side of her chair and a footman in livery on the other : the body of the deceased was on the opposite side of the room : next to it sate Mrs. Allen , and beside her , and supporting her , Ellen , who , in a simple white dress , her face beaming with tender sympathy , looked like the embodied spirit of religion . 
Next Ellen sate Mr. and Mrs. Lenox and their numerous family , all clad in mourning ; their sad looks suiting well with their badges of grief . 
Mrs. Allen rose from her chair , but even with Ellen 's aid was unable to move forward till doctor Bristol , advancing from the crowd , gave her the support of his stronger arm . 
`` She is right , '' whispered Doctor Bristol to Ellen . 
Mrs. Allen was led back to the house , attended by Ellen and doctor Bristol ; they passed through the apartment where Miss Redwood still maintained her station , and where she continued to gaze upon all that passed before her with the indifference with which she would have regarded the shifting scenes of a wearisome play : the Major approached her , and with awkward but well-meant civility , told her she would have a good chance now to look at the corpse , and , being she was a stranger , he would see her through the crowd himself `` Oh thank you , '' she replied disdainfully , `` I have no fancy for looking at dead people , and certainly I shall not look at one dead that I never saw living . '' 
I overheard her this morning saying to Mrs. Lenox , that Ellen was as much of a lady as that Caroliny gal , with all her flaunting ruffles and folderols . 
Ellen , she said , had been brought up to business ; but as to that useless piece , she could neither act nor transact . 
She says too , that , rather than have a fellow - cretertag round after her , as Lilly does after me , she would turn wild Indian . 
From the time the child , who had received the name of Ellen , could comprehend anything , Mrs. Allen had been in the habit of talking to her of her mother . 
Mrs. Allen felt the propriety of the child 's rebuke ; but besides that it is always grievous to see a bud so early torn from its parent stock , there were bitter recollections associated with the memory of Ellen 's mother , and especially with her death , that clouded Mrs. Allen 's brow whenever she spoke of her . 
Ellen experienced the holy ministration of which they are capable from her earliest years . 
Before she reasoned , she felt a relation to heaven ; her affections were set on things above . 
This shielded her innocence , and gave a tenderness and elevation to her character , as if the terrestrial had already put on the celestial . 
Her eyes , it is true , were tearful while she sate on her little bench at Mrs. Allen 's feet , and listened to the stories of her mother ; but the next moment she was playing with her kitten , or bounding away in pursuit of a butterfly -- so natural is it for the opening flower to shrink from a chilling influence , and expand to the sun beams . 
Ellen had been told by Mrs. Allen that she had no father ; and whenever the child 's interest was excited about him , -LRB- which was not often , as Mrs. Allen studiously avoided all mention of him , -RRB- the answers to her inquiries were discreetly framed to lull her curiosity , without communicating the least information . 
Mrs. Harrison led Ellen to the door , and kissing , and begging her to come again to see her , she transferred her to the care of the servant , and returned to soothe her husband with all the interest she could command in the details of the victory . 
Mrs. Allen , with all her good sense , was not quite free from the jealous pride that pervades her class in New-England : she resolved not to waste her courtesies upon those who disdained them ; and when Ellen , calling to mind Mrs. Harrison 's invitation to her , begged leave to carry her some more peaches , Mrs. Allen said , `` no ! 
Ellen rather felt than understood the reply , and she answered , `` but I am sure the lady spoke very kind to me . '' 
Ellen had no purpose of disobedience , but surprised at the unwonted strictness of Mrs. Allen , she determined to lay aside all the peaches that were given to her for the lady whose kind manner to her had made a deep impression . 
oh no , '' replied little Ellen , with fatal simplicity ; `` Mr. Allen says the duke will not eat our peaches . '' 
`` Every body calls him that name , '' said Ellen , lowering her voice , and drawing closer to Mrs. Harrison . 
The weeks passed on , autumn succeeded to summer , and Mrs. Harrison seemed farther than ever from procuring an intercourse with little Ellen . 
During the warm weather , she had occasionally seen her bounding over the field with the elastic step of joyous childhood , but now her careful guardian kept her cautiously within doors . 
Ellen -- she is there ; '' and hugging her children closer to her breast , she pointed to the flames . 
Mrs. Harrison 's resolution was instantly taken ; `` tell me where she sleeps , '' she cried , `` it may be possible to reach her through a window . '' 
there is no window , she is in the dark room next mine ; and this -- this is mine , '' she added , pointing to a front apartment which the flames had not yet reached . 
The flames now burst through the wall at the extremity opposite the door she had entered , and the air rushing in , rolled away a volume of smoke , and discovered Ellen standing at her door , with her hand still on the latch , a dog was crouching at her feet , yelping , pulling her night dress with his teeth , and urging her forward with the most expressive supplications ; still the little creature shrunk from the terrors before her , unconscious of the fatal risk of delay . 
Both instinctively sunk on their knees -- no sound escaped from them , but the rapture of gratitude was in their hearts , and its incense rose to Him who had rescued them from impending death . 
The family , and the few persons who had come to their aid , gathered around the relics ; little Ellen stood with one hand in Mrs. Harrison 's , one arm lovingly encircled the neck of the faithful animal that first broke her slumbers ; the whole group remained impotent and silent spectators , till the house sunk a ruin under the still crackling flames . 
`` The Lord that has spared my wife and little ones and Ellen , is welcome to all the rest . 
She exclaimed , `` poor Ellen , '' and looked anxiously around her , till her eye falling on a trunk , she hastily opened it and took from it a small box ; then turning to her husband , `` God be praised , '' she said , `` every thing of value is saved . '' 
After Mrs. Harrison had made every provision for the refreshment and repose of her guests , and after she had stowed away little Ellen in a room adjoining her own , and extended her hospitalities even to the dog , her faithful coadjutor in the preservation of the child , she retired to her own room , nerved by gratitude and joy , to the task of reconciling her husband to the liberties she had taken with the family mansion . 
So strikingly did she delineate the dangers and escape of the family , the risk she herself had run , the rescue of the child , and finally , the exertions of Roger , his truly Englishcoolness and intrepidity , that Mr. Harrison himself anticipated the conclusion of the story , by exclaiming , `` Lord bless me , my dear ! 
`` Certainly , my dear , '' she replied . 
There was such obvious advantages in this arrangement for the child , Mrs. Harrison pressed her request so earnestaly , and Mrs. Allen felt that it would be so ungrateful to refuse , that she yielded her own inclination , and left Ellen with her devoted friend . 
Little Ellen opened the fountain of Mrs. Harrison 's affections ; and such was the renovating influence produced on her , that her husband , who never dreamed whence it proceeded , remarked how prodigiously the country winter improved her health and spirits ; and congratulated himself upon his wise decision to remove from the chilling airs of the coast to the family estate , always noted for its salubrious situation . 
She warred against the natural selfishness of childhood in all its specious forms , and she completely subdued an impetuosity of temper , that had been suffered if not nurtured by Mrs. Allen 's indulgence : in short she seemed constantly to realize that she had the training of an immortal creature ; and to feel that so sweet a form as Ellen 's should , `` envelope and contain '' naught but `` celestial spirits . '' 
The time at length arrived for Mrs. Allen to reclaim Ellen . 
Mrs. Harrison urged delay after delay , and was so earnestly seconded by her husband , -LRB- who had been beguiled of his uncomfortable stateliness by the playful little creature -RRB- that Mrs. Allen finally consented to surrender her own inclinations , and to make a permanent arrangement with Mrs. Harrison , which should allow Ellen to pass half her time at the mansion-house . 
In this arrangement there was a system of checks and balances that produced that singular and felicitous union of diversity of qualities which constituted the rare perfection of Ellen 's character . 
Ellen might have caught the pensiveness of Mrs. Harrison 's manner , with its grace and polish : she might have forgotten the active duties of life in listening with her to the melody of nature -- the music of the passing stream , the rustling of the leaves , or the song of the birds , or in watching the changeful forms of the summer clouds , as their shadows dropped on the mountain 's side , or danced in frolic humours over the grassy fields and thick standing corn . 
Had Ellen been less grateful or affectionate in her nature , she might have loved one of her guardians to the exclusion of the other ; but she felt their gratuitous kindness with the sensibility of a truly generous mind ; she saw in them the parents that Providence had provided for her orphanage , and without any of the pride or restlessness of dependence , her devotion to them both evinced her eager desire that they should realize all the beatitude of benevolence . 
Had her friends been less excellent than they were , some mischief might have resulted to our heroine from the diversity of their religious opinions . 
He was always gratified with Ellen 's respectful attendance on his reading of the church service ; and he noticed more than once how remarkably well her voice sounded in the responses . 
He blamed his wife for not making an effort to prevent Ellen 's going to the village meeting with the Allens during her residence with them , which he said she might easily do , as the girl certainly had sense enough to discern the difference between worship and talking . 
Allen too , dissatisfied with what he deemed his wife 's lukewarmness , reproved her for not interposing her authority to prevent Ellen from ` wasting the Sabbath in hearing a form of words read over by a man that had no more religion than the pope , and who all the while flattered himself that none but an episcopal tory could go to heaven . ' 
Time rolled on , and every year found Ellen improved in loveliness : the gay and reckless spirit of childhood gave place to the vivacity and sensitiveness of fifteen . 
Ellen received the communication with a gentle submission to the trials of her lot that astonished both her friends , -- for Mrs. Harrison had long been in Mrs. Allen 's confidence -- she saw that dark clouds enveloped her ; still -- for hope is the element of youth -- except in some moments of fearful apprehension , she believed that she should yet enjoy a clear heaven and a bright day . 
Ellen , as her mind matured , became every day more dear and necessary to Mrs. Harrison , with whom , from fifteen to eighteen , her time was passed almost exclusively . 
Mrs. Harrison suggested that , as this gentleman had a noble revenue from his own estates , such an accession as their little property would be but as a drop to the ocean ; and she urged that it would be in the spirit of the known generosity of his family to confer his bounty on an orphan ; she intimated that Ellen was quite dependent on him , for except a few hundred dollars inherited from her parents , she had nothing , and could have no rational reliance on the Allens ; for it had been for some time whispered in Lansdown that Allen , in his mercantile enterprise , had met with the fate of all those who , since the time of æsop 's fish , have aspired to some other element than that for which Providence had destined them . 
In the mean time Ellen , devoted to the care of Mrs. Allen , allowed herself no relaxation but that of passing a few hours occasionally with Mrs. Harrison . 
Ellen believed not . 
`` George Lenox , '' she said , `` had advanced two hundred dollars to redeem a portion of the property . '' 
exclaimed Mrs. Harrison `` how , dear Ellen , has he the ability to do so generous an act ? '' 
`` He draws on talent and industry , '' replied Ellen , `` and I do not believe his drafts will ever be dishonoured . '' 
Ellen explained to Mrs. Harrison that young Lenox , after defraying his expences at the university , had that amount of money remaining -- the fruit of his industry and economy . 
The glow that had suffused Ellen 's cheek deepened as she replied `` dearest Mrs. Harrison , forgive me if I have not dealt frankly with you ; I wished to avoid exciting your tender , but , believe me , unnecessary solicitude about me . 
`` You are right -- you are right , my noble-minded Ellen , '' replied Mrs. Harrison , as Ellen paused in her appeal : `` my fear of the possible evils you may encounter -LRB- should I be removed from you -RRB- from want and dependence afflicts me with undue anxiety . 
I hope I should have courage enough not to shrink from any evils that menaced myself , but when I think of your being exposed to a cold selfish world , I feel a mother 's timidity ; you , with your strange mysterious history , Ellen , your inexperience , your generous confiding temper , with all that refinement that I have foolishly , perhaps sinfully , delighted to watch stealing over your character , with all the graces that fit you for -- '' `` Oh , stop dear Mrs. Harrison , this is strange language for you to hold , and me to hear ; my highest ambition is to do well my duty in whatever station Providence assigns me . 
I will not , '' she added , playfully , `` any longer expose my humility to temptation ; '' and she put on her hat , and stooped to her friend for a farewell kiss , when Mrs. Harrison said , `` not yet , Ellen , you must not go till you have explained to me this benevolent sympathy of yours and young Lenox 's ; this generous union of your fortunes is doubtless received by him as a good omen ? '' 
`` The event of our friend 's happiness has already interpreted the omen , and explained all its significance , '' replied Ellen , rising and walking away from Mrs. Harrison . 
`` Now come back to me , Ellen , '' said she , `` and seat yourself here on my footstool , and if your tongue will not speak the truth , I must read it in your truth-telling eyes and cheeks . '' 
Ellen turned towards her friend for the first time in her life reluctantly ; and re-seating herself , she said with an embarrassed air , `` I scarcely can conjecture what you expect from me . '' 
`` Most certainly I do ; I should be the most ungrateful -- '' `` Pshaw , my dear Ellen , it is not the love that springs from any such dutiful source as gratitude which is in question at this moment ; but that mysterious sentiment , inexplicable , uncontrolable which does not require , and seldom , I fear , admits a reason for its existence . '' 
Ah , dear Ellen , the nature of the animal is known by its doublings . 
`` I fancied I knew that you were not , but nothing less than a gift of second sight is infallible on such occasions ; we must go a little farther , Ellen , even at the risk of deepening the crimson on your cheeks -- you surely are not unconscious that Lenox is in lovewith you ? '' 
`` He has never told me so , '' replied Ellen . 
`` That may be -- young Edwin ` never talkedof love ' -- but without much experience , you know there are expressions that speak this passion more emphatically than language : and , exempt as you are from vanity , I think you can not have misunderstood this amiable young man 's devotion to you -- his eagerness for your society , his anxiety to gratify all your wishes , his eye fixed on you as if he were spell-bound -- '' `` O say no more , '' exclaimed Ellen , hiding her face on her friend 's lap , `` I have understood George , but I hoped -- '' `` To be able to make an appropriate return . 
`` No , Ellen , no , you are incapable of trifling with the happiness of any one ; your error has arisen from inexperience . 
exclaimed Ellen ; `` I should hate myself were I capable of it , and George , kind , generous as he is , the sufferer . 
What ought I to do -- can I do any thing now , '' she asked , with the impatience of a generous mind , to repair the evil it has inflicted ? '' 
`` The severe suffering , '' she continued , as she marked the deep melancholy that had succeeded Ellen 's usually animated expression , `` you feel at this moment , from having been the involuntary cause of disappointment to your friend , will teach you in future jealously to guard the happiness that may be exposed to the influence of your attraction . 
`` There is no need of caution for the future , '' replied Ellen , `` no one else will ever care for me so much as George does . '' 
`` That may be , dear Ellen , but as you are scarce eighteen , it is possible that you have not finished your experience in love affairs ; if you preserve that woe-begone visage indeed , any other safeguard against the effect of your charms will be quite superfluous : come , my love , cheer up , and let me hear your sweet voice at my dinner table , as sweet to me as minstrelsy to an old chieftain . '' 
Ellen made a vain effort to recover her spirits , and then hurried away that she might indulge her ingenuous sorrow without giving pain to her friend . 
She was careful to follow Mrs. Harrison 's prudent counsel , and when George Lenox came to pass his last evening with her , he received a friendly farewell message , with the information , that her duty to Mrs. Allen precluded her seeing him again . 
It would be difficult to say whether Mrs. Harrison was most gratified or disappointed by the result of her investigation into the state of Ellen 's affections . 
While she lived her annuity was ample for the support of Ellen and herself ; but nothing could be more precarious than such a dependence , and Ellen might be left to encounter alone the wants of life . 
There are some disagreeable results from this state of things , on the whole so honourable ; and Mrs. Harrison felt that in implanting in Ellen the tastes that belonged to the highest grades of society , and in cultivating the habits of the `` born lady , '' she had conferred a superiority of doubtful value ; and she was almost led to regret the fastidiousness which had been her own work , when she felt herself compelled to trace to it Ellen 's rejection of the affection of one who was her equal in all important respects , and whose excellent character and flattering prospects would have rendered a connexion with him highly advantageous . 
We said Mrs. Harrison almostregretted the state of Ellen 's heart -- we fear she did not quite , for in common with the best individuals , she sometimes sacrificed general and immutable principles to the indulgence of her favourite peculiarities . 
Mrs. Allen 's life closed at the end of a few painful weeks , and Ellen , after having performed every service for her with the strictest fidelity , wept over her with filial sorrow . 
Old Mrs. Allen soon after joined her grandson at Eton , and Ellen thus unfettered by duty , returned to Mrs. Harrison 's , where her life passed happily in pursuits congenial to her taste , till she was summoned to Vermont by intelligence of the threatening illness of Edward Allen . 
There nothing occurred worthy their notice till one evening Mrs. Lenox entering Miss Bruce 's apartment , said , `` Ellen are you here , and quite alone ? '' 
`` Quite alone , '' replied Ellen , `` Miss Redwood has not left her father 's room since they took their tea . '' 
`` I am glad of it -- glad the girl has the grace to stay with him even for half an hour , though her society seems to be of little use or consolation ; and particularly glad , dear Ellen , to find you alone . 
She was about to proceed to divulge its contents , when both she and Ellen were startled by a sound about Miss Redwood 's bed . 
`` I fancied so too , '' said Ellen . 
Ellen , I am the proudest and happiest of mothers ; I have just received a letter from George , which proves that he is worthy of his prosperity . '' 
`` And do you not yet , Ellen , suspect the reason youhave to be glad -- do you not know that George loves you ? '' 
exclaimed Ellen involuntarily . 
`` Hope not , my dear Ellen ! 
She paused for a moment for a reply , but Ellen said nothing . 
Is not such a good and constant heart worth having , Ellen , not to mention being the wife of a celebrated young clergyman ? '' 
Here the happy mother again paused , and again wondered she received no reply . 
`` Not a word , Ellen ? 
Thus saying , Mrs. Lenox rose to leave the room , when Ellen caught her by the arm , and exclaimed , `` stop one moment Mrs. Lenox , and hear me . '' 
`` Hear you , dear Ellen ; George himself could scarcely be more delighted to hear you . '' 
Ellen 's tongue seemed to be again paralysing , but making a strong effort , she said , `` you know , Mrs. Lenox , what reasons I have for wishing to defer for the present all thoughts of marriage ; you know that I ought not to involve any one in my unhappy destiny ; you know -- George does not -- that possibly disgrace awaits me . '' 
`` But , my dearest Ellen , what is all this to the purpose ? 
Ellen was quite overcome with the generous , affectionate zeal of the mother , and bursting into tears , she clasped Mrs. Lenox 's hand in hers , and said , `` I do not deserve this , my dear , kind friend ; I have not been frank with you . 
exclaimed Mrs. Lenox , drawing back from Ellen , `` not love him , Ellen ! 
Poor Ellen at this moment wished it were impossible ; she sunk back in her chair , and dark as the room was , instinctively covered her face with her handkerchief , while her friend , in great agitation , walked up and down the room , talking half to herself and half to Ellen . 
A pious minister -- a man of education and talents -- very good talents -- quite uncommon talents -- and a better tempered boy never lived ; and as to his appearance , there may be handsomer men than George , but there never was a pleasanter look -- a good faithful son he has been -- and brother , and that is a sure sign he will be a good husband : and he loves you , Ellen ; '' she concluded , pausing , and placing her hand on Ellen 's shoulder , `` and you ca n't be in your right mind if you do not love him . '' 
Ellen felt that it would be in vain to attempt to convince the fond mother that that could be a right mind which did not , as she would think , justly appreciate George 's merits : and she was too delicate , too gentle to attempt to vindicate herself . 
She was grateful for the mother 's and the son 's generous preference of an isolated being ; and approaching alone the crisis of her fate , she was reluctant to refuse the kind protecting arm that was stretched out to succour and protect her . 
She faltered for a moment in the resolution she had instinctively taken : she could not bear to afflict , perhaps to alienate her partial friends -- she might be able to command her affections . 
the spirit would not come when she did call it ; for when Mrs. Lenox , suspecting some infirmity of purpose from Ellen 's continued silence , said , in a softened tone , `` It was but a girlish silly feeling after all -- was it , dear Ellen ? 
She replied with a dignified decision that blasted Mrs. Lenox 's reviving hopes . 
what do you expect , Ellen ? '' 
There was so much purity and truth and feeling in Ellen 's words , that Mrs. Lenox could not retain the resentment that in spite of her better feelings had risen in her bosom . 
she replied , kindly , `` Oh Ellen , you need not ask our forgiveness . 
How long this conference , so unsatisfactory to the mother and embarrassing to Ellen , might have continued , it is impossible to say , had it not been interrupted by the entrance of Miss Redwood . 
she exclaimed , `` a tête a tête , confidential , no doubt ; I am sorry to interrupt it , '' she continued , looking at both the ladies , and observing the signs of emotion that were too evident to escape notice ; `` it seems to have been interesting . 
Come Lilly , you lazy wretch , '' she added , turning to the servant , who was lying stretched out on the floor at the foot of the bed , `` get up , and undress me ; I have been dying with sleep this half hour , while papa was prosing away at me . '' 
He , good easy man , after expressing some surprise , concluded with the truisms , that girls were apt to be notional ; that to be sure Ellen was a likely young woman , but there were plenty of fish in the sea , and good ones too , that would spring at a poorer bait than George could throw out ; and besides , he added , by way of consolation , there was something of a mist about Ellen , and though he should not have made that an objection seeing that she was a good girl , and George had an idea about her , yet , as matters had turned out as they had , he believed it was all for the best . 
It was possible that Ellen indulged hopes of a more splendid alliance than that with George Lenox . 
This opened a new channel for her thoughts -- the debût of a new beau , a possible admirer , could rival any other interest , and before she sunk to sleep , Ellen 's affairs subsided to the insignificance which they really bore in relation to Miss Redwood . 
She awoke with the first beam of day , and instinctively raised her head from her pillow to ascertain whether Ellen Bruce 's bed was unoccupied ; it was , but her ear caught the sound of a footstep in the entry , and immediately after Ellen entered with as little noise as possible . 
`` I am happy if I do not disturb you , '' replied Ellen , `` still I must be quiet on account of the family . '' 
`` I am wearied , '' replied Ellen , without gratifying or even noticing Miss Redwood 's curiosity : `` but , '' she added , as she threw herself on the bed , `` I shall have time before breakfast to refresh myself . '' 
Caroline with the transmuting power of jealousy , had converted Ellen 's simplest actions into aliments for her suspicions , and now that a circumstance had occurred which did not readily admit of an explanation , she exulted in the expectation of a triumph over her father , who had treated her curiosity in relation to Ellen as quite childless and groundless . 
`` Your favourite , papa , '' she said , seizing a favourable opportunity when she was sitting alone with her father after dinner , `` has a singular taste for walking . '' 
Miss Bruce , '' he added , speaking to Ellen through the window , `` you are an absolute devotee to nature -- will you permit my daughter to be the companion of your walk , and show her some of the shrines at which you worship ? '' 
`` I am only an admirer , not an idolater , '' replied Ellen , smiling ; `` and I am certain , that if Miss Redwood will do me the favour to accompany me , she will answer for me that my homage is reasonable . '' 
Miss Redwood readily acquiesced in the arrangement -- the wish to restore her bloom was a controlling motive ; and the animating expectation of the arrival of the Westalls had for the moment made her forget her dislike to Ellen : Lilly was summoned with her hat and gloves , and the young ladies proceeded arm in arm towards the lake . 
`` What a delightful compensation we have , '' said Ellen , `` for the suffering from our long sultry summer days in the reviving influence of the approaching evening ; its sweet cool breath refreshes all nature , and restores elasticity and vigour to mind and body . '' 
Ellen suppressed her opinion -- perhaps partial -- that her companion did not see very far . 
`` I am not such a bigot , '' said she , `` as to believe that your country does not possess , in many respects , the advantage over ours ; but I confess I have prejudices so strong in favour of our lofty mountains , deep valleys , and broad lakes , that I do not believe I should ever admire the tame level of Carolina ; but it is hardly necessary for me to be thus boastful while this scene is itself so eloquently pleading its claims to your admiration : look , Miss Redwood , '' she continued , `` where the lake reflects the bright tints of the evening sky , and there where the long shadows of the trees seem to sleep on its bosom -- is there , can there be in the wide world a lovelier spot than this ? '' 
After that horrible storm and fright it is natural it should have no beauty in my eyes ; besides , you know , one that is not used to the country gets so tired of it , that it is quite impossible to admire it ; but see , '' she added , changing her languid tone to one nearly as animated as Ellen 's had been : `` see , Miss Bruce , those beautiful wild flowers that are growing there close to the water 's edge ; I should so like to get them to dress my hair against the Westalls arrive : they would form a beautiful contrast . 
`` But , '' said Caroline , `` it surely is not impossible to get at them ; '' and espying a fisherman 's canoe which was fastened to a tree against which they were standing , she proposed to Ellen , who , she said , she was sure knew how to guide it , to procure the flowers for her . 
`` Indeed , Miss Redwood , '' replied Ellen , `` I am no water-nymph , and these canoes require as much skill to guide them as the egg-shells in which witches and fairies are said to traverse the waters . '' 
The inexorable Ellen resisted this argument , though Miss Redwood enforced it by a rapid glance of comparison from Ellen 's simple muslin frock to her own richly trimmed silk dress . 
Caroline was frightened , and increased by her agitation the irregular motion of the canoe ; Ellen perceived the dangerous operation of her terrors , but before she could make her comprehend that all that was necessary was that she should sit down quietly , Caroline had grasped the pendant vine which was strong and tenacious , and the canoe had passed from under her . 
Ellen perceived , at a single glance , the dilemma in which Caroline 's fears had involved her , and perceived and adopted the only mode of extricating her from her awkward situation . 
she exclaimed , as soon as a certainty of recovered safety restored to her the use of her tongue : `` for Heaven 's sake tell me , Ellen , how you got to me ; I thought you dropped from the skies . '' 
Ellen explained that she had reached her by natural and easy means . 
`` But we will not , '' said Ellen , `` return to the shore without a trophy for your daring to venture to the only place where even fear could create peril . 
These flowers , '' she added , plucking them , `` were the cause of all the mischief , and they shall die for it . '' 
She then rowed back to the shore , and was tastefully arranging the flowers in Caroline 's hair , saying , at the same time , that `` if she had made herself a water-nymph , they would still have been a fit coronal for her , '' when the attention of both the ladies was attracted by the rapid approach of a gentleman whom they perceived to be a stranger . 
Miss Redwood turned to introduce Ellen , but she had walked forward with Lucy , who , with childish eagerness , was telling her how frightened she was when she saw her jump from the rock , and that for a million Miss Redwoods she would not have had Ellen run the risk of being drowned . 
The joy of recovered safety , and the pleasure of surprise had deepened her colour ; her gratitude to Ellen had given a touch of unwonted softness to her expression , and the simple decoration of the white flowers mingling with her jet glossy curls , was far more beautiful than their usually elaborate arrangement . 
Every one noticed the change ; -LRB- excepting Ellen , who had of late almost wholly withdrawn from the family circle -RRB- indeed , it was so manifest that Miss Deborah , who had taken a decided dislike to Caroline , and who was rather remarkable for the inveteracy of her opinions , was heard to say , that `` since the girl 's sweetheart had come , she was as bright as a September day after the fog was lifted ; but for her part she liked to see people have sunshine within them like Ellen . '' 
`` It was your wish , Sir , to know what ailed the child ; the poor thing has just got the use of her eyesight , and she has been expecting some one that she loves better than all the world ; and when she saw this young lady with you , she thought it was her friend -- though to be sure she is shorter than this lady ; but then Peggy , poor thing , does not see quite right yet , and then when she is puzzled she just lies down to the ground as you saw her , for that was her way to listen , and she knows Miss Ellen 's step , for as light as it is , when my poor ear ca n't hear a sound . '' 
`` No , no , '' interrupted the child , `` it was Miss Ellen that gave the doctor hopes . '' 
`` Lord bless her , '' continued the woman , smiling , `` Peggy thinks there 's nothing good done in the world , but Miss Ellen does it , and to be sure she has been an angel to Peggy . '' 
`` And how , '' asked Mr. Redwood , whose interest in Peggy 's history seemed much augmented since the mention of Miss Ellen , `` how came Miss Bruce to know your child ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' said little Peggy , `` do , aunt Betty , tell them about Miss Ellen , they 'll like to hear that best of all : now do n't go away , '' said she , turning to Caroline , who had risen from her chair , and was walking towards the door . 
`` It is five weeks to-morrow , '' continued the narrator , `` since I first saw Miss Ellen ; it was the very morning after young Mr. Allen 's funeral . 
I saw her that morning and the next sitting on that rock by the elm tree yonder , ladies ; she had a pencil in her hand , and a big book on her lap , and a paper on it ; and the second morning Peggy heard her humming some songs to herself , and she crept close to her : the silly thing would any time leave her breakfast for an end of a song . 
Peggy , get those bags you made that Miss Ellen said you might sell . '' 
The aunt seemed more sensible of the extent of Miss Redwood 's generosity than the child , for she was voluble in her thanks ; and then proceeded to say that Miss Ellen , not satisfied with doing so much , brought Doctor Bristol to look at Peggy 's eyes . 
`` Doctor Bristol , '' she said , `` had come to live in Eton since she had given up Peggy 's eyes as quite gone , and therefore she had never shown the child to him . 
but Miss Ellen , God bless her , could always make her mind without crossing her , for she loves Miss Ellen better than any thing on earth , or in heaven either , I fear me ; and she would liken her to strawberries and roses , and every thing that was most pleasant to the senses the poor thing had left -- and she would say that her voice was sweeter than the music of the birds , or the sound of the waters breaking on the shore , when a gentle breeze came over the lake of a still evening , for that was the sound she loved best of all , and would listen to it sometimes for an hour together without speaking or moving . '' 
Mrs. Westall acquiesced , with a ` just as you please , my dear ; ' but Mr. Redwood , guessing the purport of his daughter 's whisper , interposed with a request in a low voice , that she would not prolong their delay by interrupting the good woman 's story , as the pain in his arm warned him that it was time for him to return ; then turning to the aunt , he asked her `` how she brought the girl finally to consent to the operation ? '' 
`` Oh , it was Miss Ellen that made her consent , and she would only do it by promising that she would stay by her and hold her head . 
God knows I could not have done it , well as I love her , to have saved her eyes , for I was all in a shiver when I saw the doctor fix her by that window , and Miss Ellen stood behind her , and Peggy leaned her head back on to Miss Ellen 's breast , and one of Miss Ellen 's hands was on the child 's forehead , and the other under her chin , and she looked , God bless her , as white as marble , and as beautiful as an angel . 
Miss Ellen bade me not to speak yet , and the bandage was put over the child 's eyes , and she was laid there on the bed , and Miss Ellen motioned to me to go out with her , and as I stepped from the door , she sunk like a dying person into my arms ; but still it seemed she could only think of Peggy , for she put up her hand for a sign to me to be quiet , and then the breath seemed quite gone out of her . 
`` All went on well to the third day , and then Miss Ellen came with leave to take off the bandage , and she asked Peggy what she wished most in the world to see . 
`` Oh you , you , Miss Ellen , '' she said ; and then the dear young lady stood before her , and took off the bandage ; and then , bless you , ladies , her piercing scream of joy when the light touched her eye -- oh ! 
`` She remembered it , '' she said , `` but she thought simple characters were not worth deciphering . '' 
`` I do n't know about incidents , '' said Debby , who was arrested as she was leaving the room by the allusion to Ellen , `` but I think if any body had saved me from the accident of being drowned or ducked , I should not have left it to other folks to tell of it . '' 
She had been indulging herself with the refreshment of a short walk , and was just re-entering the door , and lingering to gaze on the dewy landscape glittering in the moon-beams , when her ear caught Charles Westall 's inquiry in relation to herself : she was awkwardly situated , for she could not advance without being observed , nor remain without being an involuntary listener to a conversation that seemed now to have turned upon herself . 
While she was hesitating , Mr. Redwood inquired of Debby `` why Miss Bruce latterly confined herself so much to Mrs. Allen 's room ? '' 
`` Why , '' said Deborah , `` the fact is , that the old lady is broke to pieces with her troubles , and the moment Ellen is out of her sight she moans for her like a child whimpering for its mother : we all try to spell her , but none of us can do any thing right but Ellen : it is past all belief what she does for the old lady -- it is enough to wear out the strength of Sampson . 
In the passage he met Ellen , who on his approach had darted forward in the hope of avoiding him . 
It was impossible -- and it was apparent that she had overheard the conversation -- her face was flushed and her manner troubled -- her eye met Westall 's : a single glance intimated the suffering of the one and the indignant feeling of the other -- their fine spirits had been kindled by the same spark -- it was one of those moments when the soul sends its bright illuminations to the face , and does not need the intervention of language . 
Ellen 's first impulse had been to pass to her own apartment , but Westall 's look had changed the current of her feelings -- such is the power of sympathy . 
`` Stay one moment , Mr. Westall , '' said she , hastily entering Mr. Redwood 's apartment , while Westall paused at the door . 
Her appearance was electrifying -- Caroline rose from her seat , Mr. Redwood exclaimed , `` good heavens ! '' 
`` Miss Redwood , '' said Ellen , `` I have not come to excuse my listening , that was involuntary , but as far as I am able , to shield the memory of my mother from your reckless insinuations . '' 
Here Ellen 's voice quite failed her , but after a moment 's pause she proceeded with tolerable composure . 
I have guarded it , '' she added , clasping her hands and raising her fine eyes , `` as the Israelites guarded the ark of the living God . 
interrupted Mr. Redwood , `` Miss Bruce -- Ellen -- my poor child -- have you quietly complied with so strange , so arbitrary a request ? '' 
Westall said nothing : his eyes were rivetted with intense eagerness on Ellen , who replied , `` can it be inexplicable to you , Mrs. Westall , who have a devoted son , to you , Miss Redwood , who can render a daily service to your parent , that I should hold sacred and dear the only act of filial duty that remains to me ? '' 
replied Ellen with impetuosity . 
Charles Westall had listened with breathless interest ; he now advanced involuntarily , and seizing Ellen 's hand , `` admirable being ! '' 
Ellen certainly felt a glow of gratitude and delight that there was one who perfectly understood her : such sympathies are well compared to the perfect accords of fine instruments . 
She had hardly uttered a fervent `` thank you , Mr. Westall , '' before a sudden feeling of the awkwardness of her conspicuous situation came over her ; -- her natural timidity had been controlled by stronger feelings , but now yielding to it , she abruptly left the room to seek the shelter of her own apartment . 
Westall 's last words to Ellen were still ringing in Caroline 's ears . 
`` I trust , Sir , '' said she , addressing herself to him , `` that you did not mean to do me the honour to class me among the ` careless , cruel , or envious ? '' ' 
This evening her name was not mentioned -- neither spoke of the scene at the cottage , nor of Ellen 's extraordinary disclosure . 
She was surprised to find that Ellen , who had of late been constantly with Mrs. Allen , was already in her room . 
Ellen , believing that Caroline was still occupied with her guests , had taken her precious casket from one of her drawers , had placed it on the window-ledge , and was sitting in a deep reverie with her cheek leaning on it , when Caroline 's entrance startled and somewhat disconcerted her . 
She took it from Ellen 's hand , and carelessly shaking it , said , `` it is quite light , there is something rattles though -- should it be a miniature ? 
`` It contains allmy jewels , Miss Redwood ; permit me to take it , '' replied Ellen , with some emotion ; for she could no longer endure to see that handled and discussed with so much levity , which she had never touched but with a sentiment resembling religious awe . 
While Ellen replaced the box in the drawer , Caroline watched her , saying at the same time , -LRB- for she was displeased at Ellen 's manner of resuming it -RRB- `` I can not have the slightest curiosity about the contents of your box , of course , Miss Bruce ; but if they were as important to me as they are to you , I should not hesitate : it is quite silly to suppose there would be any harm in just taking a peep . '' 
`` My mind is entirely at rest on the subject , '' replied Ellen . 
I am sorry that my poor concerns have been obtruded on your notice , but since they have been , the greatest favour you can do me now is to forget them ; '' then bidding Caroline good night , she returned to Mrs. Allen . 
She had suffered injurious thoughts of Ellen , till she had come to consider her as an enemy , of whom it was right to take any advantage . 
Her self-importance had been mortified by the deference paid to Ellen by the Lenoxes ; her self-love offended by her father 's excessive admiration . 
In her idleness her thoughts had brooded over Ellen 's conduct , till she had magnified the most trivial circumstances into a ground of alarm or anxiety ; but since the arrival of Charles Westall she had almost forgotten her , and quite forgotten her silly fancy of the danger of what she called a ` sentimental affair ' between Ellen and her father . 
The events of the day and evening had thrown a strong light on her rival , and cast her quite into the shade : this was enough to relume the fires of envy in Caroline 's bosom , if they were not already kindled by the interest Westall had manifested in Ellen . 
A most convenient opportunity now offered to gratify her curiosity , perhaps to confirm her malicious conjectures . 
It was possible that the key to one of her trinket cases might open Ellen 's box ; there could be no harm in trying just to see if one would suit . 
She drew out the drawer in which she had seen Ellen replace her casket , and then paused for a moment -- but , ` c'est le premier pas qui coûte ; '' the first wrong step taken , or resolved on , the next is easy and almost certain . 
She carried the box to the light , found a key that exactly fitted , and then the gratification could not be resisted . 
She opened the box -- a miniature laid on the top of it . 
There was also a certificate of the marriage of Ellen 's mother to the original of the picture . 
Caroline 's first impulse was to destroy the records : she went to the window , threw up the sash , and prepared to give Ellen 's treasure to the disposition of the winds -- but as she unbound the lock of hair that she might reduce the letter to fragments , it curled around her hand , and awakened a feeling of awe and superstition . 
She paused ; she was familiar with folly , but not with crime ; she had not virtue enough to restore Ellen 's right , nor hardihood enough to annihilate the proof of it : a feeble purpose of future restitution dawned in her mind -- the articles might be safely retained in her own keeping -- future circumstances should decide their destiny -- her grandmother oughtto see them . 
This last consideration fixed her wavering mind , and she proceeded to make her arrangements with the caution that conscious guilt already inspired . 
She let fall the window-curtains , secured herself from interruption by placing the scissors over the latch of the door , and then refolded the letter , and carefully removed the miniature from its setting , tore the name from the back of it , and placed it with the hair , the letter , and the certificate , in a box of her own , which she securely deposited at the bottom of one of her trunks . 
In order to avoid a suspicion that might arise in Ellen 's mind , should she miss the sound of the miniature , Caroline prudently restored the setting to the box , and then locked and replaced it in the drawer . 
For a moment she felt a glow of triumph , that the result of her investigation had made her the mistress of Ellen 's destiny ; but this was quickly succeeded by a deep feeling of mortification , a consciousness of injustice and degradation , and a fearful apprehension of the future ; -- even at this moment , who would not rather have been the innocent Ellen , spoiled of the object of years , of patient waiting and intense expectation , than the selfish , ruthless Caroline ! 
Now tell me , Mr. Westall , on your conscience , if you can think that black hair plaited , and twisted , and fussified , to be compared with Ellen 's beautiful brown hair ? 
why , man , I do n't believe you ever saw it when she was combing it . '' 
`` Well , '' proceeded Debby , in her earnestness , not heeding the smile that hovered on Westall 's lip , `` I can tell you it reaches almost to the tops of her shoes ; and then , when she doubles it into them rich folds , and fastens it with her comb , and parts it from the front in a kind of a wave -- did you ever see any thing that had a cleaner , prettier look ? 
Now Ellen 's is just what a woman 's should be , modest and meek . 
I am not gifted at description ; but if you ever saw that picture of the Virgin Mary that our George sent home to his mother , -LRB- and between you and I , I always thought it was because it was such a likeness of Ellen that he sent it -RRB- you will know what I mean : look at the forehead , the temple , the mouth , the eyes -- yes , most especially the eyes , and you will say , ` this is an immortal creatur ' -- you need not smile , Mr. Westall : what I mean is , that that face has been lit up by a spark from heaven , as the hymn-book says , ` a vital spark of heavenly flame , ' and a spark that will never die . 
-- but Ellen ! 
-- she is behind a cloud just now ; but if you had seen her as I have seen her , every step as light and springy as a fawn 's , and now , if you take notice , her motions are all free like a child 's , she never seems to think any one is looking at her . 
I never read any to speak of , in poetry , and novel books , and such things , so I ca n't compare Miss Redwood to any of the gentry you find there , but she always brings to my mind the daughters of Zion spoken of by the Prophet Isaiah , in his third chapter , 16th verse and on ; while Ellen is like those Christian women the apostle commends , whose adorning is not outwardly , but that of a meek and quiet spirit : there is just the difference between the two girls that there is between the pomp and show and to-do of the old Jewish worship , and of that of our times , which is , -LRB- that is , ought to be -RRB- in spirit and in truth . '' 
Ellen had persuaded her to have her easy chair drawn to the door , in the hope that she would be cheered by the bright scene before her . 
After adjusting her pillows , placing a footstool at her feet , and putting her snuff-box and handkerchief into her lap , `` Oh , '' said she , `` Mrs. Allen , is it not a glorious morning ? 
`` Now , '' said Ellen , placing the old lady 's spectacles over her eyes , `` now you can see : oh , only look where the mist still rests between the mountains , and looks like a flood of melted silver ; and there where it is rising up the side of the mountain -- so bright , one might fancy it enrobed spirits of the air -- and above , what a silvery curtain it hangs over that highest point -- and there it has risen , and is melting away on the pure blue of the sky : the lake too is alive with the spirit of the morning , and the merry waves as they come dancing on before the breeze , seem to laugh as they break on the shore . '' 
Ellen was an enthusiast in her susceptibility to the influence of natural beauty ; the bright scene before her had kindled a rapturous sensation which might excuse one moment of forgetfulness that her old friend 's senses were dull and cold ; that the chords were broken , over which the glad voice of nature might breathe , discoursing sweet music . 
`` Here , Ellen , '' said she , languidly , `` put away these spectacles -- the days have come that I have no pleasure in them : there is a heavy weight on my heart , child , and it will not bound at such sights . '' 
`` But , dear Mrs. Allen , throw aside the weight for a little while , '' said Ellen , while she playfully held the spectacles over the old lady 's eyes , `` you must enjoy this morning -- all nature rejoices -- the birds fill the sweet air with their music ; and see those insects , what myriads of them are whirling in a giddy circle . '' 
`` Where shall I look for my children , Ellen ? '' 
`` Your ministry is a kind one , my young friend , '' said Mr. Redwood , advancing from his room where he had been listening to Ellen ; `` but vain I am afraid . 
`` Lucy , '' she said , `` get your Testament and read me a few chapters ; that is all the comfort left to me . '' 
`` There are then , '' said Ellen , looking timidly at Mr. Redwood , `` some resources that can not be exhausted . '' 
`` Happy are those who think so , '' replied Mr. Redwood , with an equivocal smile , which indicated that his respect for Ellen alone prevented him from saying , ` that such a nostrum might do for an old woman , but had no efficacy for more enlightened subjects . ' 
`` Lucy , '' said Ellen to Mr. Redwood , `` is quite a rustic , like the rest of us -- unlearned in the forms of courtesy . '' 
So saying , he seated himself , and Ellen , having brought her portfolio from an adjoining room , placed herself on a bench under the elm tree which grew a few yards from the door-step . 
She was just finishing a sketch of the view from Mr. Lenox 's house , which she had promised to George Lenox . 
`` Certainly , '' said Ellen , `` although it will hardly reward you for the trouble . '' 
Ellen was unostentatious , and at the same time free from that false modesty which has its source in pride . 
She would have shrunk from any thing approaching to an exhibition of any of her talents , but she did not either from vanity or false humility imagine that there was in the efforts of her skill in drawing anything either to do her honour or discredit . 
Caroline 's colour , brilliant from exercise , was certainly heightened as she approached Ellen . 
Her mind was evidently intent on something beside the drawings , for her eye wandered from her father to Ellen for a few moments , when she seated herself with an expression of sullenness and abstraction that recalled the transactions of the preceding evening to all that had witnessed them : an awkwardness came over the whole party . 
Ellen busied herself with arranging and replacing her drawings ; the operation did not seem to be accelerated by Westall 's efforts to aid her . 
Ellen had in truth a face of the beatitudes . 
Ellen 's is `` full of notable morality which it doth delightfully teach , '' and might almost inspire . ' 
`` You have a right to your own conclusions , Sir , '' replied Mr. Redwood , so sternly , that Ellen involuntarily looked towards him . 
His eye met hers , and he was mortified that he should have betrayed his vexation , and he became still more disconcerted when Ellen said playfully , `` oh Mr. Lenox , do not expect Mr. Redwood to tell all the secrets of his life before ` the women folks . '' ' 
echoed Mr. Redwood , but in a smothered voice , while Caroline , who had been listening intently to the close of the conversation , sprang on her feet , and grasping Ellen 's arm , exclaimed , looking on her as if she would have pierced her soul with the inquiry , `` Ellen Bruce ! 
Ellen turned on her a look of such surprise and innocence , that she sunk back alarmed at her own precipitancy . 
Every eye was now fixed on her , as if to demand an explanation ; while Mr. Redwood , whose mottled cheek and contracted brow betrayed strong emotion , was the first to recover his selfpossession ; and when Caroline , hiding her face with her handkerchief , said , `` excuse me , Miss Bruce , I am not well this morning , '' her father said , sternly , `` your extraordinary conduct needs that apology , Caroline -- oblige me with a few minutes in my room . '' 
Why what ailed the girl , Ellen : is she hystericky ? 
or may be , '' he added , lowering his voice , and chuckling with the pride of a discoverer , `` may be she is afraid you 'll get away her sweetheart , Ellen , ha ? 
It was now poor Ellen 's turn to blush : she recollected suddenly that Mrs. Allen had been sitting in the air too long , and begged Mr. Lenox to assist her to her room , whither she followed , leaving Mrs. Westall and her son to their own musings . 
Charles Westall returned to the examination of the drawings which Ellen , in the haste of her attention to Mrs. Allen , had forgotten . 
`` I am sure , '' she continued , `` George has sent a great many beautiful books to Ellen , and George loves her . '' 
I thought every body loved Ellen . '' 
I do not mean that it is an intentional imposture of hers -- I dare say she is -- that is , she may be , quite innocent about it ; but as Caroline says , and Caroline has uncommon penetration -- in that she resembles her father -- Caroline says that it must be an invention of Ellen 's mother to screen the disgrace of her birth ; of course you know a woman of the sort that her mother must have been would not scruple a contrivance of that kind , which might induce some credulous fellow , as Caroline says , to marry her daughter . 
Mrs. Westall , who was really amiable when not perverted by a bad influence , was sometimes won by the sweetness of Ellen 's manners to forget the superior attractions of Miss Redwood ; and Ellen , happy in her own integrity , and unconscious of design , was frank , natural , and often spirited : so much so , that Westall thought that if she had not all the pensive and serious beauty which Deborah had attributed to her , she possessed a variety and animation that were more in harmony with the spring-time of life . 
If the ladies walked , and the mother flattered herself that by her skilful disposition she had secured Charles 's attendance to Caroline , he was sure to revert to Ellen 's side in some direct way , that distanced manoeuvring -- if he read aloud , at every fine passage his eye appealed to Ellen -- in every conversation they expressed almost simultaneously the same sentiment . 
There was something startling in the tone of Mr. Redwood 's voice , for Ellen , who was sitting beside Mrs. Allen at one extremity of the room , let fall a book which she was intently perusing , and looked involuntarily at him : and Mrs. Westall said with a smile , `` you remind me of one of my dear Edmund 's sentimental fancies -- he thought you were in love with Mary . '' 
Ellen brought one from an adjoining room . 
Mr. Redwood spoke quick and with a tremulous voice , he knew that he had betrayed emotion , and anxious to put a stop to the conversation , he turned suddenly to Ellen , and asked her what book she was reading . 
Ellen read aloud , but she had not read far when Caroline entered with Charles Westall ; and she laid aside her book while the turban was discussed . 
`` But , Miss Bruce , '' he said , addressing Ellen , `` I entreat that we may not interrupt your reading . '' 
`` No , Miss Ellen , '' said Mr. Redwood , `` they must not -- I as an invalid have a right to be humoured -- I beg you will proceed . '' 
Ellen resumed the book , and read with feeling and expression the ever-memorable scene of Colambre 's declaration to Grace Nugent , till she came to the passage where Colambre says , there is an ` invincible obstacle ' to their union . 
Mr. Redwood looked to Westall for a reply ; he perceived his question had disconcerted him -- he looked at Ellen , her face was crimson -- the application that had been made of the fictitious incident instantly flashed across his mind . 
Ellen took a long breath , and oppressed with the consciousness of feelings which she feared to expose , she experienced the greatest relief from an opportunity that was afforded her to escape from the apartment , without attracting observation to herself , by Deborah 's appearance at the door with a letter in her hand , and a summons to Mrs. Lenox . 
Westall took up the book Ellen had laid down : his eyes seemed spell-bound to the page she had been reading , for Mr. Redwood -LRB- whose vigilance was now thoroughly awakened , -RRB- observed that he did not turn the leaf ; and Mr. Redwood had himself an ample fund for meditation in the possibility that had now for the first time occurred to him that Ellen , the undesigning artless Ellen , might frustrate his long cherished project . 
In the evening , after Mrs. Westall and her son had returned to the village , and Miss Redwood had retired to her apartment , Mr. Redwood was still sitting in the parlour , reading some newspapers which had been received by the day 's mail , when Ellen entered , and after apologising for interrupting him , said , `` that she had just determined on leaving Eton in the morning , and she was not willing to go without expressing her gratitude to Mr. Redwood for the kind attentions he had bestowed on her . '' 
Mr. Redwood , after expressing his surprise and regret , inquired the cause of this sudden arrangement , and Ellen stated to him that Mrs. Allen had just received a letter from Emily , in which , without expressly allowing that she was unhappy , she betrayed discontent -- It professed to be written merely to inform her grandmother that ` she was well , and that she hoped she was enjoying the same blessing ; ' she said ` it was a big cross she had taken up ; that all that called themselves shakers , were not shakers indeed ; that wherever there were true disciples , there was also a Judas ; that she had many thoughts of her grandmother , and sometimes it was so much in her heart to go home to her , that she believed that she had a call to leave `` the people ; '' but that her elder sister , who was gifted to interpret , told her such thoughts were temptation . ' 
The conclusion of the letter , Ellen said , was evidently drenched with the poor girl 's tears . 
She had written one sentence repeatedly , and as often crossed it out ; they had been able , after many vain attempts , to decipher it ; it ran thus : -- `` I send my kind remembrance , as in duty bound , to James Lenox , for all his goodness to my natural brother , and to me in times past : tell James also , that if he knew what trouble some people have , he would not blame them , but he would pity them from his heart . '' 
`` This , Sir , '' continued Ellen , `` is to you an unmeaning jargon ; but we , from our knowledge of poor Emily , infer from it that she is tired of her unnatural seclusion ; that her early attachment to James has revived , in spite of her dutiful efforts to extinguish it ; and we have fears that she is suffering persecution in some way which she dare not communicate . 
`` It has been determined in a family conference , '' replied Ellen , `` that an effort shall be made to rescue Emily . 
Mr. Redwood inquired ` if it were possible that she would undertake such an enterprise with no protector but Deborah ? ' 
Ellen assured him ` that nothing was more common or safe , than for females to travel from one extremity of New-England to the other , without any other safeguard than the virtue and civility of the inhabitants ; that where there was no danger there was no need of protection , and that for her own part she should esteem her good friend Deborah 's right arm as sufficient a defence for these modern times , as a gallant knight or baron bold would have been in the days of danger and of chivalry . ' 
Ellen frankly confessed that she felt a little squeamishness on that account : `` but , Sir , '' said she , `` I never could forgive myself , if I permitted a foolish scruple of that kind to prevent me from rendering an essential service to the Allens . 
Mr. Redwood commended her motive , and half an hour after was perhaps glad that it controlled her , but at this moment his reluctance to part with her overcame his apprehension that she might possibly interfere with the accomplishment of his favourite project -- he earnestly urged delay ; but Ellen said there were domestic reasons for their going at once which she could not oppose . 
Oh Ellen ! '' 
he continued with emotion , and fixing his melancholy eye steadfastly on her , `` you little dream of the supernatural power your face possesses over my feelings -- my memory : there are thoughts that quite unman me ; '' he clasped his hands and was silent , while Ellen awaited in amazement and trembling expectation what he should next say : but after a moment 's pause , he resumed his composure and proceeded in his ordinary tone . 
`` Your society , Ellen , has been a cordial to my weary spirit . 
I have worn out the world ; but here in this still place , amid these quiet scenes , where the sweet spirit of contentment dwells , here , '' he added , taking Ellen 's hand , `` where I have seen that it is possible to forego the display of talent and the gratification of taste , to practise the obscure virtues which are the peculiar boast of your religion -- the virtues silent and secret , that neither ask nor expect earthly notice or reward -- here I have felt a new influence -- I have seemed to breathe a purer , a heavenly air -- and I have sometimes hoped '' -- `` What , Sir , what ? '' 
exclaimed Ellen , eagerly . 
said Ellen . 
It is a beautiful illusion ; but I have outlived all illusions , Ellen : the man can not return to the leading-strings of infancy -- he can not unlearn his philosophy -- he can not forget his experience . '' 
`` But he can examine if his philosophy be the true one -- Oh , Mr. Redwood '' -- Ellen blushed and faltered , her heart was overflowing -- but the natural timidity of a woman in the presence of a man , her elder and her superior , restrained her : she was frightened at her own daring -- and while she hesitated , Mr. Redwood said , `` spare yourself any farther trouble about me , Ellen -- I am too rigid to bend to a new yoke . 
Ellen , you are worthy of all confidence , and I will venture to tell you , what indeed you may have already discerned , that I am extremely desirous to ally my daughter with Charles Westall . 
Mr. Redwood perceived that Ellen was embarrassed , and he proceeded , `` I will not tax your sincerity , Miss Bruce ; my daughter has faults , great faults -- still she has splendid attractions : her beauty might gratify the pride of any man -- her fortune is immense -- and if she has faults , why I know no one so likely to cure them as Charles Westall . 
Ellen walked to the window and threw up the sash . 
`` Perfectly well , '' she replied , `` but the evening is oppressively warm . '' 
`` I believe it is not very warm , '' replied Ellen , closing the window . 
`` I am a little fatigued with the preparations for our journey , '' she added , re-seating herself with her face averted from Mr. Redwood . 
Ellen after making a vain effort to reply with composure , stammered out , that `` Miss Redwood certainly must know , and Miss Redwood had said '' -- Here she hesitated again , and Mr. Redwood compassionating her embarrassment , said , `` you are right , Ellen ; you are too prudent to flatter my wishes . '' 
Ellen , anxious to avail herself of this moment , rose , and giving Mr. Redwood her hand , bade him farewell ; he reiterated his expression of interest and kindness , and they parted . 
thought Mr. Redwood , as she closed the door ; `` it is as I suspected : the most virtuous seem always the most persecuted by destiny . 
Believing as he had , that the best owe most of their virtue to the applause of society , or to the flattery of their little world ; the unostentatious goodness of Ellen -LRB- dignified as he deemed her by talents and improvement -RRB- had made a deep and ineffaceable impression on him . 
He sate for a long time meditating on her character and singular history ; he thought that if there were ever two beings formed to make a joyous path over this wilderness world , they were Ellen and Westall . 
Mr. Redwood had an unconquerable wish to bestow some benefit on Ellen . 
He had none in his power but of a pecuniary nature , and that it was difficult to offer without offending her delicacy . 
Ellen retired to her room to occupy herself with the preparations for her journey . 
Her wardrobe was simple , but neat , and not inelegant . 
The costume in which a lady of fortune had figured twenty years gone by , would have been quite too antique , but , happily , Ellen 's taste and ingenuity enabled her gracefully to adapt it to her own person and the fashion of the day . 
The journey she was about to undertake was a long one , and , in obedience to the wise caution of Mrs. Lenox , she prepared for any delay that might occurr ; a prudence enforced by Deborah , who said that as she had not journied for twenty years , she should not hurry home . 
A wish suddenly arose in Ellen 's mind that she could impart the truths and consolations of that book to Mr. Redwood . 
If she was enthusiastic , who can blame an enthusiasm so benevolent ? 
She wrapped the book with this short note in an envelope : -- `` My dear Mr. Redwood , accept and value this treasure for the sake of your friend Ellen Bruce , may I not say for your own sake -- God bless you . '' 
She left the pacquet with Mrs. Lenox to be delivered after her departure . 
Ellen obeyed the first impulse of her feeling , and moved towards the parlour door : she felt her heart beating violently , and surprised and alarmed at her own agitation , she retreated reluctantly to her apartment . 
` Perhaps , ' she thought , ` Mr. Redwood will tell him that I am going away , and he will ask to see me ' -- but soon after she heard him shut the parlour door -- heard him go out of the house -- and at the last sound of his retiring footsteps she burst into tears ; shocked at the discovery of her own feelings , she hastily undressed , and threw herself on the bed in the hope that sleep would dispel the images that crowded her mind , but sleep she could not . 
In the multitude of her thoughts ; her anxiety for Emily , her concern at leaving Mrs. Allen , her regret at parting with Mr. Redwood , there was still one that predominated over every other . 
Ellen tried to persuade herself that she had no other interest in it than that benevolent one which it was natural and right to feel in Westall 's happiness : but alas ! 
the melancholy result of her ` maiden meditation , ' was that she was not ` fancy free ; ' and , involuntarily , she covered her face with her hands as if she would have hidden from her own consciousness the tears and blushes which the discovery cost her . 
At this moment she was startled by a loud shriek from Caroline . 
said Caroline , still continuing her fixed gaze on Ellen , `` bring the light nearer , Ellen . 
`` Oh Ellen , I thought I saw you and Westall standing together on the summit of that rock on the lake-shore ; and there was a soft silvery cloud floating just over you , it parted , and I saw a beautiful spiritual creature bending from it ; her garments of light floated on the bright cloud ; she had a chaplet of white flowers in her hand like those you plucked for me : while I was gazing to see if she would place it on your head ; the earth trembled where I stood , a frightful chasm yawned before me , and my father was hurling me into it , when I awoke . '' 
`` It was a strange dream , '' said Ellen , with a melancholy smile . 
inquired Ellen , who began to think Caroline had really lost her senses . 
Ellen explained to Caroline that she was to leave Eton in the morning , and should not return for some weeks . 
exclaimed Caroline , springing from the bed , entirely unable to control the relief she felt from Ellen 's information . 
Ellen rose also : she said nothing , but her face expressed so plainly : `` In what have I offended ? '' 
Ellen was confounded with this sudden burst of passion . 
`` I know not , Miss Redwood , '' she said , calmly , `` what you mean by your insinuations . 
`` Really , Miss Ellen Bruce , you flatter yourself they have all passed current with us simple ones -- the trumpery story about the box -- a fine Arabian night 's entertainment , truly ; your dragging that old woman day after day into the parlour to practise your benevolence upon , as the milliners display their fashions on their blocks ; the pretty tale of the blind girl , admirably got up to be sure , with a hundred other inferior instances of your mode of practice upon the romantic unsuspecting Westall . '' 
Ellen could have borne unmoved Caroline 's malice , but the thought of the odious light in which she should be presented to Westall quite overcame her fortitude . 
`` I could not have believed Mrs. Westall so ungenerous -- so unjust , '' said she , bursting into tears . 
Mrs. Lenox tapped at the door to say that Deborah was in readiness , and to beg Ellen to despatch her preparations . 
Mrs. Lenox 's voice operated as a sedative upon Caroline : she sat down and fixed her eyes on Ellen , while she with trembling hands proceeded to array herself for her departure . 
When every thing was in readiness , she approached Caroline , and said with a faltering voice , `` Miss Redwood , I forgive you ; may God forgive your unkind , unnatural treatment of one who never injured you in thought , word , or deed . 
To God , '' she continued , with a solemnity that appalled Caroline , `` to God , my father and my friend , I commit my cause -- I have no earthly protector , and I need none . 
Ellen 's words touched her with a feeling of remorse , and awakened appalling fears : her passions were turbulent , but not yet hardened into the resolution of one inured to the practice of evil . 
As Ellen turned from her she started from the bed and exclaimed , `` stay , Ellen Bruce , stay -- give me one moment 's time . '' 
Ellen paused and looked at her with mute amazement , while she walked the room in the agony of indecision . 
Ellen 's last words struck upon her ear like the voice of prophecy . 
She imagined that her innocent victim was wrested from her , and that she beheld the visible interposition of Heaven in her behalf -- that chasm , that dark deep frightful chasm , yawned before her , and the thought that she could in no way close it up but by the restoration of the rifled treasure came to her like an impulse from a good spirit : obedient to it she had risen from the bed , but she faltered in the execution of her good purpose ; she shrunk from the train of evils that her busy thoughts suggested : the certain loss of Westall -- Ellen 's advancement to fortune , rank and fashion equal to her own -- the exposure of her own baseness -- that she could not brook ; and ` I can not humble myself to her , ' was the mental conclusion of her deliberations ` When she is gone , I can , if I choose , restore the articles as secretly as I took them ; the discovery will then be delayed -- Westall secured . ' 
This feeble intention to render imperfect justice quieted her conscience : while she was deliberating what gloss she should put on her mysterious conduct , Deborah opened the door . 
Come , Ellen , come , what signifies losing any more lost time ? '' 
Ellen assured Deborah she was quite ready ; and Deborah , who would not on compulsion have performed a menial service for a queen , took Ellen 's trunk in her arms , and commanding her to follow ` with the nick-nacks , ' she left the apartment . 
Ellen looked inquiringly at Caroline : `` I have nothing farther to say , Miss Bruce . '' 
`` Then , farewell , '' said Ellen . 
Our travellers had proceeded a few miles , when Deborah thought she might give Ellen the pacquet with which she had been entrusted , without violating the letter of Mr. Redwood 's direction . 
Her surprise surpassed Ellen 's when she beheld its contents . 
She begged her to read the letter aloud . 
-- Ellen read it with a trembling voice . 
`` Oh Ellen , I wish he had you for his child , instead of that -- ; never mind , I 'll overlook her for the sake of her father -- count the money , girl , count it , -- you ca n't , '' she added , looking at Ellen , whose eyes were overflowing , `` give it to me : my sight is rather dull too , '' and she dashed off the tears that clouded her vision , `` five hundred is it ! 
you are rich , you are an heiress , Ellen . '' 
`` I am , indeed , '' replied Ellen , `` rich in kind friends , but this money , Miss Deborah , must be returned . '' 
No , no , Ellen , when the rich give , let the poor receive and be thankful ; that is always encouragement to them to go on . 
it would be a slighting o ' Providence to return it , Ellen -- quite out of all reason and nature . 
It was impossible for Ellen to communicate all the motives that led her to decline a pecuniary favour from Miss Redwood 's father ; but she suggested reasons which she thought would appeal to her companion 's characteristic independence . 
The veteran maiden opposed them all -- she had advanced into the cold climate of worldly prudence , but Ellen was at that age when sentiment controls interest . 
In vain Debby continued her remonstrances . 
Ellen , heedless of them all , wrote with a pencil an affecting expression of her gratitude on the envelope of the pacquet , and reversing it , she directed it to Mr. Redwood , intending to procure at the next village a trusty person to re-convey it to Eton . 
Deborah thought it was time to perform that kind office for her steed ; she alighted to arrange the bridle , and desiring Ellen to drive through the stream , said she would herself walk up the hill on the other side . 
As Ellen reined her horse into the narrow way , she encountered Westall , who had gone out on horse-back for a morning ride . 
he exclaimed , with a tone and expression of delight that changed instantly on noticing her riding dress , and other indications of travelling . 
Ellen communicated as briefly as possible the object of her journey , and the place of her destination . 
Ellen , usually sufficiently accomplished in the art of driving , now , from some cause or other , seemed as maladroit as most women : she pulled the wrong rein , and was , or Westall thought she was , in imminent danger of an overturn . 
He dismounted from his horse , and springing into the chaise beside her , took upon himself the conduct of affairs . 
As he paused there , Ellen said , with the best voice she could command , `` I thank you for your assistance ; I must proceed now -- Deborah waits for me . '' 
`` It is unnecessary -- I already have heard from Mr. Redwood what you would say , '' replied Ellen , confused , and shrinking from the communication , which her conversation with Mr. Redwood the preceding evening led her to anticipate . 
`` Not he , but his daughter , '' answered Ellen . 
reiterated Westall , and was proceeding to entreat Ellen to explain herself , when they were both startled by a hoarse and impatient call from Deborah , who was evidently drawing near to them with rapid strides . 
`` Ellen ! '' 
The lovers were too much confounded to make any reply , and Deborah , apprehending some fatal disaster to Ellen , doubled her speed , and darting into the path that led to the watering place , quickly arrived in full view of the objects of her search and alarm . 
Deborah , at a single glance , ascertained the safety of Ellen , and of the horse , and approaching the latter , she patted him , saying , `` I think you have the most sense of the three ; if you had not been dumb , poor beast , you would not have let me run the breath out of my body without answering me a word . '' 
Is it your will and pleasure , Miss Ellen , to proceed ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' replied Ellen . 
Miss Bruce , '' he added , turning to Ellen , `` I entreat you to grant me a few moments -- it may be the last favour I shall ever ask of you -- Miss Deborah will drive slowly up the hill -- the path is shaded from the morning sun -- you will not find the walk unpleasant '' -- `` You forget , young man , '' interposed Debby , `` which way the sun shines this morning ; when I came down the road , it was hot enough to boil all the blood in my veins '' -- `` Ellen , '' continued Westall , unheeding in his eagerness Deborah 's cross-cut , `` do not , do not deny me this favour . '' 
`` Why , Ellen , '' said Debby , `` what ails you girl why should you deny it ? '' 
Some gleams of light had flashed athwart Ellen 's mind , that rendered her less reluctant than she had been at the onset , to listen to a communication from Westall . 
She suffered him to hand her out of the chaise ; and Deborah , assuming the reins , and setting off the horse ` en connoisseur , ' said , she had the advantage now , for if they forgot her , she could ride instead of walking back . 
Westall , after saying he was sure there was some misunderstanding -- Caroline Redwood was the last person in the world to whom he should confide any sentiment that interested him , proceeded to make a frank declaration of the unqualified affection which Ellen had inspired . 
When he paused Ellen made no reply ; and he proceeded , while he urged his suit , to say , with the consistency usual on such occasions , that he knew he had no right to expect a return , that her abrupt departure alone could , and that must , justify his obtruding on her his feelings and his hopes , after so brief an acquaintance . 
Ellen was all simplicity and truth , and in other circumstances she would not , she could not have withheld from Westall the confession that would have been to him -- heaven to hear . 
She had not a particle of coquetry , and she would not have delayed the confession for a moment for the pleasure of feeling her power . 
Various feelings struggled for mastery in her bosom ; first , and perhaps ruling every other , was the delightful consciousness of possessing Westall 's affections ; then came the thought of the mystery that hung over her parentage -- it had never before inflicted such an exquisite pang as at this moment ; and last and most painful , was the remembrance of Mrs. Westall 's unkind suspicions , and of the malicious interpretation Caroline Redwood had given to her actions . 
While she hesitated in what terms to reply , Westall said , `` there is then , Ellen , no feeling in your heart that pleads for my rashness ? '' 
`` It is indeed rashness , after so brief an acquaintance , to commit your happiness '' -- `` Oh , Ellen , '' interrupted Westall , `` I meant rather presumption that rashness . '' 
`` Whatever it is , let us both forget it , '' replied Ellen , in a tone of affected calmness that would have indicated repressed emotion to a cooler observer than Westall ; `` it is time that we should part , and we must part as we met -- strangers . '' 
`` Have you not , then , Ellen , a spark of kindness for me , which years of the most devoted affection and service might kindle ? 
Ellen , in a broken voice , alluded to the possibility that her name was a dishonoured one ; `` a possibility , '' she said , `` which ought to set an impassable barrier to her affections . '' 
`` If , '' he said , `` the worst she could apprehend should prove true , it should be the business , the happiness of his life to make her forget it . '' 
Ellen felt that her scruples were yielding to the impetuous feeling of her lover . 
She was silent for some time , and when she did speak , her voice was faltering , and her opposition such as a lover might hope to overcome . 
`` At least , '' he said , `` Ellen , delay this journey one day ; do not now make an irrevocable decision ; return to Eton ; let my mother join her entreaties to mine . '' 
The thought of Westall 's mother re-invigorated Ellen 's dying resolution . 
`` Urge me no farther , Mr. Westall , '' said she , `` I have not been so happy as to obtain your mother 's esteem , and were every other obstacle removed , I never would obtrude myself on her undesired ; no -- nor unsolicited . '' 
`` My mother , Ellen ? '' 
-- `` My mother , Ellen , '' he continued , in a subdued tone , `` has been dazzled by gilded dreams long indulged -- but she is kind , affectionate -- and will , I am certain , be easily reconciled to any step on which she knows my happiness depends . '' 
`` It would not , '' replied Ellen , `` be very consolatory to me if she should become reconciled to an inevitable evil . 
I have already listened too long , '' she added , and casting her eye towards Deborah , who had halted under the broad shadow of an elm tree on the summit of the hill , she hurried forward . 
Ellen could not trust her voice to answer ; but when she had reached the chaise , she turned and gave him her hand : her eloquent face -LRB- not governed by the law she had imposed on her tongue -RRB- expressed any thing but insensibility . 
`` God reward you , '' she said , `` for your generous purpose -- we must now part . '' 
`` And to meet again , '' replied Westall , while he fervently kissed the hand she had extended to him , `` as surely as there is truth in heaven . '' 
Ellen sunk back into her seat , and hid her face with her handkerchief , while honest Debby , heartily sympathising in the evident affliction of the lovers , said in a whining voice , that contrasted ludicrously enough with her customary harsh tone , `` Good bye to you , Mr. Westall -- good bye to you , Sir -- it is hard parting ; but keep a good heart -- we shall all three meet again in the Lord 's own time . '' 
Deborah exercised on this occasion that discretion resulting from good sense and good feeling , which in all its modifications still preserves the convenient designation of tact : she left Ellen to the operation of her feelings , without molesting her with a remark or inquiry . 
Ellen resigned herself for a little while to emotions the more violent for having been repressed . 
The same fountain had to her sent forth sweet and bitter waters . 
If the uncertainty of her fate , and the anguish of parting with Westall were evils nearly intolerable , there was a heart-cheering consciousness of the treasure she had acquired in his affections -- there was the sweetest consolation in the thought that there was one who felt with her and for her ; and the recollection of Westall 's last words was like the bright gleam along the western horizon , that , smiling in triumph at the dark overhanging clouds , speaks a sure promise of a fair coming day . 
As for Westall , after the few first moments of absolute despair , he began to think the case not quite desperate ; and though Ellen had not spoken a word of encouragement on which he might suspend a hope , neither had she said or intimated that there existed in her feelings any obstacle to his wishes ; there were certain tones and expressions which are the universal language of tenderness , that he had noticed , and which he now laid up in his memory and cherished there , as the faithful fix their eyes on the twilight of prophecy . 
He perceived that the tone of the ladies ' spirits was raised , -LRB- as was indeed too plain -RRB- by Ellen 's departure . 
The thought that this might be the first step towards leaving the society , flitted across her mind , but without forming any distinct purpose , she hastily penned the letter , which was the occasion of Ellen 's abrupt departure from Eton . 
She then stationed herself at a door that opened into one of the passages through which the visitors were to pass ; and arresting the attention of a romantic young lady who was in the rear of the throng , she slipped the letter into her hand , unobserved by any one , and entreating her to convey it safely to some post-office , she disappeared , leaving her confidant quite elated with the trust which had been confided to her by the pale interesting little shaker , and which she discharged , as has been seen , with laudable fidelity . 
Whilethe transactions so fatal to the peace of Emily Allen were going on , Deborah and Ellen were quietly pursuing their journey , though not as expeditiously as Ellen could have wished . 
She had not , as has been seen , left Eton in the most tranquil state of mind ; and she was perhaps more impatient at the little accidents that retarded their progress , than she would have been at another time , or under other circumstances . 
Ellen often felt inclined to remonstrate against these repeated delays ; but Deborah was so much accustomed to exercise the petty tyranny of having her own way , that Ellen rightly concluded it would be much easier for her to acquiesce , than for Deborah to relinquish her habitual control . 
The raised voices of the different parties attracted several persons to the windows and door of the inn , and Ellen felt herself rather awkwardly situated as she stood awaiting the termination of Deborah 's arrangements . 
The attention was now withdrawn from Deborah to Ellen , and each observer probably noticed the disparity between the supposed mother and daughter . 
Ellen 's ear caught enough of these remarks as she passed along , to inform her that she was the subject of them ; and her embarrasmeut was increased when the landlord opened the parlour door to usher her in , and she perceived that the room was already occupied by a large party of travellers -- she shrunk back , and begged her conductor to show her to a private apartment . 
The young lady at the door observed Ellen 's embarrassment , and advancing , with a mixture of good-nature and graceful politeness , begged Ellen to enter . 
`` Our party , '' she said , `` is of such an unconscionable size ! 
A smile and a bow from Ellen expressed her sense of the proffered courtesy , and she passed and seated herself at an unoccupied window . 
`` You are a rash woman , Miss Campbell , '' said the gentleman in a low voice , whom Ellen had first seen at the door , and who had followed her to the parlour . 
She had been excessively provoked at Miss Campbell 's contempt , or at best indifference for her , but , having no alternative , she made to herself a great merit of forgiveness , obliged to suppress her wrath against Miss Campbell , she meant to indemnify herself by wreaking her vengeance on the innocent stranger , and when she spoke , she spoke calmly , but loud enough to be heard by Ellen . 
`` Miss Grace , '' she said , `` there is much excuse for one who is ignorant of the presumption of the common people : you have lived for the most part in town , where you did not come in contact with them . '' 
I love the common people -- an unpardonable sin it may be , Mrs. Norton , but I do love them -- I love to see the undisciplined movements of natural feeling -- I sympathise with their unaffected griefs -- I love to witness their hearty pleasures -- I had rather receive the expression of their cordial good-will than the compliments of a successful winter 's campaign -- '' `` For heaven 's sake tell me , cousin Grace , '' said a gentleman who was standing near to her , `` are you addressing this tirade in favour of rusticity to Mrs. Norton or to Howard ? '' 
She walked up to a small looking-glass -- threw aside her bonnet , and began smoothing her refractory locks with a pocket-comb , while she recounted to Ellen , in her homeliest phrase , and with the exultation of a victor , her success in securing the best hospitalities of the manger for her good steed , and boasted that like a faithful mistress , she had insisted on being an eye-witness of his accommodations . 
It must be confessed that Ellen felt a little disturbed at the ludicrous figure her companion made in the eyes of the fashionable party who were observing her . 
She perceived that the mirth of the young people was only kept within decent limits by the gravity of their elders , and that gravity was maintained by a difficult effort . 
She averted her eyes and looked out of the window , when Deborah who had finished her toilette , and was surveying some pictures that garnished the walls , again exacted her attention . 
`` For the land 's sake , Ellen , '' she said `` come and look at these pictures and tell me what this means -- here is something that puzzles me ; '' and she fixed her eyes on an embroidered Hector and Andromache , the fruit at least of three months ' labour of one of the young lady artists of the inn . 
`` Maybe Miss , '' she added , with an earnest manner , which indicated that a very slight observation of Miss Campbell had inspired a great respect for her powers , `` maybe Miss , you can help Ellen explain these outlandish names that puzzle me . 
`` They are fancy names I imagine , '' said Ellen , willing to avoid an explanation . 
Deborah poured forth her comments without heeding the whispers , the stares and smiles that her oddity excited ; but Ellen saw and heard all ; and more pained that her honest friend should be the subject of ridicule , than mortified on her own account , she drew her out of the room into the little piazza in front of the house , and earnestly recommended their proceeding on their journey immediately . 
Her arguments however had no weight with Deborah ; but while she still urged them , their attention was attracted by an alarming outcry . 
Deborah and Ellen darted forward at the same instant -- Deborah attempted to stop the horse : she failed in that , but the force of her arm turned him aside from his course , while Ellen snatched the child , and turning , placed it in the arms of its mother , who had just reached the door , and trembling , almost fainting , extended them to receive her child . 
The whole party from the parlour now surrounded Deborah and Ellen . 
The brothers and sisters crowded about , and embraced the little boy who seemed to wonder why he had caused such emotion ; while Miss Campbell advancing to Ellen , and gracefully offering her hand , said , that her `` llittle ` scape-death cousin had obtained for her the right to beg the name and acquaintance of her whose kind intervention had saved his life . '' 
She proceeded to lavish praises on Ellen for her prompt courage ; but Ellen modestly declined them , saying , she had been impelled by instinct to the action , and was quite unconscious of any danger till it was past . 
Ellen 's manners , without any of the awkwardness or gaucherie of bashfulness or ignorance , were timid , and , with strangers , rather reserved and retiring ; while Miss Campbell had the assured air of one who has held a high command in society , and whose right and habit it was to take the lead in the world of fashion . 
Ellen , with one of the sweetest voices in the world , talked in rather a low tone -- the style of her conversation was unambitious and simple , and though it often took a rich colouring from the bright rays of genius and feeling , like those glowing hues which fall on the summer landscape , and which no contrivance of art can produce or imitate , there was nothing said to court attention or excite admiration . 
She would have been at a loss to comprehend the feeling that suffused Ellen 's face with blushes , and imparted tremulousness to her voice , when she found herself the object of an admiring observation . 
Mrs. Armstead , anxious to improve her brief opportunity of expressing her gratitude , lavished her attentions on Ellen , placed her next herself at table , and melted away all reserve by the warmth of her kindness . 
While the servants were adjusting some light baggage , dried fruits and cakes for the young people , the late publications for their elders , & c. & c. Miss Campbell said to Ellen , `` you must allow me to borrow a New-England phrase , to ask whither you are ` journeying ? ' 
`` It is not impossible we may , '' replied Ellen , `` for my companion has just announced to me , that if we are successful in attaining the object of our coming to this vicinity , she intends visiting Lebanon springs for a few days . '' 
`` Successful or not successful , Ellen , '' interrupted Deborah , `` I shall go to the pool , for I hear those waters are a master-cure for the rheutmatis . '' 
Ellen gracefully returned her thanks to each and all , while Deborah , quite ignorant of the tactics of the polite world , comprehended nothing of the offered civility , but that it was meant in kindness , and therefore deserved the hearty thanks which she replied to it . 
The two parties now proceeded to make their adieus ; and the young ladies , each as they took Ellen 's hand , slipped on her finger a ring , which they begged her to take for a keepsake . 
Ellen listened in silence while she gazed with the eye of an amateur upon this beautiful country , which possesses all the elements of the picturesque . 
A sudden exclamation from Deborah fixed Ellen 's attention to one spot in the wide spread landscape . 
`` As I live , '' she said , `` there is the very place at last -- see , Ellen , the yellow houses they told us of . '' 
Ellen turned her eye to the long line of habitations of a uniform colour and appearance , which , stretching along the plain and sheltered by the surrounding hills , seem sequestered from the world , and present an aspect of peace and comfort , if not of happiness . 
Ellen , as others have done , wondered that this strange people , who in their austere judgment would condemn the delight that springs from natural beauty as the gratification of the ` lust of the eye , ' should have selected a spot of such peculiar charms . 
`` Then , '' thought Ellen , `` it may be that the maxim , the useful is the beautiful , '' holds good in relation to our mother earth , and that she lavishes her smiles upon those of her loyal children who seek her favours : sure I am , no professed admirers of the beauties of nature -- no connoisseur in all the charms of the various combinations of mountain and valley , pasture hills and rich meadows , dashing streams and quiet lakes , could have selected a more beautiful residence than this . '' 
Her meditations were suddenly cut short by another exclamation from Deborah , who had now turned an angle in the road and entered the village street . 
Just look here , Ellen , at this little bright stream , '' and she pointed to a small rivulet that sparkled like a chain of burnished silver in the sunbeams ; `` see where it comes racing down the hill yonder , and here , where it crosses the street , it darts under ground as if to hide its capers from these solemn people -- the thing has sense in it . '' 
Ellen smiled , and asked `` if it would not be well to imitate its discretion , and inquire at which house they should find the elder sister Susan ? '' 
Deborah immediately stopped her horse , and waited for the coming up of one of the brethren , who was approaching them from an adjoining field . 
She spent the few moments of waiting in admiring the large richly stocked garden , without weeds or waste places , the fine stone-posts to the fences , the neatly sawn wood , piled with mathematical exactness , the clean swept street , and all the neat arrangements of the shaker economy , so striking to an eye accustomed only to the slipshod ways of our country people . 
In the meanwhile Ellen was looking eagerly at the windows of a large house near which they had halted , to discern if possible the well-known features of Susan , or Emily , or any of the sisters who , as they passed the windows like shadows , stole an inquiring glance at the travellers . 
When the man had arrived within speaking distance , Deborah asked , `` if he would be so good as to direct her where she could find Susan Allen ! '' 
`` Yea , '' he replied , `` she dwells there ; '' and he pointed to the large house Ellen was surveying . 
`` Much thanks for his information , '' said Debby , who felt too conscious of the liberty of free inquiry at all times and places , to need the permission granted in a manner so surly . 
`` Can we then , '' asked Ellen , `` see Emily Allen ? '' 
exclaimed the sister , put a little off her guard by surprise , and then after a momentary pause and without making any explanations , she added , `` I will acquaint elder sister that there are strangers here -- if she knows who you are she may choose to see ye -- be pleased to give me your names . '' 
She had scarcely given Deborah and Ellen time to interchange their mutual apprehensions , ere she returned and bade them follow her . 
She led them up stairs and through a long passage to the elder sister 's apartment , only distinguished from the others by being larger and more commodious -- their conductor showed them into the room and then left them , closing the door after her . 
Susan was seated with her back to the door -- on hearing it close she rose from her chair with an apparent effort , like one enfeebled by disease , and advanced towards Deborah and Ellen . 
Her face was ghastly pale , but there was no other sign of emotion . 
She gave a hand to each of her visitors , and said faintly , `` ye are welcome -- sit down , sit down . '' 
They obeyed her and she reseated herself ; a dead silence followed -- even Deborah , fearless as she was , was awed into the deference of a momentary silence by the imposing solemnity of Susan 's deportment . 
echoed Deborah and Ellen in the same breath ; `` how -- what is it you mean -- she is not dead , surely ? '' 
Terrifying and incomprehensible as were Susan 's words , neither Deborah nor Ellen ventured another question . 
Ellen was filled with frightful apprehensions for Emily 's fate , and yet she knew not how to frame an inquiry about her . 
Ellen inquired if nothing had been heard of the fugitive since their departure . 
But , oh Ellen ! '' 
she concluded , `` there is nothing to hope for -- there is nothing more to fear -- the worst has happened . '' 
Ellen would not allow the case to be desperate ; not that she could see any rational ground for favourable expectations , but hope is the happy instinct of youth . 
She showed Susan Emily 's letter to her Eton friends , which at least intimated a wish to leave the society ; she hinted at the attachment she believed Emily to have cherished for James Lenox , and she finished with expressing the belief that the poor girl had been the innocent dupe of Harrington 's artifices , and had availed herself of his departure , as affording her an opportunity of returning to her friends . 
At another time this would have sounded like harsh consolation to Susan ; but now , in comparison with what she feared , this was innocence and happiness , and she eagerly grasped at Ellen 's suggestions . 
`` God grant it , '' she reiterated . 
`` Oh had I but known , Ellen , that it was in the child 's heart to go back to you , I would have given her up as freely as Abraham yielded up Isaac . 
It would have been but honestly following her light , and though but a dim one , still she would have been saved from this utter ruin -- and now if I could believe that she had fallen innocently , I might weep for her -- yea , I mustweep for her , but not these bitter hopeless tears . '' 
Ellen entreated her to mitigate her grief , at least till she had more certain knowledge of the motives of Emily 's departure . 
Susan evidently felt humbled to find herself the subject of the compassionate efforts of even the loveliest of the world 's people ; but she yielded insensibly to Ellen 's beneficent influence , and even admitted that there was some consolation in her rational suggestions . 
Deborah had tact enough to perceive this was too delicate a case for her handling -- quite out of her province , and beyond her skill ; and therefore she had remained silent till she perceived that the elder sister was tranquillized , and that Ellen had expended all her consolatory arguments ; she then , like a prudent officer , thought it best to retreat before another occasion for action should discover that their strength was exhausted , and she abruptly proposed their departure . 
Ellen , grieved to think they had no reason for delay , assented ; and Susan , who at another time would have insisted on performing the rites of hospitality to friends that she both valued and loved , silently acquiesced , probably deeming it prudent in the present state of her feelings to exclude every exciting cause . 
Before parting , she promised to despatch a messenger to Lebanon springs -LRB- whither Deborah informed her that she and Ellen were going , and should remain for a few days -RRB- with any intelligence that she might receive of the fugitives : she then summoned one of the sisters , and having requested her to provide some refreshments for her friends , she bade them farewell with her usual composure , save a little faltering of the voice , and trembling of the lip . 
It was covered with a cloth of the purest white by one of the sisters , who lingered in adjusting it , smoothing down the folds , pulling it first on one side , and then on the other , till this artifice of her innocent vanity had succeeded , and Deborah 's liberal praises were bestowed on the delicate manufacture which had employed the skill and taste of the sisterhood . 
She was yielding to the hospitable solicitations of the sister in attendance , and taking her fifth cup of tea , when Ellen reminded her a second time that the sun was fast declining , and that without despatch , they should be overtaken by the night before they reached Lebanon . 
Ellen ` smind had been so filled with commiseration for Susan ; she was so much more in the habit of attending to others ' feelings than her own , that until she had turned her back upon the shaker village , she did not feel the full weight of her own disappointment in regard to Emily . 
After expressing some conjecture as to the uncertain fate of the poor girl -- bewailing alternately her folly and her misfortunes , and anticipating with compassion the effect of this last severest stroke upon the old grandmother -- she subsided into silence , and permitted Ellen to pursue her sad meditations undisturbed . 
She was at length awakened from them by the deepening of the twilight , and after a slight observation of the road , she asked Deborah `` if she was quite sure she had not mistaken her way ? '' 
`` However , '' she said , `` it can be , Ellen , but four or five miles to the pool , and if the daylight does not last , we have a moon tonight , and thanks to fortune , neither you nor I are afraid of any thing . '' 
`` Oh , afraid -- no , I trust not , '' said Ellen , assuming a courage she did not feel , for her dejected mind had coloured with a melancholy hue the face of nature ; and the hoarse sounds of the brawling brook on her right , and the deep unbroken wood on the left , affected her imagination with an undefined impression of some possible evil . 
`` Ellen , '' she said , `` this is the most tedious lonesome way ever I travelled , it will never do to creep on this fashion , our horse , poor fellow , is coming to a dead stand -- let us walk up the rest of the hill , you always go like a bird , and a walk will limber my old joints , and serve to warm me this chilly night . '' 
Ellen acquiesced -- and as they walked on together , Deborah said , she `` had been thinking of all she had heard Squire Redwood say of the dangers of the old countries , and she was thinking it would be a pretty risky business for two defenceless women to be travelling alone at night in any land but our own . '' 
`` Yes , indeed , '' replied Ellen ; `` but here , thank heaven , there can be no danger ; '' and as she spoke she drew nearer to Deborah , for she fancied she heard a rustling in the woods on her left . 
said Deborah , and the dog thus harshly repulsed , turned as if to appeal to Ellen , crouched at her feet , ran from her , and then returned yelping -- raised himself quite erect , fawned again on Ellen , wagged his tail , and expressed over and over again his mute and painful entreaties . 
`` Certainly not -- but , '' -- `` But what , Ellen ? 
As she spoke she patted and caressed the dog : `` there may be , I think there must be some person in distress in these woods -- some one hunting may have been wounded , such accidents are common . '' 
The dog seemed to understand her words or her caresses -- he sprang again towards the wood , again returned , repeated all his modes of entreaty , pressing his suit with redoubled vigour , and Ellen replied to him by turning to Deborah , and saying with determination , `` I mustfollow him . '' 
But Ellen still hesitated , and Deborah added , `` we can not be far from a house , and we will alarm some men and send them here , which will be much the properest way . '' 
Ellen from her childhood , and ever since the memorable night when a dog had aided in her preservation from the fire , had felt a strong attachment to the whole race , had studied their instincts and history ; and while she stood looking at the petitioning animal , a thousand stories of similar significant actions glanced through her mind , and confirmed her resolution . 
`` I mustfollow him , Deborah , '' she repeated , `` wait for me here a few moments , I will not go beyond call ; '' and she turned quickly away to avoid Debby 's remonstrance . 
`` Stop , Ellen -- stop girl -- do you think I will let you go alone after this jack-o ' - lantern ? 
Ellen waited while Deborah secured the horse , and they then plunged into the wood after the dog , who trotted along the narrow foot path , turning round often as if to assure himself they still followed him . 
`` And that is as it should be , '' replied Ellen , in an encouraging tone ; `` two errant damsels as we are , in quest of adventures -- danger there is not , can not be here , and we will not go much farther . '' 
`` Certainly , '' replied Ellen , smiling , `` only go a little way farther , the moon is rising , there is a cleared place before us , and if we see nothing there , I will consent to return . '' 
Ellen 's benevolent purpose had conquered her womanish timidity : her tender and youthful spirit was susceptible to romantic influences that her companion could neither feel nor comprehend , and she pressed eagerly on , even in advance of Deborah , till on issuing from the wood , the dog bounded before her , and with one desperate howl threw himself beside a lifeless body . 
exclaimed Ellen , involuntarily shrinking back and seizing Deborah 's arm , and pointing to the figure , which by the dusky light she could only discern to be that of a man , whether dead or living she knew not . 
Deborah , without speaking , without faltering or hesitating in the least , walked rapidly forward to the body , and stooping down , eagerly gazed on it for a moment , and then raising both her hands in token of astonishment to Ellen , who was timidly approaching , she exclaimed , `` a dead Indian , -- as sure as I am a living woman , a dead Indian . '' 
asked Ellen , compassionately bending over him . 
Ellen sate down on a prostrate trunk of a tree beside which the body lay , while Deborah examined it for the purpose of ascertaining the cause of the poor wretch 's death . 
Fragments of an earthen jug were lying about the body , and Deborah pointing to them said , `` he has died Indian-fashion , Ellen , his dog and his jug by him ; but after all , for aught we know , he may have died of old age , for he looks as old as Methusalem . '' 
`` Poor creature , '' said Ellen ; `` and to die at last without a being to care for him . '' 
`` Oh , as to that , that is nothing , '' said Debby , `` and if it were , just look at that dog '' -- the dog was licking his master 's face and breast -- `` there 's many a one , Ellen , that dies on a feather bed , and them too that have houses and lands , without so true a friend and mourner as that poor brute . 
But come , Ellen , we can do no good here sermonizing the matter , we had best make our way back , and give notice of the man 's death , that somebody may come and put him under ground , which is fitting should be done , seeing he is a human being , though an old Indian . '' 
Do you , Ellen , open the door of the hut , and I will manage to drag the old carcass in . '' 
Deborah made this division of labour to save Ellen the painful necessity of touching the dead body , and Ellen hastened to execute her appointed task . 
The door was fastened with a rope , and she found so much difficulty in extricating the knots , that Deborah came up with the body before she had effected it . 
`` Pooh , child , you are vapoury -- it is nothing but a kitten , '' replied Deborah : and laying down the body , she drew from her pocket a knife , with which she cut the cord that had fallen from Ellen 's trembling hands -- the door flew open , and a loud shriek from within startled even Deborah . 
`` We are friends -- look at us , come to the light , '' said Ellen . 
At the sound of Ellen 's kind and gentle voice the spirit of fear departed from the half frantic girl : she rose , and looked with trembling hope at her deliverers : they all advanced to the door , the light fell on their faces , and an instant recognition followed . 
`` Ellen ! '' 
She threw her arms around Ellen 's neck , and nearly fainted on her bosom . 
Her friends drew her to a little distance from the hut , and far enough to avoid her observation of the Indian : there Deborah left her to the soothing efforts of Ellen , while she returned to finish the arrangements for Sooduck 's body . 
` An evil creature he was , no doubt , ' thought Deborah , -LRB- for the discovery of Emily had thrown a strong light on Sooduck 's character , -RRB- ` an evil creature , but it is all passed to his own account now , poor wretch ! ' 
She had not once mentioned the elder sister 's name in her brief relation of her flight , but Ellen , ever considerate of others , proposed as they reached the chaise , that they should return to the village , and relieve Susan at once from her painful apprehensions . 
Deborah cut the deliberation short by saying , ` No , no , Ellen , you have had your way once , and a good way it proved , and I shall think to my dying day that the Lord led you up through them woods -- but now I must have mine . 
There is no knowing , '' she whispered to Ellen , `` what might happen if we went back ; ` a bird in the hand , ' you know -- Come , jump in , Ellen -- jump in , Emily , my little god-send , and we 'll on as fast as possible . '' 
Ellen acquiesced , secretly resolving with the morning dawn to despatch a messenger with the good news to Susan : a resolution she exactly performed . 
The messenger despatched by Ellen arrived about the same time ; and Susan , thus relieved from her anxiety , and rejoicing in the innocence and safety of Emily , was able to assist at the council that was called to deliberate on the proper measures to be taken in regard to the culprit . 
Our travellers were fortunate in the time of their arrival : large parties had left the place the preceding day , and they were able to obtain two apartments in Mr. Hull 's well-known house ; one was assigned to Ellen , and the other Emily shared with her relation and true friend Deborah . 
Ellen , wearied as she was , did not retire to bed until she had written a note to the ` elder sister , ' containing all the particulars of Emily 's distressful experiences and providential rescue ; nor till she had obtained a promise from her landlord that he would despatch it with the first ray of light . 
Even after Ellen had performed this duty , it was long ere she could compose her mind to sleep . 
Deborah 's weariness prevailed over the force of long habit , and neither she nor her protegees awoke till a late hour in the morning , when , in compliance with Ellen 's persuasions , she ordered breakfast in her room : after partaking it with her usual appetite , she left her less enterprising companions , and sallied forth to reconnoitre the premises , and to try the effect of bathing on her rheumatism . 
Neither Ellen nor Emily felt any disposition in the present state of their minds to remain at Lebanon . 
Emily 's affections , released from the captivity of an imaginary duty , had bounded forward to their natural destination ; and Ellen was impatient to accelerate her return to Mrs. Harrison , to whom alone she could unburthen her heart , but they both knew that Deborah had resolved to remain at the springs for some days , and that her resolution once formed , was quite as immutable as the laws of the Medes and Persians . 
Ellen had not a nature to resist the persuasion of such a motive : the gentle Emily never resisted any thing , and they both prepared to appear with the best grace they could before the gay and the fashionable under the conduct of Miss Deborah . 
But Ellen encouraged her with the assurance that as they were all strangers , there was no clue to the discovery that she was the little runaway shaker , and having made her doff her shaker dress , and put on a simple mourning frock which she had provided for her , she re-modelled her hair -- formed some becoming curls on her temples -- and imparted such a wordly tastefulness to her appearance , that the simple girl confessed herself so completely metamorphosed , that she hardly recognised her own image . 
As neatness and simplicity were the presiding graces at Ellen 's toilette , its duties were very expeditiously despatched . 
Happily for her , since she did not possess the gifts of fortune , the loveliness of her face and figure made her superior to her favours or arts , at least so thought Deborah , as well as more competent judges ; for when she re-entered after her perambulations , she said -LRB- the only speech of hers on record that betrays any femality , -RRB- she did not believe the United States could produce two girls `` prettier to look at . '' 
Ellen felt some consternation when she added , that `` though she was not much of a dresser , she liked to rig out suitably to her voyage ; and as she had observed by the ladies she had met , that Lebanon was a dressy place , her young folks should not be ashamed of her . '' 
She then proceeded to unpack her trunk , and drew from its stores , a ` lutestring changeable , ' a manufacture of the olden time , in which the colours were skilfully combined , to produce a constant alternation from one hue to another ; the fancy of Deborah 's youth had been orange and purple , and as it was her pride and boast that she never altered her apparel in subservience to the whims of fashion , the ` changeable ' that had remained through all chances and changes unchanged , and always `` like a robe canonical , ne'er seen , but wondered at , '' was once more dragged forth to the light of day , and its antique and unbending dignity exposed to the levity of modern gossamer belles . 
Ellen watched Deborah with dismay , while she drew on the closely fitted sleeve , and laced the formal waist , and adroitly placed her gold beads over her kerchief that their light might not be hid . 
After her first and brief sacrifice to the graces , turning to Ellen , she said , with a complacency that her young friend could not but pity , `` now I think I am fit company for any body -- what do you say , Ellen ? '' 
`` Fit company for any body you always are , Miss Deborah , '' replied Ellen , `` without any outward adorning ; but I think your dress admits of one improvement ; '' and while she made an effort to restrain the smile that in spite of her hovered on her lips , she persuaded Deborah that a lace shawl , which she dexterously threw over her shoulders , improved her appearance . 
The rustling of Deborah 's silk attracted some observation , but it was not till she moved to the head of the table , and took possession of a seat that had been reserved for a gentleman who usually occupied it , while Ellen and Emily slid into vacant chairs on each side of her , that every eye was fixed upon the novel group . 
Deborah 's figure , in her usual apparel , was rather grotesque , but not sufficiently so to provoke or excuse laughter -- she would have looked between Ellen and Emily like the gnarled oak , somewhat scathed by time and accident , but still respectable in its hardy age , whose firm protection the tender vines had sought , and bloomed around it in all the freshness of youth and beauty . 
Deborah 's sagacity was at fault for a moment , but the truth suddenly flashed across her mind , and involuntarily rising and turning to Ellen , `` am I their music ? '' 
she exclaimed ; when seeing that Ellen too -- for the truth must be told -- had lost all command of her risibles , and had joined the laughers , her astonishment expressed , `` and thou , too ? 
this is the unkindest cut of all ; '' and she would have probably said something equivalent to it , but the attention of the company was diverted by a bustle at the door ; and Mr. Redwood entered , leading in Mrs. Westall , and followed by Miss Redwood attended by Charles Westall . 
-- my old friend -- God bless you , I am glad to see you and Miss Bruce -- my dear Ellen , '' he said , advancing with the greatest cordiality , and shaking Deborah 's hand heartily , and kissing Ellen 's , `` this is delightful , to meet you again -- and so unexpectedly ! '' 
I have not philosophy enough to resist its allurements , so I turned my face homeward , and have been guided hither , '' he concluded , looking at Ellen , `` by my good genius . '' 
Ellen , disconcerted by the unexpected appearance of the party , could not command words to reply to Mr. Redwood , or to return Mrs. Westall 's polite recognition . 
`` We are keeping our friends standing , '' he said ; `` let us pass on , Mrs. Westall ; my daughter I believe is at the lower end of the room : '' then lowering his voice to Ellen , he added , `` we shall see you immediately after dinner . '' 
Deborah looked after Mr. Redwood as he walked away , and shook her head : `` he is dreadfully changed , Ellen , since we left him -- poor man , he is not long for this world . '' 
Ellen had noticed that his face , as the glow of surprise faded from it , reverted to a sickly , ghastly paleness : but at this moment a subject of stronger interest occupied her mind . 
She ventured a timid glance towards that part of the room to which Miss Redwood had turned on seeing her : there appeared to be some delay about the arrangement of the seats for the new comers . 
Ellen fancied she saw , for the feelings that made her heart at that moment throb almost audibly have a wonderful effect on the vision -- she fancied she saw a mingled expression of impatience and joy on Westall 's countenance , and a moment after she heard him coming towards her with rapid steps . 
`` I am glad , Emily , '' she said , `` to see you have an appetite ; but Ellen child , what ails you ? 
Take a piece of the chicken , Ellen -- it is a nice chicken for the time o ' year -- by the way , I must find out how this young Mr. Hull feeds his chickens -- try a piece , Ellen -- '' Ellen declined it . 
Come , Ellen , do n't split peas any longer , but take a little something -- do . '' 
Ellen continued , however , obstinately to refuse Deborah 's solicitations ; and her attention being soon engrossed by the pies and puddings which she appeared to deem worthy successors of the meats , Ellen was relieved from her persecutions , and permitted for a short interval to chew the food of sweet and bitter fancies -- a kind of food that had quite spoiled her appetite for any grosser elements . 
The unforeseen meeting with the Redwood party , had suggested to Ellen 's mind hopes and fears -- resolutions and irresolutions . 
It must be confessed that there was something in the expression of Charles Westall 's face , and in the tones of his voice , that conveyed to her heart an assurance of consolation for any evils that might await her . 
Who could have imagined that Ellen had deduced from her brief interview with her lover the absolute certainty that she had nothing to fear from the arts of Miss Redwood ! 
Who could have imagined that it strengthened her resolution to await the reversion of Mrs. Westall 's kindness , and the developement of her own history ! 
Certain that his attachment to her had not been shaken by Caroline 's artifices , nor his mother 's distrust , she was willing to leave all the rest to time and chance ; or rather -- for we are doing injustice to the religious habits of her mind -- to the kind Providence that had thus far watched over her . 
Ellen dreaded coming in collision again with Miss Redwood : she trembled at the recollection of the unaccountable , mysterious hatred which Caroline had expressed at their last interview ; but after a little reflection she arrived at the tranquillizing conclusion that the eclat that would attend Miss Redwood on the scene where they were now to play their parts , would render her quite indifferent to so insignificant a personage as herself ; and in the shelter of her humility , she hoped to pass without observation or envy . 
Ellen learned from the remarks of the persons sitting around her , that Miss Redwood 's fame had preceded her arrival . 
Deborah repeatedly ejaculated in an under voice , as the narrator proceeded , when Ellen , frightened lest she should take up her testimony , whispered a caution which she had the prudence to heed . 
Ellen , perceiving that it would be utterly impossible for Deborah to suppress her indignation much longer , proposed withdrawing from the table , and Deborah assented , loth to retreat without giving battle . 
asked Westall , who had been long watching for an opportunity to follow Ellen . 
She had been blinded by her self-love , and her next strongest passion -- her ambition for her son -- Miss Redwood 's sudden and exclusive devotion to Fitzgerald had done more towards enlightening her mind on the subject of the young lady 's merits , than all their previous intercourse , and she left her with a feeling that prepared her to see Ellen in the most favorable light . 
After Ellen 's departure from Eton , Mr. Redwood , no longer having any strong inclination to protract his stay there , made arrangements to recommence his journey immediately . 
After Ellen left Eton , and during the journey , Caroline redoubled her assiduities to recover her lost influence over Westall . 
Afterwards the matter assumed a graver cast -- her vanity -- the pride of beauty , wealth , and station , became interested in the contest with Ellen -- and subsequently still stronger motives stimulated her rivalry , and made success important . 
To an indifferent observer of the effect of Miss Redwood 's efforts , it would have been plain that ` the lightnings played on the impassive ice , ' but she did not so interpret Westall 's frequent abstractions and studied politeness ; for vanity dulls the keenest perceptions , and is itself at least as blind as love . 
When the party arrived at Lebanon , Mr. Redwood 's first impulse at the unexpected sight of Ellen was sincere pleasure ; Caroline 's alarm , Mrs. Westall 's regret , and her son 's unqualified delight . 
Ellen persisted in secluding herself almost wholly in her own apartment : she resisted the solicitations of Mr. Redwood , who could not voluntarily forego the pleasure of her society , the only pleasure of which he now seemed susceptible ; she studiously avoided meeting Westall , except in the public rooms , and she had always some pretext to decline the walks he proposed , and the rides he arranged to include her . 
Caroline , who seemed only to notice her by a freezing bow as they sometimes met in their passage to and from the eating room , really watched every movement , and after balancing all the motives that she believed could operate on Ellen 's mind , she came to the conclusion , that her rival had abandoned the field . 
This somewhat abated her own ardour -- the devotion of a host of admirers , who were crowding around her for recognition or introduction , and the highly seasoned flatteries of Captain Fitzgerald , gave her a distaste to the tame civilities of Westall , and not three days had elapsed before she was vacillating between the gratification of her pride and resentment , and the pleasure of granting the suit which Fitzgerald was already pressing upon her . 
Miss Campbell sprang towards Ellen , exclaiming , while her fine face witnessed her sincerity , `` my dear Miss Bruce , I am delighted to find you are not gone from Lebanon . 
But how comes it , '' she added , hardly allowing Ellen time to return the kind greetings of the other members of her party , `` how comes it that you have not mentioned our meeting , and the fortunate incident that broke the ice of ceremony , and made us friends at once ? 
`` But here , '' she continued , seeming at least not to notice the deep blush that suffused Ellen 's cheeks , `` here comes the eighth wonder of the world -- the beautiful Miss Redwood -- and we common mortals must fall back to gaze on her . '' 
`` No , replied Ellen , '' quite unmoved by a stroke that was meant to mortify her , `` I have no aunt among the shakers , neither , if I understand their order , is there any ` elect lady . '' ' 
Poor Emily blushed and trembled as every eye turned on her , and edging herself behind Ellen , she whispered in all simplicity , `` do tell her I ca n't go . '' 
At this moment Westall almost wished he had a heart to give to the daughter of Mr. Redwood , but he did not hesitate as to the course he should pursue : after saying he was certain Mr. Redwood had misunderstood his daughter 's sentiments in relation to him , he made a manly avowal of his attachment to Ellen , and related , with such reserves as a lover would be apt to make , the events and conversation of the morning of her departure from Eton . 
I have sought relief here , '' he continued , drawing a Bible from beneath his pillow , `` this was the gift of your sweet Ellen . 
I can not boast my principles -- but Ellen suits my tastes ; and feeling her loveliness as I have felt it , I can not now but wonder that I ever should have indulged the extravagant expectation that you would fix your affections elsewhere . 
Charles , your sweet friend resembles the only person I ever truly loved : resembles her in her face and figure , and still more in the gentleness and purity of her character . 
`` You must persuade Ellen to give up her scruples in regard to her mother 's restrictions ; there can be but one rational opinion about them . 
She was doubtless some sentimental deluded young creature , whose tenderness for her offspring induced her to devise this innocent little artifice to keep her in ignorance of her parentage . '' 
Westall had too entire a sympathy with Ellen to regard the matter in this light , but he declared with sincerity , that though on her account he trusted that her long cherished hopes might not be disappointed , as far as related to his own feelings , the result would be a matter of perfect indifference . 
Miss Campbellvalued herself on never feeling or doing any thing by halves -- she had taken a decided liking to Ellen -- with her cordial admiration there mingled a little of the pride of a discoverer : a complacent sense of the merit of having first felt Miss Bruce 's attractions , and asserted her claims . 
She attached herself almost exclusively to her , and Westall was delighted to observe after dinner that Ellen , instead of retiring immediately to her own room as usual , accompanied Miss Campbell and her party to the drawing-room . 
Westall went as unwillingly as ever schoolboy crept to school to deliver a message which must hasten Ellen 's departure . 
Captain Fitzgerald arranged the piano -- Miss Redwood took her seat at it , and Mrs. Westall left her and joined Ellen , who was sitting on the other side of the room in an animated conversation with Grace Campbell . 
He perceived that she was completely alienated from Miss Redwood , and that the re-action of her feelings was all in Ellen 's favour , and with a very pardonable filial enthusiasm , he mentally congratulated himself on always having believed that his mother 's good sense and good feeling would finally rectify her opinions . 
Probably Ellen 's thoughts had received a direction from Mrs. Westall 's observation ; but suddenly recalling them to the point whence they had started , she asked Miss Campbell `` if she thought Fitzgerald was really in love with Caroline Redwood ? '' 
By a natural train of thought Mr. Howard , whom Ellen had seen devoted to Miss Campbell when they met at the village-inn , occurred to her mind , and she asked Grace , ` why he was not still of her party ? ' 
`` For mercy 's sake , Miss Campbell , '' said Ellen , `` do not let Emily hear you call her so . 
Westall met Deborah at the door , and drew her aside to communicate Miss Redwood 's message . 
Ellen advanced towards the bashful girl , and drawing Emily 's arm within her own , she led her to a seat where she was sheltered from observation . 
Ellen 's turned involuntarily towards Charles Westall , and one brief glance contradicted all her wellmaintained reserve and scrupulous silence . 
Mrs. Westall followed Ellen to the stairs , and detaining her there till her companions had passed up , she said , `` if my feelings or wishes have ever done you injustice , forgive me , Ellen -- believe me , there is now but one other so dear -- so interesting to me as you are . '' 
Ellen faltered out , `` I am very grateful , '' and turned hastily away , leaving Mrs. Westall quite satisfied with the significance which her glowing cheek and moistened eye gave to her scanty expression . 
Ellen had scarcely reached her own apartment , when Miss Campbell came running to her quite out of breath : `` suspend your packing operations , my dear Ellen , '' she said , `` and sit down and listen to me for a moment , I can not be ceremonious with you -- I have the greatest favour to ask of you -- and you can not , must not deny me . 
Ellen 's decision vibrated between a strong inclination to remain and a natural reluctance -LRB- which even Miss Campbell 's extreme cordiality could not remove , -RRB- to receive such favours from persons nearly strangers to her . 
While she deliberated , and Grace Campbell urged her request , they were interrupted by a servant who brought Ellen a note . 
`` And the note too , '' said Ellen , refolding it ; `` and now if Miss Deborah will relinquish her right to me , I will throw away all squeamishness , and gratefully accept your invitation . '' 
The note was from Mr. Redwood , and contained an earnest entreaty that Ellen would defer her departure for a few days . 
The note Ellen rightly believed was the fruit of Westall 's intervention , but he could not have dictated the purport of it , and her delicacy was satisfied , now that she had a motive to remain , independent of her lover . 
`` Not but what I am loth to part with you , Ellen , '' she said , `` for the Lord knows , '' and she brushed a tear from the corner of her eye , `` nobody ever wanted to leave you yet ; but then there is reason in all things -- you have taken a long journey , all for those that 's neither kith nor kin to you , and now that you are happy among your mates , it is but fair you should have a play-spell : besides , it would be rather tough for our poor old horse to draw us all over the hills , and he should be considered too -- to be sure I calculated to walk up the hills , but then I have come to that time of life , when I had rather ride than walk -- so all is for the best . '' 
I am delighted -- Ellen looks resigned -- and your little Emily there most provokingly happy . '' 
There 's Ellen Bruce , she has had troubles that would fret some people to death , and yet I have seldom seen her with a cloudy face . '' 
Now , Ellen , I do n't mean to praise you '' -- and she looked at Ellen , while an expression of affection spread over her rough featured face . 
`` The truth is , Ellen has been so busy about making other people happy , that she has no time to think of herself ; instead of grieving about her own troubles , she has tried to lessen other people 's ; instead of talking about her own feelings and thinking about them , you would not know she had any , if you did not see she always knew just how other people felt . '' 
`` Stop , stop , Deborah , my good friend , '' said Ellen , `` you must not turn flatterer in your old age . '' 
`` You mean to say , Deborah , '' said Ellen , `` that contentment is a modest , prudent spirit ; and that for the most part she avoids the high places of the earth , where the sun burns and the tempests beat , and leads her favourites along quiet vales and to sequestered fountains . '' 
`` Just whatI would have said , Ellen , though it may not be just asI should have said it , '' replied Deborah , smiling . 
Come , Miss Campbell and Ellen , we will go on to the piazza , and leave Emily to the company of her own thoughts . '' 
Deborah proposed joining them ; but Ellen begged they might remain where they were . 
`` I can not , '' she said , `` voluntarily inflict my presence on Miss Redwood . 
She is not worth heeding , Ellen : it is the folly of her haughtiness , or perhaps , '' -- and she looked at Ellen with an arch smile -- `` there has been some rivalry in the case ; she may have detected too soon the ` fair speechless messages that pass between certain eyes and yours . 
Do not colour , dear Ellen ; Miss Debby says truly , ` it is a creditable feeling . '' ' 
`` Pshaw , Ellen ! '' 
said Deborah ; `` the girl is whimsical , and her whims are no more worth your minding than the freaks of a fretful child . 
Ellen seemed still reluctant , when Charles Westall joined the ladies with a request , as he said , from Mr. Redwood , that they would consider his inability to come to them , and favour him with their company . 
The ladies acquiesced , and Miss Campbell took Deborah 's arm , on the pretext that she could not accommodate her quick step to Ellen 's lagging pace . 
This benevolent manœuvre gave Westall an opportunity to satisfy his impatient curiosity as to Ellen 's decision in regard to her departure , and when they reached Mr. Redwood , the speaking animation of his countenance evinced how much he was delighted with the result of his enquiry . 
A faint gleam of pleasure lit up Mr. Redwood 's pale and desponding face , as Ellen approached him ; he took her hand . 
Caroline turned suddenly round , and darted a look of eager inquiry at Ellen . 
`` Your favourite book , my dear Ellen , '' continued Mr. Redwood , `` asserts , I believe , that it is more blessed to give than to receive ; if so , I shall be the cause of great happiness to you , though not in a mode most flattering to my own pride . '' 
`` Good heavens , '' said Miss Campbell mentally , `` does the foolish girl really fancy that her poor father , who is so fast going where there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage , is projecting a lovematch with Ellen , or that she will marry a half disembodied spirit ! '' 
And so it proved ; for though Mr. Redwood frankly avowed to Ellen the disappointment of his own hopes , and though he urged her with all the energy of strong feeling and the most affectionate interest , to waive her scruples -- though he begged on his own account , that before he died he might have the happiness of seeing the two persons in whom he felt the strongest interest united : it was not till Westall , availing himself of an opportunity that occurred in the evening to plead his own cause with the irresistible zeal of true and well-requited love , that Ellen gave her promise -- that she would write to Mrs. Harrison -- lay the case before her , and abide by her decision . 
Miss Campbelland Ellen rose by appointment on the following morning , at the dawn of day , that they might witness the departure of Deborah and Emily . 
As they all stood on the piazza , awaiting the arrangement of the baggage in the chaise , Deborah drew Ellen aside . 
I shall keep the present a secret till Emily 's wedding-day , which I 'm sure is not far off ; and Ellen , '' she added , after a moment 's pause , `` I 'm thinking that another wedding-day is coming among our friends . 
`` But , Deborah , '' interrupted Ellen , `` I am not '' -- `` Engaged -- I know that '' -- `` Ma'am , your chaise is ready , '' said the servant . 
I know how it stands , Ellen , pretty nearly ; for last night , when I got this pacquet from Redwood , my heart was so full I thought I could not sleep till I had told you . 
I thought it fair to tell you ; and besides , I wanted to charge you not to be notional ; for a girl of your sense , Ellen , you are apt to be a little notional , which is not your fault , but comes of your living with Mrs. Harrison , and reading too many verses , which are apt to make girls dreamy . '' 
One word more , Ellen -- '' and here Deborah paused , for the first time in her life at a loss how to express herself . 
She drummed with the butt end of her whip on the railing , made figures with the lash on the floor , knit her brow , bit her lips , but did not speak till spurred by a second call from Emily ; and then the tears gushed from the good creature 's eyes as she said , `` Ellen , you are rich in nothing but the grace of God ; the best riches I know : but then there 's neither quails nor manna now-a-days , and one must look a little to the needful . 
I have enough for myself besides , Ellen , laid up for a wet day , so that is all to be yours . 
Good bye , Ellen , the Lord bless you , child , and all that care for you , '' -- and she strided across the piazza without giving Ellen time to open her lips ; shook Miss Campbell 's hand heartily as she passed , took her seat in the chaise , and the moment Emily had taken a hurried leave of Ellen , she drove off , followed by the blessings and prayers of her grateful young friend . 
After a few moments , Miss Campbell turned suddenly round , and observing that the tears were streaming from Ellen 's eyes , `` who would think , '' she said , `` that Miss Deborah would call forth such a sentimental tribute ; and yet I could find it in my heart to cry heartily too , for sure I am , I never shall look upon her like again . '' 
`` She deserves every tribute , '' replied Ellen , `` that can be paid to genuine worth . 
`` Yes , I believe you ; and now , dear Ellen , though more than half an angel yourself , I am going to expose a heart to you that has no such high qualifications ; so get your hat and shawl , and we will stroll into some of these woods , far out of the sight and hearing of the ` world 's people . ' 
They soon reached a place of perfect seclusion , and seating themselves on a rock , they remained for some time silent ; Ellen awaiting Miss Campbell 's communication , and she with some embarrassment picking the leaves from a branch she had plucked in her way , and strewing them about her : at last , throwing away leaves , branch , and all , she said , `` I hardly know , Ellen , whether to be most ashamed or proud of myself , on account of the confidence I am about to repose in you . 
It seems so like the girlish prating of a Miss in her teens ; after our brief acquaintance to unveil to you the state of my heart , when even I myself have not yet dared to take one calm survey of it . 
But there is a charm about you , Ellen -- an ` open sessime ' that unlocks all hearts -- you have touched the master-spring of mine , and it must be shown to you as it is , with all its light and all its darkness : believe me , you will find it `` o'er good for banning , and o'er bad for blessing . '' 
`` Will you pay my frankness in kind , Ellen ? 
He is a conceited bigot in every thing , from his religion down to his particular mode of tying on his neckcloth ; he is ignorant of every thing but how to get and how to keep money : in short , dear Ellen , for his character is not worth the drawing , the breath of intellectual and moral life has never been breathed into him . '' 
inquired Ellen . 
`` You must have convinced him of his mistake long before this , '' said Ellen ; `` how have you retained his favour ? '' 
Figure to yourself , my dear Ellen , such a child , with all the uproar and misrule that follows in her train , introduced into the house of a sober citizen , a priggish old bachelor , with as much Pharisaical exactness in the arrangement of his household and furniture as if his salvation depended on preserving the mutual relation of chairs and tables . 
I could sketch my own character , my dear Ellen , but I am afraid I should not much like to look at the picture . 
I had not beauty enough to be that most insipid of all creatures , a mere belle -- nor literature enough to fall into that unhappy class , the blue stockings , the terror of our city beaux , the dread of our fashionables -- nor sufficiently brilliant expectations to throw me into the vulgar class of the fortunes ; but I had enough of each to attract the votaries of every class -- I have been surrounded by admirers , and yet I have walked among them with an unscathed heart till within these few weeks ; and now , my dear Ellen , be kind enough to look the other way , for though I have not all your sentimental reserve , I have a little maidenly pride of my own , which I would rather not discourage . 
`` That may be , '' said Ellen . 
Ellen 's animated countenance evinced that she admired the magnanimity that spurned a self-delusion , and Miss Campbell proceeded -- `` My uncle was persuaded : he announced his resolution to me , which , as you may imagine , I received with very provoking nonchalance ; and he wrote to Fenton , and promised him , that provided he would come immediately to this country , and fix his residence here , he should inherit the half of his estate . 
So far all is well -- but now , dear Ellen , come the cross purposes . 
exclaimed Ellen , smiling . 
`` My sweet little methodistic Ellen , I am very much afraid it would ; depend upon it , one can not live altogether in the world and not be of the world : but let me go on with my story , and you will find that I am in danger of a romantic folly that would be more appropriate to your innocence and sweet simplicity . 
asked Ellen , archly . 
`` Both , Ellen , both -- a noble class , and a most worthy representative of that class . 
`` That , '' said Ellen , `` can be of little consequence , since you do not incur the penalty by any violation of duty . '' 
Would to heaven , Ellen , I were as unsophisticated as you are ; or that I had never been ` clasped with favour in fortune 's tender arms . '' ' 
An unwonted seriousness overspread Miss Campbell 's face as she added , `` I certainly am not selfish . 
`` By rising to an elevation they never can reach , Miss Campbell , '' said Ellen , affectionately taking her hand . 
Ellen with the impulsive sympathy of generous feeling , pressed the arm into which hers was locked ; and Armstead said , `` spoken worthy of yourself , my dear Grace ; but consider well and warily before you take a step which can not be retracted . 
`` I have considered , William -- have I not , Ellen ? '' 
Ellen smiled without replying , for she feared that her friend 's hasty resolution had been somewhat quickened by resentment against her uncle : luckily the warmth of Grace Campbell 's feelings at the moment prevented her noticing the half incredulous expression of Ellen 's face . 
`` And you , my dear Miss Campbell , '' said Ellen , with enthusiasm , `` will have the secret consciousness of having acted right and nobly . '' 
`` Ah , thank you , Ellen , for your prompting . 
`` Come , Miss Bruce , '' said Armstead to Ellen , `` hasten your friend 's pace , she will work herself into such a holy indignation against poor Fenton before we reach home , that she will not be able to receive him with common civility . 
In vain Armstead continued his efforts as they approached the house to dispel his cousin 's gravity : he reasoned , he rallied , but all in vain -- the fear he had insinuated into her mind in relation to Howard had taken complete possession of her : she blamed herself for the frankness of her communications ; and , for a few moments at least , she would have rejoiced to have been even as destitute as Ellen of extrinsic attractions . 
Conscious that the agitation of her mind unfitted her for meeting her cousin with the indifference and calm civility which her pride prompted her to assume towards him , she approached the door of the parlour , where Armstead told her that his mother with Fenton was awaiting her , with a slow and most reluctant step . 
`` Come in with me , Ellen , '' she said , as her friend was turning away , `` I always do better in company than alone ; '' but as she reached the threshold of the door , she hesitated , and turning to Armstead said , `` Do you , William , go in and invent some apology for me , I will meet Fenton at breakfast -- it will save us both useless embarrassment . '' 
Grace forgot for once whether she was in company or alone -- forgot every thing but the surprising certainty that Howard and Fenton were the self-same person -- every trace of displeasure vanished from her face , unmixed delight shone in her brightened eye and glowing cheek , and without noticing the joyful expression of her aunt 's face , the ludicrous twist of William Armstead 's mouth , or the sympathy that moistened Ellen 's eye , she gave Fenton her hand , and in virtue of his being friend , lover , or cousin , one or all , permitted him to devour it with kisses . 
`` Still , Mr. Armstead , '' said Ellen , `` I think your mother 's question is a rational one -- certainly this artifice does seem a little juvenile and romantic in a man of five-and-twenty ; and a man too of Mr. Campbell 's gravity of manners . '' 
`` But we sentamentalists , '' rejoined Ellen , `` since you insist on placing me in that class , are not apt to expose our difficulties to the profane eyes of scoffers . '' 
And first , as entitled to our chief interest , is Ellen -- who , in spite of the beseeching looks of Westall and the raillery of Grace Campbell , persisted in secluding herself in her own room . 
`` What romantic whim have you taken into your head , Ellen ? '' 
This was the day on which Ellen expected a reply to her letter to Mrs. Harrison , and she could not conceal , and dared not explain the reluctance with which she consented to an arrangement that must retard the time of her receiving it . 
She tried to evade Miss Campbell 's scrutiny , by saying with a forced smile , `` such a frail creature as I am may well feel dread of a lecture on my duties ; but you may perhaps lessen it by telling me what those are that are to be the subject of your preaching . '' 
`` Kindness to your lover -- frankness to your friend , Ellen . 
`` Believe me , my dear friend , '' said Ellen , taking Grace 's hand affectionately , `` I have a reason for the suspension of my intercourse with Westall -- for my reserve to you , a day or two will , I trust in heaven , end this mystery ; and when I am absolved from the necessity of any farther reserve , you shall know all . '' 
`` God speed the happy hour , my sweet Ellen , and show me that you have reason , even in your madness . '' 
Mrs. Westall assented readily to the polite request , and while she went for her hat and shawl , Miss Campbell said , `` your good mother elect has taken you mightily into favour of late , Ellen . 
I overheard her yesterday zealously stating your claims to gentility to the Elmores of New-York -- a point , you know , of infinite moment in the judgment of the daughters of a ci-devant barmaid . '' 
`` Oh , what would mamma have said , '' exclaimed Ellen , `` if she had known that I was indebted to the generosity of Mrs. Harrison for all my lady-like qualities ? '' 
exclaimed Miss Redwood ; ` indeed I know nothing of Miss Bruce : I believe her parents are dead : ' -- and her immoveable colour , Ellen , for once did move , and she was so pale for a moment that I really thought the girl was going to faint . 
`` Yes , very strange ; but nothing from Miss Redwood can ever surprise me , '' said Ellen . 
Miss Campbell looked on Ellen for a moment earnestly , and then said , with a little hesitation , `` the old woman 's curiosity is natural enough , and I should like to gratify it . 
Do tell me , Ellen , your mother 's maiden name ? '' 
`` I can not tell you , Miss Campbell -- do not ask me , '' replied Ellen , with a trembling voice . 
`` Forgive me , my sweet friend , '' exclaimed Grace Campbell , recovering her usual frank manner , and throwing her arm around Ellen 's neck and kissing her pale cheek ; `` forgive my silly curiosity -- every shade of it has passed away . 
`` I hope , '' said Ellen -- `` I believe he is not as sick as you imagine ; he suffers from extreme depression of spirits . '' 
exclaimed Ellen -- `` God be praised ! '' 
Miss Campell caught the fine expression of Ellen 's upraised eye -- `` What a little enthusiast you are , Ellen . 
`` I should rejoice in any vocation that could administer consolation to him , '' replied Ellen . 
`` No doubt , my dear , '' said her lively friend ; `` but pray keep your holy zeal to yourself , for here comes Fenton , a sworn disciple of Gall and Spurzheim , and we shall have him exploring your head for the ` organ of veneration , ' and your heart for its correspondent qualities ; and then I am afraid I shall find to my cost that he is without the ` organ of adhesiveness ' -- that , I suppose , may stand for constancy in your bumpmetaphysics , Fenton ? '' 
`` I should be in a much more grateful humour if I had , '' replied Mrs. Westall , looking kindly on Ellen . 
Ellen would have comprehended Mrs. Westall 's meaning without the interpreting glance that beamed on her from Miss Campbell 's eye , and she sprang into the carriage after her friend , her heart quite lightened of one burden that had pressed sorely on it . 
Caroline then proceeded herself to arrange her dressing-case : after having stowed away compactly its usual apparatus , she inclosed the treasure rifled from Ellen in a sheet of paper , carefully sealed it , and then placed it in the dressing-case . 
She laid in her purse also , locked it , and gave the key to Lilly . 
The poets say , ` the course of true love never doth run smooth , ' and so thought Miss Redwood , when half way down the hill she and her companion were encountered by Ellen and Westall . 
-- Westall had , early in the day , obtained possession of the looked-for letter from Lansdown , and having awaited Ellen 's return , till patience had had her perfect work , and would work no longer , he had sallied forth in the expectation of meeting the returning party , as he did at no great distance . 
They had been delayed by an accident that had lamed one of their horses , a circumstance that afforded a pretext to Westall to propose to the young ladies to quit the carriage and walk up the hill ; and he , leaving Miss Campbell with her natural escort Fenton , proceeded with Ellen , and for a very good reason had preferred , as lovers are apt to do , without any reason at all , the most retired road . 
As soon as they were removed from observation , he produced Mrs. Harrison 's letter , and Ellen was attempting to read it by the feeble light , when they were met by Miss Redwood and Fitzgerald . 
Fitzgerald internally cursed the unlucky encounter , and Caroline drew her bonnet closer ; but any apprehensions they might feel seemed quite unnecessary , for Ellen did not raise her eyes from the letter , and Westall only noticed them by slightly touching his hat , being at the moment too much engrossed with his own affairs to have any suspicions excited in relation to theirs . 
Ellen and Westall were left slowly retracing their way to the Springs , and poring over Mrs. Harrison 's letter . 
Whatever might have been the excellent old lady 's epistolary talents , Westall certainly thought her letter a chef d'œuvre when he read the following passage : -- `` I have no hesitation , my beloved Ellen , in giving you a decision on the subject you have referred to me . 
`` I do not ask for riches or honours for you , my dear Ellen , but my earnest desire is , that you may have sprung from virtuous parents , whose memory you may cherish with an honest pride , and to a reunion with whom you may look forward with eager and well-founded hope : whatever may be the event , do not delay to inform me of it ; remember that I must weep or rejoice with you ; that the light which shines on you , will send its cheering ray to my old heart ; or if there must be clouds in your heaven , that they will overshadow me too -- for we have the same horizon . '' 
As they ascended the steps of the piazza , Westall said , `` let us improve the present opportunity , Ellen -- the east parlour is vacant , and for a short time at least we shall be in no danger of interruption there . 
Ellen assented -- left him , and re-appeared in a few moments with the box in her hand : her cheeks were alternately deeply flushed and deadly pale . 
Westall understood too well the source whence her feelings flowed to attempt to check them . 
Ellen tried to unlock the box , but she could not -- she shivered with emotion . 
`` Do you open it , '' she said , giving it to Westall , `` for I can not . '' 
Westall as he took the box from her , perceived that her hands were as cold as marble . 
`` Had you not better defer this , Ellen ? '' 
`` No , no , I am prepared for any thing now , '' she replied , sinking on her knees before the table on which Westall had placed the box . 
Westall turned the key , and disclosed to her eager eye the interior , containing nothing but a small miniature case . 
The bright glow of expectation faded from Ellen 's cheek , `` Oh my mother ! 
she exclaimed , in a voice in which bitter disappointment and tender expostulation mingled . 
Westall took her clasped hands between his -- both were silent for a few moments : he then said , `` My dear Ellen , do not distress yourself thus -- have not your fears vanished with your hopes ? 
and severe as your disappointment is , Ellen , will you not be consoled by the devotion of my life to you ? '' 
Ellen only replied by laying her head on her hands and weeping bitterly . 
Westall proceeded to urge every consolation which the stimulated tenderness of a lover could suggest , but Ellen was deaf to all that he said . 
It seemed as if she had been that moment torn from the bosom of her mother , and was left alone in the universe . 
`` Oh , it wasthen an artifice , '' she said : `` Caroline Redwood spoke the cruel truth . 
I could have borne any thing but this , '' she continued , with an impetuosity that startled Westall -- `` for this I was not prepared . '' 
Again and again she took up the box , examined it without and within , and dropping it , exclaimed , `` oh my mother , is this all ? '' 
There was something so sacred in Ellen 's grief -- something so touching in her brief expressions , and in the indescribable language of her beautiful countenance , that even her lover , whose heart vibrated to every pulsation of hers , was compelled to silence . 
It occurred to Westall at once that there might have been some foul play , and he was on the point of suggesting his conjecture to Ellen , when they were both startled by some one tapping at the door , and then impatiently opening it . 
`` I can not go now , '' said Westall , insensible for the moment to any suffering but Ellen 's . 
`` You mustgo , '' said Miss Campbell , with an imperative decision , which indicated that she had more reason for her urgency than her words expressed , and Westall whispering an entreaty to Ellen that he might be permitted to see her again in the course of the evening , left the ladies to witness a scene of more remediless grief than Ellen 's . 
Miss Campbell remained for a few moments an embarrassed spectator of Ellen 's emotion : it surprised and affected her the more , because there was in Ellen 's ordinary manner such an instinctive shrinking from the display , or the exposure of her feelings . 
Grace was not however of a temper to remain for any length of time a silent or inactive observer of a friend 's sufferings , and after a few moments she kindly passed her arm round Ellen and said , `` what rude storm has assailed you , my dear Ellen ? '' 
Ellen made no effort to reply , and after a little pause her friend added , `` though you will not let me feel with you , you must permit me to think for you , Ellen -- you are exposed to intrusion here . 
Ellen returned the pressure of her friend 's hand in token of her acquiescence , and taking up once more her box with a heart-bursting sigh , she retreated to her own apartment with Miss Campbell ; and there , after having recovered from the first shock of her disappointment , she rewarded the delicate kindness and affectionate interest of her friend by confiding to her the few particulars of her long-cherished hopes , and the final utter demolition of them . 
At the sight of Westall he sunk into a chair , exclaiming , `` it is all over , Charles -- she has gone -- she has left me to die here -- gone without one parting word -- misguided miserable girl ! '' 
The image of the only relict in Ellen 's box was still vivid in Westall 's mind , and it was not strange that he should have instinctively compared the dimensions of the miniature with the case in Ellen 's possession , and hardly conscious of the several links in the chain of his thoughts , he turned the miniature to examine the back of it . 
The upper part of the paper that had been pasted over it , was torn off , and on that remaining was traced in the same hand-writing that was on Ellen 's fragment , `` beloved husband to his faithful Mary . '' 
`` Be composed Sir , -- I beseech you , '' said Westall , in the calmest tone he could assume : then opening the letter he glanced his eye rapidly over it , refolded it and paused ; he could not speak : his first impulse was to fly to Ellen and tell her that Mr. Redwood was her father . 
Westall described as concisely as possible the condition in which he had found the box left by Ellen 's mother ; and he read aloud some passages of the letter which placed , beyond the possibility of doubt , the fact that Mr. Redwood 's wife left a child , and that that child was Ellen Bruce . 
`` Send for Ellen , '' he said , the effort to speak slowly and calmly too apparent in his voice : `` do you stay with me , Charles -- I must not be left alone : the light burns dimly here , '' he added , pressing his hand to his head . 
`` Do not send for her now , '' said Westall , `` give this night to tranquillity -- to happy anticipations . 
To-morrow you will be better prepared to see her . '' 
Westall took out his pencil to write a note to Ellen . 
Mr. Redwood stopped him , `` No , my dear Charles , '' he said , `` go yourself -- the poor child will need some preparation -- she will need your support . 
Westall went and returned with Ellen , in a space of time that seemed brief , even to Mr. Redwood . 
Ellen was as pale as marble ; but a celestial joy shone in her face -- she sprang towards her father : he rose , stretched out his arms to receive her , and folding her in them , they wept together . 
After a moment he started back , and gazed wildly on Ellen . 
Speak to me Ellen -- call me father -- forgive me in your mother 's name . '' 
Ellen 's resolution forsook her : alarmed , trembling , and weeping , she sunk on her knees ; her father shook his head , and would have stooped to raise her , but utterly exhausted by the conflict of his feelings , he leaned on Westall 's shoulder . 
A single look from Westall roused all Ellen 's energies ; she sprang to her father 's aid , and assisted Westall to lay him on the bed . 
`` He is insensible for the moment , '' whispered Westall , `` but he will soon recover his consciousness , and then , my dear Ellen , his life -- more than life , his reason will depend on your fortitude and calmness . '' 
Westall then gave into Ellen 's hands the miniature , the certificate , and the letter -- the last she kissed again and again -- poured over it a shower of tears , and not daring then to trust herself to look in it , she placed it in her bosom . 
She then took her station beside her father , and watched with inexpressible anxiety every variation of his changeful countenance . 
He laughed and wept alternately -- he called on Ellen -- on her mother -- on Westall ; but most frequently and with most impetuosity , he demanded Caroline . 
So much did his madness appear to be stimulated by this fancy , that after a short consultation Westall and Ellen determined that an effort should be made to induce Miss Redwood to return immediately , to try what effect her presence might produce on her father . 
Westall 's next care was to determine to whom he should apply to undertake so delicate an embassy , and while he was deliberating , Ellen said , `` go yourself , I beseech you , Mr. Westall . 
Ralph and I can do every thing here , and you , and you alone can persuade Miss Redwood to return -- to return , '' she added , with a faltering voice , `` before it is too late . '' 
my dear Ellen , '' replied Westall , glancing his eye at Mr. Redwood , who after a paroxysm of raving had sunk on his pillow , pale and exhausted , `` it is I fear already too late . '' 
`` Oh , do not say so -- it may not be -- '' said Ellen , and she bent over her father with a look of great anxiety , then turning suddenly to Westall , `` we may at least , '' she said , `` save Caroline from the disgrace that must fall on her , if it is known that she has deserted her father in this extremity . '' 
`` Ask Grace Campbell then , to come to me -- but no , '' she added , looking towards the bed and observing that her father was sinking to sleep , `` perfect quiet will be best -- now go , and God speed you . '' 
Westall departed , admiring with enthusiasm -LRB- as lovers are wont to admire the virtues that belong to the objects of their tenderness -RRB- the self-command of Ellen , and the generosity with which she could forego , at this crisis of her life , the indulgence of her sensibilities , to consider how she might preserve the honor of one who had so relentlessly inflicted suffering on her . 
The moment Westall left her , Ellen sent the servant into an adjoining room that she might avoid the risk of breaking her father 's slumbers by the slightest noise . 
Hour after hour she sate on his bedside , gently chafing his icy hands , wiping the cold dew from his forehead , and noting every breath he struggled to inhale , and every convulsive motion of his distorted features . 
Ellen raised her hands and eyes in silent and devout thankfulness , and withdrawing from the bed , she took from her bosom her mother 's letter , and opened it with a mingled feeling of awe , of apprehension , and of tenderness . 
it was the record of the wrongs of her departed mother first to be learned in the presence of her dying father . 
Repeatedly she fixed her eyes on the letter , but they were so dimmed with her tears , that she could not distinguish one word from another . 
At last an intense interest in her mother 's fate subdued every other feeling , and she succeeded in reading the letter which will be found in the next chapter . 
Every word of this letter , which may appear very long and tedious to an indifferent reader , sunk deep into Ellen 's heart . 
It seemed to her as if the book of Providence was unsealed and open before her , and as the bright light fell on the path by which she had been led to the present period of her existence , ` Oh my mother ! ' 
she exclaimed , ` hast thou not been with me a guardian spirit to lead me by the way which was disclosed to thy prophetic eye ? '' 
Her emotions were deep and indescribable -- stronger than any other were gratitude to her mother , and admiration of the courage and single-heartedness with which she had renounced the world for her . 
`` I might , '' she thought , `` like Caroline , have been the slave of the world -- the victim of folly : I might have followed my poor father through the dark and dreary passages of unbelief , but for that good part which my sainted mother chose for me . '' 
A thousand reflections crowded on her mind : but gratitude for the past -- her own bright hopes of the future -- every other feeling was soon lost in an extreme solicitude for her father 's recovery . 
She knelt by his bed-side -- But there are feelings too sacred to be drawn from their silent sanctuary -- there are services too hallowed to be described . 
They are seen in secret , and rewarded , as Ellen 's were , openly . 
While she was thus bewailing her calamity , she heard a gentle tap at the door , and on opening it Ellen appeared . 
`` No , Miss Redwood , '' replied Ellen , advancing into the room with an air of dignity and gentleness , `` I have come here on my own errand -- Caroline , your '' -- here for the first time there was a slight tremulousness in her voice , and after a moment 's pause , she added , `` ourfather '' -- `` You have it then ? '' 
`` Yes , '' replied Ellen , `` I have it -- Providence has restored to me my right ; but you , Caroline have nothing to fear from me -- let the past be for ever forgotten . 
Caroline was touched with Ellen 's generosity , and deeply mortified , for the moment at least , at the wrong she had done her . 
`` I never meant , '' she said , as soon as she could command her voice sufficiently to put the words together , though in the most embarrassed and stammering manner , `` I never meant , Ellen , to keep those papers from you for ever . 
Lame and impotent as was Caroline 's attempt to justify herself , Ellen replied without appearing to notice any of its inconsistencies . 
`` You have not , '' she said , `` rightly judged me , Caroline . 
Ellen 's emotion checked her utterance for a moment : she then added , `` Caroline , it is best that we should understand one another perfectly . 
After a short pause , Ellen added in conclusion , `` there is one arrangement , Caroline , which , if I insist on controlling , you must not think I too soon assume the rights of an elder sister . 
Ellen , without seeming to notice her surprise , proceeded , `` in the present state of my feelings I wish particularly to avoid observation and remark . 
In assigning her motives , Ellen had avoided any reference to what she knew must be Caroline 's wishes on the subject . 
Caroline felt this delicacy to her heart 's core ; she was subdued by the pure goodness of Ellen ; she felt the influence of the holy principle that governed her sister 's mind , and penetrated with a poignant contrition like that which made the Egyptian king exclaim , ` truly , I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you ; ' she sunk on her knees -- the pride and haughtiness of her soul were vanquished -- she stretched out her arms with an almost oriental abjectness . 
Ellen raised her and clasped her arms around her . 
`` Oh , Ellen ! '' 
`` All is forgiven -- all forgotten , '' replied Ellen ; `` think no more of it , Caroline . 
`` Yes , I will go -- I will do every thing you ask of me , Ellen , '' said Caroline ; `` but first tell me , for I never can speak on the subject again , first tell me where those papers were found . 
Ellen could not satisfy Caroline 's curiosity to know the particulars of her servant 's unfaithfulness . 
She could inform her that the pacquet had been found in her apartment . 
whispered Ellen . 
Caroline and Ellen approached the bed together . 
Without superstition one might have believed that Ellen possessed a ` healing gift , ' so beneficent was the effect of her vigilant care . 
She was constantly at her father 's bedside , ministering to his mind and body , and performing all those tender and soothing offices which the sick so often feel to be more efficacious than the most skilfully compounded drugs . 
She never left her father 's room but for the purpose of renovating her strength and spirits by a few turns on the piazza with Westall . 
If her lover ever thought that her filial duty abstracted her too much from the reciprocation of their mutual feelings , -LRB- a natural jealousy , for a man is never satisfied without expressing what a woman is content with feeling , -RRB- he was quite consoled when , during these brief interviews , he listened to the detail of her feelings in relation to himself -- of her hopes and misgivings ; in short , to that whole history of the heart which is such delightful music to the lover 's ear -- and such very dull music to every other . 
Ellen communicated to Mrs. Westall and Miss Campbell the discovery of her parentage . 
Both , as might have been expected , received the intelligence with inexpressible delight : all human happiness must be qualified , and that of the two ladies was considerably abated by Ellen 's injunction to temporary secresy , and by her passing without the slightest notice over the particulars that led to the discovery . 
After Ellen had concluded her communication , and had received the embraces and congratulations of her friends , Grace Campbell 's smiles triumphed over the tears with which they had been conflicting , and she turned to Mrs. Westall and said , `` Well , my dear madam , I suppose you and I must put down all of mother Eve within us , for no evil spirit will enter this paradise that Ellen has conjured about her , to devise ways and means to relieve our curiosity . '' 
`` And , my dear friends , '' said Ellen , `` I am sure you will be content to endure that curiosity which could only be relieved by an evil spirit . '' 
`` But , my dear Ellen , as we are not permitted to see the ring or lamp -- the magic means , whatever they may be , by which you have attained the happy finale of your fairy tale -- do gratify me in one particular -- suffer me to produce a grand sensation once in my life -- allow me to proclaim you Ellen Redwoodbefore the world and in the presence of your disdainful sister ? '' 
`` A delightful arrangement to you ladies doubtless , '' said Miss Campbell ; `` but I confess I do not feel particularly flattered that Ellen should sever herself from our party with so much nonchalance , and form her exquisite plans without the slightest reference to us . '' 
`` You have not heard all our plans , my dear Grace , '' replied Ellen , with slight embarrassment ; `` we have been compelled by the necessity of the case to form them hastily : my father has expressed a wish that Caroline and I should be married at the same time ; to this I could not consent ; my duty to Mrs. Harrison -- my affection for her , forbids it . 
Ellen hesitated , and Miss Campbell said , `` this is all very pretty and very proper , but still there is no consolation for my self-love . '' 
`` You have not heard Ellen out , Miss Campbell , '' interposed Mrs. Westall ; `` the most agreeable part of all these arrangements is yet to come ; a part , which in right of Charles Westall 's mother , I have already been consulted on . 
My dear Ellen , I will take pity on your girlish reluctance to come to the point , and just tell Miss Campbell , in direct terms , that your wedding is to be celebrated at Lansdown , on the first day of September . '' 
`` Since Mrs. Westall has helped me on so far , my dear Grace , '' said Ellen , `` I will come to that point to which all this preamble has tended , and in as direct terms as Mrs. Westall 's , beg the favour of you to persuade your aunt to accommodate her progress to our snail 's pace , in order that I may have your support as my bride 's - maid . '' 
`` Thank you , thank you , Ellen . 
Now , as I am a little worldly in my views , I should like to know , Ellen , whether you and Westall are going to set up housekeeping in the Harrison mansion , and live upon love and verses , as Miss Debby would say ? '' 
`` Ellen assured Miss Campbell that she had no such romantic views , that on the contrary all due respect had been paid to their temporal affairs . 
She informed her that on account of Mr. Redwood 's health , they were to pass the winter in Virginia -- that in the Spring they were to return to New-England -- that Mr. Westall was then to form a partnership which had long been projected with an eminent lawyer , and enter upon the business of his profession . 
`` My prudence is quite satisfied , '' said Miss Campbell , when Ellen had concluded : `` and now , my dear friend , `` tell me , are you never to appear as Ellen Redwood ? '' 
Ellen , Westall , and his mother were there , awaiting them . 
He drew Caroline to him , and put his arm round her -- `` My dear child , '' he said , `` before the clergyman is admitted , I have somewhat to say to you . 
`` Caroline , I have made Ellen acquainted with your generous wish that a large portion of your fortune should be conveyed to her ; but Ellen is a nice casuist , and she has convinced me that I have no right to make any disposition of a property which descends to you from her mother . '' 
`` Oh , Ellen ! '' 
`` My dear Caroline , '' replied Ellen , `` if I needed an atonement , your kindness and confidence are an ample one -- that I have accepted -- I can accept no other . '' 
`` My small patrimonial inheritance , '' resumed Mr. Redwood , `` has been increased by the legacy of an uncle , and though my fortune is still moderate , it is quite adequate to my own wants , and to Ellen 's very maderate desires . 
After a brief pause , Mr. Redwood continued , `` I am now going , my dear child , to bestow on you an inestimable treasure , '' he put into her hands the Bible he had received from Ellen , `` this your sister gave to me with prophetic benevolence -- she knows that her purpose has been accomplished -- the dark shadows of unbelief have passed from my mind for ever -- the terrors that threatened to annihilate my reason are vanquished -- the life-giving truths , and immortal hopes of that book have translated me from darkness to light . 
Caroline , deeply affected , knelt before her father -- Ellen sunk on her knees beside her , and clasping her arm around her sister , she raised her tearful eyes to Mr. Redwood , `` severed -- strangers , '' she said , `` as we have been on earth , we may yet be a family in heaven . '' 
responded her father fervently , and for a few moments he bent his head in silence over his daughters : he then raised them , gave Caroline 's hand to Fitzgerald and Ellen 's to Westall . 
So you see , my dear Ellen , I e ` en have to put my hand to the plough . 
I find that the older I grow , the more I love to talk ; and some how or other I always did love , above all things , to hold discourse with you , Ellen . 
she is too feeling a creature for this world ; and I am thankful she is going to you , Ellen , who know all about feelings , and can temper hers . 
`` Mrs. Campbell had not heard a word of the death of Captain Fitzgerald and his wife , till I told her about it : and I declare Ellen , it was a teaching providence to me when I heard it ; and I could not but think of the time when I saw them at Lebanon , so young , so blooming , and so handsome , stepping over the earth with a step so light and so lofty , that it seemed not to be in all their thoughts that they must ever lie down under the cold clods . 
I am sure , when she was flaunting away here at Eton , I never thought I should have wet my old eyes for her ; but for all , I did cry like a child when sister Lenox received your father 's letter , telling all about her death , and that her last words were to beg them to send her little girl to you , and ask you to make her like yourself . 
However , Ellen , as it would not be pleasing to you to have any thing cast up against your sister , especially since she is dead and gone , I will say no more upon this head ; only to observe , that if this child lives to grow up under your training , the world will see that a woman 's being beautiful and rich need not hinder her from being wise and good too : and it seemeth to me , that though God respecteth not the outward show , the more beautiful the temple is , the more fitting it is for a dwelling-place of his spirit ; and I think it would be a pleasing and edifying sight to see the perfection of earth , and the beauty of heaven built up and fitly framed together . 
`` Often , when I am alone and considering , my thoughts turn upon you Ellen , and upon all that happened before your sister went off to them West Indies , which have proved her death ; and thinking of you brings to mind some passages of Scripture , which have been remarkably acted upon in your life ; and first , in the sixteenth chapter of Proverbs and the seventh verse , Solomon says , ` when a man 's ways please the Lord , he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him ' -- and in the New Testament scriptures it is written , ` be not wearied with well doing ' -- overcome evil with good , ' and so on Now , in my view , these texts appear as a kind of history to what passed between you and Caroline ; and it is a comforting thing to see such a plain agreement between the book of experience and the book of God 's word -- that is to say , to see a Christian 's life a scripture proof . 
`` Caroline 's behaviour at the upshot , was a satisfaction to me in many ways , and especially as it helped to build me up in the doctrine I have always maintained , namely , that there is no soil so hard bound and so barren but what , if you work upon it long enough , you make it bring forth some good thing at last ; not that it will equal that soil which is warm and rich at the start , and is from the beginning diligently opened for the sun of God 's grace to shine in upon it , and the dews of heaven to nourish it -- a soil like -- I must write it out -- like your heart , Ellen . 
`` Your worldly condition , Ellen , seemed to me to be conformable to Agur 's prayer -- ` give me neither poverty nor riches ' -- a prayer that every one professes to approve , but I am sorry to say , I have observed but few whose conduct bears out the profession . 
`` In conclusion , my dear Ellen , I have only to say , that as your light has shone brightly in adversity I pray it may shine on in prosperity , making glad many hearts long and long after death hath closed the eyes of LONDON : SHACKELL AND ARROWSMITH , JOHNSON 'S - COURT , FLEET-STREET . 
