Montraville had placed her in a small house a few miles from New-York : he gave her one female attendant , and supplied her with what money she wanted ; but business and pleasure so entirely occupied his time , that he had little to devote to the woman whom he had brought from all her connections , and robbed of innocence . 
JuliaFranklin was the only child of a man of large property , who , at the age of eighteen , left her independent mistress of an unincumbered income of seven hundred a year ; she was a girl of a lively disposition , and humane , susceptible heart : she resided in New-York with an uncle , who loved her too well , and had too high an opinion of her prudence , to scrutinize her actions so much as would have been necessary with many young ladies , who were not blest with her discretion : she was , at the time Montraville arrived at New-York , the life of society , and the universal toast . 
Montraville was introduced to her by the following accident . 
In the midst of the confusion an old gentleman came up to Montraville , and , putting a small box into his hands , cried -- `` Keep it , my good Sir , till I come to you again ; '' and then rushing again into the thickest of the croud , Montraville saw him no more . 
He waited till the fire was quite extinguished and the mob dispersed ; but in vain : the old gentleman did not appear to claim his property ; and Montraville , fearing to make an enquiry , lest he should meet with impostors who might lay claim , without any legal right , to the box , carried it to his lodgings , and locked it up : he naturally imagined that the person who committed it to his care knew him , and would , in a day or two , reclaim it ; but several weeks passed on , and no enquiry being made , he began to be uneasy , and resolved to examine the contents of the box , and if they were , as he supposed , valuable , to spare no pains to discover , and restore them to the owner . 
This whole evening Montraville was honoured with Julia 's hand ; the lively sallies of her wit , the elegance of her manner , powerfully charmed him : he forgot Charlotte , and indulged himself in saying every thing that was polite and tender to Julia . 
Montraville glanced his eye on her grey night gown and black ribbon , and his own feelings prevented a reply . 
`` I have been mistaken , '' said Montraville . 
Full of these painful thoughts , Montraville walkout to see Charlotte : she saw him approach , and ran out to meet him : she banished from her countenance the air of discontent which ever appeared when he was absent , and met him with a smile of joy . 
`` I thought you had forgot me , Montraville , '' said she , `` and was very unhappy . '' 
Montraville was glad to retire , and by pretending sleep , hid the agitation of his mind from her penetrating eye . 
WhenCharlotte awoke , she missed Montraville ; but thinking he might have arisen early to enjoy the beauties of the morning , she was preparing to follow him , when casting her eye on the table , she saw a note , and opening it hastily , found these words -- `` My dear Charlotte must not be surprised , if she does not see me again for some time : unavoidable business will prevent me that pleasure : be assured I am quite well this morning ; and what your fond imagination magnified into illness , was nothing more than fatigue , which a few hours rest has entirely removed . 
Make yourself happy and be certain of the unalterable friendship of `` Montraville . '' 
Montraville is no longer interested in thy happiness ; and shame , remorse , and disappointed love will henceforth be thy only attendents . '' 
The dejection visible in Charlotte 's countenance , her swoln eyes and neglected attire , at once told him she was unhappy : he made no doubt but Montraville had , by his coldness , alarmed her suspicions , and was resolved , if possible , to rouse her to jealousy , urge her to reproach him , and by that means occasion a breach between them . 
`` I rather suspect , '' said Mrs. Beauchamp , `` they have never had your letters : but suppose you were to hear from them , and they were willing to receive you , would you then leave this cruel Montraville , and return to them ? '' 
This man , this cruel Montraville , for whom I sacrificed honour , happiness , and the love of my friends , no longer looks on me with affection , but scorns the credulous girl whom his art has made miserable . 
I beseech you , curse me not , my adored parents , but let a tear of pity and pardon fall to the memory of your lost WhileCharlotte was enjoying some small degree of comfort in the consoling friendship of Mrs. Beauchamp , Montraville was advancing rapidly in his affection towards Miss Franklin . 
Julia was an amiable girl ; she saw only the fair side of his character ; she possessed an independant fortune , and resolved to be happy with the man of her heart , though his rank and fortune were by no means so exalted as she had a right to expect ; she saw the passion which Montraville struggled to conceal ; she wondered at his timidity , but imagined the distance fortune had placed between them occasioned his backwardness , and made every advance which strict prudence and a becoming modesty would permit . 
Montraville saw with pleasure he was not indifferent to her , but a spark of honour which animated his bosom would not suffer him to take advantage of her partiality . 
Dear Montraville , act more like a man of sense ; this whining , pining Charlotte , who occasions you so much uneasiness , would have eloped with somebody else if she had not with you . '' 
`` Would to heaven , '' said Montraville , `` I had never seen her ; my regard for her was but the momentary passion of desire , but I feel I shall love and revere Julia Franklin as long as I live ; yet to leave poor Charlotte in her present situation would be cruel beyond description . '' 
Montraville started . 
Montraville turned pale as ashes . 
said Montraville , `` what poignant reflections does a man endure who sees a lovely woman plunged in infamy , and is conscious he was her first seducer ; but are you certain of what you say , Belcour ? '' 
Montraville was too much agitated to pass a happy evening even in the company of Julia Franklin : he determined to visit Charlotte early the next morning , tax her with her falsehood , and take an everlasting leave of her ; but when the morning came , he was commanded on duty , and for six weeks was prevented from putting his design in execution . 
The noise awoke Charlotte : terrified at the furious appearance of Montraville , and seeing Belcour with him in the chamber , she caught hold of his arm as he stood by the bed side , and eagerly asked what was the matter . 
`` Oh Montraville , '' said she , `` kill me , for pity 's sake kill me , but do not doubt my fidelity . 
Belcour cast on Montraville a smile of contempt : it irritated him almost to madness ; he broke from the feeble arms of the distressed girl ; she shricked and sell prostrate on the floor . 
Montraville instantly left the house and returned hastily to the city . 
The afternoon on which Montraville had visited her she had found herself languid and fatigued , and after making a very slight dinner had lain down to endeavour to recruit her exhausted spirits , and , contrary to her expectations , had fallen asleep . 
She had not long been lain down , when Belcour arrived , for he took every opportunity of visiting her , and striving to awaken her resentment against Montraville . 
He enquired of the servant where her mistress was , and being told she was asleep , took up a book to amuse himself : having sat a few minutes , he by chance cast his eyes towards the road , and saw Montraville approaching ; he instantly conceived the diabolical scheme of ruining the unhappy Charlotte in his opinion for ever ; he therefore stole softly up stairs , and laying himself by her side with the greatest precaution , for fear she should awake , was in that situation discovered by his credulous friend . 
When Montraville spurned the weeping Charlotte from him , and left her almost distracted with terror and despair , Belcour raised her from the floor , and leading her down stairs , assumed the part of a tender , consoling friend ; she listened to the arguments he advanced with apparent composure ; but this was only the calm of a moment : the remembrance of Montraville 's recent cruelty again rushed upon her mind : she pushed him from her with some violence , and crying -- `` Leave me , Sir , I beseech you leave me , for much I fear you have been the cause of my fidelity being suspected ; go , leave me to the accumulated miseries my own imprudence has brought upon me . '' 
It now occurred to Belcour that she might possibly write to Montraville , and endeavour to convince him of her innocence : he was well aware of her pathetic remonstrances , and , sensible of the tenderness of Montraville 's heart , resolved to prevent any letters ever reaching him : he therefore called the servant , and , by the powerful persuasion of a bribe , prevailed with her to promise whatever letters her mistress might write should be sent to him . 
His first business was to seek Montraville , and endeavour to convince him that what had happened would ultimately tend to his happiness : he found him in his apartment , solitary , pensive , and wrapped in disagreeable reflexions . 
Montraville started ; a momentary flush of resentment crossed his cheek , but instantly gave place to a death-like paleness , occasioned by painful remembrance -- remembrance awakened by that monitor , whom , though we may in vain endeavour , we can never entirely silence . 
`` True , '' said Montraville ; `` but she was innocent when I first knew her . 
I beseech you , name not the lovely Julia and the wretched Montraville in the same breath . 
`` Perhaps she wishes my company , '' said Montraville mentally , as he snatched up his hat : `` if I thought she loved me , I would consess my errors , and trust to her generosity to pity and pardon me . '' 
It was a fine evening in the beginning of autumn ; the last remains of day-light faintly streaked the western sky , while the moon , with pale and virgin lustre , in the room of gorgeous gold and purple , ornamented the canopy of heaven with silver , fleecy clouds , which now and then half hid her lovely face , and , by partly concealing , heightened every beauty ; the zephyrs whispered softly through the trees , which now began to shed their leafy honours ; a solemn silence reigned : and to a happy mind an evening such as this would give serenity , and calm , unrusfled pleasure ; but to Montraville , while it soothed the turbulence of his passions , it brought increase of melancholy reflections . 
Julia was embarrassed ; she wished to break a silence so unaccountable , but was unable ; she loved Montraville , she saw he was unhappy , and wished to know the cause of his uneafiness , but that innate modesty which nature has implanted in the female breast , prevented her enquiring . 
At Mr. Franklin 's door Montraville again preffed Julia 's hand , and faintly articulating `` good night , '' retired to his lodgings dispirited and wretched , from a consciousness that he deserved not the affection , with which he plainly saw he was honoured . 
Inthe mean time the passion Montraville had conceived for Julia Franklin daily increased , and he saw evidently how much he was beloved by that amiable girl : he was likewise strongly prepossessed with an idea of Charlotte 's persidy . 
Belcour promised to fulfil the request of his friend , though nothing was farther from his intentions , than the least design of delivering the letter , or making Charlotte acquainted with the provision Montraville had made for her ; he was bent on the complete ruin of the unhappy girl , and supposed , by reducing her to an entire dependance on him , to bring her by degrees to consent to gratify his ungenerous passion . 
The evening before the day appointed for the nuptials of Montraville and Julia , the former retired early to his apartment ; and ruminating on the past scenes of his life , suffered the keenest remorse in the remembrance of Charlotte 's seduction . 
Several letters were begun and destroyed : at length he completed the following : `` Though I have taken up my pen to address you , my poor injured girl , I feel I am inadequate to the task ; yet , however painful the endeavour , I could not resolve upon leaving you for ever without one kind line to bid you adieu , to tell you how my heart bleeds at the remembrance of what you was , before you saw the hated Montraville . 
No , thou dear , fsallen angel , believe your repentant Montraville , when he tells you the man who truly loves will never betray the object of his affection . 
Charlottehad now been left almost three months a prey to her own melancholy reflexions -- sad companions indeed ; nor did any one break in upon her solitude but Belcour , who once or twice called to enquire after her health , and tell her he had in vain endeavoured to bring Montraville to hear reason ; and once , but only once , was her mind cheared by the receipt of an affectionate letter from Mrs. Beauchamp . 
Often had she wrote to her persidious seducer , and with the most persuasive eloquence endeavoured to convince him of her innocence ; but these letters were never suffered to reach the hands of Montraville , or they must , though on the very eve of marriage , have prevented his deserting the wretched girl . 
Great as the alteration was which incessant sorrow had made on her person she was still interesting , still charming ; and the unhallowed slame , which had urged Belcour to plant diffension between her and Montraville , still raged in his bosom : he was determined if poffible , to make her his mistress ; nay , he had even conceived the diabolical scheme of taking her to New-York , and making her appear in every public place where it was likely she should meet Montraville , that he might be a witness to his unmanly triumph . 
Belcour was awed to silence : he dared not interrupt her ; and after a moment 's pause she proceeded -- `` I once had conceived the thought of going to New-York to seek out the still dear , though cruel , ungenerous Montraville , to throw myself at his feet , and entreat his compassion ; heaven knows , not for myself ; if I am no longer beloved , I will not be indebted to his pity to redress my injuries , but I would have knelt and entreated him not to forsake my poor unborn -- '' She could say no more ; a crimson glow rushed over her cheeks , and covering her face with her hands , she sobbed aloud . 
Something like humanity was awakened in Belcour 's breast by this pathetic speech : he arose and walked towards the window ; but the selfish passion which had taken possession of his heart soon stifled these finer emotions ; and he thought if Charlotte was once convinced she had no longer any dependance on Montraville , she would more readily throw herself on his protection . 
Determined , therefore , to inform her of all that had happened , he again resumed his seat ; and finding she began to be more composed , enquired if she had ever heard from Montraville since the unfortunate rencontre in her bed chamber . 
Oh Montraville , may God forgive your perfidy . '' 
The fits she had been seized with had greatly terrified him ; and confined as she now was to a bed of sickness , she was no longer an object of desire : it is true for several days he went constantly to see her , but her pale , emaciated appearance disgusted him : his visits became less frequent ; he forgot the solemn charge given him by Montraville ; he even forgot the money entrusted to his care ; and , the burning blush of indignation and shame tinges my cheek while I write it , this disgrace to humanity and manhood at length forgot even the injured Charlotte ; and , attracted by the blooming health of a farmer 's daughter , whom he had seen in his frequent excursions to the country , he left the unhappy girl to sink unnoticed to the grave , a prey to sickness , grief and penury ; while he , having triumphed over the virtue of the artless cottager , rioted in all the intemperance of luxury and lawless pleasure . 
-- if she did , my dear Miss , it was only to laugh at the poor girl 's want of spirit in consenting to be moped up in the country , while Montraville was enjoying all the pleasures of a gay , dissipated city . 
Montraville placed me here , and promised to defray all my expenses : but he has forgot his promise , he has forsaken me , and I have no friend who has either power or will to relieve me . 
It may be asked by those , who , in a work of this kind , love to cavil at every trifling omission , whether Charlotte did not possess any valuable of which she could have disposed , and by that means have supported herself till Mrs. Beauchamp 's return , when she would have been certain of receiving every tender attention which compassion and friendship could dictate : but let me entreat these wise , penetrating gentlemen to reflect , that when Charlotte left England , it was in such haste that there was no time to purchase any thing more than what was wanted for immediate use on the voyage , and after her arrival at New-York , Montraville 's affection soon began to decline , so that her whole wardrobe consisted of only necessaries , and as to baubles , with which fond lovers often load their mistresses , she possessed not one , except a plain gold locket of small value , which contained a lock of her mother 's hair , and which the greatest extremity of want could not have forced her to part with . 
`` Julia Franklin , '' said Charlotte ; `` is she not married to Montraville ? '' 
`` Gracious heaven , '' cried Charlotte , `` is Montraville then unjust to none but me . '' 
In vain did Charlotte recount the time they had known each other at Chichester , in vain mention their being in the same ship , in vain were the names of Montraville and Belcour mentioned . 
Charlotte had now been three days with her humane preservers , but she was totally insensible of every thing : she raved incessantly for Montraville and her father : she was not conscious of being a mother , nor took the least notice of her child , except to ask whose it was , and why it was not carried to its parents . 
Inthe mean time Montraville having received orders to return to New-York , arrived , and having still some remains of compassionate tenderness for the woman whom he regarded as brought to shame by himself , he went out in search of Belcour , to enquire whether she was safe , and whether the child lived . 
`` I can not believe it possible '' said Montraville , `` that a mind once so pure as Charlotte Temple 's , should so suddenly become the mansion of vice . 
It was nearly dark : he heard from a neighbouring steeple a solemn toll that seemed to say some poor mortal was going to their last mansion ; the sound struck on the heart of Montraville , and he involuntarily stopped , when , from one of the houses he saw the appearance of a funeral . 
Montraville stood motionless , and the man proceeded -- `` I met her myself not a fortnight since one night ll wet and cold in the street ; she went to Madam Crayton 's , but she would not take her in , and so the poor thing went raving mad . '' 
Montraville could bear no more ; he struck his hands against his forehead with violence ; and exclaiming `` poor murdered Charlotte ! '' 
`` If thou art the father of Charlotte Temple , '' said he , gazing at him with mingled horror and amazement -- `` if thou art her father -- I am Montraville . '' 
He turned from him ; and Montraville starting up from the ground , where he had thrown himself , and at that instant remembering the perfidy of Belcour , flew like lightning to his lodgings . 
Belcour was intoxicated ; Montraville impetuous : they fought , and the sword of the latter entered the heart of his adversary . 
Montraville had received a slight wound ; and overcome with the agitation of his mind and loss of blood , was carried in a state of insensibility to his distracted wife . 
