`` Och , it was a piteous sight the day he left this : he was leaning on the Lady Glorvina 's arm , as he walked out to the chaise . 
`` James Tyral , '' says he to me in Irish , for I caught his eye ; `` James Tyral , '' but he could say no more , for the old tenants kept crying about him , and he put his mantle to his eyes and hurried into the chaise ; the Lady Glorvina kissing her hand to us all , and crying bitterly till she was out of sight . 
I can not well tell you what the Lady Glorvina is , for she is like nothing upon the face of God 's creation but herself . 
Some domestics , with an air of mingled concern and curiosity , surrounded my couch ; and at her father 's side stood the Lady Glorvina , her looks paleand disordered , and her trembling hands busily employed in preparing bandages , for which my skilful doctress impatiently called . 
-- That angel was Glorvina ! 
-- I closed them , and sunk on the bosom of her father `` Oh , he faints again ! '' 
`` It indeed beats most wildly , '' returned the sweet physician -- for the pulse , which responded to her finger 's thrilling pressure , moved with no languid throb . 
now jewel , '' she continued , `` there is our Lady Glorvina now , who with all her skill , and knowing every leaf that grows , why she could no more set your arm than she could break it . 
it was herself that turned white , when she saw the blood upon your face , for she was the first to hear you fall , and hasten down to have you picked up ; at first , faith , we thought you were a robber ; but it was all one to her ; into the castle you must be brought , and when she saw the blood spout from your temple -- Holy Virgin ! 
she looked for all the world as if she was kilt dead herself . '' 
`` And is she , '' said I , in the selfishness of my heart , `` is she always thus humanely interested for the unfortunate ? '' 
it is she that is tender-hearted for man or beast , '' replied my companion . 
Awakened by the sudden and terrific motion it excited , though still almost motionless , as if from the effects of a night-mare -LRB- which in fact , from the position I lay in , had oppressed me in the form of the Princess , -RRB- I cast my eyes through a fracture in the old damask drapery of my bed , and beheld -- not the horrid spectre of my recent dream , but the form of a cherub hovering near my pillow -- it was the Lady Glorvina herself ! 
She was seated on the nurse 's little stool . 
Her elbow resting on her knee , her cheek reclined upon her hand ; for once the wish of Romeo appeared no hyperbola . 
Some snow-drops lay scattered in her lap , on which her downcast eyes shed their beams ; as though she moralized over the modest blossoms , which , in fate and delicacy , resembled herself . 
Changing her pensive attitude , she collected them into a bunch , and sighed , and waved her head as she gazed on them . 
At last , with a tender smile , she raised them to her lip , and sighed , and placed them in her bosom ; then softly drew aside my curtain . 
I feigned the stillness of death -- yet the curtain remained unclosed -- many minutes elapsed -- I ventured to unseal my eyes , and met the soul dissolving glance of my sweet attendant spirit , who seemed to gaze intently on her charge . 
Glorvina sprung towards her tutor , and told him aloud , that the nurse had entreated her to take her place , while she descended to dinner . 
`` However , '' said Glorvina , smiling , `` I will gratify you by resigning for the present in your favour ; '' and away she flew , speaking in Irish to the nurse , who passed her at the door . 
'T is , indeed , impossible to look less like one who spouts Latin with the priest of the parish , than this same Glorvina . 
There is something beautifully wild about her air and look , that is indescribable ; and , without a very perfect regularity of feature , she possesses that effulgency of countenance , that bright lumine purpureo , which poetry assigns to the dazzling emanations of divine beauty . 
In short , there are a thousand little fugitive graces playing around her , which are not beauty , but the cause of it ; and were I to personify the word spell , she should sit for the picture ... A thousand times she swims before my sight as I last beheld her ; her locks of living gold parting on her brow of snow , yet seeming to separate with reluctance , as they were lightly shaken off with that motion of the head , at once so infantine and graceful ; a motion twice put into play , as her recumbent attitude poured the luxuriancy of her tresses over her face and neck , for she was unveiled , and a small gold bodkin was unequal to support the redundancy of that beautiful hair , which I more than once apostrophized in the words of Petrarch : `` Onde totse amor l'oro e di qual vena Per far due treccie biondê , '' & c. I understand a servant is dispatched once a week to the next post town , with and for letters ; and this intelligence absolutely amazed me ; for I am astonished that these beings , who `` Look not like the inhabitants of the earth , And yet are on it , '' should hold any intercourse with the world . 
These good people , however , would have persuaded me into the possession of a slow fever , and confined me to my room another day , had not the harp of Glorvina , with `` supernatural solicitings , '' spoken more irresistibly to my heart than all their eloquence . 
I had just made my toilette , for the first time since my arrival at the castle ; and with a black ribbon of the nurse 's across my forehead , and silk handkerchief of the priest 's supporting my arm , with my own `` customary suit of solemn black , '' tintless cheek , languid eye , and pensive air , I looked indeed as though `` melancholy had marked me for her own ; ' or an excellent personification of `` pining atrophy '' in its last stage of decline . 
`` It is Glorvina then , '' said I , `` and alone ! '' 
Well , having finished the same circuitous journey that a squirrel diurnally performs in his cage , I found myself landed in a dark stone passage , which was terminated by the identical chamber of fatal memory already mentioned , and through the vista of a huge folding door , partly thrown back , beheld the form of Glorvina ! 
`` How consonant , '' thought I , gazing at Glorvina , `` to the sublimated tone of our present feelings . '' 
Glorvina waved her head in accedence to the idea , as though my lips had given it birth . 
At that moment Glorvina was summoned to dinner by a servant , for she only is permitted to dine with the Prince , as being of royal descent . 
The vision dissolved -- she was again the proud Milesian Princess , and I the poor wandering artist -- the eleemosynary guest of her hospitable mansion . 
The priest and I dined tête-a-tête ; and , for the first time , he had all the conversation to himself ; he entered deeply into Locke and Malbranche , solving quidities , and starting hypotheses , to which I assented with great gravity , while I thought only of Glorvina . 
`` Yes , '' said he , `` she inherits them from her mother , who obtained the appellation of Glorvina , from the sweetness of her voice , by which name our little friend was baptized at her mother 's request . '' 
Glorvina has been confined in her father 's room during the whole of the evening -- to this circumstance you are indebted for my long letter . 
To prolong my visit till the arrival of my father in this country was my object ; and , how to effect the desired purpose , the theme of cogitation during the whole of the restless night which succeeded my interview with Glorvina ; indeed to confess the truth , I believe this interview was not the least potent spell which fascinated me to Inismore . 
If I recollect right , somebody has defined genius to be ` the various powers of a strong mind directed to one point : ' making it the result of combined force , not the vital source whence all intellectual powers flow ; in which light the genius of Glorvina has ever appeared to me as a beam from heaven , an emanation of divine intelligence , whose nutritive warmth cherishes into existence that richness and variety of talent which wants only a little care to rear it to perfection . 
And at that moment Glorvina appeared , springing lightly forward , like Gresset 's beautiful personification of Health : `` As Hebe swift , as Venus fair , Youthful , lovely , light as air . '' 
As soon as she perceived me , she stopt abruptly , blushed , and , returning my salutation , advanced to the priest ; then , twining her arm familiarly in his , said with an air of playful tenderness , `` Oh ! 
Receive , then , my offering , '' she added with a smile ; and , while she fondly placed it in his breast , with an air of exquisite naiveté , to my astonishment she repeated from B. Tasso , those lines so consonant to the tender simplicity of the act in which she was engaged : `` Poiche d'altro honorate Non posso , prendi lieta Queste negre viole Dall umor rugiadose . '' 
The priest gazed at her with looks of parental affection , and said , `` Your offering , my dear , is indeed the `` Incense of the heart ; '' `` and more precious to the receiver , than the richest donation that ever decked the shrine of Loretto . 
I took it in silence , but raised it no higher than my lip -- the eye of Glorvina met mine , as my kiss breathed upon her flower . 
and the next -- yet I know not how it was , or whether the motion was made by her , or by me , or by the priest -- but , somehow , Glorvina had gotten between us , and , while I gazed at her beautiful flower , I personified the blossom , and addressed to her the happiest lines that form `` La Guirlande de Julie , '' while , as I repeated `` Mais , si sur votre front je peux briller un jour , La plus humble des fleurs sera la plus superbe ; '' I reposed it for a moment on her brow , in passing it over to the priest . 
said she , with an arch smile , `` I perceive you too will expect a tributary flower for these charming lines ; and the summer 's first rose '' -- she paused abruptly ; but her eloquent eye continued , `` should be thine , but that thou may ` st be far hence when the summer 's first rose appears . '' 
I stole a look at Glorvina , whose cheek now emulated the tint of the theme of our conversation ; and , plucking a thistle that sprung from a broken pediment , she blew away its down with her balmy breath , merely to hide her confusion . 
Surely she is the most sensient of all created beings ! 
I beseech you go on , '' exclaimed Glorvina ; and , at her request , I finished the poem . 
said she , with enthusiasm . 
-- Glorvina raised her humid eyes to mine , and I read the parallel there . 
At these words he took out his pocket-book , laughing at his gratified vengeance , while Glorvina coaxed , blushed , and threatened ; until , snatching the book out of his hand , as he was endeavouring to put it into mine , away she flew like lightning , laughing heartily at her triumph , in all the elixity and playfulness of a youthful spirit . 
said I , as she kissed her hand to us in her airy flight . 
When we reached the castle , we found her waiting for us at the breakfast table , flushed with her race -- all animation , all spirits ! 
her reserve seemed gradually to vanish , and nothing could be more interesting , yet more enjouée , than her manner and conversation . 
While the fertility of her imagination supplied incessant topic of conversation , always new , always original , I could not help reverting in idea to those languid tête-à-têtes , even in the hey-day of our intercourse , when Lady C -- and I have sat yawning at each other , or biting our fingers , merely for want of something to say , in those intervals of passion , which every connexion , even of the tenderest nature , must sustain -- she in the native dearth of her mind , and I in the habitual apathy of mine . 
`` And I will assist you , '' said Glorvina . 
Seriously , however , I enter on my new studies with avidity , and read from the morning 's first dawn till the usual hour of breakfast , which is become to me as much the banquet of the heart as the Roman supper was to the Augustan wits `` the feast of reason and the flow of soul , '' -- for it is the only meal at which Glorvina presides . 
Two hours each day does the kind priest devote to my philological pursuits , while Glorvina , who is frequently present on these occasions , makes me repeat some short poem or song after her , that I may catch the pronunciation -LRB- which is almost unattainable -RRB- ; she then translates them into English , which I word for word write down . 
Here then is a specimen of Irish poetry , which is generally the effusion of some blind itinerant bard , or some rustic minstrel , into whose breast the genius of his country has breathed inspiration , as he patiently drove the plough , or laboriously worked in the bog.Miss Brooks , in her elegant version of the works of some of the Irish Bards , says , '' 'T is scarcely possible that any language can be more adapted to lyric poetry than the Irish ; so great is the smoothness and harmony of its numbers : it is also possessed of a refined delicacy , a descriptive power , and an exquisite tender simplicity of expression : two or three little artless words , or perhaps a single epithet , will sometimes convey such an image of sentiment or suffering to the mind , that one lays down the book to look at the picture . '' 
This little song is of so ancient a date , that Glorvina assures me , neither the name of the composer -LRB- for the melody is exquisitely beautiful -RRB- nor the poet have escaped the oblivion of time . 
When I remarked the coincidence of style which existed between the early Greek writers and the bards of Erin , Glorvina replied , with a smile , `` In drawing this analogy , you think , perhaps , to flatter my national vanity ; but the truth is , we trace the spirit of Milesian poetry to a higher source than the spring of Grecian genius ; for many figures in Irish song are of oriental origin ; and the bards who ennobled the train of our Milesian founders , and who awakened the soul of song here , seem , in common with the Greek poets , ` to have kindled their poetic fires at those unextinguished lamps which burn within the tomb of oriental genius . ' 
said Glorvina -- `` this is a day of jubilee to them , for a great annual fair is held in the neighbourhood . '' 
`` Certainly they are , '' she replied , `` and the colours , which the Irish were celebrated for wearing and dying a thousand years back , are now most prevalent . 
`` I have heard Father John say , '' she returned , `` that saffron , as an article of importation , could never have been at any time cheap enough for general use . 
`` See , '' she added , springing lightly forward , and culling a plant which grew from the mountain 's side -- `` see this little blossom , which they call here ` yellow lady 's bed-straw , ' and which you , as a botanist , will better recognize as the Galicens borum ; it communicates a beautiful yellow ; as does the Lichen juniperinus , or ` cypress moss , ' which you brought me yesterday ; and I think the resida Luteola , or ` yellow weed , ' surpasses them all.Purple , blue , and green dyes , were introduced by Tighwmas the Great , in the year of the world 2815 . 
`` Nay , '' she continued , observing , I believe , the admiration that sparkled in my eyes , `` give me no credit , I beseech you , for this local information , for there is not a peasant girl in the neighbourhood , but will tell you more on the subject . '' 
While she was thus dispensing knowledge with the most unaffected simplicity of look and manner , a group of boys advanced towards us , with a car laden with stones , and fastened to the back of an unfortunate dog , which they were endeavouring to train to this new species of canine avocation , by such unmerciful treatment as must have procured the wretched animal a speedy release from all his sufferings . 
Glovina no sooner perceived this , than she flew to the dog , and while the boys looked all amaze , affected his liberation , and by her caresses endeavoured to sooth him into forgetfulness of his late sufferings ; then turning to the ringleader , she said : `` Dermot , I have so often heard you praised for your humanity to animals , that I can scarcely believe it possible that you have been accessary to the sufferings of this useful and affectionate animal ; he is just as serviceable to society in his way , as you are in your 's , and you are just as well able to drag a loaded cart as he is to draw that little car . 
Away went Dermot , dragged on by the rest of the boys , while Glorvina , delighted as a child , with her new mode of conveyance , laughed with all her heart , and kissed her hand to me as she flew along ; while I , trembling for her safety , endeavoured to keep pace with her triumphal chariot , till her wearied , breathless Phaeton , unable to run any further with his lovely , laughing burthen , begged a respite . 
said she , `` weary of this amusement , and yet you have not at every step been cruelly lashed , like your poor dog . '' 
When Glorvina had translated to me the subject of her short dialogue with Dermot , she added , laughing , `` Oh ! 
`` Nay , '' she returned , `` you always seem inclined to flatter me into approbation of myself ! 
`` To say that you are an angel , '' said I , `` is to say a very common-place thing , which every man says to the woman he either does , or affects to admire ; and yet -- '' `` Nay , '' -- interrupted she , laying her hand on my arm , and looking up full in my face with that arch glance I have so often caught revelling in her eloquent eye -- `` I am not emulous of a place in the angelic choir ; canonization is more consonant to my papistical ambition ; then let me be your saint -- your tutelar saint , and -- '' `` And let me '' interrupted I , impassionately -- `` let me , like the members of the Greek church , adore my saint , not by prostration , but by a kiss ; '' -- and , for the first time in my life , I pressed my lips to the beautiful hand which still rested on my arm , and from which I first drew a glove that has not since left my bosom , nor been re-demanded by its charming owner . 
The drawing which I made of the castle is finished -- the Prince is charmed with it , and Glorvina insisted on copying it . 
This was as I expected -- as I wished ; and I took care to finish it so minutely , that her patience -LRB- of which she has no great store -RRB- , should soon be exhausted in the imitation , and I should have something more of her attention than she generally affords me at the drawing-desk . 
Yesterday , in the absence of the priest , I read to her as she drew . 
After a thousand little symptoms of impatience and weariness -- `` here , '' said she , yawning -- `` here is a straight line I can make nothing of -- do you know , Mr. Mortimer , I never could draw a perpendicular line in my life . 
`` Well then , '' said she playfully , `` do it yourself . '' 
Away she flew to her harp ; while I , half lamenting , half triumphing , in my forbearance , took her pencil and her seat . 
I perceived , however , that she had not even drawn a single line of the picture , and yet her paper was not a mere carte-blanche -- for close to the margin was written in a fairy hand , ` Henry Mortimer , April 2d , 10 o'clock , ' -- the very day and hour of my entrance into the castle ; and in several places , the half-defaced features of a face evidently a copy of my own , were still visible . 
Glorvina ran and shook hands with him , as though she had not seen him for an age , and flew out of the room ; while I , effacing the quotation , but not the honoured inscription , asked Father John 's opinion of my effort at portrait painting . 
That beautifully pensive expression which touches the countenance of Glorvina , when breathing her native strains , I have most happily caught ; and her costume , attitude , and harp , form as happy a combination of traits , as a single portrait perhaps ever presented . 
Nothing can be more delightful than the evenings passed in this vengolf -- this hall of Woden ; where my sweet Glorvina hovers round us , like one of the beautiful valkyries of the Gothic paradise , who bestow on the spirit of the departed warrior that heaven he eagerly rushes on death to obtain . 
Sometimes she accompanies the old bard on her harp , or with her voice ; and frequently , as she sits at her wheel , -LRB- for she is often engaged in this simple and primitive avocation , -RRB- endeavours to lure her father to speak on those subjects most interesting to him or to me ; or , joining the general conversation , by the playfulness of her humour or the original whimsicality of her sallies materially contributes to the `` molle atque facetum `` of the moment . 
On the evening of the day of the picture scene , the absence of Glorvina -LRB- for she was attending a sick servant -RRB- threw a gloom over our little circle . 
The Prince , who seemed highly gratified by this avowal , shook me heartily by the hand , apparently flattered by his triumph ; and at that moment Glorvina entered . 
`` I should much rather witness the amnesty than the breach , '' returned she smiling . 
I know of old , '' cried Glorvina , `` that you and my father are natural allies on that point of contention ; and , I must confess , it was ungenerous in both , to oppose your united strength against Mr. Mortimer 's single force '' `` What , then , '' said the Prince , good humouredly , `` I suppose you would have deserted your national standard , and have joined Mr. Mortimer , merely from motives of compassion . '' 
`` Not so , my dear Sir , '' said Glorvina , faintly blushing , `` but I should have endeavoured to have compromised between you . 
This involuntary and impassioned exclamation extorted from the Prince a smile of gratified parental pride , and overwhelmed Glorvina with confusion . 
She could , I believe , have spared it before her father , and received it with a bow and a blush . 
Shortly after she left the room . 
`` All this , '' continued Glorvina , `` is ridiculous , nay it is worse , for it is highly dangerous and fatal to the community at large . 
The priest was absent ; and Glorvina , who sat at her little wheel by her father 's side , snapped her thread , and drooped her head close to her work , until I casually observed , that I had already passed above three weeks at the castle -- then she shook back the golden tresses from her brow , and raised her eyes to mine with a look that seemed to say , `` can that be possible ! '' 
Glorvina , on whose arm he was leaning , did not follow his example -- she simply wished me `` a pleasant journey . '' 
I have just been at my window , and never beheld so gloomy a night -- not a star twinkles through the massy clouds that are driven impetuously along by the sudden gusts of a rising storm -- not a ray of light partially dissipates the profound obscurity , save what falls on a fragment of an opposite tower , and seems to issue from the window of a closet which joins the apartment of Glorvina . 
If I should have any share in the vigils of Glorvina !!! 
I rode twice round that wing of the castle where Glorvina sleeps : the curtain of her bed-room casement was closely drawn ; but , as I passed by it the second time , I thought I perceived a shadowy form at the window of the adjoining casement . 
As to Glorvina , an aptitude to learn languages is , you know , peculiar to her country ; but in her it is a decided and striking talent : even her Italian is , `` la langua Toscana , nel ' bocca Romana ; '' and her English , grammatically correct and elegantly pure , is spoken with an accent that could never denote her country . 
What if this Glorvina has an evil eye , and has overlooked me ? 
A thousand times I think I hear the tones of her voice and harp . 
Does she feel my absence at the accustomed hour of tuition , the fire-side circle in the Vengolf , the twilight conversation , the noon-tide ramble ? 
-- Has my presence become a want to her ? 
One day I caught her weeping over a pet robin , which died on her bosom . 
She smiled , and endeavoured to hide her tears . 
`` This is very silly , I know , '' said she , `` but one must feel even the loss of a bird , that has been the companion of one 's solitude ! '' 
To day I flung by my book , in down-right deficiency of comprehension to understand a word in it , though it was a simple case in the Reports of -- and so , in the most nonchalante mood possible , I mounted my rosinante , and throwing the bridle over her neck , said , `` please thyself ; '' when it was her pious pleasure to tread on consecrated ground : in short , after a ride of half an hour , I found myself within a few paces of the parish mass-house , and recollected that it was the Sabbath day ; so that you see my mare reproved me , though in an oblique manner , with little less gravity than the ass of Balaam did his obstinate rider . 
It is impossible to mistake the figure of Glorvina , when its graces are called forth by motion . 
Glorvina , however , who , malhereusement , was not reared in France , only offered me her hand , which I had not the courage to raise to my unworthy lip , although the cordial cead mille a falta of her country revelled in her shining eyes , and her effulgent countenance was lit up with an unusual blaze of animation . 
The late insufferable reserve of Glorvina has given way to the most bewitching -LRB- I had almost said tender -RRB- softness of manner . 
` But , '' said Glorvina , `` the first of May was not the only festival held sacred by the Irish to their tutelar deity : on the 24th of June they sacrificed to the Sun , to propitiate his influence in bringing the fruit to perfection ; and to this day those lingering remains of heathen rites are performed with something of their ancient forms . 
`` For my part , '' said Glorvina , `` I love all those old ceremonies which force us to be periodically happy , and look forward with no little impatience to the gay-hearted pleasures which to-morrow will bring in its train . '' 
In a word , it is a spot sacred to the wanderings of Glorvina . 
Glorvina did not shake them off , but imbibed the liquid fragrance with her lip ; -- then held the flower to me ! '' 
She smiled , and I quaffed off the fairy nectar , which still trembled on the leaves her lip had consecrated . 
After a minute 's pause -- `` Take the rose , '' said Glorvina , endeavouring to extricate the precious hand which presented it -- `` Take it ; it is the first of the season ! 
Glorvina took it in silence , and placed it in her bosom ; and in silence we walked together towards the castle ; while our eyes , now timidly turned on each other , now suddenly averted -LRB- oh , the insidious danger of the abruptly downcast eye ! -RRB- 
Then , looking at the myrtle which reposed on the bosom of Glorvina , and the rose which I so proudly wore , he added -- `` So , I perceive you have both been sacrificing to Beal ; and , like the priests and priestesses of this country in former times , are adorned with the flowers of the season . 
`` This , Madam , '' said I to Glorvina , `` is doubtless the result of your happy taste . '' 
`` Those , however , which you now admire , '' said Glorvina , smiling , `` are no offerings of rustic gallantry ; for every hut in the country , on this morning , will bear the same fanciful decorations . 
I saw nothing of Glorvina until evening , except for a moment , when I perceived her lost over a book , -LRB- as I passed her closet window -RRB- , which , by the Morocco binding , I knew to be the Letters of the impassioned Heloise . 
it was among the books I brought hither ; and they were all precisely such books as Glorvina had not , yet should read , that she may know herself , and the latent sensibility of her soul . 
They have , of course , all been presented to her , and consist of `` La Nouvelle Heloise , '' de Rousseau -- the unrivalled `` Lettres sur la Mythologie , '' de Moustier -- the `` Paul et Virginié , '' of St. Pierre -- the Werter of Goëthe -- the Dolbreuse of Loasel , and the Attila of Chateaubriand . 
Glorvina , who walked on before the priest and me , supporting her father , as we entered the vale stole a glance at me ; and , a moment after , as I opened the little wicket through which we passed , I murmured in her ear -- La val di Rosa ! 
But , as `` breaking of ribs is no sport for ladies , '' Glorvina turned from the spectacle in disgust ; which I wished might have been prolonged , as it procured me , -LRB- who leaned over her seat -RRB- her undivided attention ; but it was too soon concluded , though without any disagreeable consequences , for neither of the combatants were hurt , though one was laid prostrate . 
The victorious wrestler was elected King of the May ; and , with `` all his blushing honours thick about him , '' came timidly forward , and laid his rural crown at the feet of Glorvina . 
The Irish jig , above every other dance , leaves most to the genius of the dancer ; and Glorvina , above all the women I have ever seen , seems most formed by Nature to excel in the art . 
Glorvina , unwearied , still continued to dance with unabated spirit , and even seemed governed by the general principle which actuates all the Irish dancers -- of not giving way to any competitor in the exertion ; for she actually outdanced her partner , who had been jigging with all his strength , while she had only been dancing with all her soul ; and when he retreated , she dropped a simple curtsey -LRB- according to the laws of jig-dancing here -RRB- to another young rustic , whose seven-leagued brogues finally prevailed , and Glorvina at last gave way , while he made a scrape to a rosy-cheeked barefooted damsel , who out-jigged him and his two successors ; and thus the chain went on . 
Glorvina , as she came panting and glowing towards me , exclaimed , `` I have done my duty for the evening ; '' and threw herself on a seat , breathless and smiling . 
And I cast a pointed look at the young rustic who had been the object of her election . 
she replied eagerly -- `` it is the custom here , and I should be sorry , for the indulgence of an overstrained delicacy , to violate any of those established rules to which , however trifling , they are devotedly attached . 
Besides , you perceive , '' she added , smiling , `` this condescension on the part of the females , who are thus ` won unsought , ' does not render the men more presumptuous . 
asked Glorvina . 
repeated Glorvina -- `` What a beautiful idea ! '' 
`` I love dancing with all my heart , '' she replied : `` when I dance I have not a care on earth -- every thing swims gayly before me ; and I feel as if swiftly borne away in a vortex of pleasurable sensation . '' 
She bowed , and said , `` I flattered too agreeably not to be listened to with pleasure , if not with faith . '' 
In short , I have had a thousand occasions to observe , that , while she receives a decided compliment with the ease of almost bon ton nonchalance , a look a broken sentence , a word , has the power of overwhelming her with confusion , or awakening all the soul of emotion in her bosom . 
Glorvina has made the plea of a head-ach these two mornings back , for playing the truant at her drawing-desk ; but the fact is , her days and nights are devoted to the sentimental sorcery of Rousseau ; and the effects of her studies are visible in her eyes . 
When we meet , their glance sinks beneath the ardor of mine , in soft confusion : her manner is no longer childishly playful , or carelessly indifferent , and sometimes a sigh , scarcely breathed , is discovered by the blush which glows on her cheek for the inadvertency of her lip . 
Does she then begin to feel she has a heart ? 
I looked out and perceived Father John in the act of flinging up another , which the hand of Glorvina -LRB- who was leaning on his arm -RRB- presented . 
And down I flew -- Glorvina laughing , sent me back for my hat , and we proceeded on our walk . 
`` This is an evening , '' said I , looking at Glorvina , `` worthy of the morning of the first of May , and we have seized it in that happy moment so exquisitely described by Collins : -- `` While now the bright hair 'd sun Sits in yon western tent , whose cloudy skirts , With brede ethereal wove , O'erhang his wavy bed . '' 
exclaimed Glorvina , with all her wildest enthusiasm -- `` never can I read -- never hear it repeated , but with emotion . 
While my very soul followed this brilliant comet to her perihelium of sentiment and imagination , I fixed my eyes on her `` mind-illumin 'd face , '' and said , `` And is expression then necessary for the conveyance of such profound , such exquisite , feeling ? 
For all the looks of blandishment which ever flung their spell from beauty 's eye , I would not have exchanged the glance which Glorvina at that moment cast on me . 
As this quotation was meant all for Glorvina , I looked earnestly at her as I repeated it . 
A crimson torrent rushed to her cheek , and convinced me that she felt the full force of a sentiment so applicable to us both . 
`` And why , '' said I , addressing her in a low voice , `` was Rousseau excluded from the sacred coalition with Ossian , Collins , your twilight harp , and winter rose ? '' 
Glorvina made no reply ; but turned full on me her `` eyes of dewy light . '' 
While we thus `` buvames à longs traits le philtre de l'amour , '' Father John gradually restored us to common-place existence , by a common-place conversation on the fineness of the weather , promising aspect of the season , & c. until the moon , as it rose sublimely above the summit of the mountain , called forth the melting tones of my Glorvina 's syren voice . 
Glorvina -LRB- as is usual with her -RRB- spent the first part of the evening in her father 's room ; thus denied her society , I endeavoured to supply its want -- its soul-felt want , by a visit to her boudoir . 
Then , even the presence of a beloved object is not more precious to the heart than the spot consecrated to her memory ; where we fancy the very air is impregnated with her respiration , every object is hallowed by her recent touch , and that all around breathes of her . 
In such a mood of mind , I ascended to Glorvina 's boudoir ; and I really believe , that had she accompanied me , I should have felt less than when alone and unseen I stole to the asylum of her pensive thoughts . 
It lay as she had described ; and , almost as I passed its threshold , I was sensibly struck by the incongruity of its appearance -- it seemed to me as if it had been partly furnished in the beginning of one century , and finished in the conclusion of another . 
Having gratified my curiosity , by examining the singular incongruities of this paradoxical boudoir , I leaned for some time against one of the windows , endeavouring to make out some defaced lines cut on its panes with a diamond , when Glorvina herself entered the room . 
As I stood concealed by the silken drapery , she did not perceive me . 
A basket of flowers hung on her arm , from which she replenished the vases , having first flung away their faded treasures . 
As she stood thus engaged , and cheering her sweet employment with a murmured song , I stole softly behind her , and my breath disturbing the ringlets which had escaped from the bondage of her bodkin , and seemed to cling to her neck for protection , she turned quickly round , and with a start , a blush , and a smile , said , `` Ah ! 
she replied , and , casting round a quick inquiring glance , hastily collected the scattered papers , and threw them into a drawer ; adding , `` I intended to have made some arrangements in this deserted little place , that you might see it in its best garb ; but had scarcely began the necessary reform this morning , when I was suddenly called to my father , and could not till this moment find leisure to return hither . '' 
While she spoke , I gazed earnestly at her . 
Glorvina moved towards the casement , threw open the sash , and laid her fresh-gathered flowers on the seat . 
Their perfume scented the room ; and a newly-fallen shower still glittered on the honeysuckle which she was endeavouring to entice through the window , round which it crept . 
The sun was setting with rather a mild than a dazzling splendor , and the landscape was richly impurpled with his departing beams , which , as they darted through the scarlet drapery of the curtain , shed warmly over the countenance and figure of Glorvina , `` Love 's proper hue . '' 
We both remained silent , until her eye accidentally meeting mine , a more `` celestial rosy red '' invested her cheek . 
She seated herself in the window , and I drew a chair , and sat near her . 
`` It is a sweet hour , '' said Glorvina , softly sighing . 
`` It is a boudoirizing hour , '' said I. `` It is a golden one for a poetic heart , '' she added . 
`` It is thus I have felt , '' said the all-impassioned Glorvina , clasping her hands , and fixing her humid eyes on mine -- `` thus , in the dearth of all kindred feeling , have I felt . 
-- and she abruptly paused , and drooped her head on the back of my chair , over which my hand rested , and felt the soft pressure of her glowing cheek , while her balmy sigh breathed its odour on my lip . 
had not her celestial confidence , her angelic purity , sublimed every thought , restrained every wish -- at that moment -- that too fortunate -- too dangerous moment !!! 
while I half audibly breathed on the ear of Glorvina -- `` Nor I , O first of all created beings ! 
Glorvina raised her head -- her melting eyes met mine , and her cheek rivalled the snow of that hand which was pressed with passionate ardor to my lips . 
Then her eyes were bashfully withdrawn -- she again drooped her head -- not on the chair , but on my shoulder . 
Suffice it to say , that I am now certain of at least being understood ; and that in awakening her comprehension , I have roused my own . 
You know but little of the sentiment which now pervades my whole being , and blends with every atom of my frame , if you suppose I have formerly told Glorvina I loved her , or that I appear even to suspect that I am -LRB- rapturous thought ! -RRB- 
Glorvina would not suffer this , and twined her arm round that of her foster-mother . 
I looked reproachfully at Glorvina , but her eyes were fixed on an arbutus tree , rich in blossom . 
With my own hands sufficiently engaged in effecting my descent , I held my Hesperian branch in my teeth , and had nearly reached the ground , when Glorvina playfully approached her lovely mouth to snatch the prize from mine . 
We were just in contact -- I suddenly let fall the branch -- and -- Father John appeared walking towards us ; while Glorvina , who , it seems , had perceived him before she had placed herself in the way of danger , now ran towards him , covered with blushes and malignant little smiles . 
In short , she makes me feel , in a thousand trivial instances , the truth of Epictetus 's maxim , that to bear and forbear are the powers that constitute a wise man : to forbear alone , would , in my opinion , be a sufficient test . 
I shake my head , look very wise , and appear to listen , while my eyes are riveted on Glorvina -- who , not unconscious of the ardent gaze , sweeps with a feathery touch the chords of her harp , or plies her fairy wheel with double vigilance . 
Meantime , however , I am making a rapid progress in the Irish language , and well I may ; for , besides that I now listen to the language of Ossian with the same respect a Hindoo would to the Shanscrit of the Bramins , the Prince , the priest , and even Glorvina , contribute their exertions to my progress . 
-- `` Glorvina , '' said he , seeing me hesitate , `` go through the verb . '' 
Glorvina had it at her fingers ' ends ; and in her eyes swam a thousand delicious comments on the text she was expounding . 
The Prince , who is as unsuspicious as an infant , would have us repeat it together , that I might catch the pronunciation from her lip ! 
`` I love , '' faintly articulated Glorvina . 
I observe he goes more frequently to post than usual ; and one morning I perceived Glorvina eagerly watching his return from the summit of a rock . 
Her father may have some correspondence on business -- she can have none . 
She is perpetually awakening ardor by restraint , and stealing enjoyment from privation . 
She still persists in bringing the priest with her to the drawing-desk ; but it is evident she does not the less enjoy that casual absence which leaves us sometimes alone ; and I am now become such an epicure in sentiment , that I scarcely regret the restraint the presence of the priest imposes ; since it gives a keener zest to the transient minutes of felicity his absence bestows -- even though they are enjoyed in silent confusion ; for nothing can be more seducing than her looks , nothing can be more dignified than her manners . 
If , when we are alone , I even offer to take her hand , she grows pale , and shrinks from my touch . 
-- Yet I regret not that careless confidence which once prompted the innocent request , that I would guide her hand to draw a perpendicular line . 
At last , therefore , I summoned up resolution to plead my former excuses to the Prince for my absence ; who insisted on my immediate return -- which I promised should be in a day or two ; while the eyes of Glorvina echoed her father 's commands , and mine looked implicit obedience . 
The evening of my arrival I answered my father 's letters -- one from our pleasant but libertine friend D -- n -- read over yours three times -- went to bed -- dreamed of Glorvina -- and set off for Inismore the next morning . 
Under them was written , in Glorvina 's hand , `` Prone to the earth we bow 'd our pallid flow ` rs -- And caught the drops divine , the purple dyes Tinging the lustre of our native hues . '' 
how quickly my bounding heart told me who was that he , whose vital drops had stained these treasured blossoms , thus , `` tinging the lustre of their native hues '' -- while the sweetest association of ideas convinced me that these were the identical flowers which Glorvina had hallowed with a tear , as she watched by the couch of him with whose blood they were polluted . 
While I pressed this sweet testimony of a pure and lively tenderness to my lips , she entered . 
At sight of me , pleasurable surprise invested every feature ; and the most innocent joy lit up her countenance , as she sprang forward and offered me her hand . 
Glorvina , with the hand which was disengaged , covered her blushing face , and would have fled ; but the look which preceded this natural motion discovered the wounded feelings of a tender but proud heart . 
I felt the indelicacy of my conduct , and , still clasping her struggling hand , exclaimed -- `` Forgive , forgive , the vain triumph of a being intoxicated by your pity -- transported by your condescension . '' 
repeated Glorvina , in an accent tenderly reproachful , yet accompanied by a look proudly indignant -- '' Triumph ! '' 
How I cursed the coxcomical expression in my heart , while I fell at her feet , and , kissing the hem of her robe , without daring to touch the hand I had relinquished , said , `` Does this look like triumph , Glorvina ? '' 
Glorvina turned towards me a face in which all the witcheries of her sex were blended -- playful fondness , affected anger , animated tenderness , and soul-dissolving languishment . 
she should not have looked thus , or I should have been more or less than man . 
With a glance of undeniable supplication , she released herself from that glowing fold which could have pressed her for ever to a heart where she must for ever reign unrivalled . 
I saw she wished I should think her very angry , and another pardon was to be solicited , for the transient indulgence of that passionate impulse her own seducing looks had called into existence . 
The pardon , after some little pouting playfulness , was granted , and I was suffered to lead her to that gothic sofa where our first tête-à-tête had taken place ; here , partly by artifice , partly by entreaty , I drew from her the little history of the treasured snow-drops , and read in her eloquent eyes more than her bashful lips will ever dare to express . 
I had the good fortune to touch her heart at cross-purposes , and completely vanquished her affections by a romping match in the morning ; and so it seems the fair susceptible has pined in thought ever since , but not `` let concealment prey on her damask cheek , '' for she told her love to an old maiden aunt , who told it to another confidential friend , until the whole neighbourhood was full of the tale of the victim of constancy and the cruel deceiver . 
you will say , like other lovers , you now see the moral as well as the natural world through a prism ; but would this unity of pleasure and virtue be found in the wilds of Inismore , if Glorvina were no longer there ? 
My life passes away here in a species of delectability to which I can give no name ; mean time , through the veil of delicate reserve which the pure suggestions of the purest nature have flung over the manners of my sweet Glorvina , a thousand little tendernesses unconsciously appear . 
Her amiable preceptor clings to me with a parent 's fondness ; and her father 's increasing partiality for his hereditary enemy is visible in a thousand instances ; while neither of these excellent but inexperienced men suspect the secret intelligence which exists between the younger tutor and his lovely pupil . 
With me it is a delightful dream , from which I dread to be awakened , yet feel that it is but a dream ; while she , bewildered , amazed , at those vague emotions which throb impetuously in her unpractised heart , resigns herself unconsciously to the sweetest of all deliriums , and makes no effort to dissolve the vision ! 
If , in the refined epicurism of my heart , I carelessly speak of my departure for England in the decline of summer , Glorvina changes colour ; the sainted countenance of Father John loses its wonted smile of placidity ; and the Prince replies by some peevish observation on the solitude of their lives , and the want of attraction at Inismore to detain a man of the world in its domestic circle . 
I have observed too , that the hall is frequently crowded with importunate people , whom the priest seems endeavouring to pacify in Irish ; and twice , as I passed the Prince 's room last week , an ill-looking fellow appeared at the door , whom Glorvina was shewing out . 
Her eyes were moist with tears ; and at sight of me she deeply coloured , and hastily withdrew . 
I have already mentioned to you the incongruities which so forcibly struck me in Glorvina 's boudoir . 
I read through the passage , and was throwing the book by when some writing on the paper mark caught my eye ; supposing it to be Glorvina 's , I endeavoured to decipher the lines , and read as follows : `` Professions , my lovely friend , are for the world . 
This was all I could make out -- and this I read a hundred times -- the handwriting was a man 's -- but it was not the priest 's -- it could not be her father 's . 
I was still engaged in gazing on the sibyl leaf when I heard Glorvina approach . 
I never was deceived in her little feet 's light bound , for she seldom walks ; so hastily replacing the book I appeared deeply engaged in looking over a fine Atlas that lay open on the table . 
She seemed surprised at my appearance , so much indeed , that I felt the necessity of apologizing for my intrusion . 
Without noticing my innuendo , she only bowed her head , and asked me with a smile , `` what favourite spot on the globe I was tracing with such earnestness when her entrance had interrupted my geographic pursuits . 
With an air of bewitching insinuation she placed her hand on my shoulder , and , with a faint blush and a little smile , shook her head , and looked up in my face with a glance half incredulous -- half tender . 
Glorvina started as I spoke ; I thought changed colour , while at intervals she repeated , `` Strange ! 
I eagerly repeated , but she affected not to hear me , and appeared busily engaged in selecting for herself a bouquet from the flowers which filled one of those vases I before noticed to you . 
-- `` No , '' said she , I thought confusedly ; `` I believe it came from Italy . '' 
`` It was a present from a friend of my father 's , '' she replied , colouring , `` to me ! '' 
The bell at that moment rang for breakfast , away she flew , apparently pleased to be released from my importunities . 
and who can this friend be , whose delicacy of judgment so nicely adapts the gifts to the taste of her on whom they are lavished ! 
Yet after all , these presents may have come from one of these relatives ; if so , as Glorvina has no recollection of either , how I should curse that jealous temper which has purchased for me some moments of torturing doubts ! 
But it is the silence of Glorvina on the subject of this generous friend that distracts me ; if , after all -- oh ! 
I have endeavoured to sound the priest on the subject , and affected to admire the vases ; repeating the same questions with which I had teazed Glorvina ; but he too carelessly replied , `` they were given her by a friend of her father 's . '' 
The poor man was overjoyed at the offer , while Glorvina betrayed neither surprise nor regret at my intention , but looked first at her father , and then at me , with kindness and gratitude . 
Were my heart more at ease , were my confidence in the affections of Glorvina something stronger , I should greatly relish this little tour , but as it is , when I found every thing arranged for my departure without the concurrence of my own wishes , I could not check my pettishness , and for want of some other mode of venting it , I endeavoured to ridicule a work on the subject of ancient Irish history which the priest was , reading aloud , while Glorvina worked , and I was trifling with my pencil . 
During the whole of the evening , Glorvina maintained an uninterrupted silence ; she appeared lost in thought , and unmindful of our conversation , while her eyes , sometimes turned on me , but oftener on her father , seemed humid with a tear , as she contemplated his lately much-altered appearance . 
Adieu -- I endeavour to write and think on every subject but that nearest my heart , yet there Glorvina and her mysterious friend still awaken the throb of jealous doubt and anxious solicitude . 
For my part , I should indeed wish the hours annihilated till I again behold Glorvina ; but for the space which divides us , it were requisite I should be fifty miles from her , to be more entirely with her , to appreciate the full value of her society , and to learn the nature of those wants my heart must ever feel when separated from her . 
Glorvina despond ! 
When we arose to depart , Glorvina said , `` If you will lead your horses , I will walk to the draw-bridge with you . '' 
Delighted at the proposal , we ordered our horses to follow us ; and with an arm of Glorvina drawn through either of ours , we left the castle . 
said Glorvina fervently . 
I repeated ; and , looking at Glorvina , read all the daughter in her eyes . 
said Glorvina archly , `` I dare say that , like St. Paul , he will ` count it all joy to fall into divers temptations . 
said Glorvina smiling , while the priest remained a little behind us talking to a peasant . 
At that moment the priest joined us ; and , though Glorvina was silent , I felt the pressure of her arm more heavily on mine , and saw her pass the draw-bridge without a recollection on her part that it was to have been the boundary of her walk . 
said Glorvina , `` some one is going to ` that bourne from whence no traveller returns . 
In one of the pauses of this dreadful death-chorus , I expressed to Glorvina my surprise at the multitude which attended the funeral of a peasant , while we stood on a bank as they passed us . 
`` This will surprise you , '' said Glorvina ; `` but it is wise to comply with those prejudices which we can not vanquish . 
While he spoke , we entered the church-yard , and I expressed my surprise to Glorvina , who seemed wrapt in solemn meditation , at the singular appearance of this rustic little cemetery , where , instead of the monumental marble , `` The storied urn , or animated bust , '' an osier , twisted into the form of a cross , wreathed with faded foliage , and garlands made of the pliant sally twined with flowers , alone distinguished the `` narrow house '' where `` The rude forefathers of the hamlet slept . '' 
Without answering , she led me gently forward towards a garland which seemed newly planted . 
said Glorvina , in a voice whose affecting tone sank to my heart , while her eyes , raised to heaven , were suffused with tears . 
The filial mourner now arose and departed , and we approached the simple shrine of her sorrowing devotion . 
Glorvina took from it a sprig of rosemary -- its leaves were humid ! 
`` It is not all dew , '' said Glorvina with a sad smile , while her own tears fell on it , and she presented it to me . 
`` Then you think me worthy of sharing in these divine feelings , '' I exclaimed , as I kissed off the sacred drops ; while I was now confirmed in the belief that the tenderness , the sufferings , and declining health , of her father rendered him at that moment the sole object of her solicitude and affection . 
Observing her emotion increase , as she stood near the spot sacred to filial grief , I endeavoured to draw away her attention by remarking , that almost every tomb had now a votarist . 
`` It is a strong instance , '' said Glorvina , `` of the sensibility of the Irish , that they repair at intervals to the tombs of their deceased friends to drop a tender tear , or heave a heart-breathed sigh , to the memory of those so lamented in death , so dear to them in life . 
''' `` Alone , '' I repeated , and , pressing her hand to my heart , inarticulately added , `` O Glorvina , did the pulses which now throb against each other throb in unison , you would understand , that even love is a cold inadequate term for the sentiments you have inspired in a soul , which would claim a closer kindred to yours than even parental affinity can assert ; if -LRB- though but by a glance -RRB- yours would design to acknowledge the sacred union . '' 
The hand of Glorvina was pressed to my heart , her head almost touched my shoulders , her lips almost effused their balmy sighs on mine . 
Glorvina was the first to recover presence of mind ; she released her hand , which was still pressed to my heart , and , covered with blushes , advanced to Father John . 
I followed , and found her with her arm entwined in his , while those eyes from whose glance my soul had lately quaffed the essence of life 's richest bliss , were now studiously turned from me in love 's own downcast bashfulness . 
The good Father Director now took my arm ; and we were leaving this -LRB- to me -RRB- interesting spot , when the filial mourner , who had first drawn us from his side , approached the priest , and , taking out a few shillings from the corner of her handkerchief , offered them to him , and spoke a few words in Irish ; the priest returned her an answer and her money at the same time : she curtseyed low , and departed in silent and tearful emotion . 
Father John followed the woman , and advanced to the old man , while I , turning towards Glorvina , demanded an explanation of this extraordinary scene . 
Glorvina approached something closer towards me , and in a few words convinced me that on the subject of religion , as upon every other , her strong mind discovered itself to be an emanation of that divine intelligence , which her pure soul worships ` in spirit and in truth , ' `` The bright effluence of bright essence uncreate . '' 
When she observed my surprise and delight , she added , `` believe me , my dear friend , the age , in which religious error held her empire undisputed , is gone by . 
The priest now returned to us , and was followed by the multitude , who crowded round this venerable and adored pastor : some to obtain his benediction for themselves , others his prayers for their friends , and all his advice or notice ; while Glorvina , whom they had not at first perceived , stood like an idol in the midst of them , receiving that adoration which the admiing gaze of some , and the adulatory exclamations of others , offered to her virtues and her charms . 
While those , personally known to her , she addressed with her usual winning sweetness in their native language , I am sure that there was not an individual among this crowd of ardent and affectionate people who would not have risked his life ` to avenge a look that threatened her with danger . 
Our horses now coming up to the gate of the cemetery , we insisted on walking back as far as the draw-bridge with Glorvina . 
When we reached it , the priest saluted her cheek with paternal freedom , and gave her his blessing . 
When we had parted with Glorvina , and caught a last view of her receding figure , we mounted our horses , and proceeded a considerable way in silence . 
Already weary of a conversation in which my heart took little interest , I now suffered it to die away ; and while father John began a parley with a traveller who socially joined us , I gave up my whole soul to love and to Glorvina . 
For my part , since I have known Glorvina , I shall never again endure that perpetuity of air , look , and address , which those who mistake formality for good-breeding are so apt to assume . 
it was requisite I should mingle , converse , with other women to justly appreciate all I possess in the society of Glorvina ; for surely she is more , or every other woman is less , than mortal ! 
This is the first time I ever heard my soi disant prince mentioned without his title ; but I am sure I should never endure to hear my Glorvina called Miss O'Melville . 
But though the women danced with considerable grace and spirit , they did not , like Glorvina , `` Send the soul upon a jig to heav ` n. '' The dance was succeeded by a good supper ; the supper by a cheerful song , and every one seemed unwilling to be the first to break up a social compact over which the spirit of harmony presided . 
So great was my veneration for this `` bard of other times , '' that I felt as if it would have been an indelicacy to have offered him any pecuniary reward for the exertions of his tuneful talent ; I therefore made my little offering to his wife , having previously , while he was reciting his `` unvarnished tale , '' taken a sketch of his most singularly interesting and striking figure , as a present for Glorvina on my return to Inismore . 
Whenever there is a revel of the feelings , a joy of the imagination , or a delicate fruition of a refined and touching sentiment , how my soul misses her ! 
I find it impossible to make even the amiable and intelligent priest enter into the nature of my feelings ; but how naturally , in the overflowing of my heart , do I turn towards her , yet turn in vain , or find her image only in my enamoured soul , which is full of her . 
how much do I owe her . 
What a vigorous spring has she opened in the wintry waste of a desolated mind ! 
It seems as though a seal had been fixed upon every bliss of the senses and the heart , which her breath alone could dissolve ; that all was gloom and chaos until she said , `` let there be light ! '' 
they are Ossian and Glorvina : it is for him to describe , for her to feel , the renovating charms of this interesting moment . 
's had lost nothing of that cordiality which distinguished our first ; but neither the cheerful kindness of the parents , nor the blandishments of the charming daughters , could allay that burning impatience which fired my bosom to return to Glorvina , after the tedious absence of five long days . 
I took it up and , carelessly glancing my eye over it , discovered that it was a receipt from the Prince 's inexorable creditor , who -LRB- as father John informed me -RRB- refused to take the farm off his hands ; but what was my amazement to find that this receipt was an acknowledgment for those jewels which I had so often seen stealing their lustre from Glorvina 's charms ! 
I could have annihilated this rascally cold-hearted landlord ; I could have wept on the neck of the unfortunate Prince ; I could have fallen at the feet of Glorvina , and worshipped her as the first of the Almighty 's works ! 
The idea of so soon meeting my soul 's precious Glorvina banished ever idea less delightful . 
Already I beheld the `` air-lifted '' figure of Glorvina floating towards me . 
Already I felt her soft hands tremble in mine , and gazed on the deep suffusion of her kindling blushes , the ardent welcome of her bashful eyes , and all that dissolving and impassioned languor with which she would resign herself to the sweet abandonment of her soul 's chastened tenderness , and the fullest confidence in that adoring heart which had now unequivocally assured her of its homage and eternal fealty . 
In short , I had resolved to confess my name and rank to Glorvina , to offer her my hand , and to trust to the affection of our fond and indulgent fathers for forgiveness . 
She then informed me that Glorvina was alone in the boudoir . 
The door lay partly open ; Glorvina was seated at a table , and apparently engaged in writing a letter . 
Glorvina at the same instant raised her head from the paper , read over what she had written , and wept bitterly ; then wrote again , and again paused ; sighed , and drew a letter from her bosom , -- -LRB- yes , her bosom , -RRB- which she perused , often waving her head , and sighing deeply , and wiping away the tears that dimmed her eyes , while once a cherub smile stole on her lip , -LRB- that smile I once thought all my own ;-RRB- then , folding up the letter , she pressed it to her lips , and , consigning it to her bosom , exclaimed , `` First and best of men ! '' 
What else she murmured I could not distinguish ; but , as if the perusal of this prized letter had renovated every drooping spirit , she ceased to weep , and wrote with greater earnestness than before . 
Motionless , transfixed , I leaned for support against the frame of the door until Glorvina , having finished her letter and sealed it , arose to depart ; then I had the presence of mind to steal away , and conceal myself in a dark recess of the corridor . 
Yet , though unseen , I saw her wipe away the traces of her tears from her cheek , and pass me with a composed and almost cheerful air . 
I softly followed , and , looking down the dark abyss of the steep well stairs , which she rapidly descended , I perceived her to put her letter in the hands of the little post boy , who hurried away with it . 
I turned back to a window in the corridor , and beheld Glorvina 's little herald , mounted on his mule , riding off , while she , standing at the gate , pursued him with that impatient look so strongly indicative of her ardent character . 
When he was out of sight she withdrew , and the next minute I heard her stealing towards her father 's room . 
Unable to bear her presence , I flew to mine -- that apartment I had lately occupied with an heart so redolent of bliss -- a heart that now sank beneath the unexpected blow which crushed all its new-born hopes , and I feared annihilated for ever its sweet but short-lived felicity . 
`` O Glorvina ! '' 
Besides , Glorvina is not formed for friendship ; the moderate feelings of her burning soul are already divided in affection for her father , and grateful esteem for her tutor ; and she who , when loved , must be loved to madness , will scarcely feel less passion than she inspires . '' 
I turned savagely round -- it was Glorvina ! 
Yet it was no longer the almost-sacred person of the once all-innocent , all-ingenuous , Glorvina they encircled ; but still they twined round the loveliest form , the most charming , the most dangerous , of all human beings . 
-- With what exquisite modesty she faintly endeavoured to extricate herself from my embrace ; yet with what willing weakness , which seemed to triumph in its own debility , she panted on my bosom , wearied by the exertion which vainly sought her release . 
at that moment the world was forgotten -- the whole universe was Glorvina ! 
My soul 's eternal welfare was not more precious at that moment than Glorvina ! 
Glorvina , with an effort , flung herself from me . 
Virtue , indignant yet merciful , forgiving while it arraigned , beamed in her eyes . 
I fell at her feet ; I pressed her hand to my throbbing temples and burning lips . 
She threw herself on a seat , and covered her face with her hands , while the tears trickled through her fingers . 
there was a time when tears from those eyes -- but now they only recalled to my recollection the last I had seen her shed . 
I started from her feet , and walked towards the window , near that couch where her watchful and charitable attention first awakened the germ of gratitude and love which has since blown into such full , such fatal , existence . 
Glorvina arose : with an air tenderly compassionate , yet reproachful , she advanced , and took one of my hands . 
`` My dear friend , '' she exclaimed , `` what is the matter ? 
`` And therefore , Mortimer , is it nothing to Glorvina , '' she softly replied ; and , with one of those natural motions so incidental to the simplicity of her manners , she threw her hand on my shoulder , and , leaning her head on it , raised her eloquent , her tearful , eyes to mine . 
while the bright drops hung upon her cheek 's faded rose , with what difficulty I restrained the impulse that tempted me to gather them with my lips ; while she , like a ministering angel , again took my hand , and , applying her fingers to my wrist , said with a sad smile , `` You know I am a skilful little doctress . '' 
The feelings I experienced when those lovely fingers first applied their pressure to my arm rushed on my recollection : her touch had lost nothing of its electric power : my emotions at that moment were indescribable . 
she exclaimed . 
Glad , for the present , of any pretext to conceal the nature of my real disorder , I confessed I was indeed ill , -LRB- and , in fact , I was physically as well as morally so ; for my last day 's journey brought on that nervous head-ache I have suffered so much from ;-RRB- while she , all tender solicitude and compassion , flew to prepare me a composing-draught . 
Thus a thousand times have I seen her act by the wretches who were first introduced to her notice through the medium of that reputation which her distinguished humanity had obtained for her among the diseased and the unfortunate . 
She said she had brought me a composing-draught from the lady Glorvina , who had kissed the cup , after the old Irish fashion , To this ancient and general custom Gold . 
and bade me drink it for her sake . 
`` Then I pledge her , '' said I , `` with the same truth she did me ; '' and I eagerly quaffed off the nectar her hand had prepared . 
While I was thinking how I should put my jesuitical scheme into execution , and she was talking as usual I know not what , the beautiful `` Breviare du Sentiment `` caught my eye lying on the ground : Glorvina must have dropped it on her first entrance . 
I desired the nurse to bring it to me , who blessed her stars , and wondered how her child could be so careless -- a thing too she valued so much . 
The stranger was shewn into an apartment adjoining the Prince 's , where Glorvina received him , and , having remained for some time with him , retired to her father 's room ; and again , after a conference of some minutes , returned to the stranger , whom she conducted to the Prince 's bedside . 
The following summer he repeated his visit ; accompanied by those presents which decorate Glorvina 's boudoir , except the carpet and vases , which were brought by a person who disappeared as soon as he had left them . 
During both these visits , he gave up his time chiefly to Glorvina ; reading to her , listening to her music , and walking with her early and late , but never without the priest or the nurse , and seldom during the day . 
Being pursued nearly to the gates of the castle of Inismore , he had thrown himself on the mercy of the Prince , who , with that romantic sense of honour which distinguishes his chivalrous character , had not violated the trust thus forced on him , but granted an asylum to the unfortunate refugee ; who , by the most prepossessing manners and eminent endowments , had dazzled the fancy and won the hearts of this unsuspecting and credulous family ; while over the minds of Glorvina and her father he had obtained a boundless influence . 
that the virgin rose of Glorvina 's affection had already shed its sweetness on a former happier lover ; that the partiality I had flattered myself in having awakened was either the result of natural intuitive coquetry , or , in the long absence of her heart 's first object , a transient beam of that fire which , once illumined , is so difficult to extinguish , and which was nourished by my resemblance to him who had first fanned it into life . 
Glorvina , false , deceptive ! 
were the immaculate spirit of Truth embodied in a human form , it could not wear upon its radiant brow a brighter , stronger trace of purity inviolable , and holy innocence , than shines in the seraph countenance of Glorvina ! 
Besides , she never said she loved me . 
O Glorvina ! 
`` He then endeavoured to persuade me to go down with him , and take some refreshment , for I had tasted nothing all day , save Glorvina 's draught ; but , finding me averse to the proposal , he sat with me till he was sent for to the Prince 's room . 
As soon as he was gone , with that restlessness of body which ever accompanies a wretched mind , I wandered through the deserted rooms of this vast and ruinous edifice , but saw nothing of Glorvina . 
I had not , however , strayed far from the ruins , when I perceived the little post-boy galloping his foaming mule over the drawbridge , and the next moment saw Glorvina gliding beneath the colonade -LRB- that leads to the chapel -RRB- to meet him . 
I retreated behind a fragment of the ruins , and observed her take a letter from his hand with an eager and impatient air : when she had looked at the seal , she pressed it to her lips ; then , by the faint beams of the retreating light , she opened this welcome packet , and , putting an inclosed letter in her bosom , endeavoured to read the envelope ; but , scarcely had her eye glanced over it , than it fell to the earth , while she , covering her face with her hands , seemed to lean against the broken pillar near which she stood for support . 
She again took the paper , and , still holding it open in her hand , with a slow step and thoughtful air returned to the castle ; while I flew to the stables , under pretence of enquiring from the post-boy if there were any letters for me . 
The lad said there was but one , and that , the post-master had told him , was an English one for the lady Glorvina . 
This letter then , though it could not have been an answer to that I had seen her writing , was doubtless from the mysterious friend , whose friendship , `` like gold , though not sonorous , was indestructible . '' 
Finally resolved to act with the cool determination of a rational being , not the wild impetuosity of a maniac , I put off my departure till the following morning , when I could formally take leave of the Prince , the priest , and even Glorvina herself , in the presence of her father . 
Thus firm and decided , I returned to the castle , and mechanically walked towards that vast apartment where I had first seen her at her harp , soothing the sorrows of parental affliction ; but now it was gloomy and unoccupied ; a single taper burnt on a black marble slab before a large folio , in which I suppose the priest had been looking ; the silent harp of Glorvina stood in its usual place . 
I saw the light trembling in the casement of Glorvina long after midnight . 
It was from Glorvina , and only a simple inquiry after my health , couched in terms of common-place courtesy . 
I dared not mention Glorvina 's name , but the man informed me she was then sitting by her father 's bed-side , and had not attended matins . 
While I walked from room to room with a book in my hand , I saw no one but the servants , who looked full of mystery ; save once , when , as I stood at the top of the corridor , I perceived Glorvina leave her father 's room ; she held her handkerchief to her eyes , and passed on to her own apartment . 
said I. `` No , '' he returned , `` for he had seen the lady Glorvina enter at the same time with Father John . '' 
I did not wish to trust the servant with this open billet , I did not wish the Prince to get it till I was gone ; in a word , though I was resolved to leave the castle that evening , yet I did not wish to go , till , for the last time , I had seen Glorvina . 
I heard a footstep approach -- I became motionless ; the door opened , and the priest appeared leading in Glorvina . 
But Glorvina spoke not ; and I answered with vehemence , that I should have been off long since ; and my determination is now fixed . 
Glorvina 's head reposed on his shoulder ; her face was enveloped in her veil ; he looked on her with tenderness and compassion , and I repeated a `` last farewell ! '' 
Glorvina , you will at least then say , `` Farewell . 
In the universe I saw nothing but Glorvina ; such as I had once believed her , my own , my loving and beloved , Glorvina ; my tender friend , and impassioned mistress . 
I fell at her feet ; I seized her hands , and pressed them to my burning lips . 
I heard her stifled sobs ; her tears of soft compassion fell upon my cheek ; I thought them tears of love , and drew her to my breast ; but the priest held her in one arm , while with the other he endeavoured to raise me , exclaiming in violent emotion . 
The heart of Glorvina throbbed to mine , our tears flowed together , our sighs mingled . 
I still clung to the drapery of Glorvina 's robe ; he forced me from her , and she sunk on a couch . 
I burst from his grasp , and flew to Glorvina . 
I snatched her to my breast , and wildly cried `` Glorvina , is this then a last farewell ? 
`` Then , '' said I , pressing her more closely to my heart , `` farewell for ever ! '' 
I mounted the horse that waited for me at the door , and galloped off ; but with the darkness of the night I returned , and all night I wandered about the environs of Inismore ; to the last I watched the light of Glorvina 's window . 
When it was extinguished , it seemed as though I parted from her again . 
The unfortunate lover of Glorvina fancied he gave a reluctant compliance to the proposal which coincided but too-closely with the secret desires of his soul . 
The rising moon , as it shone through the broken casements , flung round a dim religious light , and threw its quivering rays on that spot where he had first beheld Glorvina and her father engaged in the interesting ceremonies of their religion . 
And to think that even at that moment he breathed the air that she respired , and was within a few paces of the spot she inhabited ! 
-- Overcome by the conviction , he resigned himself to the delirium which involved his heart and senses ; and , governed by the overpowering impulse of the moment , he proceeded along that colonade through which he had distantly followed her and the Prince on the night of his first arrival at the castle . 
On every mourning breeze he thought the sound of Glorvina 's voice was borne ; and , starting at the fall of every leaf , he almost expected to meet at each step the form of father John , if not that of his faithless mistress ; but the idea of her lover occurred not . 
His first glance was directed towards the casement of Glorvina 's room , but there nor in any other did the least glimmering of light appear . 
While he stood rapt in horror and amazement , he heard the sound of Glorvina 's harp , borne on the blast which sighed at intervals along the passage . 
To satisfy at once his insupportable doubts , he flew to that room where the harp of Glorvina always stood : like the rest it was unoccupied , and dimly lit up by the moon beams . 
The harp of Glorvina , and the couch on which he had first sat by her , were the only articles , it contained : the , former was still breathing its wild melody when he entered , but he perceived the melancholy vibration was produced by the sea-breeze -LRB- admitted by the open casement -RRB- which swept at intervals along its strings . 
Mr. M -- followed , and caught her by the arm : she redoubled her cries -- it was with difficulty he could pacify her -- while , as his heart fluttered on his lips , he could only say `` The lady Glorvina ! 
The jailor retired ; and Mr. M -- , shuddering as he contemplated the close and gloomy little apartment , its sorry furniture , and grated windows , where the suffering Glorvina had been imprisoned with her father , briefly related to the nurse that , having learnt the misfortunes of the Prince , he had followed him to the prison , in the hope of being able to give him some assistance , if not to effect his liberation . 
She said that she believed they had looked for assistance from the concealed friend until the last moment , when the Prince , unable to struggle any longer , left his sick bed for the prison of -- ; that Glorvina had supported her father during their melancholy journey in her arms , without suffering even a tear , much less a complaint , to escape her ; that she had supported his spirits and her own as though she were more than human , until the physician who attended the Prince gave him over ; that then her distraction -LRB- when out of the presence of her father -RRB- knew no bounds ; and that once they feared her senses were touched ; and that , at the moment when they were all reduced to despair , the mysterious friend had arrived , paid the debt for which the Prince was confined , and had carried them off the evening before , by a more tedious but less rugged road than that she supposed Mr. M -- had taken , whence he had probably missed them . 
`` For all this , '' continued the old woman weeping , `` my child will never be happy : she is sacrificing herself for her father , and he will not live to enjoy the benefit of it . 
The gentleman is indeed good and comely to look at ; and his being old enough to be her father matters nothing ; but then love is not to be commanded though duty may . '' 
His recent sufferings and suspicions , and the present distracted state of his mind , his tears , his entreaties , his wildly energetic supplications , his wretched but interesting appearance , and , above all , the adoration he professed for the object of her own tenderest affection , finally vanquished the small portion of prudence and reserve interwoven in the unguarded character of the simple and affectionate old Irishwoman , and she at last confessed , that , the day after his departure from the castle of Inismore , Glorvina was seized with a fever , in which , after the first day , she became delirious ; that during the night , as the nurse sat by her , she awakened from a deep sleep , and began to speak much of Mr. Mortimer , whom she frequently called her friend , her preceptor , and her lover ; talked wildly of her having been united to him by God in the vale of Inismore , and drew from her bosom a sprig of withered myrtle which , she said , had been a bridal gift from her beloved , and that she often pressed it to her lips and smiled , and began to sing an air which , she said , was dear to him ; until at last she burst into tears , and wept herself to sleep again . 
`` When she recovered , '' continued the nurse , `` which , owing to her youth and fine constitution , she did in a few days , I mentioned to her some of those sayings , at which she changed colour , and begged that as I valued her happiness I would bury all I had heard in my own breast ; and above all bid me not mention your name , as it was now her duty to forget you ; indeed it was only last night that I heard her consent to become the wife of the good gentleman ; but poor child it is all one , for she will die of a broken heart . 
I see plainly she will not long survive her father , nor will ever love any but you ! '' 
His sole object was to obtain an interview with Glorvina , and on the result of that interview to form his future determinations . 
The man , with a countenance , full of importance , was going to address him , but he sprang eagerly forward , and was in a moment immersed in the ruins of the castle ; intending to pass through the chapel as the speediest and most private way , and to make his arrival first known to father John , to declare to the good priest his real name and rank , his passion for Glorvina , and to receive his destiny from her lips only . 
Glorvina then appeared wrapt in a long veil , and supported on the arm of a stranger , whose figure and air was lofty and noble , but whose face was concealed by the recumbent attitude of his head , which drooped towards that of his apparently feeble companion , as if in the act of addressing her . 
The priest stood at the sacred table -- Glorvina and her companions knelt at its steps . 
A convulsive shriek burst from the lips of Glorvina . 
The priest was the first to dissolve the spell , and to recover a comparative presence of mind ; he descended from the altar , and endeavoured to raise and extricate the lifeless Glorvina from the arms of her unhappy lover , but the effort was vain . 
Clasping her to his heart closer than ever , the almost frantic M. exclaimed , `` She is mine ! 
Glorvina , released from the nerveless clasp of her lover , fell on her knees between the father and the son , alternately fixing her wild regards on both ; then , suddenly turning them on the now apparently expiring friend , she sprang forward , and , throwing her arms round his neck , frantically cried , `` It is my father they will destroy ! '' 
The Prince pressed her to his heart , and looked round , with a ghastly and enquiring glance , for the explanation of that mystery no one had the power to unravel , and by which all seemed overwhelmed . 
Glorvina , in the arms of the attendants , was conveyed lifeless to the castle . 
At that moment Glorvina appeared ; she had rushed from the arms of her attendants ; her strength was resistless , for it was the energy of madness ; her senses were fled ! 
Regardless of the prostrate throng , she glided up the hall to the bier , and , gazing earnestly on her father , smiled sadly , and waved her hand ; then , kissing his cheek , she threw her veil over his face , and putting her finger on her lip , as if to impose silence , softly exclaimed , `` Hush ! 
and then kneeling beside him , in a voice scarcely human , she breathed out a soul-rending air she had been accustomed to sing to her father from her earliest infancy . 
The silence of compassion , of horror , which breathed around , was alone interrupted by her song of grief , while no eye save her 's was dry . 
Abruptly breaking off her plaintive strain , she drew the veil from her father 's face , and suddenly averting her gaze from his livid features , it wandered from the Earl of M. to his son ; while with a piercing shriek she exclaimed , -- `` Which of you murdered my father ? '' 
Then , looking tenderly on the younger M. -LRB- whose eyes not less wild than her own had followed her every motion -RRB- , she softly added , `` It was not you , my love ! '' 
and with a loud convulsive laugh she fell lifeless into the priest 's arms , who was the first possessed of the presence of mind to think of removing the still lovely maniac . 
Glorvina 's health and fine constitution were already prevailing over her disorder and acute sensibility ; her senses were gradually returning , and only appeared subject to wander , when a sense of her recent sufferings struck on her heart . 
The old nurse was the first who ventured to mention to her that her unhappy lover was in the house ; but , though she appeared struck and deeply affected by the intelligence , she never mentioned his name . 
The benevolent priest , who day and night had watched over them undertook of prepare Glorvina for the reception of Mr. M. whose life seemed to hang upon the restoration of hers . 
When she heard that he was still in the castle , and had just escaped from the jaws of death , she shuddered and changed colour ; and with a faint voice enquired for his father . 
When she learnt that he had left the castle on the night when she had last seen him , she seemed to feel much satisfaction , and said , `` What an extraordinary circumstance . 
paused , and a faint hectic coloured her pale cheek ; then added , `` unfortunate and imprudent young man ! 
inarticulately demanded Glorvina . 
She turned aside her head , and sighed heavily : then bursting into tears , flung her arms affectionately round her beloved preceptor , and cried , `` I have now no father but you -- act for me as such ! '' 
The priest pressed her to his heart , and , drawing a letter from his bosom , said , `` This is from one who pants to become your father in the strictest sense of the word . 
Glorvina , gasping for breath , caught hold of the priest 's arm , then sank back upon her seat , and covered her face with her hands . 
The priest withdrew , and in a few minutes returned , leading in the agitated invalid : then , placing the hands of the almost lifeless Glorvina in his , retired . 
Two hours had elapsed before the venerable priest again sought the two objects dearest to his heart ; he found Glorvina overwhelmed with soft emotion , her cheek covered with blushes , and her hand clasped in that of the interesting invalid , whose flushing colour and animated eyes spoke the return of health and happiness ; not indeed confirmed -- but fed by sanguine hope ; such hope as the heart of a mourning child could give to the object of her heart 's first passion , in that era of filial grief , when sorrow is mellowed by reason , and soothed by religion into a tender and not ungracious melancholy . 
When a fixed determination succeeded to some months of wavering indecision , I wrote to Glorvina , with whom I had been in habits of epistolary correspondence , distantly touching on a subject I yet considered with timidity , and faintly demanding her sanction of my wishes before I unfolded them to her father , which I assured her I would not do until I could claim her openly in my own character . 
-- It began thus : `` In those happy moments of boundless confidence , when the pupil and the child hung upon the instructive accents of the friend and the father , you have often said to me , ` I am not altogether what I seem ; I am not only grateful , but I possess a power stronger than words of convincing those to whom I owe so much of my gratitude ; and should the hour of affliction ever reach thee , Glorvina , call on me as the friend who would fly from the remotest corner of the earth to serve , to save , thee . ' 
Glorvina was at that moment weeping on my shoulder , her hands were clasped in mine , and her humid eyes beamed on me all the grateful feelings of her warm and susceptible soul . 
I gazed on her for a moment , -- she cast down her eyes , and I thought pressed my hand ; thus encouraged , I ventured to say to the Prince , `` You talk in exaggerated terms of the little service I have done you , -- would indeed it had been sufficient to embolden me to make that request which now trembles on my lips . '' 
I looked at Glorvina -- she blushed and trembled , I felt I was understood , and I added , `` Then give me a legal claim to become the protector of your daughter , and , through her , to restore you to that independence necessary for the repose of a proud and noble spirit . 
Glorvina bowed her head to receive it -- her veil fell over her face -- the index of her soul was concealed : how then could I know what passed there . 
She was silent -- she was obedient -- and I was -- deceived . 
Sensible of his situation , his tenderness , his anxiety , for his child survived every other feeling ; nor would he suffer himself to be carried to his chamber until he had bestowed her on me from the altar . 
I knew not then what were the sentiments of Glorvina . 
Entwined in the arms of her doating dying father , she seemed insensible to every emotion , to every thought but what his fate excited ; but , however gratified I might have been at the intentions of the Prince , I was decidedly averse to their prompt execution . 
