and a young girl glided to the bedside of the old man , who , taking her hand in his , the better to assure himself of her presence , said , `` Marian , is there nothing in that corner yonder -- nothing with silvery hair ? '' 
`` Nothing , '' answered Marian , `` nothing but the lamplight shining on the face of the old clock . 
Marian , do you believe the dead can come back to us again -- when we have done them a wrong -- the dead who are buried in the sea , I mean ? '' 
Marian shuddered involuntarily , and cast a timid look toward the shadowy corner , then , conquering her weakness , she answered , `` No , the dead can not come back . 
cried Marian , kissing tenderly the hand of the only parent she had ever known . 
`` And yet , Marian , '' he said , `` I have done you a wrong -- a wrong which has eaten into my very soul , and worn my life away . 
Do you hear , Marian -- faithful to my trust . 
Wait , Marian , until I have finished , '' he continued , as he saw her about to speak ; `` I know I have not long to live , and I would make amends ; but , Marian , I would rather -- oh , so much rather , you should not know the truth until I 'm dead . 
You will forgive me then more readily , wo n't you , Marian ? 
He paused for her reply , and half bewildered , Marian answered , `` I do n't know what you mean -- but if , as you say , a wrong has been done , no matter how great that wrong may be , it is freely forgiven for the sake of what you 've been to me . '' 
The sick man wound his arm lovingly around her , and bringing her nearer to him , he said , `` Bless you , Marian -- bless you for that . 
`` Yes , '' returned Marian , `` I said you were very sick and wished to see him at once . '' 
For a moment there was silence in the room ; then , removing his arm from the neck of the young girl , the old man raised himself upon his elbow and looking her steadily in the face , said , `` Marian , could you love my son Frederic ? '' 
The question was a strange one , but Marian Lindsey was accustomed to strange modes of speech in her guardian , and with a slightly heightened color she answered quietly , `` I do love him as a brother -- '' `` Yes , but I would have you love him as something nearer , '' returned her guardian . 
There was a nervous start and an increase of color in Marian 's face , for the idea , though not altogether disagreeable , was a new one to her , but she made no reply , and her guardian continued , `` I am selfish in this wish , though not wholly so . 
Promise me , Marian , that you will be his wife very soon after I am dead , and before all Kentucky is talking of my sin . 
asked Marian , timidly ; and her guardian replied , `` He has known you but little of late , but when he sees you here at home , and learns how gentle and good you are , he can not help loving you as you deserve . '' 
`` Yes he can , '' answered Marian with childish simplicity . 
`` No man as handsome as Frederic ever loved a girl with an ugly face , and I heard him tell Will Gordon , when he spent a vacation here , that I was a nice little girl , but altogether too freckled , too red-headed , and scrawney , ever to make a handsome woman , '' and Marian 's voice trembled slightly as she recalled a speech which had wrung from her many tears . 
But this could not be ; Frederick must marry Marian , for in no other way could the name of Raymond be saved from a disgrace , or the vast possessions he called his be kept in the family , and he was about to speak again when a heavy tread in the hall announced the approach of some one , and a moment after , Aunt Dinah , the housekeeper , appeared . 
`` She had come to sit up with her marster , '' she said , `` and let Miss Marian go to bed , where children like her ought to be . '' 
At first Marian objected , for though scarcely conscious of it herself , she was well enough pleased to sit where she was and hear her guardian talk of Frederic and of what she had no hope would ever be ; but when Aunt Dinah suggested to her that sitting up so much would make her look yellow and old , she yielded , for Frederic was a passionate admirer of beauty , and she well knew that she had none to lose . 
Thirteen years before our story opens , Marian had embarked with her father on board a ship which sailed from Liverpool to New York . 
Of that father she remembered little save that he was very poor , and that he talked of his poverty as if it were something of which he was proud . 
Pleasant memories , though , she had of an American gentleman who used often to take her on his lap , and tell her of the land to which she was going ; and when one day her father laid him down in his berth , with the fever as they said , she remembered how the kind man had cared for him , holding his aching head and watching by him till he died ; -- then , when it was all over , he had taken her upon his knee and told her she was to be his little girl now , and he bade her call him father -- telling her how her own dead parent had asked him to care for her , who in all the wide world had no near relative . 
Something , too , she remembered about an old coarse bag , which had troubled her new father very much , and which he had finally put in the bottom of his trunk , throwing overboard a few articles of clothing to make room for it . 
The voyage was long and stormy , but they reached New York at last , and he took her to his home -- not Redstone Hall , but an humble farm-house on the Hudson , where he had always lived . 
Frederic was a boy then -- a dark haired handsome boy of eleven , and even now she shuddered as she remembered how he used to tease and worry her . 
Still he liked her , she was sure -- and the first real grief which she remembered was on that rainy day when , with an extra pull at her long curls , he bade her good-by and went off to a distant boarding school . 
Col. Raymond , her guardian , was growing rich , and people said he must have entered into some fortunate speculation while abroad , for , since his return , prosperity had attended every movement ; and when , six months after Frederic 's departure , he went to Kentucky and purchased Redstone Hall , then rather a dilapidated building , Mrs. Burt , his housekeeper , had wondered where all his money came from , when he used to be so poor . 
They had moved to Kentucky when Marian was five and a half years old -- and now , after ten years ' improvement , there was not in the whole county so beautiful a spot as Redstone Hall , with its terraced grounds , its graveled walks , its plats of grass , its grand old trees , its creeping vines , its flowering shrubs and handsome park in the rear . 
And this was Marian 's home ; -- here she had lived a rather secluded life , for only when Frederic was with them did they see much company , and all the knowledge she had of the world was what she gleaned from books or learned from the negress Dinah , who , `` having lived with the very first families , '' frequently entertained her young mistress with stories of `` the quality , '' and the dinner parties at which her presence was once so indispensable . 
And Marian , listening to these glowing descriptions of satin dresses , diamonds and feathers , sometimes wished that she were rich , and could have a taste of fashion . 
To be sure , her guardian bought her always more than she needed -- but it was not hers , and without any particular reason why she should do so , she felt that she was a dependent and something of an inferior , especially when Frederic came home with his aristocratic manners , his graceful mustache , and the soft scent of perfumery he usually carried with him . 
He was always polite and kind to Marian , but she felt that there was a gulf between them . 
He was handsome ; she was plain -- he was rich ; she was poor -- he was educated , and she -- alas , for Marian 's education -- she read a great deal , but never yet had she given herself up to a systematic course of study . 
Governesses she had in plenty , but she usually coaxed them off into the woods , or down by the river , where she left them to do what they pleased , while she learned many a lesson from the great book of nature spread out so beautifully before her . 
All this had tended to make and keep her a very child , and it was not until her fourteenth year that any thing occurred to develop the genuine womanly qualities which she possessed . 
By the death of a distant relative , a little unfortunate blind girl was left to Colonel Raymond 's care , and was immediately taken to Redstone Hall , where she became the pet of Marian , who loved nothing in the whole world as dearly as the poor blind Alice . 
`` He was so precise and stuck up , '' she said ; `` and when he was at home Marian was not a bit like herself . '' 
To Marian , however , his occasional visits to Redstone Hall were sources of great pleasure . 
To look at his handsome figure , to listen to his voice , to anticipate his slightest wish and minister to his wants so quietly that he scarcely knew from whom the attention came , was happiness for her , and when he smiled upon her , as he often did , calling her `` a good little girl , '' she felt repaid for all she had done . 
Occasionally , since her guardian 's illness , she had thought of the future when some fine lady might come to Redstone Hall as its mistress , but the subject was an unpleasant one , and she always dismissed it from her mind . 
Never before had Marian thought so much of her personal appearance -- and now , feeling anxious to know exactly what her defects were , she arose , and lighting the lamp , placed it upon her dressing bureau -- then throwing a shawl around her shoulders , she sat down and minutely inspected the face which Frederie Raymond called so homely . 
This might be the result of eating slate-stones ; Dinah , who knew everything , said it was , and mentally resolving thereafter to abjure everything of the kind , Marian continued her investigations . 
It did not occur to her that her complexion was surpassingly fair , nor yet that her eyes were of a most beautiful blue , so intent was she upon the freckles which dotted her nose and a portion of her face . 
Slate-stones surely had nothing to do with these , and she knew of no way of remedying this evil -- unless , indeed , poulticingshould do it . 
-- She would consult Dinah on the subject , and feeling a good deal of confidence in the negress ' judgment , she passed on to what she considered her crowning point of ugliness -- her hair!It was soft , luxuriant and curly , but alas , it bore the color which , though accounted beautiful in Mary Stuart 's time , has long since been proscribed by fashion as horrid and unbecoming . 
Turn which way she would , or hold the lamp in any position she chose , it was still red -- a dark , decided red -- and the tears came to Marian 's eyes as she recalled the many times when , as a boy , Frederic taunted her with being a `` red-head '' or a `` brick-top , '' just as the humor suited him . 
Suddenly she remembered that among her treasures was a lock of her mother 's hair , and opening a rosewood box she took from it a shining trees which she laid upon the marble top of her bureau , and then bent down to admire its color , a beautiful auburn , such as is rarely seen -- and which , when seen , is sure to be admired . 
`` And this was my mother 's , '' she whispered , smoothing caressingly the silken hair . 
The gray morning light was by this time stealing through the window , and overcome with weariness and watching , Marian fell asleep , and when , two hours later , old Dinah came in to wake her , she found her sitting before the glass , with the lamp still burning at her side , and her head resting on her arms , which lay upon the low bureau . 
was Dinah 's exclamation , which at once roused Marian , who unhesitatingly answered , `` I got up to look in the glass , and see if I was so very homely . '' 
The compliment was a doubtful one , but Marian knew it was well meant , and , without a word in reply , commenced her morning toilet . 
That day , somewhat to her disappointment , her guardian did not resume the conversation of the previous night . 
He was convinced that Marian could be easily won , but he did not think it wise to encourage her until he had talked with his son , whose return he looked for auxiously . 
But day after day went by , and it was in vain that Alice listened , and Marian watched , for the daily stage . 
Marian was accordingly bidden to bring him his little writing desk , and then to leave the room , for he would be alone when he wrote that letter of confession . 
So , with the perspiration dropping from every pore , he wrote ; and , as he wrote , in his disordered imagination , there stood beside his pillow the white-haired Englishman , watching carefully to see that justice was done at last to Marian . 
Recently several letters had passed between the father and his son concerning the marriage of the latter with Marian -- a marriage every way distasteful to the young man , who , in his answer , had said far harsher things of Marian than he really meant , hoping thus to put an end to his father 's plan . 
She was `` rough , uncouth , uneducated and ugly , '' he said , `` and if his father did not give up that foolish fancy , he should positively hate the red-headed fright . '' 
All this the old man touched upon -- quoting the very words his son had used , and whispering to himself , `` Poor -- poor Marian , it would break her heart to know that he said that , but she never will -- she never will ; '' and then , with the energy of despair , he wrote the reason why she must be the wife of his son , pleading with him as only a dying man can plead , that he would not disregard the wishes of his father , and begging him to forget the dark-haired Isabel , who , though perhaps more beautiful , was not -- could not -- be as pure , as gentle and as good as Marian . 
He 'll marry her or else make restitution ; '' and laying it away , he commenced the last and hardest part of all -- the confessing to Marian how he had sinned against her . 
He knew that she believed that there was in him no evil , and his heart throbbed with agony as he nerved himself to tell her how for years he had acted a villain 's part , but it was done at last , and with a passionate appeal for her forgiveness , and a request that she would not forget him wholly , but come some time to visit his lonely grave , he finished the letter , and folding it up , wrote upon its back , `` For Marian ; '' then , taking the one intended for Frederic , he attempted to write , `` For my Son , '' but the ink was gone from his pen , there was a blur before his eyes , and though he traced the words he left no impress , and the letter bore no superscription to tell to whom it belonged . 
When at last he awoke , Marian was sitting by his side , and to her he communicated what he had done , telling her where the letters were , and that if he died ere Frederic 's return , she must give the one bearing the words `` For my Son '' to him . 
Had Marian Lindsey been like many girls , the caution would have insured the reading of the letter at once , but she fortunately shrank from anything dishonorable , and was blessed with but a limited share of woman 's curiosity ; consequently , the letter was safe in her care , even though no one ever came to claim it . 
In her chamber , Marian was busy with her toilet , trying the effect of dress after dress , and at Alice 's suggestion deciding at last upon a pale blue , which harmonized well with her fair complexion . 
Dinah , when consulted as to the best method of making red hair dark , had strongly recommended `` possum ile and sulphur , scented with some kind of essence ; '' but to this dye Marian did not take kindly . 
She preferred that her hair should retain its natural color , and falling as it did in soft curls around her face and neck , it was certainly not unbecoming . 
Her toilet was completed at last -- Alice 's little hands had decided that it was perfect -- the image reflected by the mirror was far from being ordinary-looking , and secretly wondering if Frederic would not think her tolerably pretty , Marian sat down to await his coming . 
She had not been seated long when Alice 's quick ear caught the sound of the distant stage , and in a few moments Marian from behind the half-closed shutter , was watching the young man as he came slowly up the avenue , which led from the highway to the house . 
`` 'T is because of his father , '' thought Marian . 
For Marian as a sister , he had no dislike , for he knew she possessed many gentle , womanly virtues , but from the thoughts of making her his wife he instinctively shrank . 
Only one had the shadow of a claim to bear that relation to him , and of her he was thinking that September afternoon as he came up the walk . 
She was poor , he knew , and the daughter of his landlady , who claimed a distant relationship with his father ; but she was beautiful , and a queen might covet her stately bearing , and polished , graceful manner . 
Into her heart he had never looked , for satisfied with the fair exterior , he failed to see the treachery lurking in her large black eyes , or yet to detect the fierce , stormy passions , which had a home within her breast . 
Isabella Huntington , or `` Cousin Bell , '' as he called her , was beautiful , accomplished , and artful , and during the year that Frederic Raymond had been an inmate of her mother 's family , she had succeeded in so completely infatuating the young man that now there was to him but one face in the world , and that in fancy shone upon him even when it was far away . 
He had never said to her that he loved her , for though often tempted so to do , something had always interposed between them , bidding him wait until he knew her better . 
Consequently he was not bound to her by words , but he thought it very probable that she would one day be his wife , and as he drew near to Redstone Hall , he could not forbear feeling a glow of pride , fancying how she would grace that elegant mansion as its rightful mistress . 
Of Marian , too , he thought -- harsh , bitter thoughts , mingled with softer emotions as he reflected that she possibly knew nothing of his father 's plan . 
He pitied her , he said , for if his father died , she would be alone in the world . 
After what had passed , it would hardly be pleasant for him to have her there where he could see her every day ; -- she might not be agreeable to Isabel either , and he should probably provide for her handsomely and have her live somewhere else -- at a fashionable boarding school , perhaps ! 
The answer to this question was that Frederic had been absent from New Haven for three weeks , and that Isabel , who took charge of his letters , neglected to forward the one written by Marian . 
Seldom before had he paid her so much attention , and feeling anxious that Marian should be similarly treated , the little girl , after answering his questions , said to him , coaxingly , `` Wo n't you kiss Marian , too , when she comes down ? 
She 's been ever so long dressing herself and trying to look pretty . '' 
`` Go for Marian , child , and tell her to come here , '' said Mr. Raymond . 
Alice obeyed , and as she left the room , Frederic said bitterly , `` I see she is leagued with you . 
I had thought better of her than that . '' 
`` No , she is n't , '' cried the father , fearing that his favorite project was in danger . 
`` I merely suggested it to her once -- only once . '' 
Frederic was about to reply , when the rustling of female garments announced the approach of Marian . 
To Colonel Raymond she was handsome then , as with a hightened bloom upon her cheek and a bashful light in her deep blue eyes , she entered timidly and offered her hand to Frederic . 
But to the jealous young man she was merely a plain , ordinary country girl , bearing no comparison to the peerless Isabel . 
Still he greeted her kindly , addressed to her a few trivial reremarks , and then resumed his conversation with little Alice , who , feeling that matters were going wrong , rolled her eyes often and anxiously toward the spot where she knew Marian was sitting -- and when at last the latter left the room , she said to Frederic , `` Is n't Marian pretty in her blue dress , with all those curls ? 
There are twenty of them , for I heard her count them . 
Say she ispretty , so I can tell her and make her feel good . '' 
Frederic would not then have admitted that Marian was pretty , even had he thought so , and biting his lip with vexation , he replied , `` I do not particularly admire blue , and I detest cork-screw curls . '' 
Marian was still in the lower hall , and heard both the question and the answer . 
Darting up the stairs , she flew to her chamber , and throwing herself upon the bed , burst into a passionate flood of tears . 
All in vain had she dressed herself for Frederic Raymond 's eye -- curling her hair in twenty curls , even as Alice had said . 
It must have some reference to their color , and clutching at her luxuriant tresses she would have torn them from her head , had not a little childish hand been laid upon hers , and Alice 's soothing voice murmured in her ear , `` do n't cry , Marian ; I would n't care for him . 
`` Yes -- no -- I do n't know , '' sobbed Marian . 
Alice was unaccustomed to such a burst of passion , and was trying to frame some reply , when the dinner bell rang , and lifting up her head , Marian said , `` Go down , Alice , and tell Dinah I ca n't come , and if she insists , tell her I wo n't ! '' 
said Dinah , casting a rueful glance at Marian 's empty chair . 
With a lowering brow Frederic complied , and seating himself near to his father , he folded his arms and said , `` Go on , I am ready now to hear -- but if it is of Marian you would speak , I will spare you that trouble , father , '' and Frederic 's voice was milder in its tone . 
`` I have always liked Marian very much as a sister , and if it so chances that you are taken from us , I will be the best of brothers to her . 
I will care for her and see that she does not want . 
Let this satisfy you , father , for I can not marry her . 
I do not love her , for I love another ; one compared to whom Marian is as the night to the day . 
I know her well , and though I never saw the daughter , I am sure she is selfish , ambitious , deceitful and proud , while Marian is so good . '' 
`` Marian is a mere child , '' interrupted Frederic . 
I certainly do not love Marian , neither do I suppose that she loves me . 
`` A few kind words from you would win Marian 's love at once , and when once won she would be to you a faithful , loving wife , whom you would ere long learn to prize . 
You can not treat any woman badly , Frederic , much less Marian . 
I know you would be happy with her , and should desire the marriage even though it could not save me from dishonor in the eyes of the world . '' 
Was it to Marian ? 
If so , give it to her , even to half your fortune , and leave me alone . '' 
He had touched a tender point , and raising himself in bed , the old man gasped , `` Yes , yes , boy -- but you have no money to give her . 
Everything you see around you is hers -- all hers ; and if you refuse her , Frederic -- hear me -- if you refuse Marian Lindsey , strict restitution must be made , and you will be a beggar as it were . 
Marry her , and as her husband you will keep it all and save me from disgrace . 
In the streets of Liverpool I first saw Marian 's father , and I mistook him for a beggar . 
No one suspected his wealth -- not even his young wife , Mary Grey , whom he married three years before I met him , and who died when Marian was born . 
She , too , had been an only child and an orphan ; and as in England there was none to care for him or his , he conceived the idea of emigrating to America , and there lavishing his stores of gold on Marian . 
She should be a lady , he said , and live in a palace fit for a queen . 
`` Do n't curse me , boy , '' hoarsely whispered the old man ; `` Marian will not . 
She 'll forgive me -- for Marian is an angel ; but I must hasten . 
But it 's hers -- it 's Marian 's -- every cent of it is hers . 
Your education was paid for with her money ; all you have and are you owe to Marian Lindsey , who , by every law of the land , is the heiress of Redstone Hall . '' 
`` You are right , '' returned the father ; `` the old shell was mine , but when I brought Marian home , it was not worth a thousand dollars , and it was all I had in the world . 
Her money has made it what it is . 
I always intended to tell her when she was old enough to understand , but as time went by I shrank from it , particularly when I saw how much you prized the luxuries which money alone can buy , and how that money kept you in the proud position you occupy . 
I would save you from poverty , and my name from disgrace , by marrying you to Marian . 
She must know the truth , of course , for in no other way can my conscience be satisfied -- but the world would still be kept in ignorance . '' 
`` And if I do not marry her , oh , father , must it come -- poverty , disgrace , everything ? '' 
If you refuse , I must deed it all to her . 
The lawyer , of course , must know the cause of so strange a proceeding , and I have no faith that he would keep the secret , even if Marian should . 
I left it in writing in case you did not come , and I gave you my dying curse if you failed of restoring to Marian her fortune . 
It was right , and he shrank from any further injustice to the orphan , Marian , with whom he had suddenly changed places . 
Still he could not make her his wife . 
It would be a greater wrong than ever his father had done to her . 
But he could not do it now , and going up to his father , he said hesitatingly , as if it cost a bitter , agonized struggle to give up all his wealth , `` I can not do it , father ; neither would Marian wish it if she knew . 
Send for her now , '' he continued , as a new idea flashed upon him , `` tell her all , here in my presence , and let her choose for me ; but stay , '' he added , quickly , coloring crimson at the unmanly selfishness which had prompted the sending for Marian , a selfishness which whispered that the generous girl would share her fortune with him ; `` stay , we will not send for her . 
He could destroy that now -- for he would not that Marian should ever know what it contained . 
She might not be Frederic 's wife , but he would save her from unnecessary pain ; and exerting all his strength , he tottered to his private drawer , and took the letter in his hand . 
`` Yes , this is the one , '' he whispered -- `` the other reads ` For Marian , '' ' and hastening back to his bed-room he threw upon the fire burning in the grate , the letter , but , alas , the wrong one -- for in the drawer still lay the fatal missive which would one day break poor Marian 's heart , and drive her forth a wanderer from the home she loved so well . 
So Marian , who had dried her tears and half forgotten their cause , sat down to her solitary tea , little dreaming of the stormy scene which the walls of Frederic 's chamber looked upon that night . 
And this was Marian , the one his father would have him marry ; and why did n't he ? 
when the marrying her would insure him all the elegances of life to which he had been accustomed , and which he prized so highly . 
She was a child yet ; he could mold her to his will and make her what he pleased . 
She might be handsome some time . 
But no , she would never be aught save the plain , unpolished Marian , wholly unlike the beautiful picture he had formed of Redstone Hall 's proud mistress . 
As yet he was not worthy to be the husband of one as gentle and good as Marian , but he was passing through the fire , and the flames which burned so fiercely would purify and make him better . 
`` I am not ready yet ; tell Marian not to wait , '' was the message he gave the servant ; and so another hour passed by , and heard the clock strike nine . 
He could stay there if he chose , for he felt sure he could win Marian 's love if he tried . 
He heard a servant call Marian and say that his father wanted her ; some new idea had entered the sick man 's head . 
He had probably decided to tell her all before he died , but it was not too late to prevent it , the young man thought ; he could not be a beggar , and with a face as white as ashes , and limbs which trembled in every joint , he hurried down the stairs , meeting in the hall both Marian and the lawyer . 
`` Go back , '' he whispered to the former , lnying his hand upon her shoulder ; `` I would see my father first alone . '' 
Wonderingly Marian looked into his pale , worn face and bloodshot eyes ; then motioning the lawyer into another room , she , too , followed him thither , while Frederic sought his father 's bedside , and bending low whispered in the ear of the bewildered and half-crazed man that he would marry the Heiress of Redstone Hall ! 
And Frederic , as often as he heard these words , would lay his aching head upon the pillow and try to force back the thoughts which continually whispered to him that a bad promise was better broken than kept , and that at the last he would tell Marian all , and throw himself upon her generosity . 
Since the morning when he made the fatal promise he had said but little to her , though she had been often in the room , ministering to his father 's comfort -- and once in the evening when he looked more than usually pale and weary , she had insisted upon taking his place , or sharing at least in his vigils . 
But he had declined her offer , and two hours later a slender little figure had glided noiselessly into the room and placed upon the table behind him a waiter , filled with delicacies which her own hand had prepared , and which she knew from experience would be needed ere the long night was over . 
He did not turn his head when she came in , but he knew whose step it was ; and in his heart he thanked her for her thoughtfulness , and compelled himself to eat what she had brought because he knew how disappointed she would be if in the morning she found it all untouched . 
And still he was as far from loving her now as he had ever been ; and on the second night , as he sat by his sleeping father , he resolved , come what might , he would retract the promise made under such excitement . 
Say you will make Marian your wife , and that until she is your wife she shall not know what I have done , for that might influence her decision . 
The letter I have left for her is in my private drawer , but you can keep the key . 
`` Tell Marian that dying I blessed her with more than a father 's blessing , for she is very dear to me . 
And the little helpless Alice -- she has money of her own , but she must still live with you and Marian . 
But when Marian came , a few low spoken words from her quieted the tumult , and those whose services were not needed dispersed to the kitchen , where , forgetful of their recent demonstrations of grief , they speculated upon the probable result of their `` old marster 's death , '' and wondered if with the new one they should lead as easy a life as they had done heretofore . 
Still he was now the richest man in the county , and it would not be politic to treat him with disrespect -- so they came about him with words of sympathy and offers of assistance , all of which he listened to abstractedly , and when they asked for some directions as to the arrangements for the burial , he answered , `` I do not know -- I am not myself to-day -- but go to Marian . 
I will abide by her decision . '' 
So to Marian they went ; and hushing her own great grief -- for she mourned for the departed as for a well loved father -- Marian told them what she thought her guardian would wish that they should do . 
But he had no right to do that , he said ; all that was required of him was to keep it from Marian until such time as he was at liberty to let her read it . 
-- Marian would seek for her letter , he thought , and missing the key , would come to him , and then -- oh , how he hoped it would be weeks and months before she came , for when she did he knew he must tell her why it was withheld . 
Meantime , Marian waited day after day vainly wishing that he would speak to her upon the subject ; but he did not , and at last , four weeks after her guardian 's death , she sought the library again , but found the drawer locked as usual . 
`` It is unjust to treat me so , '' she said . 
Then , as she recalled the conversation which had passed between herself and Colonel Raymond on that night when he first hinted of a wrong , she wondered if he had said aught to Frederic of her . 
Most earnestly she hoped not -- and yet she was almost certain that he had , and this was why Frederic treated her so strangely . 
`` He hates me , '' she said bitterly , `` because he thinks I want him -- but he need n't , for I would n't have him now , even if he knelt at my feet , and begged of me to be his wife ; I 'll tell him so , too , the first chance I get , '' and sinking into the large arm chair Marian laid her head upon the writing desk and wept . 
The day had been rainy and dark , and as she sat there in the gathering night and listened to the low moan of the October wind , she thought with gloomy forebodings of the future , and what it would bring to her . 
`` Oh , it is dreadful to be so homeless -- so friendless , so poor , '' she cried , and in that cry there was a note of desolation which touched a chord of pity in the heart of him who stood on the threshold of the door , silently watching the young girl as she battled with her stormy grief . 
She seemed to him a little girl , and as such he had addressed her ; but to the startled Marian it mattered not what he said -- there was kindness in his voice , and lifting up her face , which even in the darkness looked white and worn , she sobbed , `` Oh , Frederic , you do n't hate me , then ? '' 
`` Hate you , Marian , '' he answered , `` of course not . 
Frederic made no reply , and resolving to make a clean breast of it , Marian continned , `` There 's nobody to care for me now , and I wish you to be my brother , just as you used to be , and if your father said any thing else of me to you he did n't mean it , I am sure ; I do n't at any rate , and I want you to forget it and not hate me for it . 
and Marian 's voice was again choked with tears . 
She had stumbled upon the very subject uppermost in Frederic 's mind , and drawing a chair near to her , he said , `` I will not profess to be ignorant of what you mean , Marian . 
`` Yes , yes , '' answered Marian quickly , `` and I 've been for it so many times . 
It 's mine , you know , '' and Marian looked at him wistfully . 
Frederic hesitated a moment , and misapprehending the motive of his hesitancy , Marian continued , `` Do not fear what I may think . 
`` Marian , '' and Frederic trembled with strong emotion , `` the night my father died , I laid my hand upon his head and promised that you should not see that letter until you were a bride . '' 
Marian exclaimed passionately , `` I shall never be a bride -- never -- certainly not yours ! '' 
and the little hands worked nervously together , while she continued . 
Man-like he began to feel some interest now that there was opposition , and to her exclamation `` neither would I , '' he replied softly , `` Not if I wish it , Marian ? '' 
The tone rather than the words affected the young girl , thrilling her with a new-born delight ; and laying her hand again upon the desk , she sobbed afresh , not impetuously , this time , but steadily , as if the crying did her good . 
Greatly she longed for him to speak again , but he did not . 
He was waiting for her , and drying her tears , she lifted up her face , and in a voice which seemed to demand the truth , she said : `` Frederic , do you wish it ? 
It was a perplexing question , and Frederic Raymond felt that he was dealing falsely with her , but he made to her the only answer he could -- `` Men seldom ask a woman to marry them unless they wish it . '' 
`` I know , '' returned Marian , `` but -- do -- would you have thought of it if your father had not first suggested it ? '' 
`` Marian , '' said Frederic , `` I am much older than yourself , and I might never have thought of marrying you . 
Will you , Marian ? 
In her bewilderment Marian fancied he had said , `` I do wish to have it so , '' but she would know another thing , and not daring to put the question to him direct , she said , `` Do men ever wish to marry one whom they do not love ? '' 
Frederic understood her at once , and for a moment felt strongly tempted to tell her the truth , for in that case he was sure she would refuse to listen to his suit and he would then be free , but his father 's presence seemed over and around him , while Redstone Hall was too fair to be exchanged for poverty ; and so he answered , `` I have always loved you as a sister , and in time I will love you as you deserve . 
I will be kind to you , Marian , and I think I can make you happy '' He spoke with earnestness , for he knew he was deceiving the young girl , and in his inmost soul he determined to repair the wrong by learning to love her , as she said : `` And suppose I refuse you , what then ? '' 
Marian spoke decidedly , and something in her manner startled Frederic , who now that he had gone thus far , did not care to be thwarted . 
`` I can go away , '' said Marian , mournfully , while Frederic replied , `` No , Marian , if you will not be my wife , Imust go away ; Redstone Hall can not be the home of us both , and if you refuse I shall go -- soon , very soon . '' 
asked Marian , with childish simplicity ; but ere Frederic could answer , the door suddenly opened and old Dinah appeared , exclaiming as her eye fell upon them , `` For the dear Lord 's sake , if you two ai n't settin ' together in the dark , when I 've done hunted everywhar for you , '' and Dinah 's face wore a very knowing look , as setting down the candle she departed , muttering something about `` when me and Philip was young . '' 
The spell was broken for Marian , and starting up , she said , `` I can not talk any more to-night . 
I 'll answer you some other time , '' and she hurried into the hall , where she stumbled upon Dinah , who greeted her with `` Ai n't you two kinder hankerin ' arter each other , ` case if you be , it 's the sensiblest thing you ever done . 
Marian made no reply but darted up the stairs to her room , where she could be alone to think . 
It seemed to her a dream , and yet she knew it was a reality . 
Frederic had asked her to be his wife , and though she had said to herself that she would not marry him even if he knelt at her feet , she felt vastly like revoking that decision ! 
If she were only sure he loved her , or would love her ; and then she recalled every word he had said , wishing she could have looked into his face and seen what its expression was . 
She did not think of the letter in her excitement . 
-- She only thought of Frederic 's question , and she longed for some one in whom she could confide . 
Alice , who always retired early , was already asleep , and as her soft breathing fell on Marian 's ear , she said , `` Alice is much wiser than children usually are at six and a half . 
I mean to tell her , '' and , stealing to the bedside , she whispered , `` Alice , Alice , wake up a moment , will you ? '' 
Alice turned on her pillow , and when sure she was awake , Marian said impetuously , `` If you were me , would you marry Frederic Raymond ? '' 
The blind eyes opened wide , as if they doubted the sanity of the speaker ; then quietly replying , `` No , indeed , I would n't , '' Alice turned a second time upon her pillow and slept again , while Marian , a good deal piqued at the answer , tormented herself with wondering what the child could mean , and why she disliked Frederic so much . 
The next morning it was Alice who awoke Marian and said , `` Was it a dream , or did you say something to me last night about marrying Frederic ? '' 
For a moment Marian forgot that the sightless eyes turned so inquiringly toward her could not see , and she covered her face with her hands to hide the blushes she knew were burning there . 
and half willingly , half reluctantly , Marian told of the strange request which Frederic had made , saying nothing , however , of the letter , for if Colonel Raymond had done her a wrong , she felt it a duty she owed his memory to keep it to herself . 
The darkened world in which Alice lived , had matured her other faculties far beyond her age , and though not yet seven years old , she was in many things scarcely less a child than Marian , whose story puzzled her , for she could hardly understand how one who had seemed so much her companion could think of being a married woman . 
Marian soon convinced her , however , that there was a vast difference between almost seven and almost sixteen , and still she was not reconciled . 
`` Frederic is well enough , '' she said , `` and I once heard Agnes Gibson say he was the best match in the county , but somehow he do n't seem to like you . 
`` Yes , but I can learn , '' answered Marian , sadly , thinking with regret of the many hours she had played in the woods when she might have been practising upon the piano , or reading the books which Frederic liked best . 
`` Oh , '' exclaimed Alice , catching her breath and drawing nearer to Marian , `` would n't it be nice for you and me to live here all alone with Dinah , and do just as we 're a mind to . 
`` No , '' returned Marian , `` if either goes away , it will be me , for I 've no right here , and Frederic has . '' 
`` I do n't know , '' returned Marian mournfully , a dim foreboding as it were of her dark future rising up before her . 
She would rather Marian should marry Frederic than go away and die , and so she said , `` I 'd have him , I reckon , '' adding quickly , `` You 'll carry the keys , then , wo n't you , and give me all the preserves and cake I want ? '' 
Thus was the affair amicably adjusted between the two , and when at the breakfast table she met with Frederic , she was ready to answer his question ; but she chose to let him broach the subject , and this he did do that evening when he found her alone in his father 's room . 
How far Redstone Hall , bank notes , stock and real estate influenced this decision we can not say , but he was sincere in his intention of treating Marian well , and when he found her by accident in his father 's room , he said to her kindly , `` Can you answer me now ? '' 
Marian was not yet enough accustomed to the world to conceal whatever she felt , and with the light of a new happiness shining on her childish face , she went up to him , and laying her hand confidingly upon his , she said , `` I will marry you , Frederic , if you wish me to . '' 
When the previous night she had hesitated to answer , Frederic was conscious of a vague fear that she might say no -- and now that she had said yes , he felt less pleasure than pain , for the die he knew was cast . 
A more observing eye than Marian 's would have seen the dark shadow which flitted over his face , and the sudden paling of his lips , but she did not ; she only saw how he shook off her hand without even so much as touching it , and all the novels she had ever read would surely have sanctioned so modest a proceeding as that ! 
But novels , she reflected , were not true , and as she was an actor in real life , she must accept whatever that life might bring . 
Still she was not quite satisfied , and when Frederic , fancying he should feel better if the matter were well over , said to her , `` There is no reason why we should delay -- my father would wish the marriage to take place immediately , and I will speak to Dinah at once , '' she felt that with him it was a mere form , and bursting into tears she said passionately , `` You are not obliged to marry me . 
For a moment Frederic stood irresolute , and then he replied , `` Do n't be foolish , Marian , but take a common sense view of the matter . 
His manner both frightened and fascinated Marian , and she answered through her tears , `` I will be satisfied , and wait . '' 
Frederic knew well that Marian was too much of a child to manage the affair , and after his interview with her , he sought out Dinah , to whom he announced his intentions . 
On this occasion the announcement of Master Frederic 's expected marriage was received by the Smitherses with loud shouts of joy and hurrahs for Miss Marian . 
The Higginses , on the contrary , though friendly to Marian , declared she was not high bred enough to keep up the glory of the house , and Aunt Hetty , who led the clan and was a kind of rival to old Dinah , launched forth into a wonderful stream of eloquence . 
`` Miss Marian would do in her place , '' she said , `` but 't was a burnin ' shame to set such an onery thing over them as had been oncet used to the quality . 
'T was different with the Smitherses , whose old Miss was bed rid with a spine in her back , and had n't but one store carpet in the house . 
But the Higginses , she 'd let 'em know , had been ` customed to sunthin ' better . 
`` Sarved you right , and the fust one that raises thar voice agin Miss Marian 'll catch sunthin ' a heap wus than dirty dishwater . '' 
Meantime Marian was confiding to Alice the story of her engagement , and wondering if Frederic intended taking a bridal tour . 
She hoped he did , for she so much wished to see a little of the world , particularly New York , of which she had heard such glowing accounts . 
But nothing could be less in accordance with Frederic 's feelings than a bridal tour -- and when once Marian ventured to broach the subject , he said that under the circumstances it would hardly be right to go off and enjoy themselves , so they had better stay quietly at home . 
And this settled the point , for Marian never thought of questioning his decision . 
If they made no journey , she would not need any additions to her wardrobe , and she was thus saved from the trouble which usually falls to the lot of brides . 
-- Still it was not at all in accordance with her ideas -- this marrying without a single article of finery , and once she resolved to indulge in a new dress at least . 
She had ample means of her own , for her guardian had been lavish of his money , always giving her far more than she could use , and during the last year she had been saving a fund for the purpose of surprising Alice and the blacks with handsome Christmas presents . 
-- The former was to have a little gold watch , which she had long desired , because she liked to hear it tick -- but the watch and the dress could not both be bought , and when she considered this , Marian generously gave up the latter for the sake of pleasing the blind girl . 
Among her dresses was a neat , white muslin , given her by Colonel Raymond only the Summer previous , and this she decided should be the wedding robe , for black was gloomy , she said , and would almost seem ominous of evil . 
Marian , too , felt this keenly , but she would not admit it , and she said to Dinah , `` You ca n't expect him to be like himself when he 's mourning for his father . '' 
It could not be , they said , that he had really cared about the Will , else why had he so soon taken Marian to share his fortune with him ? 
But Frederic kept his own counsel , and once when questioned on the subject of his marriage and asked if it were not a sudden thing , he answered haughtily , `` Of course not -- it was decided years ago , when Marian first came to live with us . '' 
And so amid the speculations of friends , the gossip of Dinah , the joyous anticipations of Marian , and the harrowing doubts of Frederic , the two weeks passed away , bringing at last the eventful day when Redstone Hall was to have once more a mistress . 
`` Itwas the veriest farce in all the world , the marriage of Frederic Raymond with a child of fifteen ; '' at least so said Agnes Gibson of twenty-five , and so said sundry other guests who at the appointed hour assembled in the parlor of Redstone Hall , to witness the sacrifice -- not of Frederic as they vainly imagined , but of the unsuspecting Marian . 
He knew what he did , and why he did it , while she , blindfolded as it were , was about to leap into the uncertain future . 
No such gloomy thoughts as these , however , intruded themselves upon her mind as she stood before her mirror and with trembling fingers made her simple bridal toilet . 
When first the idea of marrying Frederic was suggested to her nearly as much pride as love had mingled in her thoughts , for Marian was not without her ambition , and the honor of being the mistress of Redstone Hall had influenced her decision . 
Not a word did he say against Marian , but he gave her to understand that but for his father the match would never have been made -- that circumstances over which he had no control compelled him to do what he was doing . 
He should never forget the pleasant hours spent in her society , he said , and he closed by asking her to visit the future Mrs. Raymond at Redstone Hall . 
It cost him a bitter struggle to write thus indifferently to one he loved so well , but it was right , he said , and when the letter was finished he felt that the last tie which bound him to Isabel was sundered , and there was nothing for him now but to make the best of Marian . 
So when on their bridal morning she came to him and asked his wishes concerning her dress , he answered her very kindly , `` As you are in mourning you had better make no change , besides I think black very becoming to your fair complexion . '' 
This was the first compliment he had ever paid her , and her heart thrilled with delight , but when , as she was leaving the room he called her back and said , still gently , kindly , `` Would you as soon wear your hair plain ? 
I do not quite fancy ringlets , '' her eyes filled with tears , for she remembered the corkscrew curls , and glancing in the mirror at her wavy hair , she wished it were possible to remedy the defect . 
`` I will do the best I can , '' she said , and returning to her room , she commenced her operations , but it was a long , tedious process , the combing out of those curls , for her hair was tenacious of its rights , and even when she thought it subdued and let go of the end , it rolled up about her forehead in tight round rings , as if spurning alike both water and brush . 
Marian smiled a kind of quiet happy smile and went on with her task , which was finished at last , and her luxuriant hair was bound at the back of her head in a large flat knot . 
The effect was not becoming and she knew it , but if Frederic liked it she was satisfied , even if Dinah did demur , telling her she looked like `` a cat whose ears had been boxed . '' 
Whether it were the newness of her position , or a presentiment of coming evil Marian could not tell , but into her heart there crept a chill as she glanced timidly at the man who stood so silently beside her , and thought , `` He is my husband . '' 
But yesterday had gone and to-morrow had come -- it was to-day , now , with him , and Marian was his wife . 
Turn which way he would , the reality was the same , and with an intense loathing of himself and a deep pity for her , he feigned some trivial excuse and went away to his room , where , with the gathering darkness and his own wretched thoughts , he would be alone . 
With strange unrest Marian wandered from room to room , wondering if Frederic had so soon grown weary of her presence , and sometimes half wishing that she were Marian Lindsey again , and that the new name by which they called her belonged to some one else . 
So to the parlor Marian went , finding him sitting unemployed and wrapped in gloomy thought . 
He heard her step upon the carpet , but standing in the shadow as she did , she could not see the look of pain which flitted over his face at her approach . 
`` Frederic , '' she said , `` I may read the letter now -- will you give me the key ? '' 
Mechanically he did as she desired , and then with a slightly uneasy feeling as to the effect the letter might have upon her , he went back to his reflections , while she started to leave the room . 
When she reached the door she paused a moment and looked back . 
In giving her the key he had changed his position , and she could see the suffering expression of his white face . 
Quickly returning to his side , she said anxiously , `` Are you sick ? '' 
Marian hesitated a moment -- then parting the damp brown hair from off his forehead she kissed him timidly and left the room . 
Through the hall the nimble feet of Marian sped until she stood within her late guardian 's room , and there she stopped , for the atmosphere seemed oppressive and laden with terror . 
`` 'T is because it 's so dark , '' she said , and going out into the hall , she took a lamp from the table and then returned . 
But the olden feeling was with her still -- a feeling as if she were treading some fearful gulf , and she was half tempted to turn back even now , and ask Frederic to come with her while she read the letter . 
`` I will not be so foolish , though , '' she said , and opening the library door she walked boldly in ; but the same Marian who entered there never came out again ! 
Oh , how still it was in that room , and the click of the key as it turned the slender bolt echoed through the silent apartment , causing Marian to start as if a living presence had been near . 
The drawer was opened , and she held the letter in her hand , while unseen voices seemed whispering to her , `` Oh , Marian , Marian -- leave the letter still untouched . 
But Marian did not understand -- nor know why it was she trembled so . 
She only knew she had the letter in her hand -- her letter -- the one left by her guardian . 
It bore no superscription , but it was for her , of course , and fixing herself in a comfortable position , she broke the seal and read : `` My Dear Child : '' There was nothing in those three words suggestive of a mistake -- and Marian read on till , with a quick , nervous start , she glanced forward , then backward -- and then read on and on , until at last not even the fear of death itself could have stopped her from that reading . 
That letter was never intended for her eye -- she knew that now , but had the cold hand of her guardian been interposed to wrest it from her , she would have held it fast until she learned the whole . 
Like coals of living fire , the words burned into her soul , scorching , blistering as they burned -- and when the letter was finished she fell upon her face with a cry so full of agony and horror that Frederic in the parlor heard the wail of human anguish , and started to his feet , wondering whence it came . 
`` It was the wind , '' he said , and he resumed his seat , while , in that little room , not very far away , poor Marian came back to consciousness , and crouching on the floor , prayed that she might die . 
She understood it now -- how she had been deceived , betrayed , and cruelly wronged . 
She knew , too , that she was the heiress of untold wealth , and for a single moment her heart beat with a gratified pride , but the surprise was too great to be realized at once , and the feeling was soon absorbed in the reason why Frederic Raymond had made her his wife . 
It was not herself he had married , but her fortune -- her money -- Redstone Hall . 
She was merely a necessary incumbrance , which he would rather should have been omitted in the bargain . 
The thought was maddening , and , stretching out her arms , she asked again that she might die . 
she cried , `` and tell me ? 
I would gladly have given him half my fortune -- yes , all -- all -- rather than be the wretched thing I am , and he would have been free to love and marry this -- '' She could not at first speak the name of her rival -- but she said it at last , and the sound of it wrung her heart with a new and torturing pain . 
She had never heard of Isabel Huntington before , and as she thought how beautiful and grand she was , she whispered to herself , `` Why did n't he go back to her , and leave me , the red-headed fright , alone ? 
Let me look at it again , '' and the tone of her voice was bitter and the expression of her face hard and stony , as taking up the letter she read for the second time that `` she was uncouth , uneducated and ugly , '' and if his father did not give up that foolish fancy , Frederic would positively `` hate the red headed fright . '' 
Her guardian had not given up the foolish fancy , consequently there was but one inference to be drawn . 
In her excitement she did not consider that Frederic had probably written of her harsher things than he really meant . 
She only thought , `` He loathes me -- he despises me -- he wishes I was dead -- and I dared to kiss him too , '' she added . 
`` How he hated me for that , but 't was the first , and it shall be the last , for I will go away forever and leave him Redstone Hall , the bride he married a few hours ago , '' and laying her face upon the chair Marian thought long and earnestly of the future . 
She had come into that room a happy , simple-hearted , confiding child , but she had lived years since , and she sat there now a crushed but self-reliant woman , ready to go out and contend with the world alone . 
Gradually her thoughts and purposes took a definite form . 
She was ignorant of the knotty points of law , and she did not know but Frederic could get her a divorce , but from this publicity she shrank . 
She could not be pointed at as a discarded wife . 
She would rather go away where Frederic would never see nor hear of her again , and she fancied that by so doing he would after a time at least be free to marry Isabel . 
Marian was beautiful then in her desolation , and so Frederic Raymond would have said , could he have seen her with the light of her noble sacrifice of self shining in her eyes , and the new-born , womanly expression on her face . 
The first fearful burst was over , and calmly she sat down to her task -- but the storm rose high again as she essayed to write that good-by , which would seem to him who read it a cry of despair wrung from a fainting heart . 
`` Frederic -- dear Frederic , '' she began , `` can I -- may I say my husbandonce -- just once -- and I 'll never insult you with that name again ? 
-- You need n't talk of me often , but sometimes , when you are all alone , and you are sure she will not know , think of poor little Marian , who gave her life away , that one she loved the best in all the world might have wealth and happiness . 
And well might Marian say this , for it seemed to her that she dipped her pen in her very heart 's blood , when she wrote that last adieu . 
She folded up the letter and directed it to Frederic -- then taking another sheet she wrote to the blind girl : `` Dearest Alice -- Precious little Alice . 
The letters finished , she left them upon the desk , where they could not help being seen by the first one who should enter -- then stealing up the stairs to the closet at the extremity of the hall , she put on her bonnet , vail and shawl , and started for her purse , which was in the chamber where Alice slept . 
It seemed to Marian in that moment of agony that her very life was going out , and she leaned against a pillar to keep herself from falling . 
she thought . 
and looking up into the sky she prayed that if in heaven they should meet again , he might know and love her there for what she suffered here . 
On the withered grass and leaves near by there was a rustling sound as if some one was coming , and Marian drew back for fear of being seen , but it was only Bruno , the large watch dog . 
He had just been released from his kennel , and he came tearing up the walk , and with a low savage growl sprang toward the spot where Marian was hiding . 
`` Bruno , good Bruno , '' she whispered , and in an instant the fierce mastiff crouched at her feet and licked her hand with a whining sound , as if he suspected something wrong . 
One more yearning glance at Frederic -- one more tearful look at her old home , and Marian walked rapidly down the avenue , followed by Bruno , who could neither be coaxed nor driven back . 
It was all in vain that Marian stamped her little foot , wound her arms round his shaggy neck , bidding him return ; he only answered with a faint whine quite as expressive of obstinacy as words could have been . 
He knew Marian had no business to be abroad at that hour of the night , and , with the faithfulness of his race , was determined to follow . 
At length , as she was beginning to despair of getting rid of him , she remembered how pertinaciously he would guard any article which he knew belonged to the family -- and on the bridge which crossed the Elkhorn , she purposely dropped her glove and handkerchief , the latter of which bore her name in full . 
The ruse was successful , for after vainly attempting to make her know that she had lost something , the dog turned back , and , with a loud , mournful howl , which Marian accepted as his farewell , he laid himself down by the handkerchief and glove , turning his head occasionally in the direction Marian had gone , and uttering low plaintive howls when he saw she did not return . 
Meantime Marian kept on her way , striking out into the fields so as not to be observed -- and at last , just as the cars sounded in the distance , she came up to a clump of trees growing a little to the left , and on the opposite side of the road from that on which the depot stood . 
By getting in here no one would see her at the station , and when the train stopped she came out from her concealment , and bounding lightly upon the platform of the rear car , entered unobserved . 
As the passengers were sitting with their backs toward her , but one or two noticed her when she came in , and these scarce gave her a thought , as she sank into the seat nearest to the door , and drawing her vail over her face trembled violently lest she should be recognized , or at least noted and remembered . 
But her fears were vain , for no one there had ever seen or heard of her -- and in a moment more the train was moving on , and she , heart-broken and alone , was taking her bridal tour ! 
Inher solitary bed little Alice slumbered on , moaning occasionally in her sleep , and at last when the clock struck nine , starting up and calling `` Marian , Marian , where are you ? '' 
Then , remembering that Marian could not come to her that night , she puzzled her little brain with the great mystery , and wept herself to sleep for the second time . 
With Frederic she had heard in the distance the bitter moan which Marian made when first she learned how she had been deceived , and like him she had wondered what the sound could be -- then as a baby 's cry came from a cabin near by , she had said to herself , `` some of them Higgins brats , I 'll warrant . 
They 're allus a squallin ' , '' and , satisfied with this conclusion , she had resumed her work . 
Once or twice after that she was in the house , feeling a good deal disturbed at seeing Frederic sitting alone without his bride , who , she rightly supposed , `` was somewhar . 
I hope to goodness ` taint me , nor Phil , nor Lid , nor Victory Eugeny , '' and turning to Aunt Hetty , who was troubled with vertigo , she asked if `` she 'd felt any signs of an afterplax fit lately ? '' 
`` I 'll go this minit and see if Miss Marian wants me . '' 
That handkercher looks mighty like Miss Marian 's hem-stitched one . '' 
`` It is hers , '' returned Frederic -- `` do you know where she is ? '' 
`` You is the one who orto know that , I reckon , '' answered Dinah , adding that she `` had n't seen her sense jest after dark , when she went up stars with Alice . '' 
In his abstraction he had not heeded the lapse of time , though he wondered where Marian was , and once feeling anxious to know what she would say to the letter , he was tempted to go in quest of her . 
But he did not -- and now , with a presentiment that all was not right , he went to Alice 's chamber , but found no Marian there . 
Neither was she in any of the chambers , nor in the hall , nor in the dining room , nor in his father 's room , and he stood at last in the library door . 
When Marian wrote that `` she gave her life away , '' she had no thought of deceiving him , for her giving himup was giving her very life . 
But he did not so understand it , and sinking into a chair he gasped , `` Marian is dead ! '' 
Marian , Marian -- wo n't somebody bring her back ? '' 
`` If marster 'll tell me whar to look , I 'll find her , so help me , Lord , '' said uncle Phil , the tears rolling down his dusky cheeks . 
`` You found her handkerchief upon the bridge , '' returned Frederic , `` and Bruno has been howling there -- do n't you see ? 
She 's in the river ! 
-- She 's drowned ! 
Oh , Marian -- poor Marian , I 've killed her -- but God knows I did not mean to ; '' and in the very spot where not long before poor Marian had fallen on her face , the desolate man now lay on his , and suffered in part what she had suffered there . 
She had been roused from sleep by the confusion , and hearing the uproar in the hall and library , had felt her way to the latter spot , where in the doorway she stood asking for Marian . 
`` Bless you , honey , Miss Marian 's dead -- drownded , '' said Dinah , and Alice 's shriek mingled with the general din . 
At the sound of his name Frederic lifted up his head , and taking the child in his arms , kissed her tenderly , as if he would thus make amends for his coldness to the lost Marian . 
`` If Miss Marian 's in the river , we 'd better be a fishin ' her out , '' and the practical negro proceeded to make the necessary arrangements . 
Before he left the room , however , he would know if he were working for a certainty , and turning to his master , said , `` Have you jest cause for thinkin ' she 's done drownded herself -- ` case if you hai n't , ` tai n't no use huntin ' this dark night , and it 's gwine to rain , too . 
Thus appealed to , Frederic answered , `` She says in the letter that she 's going away forever , that she shall not come back again , and she spoke of giving her life away . 
You found her handkerchief and glove upon the bridge , with Bruno watching near , and she is gone . 
Gener ` ly , though , you could calkerlate on thar doin ' jest con-tra-ry to what you 'd ` spect they would , and if Miss Marian preferred the river to that twenty-five pound feather-bed that Dinah spent mor 'n an hour in makin ' up , 't was her nater , and ` twa n't for him to say agin it . 
Bareheaded , and utterly regardless of the rain which , as Uncle Phil had prophesied , began to fall in torrents , he gave the necessary directions , and when the morning broke , few would have recognized the elegant bridegroom of the previous day in the white-faced , weary man , who , with soiled garments and dripping hair , stood upon the narrow bridge , and in the grey November morning looked mournfully down the river as it went rushing on , telling no secret , if secret , indeed , there were to tell , of the wild despair which must have filled poor Marian 's heart and maddened her brain ere she sought that watery grave . 
`` Poor Marian , '' he whispered to himself , `` I alone am the cause of your sad death ; '' and most gladly would he then have become a beggar and earned his bread by the sweat of his brow , could she have come back again , full of life , of health and hope , just as she was the day before . 
To Alice Frederic had read the letter left for her , and treasuring up each word the child groped her way into the kitchen , where , holding the note before her sightless eyes as if she could really see , she repeated it to the assembled blacks , `` Lor ' bless the child , '' sobbed Dinah from behind her woolen apron , `` I knowed she would remember me . '' 
She was a lady , every inch of her , Miss Marian was , an ' if I said any badness of her , I want you to forgive me , Dinah . 
Her own heart was throbbing with anguish , but she felt that his was a sorrow different from her own , and feeling her way to where he sat she wound her little arms around his neck , and whispered tenderly : `` We must love each other more now that Marian is gone . '' 
He made no answer except to take her on his lap and lay her head upon his bosom ; but Alice was satisfied with this , and after a moment she said , `` Frederic , do you know why Marian killed herself ? '' 
He had ruined Marian , body and soul , and Alice felt his hot tears dropping on her face as he made her no reply . 
Her faith was stronger than his , and putting up her waxen hand , she wiped his tears away , saying to him , `` We shall meet Marian again , I know , and then if you did anything naughty which made her go away , you can tell her you are sorry , and she 'll forgive you , for she loved you very much . '' 
More than once she asked him if he knew why Marian went away , and at last he made her answer , `` Yes , Alice , I do know , but I can not tell you now . 
Did you love her as Marian ought to be loved ? '' 
The large brown blind eyes looked earnestly into his face , and with that gaze upon him Frederic Raymond could not tell a lie , so he was silent , and Alice , feeling that she was answered , continued , `` But you would love her now if she 'd come back . '' 
Thoughts of Marian haunted him continually , and in his dreams he often heard again the wailing sound , which he knew must have been her cry when she learned how she had been deceived . 
Gradually , too , he began to miss her presence -- to listen for her girlish voice , her bounding step and merry laugh , which he had once thought rude . 
Her careful forethought for his comfort , too , he missed -- confessing in his secret heart at least that Redstone Hall was nothing without Marian . 
the lady asked , and Marian answered , `` Yes , very , very far , '' adding , as she remembered with a shudder the din and confusion of the larger cities , `` Is New York a heap noisier than Albany or Buffalo ? '' 
`` Once , when a child , '' said Marian , and the lady continued , `` You seem a mere child now . 
`` Yes , all I have in the world , and that is only one , '' sobbed Marian , her tears falling fast at words of sympathy . 
The lady was greatly interested in the child , as she thought her , and had she been going to New York would have still befriended her , but she left at Newburgh , and Marian was again alone . 
She had heard much of New York , but she had no conception of it -- and when at last she was there , and followed a group through the depot up to Broadway , her head grew dizzy and her brain whirled with the deafening roar . 
Cincinnati , Louisville , Buffalo and Albany combined were nothing to this , and in her confusion she would have fallen upon the pavement had not the crowd forced her along . 
The question was too preposterous to be heeded , even if it were heard , and the lady moved on , leaving Marian as ignorant as ever of Mrs. Burt 's whereabouts . 
After a time , a woman from the country , who had not yet been through the hardening process , listened to the question -- and finding that Mrs. Daniel Burt was no way connected with the Burts of Yates county , nor the Blodgetts of Monroe , replied that she was a stranger in the city , and knew no such person -- but pretty likely Marian would find it in the Directory -- and as a regiment of soldiers just then attracted her attention , she turned aside , while Marian , discouraged and sick at heart , kept on her weary way , knowing nothing where she was going , and , if possible , caring less . 
When she came opposite to Trinity Church , she sank down upon the step , and drawing her vail over her face , half wished that she might die and be buried there in the enclosure where she saw the November sunshine falling on the graves . 
And then she wondered if the roar of the great city did n't even penetrate to the ears of the sleeping dead , and , shudderingly , she said , `` Oh , I would so much rather be buried by the river at home in dear old Kentucky . 
Gradually , as her weariness began to abate , she grew interested in watching the passers-by , wondering what every body was going down that street for , and why they came back so quick ! 
Then she tried to count the omnibuses , thinking to herself , `` Somebody 's dead up town , and this is the procession . '' 
The deceased must have been a person of distinction , she fancied , for the funeral train seemed likely never to end . 
Poor Marian ! 
she knew but little of the great Babylon to which she had so recently come , and she thought it made up of carts , hacks , omnibuses and people -- all hurrying in every direction as fast as they could go . 
It made her feel dizzy and cross-eyed to look at them , and leaning back against the iron railing , she fell into a kind of conscious sleep , in which she never forgot for an instant the roar which troubled her so much , or lost the gnawing pain at her heart . 
In this way she sat for a long time , while hundreds and hundreds of people went by , some glancing sideways at her , and thinking she did not look like an ordinary beggar , while others did not notice her at all . 
At last , as the confusion increased , she roused up , staring about her with a wild , startled gaze . 
People were going home , and she watched them as they struggled fiercely and ineffectually to stop some loaded omnibus , and then rushed higher up to a more favorable locality . 
`` The funeral was over , '' she said . 
The omnibusses were most all returning , and though she had no idea of the lapse of time , she fancied that it might be coming night , and the dreadful thought stole over her -- `` What shall I do then ? 
Maybe I 'll go in the church , though , '' she added . 
`` Nobody , I am sure , will hurt me there , '' and she glanced confidingly at the massive walls which were to shield her from danger and darkness . 
And while she sat there thus , the night shadows began to fall -- the people walked faster and faster -- the omnibus drivers swore louder and longer -- the crowd became greater and greater -- and over Marian there stole a horrid dread of the hour when the uproar would cease -- when Wall street would be empty , the folks all gone , and she be there alone with the blear-eyed old woman who had seated herself near by , and seemed to be watching her . 
`` I will ask once more , '' she thought . 
And , throwing back her vail , she half rose to her feet , when a tall , disagreeable looking fellow bent over her and said -- `` What can I do for you , my pretty lass ? '' 
For an instant Marian 's heart stood still , for there was something in the rowdy 's appearance exceedingly repulsive , but when he repeated his question , she answered timidly , `` I want to find Mrs. Daniel Burt . '' 
Come with me and I 'll show you the way , '' and the great red , rough hand was about to touch the little slender white one resting on Marian 's lap , when a blow from a brawny fist sent the rascal reeling upon the pavement , while a round , good-humored face looked into Marian 's , and a kindly voice said , `` Did the villain insult you , little girl ? '' 
`` Yes -- I reckon not -- I do n't know , '' answered Marian , trembling with fright , while her companion continued , `` 'T is the first time he ever spoke civil to a woman then . 
Marian felt intuitively that hecould be trusted , and she sobbed aloud , `` I hav n't any home , nor friends , nor anything . '' 
said the young man , scanning her closely , `` you ai n't a beggar -- that 's as sure as my name is Ben Burt -- and what be you sittin ' here for , any way ? '' 
Marian did not heed his question , so eagerly did she catch at the name Ben Burt . 
`` Oh , sir , '' she exclaimed , grasping his arm , `` are you any way related to Mrs. Daniel Burt , who once lived with Colonel Raymond at Yonkers ? '' 
repeated Marian , `` that other man said just around the corner . 
`` Yeu tell , '' answered Ben , with a knowing wink , which however failed to enlighten Marian , who was too glad with having found a protector to ask many questions , and unhesitatingly taking Ben 's offered arm she went with him up the street , until she found the car he wished to take . 
When they were comfortably seated and she had leisure to examine him more closely , she found him to be a tall , athletic , good-natured looking young man , betraying but little refinement either in personal appearance or manner , but manifesting in all he did a kind , noble heart , which won her good opinion at once . 
Greatly he wondered who she was and whence she came , but he refrained asking her any questions , thinking he should know the whole if he waited . 
It seemed to Marian a long , long ride , and she was beginning to wonder if it would never end , when Ben touched her arm and signified that they were to alight . 
`` Come right down this street a rod or so and we 're there , '' said he , and following whither he led , Marian was soon climbing a long , narrow stairway to the third story of what seemed to her a not very pleasant block of buildings . 
But if it were dreary without , the sight of a cheerful blazing fire , which was disclosed to view as Ben opened a narrow door , raised her spirits at once , and taking in at a glance the rag carpet , the stuffed rocking chairs , the chintz-covered lounge , the neat-looking supper table spread for two , and the neater looking woman who was making the toast , she felt the pain at her heart give way a little , just a little , and bounding toward the woman , she cried , `` You do n't know me , I suppose . 
At the mention of Frederic , Marian gave a choking sob and replied : `` Colonel Raymond is dead , and Frederic -- oh , Mrs. Burt , please do n't ask me about him now , or I shall surely die . '' 
`` Oh , I do n't know , '' answered Marian , a death-like paleness overspreading her face ; `` not since yesterday , I reckon . 
and overcome with hunger , exhaustion and her late fright , Marian fainted in her chair . 
Taking her in his arms as if she had been an infant , Ben carried her to the spare room , which , in accordance with her New England habits , Mrs. Burt always kept for company , and there on the softest of all soft beds he laid her down ; then , while his mother removed her bonnet and shawl , he ran for water and camphor , chafing with his own rough fingers her little clammy hands , and bathing her forehead until Marian came back to consciousness . 
`` There , swaller some cracker and tea , and you 'll feel better directly , '' said Mrs. Burt ; and , like a very child , Marian obeyed , feeling that there was something delicious in being thus cared for after the dreadful days she had passed . 
There will be time enough to-morrow , '' continued Mrs. Burt , as she saw her about to speak ; and fixing her comfortably in bed , she went back to Ben , to whom she told all that she knew concerning Marian and the family with whom she had lived . 
By the time supper was over , Marian 's soft , regular breathing told that she was asleep , and taking the lamp in his hand , the curious Ben stole to see her . 
Her face was white as marble , and even in her sleep the tears dropped from her long eye-lashes , affecting Ben so strangely that his coat-sleeve was more than once called in requisition to perform the office of a handkerchief . 
You 've been misused the wust kind , '' he whispered , as with his great hand he brushed her tears away , and then went noiselessly out , leaving her to her slumbers . 
It was a deep , dreamless sleep which came to Marian that night , for her strength was utterly exhausted , and in the atmosphere of kindness surrounding her , there was something soothing to her irritated nerves . 
But when the morning broke and the roar of the waking city fell again upon her ear , she started up , and gazing about the room , thought , `` where am I , and what is it that makes my heart ache so ? '' 
Full soon she remembered what it was , and burying her face in the pillows , she wept again bitterly , wondering what they were doing far away at Redstone Hall , and if anybody but Alice was sorry she had gone . 
But this it was impossible for Marian to do . 
She could not lie there in that little room and listen to the din which began to produce upon her the same dizzy , bewildering effect it had done the previous day , when she sat on the pavement and saw the omnibuses go by . 
She must be up and tell the kind people her story , and then , if they said so , she would go away -- go back to those graves she had seen yesterday , and lying down in some hollow , where that horrid man and blear-eyed woman could not find her , she would die , and Frederic would surely never know what had become of her . 
Mrs. Burt 's first impulse was , that if she were Marian she would claim her property , though of course she would not live with Frederic . 
His mother wanted some one with her when he was gone , and Marian was sent to them by Providence . 
Any way , '' said he , `` she shall live with us a while , and we 'll see what turns up . 
Maybe this Fred 'll begin to like her now she 's gone . 
It 's nater to do so , and some day he 'll walk in here and claim her . '' 
This picture was not a displeasing one to Marian , who through her tears smiled gratefully upon Ben , mentally resolving that should she ever be mistress of Redstone Hall she should remember him . 
And thus it was arranged that Marian Grey , as she chose to be called , should remain where she was , for a time at least , and if no husband came for her , she should stay there always as the daughter of Mrs. Burt , whose motherly heart already yearned toward the unfortunate orphan . 
Particularly was this true of Ben , who in his treatment of Marian only acted out the impulse of nature ; if she had been aggrieved , he was the one to defend her , and if she bade him keep her secret , it was as safe with him as if it had never been breathed into his ear . 
But with Marian for company it would be different , and she welcomed her as warmly as Ben himself had done . 
`` You shall be my little girl , '' she said , laying her hand caressingly on the head of Marian , who began to think the world was not as cheerless as she had thought it was . 
Still the old dreary pain was in her heart -- a desolate , home-sick feeling , which kept her thoughts ever in one place and on one single object -- the place , Redstone Hall , and the object , Frederic Raymond . 
And as the days went by , the feeling grew into an intense , longing desire to see her old home once more -- to look into Frederic 's face -- to listen to his voice , and know if he were sorry that she was gone . 
This feeling Mrs. Burt did not seek to discourage , for though she was learning fast to love the friendless girl , she knew it would be better for her to be reconciled to Mr. Raymond , and when one day , nearly four weeks after Marian 's arrival , the latter said to her , `` I mean to write to Frederic and ask him to take me back , '' she did not oppose the plan , for she saw how the great grief was wearing the young girl 's life away , making her haggard and pale , and writing lines of care upon her childish face . 
That night there came to Marian a paper from Ben , who , having far outstaid his time , had returned the week before to Ware . 
Listlessly she tore open the wrapper , and glancing at the first page , was about throwing it aside , when a marked paragraph arrested her attention , and , with burning cheeks and fast-beating heart , she read that `` Frederic Raymond would gladly receive any information of a young girl who had disappeared mysteriously from Redstone Hall . '' 
she exclaimed , springing to her feet , `` I am going home -- back to Frederic . 
and she pointed out to Mrs. Burt the advertisement . 
Still , she would not dash Marian 's hopes at once , though she would save her from the cold reception she felt sure she would meet , should she return to Redstone Hall , unannounced . 
So , when the first excitement of Marian 's joy had abated , she said : `` I should write to Mr. Raymond , just as I first thought of doing . 
That `` if he wants you '' grated harshly on Marian 's ear ; but , after her past experience , she did not care to thrust herself upon him , unless sure that he wished it , and concluded to follow Mrs. Burt 's advice . 
Poor little Marian ! 
The pain in her heart was not so intense , and the noise in the street easier to bear after sending that letter , for hope softened them both , and whispered to her , `` he 'll let me come , '' and in a thousand different ways she pictured the meeting between herself and Frederic . 
Occasionally the thought intruded itself upon her , `` what if he bids me keep away , '' and then she said , `` I 'll do it if he does , and before seven years are gone , maybe I 'll be dead . 
She had great faith in the seven years , for Benhad said so , and Ben , who was very susceptible to female charms , believed it , too , and the thought of it was like a ray of sunshine in the dingy , noisome room where all day he worked , sometimes reckoning up how many monthsthere were in seven years -- then how many weeks -- then how many days , and finally calling himself a foolfor caring a thing about it . 
When the newspaper article came under his eye , the sunshine left the dirty room , and after he had sent the paper to Marian he cared but little how many months or weeks or days there were in seven years , and he felt angry at himself for having sweatso hard in making the computation ! 
And so , while Marian in the city waits and watches for the message which will , perhaps , bid her come back , and Ben , in the noisy factory , waits also for a message which shall say she has gone , and his mother is again alone , the letter travels on , and one pleasant afternoon , when the clerk at Cincinnati makes up the mail for Frankfort , he puts that important missive with the rest and sends it on its way . 
Isabel had heard Frederic speak of Marian , and when they were half way home , she put her head from the window and said to Phil , `` Where is the young girl who used to live with Colonel Raymond -- Marian was her name , I think ? '' 
`` Bless you , '' returned the negro , cracking his whip nervously , `` haint you hearn how she done got married to marster mighty nigh three weeks ago ? '' 
`` Strue as preachin ' , and a heap truer than some o n't , for I seen 'em joined with these very eyes , '' said Phil , and , glancing backward at the white face leaning from the window , he muttered , `` ` spects mebby she calkerlated on catchin ' him herself . 
Ki , would n't she and Dinah pull har though . 
`` Man -- sir '' -- said Mrs. Huntington , putting her bonnet out into the rain , `` is Mr. Frederic Raymond really married to that girl Marian ? '' 
She had surely heard from him that Marian was plain , and in fancy , she saw how she would overshadow her rival and make Frederic feel keenly the difference between them , and then she thought of the discarded Rudolph . 
If everything else should fail , she could win him back -- he had some money , and she would rather be his wife than nobody 's ! 
`` Wonder if she ` spects a body is gwine round the brook , '' muttered Phil , and as the carriage wheels were now safe from the water , he stopped and said to the indignant lady , `` mebby Miss would rather walk the rest of the way . 
Old Dinah , who saw the carriage in the distance , had said there was some one in it , and instantly Alice thought of Marian , and going out upon the piazza , she waited impatiently until Phil drove up to the door . 
`` There are four feet , '' she said , as the strangers came up the steps ; `` four feet , but none are Marian 's , '' and she was turning sadly away , when she accidentally trod upon the long skirt of Isabel , who , snatching it away , said angrily , `` child , what are you doing -- stepping on my dress ? '' 
`` Never you mind that she dragon , '' whispered Uncle Phil , thrusting into the child 's hand a paper of candy , which had the effect of consoling her somewhat , both for her disappointment and her late reproof . 
`` ` Spects the young one wants to be , if she ai n't , '' returned Phil , with a very expressive wink , which had the effect of enlightening Dinah with regard to his opinion . 
She must think I know nothin ' ` bout grarmar to talk in that kind of way , but she 's mistakened . 
he asked , in some surprise , and Dinah replied : `` Any way , that 's what she said -- the tall one , with great black eyes jest like coals of fire . 
Oh , why did she come to look at me in my misery ? '' 
Marian is dead ! 
-- drowned -- at least we think she must be , for she went away on our wedding night , and no trace of her can be found . '' 
`` I can not tell you why she went away , '' Frederic answered , `` but there was a reason for it , and it has cast a shadow over my whole life . '' 
`` Marian was a mere child , I had always supposed , '' suggested Isabel , anxious to get at the reason why he had so soon forgotten herself . 
asked Frederic , and upon Isabel 's replying that she did not , he briefly stated a few facts concerning his marriage , saying it was his father 's dying request , and he could not well avoid doing as he had done , even if he disliked Marian . 
`` But I did n't dislike her , '' he continued , and the hot blood rushed into his face . 
`` She was a gentle , generous hearted girl , and had she lived , I would have made her happy . '' 
It was strange how rapidly Isabel changed from a hard , defiant woman , to a soft , sparkling , beautiful creature , and when , in her plaid silk dress of crimson and brown , with her magnificent hair bound in heavy braids about her head , she came down to dinner , Aunt Dinah involuntarily dropped another courtesy , and whispered under her teeth , `` The Lord , if she ai n't quality after all . '' 
It would be inhospitable , he said , and when next morning she came down to breakfast , bright , fresh and elegant in her tasteful wrapper , he felt a pang , as he thought , `` had I done right , she might have been the mistress of Redstone Hall , '' but it could not be now , he said , even if Marian were dead , and all that day he struggled manfully between his duty and his inclination , while Isabel dealt out her highest card , ingrafting herself into the good graces of the Smitherses by speaking to them pleasant , familiar words , exalting herself in the estimation of the Higginses by her lofty , graceful bearing , and winning Dinah 's friendship by praising Victoria Eugenia , and asking if that fine looking man who drove the carriage was her husband . 
Then , in the evening , when the lamps were lighted in the parlor , she opened the piano and filled the house with the rich melody of her cultivated voice , singing a sad , plaintive strain , which reminded Alice of poor , lost Marian , and carried Frederic back to other days , when , with a feeling of pride , he had watched her snowy fingers as they gracefully swept the keys . 
He could not look at them now -- he dared not look at her , in her ripe glowing beauty , and he left the room , going out upon the piazza , where he wiped great drops of sweat from his face , and almost cursed the fate which had made it a sin for him to love the dark-haired Isabel . 
Dinah admired Isabel , but she could not forget Marian ; though like her sex , whether black or brown , she speculated upon the future , when `` Marster Frederic would be done mournin ' , '' and she wondered if `` old miss , '' meaning Mrs. Huntington , would think it necessary to stay there , too . 
This arrangement at first caused some gossip among the neighbors , who began to predict what the end would be , and , also , to assert more loudly than ever their belief that Marian was not dead . 
Thus comforted , Alice dried her tears , and hunting up the books from which she had once recited to Marian , she declared herself ready for her lessons at any time . 
`` I 'm thinking of Marian , and how she used to be with me . 
It 's just six weeks to-day since she went away . 
Oh , I wish she 'd come back . 
Do you believe she 's dead ? '' 
Isabel was interested in anything concerning Marian , and closing the book , she began to question the child , asking her among other things , if Marian did not leave a letter for Mr. Raymond , and if she knew what was in it . '' 
`` No one knows , '' returned the child ; `` he never told -- but here 's mine , '' and drawing from her bosom the soiled note , she passed it to Isabel , who scrutinized it closely , particularly the handwriting . 
`` Of course she 's dead , or she would have been heard from ere this , '' said she , passing the note back to Alice , who , not feeling particularly comforted , made but little progress in her studies that morning , and both teacher and pupil were glad when the lessons of the day were over . 
But she dared not , for her suspicion might be false ; she would see Alice 's note again , and seeking out the child she asked permission to take the letter which Marian had written . 
`` It is from her , but he shall never see it , never ! '' 
Three times she caught up the letter with the intention of breaking its seal , and as often threw it down , for , unprincipled as she was , she shrank from that act , and still , if she did not know the truth , she should go mad , she said , and pressing her hands to her forehead , she thought what the result to herself would be were Marian really alive . 
`` But she is n't , '' she exclaimed . 
But who was there in New York that wrote so much like her ? 
She wished she knew , and she might know , too , by opening the letter . 
If it was from a stranger , she could destroy it , and he , thinking it had been lost , would write again . 
She should die if she did n't know , and maybe she should die if she did . 
At all events , reality was more endurable than suspense , and glancing furtively around to make sure that no blind eyes were near , she snatched the letter from the table and broke the seal ! 
Even then she dared not read it , until she reflected that she could not give it to Frederic in this condition -- she might as well see what it contained ; and wiping the cold moisture from her face she opened it and read , while her flesh seemed turning to stone , and she could feel the horror creeping through her veins , freezing her blood and petrifying her very brain . 
Marian Lindsey lived!She was coming back again -- back to her husband , and back to the home which was hers . 
There was enough in the letter for her to guess the truth , and she knew why another had been preferred to herself . 
For a moment even her lip curled with scorn at what she felt was an unmanly act , but this feeling was soon lost in the terrible thought that Marian might return . 
she whispered , as her hard , black eyes fastened themselves again upon the page , blotted with Marian 's tears . 
`` Seven years -- seven years , '' she continued , `` I 've heard of that before , '' and into the wild tumult of her thoughts there stole a ray of hope . 
If she withheld the letter from Frederic , and she must withhold it now , he would never know what she knew . 
Possibly , too , Marian might die , and though she would have repelled the accusation , Isabel Huntington was guilty of murder in her heart , as she sat there alone and planned what she would do . 
It was worth trying for , and though she had but little hope of success , the beautiful demon bent her queenly head and tried to devise some means of effectually silencing Marian , so that if there really were anything in the seven years the benefit would accrue to her . 
`` She 's a litle silly fool , '' she said , `` and this Mrs. Daniel Burt she talked about is just as silly as herself . 
I may never marry Frederic , it is true , but I 'll be revenged on Marian . 
What business had she to cross my path , the little red-headed jade ! '' 
This she studied and imitated for half an hour , and at the end of that time wrote on the blank page of Marian 's letter , `` Isabel Huntington is now the mistress of Redstone Hall . '' 
`` That will keep her still , I reckon , '' she said , and taking a fresh envelope , she directed it to `` Mrs. Daniel Burt , '' as Marian had bidden Frederic do . 
`` 'T was a fortunate circumstance , her telling him that , for ` Marian Lindsey ' would have been observed at once , '' she thought ; and then , lest her resolution should fail her , she found Josh and bade him take the letter to the post-office at the Forks of Elkhorn not very far away . 
But it was not a dream , and Marian 's anguish was scarcely greater than her own at that moment , when she began to realize that Frederic and Redstone Hall were lost to her forever . 
There might be something in the seven years , but it was a long , dreary time to wait , with the ever-haunting fear that Marian might return , and she half wished she had not opened the letter . 
But her regrets were unavailing now , and resolving to guard her secret carefully and deny what she had done , if ever accused of it , she began to consider how she should hereafter demean herself toward Frederic . 
It would be terrible to have him making love to her , she thought , for she would be compelled to tell him no , and if another should become her rival , she could not stand quietly by and witness the unlawful deed . 
`` Oh , if I or Marian had never been born , this hour would not have come to me , '' she cried , burying her face in the pillows to shut out the fast increasing darkness which was so hateful to her . 
Already was she reaping the fruit of the transgression , and when an hour later she heard the voice of Frederic in the hall , she stopped her ears , and , burying her face still closer in the pillows , wished again that either Marian or herself had never seen the light of day . 
Allthe day long Frederic had thought of Marian -- thought of the little blue-eyed girl , who just six weeks before went away from him to die . 
Many , many times he said that to himself , and as often as he said it , he thought , `` perhaps she is not dead , '' until the belief grew strong in him that somewhere he should find her , that very day it might be . 
He wished he could , and take her back to Redstone Hall , where she would be a barrier between himself and the beautiful temptation which it was so hard for him to resist . 
`` It might have been , '' he thought sometimes to himself , but the time was past , and even if Marian were dead , he must not take another to share the wealth so generously given up . 
And Marian was dead , he had always believed until to-day , when she seemed to be so near , that on his return at night to Redstone Hall he had a half presentiment that he might find her there , or at least some tidings of her . 
All about the house was dark , but on the piazza a little figure was standing , and as its dim outline was revealed to him , he said , involnntarily : `` That may be Marian , and I am glad , or at least I will be glad , '' and he was hurrying on , when a light from the hall streamed out upon the figure , and he saw that it was Alice waiting for him . 
Alice 's heart was full that night , for accidentally she had heard old Hetty and Lyd discussing the probable result of Isabel 's sojourn among them , and the very idea shocked her , as if they had trampled on Marian 's grave . 
`` I 'll tell Frederic , '' said she to herself , `` and ask him is he going to marry her , '' and when after his supper he went into the library to read the letters which Mrs. Huntington told him were there , she followed him thither . 
`` I did n't use to , though -- till Marian went away . 
Frederic , Marian is n't dead ! '' 
I do n't mean me -- because I 'm a little blind girl -- but to love somebody and marry them with Marian alive ? '' 
I never thought before that Marian was n't dead , but I knew it then . 
I felt her right there with us , and I 've felt her ever since . 
Dinah , too , said it seemed to her just like Marian was alive , and that she hoped you would n't make -- perhaps I ought not to tell you , but you do n't care for Dinah -- she hoped you would n't make a fool of yourself . 
`` Did you love her before you married Marian ? '' 
There was silence a moment , and then Alice , who had been thinking of what he told her once before , said , interrogatively , `` Marian found it out , and that was why she thought you did n't love her and went away ? '' 
`` Do you think Isabel as good as Marian ? '' 
After a moment Alice spoke again : `` Frederic , do you believe Marian is dead ? '' 
Dinah says maybe she will , and that perhaps we sha n't know her , she 'll be so changed -- so handsome , '' and as if the power of prophecy were on her , Alice pictured a beautiful woman who might come to them sometime as their lost Marian , and Frederic , listening to her , felt more willing to promise than he had been before . 
A glow of hope was kindled within his own bosom , and when she finished he said to her : `` I will wait , Alice -- wait ten years for Marian . '' 
Marian was not dead to her , and so sure of it did she seem that when the interview was ended , and Frederic was left alone , he bowed his head reverently and said : `` If Marian be , indeed , alive , will the good Father send me some tidings of her , and so keep me from sin ? '' 
could the writing desk before him have told how only that afternoon there had lain upon its velvet cover a message from the lost one -- a sweet , child-like petition for him to take her back , even though he could not love her -- he would have gone for her then , and , bringing her to the home which was not his , but hers , he would have placed her between himself and the temptation , yielding to her all honor and respect until his heart should say it loved her . 
But the time was not yet , and he must suffer longer -- must pass through deeper waters ; while Marian , too , must be molded and changed into a bride who , far better than the queenly Isabel , could do the honors of Redstone Hall . 
Marian was sick . 
Strong excitement had worn her strength away , and since she had sent the letter to Frederic , her restless anxiety for the answer had made her so weak that she kept her bed nearly all the time , counting the days which must elapse ere she could possibly hope to hear , and then , when the full time was out , bidding Mrs. Burt wait one more day before she went to the office , so as to be sure and get it . 
Alice , too , would be delighted , and kiss her so many times ; and then she wondered if Frederic would n't kiss her , too -- she thought he might just once , she 'd been so long away , and she said to herself that `` she would draw back a little , and let him know she was n't so very anxious . '' 
Poor Marian , how little was she prepared for the cruel blow awaiting her ! 
The pies were made at last , as was the ginger-bread and crispy snaps ; the apple dumplings , Marian 's favorite dessert , were steaming on the stove ; the litter was cleared away , the carpet swept , the oil-cloth washed , the chairs set back ; and then exchanging her work dress for a more respectable delaine , Mrs. Burt put over the kettle to boil , `` for after her wet walk , she should want a cup of tea , '' she said , and , leaving Marian to watch the pie baking in the oven , she started on her errand . 
`` I mean to have the table ready when she gets back , '' said Marian -- `` for if I do n't make her think I 'm well , she wo n't let me start so soon ; '' and , exerting all strength , she set the table for dinner in the neatest possible manner , even venturing upon the extravagance of bringing out the best white dishes , which Mrs. Burt only used on great occasions . 
`` When I get some , I 'll send her a new set with gilt bands , '' the little girl said , as she arranged the cups , and then stepped back to witness the effect . 
I wish she 'd come , '' she continued , glancing at the clock ; but it was not time yet , and , resuming her rocking-chair , she tried to wait patiently . 
The steam from the dumplings , which Marian thought she should enjoy so much , filled the room with a sweet , sickly odor , and for many , many years she remembered now faint it made her feel . 
But 't was a pleasant faintness now ; everything was pleasant , for was n't she going home , back to Redstone Hall -- back to Frederic , who , if he did n't love her now , would learn to love her , for Mrs. Burt said so ; Mrs. Burt , who knew almost as much as Dinah , and who , even while she thought of her , was coming up the narrow stairs . 
Marian heard her put her dripping umbrella beside the door , but for her life she could not move . 
If she should be disappointed after all , she said , and she tried to see how many she could count before she knew for certain . 
she attempted to say , when Mrs. Burt came in , but she could not articulate a word , and the good lady , wishing to tease her a little , leisurely took off her overshoes , hung up her shawl , wiped her damp bonnet with a handkerchief , and looked at the dumplings and then said , as indifferently as if the happiness of a young life was not to be crushed by what she had in her pocket , `` it rains awfully down street ! '' 
and Marian 's blue eyes looked dark with excitement . 
`` Forks of Elkhorn , '' cried Marian , snatching at the letter . 
Dear Frederic , he did n't wait a minute before he wrote , '' and she pressed to her lips the handwriting of Isabel Huntington ! 
Was there a film before Marian 's eyes ? 
Was she growing blind , or did she recognize her own letter -- the one she had sent to Redstone Hall ? 
It was the same -- for it said `` Dear Frederic '' at the top , and `` Marian '' at the bottom ! 
And he had returned it to her unanswered -- not a word -- not a line -- nothing but silence , as cold , as hard and as terrible as the feeling settling down on Marian 's heart . 
But yes -- there was one line -- only one , and it read -- oh , horror , could it be that he would mock her thus -- that he would tear out her bleeding heart and trample it beneath his feet , by offering her this cruel insult . 
This was the drop in the brimming bucket , and if she had suffered death when the great sorrow came upon her once before , she suffered more now a hundred fold . 
In her ignorance she fancied they were married , for how else could Isabel be mistress there , and she comprehended at once the shame -- the disgrace such a proceeding would bring to Frederic , and the wrong , the dishonor , the insult it brought to her . 
There were purple spots upon her flesh , which seemed wasting away while she sat there , and a note of agony , rarely heard by human ear , was in her voice , as she cried , `` No , no , no -- it is too soon -- too soon -- anything but that , '' and the little Marian who , half an hour before , had heard the ticking of the clock and listened to the rain , lay in the arms of Mrs. Burt , a white , motionless thing , unconscious of pain , unconscious of everything . 
Poor Marian ! 
For days she lay in the same death-like stupor , and when at last she roused from it , 't was only to tear her hair and rave in wild delirium . 
At first , Mrs. Burt , who had examined the letter , thought of writing to Frederic and telling him the result of his cruel message , the truth of which she did not believe ; but she seldom acted without advice , so she wrote first to Ben , who came quickly , crying like a very child , and wringing his great rough hands when he saw the swaying , tossing form upon the bed and knew that it was Marian . 
It was a long and terrible sickness which came to Marian , and when the delirium was on , the very elements of her nature seemed changed . 
For her hair she conceived an intense loathing ; and clutching at her long tresses , she would tear them from her head and shake them from her fingers , whispering scornfully : `` Go , you vile red things ! 
He hates you , and so do I. '' `` Better shave the hull concern and not let her yank it out like that , '' said Ben ; and when she became more and more ungovernable , he passed his arms around her and held fast her little hands , while her head was shorn of the locks once so displeasing to Frederic Raymond . 
Poor little picked bird , '' he would say as he watched by her side and listened to her moaning cries for home , `` you 'll be out of your misery afore long , and go to a ` nough sight better hum than Red stun Hall ; but I hev my doubts ` bout meetin ' him there . 
This , however , did not lessen Ben 's attentions in the least , or stay his tears when he thought that she would die . 
This long speech relieved Ben somewhat , and fully determined to carry out his promise , he staid patiently by Marian , nor experienced one feeling of regret when he heard that , owing to his prolonged absence , his place in Ware had been given to another . 
But this could not be , and so , day after day the heavy , incessant roar came through the curtained window into the darkened room , where Marian lay moaning in her pain . 
Once in her unconsciousness she folded meekly her thin hands and prayed , `` Will God stop that noise and let me sleep just once ? '' 
then with an expression of childish trust upon her face , she said to those around her , `` He willstop it to-morrow , I reckon . '' 
And when the winter snows all were fallen , and the early March sun shone upon the kitchen walls , the to-morrowso much longed for came , and Marian woke at last to consciousness . 
She was out of danger , the physician said , though it might be long ere her health was fully restored . 
To Marian , this announcement brought but little joy . 
`` She had hoped to die , '' she said , `` and thus be out of the way . '' 
and then she spoke of Redstone Hall , asking if any tidings had come from there since the dreadful message she had received . 
`` Marian , '' said Ben , a little impatiently , `` I 'm naturally a fool , so every body says , but I 've sense enough to know that Mr. Raymond never went and married that woman so quick after you came away ; ` tai n't reasonable at all . 
Marian 's face was whiter than ever when Ben finished speaking , and a bright red spot burned on her cheek as she gasped , `` You did n't , -- you ca n't believe she 's there and not his wife . 
`` Oh , I wish I knew , '' said Marian , and Ben replied , `` Would you rest any easier nights if you did ? '' 
`` You might write , '' suggested Mrs. Burt ; but Marian shook her head , saying , `` I wrote once , and you know my success . '' 
`` You certainly would n't go back , '' continued Mrs. Burt ; and Marian answered indignantly , `` Never ! 
It is what anybody would have done , '' answered Mrs. Burt , and , changing the subject entirely , Marian rejoined , `` Oh , I do wish I knew about this Isabel . ' 
`` Oh , I wish you would , '' said Marian , adding in the same breath , `` what will you do , if you find him the husband of Isabel ? '' 
Honest , though , '' he continued , as he saw her look of alarm ; `` if she ishis wife , which ai n't at all likely , 't is because he s ` posed you 're dead , but he knows better now , and I shall tell the neighbors that you 're alive and breathin ' , and they can do with him what they choose -- and if they ai n't married , nor ai n't nothin ' , I 'll just do what you say . '' 
`` Come back , and do n't tell Frederic you ever saw or heard of me , '' said Marian . 
To Mrs. Burt this project seemed a wild and foolish one , but she rarely opposed her son , and when se saw that he was determined , she said nothing , but helped him all she could . 
`` You 'll be wantin ' to send some jimcrack to that blind gal , I guess , '' he said to Marian one day , and she replied , `` I wish I could , but I hav n't anything , and besides you must n't tell her of me . '' 
Frederic would know it at once , '' and Marian shook her head ruefully , but Ben persisted . 
The result proved his words correct , for when a few days after he brought home the little bracelet , which was fastened with a neat golden clasp , Marian exclaimed with delight at the soft beauty of her hair : `` Darling Alice , '' she cried , kissing the tiny ornament , `` I wish she could know that my lips have touched it -- that it once grew on my head -- but it would n't be best . 
So cheer up a bit and grow fat , while I 'm gone , for I want you to be well when I come back , so as to go to school and get to be a great scholar , that Mr. Raymond wo n't be ashamed on when the right time comes , '' and Ben spoke as cheerfully as if within his heart there was no grave where during the weary nights when he watched with Marian he buried his love for her , and vowed to think of her only as a cherished sister . 
Marian smiled pleasantly upon him , watching him with interest as he made up his pack , consisting of laces , ribbons , muslin , handkerchiefs , combs and jewelry , a little real , and a good deal brass , `` for the niggers , '' he said . 
Many were the charges she gave him concerning the blacks , telling him which ones to notice particularly , so as to report to her . 
Marian had the utmost confidence in Ben 's success , and though she knew she should be lonely when he was gone , she was glad when , at last , the morning came for him to leave them . 
Ben , too , was equally delighted , for the novelty lent a double charm to the project ; and , bidding his mother and Marian good-by , he gathered up his large boxes , and whistling a lively tune , by way of keeping up his spirits , started for Kentucky . 
Joshhe identified by his name , and he was wondering at Marian 's taste in caring to hear from him , when Frederic appeared , and all else was forgotten in his eagerness to inspect the man `` who could make a gal bite her tongue in two and yank her hair out by the roots , all for the love of him . '' 
It was not needful for Mr. Raymond to say , `` Alice , here is a peddler come to stay all night , '' for Ben knew it was the blind girl , and his heart gave a great throb when he saw her sitting there so beautiful , so helpless , and so lonely , too , for he almost knew that she was thinking of Marian , and he longed to take her in his arms and tell her of the lost one . 
Here 's a bracelet that ca n't be beat , '' and he held up to view Marian 's soft hair , which , in the bright firelight , looked singularly beautiful . 
If Marian goes to school , as I mean she shall , she 'll need a lot of money , and what I get out o ' him is clear gain , '' he pocketed the piece , and the bracelet belonged to Alice . 
The brown eyes flashed up into Ben 's face , and the blood rushed to Alice 's cheek , as she replied `` Me not love Marian ! 
Oh , I loved her so much ! '' 
The right chord was touched at last , and in her own way Alice told the sad story -- how Marian had left them on her bridal night , and though they searched for her everywhere , both in the river and through the country , no trace of her could be found , and the conviction was forced upon them that she was dead . 
I used to , though , but now it seems just like she would come back , '' and turning her face more fully toward him , Alice told how she had loved the lost one , and how each day she prayed that she might come home to them again . 
`` I do n't know as she was pretty , '' she said , `` but she was so sweet , so good , and I 'm so lonesome without her , '' and down Alice 's cheeks the big tears rolled , while Ben 's kept company with them and fell upon her hands . 
she asked , shaking the round drops off and wondering why a perfect stranger should care so much for Marian . 
For a time longer he talked with her , treasuring up blessed words of comfort for the distant Marian , and learning also that Alice was sure Frederic would never marry again until certain of Marian 's death . 
He might like Isabel , she admitted , but he would not dare make her his wife till he knew for true what had become of Marian . 
`` He jest writ her that last insultin ' thing to kill her out and out ; but he did n't come it , and till he knows he did , he dassent do nothin ' . '' 
Frederic , when nobody knew whether Miss Marian was dead , or not . '' 
This indignity was reported to Frederic , who reproved old Dinah , sharply ; whereupon , she turned toward him , and , to use her favorite expression , `` gin him a piece of her mind . '' 
`` 'T was a burnin ' shame , '' she said , `` and it mortified her een-a-most to death to see the trollop a tryin ' to set to marster , when nobody know 'd for sartin if his fust wife was dead , '' `` Marster 's jest as fast as she , '' interposed Hetty , who seldom agreed with Dinah . 
He done told Alice so , and she told me ; '' and then Dinah launched out into praises of the lost Marian , exalting her so highly that Ben tossed into her lap a pair of ear-rings which she had greatly admired . 
Dinah cast an exulting glance at Hetty , who , nothing daunted , came forward and said : `` Miss Marian was as likely a gal as thar was in Kentuck , and she , for one , should be as glad to see her back as some o ' them that made sich a fuss about it . '' 
` Spects how she done forgot whar she was raised , '' and Hetty returned to the kitchen a warmer adherent of Marian than Dinah had ever been . 
He had ascertained that no one had the slightest suspicion of the reason why Marian went away ; that both Frederic and Isabel seemed unhappy ; that Dinah and Hetty , too , believed `` thar was somethin' warin ' on thar minds ; '' that Frederic was discontented , and talked seriously of leaving Redstone Hall in care of an overseer , and moving , in the Autumn to to his residence on the Hudson ; that Hetty hoped he would , and Dinah hoped he would n't , `` ` case if he did , it would be next to impossible to get a stroke o ' work out o ' them lazy Higginses . '' 
Marian , he knew , was anxious to hear of his success , and not willing to keep her waiting longer than was necessary , he determined to return at once . 
Marianwas sitting by the window of her little room , looking out into the busy street below , and thinking how differently New York seemed to her now from what it did that dreary day when she wandered down Broadway , and wished that she could die . 
She was getting accustomed to the city roar , and the sounds which annoyed her so much at first did not trouble her as they once had done . 
Still there was the same old pain at her heart -- a restless , longing desire to hear from home , and know if what she feared were true . 
She had counted the days of Ben 's absence , and she knew it was almost time for his return . 
She did not expect him to-day , however , and she paid no attention to the heavy footstep upon the stairs , neither did she hear the creaking of the door ; but when Mrs. Burt exclaimed , `` Benjamin Franklin ! 
and Marian trembled with excitement . 
was Marian 's next question , asked so mournfully that Ben replied : `` A body 'd s ` pose you was sorry it war n't the truth he writ . '' 
`` I am glad it is not true , '' returned Marian , `` but it hurts me so to lose confidence in one I love . 
fairly screamed Marian . 
And Marian grew as white as Ben had described Frederic to be . 
Thus re-assured , Marian composed herself and listened , while Ben narrated every particular of his recent visit to Redstone Hall . 
Seems like a story , them big housen way off among the trees , with the whitewashed cabins round 'em lookin ' for all the world like a camp-meetin ' in the woods -- '' `` Yes , yes , '' interrupted Marian ; `` but Frederic -- wo n't you ever reach him ? '' 
`` Not till I tell you about the dogs , and that jawbreakin ' chap they call Josh , with his cow hides , big as a scow-boat , I 'll bet , '' was Ben 's answer ; and finding it useless to hurry him , Marian summoned all her patience and waited while he waded through his introduction to the blacks , his attempt to be more of a Yankee than he really was , his sliver in his thumb , and , finally his addressing Frederic as Square and inquiring for his wife ! 
Marian was all attention now , and held her breath , lest she should lose a single word . 
`` I never supposed they 'd think me drowned when I dropped my glove and handkerchief , '' said Marian . 
`` Oh , I hope not -- at least , not yet -- not till the time you speak of , '' said Marian , who had listened eagerly to Ben 's suggestion , and already felt that there was hope for her in the future . 
She would study so hard , she thought , and learn so fast , and if she only could be thought handsome , or even decent-looking , she would be satisfied , but that was impossible , she feared . 
She did not know that , as Ben had said , the severe illness through which she had passed had laid the foundation for a softer , more refined style of beauty than she would otherwise have reached . 
Her entire constitution seemed to have undergone a change , and now , with hope to buoy her up , she grew stronger , healthier , and , as a natural consequence , handsomer each day . 
She could not erase from her memory the insult Frederic had offered her , by writing what she believed he did , but her affection for him was strong enough to overlook even that , and she was willing to wait and labor years if at the end of that time she could hope to win his love . 
At first she was subject to many annoyances , for , as was quite natural , her companions inquired concerning her standing , and when they learned that her aunt was a sewing woman , and that the queer , awkward fellow who came with her the first day was her cousin and a peddler , they treated her slightingly , and laughed at her plain dress . 
But Marian did not care . 
One thought -- one feeling alone actuated her ; to make herself something of which Frederic Raymond should not be ashamed was her aim , and for this she studied early and late , winning golden laurels in the opinion of her teachers , and coming ere long to be respected and loved by her companions , who little suspected that she was the heiress of untold wealth . 
Thus the Summer and a part of the Autumn passed away , and when the semi-annual examination came , Marian Grey stood first in all her classes , acquitting herself so creditably and receiving so much praise , that Ben , who chanced to be present , was perfectly overjoyed , and evinced his pleasure by shedding tears , his usual way of expressing feeling . 
From this time forward Marian 's progress was rapid , until even she herself wondered how it were possible for her to learn so fast when she had formerly cared so little for books . 
Hope , and a joyful anticipation of what would possibly be hers in the future , kept her up and helped her to endure the mental labors which might otherwise have overtaxed her strength . 
Gradually , too , the old soreness at her heart wore away , and she recovered in a measure her former light-heartedness , until at last her merry laugh was often heard ringing out loud and clear just as it used to do at home in days gone by . 
Very anxiously Ben watched her , and when on his return from his excursions he found her , as he always did , improved in looks and spirits , he rubbed his hands together and whispered to himself , `` She 'll set up for a beauty , yet , and no mistake . 
He did not always express these thoughts to Marian , but the little mirror which hung on the wall in her room sometimes whispered to her that the face reflected there was not the same which had looked at her so mournfully on that memorable night when she had left her pillow to see what her points of ugliness were ! 
The one which she had thought the crowning defect of all had certainly disappeared . 
Her red curls were gone , and in their places was growing a mass of soft wavy hair , which reminded her of the auburn tress she had so much admired and prized , because it was her mother 's . 
She had no means of knowing how nearly they were alike , for the ringlet was far away , but by comparing her present short curls with those which had been shorn from her head , she saw there was a difference , and she felt a pardonable pride in brushing and cultivating her young hair , which well repaid her labor , growing very rapidly and curling anout her forehead in small , round rings , which were far from unbecoming . 
Still , he was their guest , and she would not treat him uncivilly , so she bade her son to take him to his room , where he lay in the same deep , stupid sleep , breathing so loudly that he could be plainly heard in the adjoining room , where Marian and Ben were talking of the house at Yonkers which was not finished yet , and would not be ready for the family until sometime in May . 
Suddenly the loud breathing in the bed-room ceased -- the stranger was waking up ; but Ben and Marian paid no heed , and talked on as freely as if there were no greedy ears drinking in each word they said -- no wild-eyed man leaning on his elbow and putting together , link by link , the chain of mystery until it was as clear to him as noonday . 
It was Marian who spoke , and the words she said were , `` I wonder if Isabel Huntington will come with Frederic to Yonkers . '' 
and sitting up in bed , he listened until he learned what they knew of her , and learned , too , that the young girl whom Ben Burt called his cousin was the runaway bride from Redstone Hall . 
Isabel , too , was freely discussed , Miss Agnes saying that Mr. Raymond would undoubtedly marry her , could he know that Marian was dead , but as there were some who entertained doubts upon that point he would hardly dare take any decisive step until uncertainty was made sure . 
Assuming an air of indifference to everything around him , he sauntered out to breakfast , and pretended to eat , while his eyes rested almost constantly on Marian . 
She was very young , he thought , and far prettier than Agnes Gibson had represented her to be . 
I should of writ soonner only her sicknes hindered me about gettin reddy for a journey ime goin to take my only Brother lives in scotland and ime goin out to live with him i was most reddy when Marian took sick if she had lived she was coming back to you I bleave and now that shes ded ime going rite of in the -- which sales tomorrough nite else ide ask you to come down and see where she died and all about it . 
i made her as comfitable as I could and hopin you wouldnt take it to hard for Deth is the Lot of all i am your most Humble Servant `` There , '' soliloquized Rudolph , reading over the letter . 
He knows Marian would not attempt to deceive him thus , and he will , undoubtedly , think old Mrs. Green some good soul , who dosed the patient with saffron tea , and then saw her decently interred ! 
He would open an office in the city , and if possible earn his own living , so as not to spend more of Marian 's fortune than was necessary . 
It was Marian 's seventeenth birth-day , and he was thinking of her , wondering what she would have been had she lived to see this day . 
She was surely dead , he thought , or some tidings of her would have come to him ere this , and when he remembered how gentle , how pure and self-denying her short life had been , he said involuntarily , `` Poor Marian -- she deserved a better fate , and should she come back to me again I would prove to her that I am not all unworthy of her love . '' 
was Ferderic 's mental query , and tearing open the wrapper he drew nearer to him the lamp and read , while there crept over him a nameless terror as if even while he was thinking of the lost , the grave had opened at his feet and shown him where she lay ; not in the moaning river -- not in the deep , dark woods , nor on the western prairies , as he had sometimes feared , but far away in the great city , where there was no one to pity -- no eye to weep for her save that of the rude woman who had written him the letter . 
There Marian had suffered and died for him . 
His Marian -- his young girl-wife ! 
She had remembered him to the last , `` forgiving all his sins , '' the woman said , and knowing how much those few words meant , he said again , `` Poor Marian , '' just as the door opened and Alice came slowly in . 
Taking her on his lap , and laying his burning cheek against her cool forehead , Frederic said to her very tenderly and low : `` Alice , poor Marian is dead ! 
`` Not one , '' was his reply , and with quivering lips the heart-broken child continued , `` Marian sent no message for poor blind Alice to remember -- she never thought of me who loved her so much . 
Rudolph McVicar did not know how strong was the affection between those two young girls , or he would surely have sent a message to one who seemed almost a part of Marian herself , and it was this very omission which finally led the close reasoning child to doubt the truth of the letter . 
But she did not doubt it now . 
Marian was really dead to her , and for a long time she sat with Frederic , saying nothing , but by her silence manifesting to him how great was her grief at this sudden bereavement . 
At last remembering her errand , she told him why she had come , and asked what she should say to Isabel . 
To her the night and the day were the same , and ordinarily it mattered not whether there were lamps in the hall or not , but now , as she passed from the library into the adjoining room , there came over her a feeling of such utter loneliness and desolation that she turned back and said to Frederic : `` Will you go with me up the stairs , for now that Marian is dead , the night is darker than it ever was before . '' 
The negress accordingly obeyed the orders , and six long curls were streaming down the lady 's back , while a seventh was wound around the hissing iron in close proximity to her ear , when Alice came in , and hurrying up to her side , began : `` Oh , Miss Huntington , poor , dear Marian was n't dead all the time they thought she was . 
She was in New York , with Mrs. -- '' She did not finish the sentence ; for , feeling certain that her treachery was about to be disclosed , the guilty Isabel jumped so suddenly as to bring the hot iron directly across her ear and a portion of her forehead . 
It was rather the utter sense of desolation , the feeling that her last hope had drifted away with the certainty of Marian 's death , and for a time she wept on passionately ; while Isabel , with a hurricane in her bosom , walked the floor , wondering if her perfidy would ever be discovered , and feeling that she cared but little now whether it were , or not . 
Suspense was terrible , and when the violence of Alice 's sobs had subsided , she said to her : `` Where is Marian , and when is she coming home ? '' 
`` She ca n't come back , for she 's dead now , Marian is ; '' and Alice covered her face again with her hands . 
There , dry your eyes , and tell me all about poor Marian . 
When did she die , and where ? '' 
It would be proper , too , for her to commence the consoling process at once , by expressing her sympathy ; and leaving Alice alone she went to the library where Frederic still was sitting , so absorbed in his own sad reflections that he did not observe her approach until she said , `` Alice tells me you have heard from Marian , '' then he started suddenly , and turning toward her , answered , `` Yes , you can read what is written here if you like , '' and he passed her McVicar 's letter . 
`` This is some new acquaintance Marian picked up , '' she thought . 
`` The woman speaks of having known her but a short time . 
Probably she left Mrs. Daniel Burt and stumbled upon Sarah Green , '' and with an exultant smile upon her beautiful face , she put the letter down , and laying her hand very lightly on Frederic 's shoulder , said , `` I am sorry for you , Frederic , though it is better , of course , to know just what did become of the poor girl . '' 
In the kitchen the news of Marian 's certain death was received with noisy demonstrations -- old Dinah and Hetty trying hard to outdo each other , and see which should shed the most and the biggest tears . 
He liked Miss Marian as well as anybody , but he did up his mournin ' them times that he wet hisself to the skin a tryin ' to fish her out of the river . 
He thought his heart would bust then , though he knew all the time she was n't thar , and he told 'em so , too . 
He knew she 'd run away to New York , and he allus s ` posed they 'd hear she died summers at the South . 
He could tell by his feelin 's when anything was gwine to happen , and for more 'n a week back he 'd had it on his mind that Miss Marian was dead -- they could n't fool him ! '' 
Thus two or three weeks went by , and as nothing occurred to cause Dinah immediate alarm , her fears gradually subsided , until at last she forgot them altogether , while even Marian ceased to be a daily subject of conversation . 
Once he thought of going to New York to make some inquiries , and if possible find Marian 's grave , but when he reflected that Sarah Green was on the ocean , even before her letter reached Kentucky , he decided to defer the matter until their removal to Yonkers , which was to take place about the middle of May . 
People are already talking about my living here with you ; and now poor Marian is dead and you are a widower , it will be tenfold worse . 
He complied with her request , and when he had finished , the child continued , `` If Marian had really died , would n't she have sent some message to me , and would n't that woman have told us how she happened to be way off there , and all about it ? '' 
`` If Marian really died ! '' 
`` Yes , '' returned the child , `` Marian loved me most as well as she did you , and she surely would have talked of me and sent me some word ; then , too , is there much difference between scarlet fever and canker-rash ? 
`` Marian had the scarlet fever , and I , too , just after I came here , '' was Alice 's next remark . 
and the blind eyes looked up at Frederic , as if sure that this last argument at least were proof conclusive of Marian 's existence . 
Marian is alive , I almost know . '' 
`` Must you see her dead body , to be convinced ? '' 
She had thought a great deal about the letter , wondering why Marian had failed to speak of her , and at last rejecting it as an impossibility . 
Suddenly , too , she remembered that once , when she and Marian were sick , she heard some of the neighbors speak of their disease as scarlet fever , while others called it the canker-rash ; and all united in saying they could have it but once . 
This had led to inquiries of Dinah , and had finally resulted in her conviction that Marian might possibly be living . 
Full of this new idea , she had hastened to Frederic , and accidentally overheard what he was saying to Isabel . 
She comprehended it , too , and knew that but for her unexpected presence he would , perhaps , have asked the lady to be his wife , and she felt again as if Marian were there urging her to stand once more between Frederic and temptation . 
All this she told to him , and the proud , haughty man , who would have spurned a like interference from any other source , listened patiently to the pleadings of the childish voice , which said to him so earnestly : `` Do n't let Isabel be your wife ! '' 
he asked ; and when she replied , `` She is n't good , '' he questioned her further as to the cause of her dislike -- `` was there really a reason , or was it mere prejudice ? '' 
Marian is dead . 
`` May be she is n't , '' was Alice 's reply , `` and if she is , we shall both feel better , if you go and see . 
It wo n't take long , and if you find she is really dead , I 'll never speak another naughty word of Isabel , but try to love her just as I want to love your wife . 
And while he waited thus , and rumor , with her lying tongue , told each day some fresh falsehood of `` that marriage in high life , '' Frederic Raymond went on his way , and with each milestone passed , drew nearer and nearer to the lost one -- the Marian who would stand between him and Isabel . 
`` Marian , '' said Ben , one pleasant April morning , `` Frederic 's house is finished in tip-top style , and if you say so , we 'll go out and take a look . 
`` Oh , I 'd like it so much , '' returned Marian , `` but what if I should fall upon Frederic ? '' 
Marian did not hesitate long ere deciding to go , and in a few moments they were in the street . 
As they were passing the -- Hotel , Ben suddenly left her , and running up the steps spoke to one of the servants with whom he was acquainted . 
Marian shuddered involuntarily , and without knowing why , felt a deep interest in the stranger , thinking how terrible it was to be sick and alone in a crowded , noisy hotel . 
she asked , and Ben replied , `` No , ten times wus -- he 'll die most likely . 
The trip to Yonkers was a pleasant one , for to Marian it seemed like going home , and when , after reaching the station , they entered the lumbering stage and wound slowly up the long , steep hill , she recognized many familiar way marks , and drawing her vail over her face , wept silently as she remembered all she had passed through since the night when Col. Raymond first took her up that same long hill , and told her by the way , of his boy Frederic , who would be delighted with a sister . 
The house itself was greatly changed , but the view it commanded of the river and the scenery beyond was the same , and leaning against a pillar Marian tried to fancy that she was a child again and listening for the bold footsteps of the handsome , teasing boy , once her terror and her pride . 
But all in vain she listened : the well-remembered foot-fall did not come : the handsome boy was not there , and even had he been , she would scarcely have recognized him in the haughty , elegant young man , her husband . 
Yes , he was her husband , and she repeated the name to herself , and when at last Ben touched her on the shoulder , saying , `` I have told Miss Russell my sister was here , and she says you can go over the house , '' she started as if waking from a dream . 
`` Let us go through the garden first , '' she said , as she led the way to the maple tree where summers before che had built her little play-house , and where on the bark , just as high as his head then came , the name of Frederic was cut . 
Far below it , and at a point which her red curls had reached , there was another name -- her own -- and Frederic 's jack-knife had made that , too , while she stood by and said to him , `` I wish I was Marian Raymond , instead of Marian Lindsey . '' 
How distinctly she remembered the characteristic reply : `` If you should happen to be my wife , you would be Marian Raymond ; but pshaw , I shall marry a great deal prettier woman than you will ever be , and you may live with us if you want to , and take care of the children . 
She had not thought of this speech in years , but it come back to her vividly now , as did many other things which had occurred there long ago . 
Within the house everything was changed , but they had no trouble in identifying the different rooms , and she lingered long in the one she felt sure was intended for Frederic himself , sitting in the chair where she knew he would often sit , and wondering if , while sitting there , he would ever think of her . 
Perhaps he might be afraid of meeting her accidentally in New York , and so he would seldom come there ; or , if he did , it would be after dark , or when she was not in the street , and thus she should possibly never see him , as she hoped to do . 
The thought was a sad one , and never before had the gulf between herself and Frederic seemed so utterly impassible as on that April morning when , in his room and his arm chair , the girl-wife sat and questioned the dark future of what it had in store for her . 
Once she was half tempted to leave some momento -- something which would tell him she had been there . 
She spurned the idea as soon as formed . 
She would not intrude herself upon him a second time , and rising at last , she arranged the furniture more to her taste , changed the position of a picture , moved the mirror into a perfect angle , set Frederic 's chair before the window looking out upon the river , and then , standing in the door , fancied that she saw him , with his handsome face turned to the light , and his rich brown hair shading his white brow . 
At his feet , and not far away was a little stool , and if she could only sit there once , resting her head upon his knee and hear him speaking to her kindly , affectionately , she felt that she would gladly die , and leave to another the caresses she could never hope to receive . 
Isabel 's chamber was visited next , and Marian 's would have been less than a woman 's nature could she have looked , without a pang , upon the costly furniture and rare ornaments which had been gathered there . 
In the disposal of the furniture there was a lack of taste -- a decidedly Mrs. Russell air ; but Marian had no wish to interfere . 
There was something sickening in the very atmosphere of her rival 's apartment , and with a long , deep sigh , she turned away . 
Opening the door of an adjoining chamber , she stood for a moment motionless , while her lips moved nervously , for she knew that this was Alice 's room . 
Here too , she tarried long , gazing , through blinded tears , upon the little rocking-chair just fitted to Alice 's form , looping up the soft lace custains , brushing the dust from the marble mantle , and patting lovingly the snowy pillows , for the sake of the fair head which would rest there some night . 
`` No , no , not for the world , leave them as they are , '' and Marian spoke so earnestly that the old lady promised compliance with her request . 
`` Be you that Yankee peddler 's sister , '' she asked , as she followed Marian down the stairs . 
`` I believe I do not resemble him much , '' was Marian 's evasive answer , as with a farewell glance at the old place , she bade Mrs. Russell good-by and went with Ben to the gate where the stage was waiting to take them back to the depot . 
It was dark when they reached New York , and as they passed the -- Hotel a second time , Marian spoke of the sick man , and wondered how he was . 
`` But he 's something to somebody , '' returned Marian , and as she followed on after Ben , her thoughts turned continually upon him , wondering if he had a mother -- a sister -- or a wife , and if they knew how sick he was . 
She was to be married soon , and though her destination was a log house in the West , and her bridal trousseauconsisted merely of three dresses -- a silk , a delaine and a calico -- it was an affair of great consequence to her , and she had come as usual to talk it over with Mrs. Burt , feeling glad at the absence of Ben and Marian , the latter of whom she supposed was an orphan neice of her friend 's husband . 
The return of the young people operated as a restraint upon her , and changing the conversation , she spoke at last of a sick man who was up in the third story in one of the rooms of which she had the charge . 
`` He had the typhoid fever , '' she said , `` and was raving distracted with his head . 
John would n't put their wedding off , she knew , and she must go , though she did pity the poor young man -- he raved and took on so , asking them if anybody had seen Marian , or knew where she was buried ! '' 
Up to this point Marian had listened , because she knew it was the same man of whom Ben had told her in the morning ; but now the pulsations of her heart stopped , her head grew dizzy , her brain whirled , and she was conscious of nothing except that Ben made a hurried movement and then passed his arm around her , while he held a cup of water to her lips , sprinkling some upon her face , and saying , in a natural voice , `` Do n't you want a drink ? 
She only knew that Ben was offering Marian some water ; but Mrs. Burt understood it , and , when sure that Marian would not faint , she said : `` Where did the young man come from , and what is his name ? 
Scarcely had the door closed after her , when Marian was on her knees , and , with her head in Mrs. Burt 's lap , was begging of her to offer her services as nurse to Frederic Raymond ! 
`` He must not die there alone , '' she cried . 
Help me , Ben , to persuade her , '' she continued , appealing to the young man , who had not yet spoken upon the subject . 
This suggestion was so warmly seconded by Marian , that Mrs. Burt finally consented to seeing Martha , and asking her what she thought of the plan . 
Nightand day Frederic Raymond had traveled , never allowing himself a minute 's rest , nor even stopping at Yonkers , so intent was he upon reaching New York and finding , if possible , some clue to Marian . 
It was a hopeless task , for he had no starting point -- nothing which could guide him in the least , save the name of Sarah Green , and even that was not in the Directory , while to inquire for her former place of residence , was as preposterous as Marian 's inquiry for Mrs. Daniel Burt ! 
Once , in another and worse part of the city , he fancied he had found her , and that she had not sailed for Scotland as she had written , for they had told him that `` Sal Green lived up in the fourth story , '' and climbing the crazy stairs , he knocked at the low , dark door , shuddering involuntarily and experiencing a feeling of mortified pride as he thought it possible that Marian -- his wife -- had toiled up that weary way to die . 
`` The Lord knows , mebby , but I do n't , '' answered the woman , who was identical with the one who had so frightened Marian by watching her on that day when she sat in front of Trinity and wished that she could die , `` I do n't know as I ever seen her at all , '' she continued , `` but a year ago last November such a girl as you described , with long curls that looked red in the sunshine , sat on the steps way down by Trinity and cried so hard that I noticed her , and knew she war n't a beggar by her dress . 
I 'll give you half my fortune if you 'll bring back my poor , lost Marian , just as she was when she left me . '' 
The offer was a generous one , and Sal was tempted for a moment to tell him some big lie , and thus receive a companion to the bill she clutched so greedily , but the agonizing expression of his white face kindled a spark of pity within her bosom , and she replied , `` I did not finish tellin ' you that while Joe was talking and had seemingly persuaded her to go with him , a tall chap that I never seen before knocked him flat , and took the girl with him , and that 's why I remember it so well . '' 
Frederic felt that this information was better than none , for it was certain it was Marian whom the woman had seen , and , in a measure comforted by her assurance of Ben Burt 's honesty , he bade her good morning , and walked away . 
At last , worn out and discouraged , he returned to his hotel , where he lay now burning with fever , and , in his delirium , calling sometimes for Isabel , sometimes for Alice , and again for faithful Dinah , but never asking why Marian did not come . 
She was dead , and he only begged of those around him to take her away from Joe Black , or show him where her grave was made , so he could go home and tell the blind girl he had seen it . 
To her he put the same question he had asked nearly of every one : `` Do you know where Marian is ? '' 
`` Marian ! '' 
She is beautiful , but Marian was good -- and do you know Marian was the Heiress of Redstone Hall ; but I 'm not going to use her money . '' 
He would talk -- sometimes of Marian , and sometimes of Sarah Green , and the dreary room where he had been . 
`` It made Marian tired , '' he said , `` to climb those broken stairs -- tired , just as he was now . 
But she was resting so quietly in Heaven , and the April sun was shining on her grave . 
It was a little grave -- a child 's grave , as it were -- for Marian was not so tall nor so old as Isabel . '' 
Marian sha n't come , though ! 
It would kill her dead to hear him going on . '' 
Mrs. Burt was a little rash in making this assertion , for even while she spoke , Marian was in the receptionroom below , inquiring for the woman who took care of Mr. Raymond . 
Not once during the long night had she eyelids closed in sleep , and with the early morning she had started for the hotel , leaving Ben to get his breakfast as he could . 
`` Say Marian Grey wishes to see her , '' she said , in answer to the inquiry as to what name the servant was to take to No . 
exclaimed Mrs. Burt ; `` why did n't Ben keep her at home ? '' 
and , gliding down the stairs , she tried to persuade Marian to return . 
But when she saw the firm , determined expression in the young girl 's eye , she knew it was useless to reason with her , and saying , rather pettishly , `` You must expect to hear some cuttin ' things , '' she bade her follow up the stairs . 
His rich brown hair , now damp with heavy moisture , was pushed back from his white forehead , which , gleaming through the dusky darkness , first showed to Marian where he lay . 
The gas light hurt his eyes , and the lamp , which was kept continually burning , was so placed that its dim light did not fall on him , and a near approach was necessary to tell her just how he looked . 
He was fearfully changed , and , with a bitter moan , she laid her head beside him on the pillow , so that her short curls mingled with his darker locks , and she felt his hot breath on her cheek . 
she said , and at the sound of her voice he moved uneasily , as if about to waken . 
But Marian was deaf to all else save the whispered words dropping from the sick man 's lips . 
Yes , it was Marian , and with a cry of delight , which started Mrs. Burt to her feet , and penetrated even to the ear of the unconscious Frederic , she pressed her lips upon the very spot which they had touched before on that night when she gave him her first kiss . 
Slowly they wandered about the room , resting first upon the door , then on the chandelier , then on the ceiling above , and dropping finally lower , until at last they met and were riveted upon Marian , who , with clasped hands , stood breathlessly awaiting the result . 
`` Will he know her ? 
Does he know her ? '' 
was the mental query of Mrs. Burt ; while Marian 's fast-breathing heart asked the same question eagerly . 
Marian nodded , for she could not speak , and he continued : `` Marian kissed me there , too ! 
Little Marian , who went away , and it has burned and burned into my veins until it set my brain on fire . 
`` Yes , '' answered Marian , keen disappointment swelling within her bosom and forcing the great tears from her eyes . 
She had almost believed he would recognize her , but he did not ; and sinking down by his side , she buried her face in the bed clothes , and sobbed aloud . 
`` Do n't cry , little girl , '' he said , evidently disturbed at the sight of her tears . 
`` I cried when I thought Marian was dead , but that seems so long ago . '' 
`` Oh Frederic -- '' and forgetful of everything , Marian sprang to her feet . 
`` Are you Marian ? '' 
Do n't you know me , your poor lost Marian ? '' 
Very caressingly he passed his hand over her short silken curls -- pushed them back from her forehead -- examined them more closely , and then whispered mournfully , `` No , you are not Marian . 
This is not her hair . 
They are little hands , '' and he took them between his own , `` but not so small as Marian 's were when I held one in my hand and promised I would love her . 
It seemed like some tiny rose leaf , and I could have crushed it easily , but I did not ; I only crushed her heart , and she fled from me forever , for 't was a lie I told her , '' and his voice sunk to a lower tone . 
`` I did n't love her then -- I do n't know as I love her now , for Isabel is so beautiful . 
`` Oh , Frederic , '' groaned Marian , and wresting her hands from his gaasp , she tottered to a chair , while he looked after her wistfully . 
that 's the sound I heard the night Marian went away ! 
I thought then 't was the wind , but I knew afterwards that it was she , when her soul parted with her body , and it 's followed me ever since . 
I 've heard it at midnight , at noon-day -- in the storm and in the rushing river -- where we thought she was buried . 
cried Marian . 
`` I told you not to all the time , '' was Mrs. Burt 's consolatory remark ; which , however was lost on Marian , who , seizing her bonnet and shawl , rushed from the room , unmindful of the out-stretched arms which seemed imploring her to stay . 
The fresh morning air revived her fainting strength , but did not cool the feverish agony at her heart , and she sped onward , until she reached her home , where she surprised Ben at his solitary breakfast , which he had prepared himself . 
she cried , coming so suddenly npon him that he upset the coffee-pot into which he was pouring some hot water . 
Very hastily Marian related her adventures in the sick room , telling how Frederic had talked of marrying Isabel before her very face . 
`` Yes , '' returned Marian , who had made a similar inquiry of Mrs Burt . 
Marian felt that it would be right , and , though it cost her a pang , she said , at last : `` Yes , Ben , you may telegraph ; but what name will you append ? '' 
And leaving Marian to take charge of the breakfast table , he started for the office . 
Sometimes he called her Marian , and begged of them to bring her back , promising not to make her cry again . 
`` There is a mystery connected with this Marian he talks so much about , '' said the physician , who was present , `` and he seems to fancy a resemblance between her and the girl who left here this morning . 
What may I call her name ? '' 
`` Marian , my daughter , '' came involuntarily from Mrs. Burt , whose mental rejoinder was , `` God forgive me for that lie , if it was one . 
`` Well , then , '' continued the physician , `` suppose you send for her . 
`` I will go for her myself , '' said Mrs. Burt , who fancied some persuasion might be necessary ere Marian could be induced to return . 
But she was mistaken , for when told that Frederic 's life depended upon his being kept quiet , and his being kept quiet depended upon her presence , Marian consented , and nerved herself to hear him talk , as she knew he would , of her rival . 
`` If he lives , I will be satisfied , '' she thought , `` even though he never did or can love me , '' and with a strong , brave heart , she went back again to the sick man , who welcomed her joyfully , and folding his feeble arms around her neck , stroked again her hair , as he said , `` You will not leave me , Marian , till Isabel is here . 
Marian could not answer him , neither was it necessary that she should . 
He was satisfied to have her there , and with her sitting at his side , and holding his hand in hers , he became as gentle as a child . 
Occasionally he called her `` little girl , '' but oftener `` Marian , '' and when he said that name , he always smoothed her hair , as if he pitied her , and knew he had done her a wrong . 
And Marian felt each day more and more that the wound she hoped had partly healed was bleeding afresh with a new pain , for while he talked of Marian as a mother talks of an unfortunate child , he spoke of Isabel with all a lover 's pride , and each word was a dagger to the heart of the patient watcher , who sat beside him day and night , until her eyes were heavy , and her cheeks were pale with her unbroken vigils . 
she said to him one day , and sinking his voice to a whisper he replied , `` Yes , and I love you , too , though not like her , because I loved her first . '' 
`` And Marian ? '' 
questioned the young girl , `` Do n't you love her ? '' 
`` Not as I ought to -- not as I have prayed that I might , and not as I should , perhaps , if she had n't been to me what she is . 
Poor child , '' he continued , brushing away the tears which rolled like rain down Marian 's cheeks , `` poor child , are you crying for Marian ? '' 
`` Yes -- yes , for Marian -- for poor heart-broken me ; '' and the wretched girl buried her face in the pillow beside him , for he held her firmly by the wrist , and she could not get away . 
`` A friend of mine knows them , '' answered Marian , a deep flush stealing over her cheek . 
But Marian wished for no reward . 
It was sufficient for her to know that she had been instrumental in saving his life , even though she had saved it for Isabel . 
There was a hurried consultation between herself and Mrs. Burt , with regard to their future proceedings , and it was finally decided that the latter should remain a few days longer , and so report the progress of affairs to Marian , who , of course , must go away . 
thought Marian , glancing at Frederic , who was sleeping now more quietly than he had done before for a long time . 
She did not know Isabel Huntington , and she could not begin to guess how thoroughly selfish she was , nor how that selfishness was manifest in every movement . 
In the farthest corner in the room , where the shadows were the deepest , and where she would be the least observed , sat Marian , her hands clasped tightly together , her head bent forward , and her eyes fixed intently upon the door through which her rival would enter . 
Frederic was awake , and , missing her from her post , was about asking for her , when Isabel appeared , looking so fresh , so glowing , so beautiful , that for an instant Marian forgot everything in her admiration of the queenly creature , who , bowing civilly to Mrs. Burt , glided to the bedside , and sank upon her knees , gracefully -- very gracefully -- just as she had done at a private rehearsal in her own room ! 
Tighter the little hands were clasped together , and the head which had dropped before was erect now , as Marian watched eagerly for what would follow next . 
The nails were marking dark rings now in the tender flesh , while the blue eyes flashed until they grew almost as black as Isabel 's , and still Marian did not move . 
She could not , until she heard what answer would be given . 
It was somebody from home , and with a thrill of pleasure akin to what one feels when meeting a fellow countryman far away on a foreign shore , he twined his arms around her neck , and said to her joyfully : `` You are Isabel , and you 've come to make me well . '' 
Isabel and Marian , the one stamping indelibly upon her memory the lineaments of a face which had stolen and kept a heart which should have been her own , while the other wondered much at the strange white face which even through the darkness seemed quivering with pain . 
Purposely Mrs. Burt stepped between them , and thus the spell was broken , Isabel turning again to Frederic , while Marian , unlocking her stiff fingers , grasped her bonnet and glided from the room so silently that Isabel knew not she was gone until she turned her head and found the chair empty . 
After the first lucid interval , Frederic relapsed again into his former delirious mood , but did not ask for Marian . 
Mrs. Burt nodded , thinking how different was this conduct from that of the unselfish Marian , who had watched night after night without giving herself the rest she absolutely needed . 
Isabel , on the contrary , had no idea of impairing her beauty , or bringing discomfort to herself by spending many hours at a time in that close , unwholesome atmosphere , and while Marian in her humble apartment was weeping bitterly , she was dreaming of returning to Kentucky as a bride . 
Frederic could scarcely do less than reward her kindness by marrying her as soon as he was able . 
She could take care of him so much better , she thought , and ere she fell asleep she had arranged it all in her own mind , and had fancied her mother 's surprise at receiving a letter signed by her new name , `` Isabel H. Raymond . '' 
She would retain the `` H , '' she said . 
She always liked to see it , and she hoped Agnes Gibson , if she persisted in that foolish fancy of the fish-knife , would have it marked in this way ! 
It was long after daylight ere she awoke , and when she did her first thought was of her pleasant dream and her second of the girl she had seen the night before . 
`` How white she was , '' she said , as she made her elaborate toilet , `` and how those eyes of hers glared at me , as if I had no business here . 
Once she thought of Mrs. Daniel Burt , wondering where she lived , and half wishing she could find her , and , herself unknown , could question her of Marian . 
She understood it all , and he knew who Mrs. Daniel Burt was just as well as she did , for even if he had forgotten that she once lived with his father , Marian 's letter had refreshed his memory , and he was only ` putting on ' for the sake of misleading Isabel . 
During the day not a word was said of Marian . 
Mrs. Burt , who had watched him carefully , knew that the danger was past , and that afternoon she left him with Isabel , while she went home , where she found Marian seriously ill , with Ben taking care of her in his kind but awkward manner . 
were Marian 's first questions , and when Mrs. Burt replied in the negative , she turned away whispering , mournfully , `` It is just as well . '' 
She had called him Frederic , too , while he had called her Marian . 
`` It was Marian ! 
-- it was Marian ! '' 
`` She is gone , '' said Isabel . 
`` Gone to her home . '' 
`` When did she go , and why ? '' 
It was n't Marian 's hair -- it was n't Marian at all ; and in his weakness his tears dropped silently upon the pillow , for the disappointment was terrible . 
All that night and the following day he was haunted with thoughts of the young girl , and at last , determining to see her again and know if she were like Marian , he said to Isabel : `` Send for Mrs. Merton . 
But he guarded that secret well , and day after day he thought on , living over again the first weeks of his sickness in that chamber , until at last the conviction was fixed upon his mind that , spite of the short hair , spite of the probable age , spite of the story about Mrs. Merton 's daughter , or yet the letter from Sarah Green , that young girl who had watched with him so long and then disappeared so mysteriously , was none other than Marian -- his wife . 
Sarah Green 's letter was a forgery -- Alice 's prediction was true , and Marian still lived . 
But where was she now ? 
Why had she left him so abruptly ? 
and would he ever find her ? 
He would spare no time , no pains , no money in the search ; and when he found her he would love and cherish her as she deserved . 
He was beginning to love her now , and he wondered at his infatuation for Isabel , whose real character was becoming more and more apparent to him . 
Whenthe carriage containing Mrs. Huntington rolled away from the hotel , Frederic , who was standing upon the steps , experienced a feeling of relief in knowing that , as far as personal acquaintances were concerned , he was now alone and free to commence his search for Marian . 
Each day the conviction had been strengtnened that she was alive -- that she had been with him a few weeks before -- and now every energy should be devoted to finding her . 
Once he thought of advertising , but she might not see the paper , and as he rather shrank from making his affairs thus public , he abandoned the project , determining , however , to leave no other means untried ; he would hunt the city over , inquire at every house , and then scour the surrounding country . 
Perhaps she could direct him to Joe Black , who might know the tall man last seen with Marian . 
Sal knew him at once , and tucking her grizzly hair beneath her dirty cap , waited to hear his errand , which was soon told . 
Could she give him any further information of that young girl , had she ever heard of her since his last visit there , and would she tell him where to find Joe Black ? 
Wistfully , too , he glanced out at the houses they were passing , saying to himself : `` Is it there Marian lives , or there ? '' 
Then the car moved on , and to the weary man sitting in the corner there came no voice to tell how near he had been to the lost one , for that window was Mrs. Burt 's , and the bending figure -- Marian . 
He had seen her -- he had passed within a few rods of her and she could have heard him had he shouted aloud , but for all the good that this did him she might have been miles and miles away , for he never dreamed of the truth , and day after day he continued his search , while the excitement , the fatigue , and the constant disappointment , told fearfully upon his constitution . 
Involuntarily he thought of those which had so lately held his feverish head ; they must have been much like the little ones holding so fast the basket , and he wished that chance had brought Marian there instead of the young girl sitting so still beside him . 
A strange sensation thrilled him at the very idea of meeting her thus , while his heart beat fast , but never said to him that it was Marian herself ! 
He asked himself that question a thousand times in after years , saying he should know her again , but he had no suspicion of it now , though when they stopped at the same street down which he once had looked at the open window , and when the seat beside him was empty , he did experience a sense of loneliness -- a feeling as if a part of himself had gone with the young girl . 
Marian 's face crimsoned at this question , and in a hard , unnatural voice she replied : `` He did n't wish to come . 
`` Oh , Ben , '' said Marian , `` you certainly would n't have me degrade myself like that ! 
`` You do n't wish any such thing , '' answered Ben , and in the same cold , hard tone Marian continued : `` I do . 
No you do n't , '' chimed in Ben ; and Marian growing still more excited , continued , `` Well , if I do n't , I will . 
and feeling rather amused than otherwise , he watched Marian as she paced the floor , her blue eyes flashing angrily and her whole face indicative of strong excitement . 
She fully believed that Frederic knew her , simply because she recognized him , and his failing to acknowledge the recognition filled her with indignation and determination to forget him if it were possible . 
Ah , little did she dream then of the lonely man , who , in the same room where she so recently had been , sat with bowed head , and thought of her until the distant bells tolled the hour of midnight . 
I will be to her a brother ; and when Marian is found , the two shall be like sisters , until some man who has not a wife already takes Isabel from my hands . '' 
This done , he retired to rest , dreaming strange dreams of Marian and the girl who sat beside him . 
But a second glance assured him of its safety -- for , half buried in its long , silk fur , was a small white hand , a hand like Marian 's and that of the girl with the thick brown vail . 
`` Its owner was the mistress of the kitten , '' he said ; and the top of her head was just visible , for she sat reading upon a little stool , and utterly unconscious of the stranger who , on the opposite side in the street , cast many and wistful glances in that direction , not because he fancied that she was there , nor yet for any explainable reason , except that the fringed curtain reminded him of his boyhood ; and he knew the occupant of that room had once lived in the country , and bleached her linen on the sweet , clean grass , which grew by the running brook . 
`` Marian , '' said Mrs. Burt , `` who is that tall man going down the street ? 
Is n't it -- '' She did not need to repeat the name , for Marian saw who it was , and her fingers buried themselves so deeply in the fat sides of the kitten that the little animal fancied the play rather too rude for comfort , and , spitting at her mistress pertly bounded upon the floor . 
cried Marian . 
And in her joy Marian forgot the harsh things she had said of him only the night before . 
But in vain Marian waited for the step upon the stairs -- the loud knock upon the door -- neither of them came , and leaning from the window she watched him through her tears until he passed from sight . 
My way of thinkin ' ` taint neither one nor t ` other , though mabby you 'll like it -- Marian ; ` taint a common name . 
`` Marian ! '' 
That little blind gal told me your fust wife was Marian , and I or ` to known better than harrer your feelings with the name . '' 
Frederic admitted that he could , and Ben continued , `` I or ` to told you , I s ` pose , that Marian ai n't my own flesh and blood -- she 's adopted , that 's all . 
But I love her jest the same . 
Her name is Marian Grey , '' and Ben looked earnestly at Frederic , thinking to himself , `` Wo n't he take the hint when he knows , or had or ` to know that her mother was a Grey . '' 
He had no suspicion of the truth , and Ben proceeded , `` All her kin is dead , and as mother had n't no daughter she took this orphan , and I 'm workin ' hard to give her a good schoolin ' . 
She can play the pianner like fury , and talks the French grammar most as well as I do the English ! '' 
`` Blast Miss Huntington , '' thought Ben , now thoroughly satisfied that his companion did not care to discover Marian , or he would certainly say something about her . 
Both she and his mother were sure that he knew she had been with him in his sickness , and if he really wished to find her he would speak of her as well as of Mrs. Merton . 
`` Give my regrets to that Josh , and the rest of the niggers , and do n't on no account forget the picter , '' were his last words , as he quitted the car , and then hurried home impatient to show Marian his surprise . 
He found her sitting by the open window -- a listless , dreamy look in her blue eyes , and a sad expression upon her face , which said that her thoughts were far away in the South-land , where Nature had decked her beautiful home with all the glories of the merry month of May and the first bright days of June . 
Roses were blooming there now , she knew , and she thought of the bush she had planted beneath the library window , wondering if that were in bloom , and if its fragrance ever reminded the dear ones of her . 
Did Alice twine the buds amid her soft hair , just as she used to do , and call them Marian 's buds , saying they were sweeter than all the rest ? 
`` Darling Alice , '' she murmured , `` I shall never see her again : '' and her tears were dropping upon her lap just as Ben came in , and began : `` Wall , wee one , I 've seen the Square , and talked with him of you . '' 
-- and Marian 's face was spotted with her excitement -- `` what made you ? 
`` Gone home , '' answered Ben ; `` but he had this took on purpose for you ; '' and he tossed the picture into her lap . 
Oh , Mrs. Burt , it is , '' and Marian 's lip touched the glass , from which the face of Frederic Raymond looked kindly out upon her . 
It was thinner than when she used to know it , but fuller , stronger-looking than when it lay among the tumbled pillows . 
The eyes , too , were hollow , and not so bright , while it seemed to her that the rich brown hair was not so thrifty as of old . 
But it was Frederic still , her Frederic , and she pressed it again to her lips , while her heart thrilled with the joyful thought that he remembered her , and had sent her this priceless token . 
But why had he gone home without her -- why had he left her there alone if he really cared for finding her ? 
Slowly , as a cloud obscures a summer sky , a shadow crept over her face -- a shadow of doubt -- of distrust . 
There was something she had not heard , and with quivering lip she said to Ben , `` What does it mean ? 
It was cruel to deceive her as he had done , and so Ben thought when he saw the heaving of her chest , the pressure of her hands , and more than all , the whiteness of her face , as he told her why Frederic sent to her that picture ; that it was not taken for Marian Lindsey , but rather for Marian Grey , adopted sister of Benjamin Butterworth . 
`` He does not wish to find me , '' said Marian when Ben had finished speaking . 
She grows handsome every day of her life , '' and as this , in Ben 's estimation , was the one thing of all others to be desired by Marian , he could not forbear complimenting her aloud upon her rapid improvement in looks . 
`` Thank you , '' she answered , smiling very faintly , for to her , beauty or accomplishments were of little avail if in the end Frederic 's love were not secured . 
Anon , however , hope whispered to her that it might be , and again she opened the daguerreotype , catching a glow of encouragement from the eyes which looked so kindly at her , as if they fain would tell her of the weary days the original of that picture had spent in searching for her , or how , even now , amid the noise and dust of the crowded cars , he sat , wholly unmindful of what was passing around , never looking at the beautiful blue river without , or yet at the motley passengers within , but with his hat drawn over his eyes and his shawl across his lap , he thought of her alone , except indeed occasionally when there would intrude itself upon him the remembrance of the girl with the brown vail , or a thought of Marian Grey ! 
Not the least mention did he make of Marian , but Alice understood at once that he meant her . 
Marian and the blue-eyed girl were the same , and he would bring her back to them again . 
She was certain of it , and though in his last letter , dated at Riverside , and apprising them of his intended return , he had not alluded to the subject , it made no difference with her . 
He wished really to surprise her , she thought , and seeking out Dinah , she said to her , rather cautiously , for she would let no one into her secret : `` Supposing Frederic had never been married to Marian , but had gone now after a bride -- I do n't mean Isabel , '' she said , as she felt the defiant expression of Dinah 's face -- `` but somebody else -- somebody real nice . 
Thar haint nobody slep ' i n't sence Marian run away , ` cept Miss Agnes one night and that trollop , Isabel , who consulted me by sayin ' how ' t they done clarmbered onto a table afore they could get inter bed , 't was so high . 
Lid 's services were next brought into requisition ; and when the chamber was swept and dusted , the arrangement of the furniture was left entirely to Alice , who felt that what she did was right , and wished so much that she could see just how Marian 's favorite chair looked standing by the window , from which the gorgeous sunsets Marian so much admired could be plainly seen . 
Just opposite , and on the other side of the window , Frederic 's easy chair was placed -- the one in which he always sat when tired , and where Alice fancied he would now delight to sit with Marian , so near that he could look into her eyes and tell her that he was glad to have her there . 
He was beginning to love her Alice knew by the tone of his letters ; and her heart thrilled with joy as she thought of the happiness in store for them all . 
She would not be lonely now in her own pleasant chamber , for it was so near to Marian 's . 
She could leave the doors open between , and that would be so much nicer than having black Ellen sleeping on the floor . 
She built bright castles in the air that summer day , and they were as real to her as if Frederic had written , `` Marian is found , and coming home with me . '' 
`` She loved a great many flowers around her , '' she said , and groping her way down the stairs and out into the yard , she gathered from the tree beneath the library window a profusion of buds and half opened roses , which she arranged into bouquets , and placed in vases for Marian , just as Marian had gathered flowers for her from the garden far away on the river . 
`` I 'll go and see , '' said Frederic , starting in quest of the little girl , who , as Dinah had conjectured , was in the front chamber -- the one prepared with so much care for Marian . 
She had been sitting by the window when she heard the sound of wheels coming up the avenue . 
-- Then the joyful cry of `` Marster 's comin ' , '' came to her quick ear , and , starting up , she bent her head to listen for another voice -- a voice she had not heard for many a weary month . 
But she listened in vain , for Marian was not there . 
Gradually she became convinced of the fact , and , laying her face on the windowsill , she was weeping bitterly when Frederic came in . 
`` I would that it might have been so , '' he thought , and going to the weeping Alice he lifted up her head and pushing her hair from her forehead , whispered to her softly , `` Darling , was it for Marian you gathered all these flowers ? '' 
`` Yes , Frederic , for Marian , '' and Alice sobbed aloud . 
Taking her in his lap , Frederic replied , `` Did you think I would bring her home ? '' 
`` Yes , I thought you had found her , and I was so glad . 
Marian is alive . '' 
`` She had a sweet , childish face , '' said he , `` fairer , sweeter than Marian 's when she went away -- but Marian must have changed ; for I knew that this was she . '' 
`` Was n't that Marian ? '' 
`` Frederic , '' she began , and her little hand played with his hair , as it always did when she was uncertain as to how her remarks would be received , `` Frederic , ai n't you loving Marian a heap more than you did when she went away ? '' 
Frederic did not hesitate a moment ere replying , `` Yes , darling , I am , for that young girl crept away down into my heart where Marian ought to have been , before I asked her to be my wife ; and I shall find her too . 
Of Marian Grey Alice did not say to him `` She is our Marian , '' for she had not such a thought , but she seemed interested both in her and in Ben , and when told that the latter had asked for her picture she consented at once , saying he should have it as soon as they were settled at Riverside . 
`` I would not tell any one that Marian was with me , '' said Frederic , as their conversation drew to a close ; `` I had rather the subject should not be discussed until I really find her and bring her home ; then we will set apart a day of general thanksgiving . '' 
`` But he would find her , '' he said to himself , and as he looked at the ill-matched bride and groom , he could not forebear wishing that it were himself and Marian . 
He would stay by her now , he thought , and when it grew dark in the parlor instead of suffering her to go away alone and read the fatal letter , he would draw her to his side , and telling her of its contents , would sue for her forgiveness , and offer to her love in return for the fraud imposed upon her . 
If he found Marian he should come back , of course , he thought , but he did not deem it best to raise hopes which might never be realized , so he said nothing of her to the blacks who supposed of course she was dead . 
and Alice 's eyes lighted up , for she thought at once of Marian , who would know of course about the house , and as she would naturally wish to see it , she had come some day and left these flowers , which would be so dear to her if she found her suspicious correct . 
`` Yes , it was Marian , '' came involuntarily from Alice 's lips , while the woman , catching at the name rejoined : `` That sounds like what he called her -- that tall spooky chap , her brother -- Ben something . 
She said he had seen you at the South . '' 
`` Oh , Frederic , '' she cried , holding fast to his hand , as they made their way up town -- `` oh , Frederic , I wonder Marian did n't get crazy and die . 
They had come upon each other so suddenly that there was not time for the brown vail to be dropped , neither was it needful , for so absorbed was Frederic with his charge that he neither knew nor dreamed how near to Marian Lindseyhe had been . 
`` Give her this , '' he said , handing his card to the servant who carried it at once to the delighted young lady . 
`` It was false that Marian was living , and had taken care of him when sick , '' she said . 
`` He could not impose that story upon her , and he only wished to do it because he fancied that he was in some way pledged to her and wished for an excuse , but he might have saved himself the trouble , for even had Alice not appeared she should have told him No . 
Marian will , I trust , be with me then ; but she will be kind to you , for 't is her nature . '' 
`` Plague on that Marian , '' was Isabel 's unlady-like thought as the door closed after Frederic . 
`` I wonder how many times she 's coming to life ! 
How I wanted to charge him with his meanness in marrying her fortune , but as that is a secret between the two , he would have suspected me of treachery . 
When sure that Isabel was gone , and that Sarah Green 's letter had indeed been written in vain , Rudolph , who cared nothing now whether Marian were ever discovered to her husband or not , went to New York and embarked on a whaling voyage , as he had long thought of doing , fancying that the roving life of a seaman would suit his restless nature . 
And now , with Rudolph on the sea , with Isabel in Florida , with Marian at school , and Frederic at Riverside , we draw a vail over the different characters of our story , nor lift it again until three years have passed away , bringing changes to all , but to none a greater change than to the so-called Marian Grey . 
And when the mourners came back from the grave in the country , one threw himself upon the lounge , and burying his face in the cushions , sobbed aloud : `` Oh , Marian , it 's terrible to be an orphan and have no mother . '' 
`` Yes , Ben , 't is terrible , '' and Marian 's tears dropped on the hair of the honest-hearted Ben . 
Up to this hour he had restrained his grief , but now that he was alone with Marian , he wept on until the sun went down and the night shadows were creeping into the room . 
Oh , Ben , I never can forget how much you have done for me , denying yourself everything for my sake , '' said Marian , while Ben continued , `` Nor wo n't you be ashamed of me neither , if I should come sometimes to see you ? 
I should die if I could not once in a while look into your eyes ; and you 'll let me come , wo n't you , Marian ? '' 
`` Of course I will , '' she replied , continuing after a moment , `` It is not certain yet that I go to Mrs. Sheldon 's . 
`` I have no fears of that , '' said Marian . 
`` No , '' was Ben 's decided answer , and in this opinion Marian herself concurred , for she knew that she had changed so much that none who saw her when first she came to Mrs. Burt 's would recognize her now . 
This , however , made no difference with Mrs. Sheldon , and several letters had passed between herself and Marian , who would have accepted the liberal offer at once , but for a lingering hope that Ben would carry out his favorite plan , and procure her a situation as teacher at Riverside . 
She had forgotten what she once said about learning to hate Frederic , and the possibility of living again beneath the some roof with him made her heart beat faster than its wont . 
She had occasionally met him in the street , and once she was sure his eye had rested upon her in passing , but she knew by its expression that she was not recognized , and when Ben suggested offering her services as Alice 's governess she readily consented . 
During these years Ben had not lost sight of Frederic 's movements , though it so chanced that they had met but twice , once just after the receipt of Alice 's picture , which had been greeted by Marian with a shower of kisses and tears , and once the previous Autumn , when Frederic was about returning to Kentucky , for , with his changed feelings toward Marian , Mr. Raymond felt less delicacy in using her money -- less aversion to Redstone Hall , where his presence was really needed , for a portion of the year at least , and which he intended making his Winter residence . 
But he was at Riverside now , and Ben was about going there to see what arrangements could be made , when his mother 's sudden death caused both himself and Marian to forget the subject until the night after the burial , when , without a moment forgetting the dead or the dreary blank her absence made , they talked together of the future , and decided that on the morrow Ben should go to Riverside and see if there were room in Frederic 's house for Marian Grey . 
The morning came , and at an early hour Ben started , bidding Marian keep up her spirits as he was sure of bringing her good tidings . 
Frederic was sitting in his arm chair , which stood near the window , just where Marian had placed it three years and a half ago . 
Not that it had never been moved since that April morning , for , freed from old Dinah 's surveillance , Mrs. Huntington , who was still at Riverside , proved herself a pattern housekeeper , and the chair had probably been moved a thousand times to make room for the broom and brush , but it was in its old place now , and Frederic was sitting in it , thinking of Marian and his hitherto fruitless efforts at finding her . 
He was beginning to get discouraged , and still each time he went to the city he thought `` perhaps I may meet her to-day , '' and each night , as the hour for his return drew near , Alice waited upon the piazza when the weather was fine , and by the window when it was cold , listening intently for another step than Frederic 's -- a step which never came , and then Alice grew less hopeful , while Marian seemed farther and farther away as month after month went by bringing no tidings of her . 
Frederic knew that she must necessarily have changed somewhat from the Marian of old , for she was a woman now , but he should readily recognise her , he said . 
He should know her by her peculiar hair , if by no other token . 
So when his eye once rested on a face of surpassing sweetness , shaded by curls of soft chestnut hair , which in the sunlight wore a rich red tinge , he felt a glow like that which one experiences in gazing for a single instant on some picture of rare lovelinness ; then the picture faded , the graceful figure glided by , and there was nothing left to tell how , by stretching forth his hand , he might have grasped his long lost Marian . 
Moments there were when she seemed near to him , almost within his reach , and such a moment was the one when Mrs. Huntington announced Ben Butterworth , whom he had not seen for a long time . 
But when he saw the crape upon Ben 's hat , and the sorrow on his face , he forgot Marian in his anxiety to know what had happened . 
`` He should peddle now just as he used to do , of course , but wimmen wa n't so lucky , and all Marian could do was to teach . 
He had given her a tip-top larnin ' , though she had earnt some o n't herself by sewin ' . 
She had got a paper thing , too , with a blue ribin , from Miss Harcourt , who praised her up to the skies . 
One year was not very long to wait , and by that time Marian would certainly be past recognition , and as all Ben 's wishes and plans centered upon one thing , to wit : Mr. Raymond 's falling in love with his unknown wife , he was readily consoled , and wiping his eyes , he said apologetically , as it were , `` I 'm dreadful tender-hearted , and since I 've been an orphan it 's ten times wus . 
`` I should have writ , only that ai n't in my line much , and I do n't always spell jest right , but we got the picter , and Marian was so pleased she cried . '' 
`` What made her ? '' 
`` She do n't know me . '' 
`` But she knows you 're blind , for I told her , '' was Ben 's quick reply , which was quite satisfactory to Alice , who by this time had detected a note of sadness in his voice , and she asked what was the matter . 
One year 's daily intercourse with fashionable people , he thought , would be of invaluable service to Marian , and as he wished her to be perfect both in looks and manners when he presented her to Frederic Raymond , he was well satisfied to wait , and he returned to New York with a light , hopeful heart . 
Marian , on the contrary , was slightly disappointed , for like Alice , a year seemed to her a long , long time . 
It was hard to break up their old home , but it was necessary , they knew , and with sad hearts they disposed of the furniture , gave up the rooms , and then , when the appointed time came , Marian started for her new home , accompanied by Ben , who went rather unwillingly . 
`` We ai n't no more alike than ile and water , '' he said , when she first suggested his going , `` and they wo n't think as much of you for seein ' me . '' 
But Marian insisted , and Ben went with her , mentally resolving to say but little , as by this means he fancied `` he would be less likely to show how big a dolt he was ! '' 
Mrs. Sheldon ` sresidence was a most delightful spot , reminding Marian a little of Redstone Hall , and as she passed up its nicely graveled walk and stepped upon its broad piazza , she felt that she could be very happy there , provided she met with sympathizing friends . 
Any doubts she might have had upon this subject were speedily dispelled by the appearance of Mrs. Sheldon , in whose face there was something very familiar ; and it was not long ere Marian identified her as the lady who had spoken so kindly to her in the car between Albany and New York , asking her what was the matter , and if she had friends in the city . 
This put Marian at once at her ease , and her admiration for her employer increased each moment , particularly when she saw how gracious she was to Ben , who true to his resolution , scarcely spoke except to answer Mrs. Sheldon 's questions and to decline her invitation to dinner . 
`` I should never get through that in the world without some blunder , '' he thought , and as the dinner-bell was ringing , he took his leave , crying like a child when he parted with Marian , who was scarcely less affected than himself . 
Ben understood the drift of her remarks at once , and with imperturbable gravity , replied : `` I come from down East , where they raise sich as me , and this is the fust time I was ever out of Tanton , which allus was my native town ! '' 
Nobody ever said that of Ben Bur -- Ben Butterwith , '' he added , hastily , for until Marian was discovered to Frederic , he thought it best to retain the latter name . 
Mrs. Sheldon left the room , and going up to Marian 's chamber , knocked at the door . 
A low voice bade her come in , and she entered just in time to see Marian hide away the daguerreotype of Frederic , at which she had been looking . 
`` My brother and sister are in the parlor and have asked for you , '' she said . 
`` I will come down in a moment , '' returned Marian , who wished a little time to dry her tears , for she had been weeping over the pictures of Frederic and Alice , both of which she had in her possession . 
Marian was perfectly lady-like in her manners ; her language was well chosen ; her voice soft and low ; and ere she had been with her half an hour , Ellen secretly acknowledged her superiority to most of the young ladies of her acquaintance , and she regretted that she , too , had not been educated at Mrs. Harcourt 's school , if such manners as Miss Grey 's were common there . 
At Mrs. Sheldon 's request , Marian took her seat at the piano , and then Ellen hoped to criticise ; but here again she was at fault , for Marian was a brilliant performer , keeping perfect time , and playing with the most exquisite taste . 
As she was turning over the leaves of the music book after the close of the first piece , Will said to his sister : `` By the way , Nell , I had a letter from Fred to-day and he says he will be delighted to get you that music the first time he goes to the city . '' 
Marian started just as she had done that afternoon when Mrs. Sheldon called her youngest boy Fred . 
Marian 's hand was stayed now , and she listened eagerly for the answer , which was `` Sometime in November , and he has invited me to go with him , but I hardly think I shall . 
Up to this point Marian had sat immovable , listening eagerly and wondering where these people had known Frederic Raymond . 
Then , as something far back in the past flashed upon her mind , she turned , and looking in the young man 's face , knew who he was and that they had met before . 
His name had seemed familiar from the first , and she knew that he was the Will Gordon who had been Frederic 's chum in college , and had once spent a vacation at Redstone Hall . 
He had predicted that she would be a handsome woman , and Frederic had said she could not with such hair . 
She remembered it all distinctly , but any effect it might then have had upon her was lost in her anxiety to hear the answer to Ellen 's question . 
A sudden movement on Marian 's part made Will recollect her , and he hastened to apologise for his apparent forgetfulness of her presence . 
`` Certainly , '' she replied , while around the corners of her mouth were little laughing dimples , which told no tales to the young man , who continued : `` Will you give us some more music ? 
Marian was in a mood for anything , and turning to the piano she dashed off into a merry , spirited thing , to which Will 's feet kept time , while Ellen looked on amazed at the white fingers which flew like lightning over the keys , seemingly never resting for an instant upon any one of them , but lighting here and there with a rapidity she never before seen equalled . 
It was the outpouring of Marian 's heart , and the tune she played was a song of jubilee for the glad tidings she had heard . 
Ere she had half finished , Will Gordon was at her side , gazing wonderingly into her face , which sparkled and glowed with her excitemnt . 
That night three men dreamed of Marian -- Will Gordon in his bachelor apartments , which he had said should never be invaded with a female 's wardrobe -- Ben Burt in his room at the Lovejoy Hotel -- and Frederic Raymond in his cheerful home upon the Hudson . 
But to Marian , sleeping so quietly in her chamber there came a thought of only one , and that one Frederic Raymond , whose picture lay beneath her pillow . 
She had never placed it there until to-night , for she had felt that she had no right to do so . 
He said that Frederic was begining to love her at last -- that he had sought for her without success -- that he would give almost anything to find her . 
It is true she could not reconcile all this with her preconceived opinion : but she had no wish to doubt it , and she accepted it as truth , thinking it was probably a very recent thing with him , this searching after and loving her . 
Very rapidly and pleasantly to Marian did the first few weeks of her sojourn with Mrs. Sheldon pass away . 
She was interested in her pupils , two bright-faced little girls , and doubly interested in their brother , the browneyed Fred , whose real name she learned was Frederic Raymond , he having been called , Mrs. Sheldon said , after Williams particular friend , who spent his winters in Kentucky , and his Summers at Riverside , a delightful place on the Hudson . 
Frederic Raymond was a frequent subject of conversation in Mrs. Sheldon 's family , and once , after Marian had been there four or five months , and Will , as usual , was spending an evening there , the matter was discussed at length , while Marian , sitting partly in the shade , so that the working of her features could not be seen , dropped stitch after stitch in the cloud she was crotcheting , and finally stopped altogether as the conversation proceeded . 
But he has recovered from that infatuation , and I am glad of it , for I never liked her , and had the thing been possible , I should say she poisoned him against this Marian . 
Why , Miss Grey , you are actually shivering , '' he added , as he saw the violent trembling of Marian 's body , and this time he opened the register and shut the door , offering to go for a shawl , and asking where she had taken such a cold . 
`` It 's only a slight chill -- it will soon pass off , '' she said , and as Mrs. Sheldon was just then called from the room , Will drew his chair a little nearer to Marian and continued : `` This Raymond affair must be irksome to you , who know nothing about it . '' 
`` Oh , no , '' said Marian faintly . 
His hobby in college was a handsome wife , but he has learned that beauty alone is worthless , and he would gladly take Marian back . '' 
asked Marian , mischievously , and Will replied , `` Yes , I believe he 's even made up his mind to the red hair . 
`` Redstone Hall is a beautiful spot , I believe , '' said Marian , briefly stating thai Ben had once been there in his travels , and had since met Mr. Raymond in New York . 
`` I know ofthem , '' returned Marian , `` for Ben was so much interested in the blind girl that after his return he talked of little else . '' 
`` You have never seen them yourself , of course , '' and taking this fact for granted , Will proceeded to give her a most minute description of Redstone Hall , of its master , and of herself as she was when he visited Kentucky . 
was the answer ; and Marian 's tears flowed faster . 
Will Gordon was distressed at the sight of woman 's tears , but particularly at the sight of Marian Grey 's , and he tried to console her by saying he was sure Mr. Raymond would sometime find his wife , and they all would be the happier for what they both had suffered . 
`` Beautiful -- beautiful Marian ! 
Yes , I will call her Marian here on paper , with no one to see it but you . 
I never can get higher than Marian 's blue eyes unless indeed I reached her hair , at which point I should certainly yield , and go over to the enemy at once . '' 
Will Gordon 's description of Marian Grey thrilled him with a strange feeling of pleasure , imperceptibly sending his thoughts after another Marian , and involuntarily he said , aloud , `` If she had been like this picture Will has drawn , I should not be here so lonely and desolate . '' 
beautiful Marian ! ' 
She is beautiful , I am sure , and your description of her is just what I would like to apply to my own wife -- my lost Marian ! 
`` I should suppose she might see it , '' he thought -- `` might know how much I am in love with Marian , for I used to be always talking about her , and now I never mention her , it makes my heart thump so if I try to speak her name . 
Nell will make a fuss , perhaps , for she thinks so much of family : but Marian is family enough for me . 
`` Have you spoken to Marian ? '' 
he asked , in some alarm ; and with a tremor in her voice , his mother replied , `` I 've nothing against Marian , but we are so happy together , and it would kill me to have you go away . '' 
I can bring her home , and you wo n't have to mend my socks any more . 
He knew she had always admired Miss Grey , but he expected more opposition than this , and in his delight he would have gone to see Marian at once , were it not that he had heard she was absent that evening . 
`` They dare not slight my wife , you know , '' and then he drew a pleasing picture of the next Summer , when , with his mother , Marian and Ellen , he would visit the White Mountains and Montreal . 
`` Well spoken for yourself , little puss , '' returned Will ; `` but it 's a grand idea , and I 'll make arrangements with Tom as soon as I have seen Marian . 
Maybe she 'll refuse me , '' and Will turned pale at the very idea . 
Marian liked William Gordon very much -- partly because he was Frederic 's friend , and partly because she knew him to be a most affectionate brother and dutiful son -- two rare qualities in a traveled and fashionable man . 
She was always pleased to see him , and she welcomed him now as usual , without observing his evident embarrassment when at last they were alone . 
and Marian 's voice betrayed more interest than the word would indicate . 
and Marian started so suddenly that she pulled her needle out from the worsted garment she was knitting . 
`` A Sontag , or Hug-me-tight , '' said Marian , while Will involuntarily exclaimed , `` Oh , I wish I could -- see Fred , he 's such a good fellow , '' he hastened to add , as he saw Marian 's wondering glance . 
But the beginning and end of the sentence were too far apart to belong to each other , and there was a moment 's awkward silence , which was broken at last by Marian , who , resolving to take no notice of the strange speech , said : `` What did Mr. Raymond write of me ? '' 
The sight of the well-remembered handwriting affected Marian sensibly ; but when she came to the last part , and began to understand to what it all was tending , her head grew dizzy and her brain whirled for a moment . 
Then an intense pity for Will Gordon filled her soul , for looking upward she met the glance of his eyes , and saw therein how much she was beloved . 
she cried , putting her hands to her ears as he began to say : `` Dear Marian . '' 
And she burst into tears , weeping so bitterly that in his efforts to soothe her , Will well nigh carried out the wish which had been finished up with `` seeing Frederic Raymond . '' 
Her not being what she seemed , he fancied might refer to something connected with her birth , and he hastened to assure her that no circumstance whatever could change his feelings , or prevent him from wishing her to be his wife . 
`` Wo n't you , Marian ? '' 
he said , holding her in his arm so she could not escape . 
he continued , while she sobbed so violently as to render speaking impossible . 
`` I am sorry if my words distressed you so , '' he added , resting her head upon his bosom , and fondly smoothing her hair . 
`` I am distressed for you , '' Marian at last found voice to say . 
`` Marian , are you in earnest ? '' 
Oh , Marian , if you desert me now , I shall wish that I could die ! '' 
Marian struggled until she released herself from his embrace , and , standing before him , she replied : `` I never dreamed that you thought of me , save as a friend , and if I have encouraged you , it was because -- you reminded me of another . 
He did not need to ask her now if she were in earnest ; for , looking up into her truthful , clear blue eyes , he knew there was no hope for him , and bowing his head upon the arm of the sofa , he groaned aloud , while the heaving of his chest showed how much he suffered , and how manfully he strove to keep his feelings down . 
Mournfully Marian gazed upon him , wishing she had never come there , if by coming she had brought this hour of anguish to him . 
Half timidly she laid her hand upon his head , for she wished to comfort him ; and , as he felt the touch of her fingers , he started , while an expression of joy lighted up his face , only to pass away again as he saw the same unloving look in her eye . 
`` If I could comfort you , '' she said , `` I would gladly do it ; but I can not . 
Who is he , Marian ? ' 
`` I would rather you should not -- it can do no good , '' was Marian 's reply ; and then Will Gordon pleaded with her to think again ere she told him so decidedly no . 
She might outlive that other love . 
She ought to , certainly , if ` twere a hopeless one ; and if she only gave him half a heart , he would be content until he won the whole . 
They would go to Europe in Autumn ; and beneath the sunny skies of Italy she would learn to love him , he knew . 
`` Wo n't you , Marian ? '' 
And , laying her head in the motherly lap of Mrs. Gordon , Marian wept bitterly -- half tempted , more than once , to tell her the whole truth . 
But this she did not do , and she wept on , while Mrs. Gordon 's tears kept company with her own . 
And this was all the satisfaction Marian could give . 
Mrs. Sheldon next tried her powers of persuasion , pleading for herself quite as much as for her brother , for she loved the young girl dearly , and would gladly have called her sister . 
But naught which she could say had the least effect , and Ellendetermined to see what she could do . 
She had been very indignant at first , to think a poor teacher should refuse her brother , and something of this spirit manifested itself during her interview with Marian . 
`` I am astonished at you , '' she said ; `` for , though we have ever treated you as our equal , you must know that in point of family you are not , and my brother has done what few young men in his standing would have done . 
Marian did not think it necessary to reply in substance to this long speech , neither did she , by word or look , resent Ellen 's overbearing manner ; but she answered , as she always did : `` I would marry your brother , if I could ; but I can not . '' 
All this trouble and excitement wore upon Marian , and after a time she became too ill to leave her room , where she kept her bed , sometimes fancying it all a dream -- sometimes resolving to tell the people who she was , and always weeping over the grief she had brought to William Gordon , who , during her illness , showed how noble and good he was by caring for her as tenderly as if she had indeed been his promised bride . 
He did not see her , but he made his presence felt in a thousand different ways , and when they told him how her tears would drop upon the fresh bouquets he sent her from the green-house every morning , he would turn away to keep his own from falling . 
I am not the light hearted man you parted with six years ago upon the college green ; for , since that dreadful night when I first knew poor Marian had fled , and thought she was in the river , I have not had a single moment of perfect peace or freedom from remorse . 
I have not spent more of her money either than I could help . 
Redstone Hall grew hateful to me -- it was haunted with so many bitter memories of her , and was , besides , the place where I sinned against her a second time by daring to think of another -- of Isabel . 
Left it because it was Marian 's and Riverside was my father 's , before Marian came to us ; so it did not seem quite so much like spending her money , for I did try to be a man and earn my own living . 
They needed me there a part of the time , at least ; and when , at last , I began to feel differently toward Marian , I felt less delicacy about her fortune , and I have spent my winters at Redstone Hall , where the negroes and the neighbors around all suppose Marian dead , for I have never told them that she was with me in New York . 
It all died out when I was sick , and centered itself upon that little sweet-faced girl , who , I know , was Marian , though I can not find her . 
Labor would not seem a hardship , if I knew that when my toil was done , there was a darling wife waiting for me at home -- a wife like what I hope my Marian is , and like what your Marian Grey may be . '' 
There is in all the world no Marian for me , '' said Will . 
Two weary heart-broken men , in the pride of their early manhood , sat talking each to the other , one of `` MyMarian , '' and one of `` Mine ; '' but never , never dreaming that the beautiful Marian Grey , so much beloved by William Gordon , was the lost Marian so greatly mourned by Frederic Raymond . 
As they were making their hasty toilet , Frederic said to Will : `` This is Marian 's twentieth birthday . '' 
`` It seems but yesterday since I saw her , a little girl in pantalets , with long curls streaming down her back . 
But neither thought of this , and they passed it on the opposite side of the street ; so that Will could , unobserved , point out Marian 's room to Frederic . 
But he looked in vain , for Marian had not yet risen . 
Pale , weary and weak , she reclined among her pillows , her fair hair falling about her face in beautiful disorder , and her eyes turned also toward the window , not because she knew that Frederic was looking in that direction , but because the morning sun was shining there , and she was watching it as it danced upon the curtain of bright crimson . 
`` I have seen the suns of twenty years , '' she thought , `` and I am growing old so fast . 
Marian asked , quickly , at the same time raising herself upon her elbow , and looking wistfully in the direction Frederic had gone . 
When she was alone , Marian buried her face in the bed-clothes , and murmured : `` Oh , if I could only see him ! 
She almost hoped he would , and claim her for his wife , as this , she fancied , might cure Will Gordon sooner than aught else which could be done . 
She was sure they would talk of her , for Frederic had bidden Will propose , and he would naturally ask the result of that proposal . 
Will would say she had refused him because she loved another , and would not something whisper to her husband that `` the other '' was himself -- that Marian Grey was his Marian -- the Marian of Redstone Hall -- and he would come to her that very day , perhaps , and all the morning she waited anxiously for a step she was certain she would know , though it might not be as elastic and bounding as of old , ere she had trammeled it with a heavy weight . 
This request Mrs. Sheldon made known to Marian , who asked , eagerly , if `` to-morrow would not do as well ? '' 
Marian sighed deeply , and turning upon her pillow tried to sleep , hoping thus to lose the throbbing pain in her head -- but it would not be lost ; and when , as it was growing dark , she heard the sound of feet upon the gravelled walk , and knew whose feet they were , it ached as it had not done before during the entire day . 
She heard them as they entered the lower hall , and fancied she saw Frederic place his hat and shawl upon the stand , and pass his fingers through his hair ere he entered the parlor , which was directly beneath her room . 
She knew when he was there , for she heard his well-remembered voice speaking to the children , and covering her face with her hands she wept aloud to think she should not see him . 
Somehow Will reminded him of Marian , for the two were associated together in his mind ; and he said , rather as a piece of news : `` Miss Day is sick -- up stairs she is ; and when I told her you was comin ' she vomuckedand cried so hard ! '' 
`` I mean to write her a note , '' he said , and sitting down by Will 's writing desk he took up a sheet of gilt edged paper and commenced , `` My dear Marian . '' 
True to his trust , Will gave the note to Marian the first time that he met her , after she was well enough to come down stairs as usual . 
`` It is from Mr. Raymond , '' he said , and Marian 's face was scarlet as she took it and looked into his eye with an eager , searching glance , to see if he knew her secret . '' 
But he did not , and with spirits which began to ebb , she broke the seal and read the few brief lines , half smiling as she thought how very formal and businesslike they were . 
But it was Frederic 's hand-writing , and when sure Will did not see her she pressed it to her lips . 
`` Sh -- sh , '' said Marian ; but the child persisted . 
Will Gordon was standing with his back to her , but , at this strange question , he turned quickly and fastened his eyes on Marian 's face , as if he would fathom her inmost soul . 
`` There 's something there , '' she said , passing the note again over her lips as if she would brush the `` something '' away . 
If so , why did she ? 
She could not be in love with a man she had never seen . 
She was not weak enough for that , and at last rejecting it as an impossibility and accepting the troublesome `` something '' as a reality , his mind became at rest upon that subject . 
Veryrapidly the Spring passed away , enlivened once by a short visit from Ben , who , having purchased an entire new suit of clothes for the occasion , looked and appeared unusually well , talking but little until he was alone with Marian , when his tongue was loosed , and he told her all he had come to tell . 
repeated Marian . 
Marian smiled at Ben 's simplicity , telling him that `` the chief value of the curtains consisted probably in their soiled , yellow appearance . '' 
Isabel 's curtains having been discussed at length , and herself described as Ben saw her `` struttin ' through the streets , '' he arose to go , telling Marian he should not probably see her again until he visited her in the Autumn at Riverside . 
Once Marian thought to tell him of William Gordon 's unfortunate attachment , particularly as he was loud in his praises of the young man ; but upon second reflections she decided to keep that matter to herself , hoping that the subject would never be mentioned to her again . 
And in this her wishes seemed to be realized , for as the weeks after Ben 's departure went by , William began to be more like himself than he had been before since her refusal of him . 
They would sail in about two weeks , and as Marian had positively declined to accompany them , they had engaged another governess , who was to meet them in New York . 
It was decided that Marian should remain a few days with Mrs. Gordon , and then go to Riverside , where her coming was anxiously expected both by Frederic and Alice . 
There would be no sister Ellen , with curious , prying eyes , for she was going with Mrs. Sheldon as far as New York -- no little girls always in the way -- no funny Fred , to see and tell of everything -- nobody , in short , but his good mother , who he knew would often leave him alone with Marian . 
She might be eventually won , and if so , he should care but little for the efforts made to win her . 
With this upon his mind , he felt rather relieved than otherwise when the family at last were gone , and Marian was an inmate of his mother 's house . 
Both Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon had urged him to accompany them , and he had made arrangements to do so in case he found Marian still firm in her refusal . 
He should know his fate before that time , he thought , and he strove in various ways to obtain an interview with Marian , who , divining his intention , was unusually reserved in her demeanor toward him , and if by chance she found herself with him alone , she invariably formed some excuse to leave the room , so that Will began at last to lose all hope , and to think seriously of joining his sister as the surest means of forgetting Marian Grey . 
`` She does not care for me , '' he said to his mother , one night after Marian had retired . 
To this his mother made no objection for though she would be very lonely without him , she was accustomed to rely upon herself , so she rather encouraged him than otherwise , thinking it would do him good . 
Accordingly , next morning , when Marian came down to breakfast , she was surprised to hear of Will 's intended departure . 
`` Oh , I am sorry , '' she said , involuntarily , for Will Gordon had a strong place in her affections , and knew not what danger might befall him on the deep . 
Breakfast being over , there remained to Will but half an hour , and as a part of this was necessarily spent with the servants , and in preparations for his journey , he had at the last but a few moments in which to say his farewell words to Marian . 
She was in the back parlor , his mother said , and there he found her weeping , for she felt that her friends were leaving her one by one , and though in a few days she was going back to her husband and her home , she knew not what the result would be . 
Marian did not answer , and with newly awakened hope Will drew nearer and seated himself beside her . 
Girls were strange beings , everybody said , '' and passing his arm around the weeping Marian , he whispered : `` Do you like me , then ? '' 
`` Yes , very , very much , '' she answered , `` and now that you are going away , and I may never see you again , I am so sorry I ever caused you a moment 's pain . '' 
`` I need n't go , Marian , '' William said , drawing her close to him . 
But it must be for you.Shall I , Marian ? 
and again Will Gordon poured into her ear deep burning words of love -- entreating her to be his wife -- to forget that other love so unworthy of her , and to give herself to him , who would cherish her so tenderly . 
Then he told her how the thought that she did not love him had made him go away , when he would so much rather remain where she was , if he could know she wished it . 
`` Answer me , Marian , '' he said , `` for time hastens , and if you tell me no again , I must be gone . 
Will paused for her reply , and looking into her face , which she had turned towards him , he thought he read a confirmation of his hopes , but the first words she uttered wrung his heart with cruel disappointment . 
`` I can not be your wife , '' she said . 
`` Then , listen , '' she said , `` and say if you will bid me marry you . 
`` Oh , Marian , Marian , this indeed is death itself ! '' 
`` Do not despise me for deceiving you , '' Marian continued . 
Marian 's confession was a death-blow to all Will had dared to hope , and he asked for the husband more as a matter of form than because he really cared to know . 
`` Mr. Gordon , '' said Marian , rising to her feet , and standing with her face turned fully toward him , `` MustI tell you more ? 
Wistfully , anxiously William gazed at her , scanning her features one by one , while a dim vision of something back in the past floated before him , but assumed no tangible form , and shaking his head , he answered : `` Never , to my knowledge . '' 
She did not need to say more . 
Little by little it had come to him , and , starting to his feet , he caught her hand , exclaiming , `` Great Heaven ! 
`` Yes , '' she answered , `` the lost Marian of Redstone Hall , '' and leaning her head upon his arm , she burst into tears , for he seemed to her like a brother now , while she to him -- He could not think of her as a sister yet -- he loved her too well for that ; but still his feelings toward her had changed in the great shock with which he recognized her . 
She could never be his Marian , he knew , neither did he desire it . 
she repeated bitterly . 
In her excitement , Marian clasped her hands together , and the blue of her eye grew deeper , darker , as she paid this tribute of gratitude to those who had been her friends indeed . 
`` Marian , '' he said again , `` you must go home . 
Go , Marian , go -- '' `` I am going , '' she answered , `` and if I only knew he wanted me -- wanted his wife -- '' `` He does want you , '' interrupted Will . 
`` He has told me so many a time , '' Marian was about to reply , when Mrs. Gordon appeared , warning her son that the carriage was at the door ; and with a hurried farewell to Marian and his mother , Will hastened off , whispering to the former , `` I shall write to you when on the sea -- '' `` And keep my secret safe . 
I would rather divulge it myself , '' she added . 
How do you do , and how 's Marian ? 
Has she gone to Riverside yet ? '' 
Will did not think it betrayed Marian 's confidence to talk of her with one who understood her affairs so much better than himself , and ere they reached New York , he had heard the whole story -- heard how Ben had stumbled upon her in New York , and taken her to his home without knowing aught of her , except that she was friendless and alone -- how the mother , now resting in her grave , had cared for the orphan girl , and how Ben , too , had done for her what he could . 
And Ben spoke truly , for it never occurred to him that he had denied himself as few men would have done -- toiling early and late , through sunshine and storm , wearing the old coat long after it was threadbare , and sometimes , when peddling , eating but two meals a day , by way of saving for Marian . 
He did not even think of it , or , if he did , he felt that he was more than paid in seeing Marian what she was . 
`` I certainly will not interfere in the matter , though before meeting you I was wondering how I could do so , and not betray Marian 's confidence . 
I am sure now it will all come right at last , and you ought to be permitted to bring it round in your own way , for you have been a true friend to her , and I dare say she loves you as a brother . '' 
This was touching Ben on a tender point , for his old affection for Marian was not quite dead yet , and Will 's last words brought back to him memories of those dreary winter nights , when in his way he had battled with the love he knew he must not cherish for Marian Grey . 
`` Bless her , she 's an angel , '' he managed at last to say , adding , as he met the inquiring glance of Will : `` It 's my misfortin ' to be oncommon tender-hearted , and when I git to thinkin ' of somethin' that concerns nobody but me , I ca n't keep from cryin ' no way you can fix it , '' and two undeniable tears rolled down his cheeks and dropped from the end of his nose . 
`` Nobody writes to me but Marian , and I ai n't expectin ' nothin ' from her , but I guess I may as well go . '' 
Heaven bless you , Ben Burt , for all you have been to her . 
She is one of the fairest , best , of God 's creation , but she was not meant for you nor me ; and we must learn to go our way without her . 
You have done for her more , perhaps , than either Mr. Raymond or myself would have done in the same circumstances , and thus far you are more worthy of her esteem . 
`` That hits me exactly , '' he said , `` though I never thought of callin ' that hole in my heart a grave -- but ` taint nothin ' else , for I buried somethin' in it , and the tender brotherly feelin ' I 've felt for Marian ever since was the grave stun I set up in memory of what had been . 
But what does he know about it , though why should n't he , for no mortal man can look in Marian 's face and not feel kinder cold and hystericky-like at the pit of his stomach ! 
Yes , he 's in love with her , and that 's the way she came to tell who she was . 
Meantime Marian at Mrs. Gordon 's was half regretting that she had told her secret to William , and greatly lamenting that they had been interrupted ere she knew just how much Frederic wished to find her . 
That his feelings toward her had changed , she was sure , but she would know by word and deed that he loved her ere she revealed herself to him , and the dark mystery of that cruel letter must be explained before she could respect him as she had once done . 
And now but a few days remained ere she should see him face to face , for she was going to Riverside very soon . 
Some acquaintance of hers were going west by way of New York , and she decided to accompany them , though by soing doing she would reach Riverside one day earlier than she was expected . 
`` I am sorry to leave you , '' Marian said , when the last moment came , `` but I am so glad I am going , too , sometime , perhaps , you may know why and then you will not blame me . '' 
She could not shed a tear although she had become greatly attached to her Springfield home , and her excitement continued unabated until she reached New York , where they stopped for the night . 
There were several hours of daylight left , and stealing away from her friends she took a Third Avenue car and went up to their old house where strangers were living now . 
She did not care to go in , for the dingy , uncurtained windows looked far from inviting , and she passed slowly down the other side of the street , musing upon all that had passed since the night when she first climbed those narrow stairs , and asked a mother 's care from Mrs. Burt . 
Marian dreaded this test more than all the rest , for she felt that there was danger in the instinct of the blind girl . 
Slowly she retraced her steps and returning to the Astor , sought her own room , informing her friends that she was weary and would rest . 
`` Five hours more , '' was her first thought when she awoke next morning from a sounder sleep than she had supposed it possible to enjoy when under such excitement . 
Two trunks marked `` M. G. '' stood upon the platform , and near them a figure in black , bowing to her friends , who leaned from the car window , and holding in her hands a satchel , a silk umbrella , two checks , her purse , and a book , for Marian possessed the weakness of her sex , and in traveling always carried the usual amount of baggage . 
`` To Riverside , '' she said , when asked where she wished to go , and she looked around as if half expecting a familiar face . 
But she looked in vain , and in a few moments she was comfortably seated in the lumbering stage , which once before had carried her up that long hill . 
Eagerly she strained her eyes to catch the first view of the house ; and when at last it came in sight , she was too intent upon it to observe the showily-dressed young lady tripping along upon the walk , and holding her skirts with her thumb and finger so as to show her dainty slipper . 
But if Marian did not see Isabel , Isabel saw her . 
`` Black , '' she said , as Marian stepped upon the ground ; `` But I might have known it , for regular built teachers always wear black , I believe . 
On the whole , she 's quite genteel for a governess , '' and Isabel walked on while Marian went up the graveled walk , expecting at each step to meet with either Frederic or Alice . 
The door was shut , and even after the driver had placed her trunks upon the piazza and gone , Marian stood there ringing the bell . 
The window to her right was open , and she knew it was the window of Frederic 's room , but he was not sitting near it , and after a little she ventured to approach it and look in . 
Its prim , neat appearance affected Marian unpleasantly , as if it were the furerunner of some disappointment , and going back to the door she resolutely pulled the silver knob . 
The loud , sharp ring made her heart beat violently , and when she heard a heavy tread , not unlike a man 's coming up the basement stairs , she thought , `` What if it is Frederic himself ? 
`` It is Frederic , '' she continued , as the step came nearer , and she was wishing she could run away and hide , when the door was opened by Mrs. Russell , her feet encased in a pair of Mr. Raymond 's cast-off shoes , which accounted for her heavy tread , and herself looking a little crest-fallen at the sight of her visitor , whom she recognized at once . 
This was said in an under-tone , but it caught the ear of Marian , who , now that she had a chance to speak , asked for Mr. Raymond , timidly , as if fearful that with his name her sacret might slip out . 
In the absence of Frederic and Alice , she had counted upon a day of leisure , which Marian 's arrival had seriously interrupted . 
`` I beg you not to trouble yourself for me , '' said Marian , who readily understood the matter . 
The old lady 's face brightened perceptibly , and she replied : `` Oh , I do n't mind a cup of tea , and the like o ' that ; but to brile or stew this hot day ai n't so pleasant , when a person is fleshy , as I am . 
Yes , that 's the door -- right there ; '' and Mrs. Russell went back to the making of her dress , while Marian sought her chamber , feeling rather disappointed at the absence of both Frederic and Alice , whose object in visiting New York , that day , will be explained in the succeeding chapter , and will necessarily take us backward for a little in our story . 
`` Frederic , '' said Alice , about six weeks before Marian 's arrival at Riverside , `` who hired that Mrs. Merton to take care of you when you were sick at the hotel ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' returned Alice ; `` but some person must have recommended her , and if you can ascertain who that person was , you may find Mrs. Merton , and learn something of Marian . '' 
`` I wonder I never thought of that before , '' said Frederic , adding , `` that if Alice had her sight he believed she would have discovered Marian ere this . '' 
`` A letter from Iowa , '' said Frederic to Alice , as he came in from the office , on the very night when Marian was walking slowly past what was once her home . 
Wo n't Marian be surprised to see us both . 
I hope she 'll come to the door herself ; and Frederic , if she does , you 'll kiss her , wo n't you , and act like you was glad , for if you do n't , may be she wo n't come back with us . '' 
Do you suppose they 'll like each other , Marian and Miss Grey ? '' 
`` Mr. Gordon and Ben say so , '' returned Frederic , and Alice continued : `` Do n't be angry with me , but you loved Isabel the best because she was the handsomest , and now you wo n't love Miss Grey better than Marian , will you , and you 'll be Marian 's husband right off , wo n't you ? '' 
`` When Marian comes here , it will be as my wife , '' said Frederic , and with this answer Alice was satisfied . 
`` I wish it would grow dark faster , '' she said , for she could tell when it was night ; and Frederic , while listening to the many different ways she conjured up for them to meet Marian , became almost as impatient as herself for the morrow , when his renewed hopes might , perhaps , be realized . 
`` It is n't a bit likely Miss Grey will come to-day , '' said Alice , as she followed Frederic to the carriage ; and , confident of this , they gave Miss Grey no further thought , but went on their way in search of Marian . 
He could not wait for her uncertain footsteps , and pale with excitement , he caught her in his arms and hurried up the narrow stairs , which many a time had creaked to Marian 's tread . 
But Frederic did not move -- there was a spell upon him , and for several moments it kept him there in the very room where Marian had wept so many tears for him , and where , in her desolation , she had asked that she might die when the greatest sorrow she had ever known came upon her -- the sorrow brought by Isabel 's cruel letter . 
There close to where he stood was the door of the little room where for weeks and months she had lain , tossing in her feverish pain , while over her Ben Burt kept his tireless watch , nor asked for greater reward than to know that she would live . 
`` That was Marian , '' whispered Alice ; and Frederic continued : `` Where are they now ? '' 
Frederic was too much interested in Marian to hear anything else , and he paid no attention to her mention of a boy . 
Marian was all he wished to find , but it was in vain that he questioned and cross-questioned the woman . 
She had given all the information she could ; and with an increased feeling of disappointment he left her , glancing once more into the room where he was sure Marian had lived . 
Alice , too , was willing to stop there now ; and when Frederic told her of the geranium and the kitten he had once seen in the window , a smile mingled with her tears , and she wished she had them now , especially the kitten ! 
She did not know that the matronly-looking cat , which , behind the broken stove , was purring sleepily , was the same Maltese kitten Marian had fondled so often . 
At the time of leaving she had given it to an acquaintance near by , but pussy preferred her old haunts , and returning to them , persisted in remaining there until the arrival of the new comers , who took her in , and she now daily shared the meagre fare of the three children by the window . 
Intuitively , as it were , she felt that Alice was a lover of her race , and she came towards her , purring loudly , and rubbing against her side . 
He felt it keenly , for never had his hopes of finding Marian been raised to a higher pitch than that morning , and even now he could not give it up . 
He could not obtain the least clue to her , and he retraced his steps with a feeling that she was as really lost to him as if Sarah Green 's letter had been true and Marian resting in her grave . 
Somebody knew of Marian , and there was a mystery connected with it -- a mystery of wrong it might me . 
Perhaps she could not come back , even though she wanted to , and his pulses quickened with painful rapidity as he thought of all the imaginary terrors which might surround the lost one . 
NotwithstandingAlice 's fears the day had not been a long one to Marian , who had been so occupied in unpacking her trunks and in going over the house and grounds , as scarcely to heed the lapse of time , and she was surprised when , about sunset , she saw John drive from the yard , and knew he was going for his master . 
Not till then did she fully realize her position , and she sought her chamber to compose herself , for the dreaded trial , which each moment came nearer and nearer . 
she asked herself a dozen times , and as often answered no -- but Alice , ah , Alice , there was danger to be apprehended from her , and Marian felt that she would far rather meet the scrutinizing gaze of Frederic Raymond 's eyes than submit herself to the touch of the blind girl 's fingers , or trust her voice to the blind girl 's ear . 
Won by her voice , the cat sprang up on Marian 's lap just as Frederic glanced hastily in . 
`` Miss Grey , I believe ; '' and bowing low , Frederic Raymond advanced towards Marian , who now stood up , so that the blaze of the chandelier fell full upon her , revealing at once her face and form . 
Had her very life depended upon it she could not have spoken then , for the stormy emotions the name `` Miss Grey '' called up , mastered her speech entirely . 
She knew he would thus address her , but it grated harshly on her ear to hear him call her so , and her heart yearned for the familiar name of Marian , though she had no reason to expect it from him . 
This gave her a little time , and conquering her weakness she extended her hand to take the one he offered . 
For an instant he held it there , and gazed down into her sweet , childish face , which did not look wholly unfamiliar to him , while she herself seemed more like a friend than a total stranger . 
The tie between them , which naught but death could sever , and which was bound so closely around Marian 's heart , brought to his own an answering throb , and when at last she spoke , assuring him that she had not been lonely in the least , he started , for there was something in the tone which moved him as a stranger off is moved , when hearing in the calm , still night the air of `` Home , Sweet Home . '' 
Ben was next talked about , and Marian was growing eloquent in his praise , when suddenly a sight met her view which pretrified her powers of speech and sent the hot blood ebbing backward from her cheek and lip . 
In the hall without and where Frederic could not see her , the blind girl stood , her hands clasped and slightly raised , her lips apart , her eyes rolling , her head bent forward , and her ear turned toward the door , whence came the sound which had arrested her footsteps and chained her to the spot . 
She had started for the parlor and come thus far , when she , too , caught the tone which had affected even Frederic , and her head grew dizzy with the bewildering sound , for to her it brought memories of Marian . 
Had she come ? 
Was she there with Frederic and Miss Grey ? 
It came again , the old familiar strain , though tuned to a sadder note , for Marian had suffered much since last she talked with Alice , and it was perceptible even in her voice . 
Tighter and tighter the small hands pressed together -- lower and lower bent the head , while a shade of disappointment flitted over the face of the listening child , for this time it did not seem quite so natural as at first , and she knew , too , that 't was Miss Grey who spoke , for her subject was Ben Butterworth . 
Marian pointed toward the spot where Alice stood , but ere Frederic had time to step forward , the loud ring of the bell started Alice from an attitude which , had Frederic Raymond seen it , would surely have led to a discovery . 
`` The little girl , she acts so singular , '' said Marian , thinking she must make some explanation . 
`` In a moment , '' said Frederic , and leading Alice up to Marian , he continued , `` Your teacher , '' and then left the two together . 
For an instant there was perfect silence , and Marian knew the blind girl could hear the beating of her heart , while she in turn watched the wonder and perplexity written on the speaking face turned upward toward her own , the brown eyes riveted upon her , as if for once they had broken from their prison walls and could discern what was before them . 
how Marian longed to take the little , helpless creature in her arms ; to hug her , to kiss her , to cry over her , and tell her of the love which had never known one moment 's abatement during the long years of their separation . 
But she dared not ; and she sat gazing at her to see if she had changed since the night when she left her sleeping so quietly in their dear old room at home . 
She was now nearly thirteen , but her figure was so slight , and her features so child like , that few would have guessed her more than nine , unless they judged by her mature , womanly mind . 
To Marian she seemed the same ; and when , unable longer to restrain herself , she drew the child to her , and , kissing her forehead , said to her kindly , `` You are Alice , my pupil , I am sure . 
asked Marian ; and Alice replied : `` Second cousin , that 's all . 
But he has been more than a brother to me since -- since -- '' The perplexed , mystified look increased on Alice 's face , and her gaze grew more intense as she continued : `` Since Marian went away . '' 
There was a moment 's stillness , and then the hand which hitherto had rested on Marian 's lap was raised until it reached the head , where it lay lightly , very lightly , though to Marian it seemed like the weight of a thousand pounds , and she felt every hair prickle at its root when the blind girl said to her : `` Ai n't you Marian ? '' 
was the answer , spoken so deliberately that Marian was astonished at herself . 
There was a wavering then in the brown eyes , a quivering of the lids , and the great tears rolled down Alice 's cheeks , for with this calm reply , uttered so naturally , the hope she had scarcely dared to cherish passed away , and she murmured sadly : `` It can not be her . '' 
asked Marian , choking back her own tears , which were just ready to flow , and which did gush forth in torrents , when Alice answered : `` Oh , I wish I was n't blind to-night ! '' 
This surely was a good cause for weeping and pressing the little one to her bosom , Marian wept over her passionately for a few moments ; then , drying her eyes , she said : `` Why to-night more than any other time ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' answered Marian ; and the fingers wandered slowly , cautiously , over every feature , involuntarily caressing the fair , round cheek , but lingering longest on the hair -- the beautiful hair -- whose glossy waves were perceptible even to the touch . 
she asked , winding one of the curls around her finger . 
she suddenly asked , and Marian tried to laugh , although every nerve was thrilling with fear , for she knew she was passing through a dangerous test . 
`` Rather tall , '' she replied , standing up , `` Yes , very tall , some would say . 
asked Marian , and then the sobs of the child burst forth unrestrained . 
Burying her face in Marian 's lap , she cried , `` Yes -- no -- I do n't know what I thought , only you do n't seem to me like I supposed you would . 
Never before had Marian heard a murmur from the lips of the unfortunate child , and it seemed to her cruel not to whisper words of comfort in her ear . 
But she could not do it yet , and so she kissed her tenderly , saying , `` Did you love this other one so very much ? '' 
`` Perhaps it did n't look so then , '' suggested Marian , who felt constrained to say a word in favor of her former home . 
and Marian started eagerly . 
`` Yes , '' said Alice , `` Frederic gave three dollars for it , '' and forgetting her late grief in this new interest , she told how they knew it was Marian 's , and then as Miss Grey expressed a wish to see it , she started in quest of it , just as Frederic appeared , telling them tea was ready . 
`` It did n't matter , '' Marian relpied ; though she had wondered a little at the non-appearance of supper , for Mrs. Russell , intent upon her dress , had no idea of `` makin ' two fusses , '' and she kept her visitor waiting until the return of Frederic , saying , `` the supper would taste all the better when it did come . '' 
Very willingly Marian followed Frederic to the dining-room , where everything was indicative of elegance and wealth . 
Marian became her new position well , and so Frederic thought , as he saw how gracefully her snowy fingers handled the silver urn , and how much at home she seemed . 
There was a strange fascination about her as she sat there at the head of his table , with the bright bloom on her cheek , and the dewy lustre in her beautiful blue eyes , which occasionally wandered toward the figure opposite , but as often fell beneath the curious gaze which they encountered . 
Frederic could not forbear looking at her , even though he saw that it embarrassed her -- she was so fresh , so fair , so modest -- while there was about her an indescribable something which he could not define , for though a stranger , as he supposed , she seemed near to him -- so near that he almost felt he had a right to pass his arm around her , and kiss the girlish lips which Will Gordon had likened to a rose-bud . 
Involuntarily his mind went back to Redstone Hall , and to the time when another Marian sat opposite , and did for him the office this one was doing . 
`` I think there 's no need of that , '' returned Marian , stroking her soft coat . 
`` Marian , I reckon , only you might not want her named after you , and it would n't be , for it 's the other one . '' 
`` I have n't the least objection , '' said Miss Grey , laughing , `` only Marian will sound oddly . 
`` Yes , Alice , let that be the name , '' said a voice behind them , and turning , Marian saw Frederic , who had all the time been standing near and watching them as like two children they knelt together by the candle box and gave the cat its milk -- Marian and Alice , side by side , just as they used to be of old -- just as Frederic had seen them many a time . 
The tall , beautiful girl before him bore no resemblance to the Marian of Redstone Hall , and still nothing she did seemed strange or new to him . 
`` I certainly have dreamed of her , '' he said , when lifting up her head she shook back from her face the clustering curls , and smiled on Alice as she used to do . 
This conclusion was entirely satisfactory , and she returned with the girls to the parlor , while `` Spottie '' followed after , hovering near to Marian , whose low spoken words and gentle caresses had reawakened the affection which had perhaps been dormant during the last year . 
said Frederic , and without a word of apology , Marian seated herself at the piano , whose rich , mellow tones roused her enthusiasm at once , and she played more than usually well , while Alice stood by listening eagerly , and Frederic looked on , scarce heeding the stirring notes , so intent was he upon the dimpled hands which swept the keys so skillfully . 
Suddenly he started , for he remembered the when and the where -- remembered , too , that Alice , when told of the girl with the brown vail , had said to him , `` Wa n't that our Marian ? '' 
The question was a startling one , but Marian 's face was turned from him , and he could not see the effort she made to answer him calmly . 
Marian trembled violently , but by constantly turning the leaves of her music book , she managed to conceal her agitation , and when Frederic ceased speaking , she answered in her natural tone , `` Now that you recall the circumstances , I believe I do remember something about it , though you do not look as that man did . 
I imagined he had been sick , or was in trouble , '' and Marian 's blue eyes turned sideways to witness , if possible , the effect of her words . 
But she was disappointed , for she could not see how white Frederic was for a single instant , but she felt it in his voice , as he replied : `` You are right . 
`` Was n't that when you were looking for Marian ? '' 
`` Yes , I was hunting for Marian , '' was the answer ; and the deep sigh which accompanied the words brought a thrill of joy to the Marian hunted for , and she knew now , and from his own lips , too , that he had sought for her , nay , that he was looking for her even then , when in her anger she censured him for not recognizing her . 
Little by little she was learning the truth just as it was ; and when at a late hour she bade Frederic good night , and went to her own chamber , her heart was almost too full for utterance , for she felt that the long , dark night was over , and the dawn she had waited for so long was breaking at last around her . 
`` It was almost as nice as if Marian really were there , '' she said ; and she came twice to kiss her governess , while on her face was a most satisfied expression , as she nestled among her pillows and listened to the footsteps in the adjoining chamber where Marian made her nightly toilet . 
`` Oh , I wish she 'd let me sleep with her , '' she thought . 
`` It would be a heap more like having Marian back . '' 
And , when all was still , she stepped upon the floor and glided to the bedside of Marian , who was not aware of her approach until a voice whispered in her ear : `` May I stay here with you ? 
I 've been making believe that you was Marian -- our Marian , I mean -- and I want to sleep with you so much just as I used to do with her -- may I ? '' 
`` Yes , darling , '' was the answer , as Marian folded her arms lovingly around the neck of the blind girl , whose soft , warm cheek was pressed against her own . 
And there , just as they were used to do in the old Kentucky home , ere sorrow had come to either , they lay side by side , Marian and Alice , the one dreaming sweet dreams of the Marian come back to her again ; and the other , that to her the gates of Paradise were opened , and she saw the glory shining through , just as in Frederic Raymond 's eyes she had seen the glimmer of the love-light which was yet to overshadow her and brighten her future pathway . 
Itwas a joyful waking which came to Marian next morning , and when fresh and glowing from her invigorating bath she descended to the piazza she was surprised at finding Frederic there before her , looking haggard and pale , as if the boon of sleep had been denied to him . 
After Marian and Alice had bidden him good night , he , too , had retired to his room , which was directly under theirs ; and sitting in his arm-chair , he had listened to the footsteps above , readily distinguishing one from the other , and experiencing unconsciously a vague , delicious feeling of comfort in knowing that the long-talked of Marian Grey had come to him at last , and that she was even more beautiful than he had imagined her to be from Will Gordon 's glowing description . 
He would keep her with him , too , he said , until the other one was found , if that should ever be : and then , as the footsteps and the murmur of voices in the chamber above him ceased , and all about the house was still , his heart went out after the other one , demanding of the solitude around to show him where she was -- to lead him to her so that he could bring her back to the home where each day he was wanting her more and more . 
And then , as he sought his pillow , he went back again in fancy to that feverish sick-room , and the tender love which alone had saved him from death ; while mingled with this remembrance were confused thoughts of the vailed maiden in the corner of the car -- of the geranium growing in the window , and of Marian Grey , who seemed a part of every thing -- for , turn which way he would , her blue eyes were sure to shine upon him ; and once , when , for a few moments , he fell into a troubled sleep , she said to him , `` I am the Marian you seek . '' 
Marian hardly knew how to reply , for though she longed to hear what he had to say of Mrs. Raymond , she scarcely dared trust herself to question him . 
Frederic started , and walking off a few paces , replied , `` Marian dead ! 
and he came back to Marian , looking at her so earnestly that she colored deeply , as she replied : `` Mr. Gordon told me something of her ; and I had the impression that -- '' She did not know how to finish the sentence , and she was glad to hear a little , uncertain step upon the stairs , as that was an excuse for her to break off abruptly , and go to Alice , who had come down in quest of her , expressing much surprise that she should rise so early and dress so quietly . 
I heard her asking Mrs. Russell last week if you were pretty , and she said -- '' `` Never mind what she said , '' suggested Marian adding laughingly , `` I have heard of Miss Huntington before . 
He saw her in Kentucky , you knew ; so you see , I am tolerably well posted in your affairs ; '' and she turned towards Frederic , who was about to answer , when Alice , who had climbed into a chair , and was standing with her arm around the young man 's neck , chimed in : `` If Mr. Gordon told you that Frederic liked her , it is n't so , for he do n't ; do you , Frederic ? '' 
`` I like all the ladies , '' was his reply ; and the breakfast bell just then rang , the conversation ceased , and they entered the house together , Alice holding fast to Marian 's hand , and dancing along like a joyous bird . 
`` I am , '' she replied . 
`` I 'm most as happy as I should be if we had found Marian yesterday . 
Would n't it be splendid if this were really Marian , and would n't you be glad ? '' 
And Marian was not sorry , for nothing could please her better than rambling with Alice over what was once her home . 
Very rapidly the first few days passed away , and ere a week had gone by , Marian understood tolerably well the place which Marian Lindsey occupied in her husband 's affections , and she needed not the letter received from William Gordon to tell her that the Frederic Raymond of to-day was not the same from whose presence she had once fled with a breaking heart . 
He was greatly changed , and if she had loved him in the early days of her girlhood , her heart clung to him now with an affection tenfold stronger than she had ever known before . 
Alice liked nothing better than to talk of Marian , and one afternoon , when Frederic was in New York , and the two girls were sitting together in their pleasant chamber , she told her sad story in her own childish way , accepting her companion 's tears , which fell like rain as tokens of sympathy for the lost one . 
`` Frederic cried just like he was a woman , '' she said , `` when he came up from the river , cold , and wet , and sick , and told us they could not find her . 
I remember , too , how he groaned when I asked him what made her kill herself ; she did n't , though , '' she added quickly , as she heard Marian 's exclamation of horror at the very idea ; `` she was n't even dead , but we thought she was , and we mourned for her so much . 
Marian asked . 
Alice did not reply immediately , and as Marian saw the shadow which flitted over her face , she pressed her hands together nervously , for she fancied that she knew what Redstone Hall was like when Isabel , her rival , came . 
At Marian 's remark she started , and with the same dreamy , perplexed look upon her face , replied : `` Perhaps I ought not to tell ; but you seem so near to me that I do n't believe Frederic would care . 
`` He loved her a heap better than he did poor dear Marian , who somehow found it out that night , and rather than be his wife when he did n't want her , she ran away , you know . '' 
`` Yes , yes , I know , '' gasped Marian , while Alice , little dreaming how well she knew , continued , `` And so when Isabel came , he could n't help loving her some , I suppose , though Dinah thought he could , and she used to scold mightily when she heard her singing and playing , as she did all the time , so as to get Frederic in there , '' and Alice 's tone and manner were so much like old Dinah and so highly expressive of her meaning , that Marian could not forbear smiling . 
`` I talked to Frederic one night , '' said Alice , `` and told him I did n't believe Marian was dead , and I reckon I made him think so , too , for he promised he would wait for her ten years . '' 
`` Will he marry then , if he does not find her ? '' 
Marian asked by way of calling out the little girl , who replied : `` I suppose he wo n't live all his life alone ; at any rate , he said he would n't . 
and Alice started so quickly that Marian started , too ; `` I 'd a heap rather Marian would be his wife than anybody , because he married her first ; but if she do n't come back , ca n't you guess what I wish would be ? '' 
and Alice wound her arms around the neck of Marian , who did guess , but could not embody her guessing in words . 
`` Did Mr. Raymond never hear from her ? '' 
she asked , and resuming her seat , Alice replied : `` Yes , and that 's the mystery . 
exclaimed Marian , starting quickly . 
`` In New York , '' answered Alice ; and Marian listened breathlessly to the story of her supposed decease , wondering , as Frederic had often done , whence the letter came , and why it had been sent . 
`` It must have been a plan of Ben 's to see what he would do , '' she thought ; and she listened again , with burning cheeks and beating heart , while Alice told of Frederic 's grief when he read that she was dead . 
Then she told how sometime after she had interrupted Frederic in the parlor , just as he was asking Isabel to be his wife , and had almost convinced him again of Marian 's existence . 
`` Blessed Alice , '' said Marian , involuntarily . 
If I had n't been blind I should have cried myself so those dreadful days when we expected to hear Frederic was dead , for next to Marian I love him the best . 
He 's real good to me now ; and when I asked him once what made him pet me so much more than he used to , he said , ` Because our dear , lost Marian loved you , and you loved her . '' ' 
Did he call her his ` dear , lost Marian ? '' ' 
`` I knew she 'd call , '' said Alice . 
`` She wants to see how you look ; but I do n't care , for Frederic says you 're a heap the handsomest ; I asked him last night after you quit playing , and had left the room . '' 
The knowledge that Frederic Raymond preferred her face to that of Isabel , rendered Marian far more self-possessed than she would otherwise have been , as she went down to meet her visitor , whose call was prompted from mere curiosity , and not from any friendliness she felt towards Marian Grey . 
Isabel had heard much of Marian 's beauty from those who met her since her arrival at Riverside , and she had come to see if rumor were correct . 
The story of Marian 's existence she had repudiated at first and in the excitement of going south , and the incidents connected with her sojourn there , she had failed to speak of it even to Mrs. Rivers , choosing rather to make her friends believe that she had deliberately refused the owner of Redstone Hall . 
`` Let her be what she will , Frederic ca n't marry her , and that 's some consolation , '' she thought , just as a tripping footstep announced the approach of Marian , and , assuming her haughtiest manner , she arose , and bowed to Frederic Raymond 's wife . 
They had met before , but there was no token of recognition between them now , and as strangers they greeted each other , Marian 's hand trembling slightly as she offered it to Isabel -- for she knew that this was not their first meeting . 
With great effort Marian concealed her agitation , and answered carelessly the first few common-place remarks addressed to her , as to how she liked Riverside , and if this were her first visit there . 
`` No , '' she answered to this last question -- `` I came here once with Ben , who , you remember , was once at Redstone Hall . '' 
After a little , she spoke of Mr. Raymond , asking Marian , finally , what she thought of him , and saying she supposed she knew he was a married man . 
asked Marian , for the sake of hearing her visitor 's remarks . 
Marian asked , faintly , and , affecting to be embarrassed , Isabel replied : `` It would be unbecoming in meto say what the nature of it was , and I referred to it thoughtlessly . 
Marian understood her at once , and was glad that Isabel was too intent upon an engraving to observe her agitation . 
Such were the thoughts which flashed upon Marian 's mind and destroyed at once her half-formed resolution of telling Frederic that night . 
She did not know Isabel , and she could not understand why she should be guilty of a falsehood to her -- a perfect stranger . 
Narrowly Marian watched him , marvelling somewhat at his perfect self-possession ; for Isabel was to him an object of such indifference that he experienced far less emotion in meeting her than in speaking to Marian Grey , and asking if she had been lonely . 
asked Frederic , giving to Marian a smile which sent the hot blood tingling to her finger tips . 
Marian pitied Frederic then , he turned so white ; and she almost hated Isabel , as she saw the malicious triumph in her eye . 
and a part of Isable 's assurance left her , for she felt that his searching for his wife was a reality with him ; while Marian 's heart grew hopeful and warm again , as she listened to Frederic Raymond telling Isabel Huntington of that dear old room which had been her home so long . 
`` I ca n't conceive what made her run away , '' said Isabel , fixing her large , glittering eyes upon Frederic , who coolly replied , `` I can , '' and then turning to Marian he abruptly commenced a conversation upon an entirely different subject . 
Biting her lip with vexation , Isabel arose to go , saying she should expect to see Miss Grey at her own house , and that she hoped she would sometimes bring Mr. Raymond with her . 
From this time forth Isabel was a frequent visitor at Riverside , where she always managed to say something which seriously affected Marian 's peace of mind and led her to distrust the man who was beginning to feel far more interest in the Marian found than in the Marian lost . 
Though professing the utmost regard for Miss Grey she did not hesitate to speak against her when an opportunity occurred , but her shafts fell harmlessly , for where Marian was known she was esteemed and the wily woman gave up the contest at last and waited anxiously to see the end . 
Towards the last of October , Ben , who was now a petty grocer in a New England village , came to Riverside for the first time since Marian 's residence there . 
Never before had he appeared so happy , and his honest face was all aglow with his delight at seeing Marian at last where she belonged . 
`` You fit in like an odd scissor , '' he said to her when they were alone . 
`` Not yet , '' returned Marian . 
Marian replied by telling him of the letter from Sarah Green and asking if he could explain it . 
But it was all a mystery to him , and he puzzled his brain with it for a long time , deciding at last that it might have come from some of her Kentucky acquaintance who chanced to be in New York , and sent it just for mischief . 
Marian went in quest of her , and on her return found Alice with Ben , who , in her presence , dared not manifest all that he felt at sight of his old friend . 
Marian could not forbear laughing aloud , and as Ben joined with her , it served to keep him from crying outright , as he otherwise might have done . 
This suggestion was warmly seconded by Marian , and as Alice finally yielded the point , Ben carried Spottie off the next morning , promising the little girl that it should be well cared for in her absence . 
If they met with no delays they would reach Redstone Hall on the anniversary of Marian 's bridal , and to her it seemed meet that on this day of all others she should return again to her old home , and she wondered if Frederic , too , would think of it or send one feeling of regret after his missing bride . 
`` We are here at last , '' said Frederic , when they stopped before the depot ; and he touched the arm of Marian , who sat leaning against a window , her head bent down , and her thoughts in such a wild tumult that she scarcely comprehended what she was doing or where she was . 
During the entire journey she had labored under the highest excitement , which manifested itself sometimes in snatches of merry songs , sometimes in laughter almost hysterical , and again when no one saw her , in floods of tears , which failed to cool her feverish impatience . 
It seemed to her she could not wait , and she counted every mile-stone , while her breath came faster and faster as she knew they were almost there . 
With a shudder she glanced at the clump of trees under whose shadow she had hidden six years before , and those who noticed her face as she passed out marvelled at its deathly pallor . 
`` Jest gone with consumption , '' was Phil 's mental comment ; and he wondered at the eager , curious glance which she gave to him . 
Marian did not try longer to conceal her delight , and Frederic watched her wonderingly , as with glowing cheeks and beaming eyes she looked first from one window and then from the other , the color deepening on her face and the pallor increasing about her mouth , as way-mark after way-mark was passed and recognized . 
`` You seem very much excited , '' he said to her at last ; and , assuming as calm a manner as possible , she replied : `` For years back the one cherished object of my life was to visit Kentucky ; and now that I am really here , I am so glad ! 
and Frederic could see the gladness shining in her eyes , and making her so wondrously beautiful to look upon that he was sorry when the twilight shadows began to fall , and partially obscured his vision . 
But Marian had seen them first , and when as they turned a corner , the entire building came in view , she sank back upon the cushion , dizzy and sick with the thoughts which came crowding so fast upon her . 
And Marian saw everything -- heard everything -- and when the horses ' hoofs struck upon the bridge , where once they fancied she had stood and plunged into eternity , an icy chill ran through her frame , depriving her of the power to speak or move . 
Through the dim twilight she saw the dusky forms gathered expectantly around the cabin doors -- saw the full , rounded figure of Dinah on the piazza -- saw the vine-wreathed pillar where six years ago that very night , she had leaned with a breaking heart , and wept her passionate adieu to the man , who , sitting opposite to her now , little dreamed of what was passing in her mind . 
Frederic knew that his services were no longer needed , and after glancing about the room to see that everything was right , he went down stairs leaving Marian to the care of Dinah , who , as her patient began to show signs of returning consciousness , undressed her as soon as possible and placed her in the bed , herself sitting by and bathing her face and hands in camphor and cologne . 
The fainting fit had passed away , but it was succeeded by a feeling of such delicious languor that for a long time Marian lay perfectly still , thinking how nice it was to be again in her old room with Dinah sitting by , and once as the hard , black hand rested on her forehead , she took it between her own , murmuring involuntarily , `` Dear Aunt Dinah , I thank you so much . '' 
Twice that evening there came up the stairs a cautious step which stopped always at the door , and Dinah as often as she answered the gentle knock , came back to Marian and said , `` It 's marster axin ' is you any wus . '' 
`` Tell him I am only tired , not sick , '' Marian would say , and turning on her pillow , she wept great tears of joy to think that Frederic should thus care for her . 
Then , indeed , Marian moved as if about to waken , and the blind girl thought she heard her say , `` Darling Alice , '' but she was not sure , and she nestled down beside her , sleeping ere long the dreamless sleep which always came to her after a day of unusual fatigue . 
The rosy dawn was just stealing into the room , next morning , when Marian awoke with a vague , uncertain feeling as to where she was , or what had happened . 
Ere long , however , she remembered it all ; and , stepping upon the floor , she glided to the window , to feast her eyes once more upon her home . 
Before her lay the garden , and though the November frosts had marred its Summer glory , it was still beautiful to her ; and , hastily dressing herself , she went forth to visit her olden haunts , strolling leisurely on until she reached a little Summer-house which had been built since she was there . 
Over the door were some pencil marks , in Frederic 's hand writing ; and though the rains had partly washed the letters away , there were still enough remaining for her to know that `` Marian Lindsey '' had been written there . 
`` He has sometimes thought of me , '' she said ; and she was about entering the arbor , when there rose upon the air a terrific yell , which , had she been an intruder , would have sent her flying from the spot . 
But she did not even tremble , and she awaited fearlessly the approach of the huge creature , which , bristling with rage , came tearing down the graveled walk , his eyeballs glowing like coals of fire , and his head lowered as if ready for attack . 
Bruno was still on guard , and when , in the distance , he caught a sight of Marian , he started with a lion-like bound , which soon brought him near to the brave girl , who calmly watched his coming , and , when he was close upon her , said to him : `` Good old Bruno ! 
With a bound , half playful , half ferocious , he sprang upon her , and , catching him around the neck , she passed her hand caressingly over his shaggy mane , saying to him , softly , `` I am Marian , Bruno ! 
At last as she knelt down beside him , and laid her cheek against his neck , he bent his head , and gave forth a deep , prolonged howl , which was answered at a little distance by a cry of horror , and turning quickly Marian saw Frederic hastening toward the spot , his face pale as ashes , and his whole appearance indicative of alarm . 
He had been roused from sleep by the yell which Bruno gave when he first caught sight of Marian , and ere he had time to think what it could be , Alice knocked at his door , exclaiming : `` Oh , Frederic , Miss Grey , I am sure , has gone into the garden , and Bruno is not yet secured . 
He saw Marian 's dress , and through the lattice he caught a sight of Bruno . 
`` Marian ! '' 
`` Marian ! 
`` But I have tamed him , you see , '' she answered , winding her arms still closer around his neck , while he licked again her face and hair . 
Shaking back her sunny curls , and glancing upward into his face Marian answered involuntarily : `` No , not all . 
She spoke impulsively , and as she spoke there arose within her the wish that he , like Bruno , might know her then and there . 
He only remembered what Will Gordon had said of her hopeless attachment and her apparent confession of the same to him , smote heavily upon his heart , though why he , a married man , should care he could not tell . 
He did n't really care , he thought ; he only pitied her , and by way of encouragement he said , `` Even that may yet be won ; '' and while he said it , there came over him a sensation of dreariness , as if the winning of that heart would necessarily take from him something which was becoming more and more essential to his happiness . 
Marian knew him at once , though he had changed from the short , thick lad of twelve to the taller youth of seventeen ; and when , as he saw her position with Bruno , he exclaimed , `` Goo-goo-good Lord ! '' 
she turned her beaming face toward him and answered laughingly , `` I have a secret for charming dogs . '' 
But Bruno would not move , and he clung so obstinately to Marian that she arose , and patting his side , said playfully : `` I shall be obliged to go with him , I guess . 
With eyes protruding like saucers , Josh turned back , followed by Marian and Bruno , the latter of whom offered no resistance when his mistress bade him enter his kennel , though he made woundrous efforts to escape when he saw that she was leaving him . 
Then as Marian came towards the kitchen , she continued , `` ` Pears like I 've seen her somewhar . '' 
`` Ye-ye-yes , '' chimed in Josh , who had walked faster than Marian . 
Marian by this time had reached the door , where she stood smiling pleasantly upon the blacks , but not daring to call them by name until she saw Dinah , who curtesied low , and coming forward asked , `` Is you better this mornin ' ? '' 
said Marian , anxious for an opportunity to talk with her old friends . 
`` This is Hetty , and this is Lyd , and this -- '' She did n't finish the sentence , for Hetty , who had been earnestly scanning Marian 's features , grasped her dress , saying , `` Whar was you born ? '' 
But Hetty had no intentions of casting reflections upon the place of Marian 's birth . 
Like Josh she had detected something familiar in the young girl 's face , and twice she had swept her hand across her eyes to clear away the mist and see if possible what it was which puzzled her so much . 
`` I was born a great many miles from here , '' said Marian , and ere Hetty could reply , Josh , whose gaze had all the time been riveted upon her , stuttered out , `` Sh-sh-she is-s-s-s like M-m-m-Miss Marian . '' 
Yes , this was the likeness they had seen , but Marian would rather the first recognition should come from another source , and she hastened to reply , `` Oh , Mrs. Raymond , you mean . 
And the old negress launched forth into a long eulogy , in the midst of which Frederic appeared in quest of Marian . 
`` I am listening to praises of your wife , '' she said , and there was a mischievous triumph in her eye as she saw how his forehead flushed , for he was beginning to be slightly annoyed when she , as she often did , alluded to his wife . 
Why need she thrust that memory continually upon him ? 
Breakfast being over , Marian and Alice sought the parlor , where , instead of the old fashioned instrument which the former remembered as standing there , she found a new and beautifully carved piano . 
This was sufficient to call out Marian 's wildest strains , and as a matter of course the entire band of servants gathered about the door to listen just as they once had done when the performer was Isabel . 
Meantime , Marian , stealing away from Alice , quietly explored every nook and corner of the house , opening first the little box where she once had kept her mother 's hair . 
It was just as she had left it , and kissing it reverently she placed it by the side of her silken locks , to see how they compared . 
It might be that the tress of the dead had faded somewhat , for there was certainly a richer , darker tinge to her own wavy hair , and bowing her head upon the bureau she dropped tears of thankfulness that her childhood 's prayer had been more than answered . 
The library was visited next , and she seated herself again in the chair where she had sat when penning her last farewell to Frederic . 
She wished that she could see it , though she did not care to read it , and without any expectation of finding it she pressed what she knew was the secret spring to a private drawer . 
It yielded to her touch -- the drawer came open , and there before her lay the letter -- her letter -- she knew it by its superscription , and by its tear-stained , soiled appearance . 
She had wept over it herself , but she knew full well her tears alone had never blurred and blotted it like this . 
Frederic 's had mingled with them , and her heart was trembling with joy when another object caught her eye and quickened her rapid pulsations . 
Her glove ! 
the little black kid glove she had dropped upon the bridge was there , wrapped in a sheet of paper , and with it the handkerchief ! 
`` Frederic has saved them all , '' she whispered , shuddering involuntarily , for it seemed almost like looking into the grave , where he had buried these sad remembrances of her . 
He had preserved them carefully , she thought , and she continued her investigation , coming at last upon a daguerreotype of herself , taken when she was just fifteen . 
she cried , and sinking back in her chair , she laughed until the tears ran at the forlorn little face which looked upon her so demurely from the casing . 
`` Frederic must enjoy looking at you vastly , and thinking you are his wife , '' she said , and she felt a thrill of pride in knowing that Marian Grey bore scarcely the slightest resemblance to that daguerreotype . 
But the likeness extended no further , and she did not wonder that none , save Bruno , had recognized her . 
Returning the picture to its place , she was about to leave the room , when Frederic came in , appearing somewhat surprised to find her there , sitting in his chair as if she had a perfect right so to do . 
At first she was too much confused to apologize , but she managed at last to say : `` This cozy room attracted me , and I took the liberty to enter . 
It was the books , of course , which she came to see , and sitting down opposite to her Frederic talked with her about them until she chanced to spy a portrait , put away behind the ponderous sofa , with its face turned to the wall . 
she asked , directing Frederic 's attention to it . 
Instantly the young man 's face grew dark , and Marian trembled beneath the glance he bent upon her . 
This last was spoken bitterly , and Marian felt the hot blood rising to her cheeks . 
He glanced at the private drawer -- so did Marian ; but she was too intent upon seeing a portrait which could look worse than the daguerreotype to heed aught else , and she said , entreatingly , `` Oh , Mr. Raymond , please let me see it , wo n't you ? 
and she was advancing toward the sofa , when Frederic seized both her hands , and holding them in his , said , half hesitatingly , half mournfully : `` Miss Grey , you must excuse me for refusing your request . 
Poor Marian was far from being handsome , nay , I sometimes thought her positively ugly . 
She is certainly so in the portrait , and a creature as highly gifted with beauty as you , might laugh at her plain features , but if you did -- '' He paused a moment , and Marian 's eyelashes fell beneath his steady gaze -- `` And if you did , '' he continued , `` I never could like you again , for she was my wife , and as such must be respected . '' 
Marian could not tell why it was , but Frederic 's words and manner affected her painfully . 
She half feared she had offended him by her eagerness to see the portrait , while mingled with this was a strange feeling of pity for poor , plain Marian Lindsey , as she probably looked upon the canvas , and a deep respect for Frederic , who would , if possible , protect her from even the semblance of insult . 
Her heart was already full , and , releasing her hands from Frederic 's , she resumed her seat , and leaning her head upon the writing-desk , burst into tears , while Frederic paced the room , wondering what , under the circumstances , he was expected to do . 
I only felt that I could not bear to hear you , of all others , laugh at my poor Marian , and so refused your request . 
He could not send her away , for she seemed a part of himself , and he could not live without her ; but he would stifle his new-born love , he said , and as the best means of doing so , he would talk to her often of his wife as a person who certainly had an existence , and would some day come back to him ; so , when Marian replied : `` I feared you were angry with me , Mr. Raymond ; I would not have asked to see the portrait had I supposed you really cared , '' he drew his chair at a respectful distance and said : `` I can not explain the matter to you , but if you knew the whole sad story of my marriage , and the circumstances which led to it , you would not wonder that I am somewhat sensitive upon the subject . 
I used to think beauty the principal thing I should require in a wife , but poor Marian had none of that , and were you to see the wretched likeness , you would receive altogether too unfavorable an impression of her ; for , notwithstanding her plain face , she was far too good for me . '' 
was Marian 's eager exclamation , while close behind it was the secret struggling hard to escape , but she forced it back , until such time as she should be convinced that Frederic loved her as Marian Grey , and would hail with delight the news that she was indeed his wife . 
He seemed surprised at her question , but he answered , unhesitatingly : `` Yes ; far too good for me . '' 
`` And do you really wish to find her ? '' 
was Marian 's next question , which brought a flush to Frederic 's face , and caused him to hesitate a little ere he replied . 
He would crush every thought or feeling which detracted in the least from his late interest in Marian Lindsey , and with a great effort he said : `` I really wish to find her ; '' adding , as he saw a peculiar expression flit over Marian 's face ; `` Would n't you , too , be better pleased if Redstone Hall had a mistress ? '' 
`` Yes , provided that mistress were your wife , Marian Lindsey , '' was the ready answer ; and , looking into her face , Frederic was conscious of an uneasy sensation , for Miss Grey 's words would indicate that the presence of his wife would give her real pleasure . 
`` I did not see how you could well help it , either , she is so beautiful and good , and every night I pray that if our own Marian is really dead God will let us know . '' 
Hitherto she had pleaded a living Marian -- now she suggested one deceased , but Frederic repelled the thought at once . 
`` Marian was not dead , '' he said , `` and though he admired Miss Grey , he had no right to love her . 
That night he joined the young girls in the parlor and compelled himself to listen while Marian made the old walls echo with her ringing , merry music . 
But he would not look at her , nor watch her snowy fingers sweeping over the keys , lest they should make worse havoc with his heart-strings than they had already done . 
The next day , which was the Sabbath , he determined to see as little of Marian as possible , but when at the breakfast table she asked him in her usual frank , open-hearted way to go with her to church , he could not refuse , and he went , feeling a glow of pride at the sensation he knew she was creating , and wondering why she should be so excited . 
`` I can not keep the secret much longer , '' Marian thought , as she looked upon the familiar faces of her friends , and longed to hear them call her by her real name . 
When church was out , Mrs. Rivers , who still lived at her father 's , pressed forward for an introduction , and after it was over , whispered a few words to Frederic , who replied , `` Not in the least , '' so decidedly that Marian heard him , and wondered what Agnes ' remark could have been . 
She was not long left in doubt , for as they were riding home , Frederic turned to her and said : `` Mrs. Rivers thinks you look like my wife . '' 
Marian 's cheeks were scarlet , as she replied : `` Josh and Hetty thought so , too , and it is possible there may be a resemblance , '' `` Not the slightest , '' returned Frederic , half vexed that any one should presume to liken the beautiful girl at his side to one as plain as he had always considered Marian Lindsey to be . 
Leaning back in the carriage , he relapsed into a thoughtful mood , which was interrupted once by Marian 's asking `` if he believed he should know his wife in case he met her accidentally ? '' 
That night , as Marian sat with Alice in their chamber , she said to the little girl : `` If you could have any wish gratified which you chose to make , what would it be ? '' 
For an instant Alice hesitated -- then her eyes filled with tears , and , and winding her arms around her teacher 's neck , she whispered : `` At first I thought I 'd rather have my sight -- but only for a moment -- and then I wished , if Marian were not dead , she would come back to us , for I 'm afraid Frederic is getting bad again , though he can not help it , I 'm sure . '' 
Marian asked , and Alice replied : `` Do n't you know ? 
Marian made no response , and Alice continued : `` Frederic seems determined to love everybody better than Marian , and though I love you more than I can tell , I want her to come back so much . '' 
`` And if you knew she were coming , when would you rather it should be ? '' 
asked Marian , and Alice replied : `` Now -- to-night ; but as that is impossible , I 'd be satisfied with Christmas . 
Yes , on the whole , I 'd rather it would be then ; I should call her our Christmas Gift , and it would be the dearest , sweetest one that I could have . '' 
`` Darling Alice , '' thought Marian , `` your wish shall be gratified . '' 
And , kissing the blind girl affectionately , she resolved that on the coming Christmas , one at least of the inmates of Redstone Hall should know that Marian Grey was only another name for the runaway Marian Lindsey . 
Noiselessly Marian trod across the floor , holding back her breath and speaking in soft whispers , lest she should disturb the little sufferer whose side she never for a moment left except to take the rest she absolutely needed . 
Frederic , too , often shared her vigils , feeling almost as anxious for one as for the other . 
Both were very dear to him , and Marian , as she witnessed his tender care of Alice , and his anxiety for herself lest her stength should be overtasked , felt more aud more that he was worthy of her love . 
Alice , too , appreciated his goodness , as she had never done before , and once when he sat alone with her , and Marian was asleep , she passed her hand caressingly over his face and said : `` Dear Frederic , you have been so kind to me , that I am sure God has some good in store for you . '' 
Then as she remembered what would probably be the greatest good to him , she continued , `` I know what 's in your heart , and I pity you so much , but there is light ahead ; I 've thought strange things , and dreamed strange dreams since I lay here so sick , and as I once was certain Marian was alive , so now I 'm almost certain that she 's dead . '' 
`` Hush , Alice , hush , '' said Frederic , laying his head upon the pillow beside her , but Alice did not heed him , and she continued -- `` I never saw her in this world , and maybe I sha n't know her right away , though next to mother , I reckon she 'll be the first to welcome me to Heaven , if she 's there , and I know she is , or we should have heard from her . 
You 'll be in the library , maybe , and I reckon ` twill be dark , though if you 'd any rather , I 'll come in the daytime , and when you feel there 's somebody near , somebody you ca n't see , you may know that it is me come to say that you are free to love the other Marian . '' 
But Alice 's faith was stronger , and to Marian Grey she sometimes talked in a similar strain , saying `` she knew she should meet the other one in Heaven , '' and Marian , while listening to her , felt that she must undeceive her . 
`` It may possibly make her better , '' she thought , and when , at last , the Christmas eve had come , and it was her turn to watch that night , she determined to tell her , if she fancied that she had strength to bear it , One by one , the family servants retired , and when at last they were alone , Marian drew her chair close beside the bed , wondering how she should commence , and what effect it would have upon the little girl , who erelong awoke , and said to her : `` I 've been dreaming of Marian , and I thought she looked like you do -- but she do n't of course ; and I wonder how I 'll know her from my mother , for she , too , was young when she died . 
If it were you , Miss Grey , I could tell you so easily , for I should look among the brightest angels there , and the one who sang the sweetest song and had the fairest face , would certainly be Marian Grey : but the other Marian -- how shall I know her -- think ? '' 
Leaning forward so that her hot cheek touched the pale one of the sick girl , Marian said : `` Would n't you know her by her voice ? '' 
`` I 'm afraid not , '' answered Alice ; `` I thought you were she at first when I heard you speak . '' 
Marian asked , in a voice so tremulous that Alice started , and her white face flushed as she replied : `` You are not like her now , except at times , and then -- it 's all so queer . 
Marian asked ; and Alice answered eagerly ; `` Yes -- tell me -- do ? '' 
and sitting down upon the bed , Marian wound her arm around the little girl . 
but Marian did not realize what she was doing , and in as calm a voice as she could command , she began : `` People call me Marian Grey , but that is not my name ! '' 
`` Who are you , then , Marian what ? '' 
Marian did not reply to this question , but said instead : `` I had seen you before that night at Riverside . '' 
and the little fingers trembled with an indefinable dread of the shock which she instinctively felt was waiting for her . 
`` I had seen you many times , '' said Marian , `` and that is why my voice is familiar . 
gasped Alice , and Marian continued : `` I must have changed much , for they who used to know me have never suspected that I am in their midst again -- none but Bruno . 
Marian paused and gazed earnestly at the child , who lay panting in her arms , her face upturned and the blind eyes fixed upon hers with an intensity she had never before seen equalled . 
In the deep stillness of the room she could hear the loud beating of Alice 's heart , and see the bed-clothes rise and fall with every throb . 
`` You are Marian -- my Marian -- Frederic 's Marian -- Dinah 's Marian -- All of us Marian ! '' 
Stretching out her feeble arms she wound them round Marian 's neck , and raising herself upon her elbow , kissed her lips , her cheek , her forehead , her hair , whispering all the time , `` Blessed Marian -- precious Marian -- beautiful Marian -- our Marian -- Frederic 's , and mine , and everybody 's . 
`` Alice , '' said Marian , `` if you love me , you will not tell him now . 
Alice asked , and Marian replied : `` You wo n't die . 
Promise , Alice , promise , '' she continued , as she heard Frederic 's step in the hall without . 
`` Alice is rather excited , that 's all , '' said Marian , `` and you can go back . 
`` Frederic , '' came a faint whisper from the bedside , and knowing that farther remonstrance was useless , Marian stood like a rock , while Frederic advanced toward the child , who lay with her head thrown back , the great tears rolling down her cheeks , and the great joy of what she had heard , shining out all over her little face . 
he asked , but ere he had ceased speaking , Marian was at his side . 
Alice knew that she was there , and she pressed both hands upon her lips to force back the secret she had been forbidden to divulge . 
Frederic asked , and shaking her head , Alice whispered : `` No , no , but happy , so happy . 
Oh , Marian , Marian . '' 
The last word was a whisper , and as it died away , Marian seized Frederic 's arm , and said , beseechingly : `` Please leave the room , Mr. Raymond . 
You see she is excited , and I can quiet her best alone . 
The brown eyes looked reproachfully at her and entreatingly at him , but neither heeded the expression , and with a feeling that he scarcely understood what the whole proceeding meant , and why he had been called in if he must be summarily dismissed , Frederic went out , leaving Marian alone with Alice . 
the latter asked , and Marian replied , `` I shall tell him by and by : but I am not ready yet , and you must not betray me . '' 
But Marian absolutely refused to answer the question until she had become quiet and been refreshed with sleep . 
`` All in good time , dearest , '' she said , `` but you must rest now . 
`` Yes , darling , '' was the ready answer , and winding her arms round Marian 's neck , the blind girl continued : `` Is n't it almost morning ? '' 
`` I know -- I know ; but what I want to say is this : `` I wished my Christmas gift might be Marian , and it is . 
Even after she shut her eyes and tried to sleep her lips continued to move , and Marian could hear the whispered words : `` Our own Marian -- our blessed Marian . '' 
For many days she seemed hovering between life and death , while Marian never for a moment left her , and Alice was more quiet when she was sitting by , holding her feverish hand ; she seemed to have lost all her desire to tell , for she never made any attempt so to do , though she persisted in calling her teacher Marian , and a look of pain always flitted over her face when she heard her addressed as Miss Grey . 
Sometimes she would start up , and winding her arms around her neck would whisper in her ear , `` Are you Marian for sure -- our Marian , I mean ? '' 
At last , just as the New Year 's morning dawned , she woke from a deep , unbroken sleep , and Marian and Frederic , who watched beside her , knew that she was saved . 
But to Alice that sick room was a second paradise and Marian the bright angel whose presence made all the sunlight of her life . 
Gradually as she could bear it , Marian told her everything which had come to her since she left Redstone Hall , and Alice 's eyes grew strangely bright when she heard that the bracelet she had always prized so much was made from Marian 's hair , and that Ben 's visit to Kentucky was all a plan of his to see if Frederic were married . 
-- Greatly was she shocked when she heard of the letter which had almost taken Marian 's life . 
`` Frederic never did that cruel thing , '' she knew . 
`` But 't was in his hand-writing , '' said Marian , `` and until the mystery is cleared away , I can not forgive him . '' 
For a long time Alice sat absorbed in thought , then suddenly starting forward , she cried : `` I know , Marian . 
I 'm sure she did . 
`` Isabel , '' repeated Marian : `` how could she ? 
`` Yes , yes ; I remember , '' said Marian , and Alice continued : `` She said your hand-writing was queer , when she gave me back the note . 
Marian , that herwas you , and that hewas Frederic . 
She copied his writing , and sent the letter back because she wanted Frederic herself . '' 
`` Could she do such a thing , '' said Marian more to herself than to Alice , who replied : `` She can do anything ; for Dinah says she 's one of the -- , I reckon that I 'll skip that word in there , because it 's almost swearing , but it means Satan 's unaccountables , '' and Alice 's voice dropped to a whisper at what she fancied to be profanity . 
Marian could understand why Isabel should do such a wicked thing even better than Alice , and after reflecting upon it for a time , she accepted it as a fact , and even suggested the possibility of Isabel 's having been the author of the letter from Sarah Green . 
I know she wrote it , and managed to get it to New York somehow ; '' and as is often the case poor Isabel was compelled to bear more than her share of the fraud , for Marian , too , believed that she had been in some way implicated with the letter from Sarah Green . 
Marian could not say she did , for she had hoped for more decisive demonstration of affection on Frederic 's part ere she revealed herself to him , but Alice was so anxious , and had waited so patiently , that she at last consented , and when at supper she met Frederic as usual , she was conscious of a different feeling towards him than she had ever experienced before . 
There was evidently something on his mind which he wished to say , but whatever it might have been , seven o'clock found it still unsaid , and as Alice retired at that hour , Marian arose to go . 
he said , rising too , and accompanying her to the door . 
and Marian little guessed the meaning these three words implied . 
She only felt that she was not indifferent to him -- that the story Alice was to tell him on the morrow would be received with a quiet kind of happiness at least -- that he would not bid her go away as she once had done before -- and with the little blind girl , she , too , began to think the morrow would never come . 
Itwas midnight , and from the windows of the library at Redstone Hall there shone a single light , its dim rays falling upon the haggard face of the weary man , who , since parting from Marian in the parlor , had sat there just as he was sitting now , unmindful of the lapse of time -- unmindful of every thing save the fierce battle he was waging with himself . 
Oh , Marian Grey , can it be that you , who might have been the angel of my life , were sent to avenge the wrongs of that other Marian ? '' 
Not both of them could stay there , himself and Marian , for he would not that she should suffer more than need be . 
She had recovered from her first and early love ; she would get over this , and if she were only happy , it did n't matter how desolate her going would leave him , for she must go , he said . 
But it must be -- there was no alternative , he thought , and in the chair where Marian Lindsey once had written her farewell , he wrote to Marian Lindsey 's rival that Redstone Hall could be her home no longer . 
exclaimed Dinah , and when Marian came down to her solitary meal , she repeated the story to her , asking if she could explain it . 
`` Marster 's looked desput down in the mouth a long time back , '' she said . 
Marian could not tell ; neither did she venture a suggestion , so fearful was she that Frederic 's intended departure would interfere with the plan of which Alice had talked incessantly since daylight . 
Marian accordingly tore open the envelope , and with blanched cheek and quivering lip read that she must go again from Redstone Hall , and worse than all , there was no tangible reason assigned for the cruel mandate . 
The check next caught her eye , and with a proud , haughty look upon her face , she tore it in fragments and scattered them upon the floor , for it seemed an idle mockery for him to offer what was already hers . 
`` What is it , Marian ? '' 
asked Alice , and recovering her composure Marian read to her what Frederic said , while Alice 's face grew white as hers had done before . 
She had groped her way to the door and was just opening it when Marian held her back , saying : `` You must not go out undressed and barefooted as you are . 
`` But I want so much to tell him myself , '' said Alice , and Marian replied , `` So you shall , I 'll send Dinah up to dress you and then I will come for you when it 's time . '' 
This pacified Alice , who already began to feel faint with her exertions , and she crept back to bed , while Marian descended the stairs , going first to Dinah as she had promised , and then with a beating heart turning her steps toward the library . 
He felt himself as if his reason were overturned , for the deliberate giving up of Marian Grey , and the feeling that he should probably never look upon her face again , had stirred , as it were , the very depths of his heart 's blood , and in a state of mind bordering upon distraction , he was making the necessary preparations for his hasty journey , when a timid knock was heard outside the door . 
I 'm very busy , '' was his loud , imperious answer , but Marian was not to be thus baffled , and turning the knob , she entered without further ceremony , recoiling back a pace or two when she met the expression of Frederic 's eye . 
With his hands full of papers , which he was thrusting into his pocket , his hair disordered and his face white as ashes , he turned toward her , saying ; `` Why are you here , Miss Grey ? 
`` I have , '' she answered , advancing still further into the room . 
`` I shall not leave your house , nor yet this room until you do , '' was her decided answer , and with the air of one who meant what she said , Marian went so near to the excited man that he could have touched her had he chosen . 
For an instant the two stood gazing at each other , Marian never wavering for an instant , while over Frederic 's face there flitted alternately a look of wonder , admiration , and perplexity . 
`` I can not help it , '' he murmured at last , and tottering to the door , he turned the key ; then returning to Marian , he compelled her to sit down beside him upon the sofa , and passing his arm around her , so that she could not escape , he began : `` You say you will not leave the room until you know why I should send you from me . 
It surely can not be wrong for me to tell when you thus tempt me to the act ; so , for one brief half-hour , you are mine -- mine , Marian , and no power can save you now from hearing what I have to say . '' 
His looks , even more than his manner , frightened her , and she said imploringly , `` Give me the key , Mr. Raymond . 
`` I frighten you , then , '' he answered , in a gentler tone , drawing her nearer to him , `` and yet , Marian Grey , I would sell my life inch by inch rather than harm a hair of your dear head . 
Oh , Marian , Marian , I would to Heaven you had never crossed my path , for then I should not have known what it is to love as madly , as hopelessly , as wickedly as I now love you . 
He wound his arms close around her , and she could feel his feverish breath as his lips almost touched her burning cheek . 
In the words `` Marian Grey , Marian Grey , '' there was a deep pathos , as if all the loving tenderness of his nature were centered upon that name , and it brought the tears in torrents from her eyes . 
Involuntarily she laid her head upon his bosom , sobbing : `` I have loved you so long -- so long . '' 
But for her promise to Alice she would then have told him all , but she must keep her word , and when he rejoined , `` It does , indeed seem long since that night you came to Riverside , '' she did not undeceive him , but listened while he continued , `` Bless you for telling me of your love . 
And again the hot tears trembled through the hands which Marian clasped before her eyes . 
`` Do n't call me thus , '' said Frederic , entreatingly , as he removed her hands , and held them both in his . 
Listen , Marian , while I tell you why I married her who bears your name , and then I 'm sure you 'll hate me -- nor call me Frederic again . 
But she did n't know it , for '' -- and Frederic 's voice was very low and plaintive now as he told to Marian Grey how Marian Lindsey was an heiress -- told her of his dead parent 's fraud -- of his desire to save that parent 's name from disgrace , and his stronger desire to save him from poverty . 
`` So I made her my wife , '' he said . 
`` I promised to love and cherish her all the time my heart was longing for another . '' 
Marian trembled now , as she lay helpless in his arms , and , observing it , he continued : `` I must confess the whole , and tell you that I loved , or thought I loved , Isabel Huntington , though how I could have fancied her is a mystery to me now . 
My poor Marian was plain , while Isabel was beautiful , and naught but Alice kept me from telling her my love . 
Alice stayed the act -- Alice sent me to New York to look for Marian -- '' `` And did you never hear from her ? 
Did she never send you a letter ? '' 
Marian asked , and he replied : `` Never ! 
If she had I should have known where to find her . '' 
And yet , could I keep you with me , Marian ? 
-- a right to call you mine -- my Marian -- my wife ? 
`` Let me go for Alice , '' said Marian , struggling to release herself . 
said Marian , standing up before him , and holding one of his hands in hers . 
There were tears in Frederic 's eyes , and his whole frame quivered with emotion , as , catching at her dress , for she was moving toward the door , he added : `` And you will wait for me , darling -- wait for me twentyyears , if it needs must be ? 
I shall love you just the same when these sunny locks are grey , '' and he passed his hands caressingly over her bright hair . 
There was a world of love and tenderness in the answering look which Marian gave to him as he opened the door for her to pass out , and wringing his hands in anguish , he cried to himself , `` Oh , how can I give her up -- beautiful , beautiful Marian Grey ! '' 
Swift as a bird Marian flew up the stairs in quest of Alice , who was to tell the wretched man that it was not a sin for him to love the beautiful Marian Grey . 
she exclaimed , bursting into the room . 
Oh , Marian , help ! '' 
Marian was terribly excited , and in her attempts to assist , she only made matters worse by buttoning the wrong button , putting both stockings on the same foot , pulling the shoe-lacing into a hard knot , which baffled all her nervous efforts , while Dinah worked on leisurely , insisting that Alice `` was n't gwine down , and if there was anythin ' killin ' which marster ` or ` to know , Miss Grey could tell him herself . '' 
`` Yes , Marian , go , '' said Alice , in despair , as she heard Dud bid Frederic good-by , and , scarcely conscious of what she was about , Marian ran down the stairs , just as Phil cracked his whip , and the spirited greys bounded off with a rapidity which left her faint call of `` Stop , Frederic , stop ! '' 
`` I can write to him , '' she thought , as she slowly retraced her steps back to Alice , who was bitterly disappointed , and who , after Dinah was gone , threw herself upon the bed , refusing to be comforted . 
`` No , no , '' said Marian , `` I will write immediately , so he can get the letter as soon almost as he reaches New Orleans . 
It wo n't be three weeks before he returns , '' and she strove to divert the child 's mind by repeating to her as much as she thought proper of her exciting interview with Frederic . 
and in her weakness and excitement the little girl sunk exhausted at Marian 's feet . 
Raising her up , Marian listened breathlessly , but heard nothing save Phil , talking to his horses as he drove them to the stable . 
`` He has not come , '' she said , and Alice replied , `` I tell you he has . 
and Marian 's heart gave one great bound as she , too , heard the well-known footstep upon the threshold and Frederick speaking to his favorite Dud , who had run to meet `` his mars , '' asking for sugar-plums from New Orleans . 
And thus it was that he returned again to Redstone Hall , where his coming was hailed with eager joy by Marian and Alice , and created much surprise among the servants . 
She would not be kept back another moment , lest he should go off again , so Marian had wrapped her up and sent her on her mission . 
Frederic sat with his face turned toward the fire , and though by the step he knew who it was that entered the door , he did not turn his head or evince the least knowledge of her presence until she stood before him , and said , inquiringly : `` Frederic , are you here ? '' 
`` I have come to tell you something about Marian . '' 
Her name is n't Miss Grey . 
She is a married woman , and has a living husband ; and you -- '' She did not finish the sentence , for like a tiger Frederic started up , and seizing her by the shoulder , exclaimed : `` You dare not tell me that again . 
She never had a husband , '' and as the maddening thought swept over him , that possibly the blind girl told him truly , he staggered against the mantel , where he stood panting for breath , and enduring , as it were , all the agonies of a lingering , painful death . 
Do n't you mind how I told you once maybe the Marian who went away would come back to us some day so beautiful we should not know her ? 
She 's the other one -- she 's MY Marian , Frederic , AND YOUR WIFE -- '' As Alice was speaking Frederic had risen to his feet . 
Marian had stood without the door , listening to that dialogue , and when by the fall she knew that it was ended , she came at once and knelt by the fainting man , who ere long began to show signs of consciousness . 
She might have tarried yet a little longer , for the shock to Frederic had been so sudden and so great , that though his lips moved and his fingers clutched eagerly at the soft hand feeling for his pulse , he did not seem to heed aught else , until Marian whispered in his ear : `` My husband -- may I call you so ? '' 
Then , indeed , he started from his lethargy , and , struggling to his feet , clasped her in his arms , weeping over her passionately , and murmuring as he did so : `` My wife -- my darling -- my wife ! 
Are you my Marian ? '' 
Daylight was fading from the room , for the Winter sun had set behind the western hills , and leading her to the window , he turned her face to the light , gazing rapturously upon it , and saying to her : `` You are mine -- all mine ! 
God bless you , Marian ! '' 
He kissed her hands , her neck , her lips , her forehead , her hair , and she could feel his hot tears falling amid the shining curls he parted so lovingly from her brow . 
They were not hateful to him now -- and he passed his hand caressingly over them , whispering all the while : `` My own beautiful Marian -- my bride -- my wife ! '' 
Surely , in this moment of bliss , Marian felt repaid for all that she had suffered , when at last as thoughts of the dreadful past came over Frederic , he led her to the sofa , and said , `` Can you forgive me , darling ? '' 
she turned her bright eyes up to his , and by the expression of perfect happiness resting there , he knew she had forgotten the cold , heartless words he spoke to her , when once , at that very hour , and in that very place , he asked her to be his . 
All was sunshine and gladness , and with her fair head resting on his bosom -- not timidly , as it had lain there in the morning , but trustingly , confidingly , as if that were its rightful resting-place -- they sat together until the rose-red tinge faded from the western sky , and the night shadows had crept into the room . 
At last as she came once she stumbled accidentally , and this woke Marian from the sweetest dream which ever had come to her . 
`` 'T is Alice , '' she said ; and she called to the little girl who came gladly , and climbing into Frederic 's lap , twined her arms around his neck and laid a cheek against his own , without word of comment . 
`` Blessed Alice , I owe you more than I can repay , '' he said , and Marian , far better than the child , appreciated the full meaning these words conveyed . 
But for the helpless blind girl this hour might never have come to them , and the strong man felt it so , as he hugged the little creature closer to him , blessing her as his own and Marian 's good angel . 
Observing that she shivered as if with the cold , he arose , and drawing the sofa directly before the fire , resumed his seat again , with Marian between himself and Alice , his arm around her neck and his lips almost constantly meeting hers . 
He could not remove his eyes from her , she seemed to him so beautiful , with the firelight falling on her sparkling face and shining on her hair . 
Then the blue eyes flashed up into his , and Marian replied by telling whence came the change , and reminding him that she was the same young girl of whom the Yankee Ben had spoken when he visited Kentucky . 
Since Marian had revealed herself to Alice , the little girl had said to Dinah , by way of preparing her for the surprise when it should come , that `` there was some doubt concerning the death of Marian -- that Frederic believed she had been with him in New York , and had taken means to find her . '' 
She would n't believe `` she had done all her mournin ' for nothin ' , '' and in opposition to Hetty , she persisted in saying Marian was dead . 
When , however , she saw her master 's familiarity with Miss Grey , she accepted of her young mistress 's existence as a reality , and was terribly incensed against the offending Marian Grey . 
`` But I 'll bring proof agin her , '' and hurrying back to the kitchen , she told to the astonished blacks , `` how ' t marster done kissed Miss Grey spang on her har , and on her month , and hugged her into the bargain , when he did n't know for certain that t ` other one was dead ; and if they did n't b ` lieve it , they could go and see for themselves , provided they went mighty still . '' 
`` Tole you he was crazy , '' said Uncle Phil , starting to see the wonderful sight , and followed by a troop of negroes , all of whom trod on tiptoe , a precaution wholly unnecessary , for Frederic and Marian were too much absorbed in each other to heed the dusky group assembled round the door , their white eyes growing larger as they all saw distinctly the arm thrown across Marian 's neck . 
whispered Hetty , as Frederic said , `` Dear Marian , '' while old Dinah chimed in , `` ` Clar for ` t , it makes my blood bile , and he not a widower nuther ! '' 
Then , as he began to comprehend its meaning , the frown gave place to a good-humored laugh , and taking Marian 's hand , he led her toward the assembled blacks , saying to them : `` Rejoice with me that the lost one has returned to us again , for this is Marian Lindsey -- my wife and your mistress -- changed , it is true , but the same Marian who went from us more than six years ago . '' 
Dinah , on the contrary , had not the shadow of a doubt , and she dropped on her knees at once , kissing the very hem of Marian 's dress , and exclaiming through her tears : `` Lord bress you , Miss Marian . 
When the commotion had in a measure subsided , and Hetty had gone over to the popular side , saying , `` she knew from the first Marian was somebody , '' Frederic made a few brief explanations as to where their mistress had been , and then dismissed them to their several duties , for he preferred being alone again with his wife and Alice . 
They were too much excited for that , and as soon as the meal was over , they returned to Frederic 's room , where , sitting again between her husband and Alice , Marian told them , as far as possible , everything which had come to her since leaving Redstone Hall . 
`` Marian an heiress , too ! '' 
and she laid her head which was beginning to grow weary , upon Marian 's lap , saying , `` I never knew till now one half how good you are . 
It was wicked in him , very , '' and the brown eyes looked sleepily into the fire , while Marian replied : `` But is all forgotten now . '' 
Great were the preparations for that party , to which all their friends were to be bidden , and as they were one evening making out the list , Marian suggested Isabel , more for the sake of seeing what Frederic would say , than from any desire to have her present . 
I can not so soon forget her treachery , '' and a frown darkened his handsome face , but Marian kissed it away as she said : `` You surely will not object to Ben , the best and truest friend I ever had . '' 
He is just the man I want upon my farm -- yourfarm , I mean , '' he added , smiling knowingly upon her , and catching in his the little hand raised to shut his mouth . 
But Marian had her revenge by refusing to let him kiss her until he had promised never to allude to that again . 
`` I gave you Redstone Hall , '' she said , `` that night I ran away , and I have never taken it back , but have brought you in instead an incumbrance which may prove a most expensive one . '' 
And amid such pleasantries as these Marian wrote the note to Ben , and then went back to her preparations for the party , which , together with the strange discovery , was the theme of the whole country . 
`` I shall go to this party , '' he continued , as his mind reverted again to the letter , `` though I 'll be as much out of place as a toad in a sugar bowl ; but I can see Marian , and that little blind girl , and Josh . 
Some weeks before , and ere Marian 's identity with Frederic 's wife had heen made known , Mrs. Rivers had invited her to visit Kentucky , and as there was now nothing in Yonkers to interest her she had accepted , with the forlorn hope that spite of Frederic 's improbable story about a living wife , he might eventually be won back to his old allegiance . 
Poor Isabel , she was in a measure suffering for her sins , and she continued to weep while Ben tried in vain to sooth her , talking to her upon the subject uppermost in his mind , namely , Marian 's happiness and his own joy that it had all come right at lasi . 
Isabel would rather have heard of anything else , but when she saw how kind Ben was , she compelled herself to listen , even though every word he said of Marian and Frederic pierced her with a keener pain than even her bruises produced . 
`` I sha n't be in time for the doin 's any way , '' thought Ben , when Mrs. Huntington did not come at the expected time , and as he fancied it his duty to let Marian know why he was not there , he telegraphed to her , `` We 've had a break down , and Isabel is knocked into a cocked hat . '' 
This telegram , which created no little sensation at the office , was copied verbatim and sent to Frederic , who read it , while Marian , in her chamber , was dressing for the party . 
He accordingly thrust it in his pocket , and then , when it was time , went up for Marian , who , in her bridal dress of satin and lace , with pearls and diamonds woven among her shining hair , and flashing from her neck and arms , looked wondrously beautiful to him , and received many words of commendation from the guests , who soon began to appear , and who felt that the bride of Redstone Hall well became her high position . 
But Frederic shook his head , saying , he was satisfied if Marian was , while the look the beautiful , blushing bride gave to him , was quite as expressive of her answer as words would have been . 
And so , amid smiles and congratulations , the song and the dance moved on , and all went merry as a marriage bell , until at last , as the clock told the hour of midnight , the last guest had departed , and Frederic , with his arm round Marian , was calling her Mrs. Raymond , on purpose to see her blush , when there came up the avenue the sound of rapid wheels , followed by a bound on the piazza , and the next moment Ben burst into the room , holding up both hands , as he caught sight of Marian in her bridal robes . 
It 's curis how clothes will fix up a woman , '' and the tears came to Ben 's eyes in his delight at seeing Marian so resplendent in jewels and costly lace . 
Alice , too , did her part well , and , pressing Ben 's hand to her lips , she said : `` I love you , Ben Burt ; love you a heap , for being so good to Marian . '' 
asked Marian . 
and as Frederic then passed her the telegram , she continued to ask questions , until she had learned the whole . 
she sighed ; `` I pity her , and if she were here , I would so gladly take care of her . '' 
Instantly there flashed upon Alice 's mind an idea every way worthy of her , but she would not suggest it then , as it was growing late , and when she heard ere long a loud yawn from Ben , she thoughtfully rang the bell , bidding the servant who came `` show Mr. Burt to his room ; '' then , kissing Frederic and Marian good-night , she , too , departed , leaving them alone . 
This suggestion was warmly seconded by Marian , and after a little further consultation , it was decided that they should start the next day for the place where Isabel lay sick . 
`` She may confess about the letters , '' said Marian , `` and that will make me like her so much better . '' 
This being settled , Alice 's next inquiry was for her cat , and her brown eyes opened wide with wonder when told of the six young kittens which had a home in Ben Burt 's grocery , and one of which was called for her . 
The next morning , Frederic , Marian and Alice started for Ohio , leaving Ben in charge at Redstone Hall . 
`` Catch him tellin ' me Marian ai n't a lawful wife , '' said Ben , starting from the stool and hurrying to the dining-room , where very much intoxicated , Rudolph McVicar was sitting . 
said Ben , bristling up in Marian 's defense . 
`` You say that Marian ai n't Frederic 's lawful wife , and I 'll show you the door , plaguy quick . 
`` Marian ! '' 
Then , indeed , the haughty girl wept aloud , for she knew she did not deserve this kindness either from Alice or Marian , the latter of whom soon came in , greeting her as pleasantly as if she had never received an injury from her hands . 
Frederic , too , was perfectly self-possessed , expressing his sympathy for her misfortune , and with these kind friends to cheer her sick room , Isabel recovered in a measure her former cheerfulness . 
But there was evidently something resting heavily upon her mind , and that night , when alone with Frederic and Marian , she confessed to them her wickedness in opening the letter , and sending it back with so cruel a message . 
`` We knew you must have done it , '' said Frederic , at the same time assuring her of his own and Marian 's forgiveness . 
And Isabel , when she saw the look of deep affection he gave to his young wife , covered her face with her hands , and wept silently , until Marian asked `` if she knew aught of the letter from Sarah Green ? '' 
`` No , no , '' she answered ; `` I am surely innocent of that , '' and they believed her , wondering all the more whence it could have come or why it had been sent . 
Isabel did not answer , but she pressed his hand , and returned warmly the kiss which both Marian and Alice gave to her . 
As the latter was turning away she detained her a moment while she whispered in her ear , `` Will you forgive me for that blow I gave you when I thought I was about to be exposed ? '' 
Frederic and Marian are perfectly happy , for the dark night which enshrouded them so long has passed away , and the day they fancy will never end has dawned upon them at last . 
There is no spot in the world where Ben could be so supremely happy as he is at Redstone Hall , with Marian and Alice ; and when Frederic , on his return from Ohio , suggested his remaining there , he evidence his delight in his usual way , lamenting the while that his extremely tender heart would always make him cry just when he did not wish to . 
Marian and Alice were destined for Kentucky , where they were welcomed joyfully by those whose names they bore . 
Particularly was the white one , with its bright , sightless eyes , the pet of the entire household , negroes and all ; while even Bruno , who , on account of his recognition of Marian , was now allowed more liberty than before , and was consequently far less savage , took kindly to the little creature , tossing it up in his huge paws , licking its snowy face , and sometimes coaxing it into his kennel , where it was more than once found by the delighted Alice , sleeping half hidden under the mastiff 's shaggy mane . 
Still she is very happy in Frederic 's and Marian 's love , and happy , too , with her faithful friend , around whose neck she often twines her arms , blessing him for all he was to Marian and all he is to her . 
Once she hoped to improve his peculiar dialect somewhat by imparting to him a greater knowledge of books than he already possessed , and Ben , willing to gratify her , waded industriously through the many volumes she recommended him to read , among which was `` Watts on the Mind . '' 
`` ` Taint much use tryin ' to make a scholar of me , '' said he , winking slyly at Marian , who was present . 
Marian thought so , too , and she dropped a few welltimed hints to Alice , who gradually relaxed her efforts to teach one who , had he been educated , would certainly not have been the simple-hearted , unselfish man we now know as Ben Burt . 
An humbled , and it is to be hoped , a better woman , she derives her greatest comfort from the letters which sometimes come to her from Marian , and which usually contain a more substantial token of regard than mere words convey . 
Ben had claimed the privilege of writing the news to him , and he did it in his charactistic way , first touching upon the note which , he said , was safe in his wallet and sure of being paid , then launching out into glowing descriptions of Marian 's happines with Frederic . 
