Such an occasion had arrived ; for George Burnet had just come home after finishing what he called his `` law studies ; '' studies which we rather think were comprised in six months ' `` sharp practice , '' as clerk to a gentleman who had quitted the shoemaker 's bench for the law , on the supposition that the art of pettifogging would prove a stepping-stone to a bench of more dignity . 
This gentleman 's neophyte , Mr. George Burnet , was such a youth as the only son of a doting mother is apt to be -- wilful , conceited and very hard to please ; in short , not voted particularly agreeable for any qualities of his own , but much reverenced as the heir-presumptive of the white and green house , and also on account of his aristocratic pretensions -- his father having once been elected to the legislature . 
He was fully sensible of his advantages , and not a little apt to boast of his expectations ; was good-natured when he was pleased , and very kind where he took a fancy -- in short , one of those people who intend well , or at least intend no ill , but are never to be depended on for a day . 
Mr. George Burnet came home in high spirits , determined to enjoy to the uttermost the interval between the finish of his preparation and the opening of sharp practice on his own account . 
He was extravagantly fond of dancing , and his mother had always promised him a grand party when he should have got through his studies , on the express condition , however , that he was to return immediately to business , and not stay to hunt and fish and serenade about the neighbourhood . 
George found it easy to promise , and the party was now to come off . 
The preparations for this great event had for some time been foreshadowed in the active brain of Mrs. Burnet ; and George 's `` freedom suit '' was duly bespoken , and two violins secured , long before the arrival of the graduate . 
Whose enmity will be least formidable among those who ought to be excluded on account of want of caste , or want of savoir faire?George Burnet and his lady mother found it hard to agree in their estimate of the guests ; George insisting upon all the pretty girls , and these , for the most part , portionless belles , being the last to be selected by Mrs. Burnet . 
`` Mary Stevens , '' said George . 
said George . 
`` Mother , '' said George Burnet , `` I would n't marry Polly Drinkwater if there was n't another girl in the world ! '' 
`` But , George , it is high time for you to have done with nonsense , and behave like a man . 
mother , '' said George , politely laying his hand on his mamma 's mouth ; `` no use talking -- let 's go on with the party . 
`` Leave her out , then , '' said George . 
`` Lump 'em , then , '' said George ; `` and who has Phebe Penniman got tacked to her ? '' 
said his mother ; `` her old lame grandmother ca n't go out ; but Phebe 'll come in a shilling calico . '' 
By George ! 
`` But you wo n't have her , though , '' said Mrs. Burnet ; and George , seeing her so determined , let the matter drop , a sure sign that he was determined , too . 
But all his strategy was vain . 
But , on the eve of the great day , when the preparations were in great forwardness , those dazzling lilies were again mentioned ; and George , who was never much hampered by the restraints of good breeding , declared he would get the lilies without inviting the damsel , and , on this glorious thought intent , he climbed the intervening fence , by moonlight , and made directly for the spot rendered lovely by the choicest flowers of our poor Persis . 
George 's conscience whispered that it was a `` sperrit ; '' but , after the first moment 's start , he could not resist venturing a little nearer ; and there was Persis Allen , fast asleep on her mossy couch , her fair forehead upward toward the sky , a book still open on her lap , and a lily fallen at her feet , fit emblem of her own purity and beauty . 
Mr. George Burnet stood entranced . 
He had seen no such personification of beauty and romance in the whole course of his law-studies . 
He ventured nearer , -- nearer still -- until he could distinguish the lightest curl waved by the evening breeze , and even the satin smoothness of the skin beneath . 
But while he still gazed , the sleeping beauty stirred -- opened her eyes -- uttered a slight exclamation , as if not quite sure that what she saw was real -- and our gallant youth darted off , as much frightened as if the opening of those eyes had threatened literal instead of only figurative death . 
But , by George ! 
`` How can you be so vulgar , George ? '' 
`` George , '' said Mrs. Burnet , `` you always were an obstinate boy , but I was in hopes you had more sense now . '' 
And George at length carried his point , and dragged his mother over to William Allen 's . 
We shall have a number of young people -- '' `` And fiddles , '' interposed George , in way of parenthesis . 
`` But you 'll come , '' said George , whose eyes had devoured the beautiful face with no measured stare all this time ; `` you 'll come , wo n't you ? '' 
George was very reluctant to be dragged off without a promise from Persis , but he was obliged to be content with the advantage he had gained . 
He felt that the tone of his mother 's invitation had not been what it should be , but he hoped his own urgency had supplied all deficiencies . 
George is always crazy after some pretty face or another , and it 's no credit to a young girl like you to have his acquaintance . 
If he or his mother should meet you in the street , at B -- , they would n't know you at all . 
George , arrayed in the `` freedom suit '' -- solemn black , of course , as became his profession -- made the agreeable to his male guests after the most approved style -- shaking hands heartily , and asking them to `` take something to drink . '' 
exclaimed Mr. George , in considerable vexation . 
`` I do n't believe that , '' muttered George , and , going out of the door , he looked up at the only upper window . 
Dead silence ; and poor George , casting a wrathful look at the papa quietly smoking his pipe in the kitchen , went his way back to the party , resolving to pay the most provoking attention to Miss Drinkwater , by way of revenging himself on Fate and Persis Allen . 
Mr. George , early excited by drinking with his `` dear five hundred friends , '' more or less , became quite stupid before the company departed ; and , when the last shawl had left the entry-table , and the second supply of tallow candles began to burn low in the sockets , Mrs. Burnet was obliged to call in the strong arm of Huldy from the kitchen to get Mr. George up to bed . 
The next day , it became too evident that the freedom-party had cost Mr. George Burnet a violent fever . 
He awoke out of a long sleep with an agonizing pain in his head , and a pulse going at railroad speed . 
Before evening medical aid had been summoned , heads and vials shaken , and a cot put into George 's room for Mrs. Burnet , and a smoked ham put into the pot for the `` watchers . '' 
All night long did the heart-rending tones of the sufferer keep her awake , and it was scarcely daylight when a messenger from Mrs. Burnet knocked loudly at her father 's door , to entreat Persis to come but for a moment to George 's bedside , hoping that the sight of her might have some effect in soothing his irritation . 
The moment George 's delirious brain became aware of the presence of the pale beauty , he would have sprung from his bed but for strong arms that held him down . 
It was indeed surprising that her image should have taken so firm a hold on his memory and imagination ; but it soon became evident that nothing but her presence would soothe his more than `` midsummer madness . '' 
So there the poor girl was obliged to sit , her cold hand clasped between his burning palms , and his wild eyes fixed upon her face , hour after hour , listening to his raving vows that she and she only should be his wife , spite of his mother and -- a less smooth-looking personage . 
Words have a power of their own , as we have all doubtless experienced , and besides , George Burnet was rather a handsome young man , and the certain heir of a still handsomer property . 
So that we shall not pretend that his protestations , though made in all the wildness of delirium , fell upon deaf ears or a stony heart . 
On the other side of the bed stood Cyprian Amory , unwearied in his attention to the sick man , but watching with a painful anxiety the changes in the pale face of Persis , and frequently suggesting something which might tend to quiet George and relieve her unpleasant situation . 
At length George 's ravings grew fainter , his grasp gradually slackened , his eyes closed , and he fell asleep , murmuring blessings on the fair being who had so kindly soothed his wretchedness . 
Persis was removed , half fainting , and it was not until some hours ' rest that she was able to return home , so completely had her nerves been overwrought by this distressing scene . 
George 's delirium subsided , it is true , but his memory proved wonderfully tenacious of the subject of his ravings . 
As he gained strength his natural willfulness showed itself , and a determination to make good all he had said to Persis was but too apparent . 
His mother would not stay in the room to listen to what so deeply offended her ; but Cyprian was always there , and into his unwilling ear did George pour all his plans for the future . 
`` We sha n't live here , Cyp , '' he would say ; `` she 's too splendid a creature for the woods , and beside , mother would worry her life out . 
and he would run on by the hour after this fashion , holding Cyprian fast till his new found strength would be entirely exhausted , and he would fall asleep only to wake and renew the strain . 
George cried and swore alternately , while his mother , calm as usual , with her lips compressed to a thready thinness , and that unearthly light in her eye which malicious eyes willperversely emit when their owner most desires to seem angelically virtuous , she expressed her unalterable determination to disinherit him if he persisted in marrying a girl who earned her living by spinning . 
This was a tremendous engine , and wielded with the coolness so peculiar to Mrs. Burnet , it bore with terrible force upon poor George , who had been brought up to expect a fortune which was entirely in his mother 's power . 
But opposition only contributed to keep alive a determination which would otherwise most probably have shared the fate of many others which George had made and broken . 
He did not venture to defy his mother openly , for , in his eyes as well as hers , the possession of property was all that made any essential difference between one man and another . 
George had now entirely recovered , and his mother insisted on his returning to his business according to promise . 
Cyprian Amory , it is true , though he belonged to the great house , was troubled with no such shortness of memory -- indeed , it would have been fortunate for him if he had , poor fellow ! 
for why should he remember Persis ? 
It was thus that the fair spinning-girl learned that the only chance to which Cyprian looked for an escape from the horrors of a district-school , was George 's consenting to receive him as a clerk , a destiny not in itself to be coveted , yet far preferable to its alternative . 
Such was the pity and sympathy excited in the gentle breast of Persis , that she almost wished sometimes that she had accepted George , since she might then have been of so much service to poor Cyprian ! 
George Burnet , a young `` lawyer , '' the beau of the country , and heir of the splendid white and green house and the fine farm appended to it , would have been irresistible , perhaps , but for a something -- an unexplained , troublesome something , which presented itself before Persis ' mental vision whenever she had time to think of the matter . 
This pretty picture had often presented itself to Persis , while she was still a simple spinning-girl , and it stood very much in the way of George Burnet 's interest . 
And yet , if Persis could only marry George , how much might she brighten the lot of her friend , Cyprian . 
George would take Cyprian into his office , and , once on the way , Cyprian might , nay , must , rise to a condition in life so much better suited to a mind like his . 
It was such considerations as these that had caused Persis sometimes to listen to George Burnet , and try to make up her mind to like him , though she had told him no a thousand times . 
This visit was followed at no great distance by another , with the avowed object of pleading George 's cause , the match being now warmly desired by the devoted mother . 
Nowthere could be no possible objection ; and she hoped her dear Persis would not object to an early day , since poor George would find it impossible to engage in business until his mind was at rest . 
And what did poor George Burnet do ? 
He talked undutifully to his amiable mamma , and swore he would go and be a Patriot . 
Mrs. Burnet took both these things quietly , and George , after all , had to marry Polly Drinkwater . 
`` What does ` holiday ' mean , George ? '' 
We predicted on the spot that George would write a dictionary if he lived long enough . 
A decidedly etymological genius , and quite original ; for he owed but little to books , to our certain knowledge . 
They did not always please to prefer what was wisest ; and then they were sure of a lecture , to which George 's prudence and self-government afforded the text . 
George must have been really a good fellow , for his brothers loved him in spite of his position ; and as for his sisters , they thought no mortal man , and hardly even Thaddeus of Warsaw , approached him in excellence . 
But here , again , George experienced the disadvantage of being too well liked . 
The invariable welcome which awaited him , the capital footing on which he stood with the mammas and papas , and the fear that whenever he should select a special partner , it would be at the expense of a large amount of friendship and attention , had kept him undecided until five-and-twenty ; and , we fear , a little too well satisfied with himself to promise uncommonly well as a husband . 
Was a hard thing to be said , George must say it -- because George could say it without hurting any body 's feelings . 
Was a slippery debtor to be approached , George was the messenger ; and if it proved necessary to follow the `` defaulter '' to Texas , he never flinched , and generally returned with man or money . 
Once upon a time , when affairs called George from home , he was about to pass the night in a village , about sixty-five miles from his father 's residence . 
There was no one to visit , for he knew none but the gentleman with whom his business lay ; and he strolled out after tea , as men will when they have nothing else to do , not exactly seeking adventure , but in a mood of mind to be well pleased with any thing that should occur , to help off the evening . 
He paced the bank of the noisy little `` privilege '' that turned the grist-mill , the carding machine and the trip hammer , which formed the wealth of the village , until the light had faded to that pleasant gray which we poetically call dusk ; and he was about returning to the inn to read the newspaper over again , when a wild-looking girl , with a shawl over her head , accosted him . 
`` They want you , up yander , '' she said , in a mumbling and embarrassed tone . 
George 's eyes followed the direction of the thick red finger , and rested upon a pretty cottage on the side of a hill , at no great distance . 
repeated George . 
asked George . 
Musingly did George follow the girl up the hillside , perfectly convinced of the impracticability of getting any thing more out of her , and tolerably certain that he could not be the person in requisition . 
Why did he go then ? 
We have already said that he was born to oblige , and also that he found the Templeville hotel somewhat dull . 
Then turning to the stupid maid , she proceeded to scold her in an under tone , but with inconceivable rapidity and sharpness , while George stood most uneasily waiting the result . 
He felt inclined to disappear at once , but that course seemed liable to further misconstruction ; and he was , moreover , rather attracted by the invalid , who , though embarrassed , lost not her ladylike self-possession . 
`` She was sent for our physician , and must have mistaken you -- '' `` Oh , very likely , '' interrupted the elder lady , who forgot to scold the maid as soon as the young lady ventured to speak to George . 
The air of incredulity with which this was said could not be mistaken ; but the implication was one which it was impossible to notice under the circumstances ; and George concluded that the only course left for him was to make his bow and leave his character behind him . 
As he turned , with his hat in his hand , a letter fell from it to the floor , unobserved by him in his embarrassment . 
He had not cleared the porch , when the maid ran after him with it . 
George looked in his hat , found he must have dropt a letter , and took it , though it was now too dark to examine it . 
Is it singular that a conviction began to dawn upon his mind that the said charge must possess considerable attractions ? 
`` No , grandma , '' says the youth , and immediately leaves his play to get up and walk round and round the table , trying to reach the prohibited article . 
George the prudent slept little that night . 
The young lady 's eyes and voice , the delicate and languid grace of her figure , as she lay extended in evident feebleness on the sofa , rather unhinged his philosophy ; and he was , besides , not a little troubled by the recollection of the spiteful air of the duenna , and the probability that the error had cost the fair invalid some discomfort . 
Altogether , there was food for reverie ; and a hasty , unrefreshing morning slumber had not made amends for a wakeful night , when he was aroused by the breakfast bell . 
Inquiries respecting the people of the cottage elicited only the interesting information , that there was `` an oldish woman , and a young gal , '' which added little to George 's knowledge . 
George went home , but said nothing of his adventure . 
He said he did not think it worth while . 
But he thought it worth while , two weeks afterwards , to travel the sixty-five miles which lay between his home and Templeville , just to try whether the landlord might not have discovered something beyond the interesting facts before ascertained as to the `` young gal '' and her duenna . 
said George . 
Not much enlightened , even yet , George adopted the desperate resolution of trying boldly for an acquaintance . 
He judged it absolutely necessary to inquire after the health of the invalid . 
So , writing a civil card of inquiry , he walked up to the pretty cottage , and , after reconnoitering a little , rapped at the door , and awaited the coming of the stupid maid , with a trepidation quite new to his quiet and well-assured frame of mind . 
What was his dismay when the aunt herself , with a face of iron , opened the door . 
George was completely at a loss for the moment . 
The card was in his hand , but he could not offer it to the lady , so he stammered out something of his wish to inquire after the health of the family , and to express his regret for the misunderstanding on the former occasion . 
George stood still , and the lady stood as still as he . 
She looked at the distant hills , and he at the door which had once disclosed to him the reclining figure in white . 
At length , finding it in vain to attempt wearying the grim portress into an invitation to enter this enchanted castle , he turned off in despair , when the young lady came through the gate , as if just returning from a walk . 
George darted towards her , but the elder lady scarce allowed time for a word . 
The young lady looked at George with a scarce perceptible smile , and such a comical expression , that their acquaintance seemed ripened in a moment . 
`` I must say good morning , '' said she , in a rather low tone , but so decidedly , that George , perceiving any attempt for a longer interview to be hopeless , put his card into her hand and departed -- not without a secret vow that he would yet baffle the duenna . 
The sixty-five miles seemed rather long this time , and his father remarked upon the difficulties which he must have encountered , to account for a two days ' absence , and such a worn-out air . 
Yet all this time George persuaded himself that it was not worth whileto mention his new acquaintance . 
He , with his old head upon young shoulders , -- pattern of nice young men ! 
George found it easier to learn to perform the Templeville trip in the space of twenty-four hours , although it was , in reality , pretty good work for twice that time . 
In truth , it began to be necessary for him to take Templeville in his way to any point of the compass ; and , at last , chance , or some other power that favours the determined , gave him an unexpected advantage . 
But George was on the other side of it before she could have had time to quote the line . 
We are not sure that Julia told George all this . 
The garden interview was prolonged until the ruddy-fingered serving-maid was sent to seek Miss Julia ; and as George was , on that occasion , put behind a thicket of lilacs for the moment , we infer that a considerable degree of intimacy had by this time been established between the young people . 
Peaches were like little green velvet buttons when George was first mistaken for Dr. Beasley , and before they were ripe , he had learned to think it a small matter to ride one hundred and thirty miles in twenty-four hours , for the sake of spending an hour or two in the cottage garden at Templeville , and occasionally getting a cup of tea from the unwilling fingers of Mrs. Roberts . 
He had , in the mean time , become the object of much remark at home . 
He had always been fond of a good horse , and rather celebrated for his equestrian skill ; but people began to call him a jockey now -- so many fine animals did he purchase , and so many did he discard again after only one trial on the Templeville road . 
George rode like the Wild Huntsman , and his pursuers were nearly as well mounted . 
George reached the tavern , and went , as was his wont , immediately to the stables , to see his horse cared for . 
He examined several stalls before he chose one , and was giving his directions to the ostler when he was rather roughly accosted by two persons , who took their places on either side of him , and began in very aggressive style asking him various questions . 
George 's hard riding pointed him out as the delinquent ; and his having gone into several stalls on his first arrival , led the bystanders to suppose he had been seeking for a place to secrete his booty . 
George , who was anxious beyond every thing to be on his way to the cottage , and who , likewise , felt exceedingly unwilling to call upon his only acquaintance in the village , knowing that would be to insure a faithful report of the whole affair at home , offered to submit to a search , provided it might be performed in private and without unnecessary delay . 
To this , after some consultation , the old gentleman agreed ; and the landlord , -LRB- who , by the way , disclaimed all knowledge of the accused , except that he had made a great many inquiries as to the people at the cottage , -RRB- was showing the way through the crowd to an inner room , when George encountered Mr. Henderson , the person to whom he was known . 
Julia 's power , however , was irresistible ; and George , perceiving that Mr. Henderson knew his accuser , requested an introduction , which was accordingly performed , to the great discomfiture of the old gentleman , who became unpleasantly sensible that his wild goose chase had led him a great way from his lost money , ruined a fine horse , and brought him into very unpleasant circumstances with a young gentleman , who , upon close examination , did not look half so much like a gallows-bird as he had supposed . 
George , of course , disclaimed any such wish , and , only anxious to see Julia , he shook hands with his accuser and hurried off . 
Before he shut the door , the old gentleman stopped him . 
George laughed , said he was fond of fast riding , and disappeared . 
Julia , in tears , and all the despair of nineteen , met George with the intelligence that her aunt , after appearing to favour them , must have played them false , and induced the uncle to insist upon an immediate change of residence . 
said George . 
As Julia said this , sobbing all the time as if her little heart would break , not for her uncle 's loss , but her own woes , the door opened , and George 's new acquaintance walked in . 
Then , coming nearer , and taking a better look at George , who had thrown off the India-rubber overcoat which western men are wont to wear when showers are probable , he burst into a hearty laugh as he recognized the object of his former suspicions . 
`` No , sir , '' said George , glad of so good an opening for his suit , `` No , sir ; it is your niece , without any pocket-book at all . '' 
But he probably thought he owed some reparation for his hasty accusation , for , when the year was out , George got the niece and the pocket-book too ; but he could not regain his reputation as the mirror of prudence . 
We have never heard , however , that this detracted materially from his happiness . 
