It was in the summer of 1661 , the eldest child of Dudley , a son named William , who was about fifteen years old , and his youngest , a daughter called Rachel , scarcely two , when some disagreements having fallen out between the native Indians and the English settlers , the former frequently made inroads on the latter , plundering and burning their habitations , and either massacreing the inhabitants , or taking them prisoners and carrying them up the country , where they often exercised on them the most wanton barbarity ; scalping , maiming and disfiguring them , if at last they suffered them to escape with life . 
But the little Rachel was not inclined to be quiet ; she was more inclined for play than sitting still . 
She climbed up in her mother 's lap , kissed her , and in childish sport threw the book on the floor . 
`` It is impossible to attend seriously to any thing , '' said her mother , `` whilst this little mad-cap is here . 
Starting from her seat with precipitation , she turned towards the window , and saw a band of savages crossing through a field of corn , not very far from the house . 
my children , '' she cried , taking the two youngest by the hand ; and followed by the eldest , they rushed out of a door that led a contrary way to the road the savages were coming . 
With hasty , yet trembling steps , she led her children thither ; nor was it till resting on the ground in its remotest winding , when she felt her five children hanging about her , that she recollected William and Rachel . 
cried she franticly , `` is your brother William , and your sister Rachel ? '' 
He saw there would be no way to escape them ; so , clasping the infant Rachel in his arms , he knelt on the ground , fear almost suspending every faculty . 
One of the foremost of the savage troop had raised his tomahawk to dispatch the boy ; but the child , with one arm clinging to her brother 's neck , extended the other little innocent hand as if to ward off the blow , and screaming , cried , `` Do n'tee , do n'tee . '' 
At that moment a squaw , who held a papouse at her breast , threw herself before the suppliant children , and said in their own language , `` You shall not kill the infant . '' 
Her own infant being returned to her back , -LRB- the mode in which the Indian women in general carry their children -RRB- she took Rachel in her arms ; and William being made to assist in carrying their plunder , they proceeded on their march ; a weary march it was to the poor little captives . 
Otawee , for that was the name of their protectress , did all she could to make little Rachel easy , but she continued at intervals to cry for her mother ; and William , his feet lacerated by the sharp flints and thorns he encountered in the rugged paths through which he was obliged to pass , his heart bleeding for what he thought must have been the fate of his beloved parents , brothers and sisters , proceeded as well as he could till towards the evening of the second day , when , overcome with fatigue , grief and long fasting , -LRB- for he could not eat the food they offered him -RRB- he fell fainting to the earth . 
On their way thither , meeting with a party who came from the more eastern parts ; and , fearful that the young captives they had , might , if seen , betray them to the English , they sold them , and William and Rachel were carried to a greater distance than it could hardly be believed possible for the Indians to proceed in their little birch canoes . 
His wife was particularly pleased with little Rachel , and the kindness of these two good Indians rendered the lives of the brother and sister as comfortable as the nature of their situation would admit of . 
The joy such an unexpected meeting occasioned , would have been too exquisite for human nature to support , had it not been allayed by the certainty that William and Rachel were lost beyond hope of recovery . 
As the little Rachel increased in years , it was the employment of her brother 's leisure hours , to instruct her in the English language in the best manner possible . 
The book he had with him , on the morning of his capture , was of infinite assistance to him , as by looking at that , he was enabled to form a very tolerable alphabet upon bark , using some of their strong dye instead of ink ; and this alphabet served alike , Otooganoo , Rachel and Oberea , who delighted in partaking their lessons , and profited daily by his instructions . 
The young man , frantic at what had happened , told what he had done , and that he feared he had killed both the girls ; but Rachel 's fall was the effect of sudden surprise , and it was soon discovered she was not in the least hurt . 
He raised her in his arms , called aloud for help , and having assisted his sister and an old squaw , to staunch the blood , and bind up the wounds , which were chiefly in the fleshy part of the arm , and having seen her open her eyes , and sign to him that she knew him , he walked backwards and forwards , watching her as she dozed , sometimes applying a feather to her mouth to be satisfied she still breathed , and often kneeling down to kiss her hand , which lay motionless on the outside of the bed . 
As the old sachem felt his hour approaching , he called his chiefs , and the oldest men of his tribe , about him ; and taking the little Reuben in his arms , whilst Oberea , William and Rachel stood on his right hand , thus addressed them : `` Warriors and Chiefs , Natives and undoubted Lords of this vast country , listen to your departing father . 
The beauty of Rachel had penetrated his soul . 
The soul of Rachel was equally agitated . 
She dared not pray , for to which party could she wish success ? 
save , protect and support my father , '' she would cry ; then in a moment recollecting , she would wring her hands and cry , `` Oh ! 
Yankoo recoiled with horror ; he beheld his ruler , his friend , and more than those , the brother of Rachel , weltering in gore , wounded even unto death , and by his hand . 
But who can paint the anguish , the distress of Rachel , or the distraction of Oberea ? 
Oberea led her son Reuben -LRB- now nearly six years old -RRB- to the bed on which lay the corse of his father , and pointing to the body , pronounced in a tone deeply mournful , `` Behold ! '' 
The feelings of Rachel would have been equally poignant , had they not been directed to another channel . 
She had , as she entered the apartment , faintly articulated the word brother . 
Arrabella caught the sound , and calling her daughter by name , Rachel was folded in a moment to her bosom , and in the embrace of a new-found mother , felt a relief from her sorrows . 
By the united efforts of Rachel and Arrabella , Oberea was at last aroused from that state of apparent insensibility into which she had fallen . 
Rachel released her arms from the neck of her child , and drew her gently towards her mother , who soothed , caressed , and called her her dear daughter , the relic of her beloved William . 
At the name of William , she started . 
Rachel of consequence accompanied her mother ; and Oberea , attached to them by every tender tie , would not be left behind . 
`` The mother and the son of my William , '' said she , `` I will follow to the furthermost part of the earth . '' 
Rachel , true to the first impulse of her heart , refused to marry , though her beauty and sweetness had attracted many suitors . 
`` I may , '' she would say , `` find men more accomplished , who will talk with more eloquence , are more polished in their manners ; but where shall I find the equal to Yankoo for sincerity ? '' 
Rachel preferred a state of `` single blessedness . '' 
Oberea lived to see her son attain his twenty-third year , to see him beloved and respected by all who knew him ; she then fell a victim to an autumnal fever . 
She had lived beloved , and died universally lamented . 
Reuben wished his aunt Rachel to stay in the family and manage his household . 
It was the very thing her heart wished for . 
`` My sister , '' said she , smiling , `` will have enough to do to nurse and educate her children . '' 
aunt Rachel was wrong in her predictions ; for Reuben was married above ten years before he had the least prospect of a young family . 
She heard she was a mother , blessed her children , and recommended them strongly to the protection of their father , and the care of aunt Rachel . 
said her husband , bending over the bed with affection . 
`` They shall be called after the two beings I love most , '' said she , extending a hand to her aunt and husband . 
`` Call them Reuben and Rachel . '' 
A sudden faintness seized her as she spoke . 
Gently , and without pain , her pure spirit passed from its earthly to its eternal mansion . 
Aunt Rachel presided over the household , and superintended the nursery . 
Reuben and Rachel were by no means superior to the generality of children of their age and condition . 
Rachel was a lively brown girl , and both she and her brother very soon discovered , that by crying vociferously they could obtain almost any thing . 
Aunt Rachel would not suffer the dear creatures to be crossed , and papa thought them , without exception , the sweetest , most charming children in the universe . 
Rachel was modest , unassuming , meek , timid and affectionate . 
Possessed of a good understanding , a quick and clear perception , and a strong memory , the task of instructing her was most delightful . 
Daily , nay , almost hourly did her mind unfold some new , some unexpected beauty . 
Her love of literature , and the rapid progress she made in every study in which she engaged , at once charmed and astonished her aunt and father . 
But her extreme diffidence prevented her excellencies from being universally known , and it was only by a long and intimate acquaintance her intrinsic worth could be discovered . 
Yet Rachel was not faultless . 
The meekness of her temper was such , that resentment was a stranger to her bosom . 
An injury was no more remembered than as it had given pain to her heart , and that heart , moulded by the hand of pure innocence , was credulous in the extreme . 
Her excessive anxiety to see others happy , made her inattentive to the means of promoting or preserving her own happiness ; and if any one professed to love her , though but a moment before they had held a dagger to her breast , she would have forgot the intended injury , and never doubting their sincerity , admitted them to her confidence and friendship . 
Her affection for her brother was equal to his for her . 
Such were Reuben and Rachel at ten years of age . 
Their father doted on them with the tenderest affection , and aunt Rachel thought they were the most superior beings in the whole universe . 
She would sometimes talk to them about America , describe the vast woods , boundless plains , majestic rivers , and extensive lakes of that great continent . 
`` I should like to go too , '' Rachel would say , `` but I am sure I should be afraid to go to sea . '' 
The children felt theirs awakened , and softly opening the door of their father 's study , they slipped out , and ran into the parlour to aunt Rachel . 
Aunt Rachel was , it is true , an old maid . 
Her dear brother William seemed to stand in miniature before her . 
The form of Yankoo arose to her remembrance . 
Oberea too seemed present ; and when the boy asked her if she knew whose crown that was , her feelings were so powerful as for a moment to suspend her answer . 
`` It was my brother 's , '' said she in a mournful tone , taking it from the child 's head and laying it on her own knee ; `` I have seen him wear it often . '' 
`` Pray , aunt , '' said Rachel , `` do you remember my grandmother ? '' 
`` I will tell you , '' replied aunt Rachel . 
It was a subject on which she delighted to expatiate . 
She stirred up the fire , folded up her work , and placing the attentive children on each side of her , began . 
Aunt Rachel was minute in her recital . 
At the account of her capture , Rachel wept ; but Reuben started from his seat , his countenance glowing with resentment , and cried , `` I wish I had been there . '' 
When she recounted the death of Otooganoo , and the solemn manner in which he recommended their father -LRB- then an infant -RRB- to the care of the chiefs , `` Good old man , '' said Rachel , in the most expressive accent of affection , `` what a pity he should die . '' 
asked Rachel , in a mournful voice . 
I am sure we are very happy here , and papa would not be willing to part with us , and aunt Rachel too would miss us . '' 
Aunt Rachel smiled , to hear how eagerly the fancy of youth catches at the hope of future greatness , and how readily they connect the ideas of grandeur , affluence , and numerous attendants , to the possession of a title . 
She gazed for a moment with pleasure on his intelligent countenance , which the emotions of his little swelling heart had lighted up with uncommon animation ; and paused , unwilling to throw a damp on those delightful sensations he appeared to enjoy . 
At length , `` What would you say , '' cried she , `` if I were to tell you that your grandfather had no attendants except a few warriors , who , from voluntary attachment to his person , followed to protect him from danger ; that he had neither horse nor carriage ; that his palace was chiefly composed of the bark of trees ; that his bed was the skins of wild beasts , and his seat of state the trunk of an old tree , hewn into something resembling a chair , covered with beaver and other skins , and its ornaments the teeth of tygers , polished shells and fish bones ? '' 
`` But he was good , '' said Rachel , `` and consequently happy . '' 
`` Sweet children , '' said aunt Rachel , `` those are consequences which ought ever to follow goodness , bravery and wisdom . 
`` A passion , my dear Rachel , to which I hope you will ever remain a stranger . '' 
Thus the father of Rachel and Reuben , being himself a man of peace , fond of retirement and the study of agriculture , thought he could not render them a more acceptable service , than to prepare them a habitation , where they might enjoy uninterrupted quiet ; where plenty would preside at the board , and the study of nature , in all her varieties and beauties , enliven solitude . 
He placed his son at a public school to finish his education , and making proper arrangements for the support of his family during his absence -LRB- which he imagined would be about two years -RRB- he entrusted Rachel to the care of her aunt , with instructions , that in case of death she should remove to the house , and submit to the direction of her maternal uncle , Hezekiah Penn. . 
Reuben and Rachel were in their thirteenth year when this separation took place . 
When the carriage came to the door that was to convey Reuben from her , Rachel burst into an agony of tears . 
she cried , hanging round his neck . 
Aunt Rachel drew her niece from the door , from the parting embrace of her brother -LRB- who was led to the carriage by his father -RRB- and by degrees composed and consoled her . 
Reubenand Rachel had , during the absence of their father , increased in stature , and improved in mental acquirements . 
Rachel was now approaching womanhood ; tall , straight , and well-proportioned . 
An intelligent animation lighted up her countenance , which prepossessed the beholder , at first sight , in her favour . 
Reuben almost idolized his sister , and when the holidays permitted his annual visit , never were three human beings more superlatively happy , than the brother , sister , and aunt Rachel . 
`` It is from your father , '' said aunt Rachel ; `` take it , Reuben , and read it . '' 
`` IT is with satisfaction of the purest kind , that I take up my pen to inform my dear aunt Rachel and my beloved children , that the business which brought me to this place is at length finished , and the completion of it is equal to my most sanguine expectations . 
`` I suppose my darlings , Reuben and Rachel , are almost grown out of knowledge . 
Tell my dearest Rachel , that if she emulates the virtues and perfections of her sainted mother , she will be every thing that is amiable . 
`` But brother , '' said Rachel , `` look at the date of my father 's letter , and remember what he said about sailing in October : why , my dear brother , he will be home very soon . '' 
`` He may arrive in a few days , '' said aunt Rachel . 
He had casually glanced his eye towards her as he was speaking , and beheld her interesting countenance pale as ashes . 
said Rachel , whose attention was awakened by her brother 's question ; `` is the room too warm ? '' 
The dry manner in which he spoke , the look he cast towards her , recalled the roses to the cheeks of Jessy . 
She affected to laugh at the idea ; but it was not the laugh of nature . 
Her heart was full , and her eyes had nearly betrayed its feelings . 
She was charmed with the unaffected naivetteof Rachel , and the more she knew of her the more she loved her ; and though unperceived by herself , the friendship she conceived for the sister strengthened her partiality for the brother . 
Jessy looked at Rachel with admiration . 
`` How much you are like your brother , '' she would say . 
poor Jessy ; she was unconscious , that it was that resemblance which chiefly drew her heart , with irresistible power , towards her new friend . 
The mind of Jessy was as pure as the chaste dew which glitters in an April morn upon the bosom of a half-blown snowdrop ; and when with undissembled joy she flew to meet him on his arrival in Lancashire , and presented her hand and smiling mouth to greet him , it was with the sensations of a seraph who welcomes a kindred spirit to the mansions of the blest . 
Thus pure , thus susceptible , thus fearless of evil , were the hearts of Reuben , Rachel , and their fair friend Jessy Oliver ; when on the evening just mentioned , the reception of the letter , the eagerness Reuben expressed to embark for America , and the remark uncle Hezekiah made on the sudden sickness of Jessy , awakened new ideas in the breasts of all . 
Rachel seated herself on the other side , and asked , with innocent earnestness , `` if she was not better now . '' 
`` Yes , '' replied Jessy , almost unconscious that she spoke at all . 
`` I thought you were , '' said Rachel , with the greatest simplicity ; `` for the colour is returned to your lips and cheeks . '' 
The remark did not make her paler . 
said Rachel . 
said aunt Rachel , who , having experienced the dangers of the sea herself , felt more sensibly the perils to which her nephew might be exposed , should he be coming near the land on such a stormy night . 
said Rachel . 
my dear brother , it is impossible , '' said Rachel ; `` only hear how the wind roars . '' 
`` Then promise you will not attempt to go off in a boat , my dear Reuben , '' said Rachel . 
Reuben handed Miss Oliver to her carriage , and then , accompanied by Hezekiah , made all possible speed to Liverpool ; whilst aunt Rachel and her niece passed the night in traversing the apartment , listening to the storm , and ejaculating fervent prayers for the preservation of the unhappy sailors , whose perils -LRB- they were assured by the repeated discharge of guns -RRB- still continued . 
Neither of them attempted to rest ; they spoke but little , but each in silence indulged her own melancholy thoughts . 
Aunt Rachel had , added to the anxiety she felt for her nephew 's safety , a presentiment that , should any thing happen to him , his children would be involved in very disagreeable circumstances . 
Mr. Dudley had not entrusted her with the exact situation of his affairs previous to his leaving England . 
He had told her she might draw on his agent , Atkins , for two hundred pounds each year , and that Atkins had also orders to pay for Reuben 's education , and defray all his expenses ; but she knew that the last half year of Reuben 's board remained unpaid , and she had herself received a letter , recommending prudence to her , and hinting , should Mr. Dudley extend his stay abroad another six months , he , Atkins , should not be able to supply the money necessary for house-keeping . 
This had previously given birth to many uneasy reflections ; and now that she found he had drawn for so large a sum , and given Atkins unlimited power to sell or mortgage part of the Lancashire estate , she feared , should any fatal accident prevent his reaching England , Reuben and Rachel might be severe sufferers , in more ways than the loss of a father . 
For herself , she had no fears ; and though the half of that estate constituted the whole of her worldly possessions , yet such was the native philanthropy of her mind , so little was self regarded , and with such enthusiasm did she regard the offspring of her lamented brother William , that to supply the smallest of their wants , she would have cheerfully divested herself of even the common necessaries of life . 
Aunt Rachel was now nearly approaching her sixty-fifth year ; but temperance , cheerfulness , and a decent competence , joined to a constitution firm by nature , had given even to this advanced period , strength of intellect , hilarity of spirits , and uncommon personal vigour . 
In reflections like those just mentioned on her part , and earnest prayers for her father 's safety and her brother 's return on the part of Rachel , was the wearisome night passed . 
`` I wonder my brother do n't return , '' said Rachel . 
`` I wish he may bring us good news when he does come , '' replied her aunt . 
From the rising of the sun , till it passed the meridian , Rachel scarcely for a moment quitted the window that looked towards the road . 
At length , about three o'clock , she saw her brother slowly winding down the hill . 
my dear aunt , here comes Reuben , '' cried she . 
`` But he comes not like the messenger of joy , '' replied aunt Rachel . 
The affectionate sister ran to open the door , and receive her brother . 
said she eagerly , as he led her into the parlour . 
said aunt Rachel . 
The tears started into Renben 's eyes as he spoke ; Rachel wept audibly . 
`` Weep not , my children , '' said she , `` but trust in God . 
said Rachel . 
`` I think , '' replied her aunt , `` that it is more than probable your father was in the ship which was last night lost . '' 
Rachel was the earliest riser in the family ; she had been up above an hour when the newspaper was brought , as it was customary twice a week from Liverpool . 
She took it from the servant , and as she held it to the fire to dry , the following paragraph met her eyes . 
Rachel read no more . 
The paper fell from her hands , and sense , feeling , almost life itself , was for a while suspended . 
She sunk on the floor , her head rested on the elbow of her aunt 's easy chair , her eyes were open , but she was as devoid of speech and motion as a statue . 
In this situation her brother found her . 
my dear Rachel ! '' 
he exclaimed , eagerly raising her . 
His voice recalled her fleeting senses . 
She threw her arms round his neck , faintly articulated , `` Our father ! 
and nature relieved her bursting heart by a violent gush of tears . 
Aunt Rachel was prepared for the intelligence ; her heart had presaged it from the first . 
She bore it with the fortitude of a Christian , though she felt it as acutely as her niece . 
But she had learnt to repress her feelings , and to bow with resignation to the will of an all-wife Providence . 
Itmay naturally be supposed , that when the heavy misfortune Reuben and Rachel had sustained was universally known , condolements of form and fashion poured in upon them , and some few offered consolation with sincerity , and participated in their afflictions with feelings truly philanthropic . 
She arose with a resolution of passing the day with Rachel , took an early breakfast , and by nine o'clock was at her habitation . 
Anguish of heart had so enervated the mental faculties of our heroine , that she no longer arose with the lark , sought employment with avidity , or pursued it with alacrity . 
she would say ; `` I have no expectation now to cheer me ; no fond hope of a returning father 's smiles and approbation rewarding my labours . '' 
Her mind occupied by reflections such as these , Rachel gave more hours to her pillow than was her usual custom ; not that she found there the rest she sought ; but there she could weep unrestrained , there she could uninterruptedly indulge in contemplation . 
And if haply sleep for a few hours steeped her senses in forgetfulness , she blessed the sweet oblivion , and courted its return . 
She was seated at the breakfast table when Miss Oliver entered . 
Yet her speaking eye met the glance of Rachel 's ; its expression conveyed more than was in the power of words ; it said , in the most intelligent language , Dear Rachel , I feel , I participate your sorrows . 
Rachel felt its sincerity , its energy , and was relieved . 
said she mentally , how far preferable is this to the profusion of words , with which the unfeeling attempt to console me . 
She returned the pressure of Jessy 's hand ; a few tears escaped from her eyes ; Reuben kissed them off , and seating himself opposite the two charming young women , contemplated them till his own eyes were suffused ; and the suffusion did honour to his heart , to nature , to reason , to manhood ! 
How long this silence might have continued , is uncertain ; but it was abruptly interrupted by aunt Rachel , who entered the apartment , followed by a diminutive figure habited in a grey coat , black waistcoat and breeches , an immense and not very fashionable peruke , high boots , a very deep pair of ruffles , and a long neckcloth twisted through the fourth button-hole of his waistcoat . 
His black eyes , which were not the less penetrating for being extremely small , darted their glances at the three interesting figures that presented themselves in the persons of Reuben , Rachel , and Miss Oliver . 
Rachel rose from her seat . 
Her sorrows seemed to retire within her heart , and a dignified composure took possession of her features , as she received and returned his compliments . 
`` This gentleman comes from Mr. Atkins , '' said aunt Rachel , as pointing to the sofa on which Reuben had sat , she motioned for him to be seated . 
`` Mr. Dudley , I presume , '' turning toward Reuben , `` and Miss Dadley , his charming sister , -LRB- bowing to Rachel -RRB- if I may judge from your mourning habits . 
The mention of her father had called forth the smothered sensibility of Rachel ; but the conclusion repelled it by rousing her indignation . 
said she , in a voice scarcely articulate . 
repeated Rachel . 
said Rachel , folding her hands across her breast , as if to accelerate her breathing , which was evidently laboured . 
`` I suppose , '' said aunt Rachel , `` you know that half the estate is mine . '' 
`` And in the mean time how are we to live , '' said Rachel . 
cried Rachel , `` whither shall we go ? 
`` And poor aunt Rachel too , what will become of her ? '' 
said Rachel , tenderly taking her hand , which hung passively over the arm of her chair , as lost in painful thought she leaned her head against the side of it . 
`` What will become of her ? '' 
Yes , '' continued he , fervently clasping his hands , and dropping on his knees before them ; `` yes , here in the sight of Heaven , I vow to dedicate my life to her and you . 
I pray thee , Rachel Dudley , be not down hearted , but come to my mansion ; bring these children with thee , and He who feedeth the young ravens will provide the means of subsistence . '' 
His friendly offers , and the endearing kindness of Miss Oliver , healed the bleeding hearts of Reuben and Rachel , and even aunt Rachel was revived by their influence . 
When she had again embraced Rachel , she turned towards Reuben . 
`` Mr. Dudley , '' said she , `` the friendship of a girl like me is an offering of so trifling a nature , I hardly know whether you will think it worth accepting . 
doubt it not , charming Miss Oliver , '' said he , pressing her hand to his lips ; while she , fearful that she had said more than the exact line of propriety she had prescribed to herself rendered allowable , hurried to her carriage , to hide emotions she found it impossible to stifle . 
Atkins having now taken the management of the estate eutirely into his own hands , pretended to advance money himself for the liquidation of Mr. Dudley 's debts , and at the end of three months laid before Hezekiah Penn , Reuben and aunt Rachel , a statement of accounts , which , to the minds of these three inexperienced , honest children of simplicity , made it appear as so involved , that it would be a long term of years before it could even clear itself . 
Nay , fancy would so powerfully take possession of his mind , that she would sometimes carry him a second time across the Atlantic ocean , and place him tranquilly in the habitation his father had described , surround him with a blooming offspring , and give them Jessy Oliver for a mother , his sister too heightening by partaking their felicity ; and even provide a snug corner and easy chair for aunt Rachel . 
From the time of Mr. Dudley 's unfortunate death , aunt Rachel 's spirits flagged . 
She was no longer the life of every society in which she mixed . 
The loss of her little independence , the being obliged to the hand of charity for her daily bread , depressed her generous mind . 
The destitute situation too of her darlings , Reuben and Rachel , was a heavy affliction . 
Rest and appetite forsook her . 
The anxiety she suffered for his safety brought on a slow nervous fever , and gradually undermined her constitution . 
Rachel watched over her with unremitting tenderness and attention ; administered every medicine ; read to her , prayed by her ; endeavoured to cheer her by affected serenity when she was awake , and wept over her with agony when she slept . 
Aunt Rachel departed this life , and our heroine felt , as the last breath lingered on the lips of her maternal friend , that in losing her she should become forlorn , unconnected , and be left to struggle through a world with which she was totally unacquainted , without a comforter , adviser , or protector . 
Reuben still lived , to be sure , but Reuben was far , very far from her ; and should she stand in need of advice or protection , she might be lost , and Reuben not even hear of her distress till she was past the reach of relief or assistance . 
Occupied by reflections such as these , Rachel would often strey into the rural church-yard , where , resting on the `` lap of earth , '' lay the remains of her mother and her lamented aunt . 
Rachel seated herself on the fragment of a broken tomb-stone , and casting her eyes upon a new-made grave , where that very afternoon a youth had been interred , the only son of a farmer in the neighbourhood , she , almost unknown to herself , audibly repeated the following stanzas . 
`` My lovely moralist , '' said a voice , as Rachel finished the last sentence , `` if you sit here much longer , you will stand a chance of soon being as tranquil as that poor youth . 
Rachel rose , turned her head , and beheld the apothecary of the village . 
Studious from her infancy , of an inquiring genius , eager in the pursuit of knowledge , and attentive to the conversation of those who had the power to impart it , Rachel at the age of twelve had prefered a conversation with the doctor , to a ride or a ramble with her young companions . 
Charmed by her ardent thirst for instruction , the old gentleman would answer her questions , correct her errors , direct her studies , and labour to give her an unaffected turn for literature and the polite arts . 
When Rachel painted or worked flowers , the Doctor would assist her in arranging her shades with propriety ; describing , as he sat beside her while she worked , the natures , properties and use of every plant , shrub or flower . 
If she read , he corrected her pronunciation , and taught her how to convey the full sense of what she read to her auditors , by a pleasing modulation of voice . 
If she wrote , he would point out the errors in her style , and often has been heard to say , It was a great pity she could not speak and read Latin . 
Rachel started . 
said she . 
my dear Sir , '' said Rachel , `` have I not cause to be afflicted ? 
Cheered and comforted by conversation such as this , the melancholy cloud began to disperse from the brow of Rachel . 
Her features assumed a sweet , an interesting composure ; and , arrived at the dwelling of the good Doctor , she consented to go in and partake of his supper . 
For the house of Hezekiah Penn was within five minute 's walk of the Doctor 's , and a lad was dispatched to inform him that Rachel was safe , but would sup out . 
Mrs. Auberry rose from her seat , and taking the hand of Rachel , cried , `` Welcome indeed . '' 
Then turning to an elegant young man in military uniform , she continued , `` My dear Hamden , give me leave to present you to Miss Dudley . 
The majectic figure , the soft , melancholy countenance of Rachel , rendered more striking by her deep mourning habit , -LRB- for Rachel was not Quaker enough to neglect that outward token of respect to the memory of departed friends -RRB- made her appear in the eyes of the young soldier almost divine . 
She bowed her head , and presented her hand with a grace peculiar to herself . 
Rachel was sensible of the pressure , and life 's warm fluid , rushing impetuously to her heart , from thence sprang to her cheeks , and gave uncommon animation to her expressive countenance . 
The artless , unaffected manner of Rachel , afforded him the most delicate pleasure , whilst beholding and conversing with her ; for it was so apparent in every word , look , smile of her 's , that she was unconscious of her own charms , that those charms became the more striking , the more fascinating . 
About half past ten , he waited on Rachel to the door of her uncle 's mansion , and then returned to tell his mother she was the only woman he had ever seen , who in the least appeared to him in every particular what a woman ought to be . 
WhenHamden Auberry had seen Rachel to her uncle 's door and rapped at it , politeness obliged him to wait till it was opened , which it was by Tabitha herself . 
But when , without noticing Tabitha , Hamden bowed to our heroine , and kissing her hand with an air of gallantry , wished her a good night , she became troubled in spirit that Rachel should have submitted to such an abomination quietly . 
With upright head , her long , scraggy neck stretching to its utmost extent , from a consciousness of her own purity , in silent solemnity Tabitha stalked into the parlour , where sat Hezekiah almost dozing in his easy chair . 
Rachel sat down on the other , side , and affectionately bending over the chair , asked her uncle how he was . 
`` Then it was a pity my uncle did not go to bed , '' said Rachel innocently . 
`` Thou art both an unthinking and an unfeeling girl , Rachel Dudley , else wouldest thou know that anxiety for thy safety kept him up . 
Rachel ! 
Rachel ! 
`` Bless me , '' said Rachel , `` what can you mean ? 
Hezekiah had taken her hand , which in her earnestness she had laid on his knee , gave it a gentle pressure , and was beginning to speak ; but Tabitha interrupted him , and he knew it would be in vain to attempt being heard , when she was inclined to talk . 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Rachel tartly ; `` my father despised both formality and hypocrisy . '' 
`` Rachel ! 
Rachel ! 
cried Rachel , her spirits no longer able to support her against the absurd accusations of Tabitha . 
God bless you , my dear Sir , '' said she ; `` the unhappy Rachel will not long be a trouble to you . '' 
`` Amen , '' said Rachel servently , darting an indignant look at Tabitha ; then rising and taking the candle from the table , she went towards the door ; but the natural philanthropy of her mind would not suffer her to part in enmity with any one . 
She turned towards Tabitha . 
Tabitha was sullenly silent , and Rachel retired to her solitary apartment , wept a few moments , knelt , and commended herself to the protection of Heaven ; was composed and comforted by the action , retired to bed , and sunk into the arms of repose . 
Rachel 's heart was uncontaminated ; envy , hatred , jealousy , were equal strangers to it . 
Her sleep was undisturbed and refreshing ; her dreams the visitation of ministering angels . 
When Rachel left the parlour , Tabitha began speaking to Hezekiah , but he arose from his seat . 
`` My head aches , '' said he , `` I can sit up no longer . '' 
Then taking his own candle , which stood ready on the table , he bade Tabby good-night and retired to his apartment . 
`` I will alter my will to-morrow , '' said Hezekiah , as he laid his head on the pillow ; -LRB- for , some years previous to the death of Mr. Dudley , this will had been made highly in Tabitha 's favour -RRB- `` I will alter my will , '' said he , `` it will not be right to leave my fair and good kinswoman Rachel , dependent on a person whose understanding is weak , and whose heart is contracted . '' 
`` Let me change your plate , dear uncle , '' said Rachel , removing the one before him and setting one in its place on which she had previously laid the wing of a chicken . 
It has grieved me to see the little dissensions which have of late taken place between you and my niece Rachel , who , though younger , livelier , more free from prejudice than yourself , is nevertheless one of the best and most unoffending creatures in the world . 
Let me see you friends , '' continued he , taking Rachel 's hand and joining it with Tabitha 's . 
Rachel could not speak , Tabitha would not , and Hezekiah continued : `` You will find on the opening of my will , Dr. Lenient , that I have not forgot the services I have received from my ancient kinswoman ; but I am sorry -- I meant to alter -- I wish her to give -- '' His voice again faultered -- `` to give her -- '' said he with extreme difficulty . 
`` No , '' exclaimed the dying man ; then struggling violently , he at length articulated , `` Give her half . '' 
Now the good-hearted Doctor fully comprehended what Hezekiah meant when he said , `` Give her half . '' 
But Tabitha wilfully misconstrued the expression ; and when the will was read , which gave the house , land , cattle , plate , furniture , & c. to Tabitha Holdfast , in consideration of her more than sisterly kindness , '' Dr. Lenient intimating , that he expected she would make a fair and equitable division of the whole with Rachel , in compliance with what he understood to be the intention of the testator from his last words , she calmly replied . 
I am certain our dear departed brother Hezekiah -- '' And here the handkerchief visited her eyes ; but it returned Dry as the chaff , which , flitting in the wind , Too light to be depress 'd by trifling showers , Defies the blast , and flutters o'er the heath ; Or , like the downy plumage of the swan , White and unsullied . 
-- `` I am certain , '' she continued , `` he meant not the participation thou wouldest insinuate ; for when -LRB- ever eager to interpret and prevent his wishes -RRB- I mentioned giving her fifty or sixty guineas , he said , `` Give her half ; '' and by his dying words I shall most surely abide . '' 
`` He meant to say , '' cried the Doctor vehemently , `` that you should give her half of all he died possessed of . '' 
`` It may be to thy advantage , friend , -LRB- said she sneeringly -RRB- to have his last will so understood . 
The singular attentions of one of thy relatives to Rachel has not passed unnoticed ; and I think thy family is remarkable for promoting its own interest at the expense of others . '' 
Rachel arose to light him to the door . 
Saying which , he shook her hand and left her . 
Rachel soon perceived the full extent of her unhappy situation . 
The morning after the interment of her uncle , Tabitha paid her thirty guineas , and from that moment she found that she was looked upon as an intruder in the family . 
Rachel was not of a spirit to brook the cold hauteur of Tabitha . 
For Hamden knew he should have many obstacles to encounter , should he give way to a passion for a woman in the state of life in which fortune had placed Rachel . 
Rachel saw the struggle of his mind , and , attributing that to pride which was only the effect of caution , resolved never to intrude herself into a family which would look upon her connexion as degrading to its principal branch . 
Having therefore formed a plan for her future conduct , Rachel took an affectionate leave of the worthy Doctor and his sister , and a very cool one of Tabitha , and departed in the stage-coach for London , resolving to consult and advise with her friend Jeffy Oliver , in regard to her executing the scheme she had thought of for her subsistence till she should hear from Reuben . 
Hamden was absent at the time of Rachel 's departure on a fishing party , and on his return , his mother merely informed him that Miss Dudley was gone to London ; but wishing to put a stop to any further intimacy between them , she did not mention with whom she would reside , or how long her stay might probably be in the metropolis ; and as he was engaged to pass the autumn with lady Anne in Scotland , he was not so inquisitive as he might otherwise have been . 
Rachel got safe to the end of her journey without meeting with any adventure on the road . 
But unaccustomed to travelling , she was greatly fatigued ; and when she entered the busy streets of London , the noise , confusion and hurry made her head giddy ; the disagreeable effluvia too , which assailed her olfactory herves as she alighted from the coach in a very close lane in the city , turned her extremely sick , and she would have fallen , had not a spruce young man , who was waiting for another coach to arrive , caught her by the arm , and led her into the house , where a few drops and water revived her , and she began to inquire for a conveyance in which she might proceed to her lodgings . 
A hackney-coach was sent for , and while she waited for it , the young man re-entered the parlour where she was sitting , introducing a middle-aged woman , dressed to the extremity of the fashion . 
`` Much better , Sir , I thank you , '' said Rachel . 
Rachel looked at the direction in her memorandum book , and Miss La Varone exclaimed , `` Well , as I 'm alive , we are both going to the same place . 
Rachel knew but little of the world in general , and less of London than almost any other place ; yet there was a something within her , a kind of native rectitude , that told her not to be too easy in agreeing to the proposal of the strangers who said they would all go to Mrs. Webster 's together . 
Her dress , it is true , was in Rachel 's opinion rather too gay ; but she was totally unacquainted with the style of dress that might be fashionable in London , and therefore passed this circumstance the more easily over . 
Finding it impossible to separate herself from her new acquaintances , she contented herself with giving the hackney-coachman particular instructions where to carry her , and in less than half an hour found herself at Mrs. Webster 's , in Dartmouth-street , Westminster . 
Rachel begged an early cup of tea , and then retired to the apartment prepared for her ; where wearied nature was refreshed by several hours of profound sleep . 
But the fatigue which had accelerated her repose , gradually giving way to its effects , her slumbers became lighter , and about three o'clock , she became sensible of the -LRB- to her -RRB- unusual noises that surrounded her . 
However , as Rachel was not troubled with weak nerves , and had in general great presence of mind , she presently grew collected , remembered she was in London , returned to her bed , and endeavoured to obtain another visit from the leadenwinged god . 
He listened , and was propitious to her entreaties , and at eight o'clock the following morning she continued still locked in his embraces . 
Thescene of life into which Rachel had now entered was every way new to her . 
Her intentions in avoiding the family of Dr. Lenient on account of young Auberry were laudable ; but her open and ingenuous nature , fearless of guile , because intending none , was not competent to the task she had undertaken . 
Humane , generous , and credulous in the extreme , she felt that every human being had a claim upon her affection ; and willingly allowing that claim to others , she readily believed every profession of friendship made to herself . 
From such a woman , Rachel had nothing either to hope or apprehend . 
She enjoyed from the effects of her care a very neat apartment , and regular decent meals ; but as to any idea of a companion , it was entirely out of the question . 
The daughters were young , and their minds totally uninformed ; they were of consequence unfit society for her . 
To whom therefore could she look to enliven her solitude by cheerful conversation ? 
She became the constant companion of Rachel , and was unfortunately the most improper companion she could have chosen . 
The day after Rachel 's arrival in London was devoted to rest . 
Rachel was not devoid of curiosity . 
She had come up to the metropolis with the best resolutions in the world , and Mrs. Auberry , when she recommended her to Mrs. Webster 's to board , thought she had rendered her young friend a very acceptable piece of service . 
The second morning , Rachel took a hackney-coach , and drove to the house of Mr. Oliver , in the vicinity of St. James 's . 
She was still in mourning ; a grey tabby night-gown , with black cuffs and robins , a plain lawn cap , apron , handkerchief , and ruffles , was the dress in which she prepared to visit her friend Jessy . 
said she to the footman who came to the door . 
A surly No!was all the answer she received , and the man was again shutting the door . 
said she , putting her hand out to prevent it from closing . 
Rachel had descended from the carriage before the coachman had knocked for admittance , and was standing on the upper step of a flight of stone stairs which led up on each side from the street . 
Her figure had attracted the eyes of Archibald , who was at home at this time , and seated in a front parlour window , killing time with a political pamphlet . 
Hearing her voice at the door , and understanding from the tone of the servant 's voice that he was not answering in a very civil manner , he opened the parlour door just as she was turning to descend the steps . 
`` My name is Dudley , '' said Rachel . 
He said this as he handed her to the coach . 
Then calling for his hat , before Rachel could collect herself sufficiently to refuse or accept his proposal , he was seated in the carriage beside her , and inquired where he should order it to be driven . 
`` Pray make no apologies , Mr. Oliver , '' said Rachel , having a little recovered from the flutter into which his apparently odd conduct had thrown her ; `` apologies are quite needless . 
`` I have not received the least intelligence from him since he left England ; and sometimes I fear -- '' Rachel 's eyes filled ; her bosom heaved . 
`` Oh do not fear , '' said Oliver , respectfully taking her hand : `` Letters may miscarry ; you will no doubt hear soon . 
He then proceeded to inform her , that his sister had unfortunately -LRB- as it proved -RRB- been singled out by a nobleman of elevated rank and splendid fortune , as the person with whom he wished to share those advantages . 
`` She is right to persevere in rejecting him , '' said Rachel , `` if she does not feel her heart sufficiently attached to him to incline her to share his pains and pleasures through life . 
Oliver gazed at her , as she thus , with unaffected freedom , delivered her sentiments on a subject , which the generality of those young women with whom he was acquainted would have blushed only to have heard mentioned . 
But Rachel was entirely free from affectation of every kind ; she had no idea , but that a woman might speak on the subjects of love and marriage , without simpering , blushing , and fifty other little foolish prettinesses . 
When the coach therefore stopped , and Rachel asked him to walk in , he eagerly availed himself of the invitation ; and after sitting with her till she was summoned to dinner , left her , impressed with so high an opinion of her understanding , that he thought her the most superior woman he had ever known . 
She had promised to entrust him with a letter to her friend Jessy , and he was determined to call for it himself , that he might enjoy another half hour of her society . 
But in this he was disappointed ; for immediately after dinner , Rachel wrote her letter , and leaving it with Mrs. Webster in case it should be sent for before her return , she took one of the little girls with her , and walked to the house of Mr. Andrew Atkins , in Lincoln 's - Inn , hoping to hear some tidings of Reuben , and also to inquire how long it would be before she might expect to receive any money on account of the estate in Lancashire . 
Rachel rose from her seat . 
`` Servant , Miss , '' said Mr. Atkins , slightly bowing , and without asking her to resume her seat . 
cried Rachel in breathless agitation . 
cried Rachel , waving her hand with dignity , `` I must not hear the memory of my father treated with disrespect . 
Here her cheeks assumed a pallid hue , her lips trembled , and she was unable to proceed ; and though the unfeeling Atkins had kept her standing while he spoke to her , her agitation was now so great , that she was obliged to sit down , or she would have fallen . 
Rachel felt that this seeming integrity was an insult to her understanding . 
Assuming , therefore , an appearance of fortitude that she was far from feeling , she exerted herself to rise from her seat . 
`` Good Mr. Allibi , '' said she , conveying as much acrimony into her looks and manner , as it was possible for her voice and features to express , `` of what service will it be for me to examine or investigate those accounts ? 
`` I speak as I feel , '' replied Rachel . 
`` Pardon me , '' cried Rachel , `` I do not think I am warm enough . 
As she finished speaking , she hurried out of the house , to prevent their being witness to emotions which she was unable longer to suppress ; and she found herself in the square opposite Newcastle house , before she was sufficiently collected to remember to what part of the town she was going . 
A heavy shower appeared threatening in the air , and even at Holborn-Bars , Rachel could not procure a coach . 
Rachel looked round with increasing apprehension . 
To avoid the fury of the storm , Rachel ran up an entry which led to a large old-fashioned mansion , and though not easily terrified , the late incidents had so oppressed her spirits , that she sat down on the steps , and burst into an hysterical flood of tears . 
She rose , endeavoured to speak , but could not ; and when she attempted to walk , her limbs failed her , and she sunk again upon the step . 
Rachel , though overcome with terror , was perfectly sensible . 
She heard the remark made on her apparent helplessness , endeavoured to repel the violence of her emotions , and exert that fortitude of which she was possessed . 
`` I merely came here for shelter from the storm , '' said she ; `` and if I could procure a coach -- '' `` Well , mistress , '' said a dirty , ragged boy , `` if you will give me a shilling , I will call you one . '' 
Rachel readily agreed to the proposal , and was putting her hand to her pocket , when there was a cry in the crowd that was now gathered , that a pick-pocket was amongst them . 
` Keep all in , keep all in , ' was the cry , and the throng rushed up the passage , so that Rachel found herself in an instant surrounded by a motley group of people , the chief part of which but to have been obliged to speak to , would have filled her at once with terror and disgust . 
But what were her sensations , when , putting her hand again to her pocket , she found a strange purse hanging partly out , and felt a watch actually within it . 
Before she could speak , a woman seized her arm , and holding her hand so that she could not withdraw it , she cried that she had found the thief , Rachel 's strength and spirits now at once forsook her ; she fetched a deep sigh , and fell senseless into the arms of the person who had been robbed . 
Then carrying her to the entrance of the passage , he pushed back her hat , and untied her cloak . 
Her extreme youth , her beauty , the neatness of her apparel , all conspired to prepossess him in her favour . 
said the wretch who had pretended to detect her . 
seeing Rachel begin to revive . 
She looked wildly round her , put her hand to her head as though endeavouring to recollect why or how she came there . 
At length the circumstances recurring to her memory , she looked stedfastly on the officer , and then on her accuser . 
`` You have been robbed , Sir , '' said she , `` and your property found in my possession . 
The solemnity of the appeal , the conscious innocence of her heart , which beamed from her eyes and informed every feature of her face , rendered the truth of her assertion indisputable . 
The storm was by this time much abated , and Rachel having sent again to procure a coach , the officer said he would not leave her till he delivered her in safety to her friends . 
The glass was let down , and Rachel saw distinctly Hamden Auberry , seated beside an elderly lady . 
She also was certain , that he both saw and recognized her . 
The blood for a moment forsook her cheeks , and then returned with impetuosity , dying them of the deepest crimson . 
Scarcely was there time to exchange the glance of recognition , before the chariot moved forward again , and a hackney-coach drawing up to the door , she stepped into it , and , accompanied by her protector , drove towards Dartmouth-street . 
On their arrival at Mrs. Websters , Rachel found the family in great consternation at her long absence -LRB- for Polly having returned without her , had been dispatched again by her mother , who seared Rachel might lose her way ; and learning that she had been gone some time from Atkins 's , had returned as quick as she could , in the hope of finding her safe at home -RRB- . 
But Rachel would explain the whole ; her new friend , Miss La Varone , sympathized with her , trembled with terror , glowed with indignation , or melted with gratitude , as the recital proceeded ; and in the end , said so many obliging things to Lieutenant Courtney , that he began to think her more than agreeable ; and overlooking the charms of our heroine , which had nothing but nature and simplicity to recommend them , he was powerfully attracted by the artful lures thrown out by La Varone . 
The situation of Rachel , in regard to reputation , was now as dangerous as it was possible ; for Courtney claimed the privilege of visiting her ; and Archibald Oliver , when he returned from the country , and his sister , called to deliver the answer to the letter he had taken , and one visit led to another , till scarcely a day elapsed without his passing some hours in her company . 
Rachel 's intentions , when she first came to London , were to apprentice herself to some person who could instruct her in some laudable employment , whereby she might render herself independent . 
For in her opinion , the person who by the exertion of any talent , or the exercise of industry , could support themselves , was in every sense of the word as independent as they who inherited wealth or titles from their ancestors . 
But these praiseworthy resolutions were from time to time put off , and her attention diverted to other objects , till she began to perceive the small sum of money she brought with her to London was very visibly diminished , and yet no plan put in execution , by which it could be replenished . 
` I must do something to-morrow , ' said Rachel every night as she laid her head on her pillow . 
WhenHamden Auberry first saw Rachel at the entrance of the passage in Holborn , he hardly could trust his senses ; but on letting down the glass and looking intently , he perceived it was no illusion , but in reality the woman whom he had thought the most faultless , the most perfect of her sex . 
If he at first had imagined Rachel had voluntarily deviated from the path of rectitude , a moment 's serious reflection made him reject the idea ; and he began to be apprehensive that her innocence and inexperience might have betrayed her into society and places , not altogether proper for a woman of character . 
Or should she be surrounded with danger , how could he discover her ? 
how advise , or , if necessity required , protect her ? 
Had he known where to find her , he would have ventured even to entreat his aunt to take her under her protection ; but he had not the least clue by which to trace her place of residence . 
Rachel herself was far from being easy when she thought of the incident , on the first night after seeing . 
Hamden ; -LRB- for she seldom was allowed a moment for thought , except in the hours devoted to rest -RRB- she felt a pleasure in reflecting he was in town . 
`` I can see him now , '' said she , `` without incurring the illiberal reproofs of Tabitha . '' 
The heart of Rachel harboured not a wish or thought but what might have been made public to the whole world ; and while she was conscious of its rectitude , she felt proudly superior to the little prejudices of vulgar minds . 
She could not understand why she might not converse with or entertain a friendship for persons of an opposite sex , as well as with those of her own . 
She therefore indulged the hope , that Hamden would visit her during his stay in London ; but when day after day passed on , and he did not appear , she again thought pride had prompted the neglect , and calling all her own self-consequence to her aid , she endeavoured to think as little of him as he apparently thought of her . 
During this interval of time , Rachel was frequently visited by Archibald Oliver . 
He had at first beheld her with admiration , listened to her with delight , and every ensuing interview had heightened those sensations to a degree which almost might be termed adoration . 
Deliver the inclosed to the friend of my soul , Rachel Dudley ; if she contemn me , I will return a voluntary sacrifice . 
For so pure is her mind , so unprejudiced her opinions , soaring so far above the common herd , that I would abide by her decision even in a cause of life and death . 
Rachel wiped off the tear this letter had extorted , and proceeded to peruse the one addressed to herself . 
WILL my dear friend pardon me that I intrude myself upon her , and by explaining my sorrows , make her a party in my concerns ? 
I have suffered much persecution , dear Rachel , since we parted ; and to avoid rushing at once into guilt and misery , I have taken a step for which the world will censure me . 
I fly from proffered wealth and grandeur , to obscurity ; even from you , my dear Rachel , I will seclude myself . 
And now , my dearest Rachel , adieu ! 
If so , may Heaven shower its choicest blessings on you , and inspire mewith patience and fortitude to submit , without repining , to an affliction which would lacerate the heart of When Rachel had finished this letter , she imparted to Archibald as much of the contents as she thought necessary ; but to all his entreaties of being permitted to peruse it she continued inexorable . 
She admired the resolution of Jessy , and had so good an opinion of her heart and understanding , that she felt confident of her strict adherence to truth and rectitude . 
In all their past hours of friendly confidence , Miss Oliver had never suffered a syllable to escape her lips by which Rachel could guess at her partiality to Reuben ; and at the time when they were most together , our heroine was too inexperienced to discover the passion of her friend by looks and gestures . 
Soon after this circumstance , young Oliver , weary of home , dissatisfied with himself , and more than ever in love with Rachel , felt there was a necessity for tearing himself from her society . 
Its romantic situation pleased him ; the society of several agreeable families in its vicinity delighted him ; and if we add that a lovely and interesting woman , whose fortune was large and independent , beheld him with affection , and suffered that affection to become manifest , it is to be hoped the fair reader will not blame him , if he lengthened his stay at Alnwick , and every day thought less and less of Rachel . 
The Lieutenant had , to be sure , solicited her company ; but the bride did not , even by a single monosyllable , second those solicitations ; so Rachel saw them depart , fervently wished them hourly increase of felicity , and then sat down to reflect on her own situation in London , without friends , without employment , and with only eight guineas in her pocket . 
As she ruminated on the past , felt no satisfaction in the present , and looked with fear and despondency toward the future , she heard a confusion in the adjoining apartment , and the voice of Polly Webster , who was her favourite , entreating a woman to have patience , who by her expressions and manner seemed a total stranger to that virtue . 
Rachel had but eight guineas ; but she could pay this demand and have three left . 
She stayed not to inquire what was prudent ; she felt what would be humane . 
She followed the heavenly precept of `` doing as she would be done by ; '' she paid the money . 
The heart of Mrs. Webster dilated with gratitude ; and the pain Rachel had endured from the departure and coldness of Mrs. Courtney , was forgot in the transport of the present moment ; so true is it , that real happiness must be the result of the knowledge and practice of virtue . 
The second day after their departure , he came , and requested the Miss Websters and Rachel would accompany him to the play . 
Rachel , whose sensibility often usurped dominion over her rational faculties , banishing the milder reign of reason , was , during the tragedy , so entirely absorbed by the sufferings of the hero and heroine , that the splendid circle that surrounded her in the boxes was totally unnoticed . 
Rachel discovered that her seat was uncomfortable . 
Hamden , as he conversed , twisted a curl of her luxuriant auburn tresses round his fingers . 
`` I declare I am out of patience , '' cried Rachel . 
`` At the players , '' said she ; `` they are so tedious . '' 
`` I can not endure it any longer , '' cried Rachel , `` the pit is so crowded , and it is so hot . '' 
Rachel was not easily overcome ; but her heart was more attached to Hamden Auberry than she was aware of . 
`` It is so oppressive , '' repeated she , unwilling to acknowledge even to herself the cause of her uneasy sensations . 
`` I must really quit the house , '' said she , gasping for breath . 
And then , before any effort could be made to get her through the crowd , a sudden mist came over her eyes , and she fainted . 
The young Websters were frightened , and Spriggins was entirely occupied in supporting her , so that no method was taken to recover her . 
But an elderly gentleman , who sat near them , observed if they could lift her up , so that she might be above the crowd , it would accelerate her return to life . 
Accordingly , he humanely stepped up on the seat , and raised her in his arms . 
A smelling bottle was now applied , and some lavender rubbed on her temples . 
The bustle this incident had occasioned in the pit , attracted the notice of the company in the boxes ; and as the old gentleman raised the declining head of Rachel that she might receive the more benefit from the air of several fans , Auberry saw and knew her . 
Though the impulse of the moment had urged Hamden Auberry , in direct opposition to every rule of politeness or even propriety , to quit his company and spring into the pit , when he beheld the lifeless form of Rachel , yet when he now saw her perfectly recovered , he remembered the necessity of immediately returning to them , and apologizing for the abruptness of his conduct . 
`` I am not indeed , '' said Rachel , `` situated exactly as I could wish ; but I know not how to better myself . '' 
said Rachel , glancing her eye upon the young lady in the box . 
said Rachel ; but she dared not raise her eyes to his face as she made the interrogation ; for she felt that her own was suffused with a blush . 
`` I am always at leisure to see my friends , '' replied Rachel , with a fascinating smile . 
Hamden 's countenance expressed his gratitude , and the pleasure her frankness gave him , and pressing her hand , he wished her a good night , returned to the box , and a few moments afterwards , the whole party in which he was engaged left the theatre . 
`` He is an old acquaintance , '' said Rachel , at once distressed and flattered by the manner in which his anxiety and assiduity was mentioned ; `` it was Major Auberry , madam , '' addressing herself to Mrs. Webster ; `` the son of our respected friend . '' 
`` But I dare affirm Major Auberry is not one of those kind of people , '' said Rachel ; `` he intends calling on me to-morrow , and I have no doubt but he will rejoice in being introduced to Mrs. Webster and her family . '' 
Rachel found that it would be in vain to attempt defending Hamden against the complaints and prejudices of Spriggins , whose contracted mind and very small portion of understanding , would not suffer him to comprehend those nice distinctions which , allowing for the natural equality of man , still preserves that respect , that necessary subordination , due from inferiors to persons of shining abilities , liberal education , and superior understanding ; and the ignorant , self-opinionated being who prates of equality , never once conceives the cause of the distinction , which education -LRB- more than any other cause -RRB- makes between man and man . 
But Rachel knew these arguments , if advanced , would have no effect on Spriggins ; she therefore listened in silence to the end of his harangue , then wishing them all a good night , retired to her apartment . 
`` I acknowledge it , '' replied Rachel , `` but I must bear it with patience ; there is no remedy . '' 
`` Is it possible Miss Dudley can imagine -- '' He was proceeding , but she stopped him . 
She said this without embarrassment , and with a cheerful smile . 
She felt no degradation in the idea of exerting her talents to procure support . 
Do I love Rachel Dudley ? 
Does she return my passion ? 
If I might judge from the intelligence of her eyes -- But hope may be presumption . 
Would I marry her ? 
Yes , with delight and transport , if she would accept me . 
Would I be willing to relinquish all hope of future affluence , honour , title , and devote my life to obscurity and Rachel Dudley ? 
I should repine at the advantages I had relinquished , and embitter her life by my own fruitless regret . 
Then is it honourable , by indirect attentions , to lead her to suppose she has an exclusive preference in my bosom , or to awaken expectations , which will end only in disappointment ? 
After thus closely interrogating his own heart , Hamden determined to avoid visiting Rachel again ; but on the morning following , he received a letter from his mother ; it would be but kind to call and let Miss Dudley know her friend Dr. Lenient was well , and that Tabitha Holdfast had taken to herself a help-mate of one of the faithful . 
Hamden talked of love , and Rachel listened with complacency . 
It was on a fine evening in the beginning of September , as wandering on the banks of the Thames , where a row of young willows drooped their pendent branches over the softly gliding stream , that Hamden -LRB- on whose arm Rachel reclined with the confidence of fraternal affection -RRB- spoke of the happy intercourse of congenial minds . 
`` Dear , charming Rachel ! '' 
`` Our sentiments are certainly much alike in most things , '' said Rachel . 
`` You have an aunt , Hamden Auberry , '' said Rachel with firmness , `` and on her depends your future fortune . 
She will not approve of the untitled , unportioned Rachel for your wife . '' 
`` Do not name her . 
I will renounce her favour . 
`` Hamden , '' said Rachel , and her features assumed a serene solemnity that was almost celestial , `` Hamden , I have not expressed the feelings of my soul , because I was sensible of the impossibility of our ever being united with the consent of your aunt ; and know , though you were dearer to me than life itself , I will never intrude myself into a family , who would think themselves degraded by the alliance . 
That I am an unconnected being , is certain ; no one has a right to say , Rachel , why dost thou so ? 
`` To happiness , I hope , '' said Rachel smiling . 
`` That I feel my heart glow with esteem to you , '' continued she , `` is a truth I wish not to deny ; but that esteem is pure ; nor personal interest , nor hope of future aggrandizement , will ever bias me . 
They were married in St. John 's Church , Westminster ; and Rachel removed to a lodging provided for her by her husband in the neighbourhood of Mary-lebone . 
When Rachel proposed removing from Mrs. Webster 's , she found no small difficulty in satisfying her inquiries respectting the cause of her removal . 
She had imprudently acquainted Mrs. Webster with the diminished state of her finances ; when therefore on the morning of her marriage , which took place a little after eight o'clock ; for Rachel , though she had now been some months in London , continued the healthgiving custom of early rising , and frequcntly walked before breakfast , so that it was nothing extraordinary for her to be abroad so early ; when , in consequence of this union , she prepared to quit her lodging , and gave Mrs. Webster a bank bill for forty pounds , requesting her to get it changed , the old lady looked at her with a scrutinizing eye ; and though not apt to make remarks , could not avoid speaking to our heroine in the following words : `` It is no business of mine , to be sure , Miss Dudley ; but I am afraid you are going to do a very imprudent thing . 
said Rachel indignantly , `` have I transgressed the laws of prudence ? '' 
Rachel could not help smiling as she replied -- `` Mr. Oliver , I believe , madam , never thought of me in any other light than as a friend . 
`` Well , you find he was not at a loss , '' answered Rachel rather petulantly . 
`` I thank you , madam , for your care and anxiety on my account , '' said Rachel , who perceived , in Mrs. Webster 's manner , more of curiosity than real solicitude for her welfare , `` but to quiet your apprehensions , permit me to assure you , I shall be careful never to offend against virtue and morality . 
Thus argued Rachel ; but her ideas were erroneous , and she found , when too late , it is not only necessary to be virtuous , but to appear so . 
Rachel slightly answered in the affirmative , shook hands with her and Belle , kissed the affectionate little Polly -LRB- who stood sobbing by the window -RRB- and put a guinea into her hand ; then ordering her trunk to be placed in a hackney-coach that waited at the door , she stepped in , drew up the glass , and a few moments conveyed her to her new lodgings , where her husband was ready to receive her . 
Accustomed from infancy to confine her affections within a narrow circle , she would have felt no repugnance to seclude herself from all other society , could she have been certain by so doing to insure his eternal love and sidelity . 
She had asked leave of Hamden to inform Jessy Oliver , with whom she regularly corresponded , of the change in her circumstances ; but he sorbade her . 
She acquiesced in silence . 
It had never entered her mind , that an unknown indrividual like herself , could excite the curiosity of her neighbours . 
She was the least inquisitive of any human being . 
`` Of what consequence , '' she would often say , `` is the business , pleasures or pursuits of others to me . 
I forgot I was writing the history of Reuben and Rachel , and was giving you the history of my own seelings . 
So squire Dudley was in the next room , and he heard the bustle in the kitchen , and came out to axe what was the matter ; so when I told him , he threw me the money she owed me ; but he called me a very bad name . 
Then he got two men to carry the sick body to his own lodging in an arm chair , an there he had her tended and doctored ; but that did no good , for she died . 
I do assert , Jacob Holmes , and you , friend Simcox , bear witness to the assertion , that this estate , this house , this land , the stock and all appertaining to it , is the joint property of myself and sister Rachel , inherited from our father , Reuben Dudley ; nor will I relinquish the claim whilst I have existence . '' 
Rachel and Jessy were the objects of his dreams . 
Ithas been already remarked , that Rachel had as little curiosity in her composition as any woman existing : she was also by nature of a retired , quiet turn of mind , though easily led into scenes of dissipation , in which , as she generally mixed to gratify others , she took but little satisfaction . 
She therefore spent the chief of her time at home , either employed at her needle , or reading . 
Hamden was fond of music ; he had procured her a spinnet and a master . 
She had a considerable taste for drawing ; Hamden was a proficient in the art ; he directed and improved her judgment ; pointed out proper subjects for the exercise of her genius , and with her book , her pencil , her necdle , music , and some few domestic concerns , she so sweetly diversified her time , that not one moment hung heavy on her hands . 
Indeed , Rachel had , from her childhood , been taught that most useful , and to those who practise it , that most pleasant of all lessons , constant employment ; that it is better to be engaged in trifling pursuits -LRB- if innocent -RRB- than suffer the mind to sink into inanity for want of exercise . 
He then left her to return to his aunt , who was still in Scotland ; and at the time he bade his dear Rachel adieu , he purposed returning to her within the space of two months . 
After the departure of her husband , our heroine continued the same regular course of life . 
But calumny , who has a hundred ears , a thousand eyes , and ten thousand tongues , not one of which is ever suffered to slumber for an instant , could not permit her to enjoy her favourite and inoffensive employment unmolested . 
Though Rachel had imagined that the uniform tenor of her conduct was such , as might defy even the prying eyes of malice and envy , yet she felt there was something wrong in her appearance . 
She went by an assumed name ; yet , confident that she was in reality the wife of Aubevry she also felt that though she had transgressed the bounds of prudence , she had strictly adhered to the rules of virtue and morality ; and this internal assurance gave her great comfort . 
And when retiring for the night , she would reflect that her heart was in universal charity with all her fellow-creatures , that her pursuits were altogether harmless , and in some degree laudable ; a sweet serenity would diffuse itself through her bosom , and offering up her prayers for the safety of her beloved Reuben , and her almost adored husband , she would sink into a slumber , as composed and refreshing as her own mind was pure and uncontaminated . 
Such was the heart of Rechel ; without enthusiasm pious , without oftentation charitable , and innatcly virtuous , without an idea that there was any particular merit in being so ; since , without being insensible to the inevitable misery that must and ever will follow the forfeiture of that inestimable jewel , chastity , she wondered how so many heedless women fell into an error so repugnant to her own feelings . 
When Rachel was first introduced to her , she observed her lovely , majestic form , and sweetly intersting countenance . 
`` She is certainly handsome -LRB- said she , on the day Rachel took possession of her new lodgings -RRB- she is handsome , I must own ; but your pretty women have seldom much to recommend them besides their beauty . '' 
Rachel had received a good , though not a brilliant education ; her mind was therefore free from prejudice . 
She thought the infatuation -LRB- as she called it -RRB- of Hamden would not last long , and wisely imagined , by paying the most marked attention to him , by giving up her own opinion whenever it was in opposition to his , and in a hundred different forms , which she conceived to be the height of complaisance , but which to Auberry himself appeared to have partook more of abject servility , to supplant her in his good opinion ; however , as he imagined her , in the main , a good-natured , inossensive woman , he encouraged her advances to an intimacy with Rachel . 
He knew the purity of our heroine 's mind , and native good sense would prevent her receiving any ill impressions , or contracting any low ideas from conversing with a woman every way so infinitely her inferior , and at the same time thought her knowledge of the world might guard the inexperienced Rachel from impositions . 
Rachel was not greedy of flattery ; but where is the human being that can at all times turn a deaf ear to its adulating voice , or steel their hearts to its insinuating qualities ? 
Rachel 's heart sunk within her , and as the chaise drove from the door , her emotions became so violent , that Mrs. Varnice was obliged to lead her into her own parlour , and give her a glass of drops and water . 
`` Come , come , my dear Madam , '' said she , as Rachel endeavoured to suppress her tears , `` you must not give way to this immoderate sorrow ; Mr. Dacres , I dare say , will soon come back again ; I suppose he is not gone very far . '' 
`` Four hundred miles , '' said Rachel , `` appears to me an immense distance ; and I know not how to account for it , but I feel such an oppression at my heart , it seems as though I had beheld him for the last time , and yet I know he will return as early as possible . '' 
I have been very troublesome to you , Madam , '' continued she , rising to quit the parlour ; `` pray pardon my childish behaviour ; I will retire and endeavour to attain fortitude to bear this first -LRB- and I hope in Heaven it will be the last -RRB- separation . '' 
Her eyes filled again as she spoke , and courtesying hastily , she repaired to her own apartment ; and having disburthened her heart by giving a free course to her tears , she composed her spirits ; and asserting that understanding which was ever ready at her call , she began to employ herself on a piece of embroidery , the pattern for which was drawn by Hamden ; from that she went to her spinnet , and played as well as she could a trifling air which he had taught her . 
These employments amused and soothed her . 
She became composed , and determined , during this enforced and painful absence , to occupy herself in acquiring those accomplishments which she knew would be most agreeable to her husband . 
Every trace of the primitive puritan was now entirely abolished , except that she was extremely neat in her dress , and simple in her manners . 
She followed fashion as far as she thought it consistent with propriety , but no farther ; and though strangers would pronounce her perfectly elegant at the first glance , were they to scrutinize the several articles that composed her apparel , they would be at a loss to say what particularly constituted that elegance . 
In short , Rachel was the kind of woman who gives taste and fashion to every thing she wears , however plain its formation , however common the materials of which it is made . 
The state of her mind , after the departure of her husband was such , as precluded every idea of seeking society during the day . 
She attempted , but the attempt was vain , to partake of a meal which the care of Lettuce had provided -LRB- for Lettuce had performed the office of attendant on the person of our heroine from the first day of her residence in the house of Mrs. Varnice -RRB- ; but towards evening she began to reflect , that the solicitude and attention of her hostess demanded some return ; she therefore requested she would come and take tea in her apartment . 
Rachel acknowledged her goodness , and acquiesced in the proposal . 
`` I suppose Mr. Dacres , '' said she with a sigh , `` is now many miles distant from me ; and suppose he writes at the first post town , when may I expect to hear from him ? '' 
He is a beautiful man , '' taking a miniature in her hand that hung by a ribbon round Rachel 's neck , `` a very handsome man indeed ; and I think there is something in your countenances very much alike , very much indeed , just about the eyes and the mouth ; that pretty dimple , just at the left corner . 
Rachel could not suppress an inclination to smile , whilst she answered , `` No , Madam , amongst the European settlers , who have , within the last century , emigrated into the new world , which I understand is a fertile continent extending from north to south , and constituting one entire quarter of the habitable globe . '' 
`` There may have been such things , '' said Rachel ; `` but for the honour of human nature , I could wish not to believe them possible till my senses convince me . '' 
This exclamation awakened something in the bosom of Rachel , that could not rightly be termed either jealousy or curiosity , but it was a mixture of both ; and the artful Varnice led her on , till she had gleaned from Rachel -LRB- only that names were concealed -RRB- every circumstance relating to herself , her brother and her husband . 
After a day or two past in that kind of uncomfortable , unconnected manner , which every person of sensibility must have experienced when separated from the chosen friend of their hearts , Rachel began again to resume her usual avocations . 
Her needle employed the earliest hours of morning , after which she dressed , and walked into the fields for air and exercise . 
Her dinner past , she employed the intermediate hours between that and evening with a book , her pencil , or a lesson on her spinnet ; and the evenings were usually passed in reading to , conversing and working , or playing picquet with , Mrs. Varnice . 
Happy had it been , both for himself and our heroine , had he followed the impulse ; but he took time to consider , and that false pride , which was his only foible , represented to him , that he was secure of the person and heart of Rachel , bound to her by the most irrevocable vows ; he hazarded nothing , therefore , by longer concealment . 
She by flow and almost imperceptible degrees endeavoured to undermine the principles of our heroine ; but Rachel , though not quick at discerning evil -LRB- because almost a stranger to its baneful qualities -RRB- at last discovered her aim , and repulsed her with the scorn she merited . 
In revenge for the contempt with which she had been treated , Mrs. Varnice suppressed the next letter with which Lettuce was entrusted to carry to the post , opened , read it , and committed it to the fire . 
By the tenor of this letter , she comprehended that Rachel fully believed herself the wife of Auberry ; but this she knew before , and inwardly laughed at what she supposed to be the credulity of a fond , unsuspecting girl . 
Having once began to interrupt the correspondence , she did not hesitate the next post-night to make Lettuce keep watch at the street door , and prevent the rap of the post-man , which would have immediately called our heroine down stairs . 
Another and another letter from Hamden was opened by Mrs. Varnice , whilst those from Rachel -LRB- whose heart now began to throb with fear , doubt , and a thousand anxieties , which none but those who are united to , and suffering an early separation from , the man of their choice can conceive -RRB- suffered the same fate . 
This note would have been very acceptable to Rachel ; for she began to be sensible of the decrease of her finances , and to experience the solicitude and pleasing cares of maternal tenderness ; and to prepare for the reception of a little stranger , she had nearly exhausted the whole of the money Hamden had given her at parting . 
Though this man may justly be termed confidential , yet so fearful had Hamden been of having his marriage known , that even he was not entrusted with the secret , and Rachel was humiliated even in the eyes of her husband 's servant . 
But her manners were such as had ever secured respect from James , and the honest fellow , often when he thought of her situation , pitied her , and blamed his master . 
`` I have been deceived , '' she would say , whilst tears of anguish stole down her cheeks ; `` Hamden no longer loves , no longer thinks of me , and , forsaken of him , who is there in this vast universe , -LRB- for Heaven alone can tell whether my dear brother is in existence -RRB- who then is there that cares for the unhappy Rachel ? 
Rachel 's days were joyless , and the tear of anguish fell nightly on her pillow . 
Mrs. Varnice had exposed to her , her true character , and Rachel would not hold communication with a woman she despised . 
She nursed her grief in solitude . 
If she endeavoured to amuse the heavy hour , by her pencil or music , every flower she drew was moistened by her tears , and the chords of the instrument reverberated but the strains of melancholy . 
It was a fine morning in the beginning of March , that , still considering it a duty to use every method to preserve health , -LRB- though life was no longer valuable -RRB- Rachel walked to the green park . 
It was an early hour ; she did not fear being met by any one who knew her ; there were but few by whom she would be recognized , and those few seldom visited the park except on a Sunday evening , to see and be seen . 
As with slow step she paced along the margin of Rosamond 's Pond , she was startled by a voice which suddenly exclaimed , `` Heavens and earth ! 
She raised her eyes , and beheld Archibald Oliver . 
A sudden emotion , something like shame , rushed upon her heart ; she just articulated his name , extended her hand towards him , and , tottering to a seat that was near , she sunk on it almost fainting . 
`` My name is Dacres , Sir , '' said Rachel ; but her voice faltered , and the carnation visited her cheeks as she remembered her very apparent situation . 
The sormer intimacy that had subsisted between Oliver and our heroine could alone have excused these abrupt interrogations ; but Rachel had ever considered him as a brother , and new ties , new affections , had made him behold her now only in the endearing light of a sister . 
`` My husband is in Scotland , '' said Rachel , `` whither he was called by business of consequence ; but come -LRB- continued she , forcing a smile -RRB- if you are disengaged , walk home with me , and I will tell you all you wish to know , and in return be very inquisitive concerning your happiness . '' 
Then , with that innocent freedom that gave a charm to all her actions , she passed her hand through his arm , and they pursued their way to her lodgings , engaged in such interesting chat , that they had reached the door before either imagined they were half way . 
During their walk , Rachel told as much of her own story as could be done without infringing the vow she had voluntarily made to Auberry never to divulge his real name and family till authorized by him ; and in return , she learnt that Oliver had experienced a very tolerable share of happiness in his matrimonial connexions , that his wise was then in town , and had just made him a father . 
Of Jessy he could give her no information , and since our heroine 's marriage , that young lady had declined the correspondence of Rachel , alleging , as she no longer shared her considence , she would not intrude her letters where she must suppose them unwelcome . 
This had at the time given Rachel much pain ; but as Hamden would not allow her to explain her situation to her friend , she was forced to relinquish a correspondence so dear to her heart , and with it all intercourse with the only woman she had ever known whom she thought really deserved the name of friend . 
Rachel had not heard its adulating sound for several months previous to her meeting with Oliver . 
She dreamt not of impropriety , and , unconscious of evil , dreaded not censure . 
His visits were always welcome , and the day passed drearily in which she saw him not . 
On the evening when this explanation took place , Oliver had supped with Rachel , and the hoarse voice of the watchmen proclaiming half past eleven o'clock , was the first thing that reminded them it was time to break off their interesting conversation . 
Rachel rang the bell ; but no one answering , she took one of the candles from the table , and descended the stairs to light him out . 
`` Good night , Mr. Oliver , '' said Rachel ; and as he pulled the door after him , she turned the key , put the chain across , and turned to re-ascend the stairs , when , to her surprise , the parlour door opened , and Mrs. Varnice appeared . 
`` Bless me , '' said Rachel , `` I thought you were all in bed . '' 
Petrified with astonishment , Rachel could not answer for the space of a minute ; at length , resentment conquering her sensibility , she replied : `` Had I supposed you entertained such humiliating ideas of me , Madam , I would not so long have remained an inmate in your habitation ; but , painful as it is to me , I shall be necessitated to stay some little time longer till I can discharge my account with you . 
Rachel would have said good-night , but the words stuck in her throat ; she slightly inclined her head , and passing hastily up stairs , sunk almost sainting on the nearest seat . 
`` I will not stay in the house , '' said Rachel , `` but how to raise money to pay her . '' 
Those bracelets now -- '' Rachel looked on them and sighed . 
`` I can not part with them , '' said she , `` they were the first present I received from my husband . '' 
Hamden , agonized almost to distraction by his long absence , the cause of which he was not acquainted with , -LRB- as a sever and delirium , which immediately succeeded the accident , provented James from taking any method to let his master know his situation -RRB- was obliged to embark with his aunt , without receiving the least intelligence of the sate of Rachel . 
` She has forgotten me , she repeants her union with me , ' he would say , ` and seeks for an opportunity to break those engagements which I have hesitated to announce to the world . ' 
In these moments he would be ready to reveal all to his aunt ; but the fear that Rachel no longer loved him , or perhaps was no longer worthy of his affection for her , always withheld him ; and the voyage to Lisbon , though in itself extremely pleasant , seemed to the unhappy Hamden to teem only with vexation , and when landed , and the first bustle of seeking a lodging , & c. was over , he walked through the streets like a discontented shade ; indeed , it was but the shadow of Hamden Auberry , for his better part was flown to the shores of Albion , where it hovered round the mansion in which he imagined still dwelt the object of his dearest affection . 
But Mrs. Auberry had received a letter from Mrs. Webster , which had prejudiced her against Rachel ; she therefore did not mention to her brother that she had heard from her , and threw the letter into a draw , without deigning to give our distressed heroine the comfort of one line in answer . 
This was a riddle she had not power to unravel ; but whatever was the cause , she rejoiced at the effect , and , forgetting the coldness she had experienced from La Varone immediately after her marriage with Lieutenant Courtney , conscious only of a pleasurable sensation , to find a person with whom she had formerly lived in habits of intimacy so near her , she wrote with a pencil on a slip of paper , `` Dear Mrs. Courtney , your friend Rachel is again an inmate of the mansion you inhabit , and flatters herself you will give her the pleasure of your company for half an hour . '' 
said Rachel in the simplicity of her heart . 
With a look of mingled confusion and candour , in the simple language of truth did Rachel explain to Mrs. Courtney every circumstance of her marriage and consequent uneasiness , still concealing the real name of her husband . 
She laughed at the affliction Rachel appeared to experience from her husband 's neglect , called her agony of heart ideal misery , told her the honey moon could not last forever , bid her keep up her spirits , and , promifing to see her again in the evening , left her . 
Accordingly , in the evening she again visited her . 
`` I have been thinking , Mrs. Dacres , '' said she with a half smile , and looking sidelong from under her dark eyelashes , `` that change of scene and air would be of service to you . 
A tinge of carnation passed over the languid cheek of Rachel , as she said she should like such an excursion , but it was not in her power to take it . 
Rachel 's heart beat quick , as she attempted to reply . 
Rachel selt the impossibility of doing it , and remained silent . 
In short , her innocence , her credulity , her ardent wish to be near her husband prevailed , and she consented to accompany Mrs. Courtney into Northumberland . 
But , however liable to err from the frankness and candour of her temper , Rachel had still that pride of soul which could not condescend to tell Mrs. Courtney that three guineas , and a few clothes , constituted the whole of her worldly possessions . 
Mrs. Courtney was deceived when she invited Rachel to take , this journey with her ; but it was the depravity of her own heart had deceived her , and before the reached Northumberland , she discovered that the mind of our heroine was still uncontaminated , still pure , and shrunk from vice with disgust , turned from immorality with abhorrence . 
On their arrival at Mr. Spriggins 's , Mrs. Courtney was received with a profusion of compliments , whilst Rachel was scarcely noticed . 
She was shown to an upper apartment , and , weary as she was with the journey , suffered to undress the child herself , and put him to bed . 
She laid him on the pillow of repose , and , kneeling beside the bed , poured forth her afflicted soul to her Maker . 
Her cheek rested on the same pillow with that of her infant , and her tears flowed without restraint . 
She selt that the pretended friendship of Mrs. Courtney was only ostentation ; she feared she had more to susser than she should be able to support . 
After a few weeks residence in the family of Mrs. Spriggins , Rachel perceived that not even a shadow of respect and attention towards herself remained in the manners of the whole family . 
At meals , she was suffered to take the lowest seat at the table , where she was sometimes so totally overlooked , as not to be helped till every one else had begun their dinner ; and then she was insulted by an affectation of friendly familiarity , such as , `` Bless me , Mrs. Dacres , I had forgot you ; but why do n't you speak ? 
At these moments , Rachel 's heart would swell to her eyes , and in struggling to suppress her tears , the food she attempted to swallow seemed almost to choak her . 
Had Rachel been independent , she would without hesitation have complied with the request ; but Rachel was poor , and she felt the request an insult . 
`` I am not qualified to supply the place of your servant , Madam , '' said she haughtily . 
`` I hope I shall in time , '' said Rachel indignantly , `` if I do not , I shall profit but little by your endeavours . '' 
`` No , Mrs. Courtney , '' said Rachel , `` if I am obliged to eat the the bread of servitude , I will earn it of strangers , not of one who once thought herself honoured in being called the friend of Rachel Dudley . 
`` To be no longer troublesome to you , Madam , '' said Rachel . 
`` I thank you , Madam , '' continued she , `` for the shelter your roof has so long afforded me , '' turning to Mrs. Spriggins , who had sat a silent and insensible spectatress of the scene , `` but will no longer intrude ; but this very night remove to a habitation better suited to my present humble condition . '' 
She then hastily left the room . 
On the stairs she met Belle Webster . 
said she ; for the tears , which a laudable pride had restrained whilst she was in the presence of her insolent hostess and her companion , wounded sensibility forced in a torrent from her eyes the moment she had shut the door . 
`` I do not mind either her or her associate , '' said Rachel ; `` but I wish to release them from an unwelcome intruder , and shall leave the house immediately . 
`` Before another hour , '' said Rachel firmly . 
It was between four and five o'clock in the afternoon , when Rachel , taking her dear boy in her arms , and followed by the lad with her parcels , left the house of Mr. Spriggins , and went to seek a lodging in a town , to almost every inhabitant of which she was a perfect stranger . 
She knew that the public inns afforded lodgings to travellers , and to one of the most reputable of these she directed her steps . 
Her purse was but slenderly provided , but she augmented her little store by the sale of a gold locket , the last thing of value which she possessed , and from which she took a lock of plaited hair ; for it was the hair of Hamden Auberry , and to her a thousand times more precious than the metal in which it had been enshrined . 
On the following morning , she inquired after a private lodging , and was recommended by the woman who kept the inn , to a mean apartment in one of the most unfrequented streets in the town . 
To this humble asylum she retired , and felt a degree of melancholy pleasure that she could indulge her tears without restraint . 
But those visitors , who had seen Rachel in the family , and now missed her , felt an awakened curiosity to know what was become of her . 
During the period of these vicissitudes , Rachel had never omitted writing every week to her husband , only at the time when the birth of her son prevented her . 
These letters , written after she left the house of Mrs. Varnice , all lay at the place where he had desired them to be addressed ; and when James was sufficiently recovered to follow his master , he made them into a parcel , and took them with him . 
But when he read that he was a father , and that his once loved Rachel , in that season of sickness , was without the means to purchase the necessary accommodations and comforts to render the situation in some measure supportable , he determined to hazard every thing , own his marriage , and fly to her relief and comfort . 
Mortified pride , love and jealousy corroded in his bosom during his short voyage ; and on his arrival in London , he repaired immediately to the house of Mrs. Varnice ; for though Rachel had mentioned her removal , yet she had forgot to mention the name of the street to which she had removed ; and though she was displeased with Mrs. Varnice , yet , as she did not know the extent of that woman 's vileness , she spoke of her no farther than to say she had reason to think both Hamden and herself had been mistaken in her character . 
This was not sufficient to deter Hamden from going to her house , especially as he conceived it the only probable means of finding Rachel . 
`` Cruel , unkind Rachel ! '' 
do n't let it distress you so ; I suppose her young friend Oliver helped her off with some of the money . '' 
Rachel , Rachel , why have you used me thus ? 
From the house of Mrs. Varnice , Hamden went to the lodging she had last occupied , and there , from a conversation with the woman of the house , learnt the route Rachel had taken , and with whom ; but unfortunately , he also learnt that she had been visited almost daily by Oliver , during the period of his stay in London . 
Tortured almost to madness , he resolved to follow her , upbraid her with her perfidy and cruelty , oblige her to relinquish the care of the child to him , and take an everlasting leave of her . 
In the mean time , our heroine was drinking very deeply of the cup of affliction ; poverty was her constant companion . 
The trifle she possessed , at the time she left the house of Spriggins , was soon expended , and by degrees the remains of her wardrobe dwindled away , till two cotton gowns , with a change of linen , were the whole of her earthly possessions . 
She had inquired for work , but could get none . 
The circumstance of our heroine 's coming from London to Mr. Spriggins , and quitting the house so abruptly , had been talked over in almost every family in the place , told a hundred different ways , and each narrator adding or altering some circumstance , poor Rachel was looked upon , even by the woman of whom she rented her small apartment , as a suspicious character ; and had she been inclined to partake the pleasures of society , she would have found the doors of almost every class of people shut against her . 
It was one evening in August , when Rachel , having lulled her darling to sleep , the twilight still giving sufficient light , took her tablets from her pocket , and , as she leaned over a window she had just opened to gaze at the serenity of an evening , that seemed to give pleasure to the whole creation but her forlorn , unhappy self , wrote with her pencil the following lines : When she had finished , the full sense of her own deplorable situation rushed upon her mind ; she rested her head upon her hand , and , unable to weep , a kind of stupor pervaded all her senses ; and so entirely absorbed was she in her own agonizing reflections , that she was as perfectly lost to every surrounding object as if she had been no longer in existence . 
From this reverie she was aroused by the cry of her child , and in her haste to let down the window , she dropped her tablets . 
It was therefore impossible to regain them that night ; but she resolved to go early the ensuing morning to inquire for them ; for they had formerly belonged to her mother , and were on that account highly valued by Rachel . 
Accordingly , the next morning , as soon as she imagined she could gain admittance , she took her child in her arms , and walked round to the front of the house . 
The door was opened by a decent young woman , and Rachel was beginning to speak , when , turning her eyes toward a parlour , the door of which stood partly open , she saw Archibald Oliver , dressed in deep mourning , sitting at a breakfast table , and holding the identical tablets she came to inquire for , in his hand . 
She was surprised -- she was silent . 
said Rachel , hardly conscious that she had answered at all . 
Rachel was fluttered ; she could not speak . 
A languid smile illumined her pallid countenance as she extended her hand towards him . 
`` How is it , Mr. Oliver , '' said she , when she could command her voice , `` that I see you here ? '' 
Rachel glanced her eye over his fable dress . 
Jessy darted into her mind . 
said she eagerly . 
`` Is well , '' interrupted he , at once comprehending her fears , at least I have no reason to think to the contrary ; but Mrs. Oliver is no more . '' 
His voice faltered ; Rachel was silent ; she knew the folly and impertinence of common-place consolation . 
said Rachel . 
Rachel listened with astonishment to this detail , and was so entirely absorbed in reflection on the strange incidents Oliver related , that when the mistress of the house entered , and requested to know what her commands were , she had totally forgotten the circumstance that had brought her to the house . 
Now , though Rachel did not know five persons in the neighbourhood where she dwelt , even by sight , yet she was herself known by every individual in it ; and her embarrassed and hesitating manner , added to a knowledge of the evil reports which were circulated concerning her , led the woman where Oliver lodged , to imagine she came to visit him , or Courtney , as she seemed so perfectly acquainted with both . 
In the afternoon , Rachel determined to see Courtney . 
He rose from the cold , damp seat , and with a heavy heart was giving a last look at the house , when the door opened gently , and Rachel herself , with her child in her arms , came out . 
Though during the whole night Hamden had supposed his wife was there , yet something like hope had sometimes led him to think he might have been deceived , and she might still be innocent ; but this ocular proof was beyond all doubt . 
Rachel saw him ; but , wrapped in a coarse great coat which he had borrowed at the inn , with his hat flapped , it was impossible , by the faint glimmer of the twilight , she should know him ; she imagined it to be an inebriated person , just endeavouring to return home ; and fearful , should she be observed by him at that early hour , that he might in some respect or other be rude to her , she quickened her steps , and before Auberry was sufficiently recovered to speak or rise from the ground , she was out of sight , and in a few moments reached her own habitation . 
A little girl , who was up on some particular occasion , let her in , and she threw herself on the bed , in hopes to obtain some repose , while Auberry returned to the inn , penned a hasty letter to her , which he left , with orders that it should be sent by eight o'clock in the morning . 
In the mean time , Rachel had enjoyed about two hours sleep , and felt herself greatly refreshed ; for the fatigue and anxiety of the night had exhausted both her spirits and strength . 
She had attended as usual the day before at the bedside of Courtney ; towards noon he had arisen , and was removed for the benefit of the air into an adjoining apartment , and placed in an easy chair near the window . 
Was it possible for Rachel in such a situation to leave him ? 
She had not been treated with sufficient respect by the mistress of the house where she lodged , to make her think it necessary to send any message to her concerning her staying out , or her reasons for so doing . 
Towards morning , Courtney fell into a quiet sleep , and Oliver entreated Rachel to retire , and endeavour to take some repose . 
Acting from motives the most pure and even commendable , without a thought or wish in the smallest tittle derogatory to virtue , Rachel had no apprehension of incurring censure from any . 
How surprised was she then , on awaking in the morning , to read the following note , which was brought to her by the little girl who had let her in . 
Rachel was really so totally unconscious of evil , that she was at a loss to think what the woman meant by `` the adventure of last night ; '' but going to her to inquire , was so overwhelmed with abuse , that , weeping , trembling , almost fainting , she retreated from the house leaving every thing behind her to satisfy the rapacity of her inhuman landlady . 
As she was going out of the door , she met the porter with her husband 's letter . 
She took it , broke the seal , and read that he had been there , that he had seen her , that he believed her lost to virtue , and that he abandoned her forever . 
Overcome by sensations the most agonizing , she sat down on the steps of the door . 
The letter remained open in her hand ; her eyes were riveted to it , and only that she breathed , she might have been taken for a statue of fixed and mute despair . 
How long she would have remained in this situation is uncertain , or whether , sinking into insensibility , she would not have lost all consciousness of her misery , had not the woman with the diabolical malice of a fiend opened the door , and bade her begone from the step . 
Aroused from her lethargy of grief , she arose , folded her child to her bosom , and bowing her head in meek resignation , the sorrows of her heart found vent at her eyes , and she obeyed in silence . 
He snatched his hat , and rushed into the street ; but he was too late ; Rachel was no longer in sight , nor could he discover which way she had gone . 
From that time , a period of three weeks was a total blank to Rachel . 
A fever , accompanied by a delirium , brought her to the verge of the grave ; but the tenderness of her good old hostess and her daughter , co-operating with a naturally good constitution , and the attendance of a skilful man of medicine , at length triumphed over the disorder , and she returned to life and a renewed sense of her sorrows . 
The first thing she thought of was her expected letter . 
She dispatched the young cottager to Newark to inquire for it ; she returned empty handed ; there was no letter there . 
The five guineas Rachel had borrowed of Oliver were totally expended during her illness , and no letter arriving from her husband , she was once more pennyless , but not totally friendless . 
Had she been stained with a thousand errors , they would not have thought it right to remember them when she was bowed to the earth by affliction . 
Their whole possessions were , the cottage , a small garden , a cow and two spinning wheels ; but they dried the tear from her eyes by the voice of kindness , and told her she should be welcome to share their humble fare till returning health enabled her to join their labours for subsistence , if nothing better offered . 
During her illness , the old cottager had found Auberry 's letter , and wishing to gain some intelligence concerning her family , had perused it . 
`` She may be guilty , '' said she , `` but I have no right to judge her . 
She then returned the letter to the pocket from whence she took it , nor even after Rachel 's recovery did she suffer her to imagine , by any word , look or hint , that she had seen it . 
As soon as Rachel had gathered strength sufficient to enable her to attempt it , with slow and uneven steps she proceeded to Newark , determined to make inquiry herself concerning a letter ; for she thought it impossible for Auberry to abandon her and his child to absolute want . 
She went to the office , and was told no such letter was there . 
said she ; `` it must have been here some time , if it is here at all . 
A young man hearing her repeat the name of Dacres , turned over a parcel of letters , and presented to the trembling hands of our heroine the long-expected epistle from her husband . 
Rachel opened it ; a hundred pound bank note dropped from it ! 
She attempted to read it , but a mist came over her eyes ; she reeled , and would have fallen , but the young man caught her . 
He called for water , and an interior door opening , a young woman , very plainly habited , rushed out , supported and pressed to her bosom the lifeless , inanimate form , calling on her to revive by the tender name of friend , her dear , unhappy Rachel . 
Life soon revisited her lips and cheeks ; she opened her eyes , and found herself in the arms of Jessy Oliver . 
Leaning on the arm of this dear friend , and hardly daring to trust her senses lest it should prove an illusion , Rachel retired into a small , neat parlour , where she soon regained sufficient composure to peruse her letter . 
It was short , and the conclusion of it almost annihilated her . 
If not , if some stronger attachment binds you to this spot , Oh Rachel ! 
Rachel referred to the date of the letter ; it had been written near a month . 
and thinks me the most depraved of women , '' said she ; and her emotions became so violent , that in her present debilitated state , Miss Oliver feared she would have fallen into fits ; at any rate , she thought it necessary to take her home , and procuring a carriage , she herself accompanied her to her lowly habitation . 
Convinced of the purity of our heroine 's heart , that her motives had been always right , though her conduct had been sometimes directly contrary to the rigid rules of prudence , she felt all her affection for her revive ; and taking her hand when she had finished her detail , she cried , `` Well , Mrs. Auberry , -LRB- as we shall henceforth call Rachel -RRB- in return for the confidence you have reposed in me , I will tell you my story . 
`` When I left London , I recollected an old school fellow I had at this place , of whose sense and discretion I had a very high opinion ; to her I repaired , and through her means settled the method of corresponding with you and Archibald , also the means of receiving a small yearly income , which I possessed independent of my father . 
Rachel comprehending that Jessy meant Reuben , replied with additional pensiveness , `` Alas ! 
`` So I understand , '' said Jessy , still forcing a smile , while her eyes were brimfull of tears ; `` but I can not repress a fond hope , which almost amounts to a belief , that he is still in existence , and that we shall one day meet again . 
And should the worst come to the worst , there is still my little annuity ; we will live together , my dear Rachel , in humble , but contented independence . 
This was a plan too agreeable to the feelings of Rachel not to be immediately closed with . 
This re-commencement of friendship , with a person so dear to her heart as Jessy Oliver , seemed to ease her bosom of half its load . 
Rachel left ample testimony with her aged hostess at the cottage , that whatever her other errors might have been , she was not guilty of the sin of ingratitude . 
This appeared to the anxious and impatient Rachel an eternity ; and being informed that a ship would go from Liverpool in the course of ten days , they pursued their journey for that place , and arrived just in time to secure a passage , as the vessel was to sail the following morning . 
When he had dispatched his letter with the money to Rachel , he waited with the utmost impatience the arrival of the time in which he might expect her . 
Rachel in want , depressed , sick , brokenhearted , was ever before his eyes . 
` She may yet be innocent , ' cried he ; the very supposition seemed to give him comfort ; ` yet the proofs of her depravity were so incontestable -- ' here his heart glowed with resentment ; ` I will at least send her the means of coming immediately to me . 
If she comes , I will receive her with affection , if not , I will endeavour to forget that I ever knew her . ' 
It was our unfortunate young friend Rachel Dudley . '' 
`` She had a fine boy in her arms , '' continued the Doctor , `` apparently about four months old , and spite of all we have heard , I felt myself impelled to speak to her . 
Her companion was Miss Oliver , whom we heard had eloped from her father 's house , and who has not been heard of by her family for above a twelvemonth . '' 
`` Well , Sir , '' cried Auberry impatiently , `` but what of Rachel . '' 
`` Why I 'll tell you , '' said the Doctor , taking off his wig and deliberately putting on his crimson velvet cap , and without noticing the emotions of Hamden ; `` when I went up to her , and asked her how she did , she laid her hand on her bosom , and with a look I shall never forget , answered , `` Neither well nor happy , Doctor . '' 
Sir , I am the husband of Rachel ! 
It is me she is gone in pursuit of . 
I have deserted , abandoned , forsaken her ; I thought her depraved ; I was told -- '' `` Yes , and so have I been told , '' said the Doctor with vehemence , striking his hand on the elbow of his chair ; `` but after beholding her meek , expressive countenance , where candour and purity are stamped on every feature ; after seeing her emaciated frame , and hearing her tremulous , plaintive accents , I would not believe the smallest tittle to her disadvantage , though millions joined to affirm it ! 
His mother soothed him ; but Dr. Lenient , who hated family pride , blamed the whole of his conduct ; and though before he went to bed he prescribed something to compose the agitated spirits of Auberry , yet when retired , his thoughts were wholly occupied by Rachel , wandering without a proper protector , in search of a man who had wantonly sacrificed her happiness and reputation on the altar of ambition and interest . 
She stopped him , took hold of his hand , and looking earnestly in his face -- `` Is it strange that I should follow you ; -LRB- said she -RRB- were not you my instructor , my more than father , my friend , and was it possible Eumea could stay behind you and live ? 
` beloved Rachel ! ' 
She folded her hands over her face , and the silent tears trickled through her fingers . 
Rachel recovered articulation first . 
`` Reuben , '' said she , `` there is a dear friend of both yours and mine ; 't is Jessy Oliver , who has been my friend , my supporter , my more than sister . '' 
Reuben left his sister , and dropping on his knees by the bedside of Jessy , drew her hands from her face , and feeling more at that moment for her kindness to his sister , than from any other motive , pressed them to his heart , and cried , `` May Heaven forever bless you . '' 
A few days reinstated their health and spirits , and our hero , with his friend Stedfast Trueman , escorted the happy Rachel and Jessy to Philadelphia . 
The former explained every circumstance of her marriage , and its subsequent consequences ; and the latter when solicited to become mistress of Mount Pleasant , did not frown or threaten to be obdurate . 
When the carriage stopped , he waited not for ceremony ; but as Jessy stood on the side of the chaise ready to alight , he seized her in his arms , and bore her into the house ; then running back , took the child from Rachel , -LRB- whom Reuben had helped out of the chaise -RRB- almost devoured it with kisses , and leaping , dancing and capering , cried , `` Yes ! 
Perhaps the reader has before this surmised , that the strange , inquisitive , sick gentleman was no other than Hamden Auberry , who had embarked for Philadelphia immediately after his knowledge of our heroine 's seeking him in that place ; but the ship in which he embarked being a fast sailer , and steering a different course to that pursued by the one in which was his wife , arrived safe in the port of Philadelphia the very night before the commencement of the storm in which poor Rachel suffered so much , and so nearly escaped with life . 
His first inquiries were for Reuben , and he was directed to Mount Pleasant ; on his arrival there , he learnt that Rachel was not arrived , and that Reuben was absent from home . 
Rachel wept , and regretted the pain she had unintentionally given him , whilst he implored her pardon for that false pride , which had first exposed her to the suspicions and insults of those who , envying her superior merit , rejoiced in an opportunity to level her with their own contaminated ideas . 
Her hair hung loose about her shoulders ; her eyes were wild , aud her voice broken . 
She rushed toward Reuben and Jessy , and taking a hand from each , joined them ; then pressing them to her bosom , raised her eyes to heaven -- `` God of the Christians , '' said she fervently , `` make them forever happy . 
Reuben took the hand of Eumea , and would have made her sit down , but she refused . 
said she , `` Eumea will rest no more , know peace no more . 
Farewel , '' said she , enthusiastically elasping her hands , `` do not quite forget the poor , poor Eumea ! '' 
She then left the house , and Reuben sent a person to follow and see that she came to no ill . 
She went home , but continued not long there ; a young woman , who from her wild looks and incoherent language imagined her mind to be disordered , endeavoured to detain her , but in vain . 
Auberry , entirely occupied by the cares of a mercantile life , into which he had successfully entered , and giving every leisure moment to the assisting of Rachel in the education of a beautiful rising family , was entirely cured of jealousy and ambition , and wondered he could have ever doubted the faith of his wife , or have risqued losing so vast a treasure forever , rather than relinquish the hope of being rich and great . 
Rachel , overwhelmed by the rapidity with which Allibi related all this good news , and scarcely crediting what she heard , yet understanding sufficient , perfectly to comprehend the mean finesse of Allibi and his dirty employer , in thus informing her of her accession of fortune , and making a merit of relinquishing the Lancashire estate , in hopes of being made agent and steward to those of much greater value , could scarcely command her temper , whilst she interrogated him concerning the extraordinary intelligence he conveyed . 
However , being ascertained of the truth of his assertions , and received from him some papers of consequence , with a long , fulsome , congratulatory letter from Mr. Andrew Atkins , she appointed him to call the ensuing morning , when her brother and husband would be sure to meet him . 
On the following morning , therefore , at a little past eight o'clock , Mr. Allibi entered the breakfast parlour , where he found Reuben , Rachel , Mr. Auberry and Mrs. Dudley assembled to breakfast . 
As to titles , both my brother Auberry and his wife Rachel , join with me to renounce them ; they are distinctions nothing worth , and should by no means be introduced into a young country , where the only distinction between man and man should be made by virtue , genius and education . 
The incense of gratitude ascended towards heaven , and was returned in blessings on the heads of Reuben , Rachel , and their posterity . 
