And then , '' said Sylvia , as if she was put out by the suggestion , `` she bid me ask cousin Philip for his opinion . 
There was a back way from the river side , up a covered entry , to the yard-door of the Fosters , and a peculiar kind of knock at this door always brought out either John or Jeremiah , or if not them , their shopman , Philip Hepburn ; and the same cake and wine that the excise officer 's wife might just have been tasting , was brought out in the back parlour to treat the smuggler . 
Others averred that there was some plan of a marriage running in the brothers ' heads -- a marriage between William Coulson , Mr. Jeremiah 's wife 's nephew -LRB- Mr. Jeremiah was a widower -RRB- , and Hester Rose , whose mother was some kind of distant relation , and who served in the shop along with William Coulson and Philip Hepburn . 
Again , this was denied by those who averred that Coulson was no blood relation , and that if the Fosters had intended to do anything considerable for Hester , they would never have allowed her and her mother to live in such a sparing way , ekeing out their small income by having Coulson and Hepburn for lodgers . 
Part of the reply turned on this : the old gentlemen had , probably , some deep plan in their heads in permitting their cousin to take Coulson and Hepburn as lodgers , the one a kind of nephew , the other , though so young , the head man in the shop ; if either of them took a fancy to Hester , how agreeably matters could be arranged ! 
While she was gone Sylvia was addressed by the very person she most wished to avoid , and whose absence she had rejoiced over on first entering the shop , her cousin Philip Hepburn . 
He was a serious-looking young man , tall , but with a slight stoop in his shoulder , brought on by his occupation . 
He had thick hair standing off from his forehead in a peculiar but not unpleasing manner ; a long face , with a slightly aquiline nose , dark eyes , and a long upper lip , which gave a disagreeable aspect to a face that might otherwise have been good-looking . 
`` Not that , '' said Philip , kicking the red duffle with his foot , and speaking to the lad . 
He used the name he had had the cousin 's right to call her by since her childhood , without remembering her words on the subject not five minutes before ; but she did , and was vexed . 
Hester looked up at both their countenances , a little wondering what was their position with regard to each other ; for this , then , was the beautiful little cousin about whom Philip had talked to her mother , as sadly spoilt , and shamefully ignorant ; a lovely little dunce , and so forth . 
Philip Hepburn was vexed at his advice being slighted ; and yet he urged it afresh . 
Philip did not like that even a reasonable peace - making interpreter should come between him and Sylvia , so he held his tongue in indignant silence . 
`` A cloak takes nineyards , at least , '' said Philip , decisively . 
But , indeed , she would not have yielded to Philip in anything that she could help . 
Philip followed because she went . 
asked Philip , sternly . 
''' `` I ca n't help it , '' said Sylvia , half inclined to cry at his manner even more than his words . 
Half crying , she pushed forwards to the door ; but Philip held her back . 
Yo 're Philip Hepburn 's cousin , I reckon , and yo ` bide at Haytersbank Farm ? '' 
It was Philip , asking Hester by a silent gesture if he might come in . 
`` It 's my cousin , '' said Philip , reddening a little ; `` she came wi ' her friend in to market , and to make purchases ; and she 's got a turn wi ' seeing the press-gang go past carrying some of the crew of the whalers to the Randyvowse . '' 
`` Ay , ay , '' said Mr. John , quickly passing on into the shop on tip-toe , as if he were afraid he were intruding in his own premises , and beckoning Philip to follow him there . 
Here he softly shut the door between the parlour and the shop . 
Philip , '' he said , coming nearer to his `` head young man , '' `` keep Nicholas and Henry at work in the ware-room upstairs until this riot be over , for it would grieve me if they were misled into violence . '' 
Philip hesitated . 
But when he went to find the shop-boys with a gentle homily on his lips , those to whom it should have been addressed were absent . 
Philip and his master arranged the shop in the exact order the old man loved . 
Then he recollected the wish of his subordinate , and turned round and said -- `` Now go with thy cousin and her friend . 
And then going to corner cupboard , high up in the wall , he pulled a key out of his pocket and unlocked his little store of wine , and cake , and spirits ; and insisted that they should eat and drink while waiting for Philip , who was taking some last measures for the security of the shop during the night . 
But any such plans were frustrated by Philip 's coming back into the parlour , full of grave content , which brimmed over from his eyes , with the parcel of Sylvia 's obnoxious red duffle under his arm ; anticipating so keenly the pleasure awaiting him in the walk , that he was almost surprised by the gravity of his companions as they prepared for it . 
what business had she to be so ungrateful and to try and thwart Philip in his thoughtful wish of escorting them through the streets of the rough , riotous town ? 
She was Philip Hepburn 's aunt , and had had the charge of him until she married from her widowed brother 's house . 
He it was who had let her know when Haytersbank Farm had been to let ; esteeming it a likely piece of land for his uncle to settle down upon , after a somewhat unprosperous career of horsedealing . 
I 'll tak ' thee a bet it 's Philip Hepburn 's voice , convoying her home , just as I said he would , an hour sin ' . '' 
Bell did not answer , as she might have done , that this probability of Philip 's bringing Sylvia home had been her own suggestion , set aside by her husband as utterly unlikely . 
Philip , who followed her , had an excited , but not altogether pleased look about him . 
He received a hearty greeting from Daniel , and a quiet one from his aunt . 
Milk may do for wenches , but Philip and me is for a drop o ' good Hollands and watter this cold night . 
Once let me get quickly set down to it , and Philip there to his glass o ' greg , and you 'll never have such listeners in your life , and mother 's mind will be at ease too . '' 
set thee down to thy victual , and be quiet wi ' thee , for I want to finish my tale to Philip . 
said he , turning round to question Hepburn . 
Hepburn could not say that he had not heard it , for he piqued himself on his truthfulness . 
But instead of frankly and directly owning this , he tried to frame a formal little speech , which would soothe Daniel 's mortified vanity ; and , of course , it had the directly opposite effect . 
Daniel resented being treated like a child , and yet turned his back on Philip with all the wilfulness of one . 
Daniel pretended not to listen at first , and made ostentatious noises with his spoon and glass ; but by-and-by he got quite warm and excited about the doings of the press-gang , and scolded both Philip and Sylvia for not having learnt more particulars as to what was the termination of the riot . 
`` I 've been whaling mysel ' , '' said he ; `` and I 've heerd tell as whalers wear knives , and I 'd ha ' gi'en t ' gang a taste o ' my whittle , if I 'd been cotched up just as I 'd set my foot a-shore . '' 
`` I do n't know , '' said Philip ; `` we 're at war wi ' the French , and we should n't like to be beaten ; and yet if our numbers are not equal to theirs , we stand a strong chance of it . '' 
said Daniel Robson , bringing down his fist with such violence on the round deal table , that the glasses and earthenware shook again . 
Philip did not smoke , so took his turn at talking ; a chance he seldom had with Daniel , unless the latter had his pipe between his lips . 
So after Daniel had filled it , and used Sylvia 's little finger as a stopper to ram down the tobacco -- a habit of his to which she was so accustomed that she laid her hand on the table by him , as naturally as she would have fetched him his spittoon when he began to smoke -- Philip arranged his arguments , and began -- `` I 'm for fair play wi ' the French as much as any man , as long as we can be sure o ' beating them ; but , I say , make sure o ' that , and then give them ivery advantage . 
He laid down his pipe , opened his eyes , stared straight at Philip before speaking , in order to enforce his words , and then said slowly . 
Philip , who sometimes pursued an argument longer than was politic for himself , especially when he felt sure of being on the conquering side , did not see that Daniel Robson was passing out of the indifference of conscious wisdom into the state of anger which ensues when a question becomes personal in some unspoken way . 
Her little foot , placed on the `` traddle , '' was still encased in its smartly buckled shoe -- not slightly to her discomfort , as she was unaccustomed to be shod in walking far ; only as Philip had accompanied them home , neither she nor Molly had liked to go barefoot . 
All this Philip could see ; the greater part of her face was lost to him as she half averted it , with a shy dislike to the way in which she knew from past experience that cousin Philip always stared at her . 
And avert it as she would she heard with silent petulance the harsh screech of Philip 's chair as he heavily dragged it on the stone floor , sitting on it all the while , and felt that he was moving round so as to look at her as much as was in his power , without absolutely turning his back on either her father or mother . 
`` Oh , mother 's content , '' said Sylvia , a little doubting in her heart , but determined to defy Philip at all hazards . 
`` I wanted Sylvia to take the gray , '' said Philip . 
Here 's Philip here , as stands up for laws and press-gangs , I 'll set him to find us a law again pleasing our lass ; and she our only one . 
as for Philip , he 's been preaching up laws all t ' way home . 
Philip 's face flushed . 
Not because of the smuggling ; every one did that , only it was considered polite to ignore it ; but he was annoyed to perceive how quickly his little cousin had discovered that his practice did not agree with his preaching , and vexed too to see how delighted she was to bring out the fact . 
He had some little idea , too , that his uncle might make use of his practice as an argument against the preaching he had lately been indulging in in opposition to Daniel ; but Daniel was too far gone in his Hollands-and-water to do more than enunciate his own opinions , which he did with hesitating and laboured distinctness in the following sentence : `` What I think and say is this . 
Sylvia , too , was in no way annoyed ; not only with her father , but with every man whom she knew , excepting her cousin Philip , was it a matter of course to drink till their ideas became confused . 
Let a ' be , '' said he , clutching at the bottle of spirits , but perhaps rather more good-humoured with what he had drunk than he was before ; he jerked a little more into his glass before his wife carried it off , and locked it up in the cupboard , putting the key in her pocket , and then he said , winking at Philip -- `` Eh ! 
He had to shout out the last after Philip , for Hepburn , really anxious to please his aunt , and disliking drinking habits himself by constitution , was already at the door , and setting out on his return home , thinking , it must be confessed , far more of the character of Sylvia 's shake of the hand than of the parting words of either his uncle or aunt . 
I wish Philip would turn up . '' 
Sylvia scouted the notion of cousin Philip coming into their household in the character of an amusing or entertaining person , till she nearly made her mother angry at her ridicule of the good steady young fellow , to whom Bell looked up as the pattern of all that early manhood should be . 
Sylvia was so much wrapt up in the solemnity of the occasion , that she had no thought to spare at the first moment for the pale and haggard figure opposite ; much less was she aware of her cousin Philip , who now singling her out for the first time from among the crowd , pressed to her side , with an intention of companionship and protection . 
Now Philip spoke to Sylvia . 
asked Philip . 
And Philip , fain to keep with Sylvia , had to follow the two girls close up to the specksioneer , who was preparing for his slow laborious walk back to his lodgings . 
He stopped on seeing his cousin . 
`` Well , Molly , '' said he , faintly , putting out his hand , but his eye passing her face to look at Sylvia in the background , her tear-stained face full of shy admiration of the nearest approach to a hero she had ever seen . 
Philip now spoke . 
And he made as though he would turn away . 
Kinraid 's two sailor friends backed up Philip 's words with such urgency , that , somehow , Sylvia thought they had been to blame in speaking to him , and blushed excessively with the idea . 
`` And now tell me all about t ' folk at home , '' said Philip , evidently preparing to walk back with the girls . 
He generally came to Haytersbank every Sunday afternoon , so Sylvia knew what she had to expect the moment she became aware of his neighbourhood in the churchyard . 
`` I reckon he 'll have to make himself scarce on this coast for awhile , at any rate , '' said Philip . 
asked Molly , who never liked Philip at the best of times , and now , if he was going to disparage her cousin in any way , was ready to take up arms and do battle . 
`` Women is so fond o ' bloodshed , '' said Philip ; `` for t ' hear you talk , who 'd ha ' thought you 'd just come fra ' crying ower the grave of a man who was killed by violence ? 
`` Yes , '' said Philip . 
he asked , as they drew near . 
And Philip replied with ready warmth , -- `` Yes , she is ; no one knows how good but us , who live in the same house wi ' her . '' 
`` Alice Rose is a Friend , if that is what you mean , '' said Philip . 
What a wonder yo ' can speak to such sinners as Sylvia and me , after keepin ' company with so much goodness , '' said Molly , who had not yet forgiven Philip for doubting Kinraid 's power of killing men . 
`` I think thou ` rt good enough as thou art , '' said Philip , tenderly -- at least as tenderly as he durst , for he knew by experience that it did not do to alarm her girlish coyness . 
It was in the form of an assertion , but was said in the tone of a question , and as such Philip replied to it . 
And now they came to the stile which had filled Philip 's eye for some minutes past , though neither of the others had perceived they were so near it ; the stile which led to Moss Brow from the road into the fields that sloped down to Haytersbank . 
Here they would leave Molly , and now would begin the delicious tête-à-tête walk , which Philip always tried to make as lingering as possible . 
To-day he was anxious to show his sympathy with Sylvia , as far as he could read what was passing in her mind ; but how was he to guess the multitude of tangled thoughts in that unseen receptacle ? 
A resolution to be good , if she could , and always to be thinking on death , so that what seemed to her now as simply impossible , might come true -- that she might `` dread the grave as little as her bed ; '' a wish that Philip were not coming home with her ; a wonder if the specksioneer really had killed a man , an idea which made her shudder ; yet from the awful fascination about it , her imagination was compelled to dwell on the tall , gaunt figure , and try to recall the wan countenance ; a hatred and desire of revenge on the press-gang , so vehement that it sadly militated against her intention of trying to be good ; all these notions , and wonders , and fancies , were whirling about in Sylvia 's brain , and at one of their promptings she spoke , -- `` How many miles away is t ' Greenland seas ? 
Philip spoke with pleasure at the prospect , but Sylvia relaxed into indifference . 
If Philip had had his wits about him , he would have pretended to listen to this proposition of a change of pupils , and then possibly Sylvia might have repented making it . 
But he was too much mortified to be diplomatic . 
So she instinctively chose the best method of making friends again , and slipped her hand into his , as he walked a little sullenly at her side . 
`` I 've been talking to Sylvia , '' said Philip , his head still full of his pleasant plan , his hand still tingling from the touch of hers , `` about turning schoolmaster , and coming up here two nights a week for t ' teach her a bit o ' writing and ciphering . '' 
I give and bequeath my book o ' sermons , as is bound in good calfskin , and lies on the third shelf o ' corner cupboard at the right hand o ' t ' fireplace , to Philip Hepburn ; for I reckon he 's as fond o ' reading sermons as thee art o ' light , well-boiled paste , and I 'd be glad for each on ye to have somewhat ye like for to remember me by . 
I 'm noane for grieving her wi ' telling her what I 've been about . 
When this grace was ended , and they were about to begin , Alice said , as if without premeditation , but in reality with a keen shrinking of heart out of sympathy with her child -- `` Philip would have been in to his tea by now , I reckon , if he 'd been coming . '' 
But she answered quite quietly , `` He 'll be gone to his aunt 's at Haytersbank . 
I met him at t ' top o ' t ' Brow , with his cousin and Molly Corney . '' 
`` He 's a deal there , '' said William . 
`` It 's likely ; him and his aunt come from Carlisle-way , and must needs cling together in these strange parts . '' 
`` I saw him at the burying of you Darley , '' said William . 
When Philip came home that Sunday night , he found only Alice up to receive him . 
`` I 'm sorry ; it 's a long way from my uncle 's , and I think clocks are different , '' said he , taking out his watch to compare it with the round moon 's face that told the time to Alice . 
If Alice made any reply to Philip 's `` good-night , '' he did not hear it . 
and Philip has been , Sylvie , to give thee thy ciphering lesson ; and he stayed awhile , thinking thou 'd be coming back . '' 
`` He 'll come again to-morrow night , he says . 
But thou must take care , and mind the nights he says he 'll come , for it 's a long way to come for nought . '' 
Sylvia might have repeated her `` I 'm very sorry '' at this announcement of Philip 's intentions ; but she restrained herself , inwardly and fervently hoping that Molly would not urge the fulfilment of the specksioneer 's promise for to-morrow night , for Philip 's being there would spoil all ; and besides , if she sate at the dresser at her lesson , and Kinraid at the table with her father , he might hear all , and find out what a dunce she was . 
With the next night Hepburn came ; and Kinraid did not . 
After a few words to her mother , Philip produced the candles he had promised , and some books and a quill or two . 
Hepburn smiled . 
`` Here 's a pen as 'll nearly write of itsel ' , '' continued Philip , still trying to coax her out of her sullenness of manner . 
Then he arranged her in the right position . 
Philip began to grow angry at such determined dumbness . 
asked he , with a strange mixture of crossness and tenderness . 
My mother and my grandmother had it : but th ' family came down i ' the world , and Philip 's mother and me , we had none of it ; but I ha ' set my heart on thy having it , child . '' 
`` Let us take a turn at spelling , then , '' said Philip . 
Her mother gave her another of the severe looks that , quiet woman as she was , she could occasionally bestow upon the refractory , and Sylvia took her book and glanced down the column Philip pointed out to her ; but , as she justly considered , one man might point out the task , but twenty could not make her learn it , if she did not choose ; and she sat herself down on the edge of the dresser , and idly gazed into the fire . 
If Philip , sitting with his back to them , heard these words he was discreet enough not to show that he heard . 
And he had his reward : for in a very short time , Sylvia stood before him with her book in her hand , prepared to say her spelling . 
At which he also stood up by instinct , and listened to her slow succeeding letters ; helping her out , when she looked up at him with a sweet childlike perplexity in her face : for a dunce as to booklearning poor Sylvia was and was likely to remain ; and , in spite of his assumed office of schoolmaster , Philip Hepburn could almost have echoed the words of the lover of Jess MacFarlane -- `` I sent my love a letter , But , alas ! 
Perhaps it was not very flattering to notice Sylvia 's great joy when her lessons were over , sadly shortened as they were by Philip 's desire not to be too hard upon her . 
Sylvia danced round to her mother , bent her head back , and kissed her face , and then said defyingly to Philip , `` If iver I write thee a letter it shall just be full of nothing but ` Abednego ! 
Philip made as though he would be going , but Daniel motioned to him to be quiet . 
What Philip was doing was , gazing at Sylvia -- learning her face off by heart . 
Then Philip pulled out the weekly York paper , and began to read the latest accounts of the war then raging . 
Philip read in a high-pitched and unnatural tone of voice , which deprived the words of their reality ; for even familiar expressions can become unfamiliar and convey no ideas , if the utterance is forced or affected . 
Philip was somewhat of a pedant ; yet there was a simplicity in his pedantry not always to be met with in those who are self-taught , and which might have interested any one who cared to know with what labour and difficulty he had acquired the knowledge which now he prized so highly ; reading out Latin quotations as easily as if they were English , and taking a pleasure in rolling polysyllables , until all at once looking askance at Sylvia , he saw that her head had fallen back , her pretty rosy lips open , her eyes fast shut ; in short , she was asleep . 
Philip trembled at these words , and looked at his aunt . 
She gave him no encouragement , standing up , and making as though she had never heard her husband 's speech , by extending her hand , and wishing him `` good-night . '' 
Here 's Philip here as thou ` rt bound t ' give a pair o ' gloves to . '' 
`` Philip knows manners too well . '' 
`` He 'd better , '' said Sylvia , flaming round at him . 
`` If he 'd a touched me , I 'd niver ha ' spoken to him no more . '' 
`` Good-night , Philip , '' said Bell Robson , thinking the conversation unseemly . 
Sylvia was still full of the specksioneer and his stories , when Hepburn came up to give her the next lesson . 
Unwisely enough , she endeavoured to repeat one of the narratives that she had heard from Kinraid : and when she found that Hepburn -LRB- if , indeed , he did not look upon the whole as a silly invention -RRB- considered it only as an interruption to the real business in hand , to which he would try to listen as patiently as he could , in the hope of Sylvia 's applying herself diligently to her copy-book when she had cleared her mind , she contracted her pretty lips , as if to check them from making any further appeals for sympathy , and set about her writing-lesson in a very rebellious frame of mind , only restrained by her mother 's presence from spoken mutiny . 
`` There 's sums -- and geography , '' said Hepburn , slowly and gravely . 
he replied , smiling a little . 
She thought he was making it into a very small place in order to tease her ; so she pouted a little , and then said , `` Greenland is all t ' geography I want to know . 
`` I 'm sure , Sylvie , if Philip will learn thee all that , thou ` lt be such a sight o ' knowledge as ne'er a one o ' th ' Prestons has been sin ' my great-grand-father lost his property . 
This seemed to be Sylvia 's last protest against learning for the night , for after this she turned docile , and really took pains to understand all that Philip could teach her , by means of the not unskilful , though rude , map which he drew for her with a piece of charred wood on his aunt 's dresser . 
He had asked his aunt 's leave before beginning what Sylvia called his `` dirty work ; '' but by-and-by even she became a little interested in starting from a great black spot called Monkshaven , and in the shaping of land and sea around that one centre . 
Sylvia held her round chin in the palms of her hands , supporting her elbows on the dresser ; looking down at the progress of the rough drawing in general , but now and then glancing up at him with sudden inquiry . 
All along he was not so much absorbed in his teaching as to be unconscious of her sweet proximity . 
She was in her best mood towards him ; neither mutinous nor saucy ; and he was striving with all his might to retain her interest , speaking better than ever he had done before -LRB- such brightness did love call forth ! -RRB- 
-- understanding what she would care to hear and to know ; when , in the middle of an attempt at explaining the cause of the long polar days , of which she had heard from her childhood , he felt that her attention was no longer his ; that a discord had come in between their minds ; that she had passed out of his power . 
This certainty of intuition lasted but for an instant ; he had no time to wonder or to speculate as to what had affected her so adversely to his wishes before the door opened and Kinraid came in . 
Then Hepburn knew that she must have heard his coming footsteps , and recognized them . 
He angrily stiffened himself up into coldness of demeanour . 
Almost to his surprise , Sylvia 's greeting to the new comer was as cold as his own . 
She stood rather behind him ; so perhaps she did not see the hand which Kinraid stretched out towards her , for she did not place her own little palm in it , as she had done to Philip an hour ago . 
And she hardly spoke , but began to pore over the rough black map , as if seized with strong geographical curiosity , or determined to impress Philip 's lesson deep on her memory . 
Still Philip was dismayed by seeing the warm welcome which Kinraid received from the master of the house , who came in from the back premises almost at the same time as the specksioneer entered at the front . 
Hepburn was uneasy , too , at finding Kinraid take his seat by the fireside , like one accustomed to the ways of the house . 
Philip disliked smoking . 
Possibly Kinraid did so too , but he took a pipe at any rate , and lighted it , though he hardly used it at all , but kept talking to farmer Robson on sea affairs . 
He had the conversation pretty much to himself . 
Philip sat gloomily by ; Sylvia and his aunt were silent , and old Robson smoked his long clay pipe , from time to time taking it out of his mouth to spit into the bright copper spittoon , and to shake the white ashes out of the bowl . 
Before he replaced it , he would give a short laugh of relishing interest in Kinraid 's conversation ; and now and then he put in a remark . 
Sylvia perched herself sideways on the end of the dresser , and made pretence to sew ; but Philip could see how often she paused in her work to listen . 
By-and-by , his aunt spoke to him , and they kept up a little side conversation , more because Bell Robson felt that her nephew , her own flesh and blood , was put out , than for any special interest they either of them felt in what they were saying . 
Philip was sitting on that side of the fire which was nearest to the window and to Sylvia , and opposite to the specksioneer . 
At length he turned to his cousin and said in a low voice -- `` I suppose we ca n't go on with our spell at geography till that fellow 's gone ? '' 
Philip took refuge in offended silence . 
He was maliciously pleased when his aunt made so much noise with her preparation for supper as quite to prevent the sound of the sailor 's words from reaching Sylvia 's ears . 
She saw that he was glad to perceive that her efforts to reach the remainder of the story were baulked ; this nettled her , and , determined not to let him have his malicious triumph , and still more to put a stop to any attempt at private conversation , she began to sing to herself as she sat at her work ; till , suddenly seized with a desire to help her mother , she dexterously slipped down from her seat , passed Hepburn , and was on her knees toasting cakes right in front of the fire , and just close to her father and Kinraid . 
And now the noise that Hepburn had so rejoiced in proved his foe . 
He could not hear the little merry speeches that darted backwards and forwards as the specksioneer tried to take the toasting-fork out of Sylvia 's hand . 
asked Hepburn of his aunt . 
asked Hepburn , almost wistfully ; he had followed Mrs. Robson into the dairy on pretence of helping her . 
For the good woman thought that he had been hurt by the evident absorption of her husband and daughter with their new friend , and wished to make all easy and straight . 
At length the latter got up to go ; but before he went , he must needs bend over Sylvia and say something to her in so low a tone that Philip could not hear it ; and she , seized with a sudden fit of diligence , never looked up from her sewing ; only nodded her head by way of reply . 
At last he took his departure , after many a little delay , and many a quick return , which to the suspicious Philip seemed only pretences for taking stolen glances at Sylvia . 
As soon as he was decidedly gone , she folded up her work , and declared that she was so much tired that she must go to bed there and then . 
`` Take another glass , Philip , '' said farmer Robson . 
But Hepburn refused the offer rather abruptly . 
He drew near to Sylvia instead . 
He wanted to make her speak to him , and he saw that she wished to avoid it . 
He took up the readiest pretext . 
It was an unwise one as it proved , for it deprived him of his chances of occasionally obtaining her undivided attention . 
`` Not much to-night , '' said she , making a pretence to yawn , yet looking timidly up at his countenance of displeasure . 
`` Nor at any time , '' said he with growing anger ; `` nor for any kind of learning . 
He had a mind that she should bring them to him ; that , at any rate , he should have the pleasure of receiving them out of her hands . 
said Hepburn . 
Something in his tone struck her , and she looked up in his face . 
There were marks of stern offence upon his countenance , and yet in it there was also an air of wistful regret and sadness that touched her . 
`` Yo 're niver angry with me , Philip ? 
Hepburn would fain have snatched at this half proposal that the lessons should be continued , but he was too stubborn and proud to say anything . 
He turned away from the sweet , pleading face without a word , to wrap up his books in a piece of paper . 
He knew that she was standing quite still by his side , though he made as if he did not perceive her . 
When he had done he abruptly wished them all `` good-night , '' and took his leave . 
Then there came an overwhelming self - reproaching burst of love for that `` own mother ; '' a humiliation before her slightest wish , as penance for the moment 's unspoken treason ; and thus Sylvia was led to request her cousin Philip to resume his lessons in so meek a manner , that he slowly and graciously acceded to a request which he was yearning to fulfil all the time . 
Hepburn came and went , and thought Sylvia wonderfully improved in docility and sobriety ; and perhaps also he noticed the improvement in her appearance . 
Philip hailed her interest in geography as another sign of improvement . 
He had brought back his book of maps to the farm ; and there he sat on many an evening teaching his cousin , who had strange fancies respecting the places about which she wished to learn , and was coolly indifferent to the very existence of other towns , and countries , and seas far more famous in story . 
She was occasionally wilful , and at times very contemptuous as to the superior knowledge of her instructor ; but , in spite of it all , Philip went regularly on the appointed evenings to Haytersbank -- through keen black east wind , or driving snow , or slushing thaw ; for he liked dearly to sit a little behind her , with his arm on the back of her chair , she stooping over the outspread map , with her eyes , -- could he have seen them , -- a good deal fixed on one spot in the map , not Northumber - land , where Kinraid was spending the winter , but those wild northern seas about which he had told them such wonders . 
Every time during that summer that Philip saw his cousin , he thought her prettier than she had ever been before ; some new touch of colour , some fresh sweet charm , seemed to have been added , just as every summer day calls out new beauty in the flowers . 
And this was not the addition of Philip 's fancy . 
Then she held it on her hand , and turned it round about , putting her head on one side , the better to view the effect ; and all this time , Hester , peeping at her through the folds of the stuffs displayed in Foster 's windows , saw her with admiring , wistful eyes ; wondering , too , if Philip , at the other counter , were aware of his cousin 's being there , so near to him . 
In the midst she was aware of Philip rushing bare-headed out of the shop , eager and delighted at something he saw outside . 
Sylvia herself had been rather put out by Philip 's way of coming to her . 
`` It made her look so silly , '' she thought ; and `` what for must he make a sight of himself , coming among the market folk in that-a-way ; '' and when he took to admiring her hat , she pulled out the flowers in a pet , and threw them down , and trampled them under foot . 
`` I do n't like Philip to speak to me so , '' said Sylvia , pouting . 
But Sylvia could not repeat his words . 
Philip had addressed his first expression of personal admiration at an unfortunate time . 
It just shows what different views different men and women take of their fellow-creatures , when I say that Hester looked upon Philip as the best and most agreeable man she had ever known . 
His methodical appropriation of the few hours he could call his own was not without its charms to the equally methodical Hester ; the way in which he reproduced any lately acquired piece of knowledge -- knowledge so wearisome to Sylvia -- was delightfully instructive to Hester -- although , as she was habitually silent , it would have required an observer more interested in discovering her feelings than Philip was to have perceived the little flush on the pale cheek , and the brightness in the half-veiled eyes whenever he was talking . 
Once or twice before the Robsons came into the neighbourhood , an idea had crossed her mind that possibly the quiet , habitual way in which she and Philip lived together , might drift them into matrimony at some distant period ; and she could not bear the humble advances which Coulson , Philip 's fellow-lodger , sometimes made . 
They seemed to disgust her with him . 
But after the Robsons settled at Haytersbank , Philip 's evenings were so often spent there that any unconscious hopes Hester might , unawares , have entertained , died away . 
Once -- early in those days -- she had ventured to ask Philip what Sylvia was like . 
Philip had not warmed up at the question , and had given rather a dry catalogue of her features , hair , and height , but Hester , almost to her own surprise , persevered , and jerked out the final question . 
Philip 's sallow cheek grew deeper by two or three shades ; but he answered with a tone of indifference : `` I believe some folks think her so . '' 
But her heart was not quite at ease , and she kept on wondering whether Philip thought his little cousin pretty until she saw her and him together , on that occasion of which we have spoken , when Sylvia came to the shop to buy her new cloak ; and after that Hester never wondered whether Philip thought his cousin pretty or no , for she knew quite well . 
But one Sunday afternoon early in November , Philip came up before the time at which he usually paid his visits . 
He looked grave and pale ; and his aunt began , `` Why , lad ! 
His aunt 's face changed immediately . 
`` Oh , '' said Philip , struck by the difference of look and manner in his aunt , and subdued by seeing how instantly she took alarm . 
`` Nay , it 's not in reason as a woman i ' that line o ' life should n't try to make her house agreeable , '' said Philip . 
Philip 's information had made a deeper impression on his aunt than he intended . 
She really believed her husband to have the serious and important occupation for his mind that she had been taught to consider befitting the superior intellect of the masculine gender ; she would have taxed herself severely if , even in thought , she had blamed him , and Philip respected her feelings too much to say that Sylvia 's father ought to look after her more closely if he made such a pretty creature so constantly his companion ; yet some such speech was only just pent within Philip 's closed lips . 
Again his aunt spoke -- `` I used to think as she and yo ' might fancy one another , but thou ` rt too old-fashioned like for her ; ye would na ' suit ; and it 's as well , for now I can say to thee , that I would take it very kindly if thou would ` st look after her a bit . '' 
Philip 's countenance fell into gloom . 
He had to gulp down certain feelings before he could make answer with discretion . 
Now , Philip , I look to thee to do a brother 's part by my wench , and warn off all as is n't fit . '' 
Sylvia passed quickly through the house-place and went upstairs without speaking to her cousin Philip or to any one . 
He sat on , disliking the visitor , and almost disliking his hospitable uncle for having brought Simpson into the house , sympathizing with his aunt in the spirit which prompted her curt answers , and in the intervals of all these feelings wondering what ground she had for speaking as if she had now given up all thought of Sylvia and him ever being married , and in what way he was too `` old-fashioned . '' 
Robson would gladly have persuaded Philip to join him and Simpson in their drink , but Philip was in no sociable mood , and sate a little aloof , watching the staircase down which sooner or later Sylvia must come , for , as perhaps has been already said , the stairs went up straight out of the kitchen . 
And at length his yearning watch was rewarded ; first , the little pointed toe came daintily in sight , then the trim ancle in the tight blue stocking , the wool of which was spun and the web of which was knitted by her mother 's careful hands ; then the full brown stuff petticoat , the arm holding the petticoat back in decent folds , so as not to encumber the descending feet ; the slender neck and shoulders hidden under the folded square of fresh white muslin ; the crownning beauty of the soft innocent face radiant in colour , and with the light brown curls clustering around . 
She made her way quickly to Philip 's side ; how his heart beat at her approach ! 
`` Is n't he gone yet ? '' 
`` I can not abide him ; I could ha ' pinched father when he asked him for t ' come in . '' 
`` Maybe , he 'll not stay long , '' said Philip , hardly understanding the meaning of what he said , so sweet was it to have her making her whispered confidences to him . 
And in this way the old farmer and the bluff butcher chatted on about horses , while Philip and Sylvia sate together , he turning over all manner of hopes and projects for the future , in spite of his aunt 's opinion that he was too `` old-fashioned '' for her dainty , blooming daughter . 
Perhaps , too , Mrs. Robson saw some reason for changing her mind on this head as she watched Sylvia this night , for she accompanied Philip to the door , when the time came for him to start homewards , and bade him `` good-night '' with unusual fervour , adding -- `` Thou ` st been a deal o ' comfort to me , lad -- a ` most as one as if thou wert a child o ' my own , as at times I could welly think thou art to be . 
Philip 's heart beat fast , but his voice was as calm as usual when he replied -- `` I 'd just keep her a bit aloof from Monkshaven folks ; a lass is always the more thought on for being chary of herself ; and as for t ' rest , I 'll have an eye to the folks she goes among , and if I see that they do n't befit her , I 'll just give her a warning , for she 's not one to like such chaps as yon Simpson there ; she can see what 's becoming in a man to say to a lass , and what 's not . '' 
Philip set out on his two-mile walk home with a tumult of happiness in his heart . 
He was not often carried away by delusions of his own creating ; to-night he thought he had good ground for believing that by patient self-restraint he might win Sylvia 's love . 
A year ago he had nearly earned her dislike by obtruding upon her looks and words betokening his passionate love . 
He alarmed her girlish coyness , as well as wearied her with the wish he had then felt that she should take an interest in his pursuits . 
But , with unusual wisdom he had perceived his mistake ; it was many months now since he had betrayed , by word or look , that she was anything more to him than a little cousin to be cared for and protected when need was . 
The consequence was that she had become tamed , just as a wild animal is tamed ; he had remained tranquil and impassive , almost as if he did not perceive her shy advances towards friendliness . 
She was afraid lest he was displeased with her behaviour in rejecting his instructions , and was not easy till she was at peace with him ; and now , to all appearance , he and she were perfect friends , but nothing more . 
In his absence she would not allow her young companions to laugh at his grave sobriety of character , and somewhat prim demeanour ; she would even go against her conscience , and deny that she perceived any peculiarity . 
When she wanted it she sought his advice on such small subjects as came up in her daily life ; and she tried not to show signs of weariness when he used more words -- and more difficult words -- than were necessary to convey his ideas . 
But her ideal husband was different from Philip in every point , the two images never for an instant merged into one . 
To Philip she was the only woman in the world ; it was the one subject on which he dared not consider , for fear that both conscience and judgment should decide against him , and that he should be convinced against his will that she was an unfit mate for him , that she never would be his , and that it was waste of time and life to keep her shrined in the dearest sanctuary of his being , to the exclusion of all the serious and religious aims , which , in any other case , he would have been the first to acknowledge as the object he ought to pursue . 
For he had been brought up among the Quakers , and shared in their austere distrust of a self-seeking spirit ; yet what else but self-seeking was his passionate prayer , `` Give me Sylvia , or else I die ? '' 
No other vision had ever crossed his masculine fancy for a moment ; his was a rare and constant love that deserved a better fate than it met with . 
At this time his hopes were high , as I have said , not merely as to the growth of Sylvia 's feelings towards him , but as to the probability of his soon being in a position to place her in such comfort , as his wife , as she had never enjoyed before . 
For the brothers Foster were thinking of retiring from business , and relinquishing the shop to their two shopmen , Philip Hepburn and William Coulson . 
But every step they took tended this way , and Philip knew their usual practice of deliberation too well , to feel in the least impatient for the quicker progress of the end which he saw steadily approaching . 
The whole atmosphere of life among the Friends at this date partook of this character of self-repression , and both Coulson and Hepburn shared in it . 
Coulson was just as much aware of the prospect opening before him as Hepburn ; but they never spoke together on the subject , although their mutual knowledge might be occasionally implied in their conversation on their future lives . 
The separation of the business , -- the introduction of their shopmen to the distant manufacturers who furnished their goods -LRB- in those days the system of `` travellers '' was not so widely organized as it is at present -RRB- , -- all these steps were in gradual progress ; and already Philip saw himself in imagination in the dignified position of joint master of the principal shop in Monkshaven , with Sylvia installed as his wife , with certainly a silk gown , and possibly a gig at her disposal . 
In all Philip 's visions of future prosperity , it was Sylvia who was to be aggrandized by them ; his own life was to be spent as it was now , pretty much between the four shop walls . 
All this enlargement of interest in the shop occupied Philip fully for some months after the period referred to in the preceding chapter . 
Remembering his last conversation with his aunt , he might have been uneasy at his inability to perform his promise and look after his pretty cousin , but that about the middle of November Bell Robson had fallen ill of a rheumatic fever , and that her daughter had been entirely absorbed in nursing her . 
Philip came up that evening and found Sylvia in wild spirits . 
She thought that everything was done , now that her mother had once come downstairs again ; she laughed with glee ; she kissed her mother ; she shook hands with Philip ; she almost submitted to a speech of more than usual tenderness from him ; but , in the midst of his words , her mother 's pillows wanted arranging and she went to her chair , paying no more heed to his words than if they had been addressed to the cat , that lying on the invalid 's knee was purring out her welcome to the weak hand feebly stroking her back . 
Robson himself soon came in , looking older and more subdued since Philip had seen him last . 
He was very urgent that his wife should have some spirits and water ; but on her refusal , almost as if she loathed the thought of the smell , he contented himself with sharing her tea , though he kept abusing the beverage as `` washing the heart out of a man , '' and attributing all the degeneracy of the world , growing up about him in his old age , to the drinking of such slop . 
At the same time , his little self-sacrifice put him in an unusually good temper ; and , mingled with his real gladness at having his wife once more on the way to recovery , brought back some of the old charm of tenderness combined with light-heartedness , which had won the sober Isabella Preston long ago . 
There 's Philip there I 'll warrant is as proud o ' bein ' Preston by t ' mother 's side , for it runs i ' t ' blood , lass . 
Now Philip 's and my missus 's has a turn beyond common i ' their nostrils , as if they was sniffin ' at t ' rest of us world , an ' seein ' if we was good enough for 'em to consort wi ' . 
Philip , when thou goes courtin ' , come t ' me , and a 'll give thee many a wrinkle . 
`` You 're but weakly yet , '' said Philip shortly ; he did not intend to say it , but the words seemed to come out in spite of himself . 
Maybe , a 'll fetch thee home , an ' maybe Philip will convoy thee , for Nanny Corney bade thee to t ' merry-making , as well . 
`` I do n't think as I can go , '' said Philip , secretly pleased to know that he had the opportunity in his power ; `` I 'm half bound to go wi ' Hester Rose and her mother to t ' watch-night . '' 
`` Well then , '' said good-natured farmer Robson , only seeing the surface of things , `` a 'll make shift to fetch Sylvie back fra ' t ' merry-making , and thee an ' thy young woman can go to t ' prayer-makin ' ; it 's every man to his taste , say I. '' But in spite of his half-promise , nay against his natural inclination , Philip was lured to the Corneys ' by the thought of meeting Sylvia , of watching her and exulting in her superiority in pretty looks and ways to all the other girls likely to be assembled . 
Besides -LRB- he told his conscience -RRB- he was pledged to his aunt to watch over Sylvia like a brother . 
So in the interval before New-Year 's Eve , he silently revelled as much as any young girl in the anticipation of the happy coming time . 
At this hour , all the actors in this story having played out their parts and gone to their rest , there is something touching in recording the futile efforts made by Philip to win from Sylvia the love he yearned for . 
But , at the time , any one who had watched him might have been amused to see the grave , awkward , plain young man studying patterns and colours for a new waistcoat , with his head a little on one side , after the meditative manner common to those who are choosing a new article of dress . 
Philip had so seldom been to anything of the kind , that , even had Sylvia not been going , he would have felt a kind of shy excitement at the prospect of anything so unusual . 
But , indeed , if Sylvia had not been going , it is very probable that Philip 's rigid conscience might have been aroused to the question whether such parties did not savour too much of the world for him to form one in them . 
As it was , however , the facts to him were simply these . 
He was going and she was going . 
The day before , he had hurried off to Haytersbank Farm with a small paper parcel in his pocket -- a ribbon with a little briar-rose pattern running upon it for Sylvia . 
It was the first thing he had ever ventured to give her -- the first thing of the kind would , perhaps , be more accurate ; for when he had first begun to teach her any lessons , he had given her Mavor 's Spelling-book , but that he might have done , out of zeal for knowledge , to any dunce of a little girl of his acquaintance . 
This ribbon was quite a different kind of present ; he touched it tenderly , as if he were caressing it , when he thought of her wearing it ; the briar-rose -LRB- sweetness and thorns -RRB- seemed to be the very flower for her ; the soft , green ground on which the pink and brown pattern ran , was just the colour to show off her complexion . 
And she would in a way belong to him : her cousin , her mentor , her chaperon , her lover ! 
`` My cousin Philip , him as is shopman at Foster 's , '' said Sylvia , innocently . 
our cousin Philip is it ? 
and he 'll not be living so far away from your mother ? 
He 's a coming here to-night , is n't he , Bessy ? '' 
`` I wish yo ' would n't talk so , Molly , '' said Sylvia ; `` me and Philip is good enough friends , but we niver think on each other in that way ; leastways , I do n't -- '' `` -LRB- Sweet butter ! 
I niver said nought about marrying , did I , that yo ' need look so red and shamefaced about yo ' r cousin Philip ? 
I 'm glad he 's comin ' to-night tho ' , for as I 'm done makin ' love and courtin ' , it 's next best t ' watch other folks ; an ' yo ' r face , Sylvia , has letten me into a secret , as I 'd some glimpses on , afore I was wed. '' Sylvia secretly determined not to speak a word more to Philip than she could help , and wondered how she could ever have liked Molly at all , much less have made a companion of her . 
She would hardly speak to Philip , and pretended not to see his outstretched hand , but passed on to the chimney-corner , and tried to shelter herself behind the broad back of farmer Corney , who had no notion of relinquishing his customary place for all the young people who ever came to the house , -- or for any old people either , for that matter . 
Philip had not recovered from the rebuff she had given him by refusing his offered hand , and was standing still , in angry silence , when Mrs. Corney thrust a young woman just arrived upon his attention . 
Most of these were young farmers , with whom Philip had nothing in common , and from whom , in shy reserve , he had withdrawn himself when he first came in . 
But now he wished himself among them sooner than set to talk to Nancy Pratt , when he had nothing to say . 
And yet he might have had a companion less to his mind , for she was a decent young woman of a sober age , less inclined to giggle than many of the younger ones . 
But all the time that he was making common-place remarks to her he was wondering if he had offended Sylvia , and why she would not shake hands with him , and this preoccupation of his thoughts did not make him an agreeable companion . 
Philip watched it all as greedily as if it gave him delight . 
Kinraid was too well seasoned to care what amount of liquor he drank ; Philip had what was called a weak head , and disliked muddling himself with drink because of the immediate consequence of intense feelings of irritability , and the more distant one of a racking headache next day ; so both these two preserved very much the same demeanour they had held at the beginning of the evening . 
And , somehow , the more she yielded to this fascination the more she avoided Philip . 
He did not speak flatteringly -- he did not pay compliments -- he watched her with discontented , longing eyes , and grew more inclined every moment , as he remembered his anticipation of a happy evening , to cry out in his heart vanitas vanitatum . 
And now came Sylvia 's pretty new ribbon that Philip had given her -LRB- he almost longed to snatch it out of Mrs. Corney 's hands and burn it before all their faces , so annoyed was he with the whole affair -RRB- . 
Sylvia went up and blew out the candle , and before the sudden partial darkness was over he had taken the candle into his fingers and , according to the traditional meaning of the words , was in the place of the candlestick , and as such was to be kissed . 
Every one laughed at innocent Sylvia 's face as the meaning of her penance came into it , every one but Philip , who almost choked . 
`` I 'm candlestick , '' said Kinraid , with less of triumph in his voice than he would have had with any other girl in the room . 
Philip 's spirits rose , and he yearned to go to her and tell her how he approved of her conduct . 
Alas , Philip ! 
Sylvia , though as modest a girl as ever lived , was no prude , and had been brought up in simple , straightforward country ways ; and with any other young man , excepting , perhaps , Philip 's self , she would have thought no more of making a rapid pretence of kissing the hand or cheek of the temporary `` candlestick , '' than our ancestresses did in a much higher rank on similar occasions . 
Kinraid , though mortified by his public rejection , was more conscious of this than the inexperienced Philip ; he resolved not to be baulked , and watched his opportunity . 
For the time he went on playing as if Sylvia 's conduct had not affected him in the least , and as if he was hardly aware of her defection from the game . 
One instant Charley Kinraid was missing from the circle of which he was the life and soul ; and then back he came with an air of satisfaction on his face , intelligible enough to those who had seen his game ; but unnoticed by Philip , who , amidst the perpetual noise and movements around him , had not perceived Sylvia 's leaving the room , until she came back at the end of about a quarter of an hour , looking lovelier than ever , her complexion brilliant , her eyes drooping , her hair neatly and freshly arranged , tied with a brown ribbon instead of that she was supposed to have forfeited . 
She looked as if she did not wish her return to be noticed , stealing softly behind the romping lads and lasses with noiseless motions , and altogether such a contrast to them in her cool freshness and modest neatness , that both Kinraid and Philip found it difficult to keep their eyes off her . 
But the former had a secret triumph in his heart which enabled him to go on with his merry-making as if it absorbed him ; while Philip dropped out of the crowd and came up to where she was standing silently by Mrs. Corney , who , arms akimbo , was laughing at the frolic and fun around her . 
Sylvia started a little when Philip spoke , and kept her soft eyes averted from him after the first glance ; she answered him shortly , but with unaccustomed gentleness . 
He had only asked her when she would like him to take her home ; and she , a little surprised at the idea of going home when to her the evening seemed only beginning , had answered , -- `` Go home ? 
But Mrs. Corney , having heard his question , broke in with all sorts of upbraidings . 
And this idea now took possession of Mrs. Corney 's mind , for she would not willingly allow one of her guests to leave before they had done justice to her preparations ; and , cutting her speech short , she hastily left Sylvia and Philip together . 
His heart beat fast ; his feeling towards her had never been so strong or so distinct as since her refusal to kiss the `` candlestick . '' 
He was on the point of speaking , of saying something explicitly tender , when the wooden trencher which the party were using at their play , came bowling between him and Sylvia , and spun out its little period right betwixt them . 
Every one was moving from chair to chair , and when the bustle was over Sylvia was seated at some distance from him , and he left standing outside the circle , as if he were not playing . 
In fact , Sylvia had unconsciously taken his place as actor in the game while he remained spectator ; and as it turned out , an auditor of a conversation not intended for his ears . 
He was wedged against the wall , close to the great eight-day clock , with its round moon-like smiling face forming a ludicrous contrast to his long , sallow , grave countenance , which was pretty much at the same level above the sanded floor . 
Before him sat Molly Brunton and one of her sisters , their heads close together in too deep talk to attend to the progress of the game . 
Philip 's attention was caught by the words -- `` I 'll lay any wager he kissed her when he ran off into t ' parlour . '' 
There was something in Sylvia 's look , ay , and in Charley Kinraid 's , too , that shot conviction into Philip 's mind . 
he watched them incessantly during the interval before supper ; they were intimate , and yet shy with each other , in a manner that enraged while it bewildered Philip . 
Philip 's dark brow grew darker as he gazed . 
He , too , started when Mrs. Corney , close at his elbow , bade him go in to supper along with some of the elder ones , who were not playing ; for the parlour was not large enough to hold all at once , even with the squeezing and cramming , and sitting together on chairs , which was not at all out of etiquette at Monkshaven . 
Philip was too reserved to express his disappointment and annoyance at being thus arrested in his painful watch over Sylvia ; but he had no appetite for the good things set before him , and found it hard work to smile a sickly smile when called upon by Josiah Pratt for applause at some country joke . 
It seemed to be Philip 's luck this night to be pent up in places ; for again the space between the benches and the wall was filled up by the in-rush before he had time to make his way out ; and all he could do was to sit quiet where he was . 
But between the busy heads and overreaching arms he could see Charley and Sylvia , sitting close together , talking and listening more than eating . 
She was in a new strange state of happiness not to be reasoned about , or accounted for , but in a state of more exquisite feeling than she had ever experienced before ; when , suddenly lifting her eyes , she caught Philip 's face of extreme displeasure . 
There 's Philip looking at me so . '' 
`` Philip ! '' 
said Kinraid , with a sudden frown upon his face . 
`` My cousin , '' she replied , instinctively comprehending what had flashed into his mind , and anxious to disclaim the suspicion of having a lover . 
asked he , with a tender meaning in his tone . 
`` It was n't I as forgot you , '' said Sylvia , so softly as not to be heard by him . 
He tried to make her repeat what she had said , but she would not , and he could only conjecture that it was something more tell-tale than she liked to say again , and that alone was very charming to him . 
`` I shall walk home with you , '' said he , as Sylvia at last rose to depart , warned by a further glimpse of Philip 's angry face . 
said she hastily , `` I ca n't do with yo ' ; '' for somehow she felt the need of pacifying Philip , and knew in her heart that a third person joining their tête-à-tête walk would only increase his displeasure . 
Philip stood , hat in hand , in the doorway between the kitchen and parlour , watching her so intently that he forgot to be civil , and drew many a jest and gibe upon him for his absorption in his pretty cousin . 
When Sylvia reached him , he said -- `` Yo 're ready at last , are yo ' ? '' 
said he sharply , as he saw Kinraid rummaging for his cap in a heap of men 's clothes , thrown into the back-kitchen . 
`` No , '' said Sylvia , in affright at Philip 's fierce look and passionate tone . 
Philip , my man , yo 'll not be sorry to be spared t ' walk round by Haytersbank such a neet . 
said Kinraid with easy freedom -- a freedom which Philip envied but could not have imitated , although he was deeply disappointed at the loss of his walk with Sylvia , when he had intended to exercise the power his aunt had delegated to him of remonstrance if her behaviour had been light or thoughtless , and of warning if he saw cause to disapprove of any of her associates . 
After the Robsons had left , a blank fell upon both Charley and Philip . 
In a few minutes , however , the former , accustomed to prompt decision , resolved that she and no other should be his wife . 
Accustomed to popularity among women , and well versed in the incipient signs of their liking for him , he anticipated no difficulty in winning her . 
Satisfied with the past , and pleasantly hopeful about the future , he found it easy to turn his attention to the next prettiest girl in the room , and to make the whole gathering bright with his ready good-temper and buoyant spirit . 
Mrs. Corney had felt it her duty to press Philip to stay , now that , as she said , he had no one but himself to see home , and the new year so near coming in . 
To any one else in the room she would have added the clinching argument , `` A shall take it very unkind if yo ' go now ; '' but somehow she could not say this , for in truth Philip 's look showed that he would be but a wet blanket on the merriment of the party . 
So , with as much civility as could be mustered up between them , he took leave . 
Shutting the door behind him , he went out into the dreary night , and began his lonesome walk back to Monkshaven . 
The cold sleet almost blinded him as the sea-wind drove it straight in his face ; it cut against him as it was blown with drifting force . 
Yet he went clear and straight along his way , having unconsciously left all guidance to the animal instinct which co-exists with the human soul , and sometimes takes strange charge of the human body , when all the nobler powers of the individual are absorbed in acute suffering . 
From the direction of the wind , it seemed as if the sound was flung with strength and power right into Philip 's face . 
He walked down the hill to its merry sound -- its merry sound , his heavy heart . 
As he entered the long High Street of Monkshaven he could see the watching lights put out in parlour , chamber , or kitchen . 
He turned to the right , into the court where he lodged with Alice Rose . 
He opened the door ; Alice , her daughter , and Coulson stood as if awaiting him . 
Under the influence of this large charity , she forgot her habitual reserve , and came forward as Philip entered to meet him with her New Year 's wishes -- wishes that she had previously interchanged with the other two . 
`` A happy New Year to you , Philip , and may God have you in his keeping all the days thereof ! '' 
He took her hand , and shook it warmly in reply . 
Alice Rose said something curtly about the lateness of the hour and her being much tired ; and then she and her daughter went upstairs to the front chamber , and Philip and Coulson to that which they shared at the back of the house . 
Coulson and Philip were friendly but not intimate . 
There was a private feeling in Coulson 's heart which would have made a less amiable fellow dislike Philip . 
Coulson asked Philip if he had enjoyed himself at the Corneys , and Philip replied -- `` Not much ; such parties are noane to my liking . '' 
Coulson wisely left Philip to make the application for himself . 
Philip did not answer him , and he thought he had fallen asleep . 
But he was roused from his first slumber by Hepburn 's soft movements about the room . 
Philip had thought better of it , and , with some penitence in his heart for his gruffness to the unoffending Coulson , was trying not to make any noise while he undressed . 
Still , as it was New Year 's day , a time of some licence , Philip had mercy on his fellow-shopman , and did not waken him till just as he was leaving the room . 
Carrying his shoes in his hand , he went softly downstairs , for he could see from the top of the flight that neither Alice nor her daughter was down yet , as the kitchen shutters were not unclosed . 
Philip went about undoing the shutters , and trying to break up the raking coal , with as little noise as might be , for he had compassion on the tired sleepers . 
When Philip came back from filling it , he found Alice and Hester both in the kitchen , and trying to make up for lost time by hastening over their work . 
Hester looked busy and notable with her gown pinned up behind her , and her hair all tucked away under a clean linen cap ; but Alice was angry with herself for her late sleeping , and that and other causes made her speak crossly to Philip , as he came in with his snowy feet , and well-filled kettle . 
Philip was surprised and annoyed . 
He had found relief from his own thoughts in doing what he believed would help others . 
He gave up the kettle to her snatching hands , and sate down behind the door in momentary ill-temper . 
In a minute Philip was at her side , and had heaved it to its place for her . 
She looked in his face for a moment wistfully , but hardly condescended to thank him ; at least the sound of the words did not pass the lips that formed them . 
Rebuffed by her manner , he went back to his old seat , and mechanically watched the preparations for breakfast ; but his thoughts went back to the night before , and the comparative ease of his heart was gone . 
The first stir of a new day had made him feel as if he had had no sufficient cause for his annoyance and despondency the previous evening ; but now condemned to sit quiet , he reviewed looks and words , and saw just reason for his anxiety . 
After some consideration he resolved to go that very night to Haytersbank , and have some talk with either Sylvia or her mother ; what the exact nature of this purposed conversation should be , he did not determine ; much would depend on Sylvia 's manner and mood , and on her mother 's state of health ; but at any rate something would be learnt . 
During breakfast something was learnt nearer home ; though not all that a man less unconscious and more vain than Philip might have discovered . 
He only found out that Mrs. Rose was displeased with him for not having gone to the watch-night with Hester , according to the plan made some weeks before . 
Hepburn and Coulson took it in turns week and week about to go first home to dinner ; the one who went first sate down with Mrs. Rose and her daughter , instead of having his portion put in the oven to keep warm for him . 
To-day it was Hepburn 's turn to be last . 
Philip was trying to do his business with his mind far away ; and the consequence was that his manner was not such as to recommend him to the customers , some of whom recollected it as very different , courteous and attentive , if grave and sedate . 
She had a little girl with her , of about five years old , that she had lifted up on the counter , and who was watching Philip with anxious eyes , occasionally whispering in her mother 's ear , and then hiding her face against her cloak . 
`` I 'm very sorry , '' said Philip . 
Philip took the handkerchief and hoped he had made honourable amends for his want of recognition . 
Philip saw , however , that there was some wish ungratified on the part of the little maiden which he was expected to inquire into , and accordingly he did his duty . 
The child burrowed her face closer into her mother 's neck , and refused to allow the kiss which Philip willingly offered . 
All he could do was to touch the back of the little white fat neck with his lips . 
The mother carried her off only half-satisfied , and Philip felt that he must try and collect his scattered wits , and be more alive to the occasion . 
Towards the dinner-hour the crowd slackened ; Hester began to replenish decanters and bottles , and to bring out a fresh cake before she went home to dinner ; and Coulson and Philip looked over the joint present they always made to her on this day . 
Coulson was , however , the most resolute ; and when she returned from the parlour the little parcel was in Philip 's hands . 
`` Here , Hester , '' said he , going round the counter to her , just as she was leaving the shop . 
He took her hand as he said this . 
She went a little paler , and her eyes brightened as though they would fill with tears as they met his ; she could not have helped it , do what she would . 
Philip re-arranged disorderly goods ; and then sate down on the counter by the window ; it was the habitual place for the one who stayed behind ; for excepting on market-day there was little or no custom during the noon-hour . 
Formerly he used to move the drapery with which the window was ornamented , and watch the passers-by with careless eye . 
But now , though he seemed to gaze abroad , he saw nothing but vacancy . 
All the morning since he got up he had been trying to fight through his duties -- leaning against a hope -- a hope that first had bowed , and then had broke as soon as he really tried its weight . 
There was not a sign of Sylvia 's liking for him to be gathered from the most careful recollection of the past evening . 
But what if he could not ? 
What if the thought of her was bound up with his life ; and that once torn out by his own free will , the very roots of his heart must come also ? 
No ; he was resolved he would go on ; as long as there was life there was hope ; as long as Sylvia remained unpledged to any one else , there was a chance for him . 
He would remodel his behaviour to her . 
He could not be merry and light-hearted like other young men ; his nature was not cast in that mould ; and the early sorrows that had left him a lonely orphan might have matured , but had not enlivened his character . 
He thought with some bitterness on the power of easy talking about trifles which some of those he had met with at the Corneys ' had exhibited . 
But then he felt stirring within him a force of enduring love which he believed to be unusual , and which seemed as if it must compel all things to his wish in the end . 
A year or so ago he had thought much of his own cleverness and his painfully acquired learning , and he had imagined that these were the qualities which were to gain Sylvia . 
But now , whether he had tried them and had failed to win even her admiration , or whether some true instinct had told him that a woman 's love may be gained in many ways sooner than by mere learning , he was only angry with himself for his past folly in making himself her school -- nay , her task-master . 
To-night though , he would start off on a new tack . 
He would not even upbraid her for her conduct the night before ; he had shown her his displeasure at the time ; but she should see how tender and forgiving he could be . 
He would lure her to him rather than find fault with her . 
When Coulson came back Philip went to his solitary dinner . 
In general he was quite alone while eating it ; but to-day Alice Rose chose to bear him company . 
She watched him with cold severe eye for some time , until he had appeased his languid appetite . 
Then she began with the rebuke she had in store for him ; a rebuke the motives to which were not entirely revealed even to herself . 
Philip felt the colour mount to his face ; he was not in the mood for patiently standing the brunt of the attack which he saw was coming , and yet he had a reverent feeling for woman and for age . 
He wished she would leave him alone ; but he only said , `` I had nought but a slice o ' cold beef for supper , if you 'll call that feasting . '' 
`` Neither do godly ways savour delicately after the pleasures of the world , '' continued she , unheeding his speech . 
`` Mother , '' said Philip , impatiently -LRB- both he and Coulson called Alice `` mother '' at times -RRB- , `` I do n't think I am fallen away , and any way I can not stay now to be -- -- it 's New Year 's Day , and t ' shop is throng . '' 
Time was , Philip , when thou 'd niver ha ' letten a merry-making keep thee fra ' t ' watch-night , and t ' company o ' the godly . '' 
`` I tell yo ' it was no merry-making to me , '' said Philip , with sharpness , as he left the house . 
At that moment Philip , smitten by his conscience for his hard manner of speech , came back ; but Alice did not hear or see him till he was close by her , and then he had to touch her to recall her attention . 
`` Mother , '' said he , `` I was wrong . 
said she , looking up and putting her thin arm on his shoulder as he stooped , `` Satan is desiring after yo ' that he may sift yo ' as wheat . 
Philip reddened . 
He could not and would not give it up , and yet it was difficult to resist the pleading of the usually stern old woman . 
`` Nay , '' said he , withdrawing himself ever so little from her hold ; `` my aunt is but ailing , they 're my own flesh and blood , and as good folks as needs be , though they may n't be o ' our -- o ' your way o ' thinking in a ' things . '' 
`` Them 's Satan 's words , tho ' yo ' spoke 'em , Philip . 
`` But do n't think , mother , '' said Philip , his last words of conciliation , for the clock had given warning for two , `` as I 'm boun ' for Hell , just because I go t ' see my own folks , all I ha ' left o ' kin . '' 
And once more , after laying his hand with as much of a caress as was in his nature on hers , he left the house . 
Probably Alice would have considered the first words that greeted Philip on his entrance into the shop as an answer to her prayer , for they were such as put a stop to his plan of going to see Sylvia that evening ; and if Alice had formed her inchoate thoughts into words , Sylvia would have appeared as the nearest earthly representative of the spirit of temptation whom she dreaded for Philip . 
As he took his place behind the counter , Coulson said to him in a low voice , -- `` Jeremiah Foster has been round to bid us to sup wi ' him to-night . 
A glance from his eyes to Philip told the latter that Coulson believed the business spoken of had something to do with the partnership , respecting which there had been a silent intelligence for some time between the shopmen . 
asked Philip , doggedly unwilling , even yet , to give up his purposed visit . 
`` I do n't think as I can go , '' said Philip , feeling just then as if the long-hoped-for partnership was as nothing compared to his plan . 
It was always distasteful to him to have to give up a project , or to disarrange an intended order of things , such was his nature ; but to-day it was absolute pain to yield his own purpose . 
`` I did n't say I might n't go , '' said Philip , weighing consequences , until called off to attend to customers . 
In the course of the afternoon , however , he felt himself more easy in deferring his visit to Haytersbank till the next evening . 
Charley Kinraid entered the shop , accompanied by Molly Brunton and her sisters ; and though they all went towards Hester 's side of the shop , and Philip and Coulson had many people to attend to , yet Hepburn 's sharpened ears caught much of what the young women were saying . 
From that he gathered that Kinraid had promised them New Year 's gifts , for the purchase of which they were come ; and after a little more listening he learnt that Kinraid was returning to Shields the next day , having only come over to spend a holiday with his relations , and being tied with ship 's work at the other end . 
The principal thought of the young women was to secure the articles they most fancied ; Charley Kinraid was -LRB- so Philip thought -RRB- especially anxious that the youngest and prettiest should be pleased . 
Hepburn watched him perpetually with a kind of envy of his bright , courteous manner , the natural gallantry of the sailor . 
If it were but clear that Sylvia took as little thought of him as he did of her , to all appearance , Philip could even have given him praise for manly good looks , and a certain kind geniality of disposition which made him ready to smile pleasantly at all strangers , from babies upwards . 
As the party turned to leave the shop they saw Philip , the guest of the night before ; and they came over to shake hands with him across the counter ; Kinraid 's hand was proffered among the number . 
Last night Philip could not have believed it possible that such a demonstration of fellowship should have passed between them ; and perhaps there was a slight hesitation of manner on his part , for some idea or remembrance crossed Kinraid 's mind which brought a keen searching glance into the eyes which for a moment were fastened on Philip 's face . 
In spite of himself , and during the very action of hand-shaking , Philip felt a cloud come over his face , not altering or moving his features , but taking light and peace out of his countenance . 
Molly Brunton began to say something , and he gladly turned to look at her . 
She was asking him why he went away so early , for they had kept it up for four hours after he left , and last of all , she added -LRB- turning to Kinraid -RRB- , her cousin Charley had danced a hornpipe among the platters on the ground . 
Philip hardly knew what he said in reply , the mention of that pas-seul lifted such a weight off his heart . 
He could smile now , after his grave fashion , and would have shaken hands again with Kinraid had it been required ; for it seemed to him that no one , caring ever so little in the way that he did for Sylvia , could have borne four mortal hours of a company where she had been , and was not ; least of all could have danced a hornpipe , either from gaiety of heart , or even out of complaisance . 
He felt as if the yearning after the absent one would have been a weight to his legs , as well as to his spirit ; and he imagined that all men were like himself . 
As darkness closed in , and the New Year 's throng became scarce , Philip 's hesitation about accompanying Coulson faded away . 
He was more comfortable respecting Sylvia , and his going to see her might be deferred ; and after all he felt that the wishes of his masters ought to be attended to , and the honour of an invitation to the private house of Jeremiah not to be slighted for anything short of a positive engagement . 
Besides the ambitious man of business existed strongly in Philip . 
Each rather drew back from the decided step of knocking at the door ; but with a rebuffing shake at his own folly , Philip was the one to give a loud single rap . 
Ay , Philip , '' continued she , turning him round with motherly freedom , `` yo 'll do if yo 'll but gi ' your shoon a polishin ' wipe on you other mat . 
But it was only the kind of speech that had been agreed upon by the two brothers with a view of impressing on Hepburn and Coulson the great and unusual responsibility of the situation into which the Fosters wished them to enter . 
Philip , canst thee tell me the exact amount of stock in the shop at present ? '' 
It had only just been taken ; Philip had it at his fingers ' ends . 
Coulson looked at him in a little dismay , and could not repress a sigh . 
But Philip read the countenances , nay , by some process of which he was not himself aware , he read the minds of the brothers , and felt no dismay at what he saw there . 
`` Two thousand one hundred and seventy-six pound , sixteen shillings and eightpence , '' said Philip . 
If Philip and William here , for instance , said they 'd like to purchase the business , I reckon thee and me would not ask 'em so much as we should ask Millers '' -LRB- Millers was an upstart petty rival shop at the end of the bridge in the New Town -RRB- . 
`` I wish Philip and William was to come after us , '' said John . 
Philip more bravely said , `` I have fifty-three pounds seven and fourpence in yo ' r hands , Master John , and it 's all I have i ' the world . '' 
Philip replied , -- `` There 's no one who can put forwards a penny for me : I have but few kin , and they have little to spare beyond what they need . '' 
`` Why , John , '' replied Jeremiah , `` it was but yesterday thee saidst thee would rather have Philip and William than any men o ' fifty that thee knowed . 
This was far more than either Hepburn or Coulson had imagined it to be ; and a look of surprise , almost amounting to dismay , crept over their faces , in spite of their endeavour to keep simply motionless and attentive . 
They were afraid lest Hepburn and Coulson should be dazzled by the amount of profits , and had so arranged the sliding-scale of payment as to reduce the first year 's income to what the elder men thought a very moderate sum , but what to the younger ones appeared an amount of wealth such as they , who had neither of them ever owned much more than fifty pounds , considered almost inexhaustible . 
Then Philip stood up , for he felt as if anything he could say sitting down would not be sufficiently expressive of gratitude , and William instantly followed his example . 
Hepburn began in a formal manner , something the way in which he had read in the York newspapers that honourable members returned thanks when their health was given . 
Philip 's voice quivered a little , as some remembrance passed across his mind ; at this unusual moment of expansion out it came . 
Philip 's assent came lagging . 
He had thought of Sylvia living , almost as much as of the dead mother , whose last words had been a committal of her child to the Father of the friendless ; and now that a short delay was placed between the sight of the cup and his enjoyment of it , there was an impatient chafing in the mind of the composed and self-restrained Philip ; and then repentance quick as lightning effaced the feeling , and he pledged himself to the secresy which was enjoined . 
Some few more details as to their mode of procedure -- of verifying the Fosters ' statements , which to the younger men seemed a perfectly unnecessary piece of business -- of probable journeys and introductions , and then farewell was bidden , and Hepburn and Coulson were in the passage donning their wraps , and rather to their indignation , being assisted therein by Martha , who was accustomed to the office with her own master . 
William Coulson seemed sheepish and uncomfortable , but said nothing , leaving it as usual to Philip to be spokesman . 
Philip went to bed with that kind of humble penitent gratitude in his heart , which we sometimes feel after a sudden revulsion of feeling from despondency to hope . 
The night before it seemed as if all events were so arranged as to thwart him in his dearest wishes ; he felt now as if his discontent and repining , not twenty-four hours before , had been almost impious , so great was the change in his circumstances for the better . 
Now all seemed promising for the fulfilment of what he most desired . 
He was almost convinced that he was mistaken in thinking that Kinraid had had anything more than a sailor 's admiration for a pretty girl with regard to Sylvia ; at any rate he was going away to-morrow , in all probability not to return for another year -LRB- for Greenland ships left for the northern seas as soon as there was a chance of the ice being broken up -RRB- , and ere then he himself might speak out openly , laying before her parents all his fortunate prospects , and before her all his deep passionate love . 
So this night his prayers were more than the mere form that they had been the night before ; they were a vehement expression of gratitude to God for having , as it were , interfered on his behalf , to grant him the desire of his eyes and the lust of his heart . 
Philip little knew how Sylvia 's time had been passed that day . 
If he had he would have lain down this night with even a heavier heart than he had done on the last . 
Now , of late , it had seemed to the canny farm-servant pretty clear that Philip Hepburn was `` after her ; '' and to Philip , Kester had an instinctive objection , a kind of natural antipathy such as has existed in all ages between the dwellers in a town and those in the country , between agriculture and trade . 
So , while Kinraid and Sylvia kept up their half-tender , half-jesting conversation , Kester was making up his slow persistent mind as to the desirability of the young man then present as a husband for his darling , as much from his being other than Philip in every respect , as from the individual good qualities he possessed . 
She had been farm-servant to my mother 's brother -- James Hepburn , thy great-uncle as was ; she were a poor , friendless wench , a parish ` prentice , but honest and gaum-like , till a lad , as nobody knowed , come o'er the hills one sheep-shearing fra ' Whitehaven ; he had summat to do wi ' th ' sea , though not rightly to be called a sailor : and he made a deal on Nancy Hartley , just to beguile the time like ; and he went away and ne'er sent a thought after her more . 
Philip knew little of all this . 
He was very busy with facts and figures , doggedly fighting through the necessary business , and only now and then allowing himself the delicious relaxation of going to Haytersbank in an evening , to inquire after his aunt 's health , and to see Sylvia ; for the two Fosters were punctiliously anxious to make their shopmen test all their statements ; insisting on an examination of the stock , as if Hepburn and Coulson were strangers to the shop ; having the Monkshaven auctioneer in to appraise the fixtures , and necessary furniture ; going over the shop books for the last twenty years with their successors , an employment which took up evening after evening ; and not unfrequently taking one of the young men on the long commercial journeys which were tediously made in a gig . 
By degrees both Hepburn and Coulson were introduced to distant manufacturers and wholesale dealers . 
When Philip saw Sylvia she was always quiet and gentle ; perhaps more silent than she had been a year ago , and she did not attend so briskly to what was passing around her . 
She was rather thinner and paler ; but whatever change there was in her was always an improvement in Philip 's eyes , so long as she spoke graciously to him . 
He thought she was suffering from long-continued anxiety about her mother , or that she had too much to do ; and either cause was enough to make him treat her with a grave regard and deference which had a repressed tenderness in it , of which she , otherwise occupied , was quite unaware . 
She liked him better , too , than she had done a year or two before , because he did not show her any of the eager attention which teased her then , although its meaning was not fully understood . 
But it thus happened that they did not give the prompt assistance they were accustomed to render at such times ; and Coulson had been away on some of the new expeditions devolving on him and Philip as future partners . 
He took it , and three yards of you pink ribbon wi ' t ' black and yellow crosses on it , as Philip could never abide . 
Philip has got 'em i ' t ' book , if he 'll only look . '' 
`` Is he here again ? '' 
said Philip ; `` I did n't see him . 
What brings him here , where he 's noan wanted ? '' 
`` T ' shop were throng wi ' folk , '' said Hester , `` and he knew his own mind about the handkercher , and did n't tarry long . 
Just as he was leaving , his eye caught on t ' ribbon , and he came back for it . 
said Philip , surprised at William 's unusual manner , and , at the same time , rather gratified to find a reflection of his own feelings about Kinraid . 
asked Philip , eagerly . 
Out of respect to him , Philip asked no more questions , although there were many things that he fain would have known . 
Philip wished that it was not so late , or that very evening he would have gone to keep guard over Sylvia in her mother 's absence -- nay , perhaps he might have seen reason to give her a warning of some kind . 
But , if he had done so , it would have been locking the stable-door after the steed was stolen . 
Kinraid had turned his steps towards Haytersbank Farm as soon as ever he had completed his purchases . 
He had only come that afternoon to Monkshaven , and for the sole purpose of seeing Sylvia once more before he went to fulfil his engagement as specksioneer in the Urania , a whaling-vessel that was to sail from North Shields on Thursday morning , and this was Monday . 
Although none but the Fosters knew the cause of their impatience for their letters , yet there was such tacit sympathy between them and those whom they employed , that Hepburn , Coulson , and Hester were all much relieved when the old woman at length appeared with her basket of letters . 
Both Coulson and Philip felt that something unusual was going on , and were , perhaps , as full of consideration as to the possible contents of this London letter , as of attention to their more immediate business . 
Philip , indeed , was quite idle when John Foster opened the parlour-door , and , half doubtfully , called him into the room . 
A minute ago Philip and he were on a level of ignorance , from which the former was evidently going to be raised . 
But he soon returned to his usual state of acquiescence in things as they were , which was partly constitutional , and partly the result of his Quaker training . 
It was apparently by John Foster 's wish that Philip had been summoned . 
Jeremiah , the less energetic and decided brother , was still discussing the propriety of the step when Philip entered . 
It seemed from his account to Philip -LRB- explanatory of what he , in advance of his brother 's slower judgment , thought to be a necessary step -RRB- that the Fosters had for some time received anonymous letters , warning them , with distinct meaning , though in ambiguous terms , against a certain silk-manufacturer in Spitalfields , with whom they had had straightforward business dealings for many years ; but to whom they had latterly advanced money . 
After much perplexed consultation , John had hit upon the plan of sending Hepburn to London to make secret inquiries respecting the true character and commercial position of the man whose creditors , not a month ago , they had esteemed it an honour to be . 
Even now Jeremiah was ashamed of their want of confidence in one so good ; he believed that the information they had received would all prove a mistake , founded on erroneous grounds , if not a pure invention of an enemy ; and he had only been brought partially to consent to the sending of Hepburn , by his brother 's pledging himself that the real nature of Philip 's errand should be unknown to any human creature , save them three . 
As all this was being revealed to Philip , he sat apparently unmoved and simply attentive . 
In fact , he was giving all his mind to understanding the probabilities of the case , leaving his own feelings in the background till his intellect should have done its work . 
He said little ; but what he did say was to the point , and satisfied both brothers . 
John perceived that his messenger would exercise penetration and act with energy ; while Jeremiah was soothed by Philip 's caution in not hastily admitting the probability of any charge against Dickinson , and in giving full weight to his previous good conduct and good character . 
Philip had the satisfaction of feeling himself employed on a mission which would call out his powers , and yet not exceed them . 
In his own mind he forestalled the instructions of his masters , and was silently in advance of John Foster 's plans and arrangements , while he appeared to listen to all that was said with quiet business-like attention . 
Philip had never had so much in his hands before , and hesitated to take it , saying it was more than he should require ; but they repeated , with fresh urgency , their warnings about the terrible high prices of London , till he could only resolve to keep a strict account , and bring back all that he did not expend , since nothing but his taking the whole sum would satisfy his employers . 
When he was once more behind the counter , he had leisure enough for consideration as far as Coulson could give it him . 
The latter was silent , brooding over the confidence which Philip had apparently received , but which was withheld from him . 
He did not yet know of the culminating point -- of Philip 's proposed journey to London ; that great city of London , which , from its very inaccessibility fifty years ago , loomed so magnificent through the mist of men 's imaginations . 
It is not to be denied that Philip felt exultant at the mere fact of `` going to London . '' 
But then again , the thought of leaving Sylvia ; of going out of possible daily reach of her ; of not seeing her for a week -- a fortnight ; nay , he might be away for a month , -- for no rash hurry was to mar his delicate negotiation , -- gnawed at his heart , and spoilt any enjoyment he might have anticipated from gratified curiosity , or even from the consciousness of being trusted by those whose trust and regard he valued . 
The sense of what he was leaving grew upon him the longer he thought on the subject ; he almost wished that he had told his masters earlier in the conversation of his unwillingness to leave Monkshaven for so long a time ; and then again he felt that the gratitude he owed them quite prohibited his declining any task they might impose , especially as they had more than once said that it would not do for them to appear in the affair , and yet that to no one else could they entrust so difficult and delicate a matter . 
Several times that day , as he perceived Coulson 's jealous sullenness , he thought in his heart that the consequence of the excessive confidence for which Coulson envied him was a burden from which he would be thankful to be relieved . 
As they all sat at tea in Alice Rose 's house-place , Philip announced his intended journey ; a piece of intelligence he had not communicated earlier to Coulson because he rather dreaded the increase of dissatisfaction it was sure to produce , and of which he knew the expression would be restrained by the presence of Alice Rose and her daughter . 
Maybe it 's to try Philip he 's sent there ; happen it may be a fiery furnace to him ; for I 've heerd tell it 's full o ' temptations , and he may fall into sin -- and then where 'd be the ` luck ' on it ? 
`` It 's none o ' my doing , '' said Philip ; `` there 's business to be done , and John Foster says I 'm to do it ; and I 'm to start to-morrow . '' 
`` Niver fret thyself , mother , about t ' shirt , '' said Philip . 
`` They seem to make a deal o ' Philip all on a sudden , '' said Coulson . 
`` He 's sent for , and talked to i ' privacy , while Hester and me is left i ' t ' shop for t ' bear t ' brunt o ' t ' serving . '' 
`` Philip knows , '' said Hester , and then , somehow , her voice failed her and she stopped . 
Philip paid no attention to this half-uttered sentence ; he was eager to tell Coulson , as far as he could do so without betraying his master 's secret , how many drawbacks there were to his proposed journey , in the responsibility which it involved , and his unwillingness to leave Monkshaven : he said -- `` Coulson , I 'd give a deal it were thou that were going , and not me . 
`` Nay , William , '' said Philip , rising , `` it 's an ill look-out for the future , if thee and me is to quarrel , like two silly wenches , o'er each bit o ' pleasure , or what thou fancies to be pleasure , as falls in t ' way of either on us . 
He took his cap and was gone , not heeding Alice 's shrill inquiry as to his clothes and his ruffled shirt . 
she said ; `` Coulson , I 'd thought better of thee , going and doubting and envying Philip , as niver did thee an ill turn , or said an ill word , or thought an ill thought by thee ; and sending him away out o ' t ' house this last night of all , maybe , wi ' thy envyings and jealousy . '' 
Alice was away looking up Philip 's things for his journey . 
Philip walked rapidly up the hill-road towards Haytersbank . 
He was chafed and excited by Coulson 's words , and the events of the day . 
The thought of poor dead Annie Coulson flashed into Philip 's mind . 
Could he be playing the same game with Sylvia ? 
Philip set his teeth and tightened his lips at the thought of it . 
They had stopped talking , they had seen him already , or his impulse would have been to dodge behind the wall and avoid them ; even though one of his purposes in going to Haytersbank had been to bid his uncle farewell . 
Kinraid took him by surprise from the hearty greeting he gave him , and which Philip would fain have avoided . 
But the specksioneer was full of kindliness towards all the world , especially towards all Sylvia 's friends , and , convinced of her great love towards himself , had forgotten any previous jealousy of Philip . 
Secure and exultant , his broad , handsome , weather-bronzed face was as great a contrast to Philip 's long , thoughtful , sallow countenance , as his frank manner was to the other 's cold reserve . 
It was some minutes before Hepburn could bring himself to tell the great event that was about to befall him before this third person whom he considered as an intrusive stranger . 
But as Kinraid seemed to have no idea of going on , and as there really was no reason why he and all the world should not know of Philip 's intentions , he told his uncle that he was bound for London the next day on business connected with the Fosters . 
`` Nay , '' said Philip , `` I knew nought about it last night ; its none o ' my doing , going , for I 'd liefer ha ' stayed where I am . '' 
`` Yo 'll like it when once yo 're there , '' said Kinraid , with a travelled air of superiority , as Philip fancied . 
`` No , I sha n't , '' he replied , shortly . 
`` Yet I 'll be bound to say yo ' niver made a will before going to sea , '' said Philip , half smiling . 
Kinraid now seemed in a hurry ; but Philip was stung with curiosity to ascertain his movements , and suddenly addressed him : `` I heard yo ' were i ' these parts . 
There was a certain abruptness in Philip 's tone , if not in his words , which made Kinraid look in his face with surprise , and answer with equal curtness . 
He turned away , and began to whistle , as if he did not wish for any further conversation with his interrogator . 
Philip , indeed , had nothing more to say to him : he had learned all he wanted to know . 
he asked of her father . 
So they parted ; but Philip had not gone many steps before his uncle called him back , Kinraid slowly loitering on meanwhile . 
Robson was fumbling among some dirty papers he had in an old leather case , which he had produced out of his pocket . 
`` Fact is , Philip , t ' pleugh 's in a bad way , gearin ' and a ' , an ' folk is talkin ' on a new kind o ' mak ' ; and if thou 's bound for York -- '' `` I 'm not going by York ; I 'm going by a Newcastle smack . '' 
`` I see , '' said Philip , ``` Robinson , Side , Newcastle , can give all requisite information . ' '' 
Philip promised to do his best , and to write word to Robson , who , satisfied with his willingness to undertake the commission , bade him go on and see if he could not find the lass . 
`` Well , Philip ! 
asked Philip , reproachfully . 
It 's clean gone out of my mind , '' said Philip , with true regret . 
`` But I 've had a deal to think on , '' he continued , penitently , as if anxious to be forgiven . 
Sylvia did not want his penitence , did not care for her ribbon , was troubled by his earnestness of manner -- but he knew nothing of all that ; he only knew that she whom he loved had asked him to do something for her , and he had neglected it ; so , anxious to be excused and forgiven , he went on with the apology she cared not to hear . 
If she had been less occupied with her own affairs , less engrossed with deep feeling , she would have reproached him , if only in jest , for his carelessness . 
As it was , she scarcely took in the sense of his words . 
He paused a little . 
Sylvia 's galloping thoughts were pulled suddenly up by his silence ; she felt that he wanted her to say something , but she could think of nothing besides an ambiguous `` Well ? '' 
`` And I 'm off to London i ' t ' morning , '' added he , a little wistfully , almost as if beseeching her to show or express some sorrow at a journey , the very destination of which showed that he would be absent for some time . 
Surprise , and curiosity , and wonder ; nothing more , as Philip 's instinct told him . 
But he reasoned that first correct impression away with ingenious sophistry . 
Suddenly a light shone down into Philip 's mind . 
His voice was changed as he spoke next . 
And she eyed him defiantly , though in her heart she trembled , she knew not why . 
At the time , in his agitation , he saw , but did not affix any meaning to it , that the half of some silver coin was among the contents thus turned over before the box was locked . 
`` I niver telled a lie i ' my life , '' said Philip , almost choking with grief at her manner to him , and the regard for his rival which she betrayed . 
Philip tried to keep calm , and to explain . 
`` It were yo ' r own mother , Sylvia , as knowed yo ' had no brother , or any one to see after yo ' ; and yo ' so pretty , so pretty , Sylvia , '' he continued , shaking his head , sadly , `` that men run after yo ' against their will , as one may say ; and yo ' r mother bade me watch o'er ye and see what company yo ' kept , and who was following after yo ' , and to warn yo ' , if need were . '' 
`` Sylvie , Sylvie , '' cried poor Philip , as his offended cousin rushed past him , and upstairs to her little bed-room , where he heard the sound of the wooden bolt flying into its place . 
He could hear her feet pacing quickly about through the unceiled rafters . 
He sate still in despair , his head buried in his two hands . 
He sate till it grew dusk , dark ; the wood fire , not gathered together by careful hands , died out into grey ashes . 
There were but Philip and Sylvia in the house . 
He knew he ought to be going home , for he had much to do , and many arrangements to make . 
Yet it seemed as though he could not stir . 
At length he raised his stiffened body , and stood up , dizzy . 
Up the little wooden stairs he went , where he had never been before , to the small square landing , almost filled up with the great chest for oat-cake . 
He breathed hard for a minute , and then knocked at the door of Sylvia 's room . 
I shall be a long time away ; perhaps I may niver come back at all ; '' here he bitterly thought of an unregarded death . 
He waited patiently . 
Can she be wearied out , and gone to sleep , he wondered . 
With a heavy , heavy heart he creaked down the stairs , felt for his cap , and left the house . 
`` She 's warned , any way , '' thought he . 
Just at that moment the little casement window of Sylvia 's room was opened , and she said -- `` Good-by , Philip ! '' 
Philip knew the uselessness of remaining ; the need for his departure ; and yet he stood still for a little time like one entranced , as if his will had lost all power to compel him to leave the place . 
Those two words of hers , which two hours before would have been so far beneath his aspirations , had now power to re-light hope , to quench reproach or blame . 
`` She 's but a young lassie , '' said he to himself ; `` an ' Kinraid has been playing wi ' her , as such as he ca n't help doing , once they get among t ' women . 
I could n't ha ' left the place to-morrow if he 'd been biding here ; but he 's off for half a year or so , and I 'll be home again as soon as iver I can . 
In half a year such as he forgets , if iver he 's thought serious about her ; but in a ' my lifetime , if I live to fourscore , I can niver forget . 
God bless her for saying , ` Good-by , Philip . ' 
`` He repeated the words aloud in fond mimicry of her tones : `` Good-by , Philip . '' 
It was long since Philip had tasted the freshness of the early air on the shore , or in the country , as his employment at the shop detained him in Monkshaven till the evening . 
And as he turned down the quays -LRB- or staithes -RRB- on the north side of the river , towards the shore , and met the fresh sea-breeze blowing right in his face , it was impossible not to feel bright and elastic . 
With his knapsack slung over his shoulder , he was prepared for a good stretch towards Hartlepool , whence a coach would take him to Newcastle before night . 
Philip walked on pretty briskly , unconsciously enjoying the sunny landscape before him ; the crisp curling waves rushing almost up to his feet , on his right hand , and then swishing back over the fine small pebbles into the great swelling sea . 
To his left were the cliffs rising one behind another , having deep gullies here and there between , with long green slopes upward from the land , and then sudden falls of brown and red soil or rock deepening to a yet greater richness of colour at their base towards the blue ocean before him . 
The loud , monotonous murmur of the advancing and receding waters lulled him into dreaminess ; the sunny look of everything tinged his day-dreams with hope . 
So he trudged merrily over the first mile or so ; not an obstacle to his measured pace on the hard , level pavement ; not a creature to be seen since he had left the little gathering of bare-legged urchins dabbling in the sea-pools near Monkshaven . 
The cares of land were shut out by the glorious barrier of rocks before him . 
Flocks of seagulls hovered about the edge of the waves , slowly rising and turning their white under-plumage to glimmer in the sunlight as Philip approached . 
The whole scene was so peaceful , so soothing , that it dispelled the cares and fears -LRB- too well founded in fact -RRB- which had weighed down on his heart during the dark hours of the past night . 
He half thought of gathering Sylvia a posy of them , and rushing up to the farm to make a little farewell peace-offering . 
But on looking at his watch , he put all thoughts of such an action out of his head ; it was above an hour later than he had supposed , and he must make all haste on to Hartlepool . 
Just as he was approaching this gully , a man came dashing down , and ran out some way upon the sand with the very force of his descent ; then he turned to the left and took the direction of Hartlepool a hundred yards or so in advance of Philip . 
By the peculiar lurch in his walk -- by everything -- Philip knew it was the specksioneer , Kinraid . 
Philip slackened his pace , keeping under the shadow of the rock . 
Hepburn paused when he paused , but as intently as he looked at some object above , so intently did Hepburn look at him . 
No need to ascertain by sight towards whom his looks , his thoughts were directed . 
He took off his hat and waved it , touching one part of it as if with particular meaning . 
When he turned away at last , Hepburn heaved a heavy sigh , and crept yet more into the cold dank shadow of the cliffs . 
Each step was now a heavy task , his sad heart tired and weary . 
After a while he climbed up a few feet , so as to mingle his form yet more completely with the stones and rocks around . 
Stumbling over the uneven and often jagged points , slipping on the sea-weed , plunging into little pools of water left by the ebbing tide in some natural basins , he yet kept his eyes fixed as if in fascination on Kinraid , and made his way almost alongside of him . 
But the last hour had pinched Hepburn 's features into something of the wan haggardness they would wear when he should first be lying still for ever . 
Hepburn knew that here they both must take a path leading inland to a narrow foot-bridge about a quarter of a mile up the stream ; indeed from this point , owing to the jutting out of the rocks , the land path was the shortest ; and this way lay by the water-side at an angle right below the cliff to which Hepburn 's steps were leading him . 
He knew that on this long level field path he might easily be seen by any one following ; nay , if he followed any one at a short distance , for it was full of turnings ; and he resolved , late as he was , to sit down for a while till Kinraid was far enough in advance for him to escape being seen . 
He came up to the last rock behind which he could be concealed ; seven or eight feet above the stream he stood , and looked cautiously for the specksioneer . 
Up by the rushing stream he looked , then right below . 
`` It is God 's providence , '' he murmured . 
He crouched down where he had been standing and covered his face with his hands . 
He tried to deafen as well as to blind himself , that he might neither hear nor see anything of the coming event of which he , an inhabitant of Monkshaven at that day , well understood the betokening signs . 
He came along now nearing the rocks . 
By this time he was sufficiently buoyant to whistle to himself . 
It steeled Philip 's heart to what was coming to hear his rival whistling , `` Weel may the keel row , '' so soon after parting with Sylvia . 
The instant Kinraid turned the corner of the cliff , the ambush was upon him . 
Four man-of-war 's men sprang on him and strove to pinion him . 
Hepburn heard loud pants of breath , great thuds , the dull struggle of limbs on the sand , the growling curses of those who thought to have managed their affair more easily ; the sudden cry of some one wounded , not Kinraid he knew , Kinraid would have borne any pain in silence at such a moment ; another wrestling , swearing , infuriated strife , and then a strange silence . 
Hepburn sickened at the heart ; was then his rival dead ? 
had he left this bright world ? 
lost his life -- his love ? 
For an instant Hepburn felt guilty of his death ; he said to himself he had never wished him dead , and yet in the struggle he had kept aloof , and now it might be too late for ever . 
Philip could not bear the suspense ; he looked stealthily round the corner of the rock behind which he had been hidden , and saw that they had overpowered Kinraid , and , too exhausted to speak , were binding him hand and foot to carry him to their boat . 
Kinraid lay as still as any hedgehog : he rolled when they pushed him ; he suffered himself to be dragged without any resistance , any motion ; the strong colour brought into his face while fighting was gone now , his countenance was livid pale ; his lips were tightly held together , as if it cost him more effort to be passive , wooden , and stiff in their hands than it had done to fight and struggle with all his might . 
His eyes seemed the only part about him that showed cognizance of what was going on . 
Without a motion of his head , he was perceiving and taking in everything while he lay bound at the bottom of the boat . 
He moved his head a little , so as to turn towards Haytersbank , where Sylvia must be quickly , if sadly , going about her simple daily work ; and then his quick eye caught Hepburn 's face , blanched with excitement rather than fear , watching eagerly from behind the rock , where he had sat breathless during the affray and the impressment of his rival . 
shouted the specksioneer as soon as he saw Philip , heaving and writhing his body the while with so much vigour that the sailors started away from the work they were engaged in about the boat , and held him down once more , as if afraid he should break the strong rope that held him like withes of green flax . 
His mighty wish was to call Hepburn near that he might send some message by him to Sylvia . 
`` Come here , Hepburn , '' he cried again , falling back this time so weak and exhausted that the man-of-war 's men became sympathetic . 
`` I 'm not afeared , '' said Philip ; `` I 'm no sailor for yo ' t ' impress me : nor have yo ' any right to take that fellow ; he 's a Greenland specksioneer , under protection , as I know and can testify . '' 
Philip was coming towards them slowly , not from want of activity , but because he was undecided what he should be called upon to do or to say by the man whom he hated and dreaded , yet whom just now he could not help admiring . 
`` His Majesty is n't a schoolmaster to need scholars ; but a jolly good captain to need men , '' replied the leader of the gang , eyeing Philip nevertheless , and questioning within himself how far , with only two other available men , they durst venture on his capture as well as the specksioneer 's . 
It might be done , he thought , even though there was this powerful captive aboard , and the boat to manage too ; but , running his eye over Philip 's figure , he decided that the tall stooping fellow was never cut out for a sailor , and that he should get small thanks if he captured him , to pay him for the possible risk of losing the other . 
`` You fellow would n't have been worth his grog this many a day , and be d -- d to you , '' said he , catching Hepburn by the shoulder , and giving him a push . 
Philip stumbled over something in this , his forced run . 
He looked down ; his foot had caught in Kinraid 's hat , which had dropped off in the previous struggle . 
In the band that went round the low crown , a ribbon was knotted ; a piece of that same ribbon which Philip had chosen out , with such tender hope , to give to Sylvia for the Corneys ' party on New Year 's Eve . 
He knew every delicate thread that made up the briar-rose pattern ; and a spasm of hatred towards Kinraid contracted his heart . 
He had been almost relenting into pity for the man captured before his eyes ; now he abhorred him . 
The sailors , who had begun to take him into favour , were all agog with curiosity to hear the message to his sweetheart , which they believed he was going to send . 
Hepburn 's perceptions , quickened with his vehement agitation of soul , were aware of this feeling of theirs ; and it increased his rage against Kinraid , who had exposed the idea of Sylvia to be the subject of ribald whispers . 
But the specksioneer cared little what others said or thought about the maiden , whom he yet saw before his closed eyelids as she stood watching him , from the Haytersbank gully , waving her hands , her handkerchief , all in one passionate farewell . 
asked Hepburn at last , in a gloomy tone . 
If he could have helped it , he would have kept silence till Kinraid spoke first ; but he could no longer endure the sailors ' nudges , and winks , and jests among themselves . 
Philip hated him in his heart . 
Kinraid hardly heard him . 
He was growing faint with the heavy blows he had received , the stunning fall he had met with , and the reaction from his dogged self-control at first . 
Philip did not speak nor move . 
Philip said something inarticulately . 
`` Yo 'll have yo ' r hands full then , '' muttered Philip , his passion boiling over at the thought of having been chosen out from among all men to convey such a message as Kinraid 's to Sylvia . 
Philip turned away ; Kinraid raised himself and cried after him , -- `` Hepburn , Hepburn ! 
tell her -- '' what he added Philip could not hear , for the words were lost before they reached him in the outward noise of the regular splash of the oars and the rush of the wind down the gully , with which mingled the closer sound that filled his ears of his own hurrying blood surging up into his brain . 
He was conscious that he had said something in reply to Kinraid 's adjuration that he would deliver his message to Sylvia , at the very time when Carter had stung him into fresh anger by the allusion to the possibility of the specksioneer 's `` running after other girls , '' for , for an instant , Hepburn had been touched by the contrast of circumstances . 
But Hepburn began to wonder what he himself had said -- how much of a promise he had made to deliver those last passionate words of Kinraid 's . 
He could not recollect how much , how little he had said ; he knew he had spoken hoarsely and low almost at the same time as Carter had uttered his loud joke . 
Hepburn felt insecure , as in a nightmare dream , so long as the boat did not reach her immediate destination . 
His contracted eyes could see four minute figures rowing with ceaseless motion , and a fifth sate at the helm . 
But he knew there was a sixth , unseen , lying , bound and helpless , at the bottom of the boat ; and his fancy kept expecting this man to start up and break his bonds , and overcome all the others , and return to the shore -- free and triumphant . 
It was by no fault of Hepburn 's that the boat sped well away ; that she was now alongside the tender , dancing on the waves ; now emptied of her crew ; now hoisted up to her place . 
No fault of his ! 
and yet it took him some time before he could reason himself into the belief that his mad , feverish wishes not an hour before -- his wild prayer to be rid of his rival , as he himself had scrambled onward over the rocks alongside of Kinraid 's path on the sands -- had not compelled the event . 
`` Anyhow , '' thought he , as he rose up , `` my prayer is granted . 
Once more he looked out towards the ship . 
He saw that he had been delayed on his road , and had lingered long . 
He shook his stiffened limbs , shouldered his knapsack , and prepared to walk on to Hartlepool as swiftly as he could . 
Philip was too late for the coach he had hoped to go by , but there was another that left at night , and which reached Newcastle in the forenoon , so that , by the loss of a night 's sleep , he might overtake his lost time . 
But , restless and miserable , he could not stop in Hartlepool longer than to get some hasty food at the inn from which the coach started . 
Still Hepburn was rather repelled by the appearance of the sailors who sate drinking in the bar , and he asked , in a low voice , if there was not another room . 
Hepburn went to a separate table , away from the roaring fire , which on this cold March evening was the great attraction , and called for food and drink . 
Then seeing that the other men were eyeing him with the social idea of speaking to him , he asked for pen and ink and paper , with the intention of defeating their purpose by pre-occupation on his part . 
But when the paper came , the new pen , the unused thickened ink , he hesitated long before he began to write ; and at last he slowly put down the words , -- `` Dear and honoured Uncle , '' -- There was a pause ; his meal was brought and hastily swallowed . 
Even while he was eating it he kept occasionally touching up the letters of these words . 
When he had drunk a glass of ale he began again to write ; fluently this time , for he was giving an account of the plough . 
Then came another long stop ; he was weighing in his own mind what he should say about Kinraid . 
Once he thought for a second of writing to Sylvia herself , and telling her -- how much ? 
She might treasure up her lover 's words like grains of gold , while they were lighter than dust in their meaning to Philip 's mind ; words which such as the specksioneer used as counters to beguile and lead astray silly women . 
It was for him to prove his constancy by action ; and the chances of his giving such proof were infinitesimal in Philip 's estimation . 
That would have been the natural course of things , remembering that the last time Philip had seen either , they were in each other 's company . 
Twenty times he put his pen to the paper with the intention of relating briefly the event that had befallen Kinraid ; and as often he stopped as though the first word would be irrevocable . 
While he thus sate pen in hand , thinking himself wiser than conscience , and looking on beyond the next step which she bade him take into an indefinite future , he caught some fragments of the sailors ' talk at the other end of the room , which made him listen to their words . 
They were speaking of that very Kinraid , the thought of whom filled his own mind like an actual presence . 
In a rough , careless way they spoke of the specksioneer , with admiration enough for his powers as a sailor and harpooner ; and from that they passed on to jesting mention of his power amongst women , and one or two girls ' names were spoken of in connection with him . 
Hepburn silently added Annie Coulson and Sylvia Robson to this list , and his cheeks turned paler as he did so . 
Long after they had done speaking about Kinraid , after they had paid their shot , and gone away , he sate in the same attitude , thinking bitter thoughts . 
All night long Hepburn wearied himself with passionate tossings , prompted by stinging recollection . 
Towards morning he fell into a dead sound sleep . 
He was roused by a hasty knocking at the door . 
It was broad full daylight ; he had overslept himself , and the smack was leaving by the early tide . 
He was even now summoned on board . 
He dressed , wafered his letter , and rushed with it to the neighbouring post-office ; and , without caring to touch the breakfast for which he paid , he embarked . 
Once on board , he experienced the relief which it always is to an undecided man , and generally is at first to any one who has been paltering with duty , when circumstances decide for him . 
And so Philip sailed out of the mouth of the Tyne on to the great open sea . 
It would be a week before the smack reached London , even if she pursued a tolerably straight course , but she had to keep a sharp look-out after possible impressment of her crew ; and it was not until after many dodges and some adventures that , at the end of a fortnight from the time of his leaving Monkshaven , Philip found himself safely housed in London , and ready to begin the delicate piece of work which was given him to do . 
He felt himself fully capable of unravelling each clue to information , and deciding on the value of the knowledge so gained . 
But during the leisure of the voyage he had wisely determined to communicate everything he learnt about Dickinson , in short , every step he took in the matter , by letter to his employers . 
And thus his mind both in and out of his lodgings might have appeared to have been fully occupied with the concerns of others . 
But there were times when the miserable luxury of dwelling upon his own affairs was his -- when he lay down in his bed till he fell into restless sleep -- when the point to which his steps tended in his walks was ascertained . 
Then he gave himself up to memory , and regret which often deepened into despair , and but seldom was cheered by hope . 
He grew so impatient of the ignorance in which he was kept -- for in those days of heavy postage any correspondence he might have had on mere Monkshaven intelligence was very limited -- as to the affairs at Haytersbank , that he cut out an advertisement respecting some new kind of plough , from a newspaper that lay in the chop-house where he usually dined , and rising early the next morning he employed the time thus gained in going round to the shop where these new ploughs were sold . 
That night he wrote another letter to Daniel Robson , with a long account of the merits of the implements he had that day seen . 
When this letter was despatched , Hepburn began to wonder what he had hoped for in writing it . 
He knew that Daniel could write -- or rather that he could make strange hieroglyphics , the meaning of which puzzled others and often himself ; but these pen-and-ink signs were seldom employed by Robson , and never , so far as Philip knew , for the purpose of letter-writing . 
But still he craved so for news of Sylvia -- even for a sight of paper which she had seen , and perhaps touched -- that he thought all his trouble about the plough -LRB- to say nothing of the one-and-twopence postage which he had prepaid in order to make sure of his letter 's reception in the frugal household at Haytersbank -RRB- well lost for the mere chance of his uncle 's caring enough for the intelligence to write in reply , or even to get some friend to write an answer ; for in such case , perhaps , Philip might see her name mentioned in some way , even though it was only that she sent her duty to him . 
Philip heard , it is true , from his employers pretty frequently on business ; and he felt sure they would have named it , if any ill had befallen his uncle 's family , for they knew of the relationship and of his intimacy there . 
They generally ended their formal letters with as formal a summary of Monkshaven news ; but there was never a mention of the Robsons , and that of itself was well , but it did not soothe Philip 's impatient curiosity . 
He had never confided his attachment to his cousin to any one , it was not his way ; but he sometimes thought that if Coulson had not taken his present appointment to a confidential piece of employment so ill , he would have written to him and asked him to go up to Haytersbank Farm , and let him know how they all were . 
Hepburn 's baulked hope was the Mordecai sitting in Haman 's gate ; all his success in his errand to London , his well-doing in worldly affairs , was tasteless , and gave him no pleasure because of this blank and void of all intelligence concerning Sylvia . 
And yet he came back with a letter from the Fosters in his pocket , curt , yet expressive of deep gratitude for his discreet services in London ; and at another time -- in fact , if Philip 's life had been ordered differently to what it was -- it might have given this man a not unworthy pleasure to remember that , without a penny of his own , simply by diligence , honesty , and faithful quick-sightedness as to the interests of his masters , he had risen to hold the promise of being their successor , and to be ranked by them as a trusted friend . 
As the Newcastle smack neared the shore on her voyage home , Hepburn looked wistfully out for the faint grey outline of Monkshaven Priory against the sky , and the well-known cliffs ; as if the masses of inanimate stone could tell him any news of Sylvia . 
Yet , from some insurmountable feeling , Philip avoided all mention of the family who were the principal bond between the honest farmer and himself . 
He did not know why , but he could not bear the shock of first hearing her name in the open street , or in the rough public-house . 
And thus he shrank from the intelligence he craved to hear . 
Thus he knew no more about the Robsons when he returned to Monkshaven , than he had done on the day when he had last seen them ; and , of course , his first task there was to give a long vivâ voce account of all his London proceedings to the two brothers Foster , who , considering that they had heard the result of everything by letter , seemed to take an insatiable interest in details . 
He could hardly tell why , but even when released from the Fosters ' parlour , he was unwilling to go to Haytersbank Farm . 
Perhaps it was because Hepburn was still in his travel-stained dress ; having gone straight to the shop on his arrival in Monkshaven . 
Perhaps it was because , if he went this night for the short half-hour intervening before bed-time , he would have no excuse for paying a longer visit on the following evening . 
At any rate , he proceeded straight to Alice Rose 's , as soon as he had finished his interview with his employers . 
Coulson was sorry for his former ungenerous reception of the news that Philip was going to London ; Hester and her mother each secretly began to feel as if this evening was like more happy evenings of old , before the Robsons came to Haytersbank Farm ; and who knows what faint delicious hopes this resemblance may not have suggested ? 
While Philip , restless and excited , feeling that he could not sleep , was glad to pass away the waking hours that must intervene before to-morrow night , at times , he tried to make them talk of what had happened in Monkshaven during his absence , but all had gone on in an eventless manner , as far as he could gather ; if they knew of anything affecting the Robsons , they avoided speaking of it to him ; and , indeed , how little likely were they ever to have heard their names while he was away ? 
Philip walked towards the Robsons ' farm like a man in a dream , who has everything around him according to his wish , and yet is conscious of a secret mysterious inevitable drawback to his enjoyment . 
Hepburn did not care to think -- would not realize what this drawback , which need not have been mysterious in his case , was . 
The spring sights and sounds were all about ; the lambs were bleating out their gentle weariness before they sank to rest by the side of their mothers ; the linnets were chirping in every bush of golden gorse that grew out of the stone walls ; the lark was singing her good-night in the cloudless sky , before she dropped down to her nest in the tender green wheat ; all spoke of brooding peace -- but Philip 's heart was not at peace . 
Yet he was going to proclaim his good fortune . 
His masters had that day publicly announced that Coulson and he were to be their successors , and he had now arrived at that longed-for point in his business , when he had resolved to openly speak of his love to Sylvia , and might openly strive to gain her love . 
Philip took upon himself to decide that , with such a man as the specksioneer , absence was equivalent to faithless forgetfulness . 
He thought that he had just grounds for this decision in the account he had heard of Kinraid 's behaviour to Annie Coulson ; to the other nameless young girl , her successor in his fickle heart ; in the ribald talk of the sailors in the Newcastle public-house . 
And Philip would be patient and enduring ; all the time watching over her , and labouring to win her reluctant love . 
He saw her as he stood at the top of the little hill-path leading down to the Robsons ' door . 
How well Philip knew that garden ; placed long ago by some tenant of the farm on a southern slope ; walled in with rough moorland stones ; planted with berrybushes for use , and southernwood and sweet-briar for sweetness of smell . 
When the Robsons had first come to Haytersbank , and Sylvia was scarcely more than a pretty child , how well he remembered helping her with the arrangement of this garden ; laying out his few spare pence in hen-and-chicken daisies at one time , in flower-seeds at another ; again in a rose-tree in a pot . 
He knew how his unaccustomed hands had laboured with the spade at forming a little primitive bridge over the beck in the hollow before winter streams should make it too deep for fording ; how he had cut down branches of the mountain-ash and covered them over , yet decked with their scarlet berries , with sods of green turf , beyond which the brilliancy crept out ; but now it was months and years since he had been in that garden , which had lost its charm for Sylvia , as she found the bleak sea-winds came up and blighted all endeavours at cultivating more than the most useful things -- pot-herbs , marigolds , potatoes , onions , and such-like . 
He began to wish she would move -- would look at him -- but any way that she would move , and not stand gazing thus over that great dreary sea . 
He went down the path with an impatient step , and entered the house-place . 
There sat his aunt spinning , and apparently as well as ever . 
He could hear his uncle talking to Kester in the neighbouring shippen ; all was well in the household . 
said his aunt , as she stood up to welcome him back . 
`` Not yet , '' said Philip , stopping her in her progress towards the door . 
Mind him ! 
As if he could forget him . 
I do n't understand , '' said Philip , in strange bewilderment . 
If not , how should they know he was dead ? 
Missing he might be , though how this should be known was strange , as he was supposed to be sailing to the Greenland seas . 
At Philip 's worst moment of hatred he had hardly dared to wish him dead . 
said Philip . 
said Philip , feeling guiltily disappointed at his aunt 's story . 
Philip could not answer ; did not hear . 
His soul had gone out to meet Sylvia , who entered with quiet slowness quite unlike her former self . 
Her face was wan and white ; her grey eyes seemed larger , and full of dumb tearless sorrow ; she came up to Philip , as if his being there touched her with no surprise , and gave him a gentle greeting as if he were a familiar indifferent person whom she had seen but yesterday . 
Philip , who had recollected the quarrel they had had , and about Kinraid too , the very last time they had met , had expected some trace of this remembrance to linger in her looks and speech to him . 
His mother looked at her anxiously , and then said in the same manner of forced cheerfulness which she had used before , `` Here 's Philip , lass , a ' full o ' Lunnon ; call thy father in , an ' we 'll hear a ' about t ' newfangled pleughs . 
Bell Robson leant forward towards Philip , misinterpreting the expression on his face , which was guilt as much as sympathy , and checked the possible repentance which might have urged him on at that moment to tell all he knew , by saying , `` Lad ! 
Robson bustled in with loud welcome ; all the louder and more talkative because he , like his wife , assumed a cheerful manner before Sylvia . 
Yet he , unlike his wife , had many a secret regret over Kinraid 's fate . 
At first , while merely the fact of his disappearance was known , Daniel Robson had hit on the truth , and had stuck to his opinion that the cursed press-gang were at the bottom of it . 
To-night he would have her sit by him while Philip told his stories , or heavily answered questions put to him . 
Sylvia sat on a stool by her father 's knee holding one of his hands in both of hers ; and presently she laid down her head upon them , and Philip saw her sad eyes looking into the flickering fire-light with long unwinking stare , showing that her thoughts were far distant . 
He could hardly go on with his tales of what he had seen , and what done , he was so full of pity for her . 
Yet , for all his pity , he had now resolved never to soothe her with the knowledge of what he knew , nor to deliver the message sent by her false lover . 
For months Philip had been looking forward to the sensation which the intelligence would produce in the farm household , as a preliminary to laying his good fortune at Sylvia 's feet . 
And they heard of it , and he away , and all chance of his making use of it in the manner he had intended vanished for the present . 
asked he , almost before he had taken off his coat , on the day when he had heard of Philip 's promotion in the world . 
`` Why , missus , thy nephew , Philip Hepburn , has got his name up i ' gold letters four inch long o'er Fosters ' door ! 
Him and Coulson has set up shop together , and Fosters is gone out ! '' 
`` That 's t ' secret of his journey t ' Lunnon , '' said Bell , more gratified than she chose to show . 
It 'll be a matter o ' some hundreds a year i ' Philip 's pocket . '' 
But she went on rather more quickly than she would otherwise have done to question her husband as to all he knew about this great rise of Philip 's . 
By-and-by Daniel broke the silence by saying , `` A thowt at one time as Philip had a fancy for our Sylvie . '' 
A only said as a 'd thowt once as Philip had a fancy for our lass , and a think so still ; and he 'll be worth his two hunder a year afore long . 
There were many domestic arrangements to be made in connection with the new commercial ones which affected Hepburn and Coulson . 
The Fosters , with something of the busybodiness which is apt to mingle itself with kindly patronage , had planned in their own minds that the Rose household should be removed altogether to the house belonging to the shop ; and that Alice , with the assistance of the capable servant , who , at present , managed all John 's domestic affairs , should continue as mistress of the house , with Philip and Coulson for her lodgers . 
Why , Hepburn and Coulson were both young men , she said , and they were as likely to marry as not ; and then the bride would be sure to wish to live in the good old-fashioned house at the back of the shop . 
It was in vain she was told by every one concerned , that , in case of such an event , the first married partner should take a house of his own , leaving her in undisputed possession . 
`` Thou 'll not have been understanding why Alice Rose spoke as she did this morning , '' said Jeremiah Foster to Philip , on the afternoon succeeding the final discussion of this plan . 
Thee and Coulson should have a try for Hester , Philip . 
I told him first because he is my wife 's nephew ; but I tell thee now , Philip . 
Philip reddened . 
Often as the idea of marriage had come into his mind , this was the first time it had been gravely suggested to him by another . 
But he replied quietly enough . 
`` Alice 's husband was dead before I knew her , '' said Philip , rather evading the main subject . 
Philip fell to thinking ; a generation ago something of the same kind had been going on as that which he was now living through , quick with hopes and fears . 
A girl beloved by two -- nay , those two so identical in occupation as he and Kinraid were -- Rose identical even in character with what he knew of the specksioneer ; a girl choosing the wrong lover , and suffering and soured all her life in consequence of her youth 's mistake ; was that to be Sylvia 's lot ? 
Perplexed thoughts of this and a similar kind kept returning into Philip 's mind whenever he had leisure to give himself up to consideration of anything but the immediate throng of business . 
And every time he dwelt on this complication and succession of similar events , he emerged from his reverie more and more satisfied with the course he had taken in withholding from Sylvia all knowledge of her lover 's fate . 
It was settled at length that Philip was to remove to the house belonging to the shop , Coulson remaining with Alice and her daughter . 
`` I wish yo ' could find out what she has again me , Philip , '' said Coulson , about a fortnight after he had made the proposal . 
The poor young man thought that Hester 's composure of manner towards him since the event argued that he was not distasteful to her ; and as he was now on very happy terms with Philip , he came constantly to him , as if the latter could interpret the meaning of all the little occurrences between him and his beloved . 
There 's nought between yo ' and her , is there , Philip ? '' 
`` Do n't be vexed , Philip ; if thou knew what it was to be in love , thou 'd be always fancying things , just as I am . '' 
`` I might be , '' said Philip ; `` but I dunnot think I should be always talking about my fancies . '' 
Just ask her , Philip . '' 
`` It 's an awkward thing for me to be melling wi ' , '' said Hepburn , reluctantly . 
`` Well , well , '' replied Philip , `` I 'll see what I can do ; but , lad , I dunnot think she 'll have thee . 
But somehow Philip could not begin on the subject with Hester . 
He did not know why , except that , as he said , `` it was so awkward . '' 
But he really liked Coulson so much as to be anxious to do what the latter wished , although he was almost convinced that it would be of no use . 
So he watched his opportunity , and found Alice alone and at leisure one Sunday evening . 
She was sitting by the window , reading her Bible , when he went in . 
She gave him a curt welcome , hearty enough for her , for she was always chary in her expressions of pleasure or satisfaction . 
But she took off her horn spectacles and placed them in the book to keep her place ; and then turning more fully round on her chair , so as to face him , she said , `` Well , lad ! 
`` I 'd a deal rayther hear fra ' thee , Philip . 
`` I know who I 'd sooner back in many a thing , Philip ! '' 
She said it with so much meaning that he could not fail to understand that he himself was meant , and he replied , ingenuously enough , `` If yo ' mean me , mother , I 'll noane deny that in a thing or two I may be more knowledgeable than Coulson . 
said Philip , quickly . 
asked Alice , her deep eyes gleaming at him as if to read his face as well as his words . 
Philip , thinking he could now do what Coulson had begged of him in the neatest manner , went on , `` I told him I 'd help him all as I could -- '' `` Thou did , did thou ? 
`` -- but that fancy had three parts to do wi ' love , '' continued Philip , `` and it would be hard , maybe , to get a reason for her not fancying him . 
asked Philip . 
Then , receiving no answer , he went on , `` He loves her true , and he 's within a month or two on her age , and his character will bear handling on a ' sides ; and his share on t ' shop will be worth hundreds a year afore long . '' 
`` Maybe yo 'll speak a word for him , mother , '' said Philip , annoyed at her silence . 
While she was adjusting her spectacles on her nose , with hands trembling with passion , she heard Philip say , -- `` I ask yo ' r pardon , I 'm sure . 
Philip reddened ; in fact , he had forgotten how he had got to consider his frequent visits to the farm as a regular piece of occupation . 
He kept silence . 
Alice looked at him with a sharp intelligence that read his silence through . 
So Philip returned from his mission rather crestfallen , but quite as far as ever from `` seeing through a glass window . '' 
But it ended successfully ; and before the first snow fell , Philip was best man at his partner 's wedding . 
But before Coulson was married , many small events happened -- small events to all but Philip . 
To him they were as the sun and moon . 
The days when he went up to Haytersbank and Sylvia spoke to him , the days when he went up and she had apparently no heart to speak to any one , but left the room as soon as he came , or never entered it at all , although she must have known that he was there -- these were his alternations from happiness to sorrow . 
From her parents he always had a welcome . 
The thread of friendship might be joined afresh at any time , only just now it was broken ; and Philip was glad of it . 
Before going to Haytersbank he sought each time for some little present with which to make his coming welcome . 
And now he wished even more than ever that Sylvia had cared for learning ; if she had he could have taken her many a pretty ballad , or story-book , such as were then in vogue . 
He did try her with the translation of the Sorrows of Werther , so popular at the time that it had a place in all pedlars ' baskets , with Law 's Serious Call , the Pilgrim 's Progress , Klopstock 's Messiah , and Paradise Lost . 
But she could not read it for herself ; and after turning the leaves languidly over , and smiling a little at the picture of Charlotte cutting bread and butter in a left-handed manner , she put it aside on the shelf by the Complete Farrier ; and there Philip saw it , upside down and untouched , the next time he came to the farm . 
Many a time during that summer did he turn to the few verses in Genesis in which Jacob 's twice seven years ' service for Rachel is related , and try and take fresh heart from the reward which came to the patriarch 's constancy at last . 
Now look at Philip , what a different one he is ! 
Philip was gaining ground with Daniel , and that was something towards winning Sylvia 's heart ; for she was unaware of her father 's change of feeling towards Kinraid , and took all his tenderness towards herself as if they were marks of his regard for her lost lover and his sympathy in her loss , instead of which he was rather feeling as if it might be a good thing after all that the fickle-hearted sailor was dead and drowned . 
Love to Sylvia gave Philip tact . 
He seemed to find out that to please the women of the household he must pay all possible attention to the man ; and though he cared little in comparison for Daniel , yet this autumn he was continually thinking of how he could please him . 
Then in his dreams he saw Kinraid again , sometimes struggling , sometimes sailing towards land , the only one on board a swift advancing ship , alone on deck , stern and avenging ; till Philip awoke in remorseful terror . 
When first Philip had heard in his shop that these three men-of-war might be seen lying fell and still on the grey horizon , his heart sank , and he scarcely dared to ask their names . 
For if one should be the Alcestis ; if Kinraid should send word to Sylvia ; if he should say he was living , and loving , and faithful ; if it should come to pass that the fact of the undelivered message sent by her lover through Philip should reach Sylvia 's ears : what would be the position of the latter , not merely in her love -- that , of course , would be hopeless -- but in her esteem ? 
All sophistry vanished , the fear of detection awakened Philip to a sense of guilt ; and , besides , he found out , that in spite of all idle talk and careless slander , he could not help believing that Kinraid was in terrible earnest when he uttered those passionate words , and entreated that they might be borne to Sylvia . 
Some instinct told Philip that if the specksioneer had only flirted with too many , yet that for Sylvia Robson his love was true and vehement . 
Then Philip tried to convince himself that from all that was said of his previous character , Kinraid was not capable of an enduring constant attachment ; and with such poor opiate to his conscience as he could obtain from this notion Philip was obliged to remain content , until , a day or two after the first intelligence of the presence of those three ships , he learned , with some trouble and pains , that their names were the Megoera , the Bellerophon , and the Hanover . 
Then he began to perceive how unlikely it was that the Alcestis should have been lingering on this shore all these many months . 
she might have been in battle before now , and if so -- So his previous fancies shrank to nothing , rebuked for their improbability , and with them vanished his self-reproach . 
At such flows of panic , Philip had his own private fears lest a flash of light should come upon Sylvia , and she should suddenly see that Kinraid 's absence might be accounted for in another way besides death . 
But when he reasoned , this seemed unlikely . 
If he had vanished this winter time , every one would have been convinced that the press-gang had seized upon him . 
Philip had never heard any one breathe the dreaded name of the Alcestis . 
Besides , he went on to think , at the farm they are out of hearing of this one great weary subject of talk . 
But it was not so , as he became convinced one evening . 
His aunt caught him a little aside while Sylvia was in the dairy , and her husband talking in the shippen with Kester . 
`` For good 's sake , Philip , dunnot thee bring us talk about t ' press-gang . 
It 's a thing as has got hold on my measter , till thou 'd think him possessed . 
He 's speaking perpetual on it i ' such a way , that thou 'd think he were itching to kill 'em a ' afore he tasted bread again . 
He really trembles wi ' rage and passion ; an ' a ' night it 's just as bad . 
He starts up i ' his sleep , swearing and cursing at 'em , till I 'm sometimes afeard he 'll mak ' an end o ' me by mistake . 
And what mun he do last night but open out on Charley Kinraid , and tell Sylvie he thought m ` appen t ' gang had got hold on him . 
Philip spoke , by no wish of his own , but as if compelled to speak . 
The instant these words had come out of his lips he could have bitten his tongue off . 
And yet afterwards it was a sort of balm to his conscience that he had so spoken . 
`` What nonsense , Philip ! '' 
said his aunt ; `` why , these fearsome ships were far out o ' sight when he went away , good go wi ' him , and Sylvie just getting o'er her trouble so nicely , and even my master went on for to say if they 'd getten hold on him , he were not a chap to stay wi ' 'em ; he 'd gi'en proofs on his hatred to 'em , time on . 
asked Philip , in a hoarse low voice . 
`` It 's best so , '' said Philip , and then to calm his unusually excited aunt , he promised to avoid the subject of the press-gang as much as possible . 
When they returned to the house they found Philip there , for it was already dusk . 
It was Kester 's usual Sunday plan to withdraw to bed at as early an hour as he could manage to sleep , often in winter before six ; but now he was too full of interest in what Philip might have to tell of Monkshaven news to forego his Sabbath privilege of spending the evening sitting on the chair at the end of the dresser behind the door . 
Philip was as close to Sylvia as he could possibly get without giving her offence , when they came in . 
Her manner was listless and civil ; she had lost all that active feeling towards him which made him positively distasteful , and had called out her girlish irritation and impertinence . 
She now was rather glad to see him than otherwise . 
He brought some change into the heavy monotony of her life -- monotony so peaceful until she had been stirred by passion out of that content with the small daily events which had now become burdensome recurrences . 
Insensibly to herself she was becoming dependent on his timid devotion , his constant attention ; and he , lover-like , once so attracted , in spite of his judgment , by her liveliness and piquancy , now doted on her languor , and thought her silence more sweet than words . 
He had only just arrived when master and man came in . 
In a minute or two he interrupted Philip 's words of greeting and inquiry by breaking out into the story of the rescue of last night . 
But to the mute surprise of Sylvia , the only one who noticed it , Philip 's face , instead of expressing admiration and pleasant wonder , lengthened into dismay ; once or twice he began to interrupt , but stopped himself as if he would consider his words again . 
Only Sylvia was made uneasy by Philip 's face and manner . 
Philip went very red , and then more sallow than usual . 
He had not been thinking of Charley Kinraid , but of quite another thing , while Daniel had told his story ; but this last speech of the old man 's brought up the remembrance that was always quick , do what he would to smother or strangle it . 
Philip went on , still graver than before , boldly continuing to say what he knew would be discordant to the family he loved so well . 
Philip took no notice of this poor attempt at sarcasm : he seemed as if lost in thought , then he said , -- `` I 'm vexed to plague yo ' , but I 'd best say all I 've got i ' my mind . 
Perhaps Philip had better have held his tongue ; but he believed in the danger , which he was anxious to impress upon his uncle , in order that , knowing what was to be apprehended , the latter might take some pains to avert it . 
He went on . 
Philip was silent . 
He did not care to brave any further his uncle 's angry frown and contracted eye . 
If he had only known of Daniel Robson 's part in the riot before he had left the town , he would have taken care to have had better authority for the reality of the danger which he had heard spoken about , and in which he could not help believing . 
As it was he could only keep quiet until he had ascertained what was the legal peril overhanging the rioters , and how far his uncle had been recognized . 
Philip saw it all , and yearned over her . 
He plunged headlong into some other subject to try and divert attention from her ; but Daniel was too ill at ease to talk much , and Bell was obliged to try and keep up the semblance of conversation , with an occasional word or two from Kester , who seemed instinctively to fall into her way of thinking and to endeavour to keep the dark thought in the background . 
Philip heard her where he sate near the bottom of the short steep staircase , and at every sob the cords of love round his heart seemed tightened , and he felt as if he must there and then do something to console her . 
But , instead , he sat on talking of nothings , a conversation in which Daniel joined with somewhat of surliness , while Bell , grave and anxious , kept wistfully looking from one to the other , desirous of gleaning some further information on the subject , which had begun to trouble her mind . 
She hoped some chance would give her the opportunity of privately questioning Philip , but it seemed to be equally her husband 's wish to thwart any such intention of hers . 
He remained in the house-place , till after Philip had left , although he was evidently so much fatigued as to give some very distinct , though unintentional hints to his visitor to be gone . 
At length the house-door was locked on Philip , and then Daniel prepared to go to bed . 
They spoke of the day 's work before them ; of the crops to be sown ; of the cattle ; of the markets ; but each one was conscious of a wish to know more distinctly what were the chances of the danger that , to judge from Philip 's words , hung over them , falling upon them and cutting them off from all these places for the coming days . 
The food was scarcely touched on their plates , yet they were trying to make talk among themselves as usual ; they seemed as though they dared not let themselves be silent , when Sylvia , sitting opposite to the window , saw Philip at the top of the brow , running rapidly towards the farm . 
An instant afterwards , Philip , breathless , was in the room . 
He gasped out , `` They 're coming ! 
`` But there was rioting , beside the rescue ; t ' house was burnt , '' continued eager , breathless Philip . 
Sylvia had his hat on his head by this time ; and Bell , wan and stiff , trembling all over , had his overcoat , and his leather purse with the few coins she could muster , ready for him to put on . 
said Philip , `` for God 's sake , lose no time , but be off . '' 
asked Bell , as if Philip must decide all . 
Philip was so keenly eager , he hardly took note at the time of Sylvia 's one vivid look of unspoken thanks , yet he remembered it afterwards . 
Philip , without another word , pushed Daniel before him upstairs , feeling that his own presence at Haytersbank Farm at that hour of the day would be a betrayal . 
`` They 're in , '' said Philip , as Daniel squeezed himself under the bed ; and then they held quite still , Philip as much concealed by the scanty , blue-check curtain as he could manage to be . 
`` That screech spoiled all , '' sighed Philip . 
Then in another moment they had rushed at Philip 's legs , exposed as these were . 
They drew him out with violence , and then let him go . 
But immediately they put two and two together ; for in so small a place as Monkshaven every one 's relationships and connections , and even likings , were known ; and the motive of Philip 's coming out to Haytersbank was perfectly clear to these men . 
`` A wish a 'd niver hidden mysel ' ; it were his doing , '' jerking his thumb towards Philip : `` a 'm ready to stand by what a 've done . 
He was trying to carry it off with bravado , but Philip saw that he had received a shock , from his sudden look of withered colour and shrunken feature . 
`` Do n't handcuff him , '' said Philip , putting money into the constable 's hand . 
Good-by , my lass ; look well after mother , and ask Philip for guidance if it 's needed . '' 
He was taken out of his home , and then arose the shrill cries of the women ; but in a minute or two they were checked by the return of one of the constables , who , cap in hand at the sight of so much grief , said , `` He wants a word wi ' his daughter . '' 
Philip took her hand , and softly led her back to her weeping mother . 
Philip stood by silent , thinking , as well as he could , for his keen sympathy with their grief , what had best be done next . 
Meanwhile Philip had slowly been arriving at the conclusion that he was more wanted in Monkshaven to look after Daniel 's interests , to learn what were the legal probabilities in consequence of the old man 's arrest , and to arrange for his family accordingly , than standing still and silent in the Haytersbank kitchen , too full of fellow-feeling and heavy foreboding to comfort , awkwardly unsympathetic in appearance from the very aching of his heart . 
So when his aunt , with instinctive sense of regularity and propriety , began to put away the scarcely tasted dinner , and Sylvia , blinded with crying , and convulsively sobbing , was yet trying to help her mother , Philip took his hat , and brushing it round and round with the sleeve of his coat , said , -- `` I think I 'll just go back , and see how matters stand . '' 
He had a more distinct plan in his head than these words implied , but it depended on so many contingencies of which he was ignorant that he said only these few words ; and with a silent resolution to see them again that day , but a dread of being compelled to express his fears , so far beyond theirs , he went off without saying anything more . 
Somehow she had expected him to do something -- what , she did not know ; but he was gone , and they were left without stay or help . 
`` But I niver thought he 'd leave us , '' moaned Sylvia , half in her mother 's arms , and thinking of Philip . 
`` Oh , mother , mother , it 's Philip as has left us , and he could ha ' stayed . '' 
`` He 'll come back , or mebbe send , I 'll be bound . 
Leastways he 'll be gone to see feyther , and he 'll need comfort most on all , in a fremd place -- in Bridewell -- and niver a morsel of victual or a piece o ' money . '' 
Meanwhile Philip had hastened back to Monkshaven . 
He had no umbrella , he had to face the driving rain for the greater part of the way ; but he was thankful to the weather , for it kept men indoors , and he wanted to meet no one , but to have time to think and mature his plans . 
Philip , as the representative of the family , the head of which was now suffering for his deeds in the popular cause , would have met with more sympathy , ay , and more respect than he imagined , as he went along the streets , glancing from side to side , fearful of meeting some who would shy him as the relation of one who had been ignominiously taken to Bridewell a few hours before . 
But in spite of this wincing of Philip 's from observation and remark , he never dreamed of acting otherwise than as became a brave true friend . 
And this he did , and would have done , from a natural faithfulness and constancy of disposition , without any special regard for Sylvia . 
He knew his services were needed in the shop ; business which he had left at a moment 's warning awaited him , unfinished ; but at this time he could not bear the torture of giving explanations , and alleging reasons to the languid intelligence and slow sympathies of Coulson . 
He went to the offices of Mr. Donkin , the oldest established and most respected attorney in Monkshaven -- he who had been employed to draw up the law papers and deeds of partnership consequent on Hepburn and Coulson succeeding to the shop of John and Jeremiah Foster , Brothers . 
Mr. Donkin knew Philip from this circumstance . 
It so happened that Mr. Donkin had a favourable opinion of Philip ; and perhaps for this reason the latter had a shorter time to wait before he obtained an interview with the head of the house , than many of the clients who came for that purpose from town or country for many miles round . 
Philip was ushered in . 
Philip hesitated how to begin . 
Philip 's sensitive nerves felt and rightly interpreted the action . 
said Mr. Donkin , after a short pause , to try and compel Philip into speed in his story . 
Looking up suddenly at Philip , he said : `` You are aware that I am the clerk to the magistrates ? '' 
said Philip ; and then he was again silent for a period ; long enough to make the busy attorney impatient . 
asked poor Philip , in dismay . 
`` Only an uncle , sir , '' said Philip , his heart getting full ; more from Mr. Donkin 's manner than from his words . 
asked Philip , with sharp beseeching in his voice . 
He had never imagined that it was a capital offence ; and the thought of his aunt 's and Sylvia 's ignorance of the possible fate awaiting him whom they so much loved , was like a stab to his heart . 
Philip stood up , looked at his hat , and then came forward and laid down six and eightpence on the desk in a blushing , awkward way . 
Philip took up the money , and left the room . 
In an instant he came back again , glanced furtively at Mr. Donkin 's face , and then , once more having recourse to brushing his hat , he said , in a low voice -- `` You 'll not be hard upon him , sir , I hope ? '' 
Philip , discomfited , left the room ; an instant of thought and Mr. Donkin had jumped up , and hastening to the door he opened it and called after Philip . 
`` Hepburn -- Hepburn -- I say , he 'll be taken to York as soon as may be to-morrow morning ; if any one wants to see him before then , they 'd better look sharp about it . '' 
Philip went quickly along the streets towards Mr. Dawson 's , pondering upon the meaning of all that he had heard , and what he had better do . 
He had made his plans pretty clearly out by the time he arrived at Mr. Dawson 's smart door in one of the new streets on the other side of the river . 
A clerk as smart as the door answered Philip 's hesitating knock , and replied to his inquiry as to whether Mr. Dawson was at home in the negative , adding , after a moment 's pause -- `` He 'll be at home in less than an hour ; he 's only gone to make Mrs. Dawson 's will -- Mrs. Dawson , of Collyton -- she 's not expected to get better . '' 
Probably the clerk of an older-established attorney would not have given so many particulars as to the nature of his master 's employment ; but , as it happened it was of no consequence , the unnecessary information made no impression on Philip 's mind ; he thought the matter over , and then said -- `` I 'll be back in an hour , then . 
He turned on his heel and went back to the High Street as fast as he could , with a far more prompt and decided step than before . 
He hastened through the streets , emptied by the bad weather , to the principal inn of the town , the George -- the sign of which was fastened to a piece of wood stretched across the narrow street ; and going up to the bar with some timidity -LRB- for the inn was frequented by the gentry of Monkshaven and the neighbourhood , and was considered as a touch above such customers as Philip -RRB- , he asked if he could have a tax-cart made ready in a quarter of an hour , and sent up to the door of his shop . 
Philip hesitated before he replied -- `` Up the Knotting Lane , to the stile leading down to Haytersbank Farm ; they 'll have to wait there for some as are coming . '' 
`` They sha n't wait long , '' said Philip , decisively : `` in a quarter of an hour , mind . '' 
He now went back to the shop , beating against the storm which was increasing as the tide came in , and the night hours approached . 
Philip came up to her , and stood looking at her with unseeing eyes , but the strange consciousness of his fixed stare made her uncomfortable , and called the faint flush to her pale cheeks ; and at length compelled her , as it were , to speak , and break the spell of the silence . 
Hester asked -LRB- without looking at Philip -RRB- -- `` Yo 're sadly wet , I 'm feared ? '' 
Philip whispered to Hester -- `` Wilt come into t ' parlour ? 
Philip set down on the table the candle which he had brought out of the shop , and turning round to Hester , took her trembling hand into both of his , and gripping it nervously , said -- `` Oh ! 
`` Anything , thou knows , Philip . '' 
Thou sees the matter is this : Daniel Robson -- he who married my aunt -- is taken up for you riot on Saturday night at t ' Mariners ' Arms -- '' `` They spoke on it this afternoon ; they said the warrant was out , '' said Hester , filling up the sentence as Philip hesitated , lost for an instant in his own thoughts . 
He had used words as if he was making a request to Hester ; but he did not seem to await her answer , so sure was he that she would go . 
Philip pressed her hand tenderly , a glow of gratitude overspread him . 
`` Thou 's a real good one , God bless thee , '' said he . 
`` Thou must take care of thyself , too , '' continued he ; `` there 's wraps and plenty i ' th ' house , and if there are not there 's those i ' th ' shop as 'll be none the worse for once wearing at such a time as this ; and wrap thee well up , and take shawls and cloaks for them , and mind as they put 'em on . 
Hester 's face , instead of responding to his look , contracted a little , and for the life of her she could not have helped saying , `` Why do n't yo ' go yourself , Philip ? '' 
Yo 'll tell her , '' said Philip insinuatingly , as if a fresh thought had struck him , `` as how I would ha ' come . 
I do n't know what I should ha ' done without thee , '' said he as he wrapped her well up in the cart , and placed the bundles of cloaks and things by her side . 
Along the street in the jolting cart , as long as Hester could see the misty light streaming out of the shop door , so long was Philip standing bareheaded in the rain looking after her . 
But she knew , that it was not her own poor self that attracted his lingering gaze . 
`` I 'm Hester Rose , '' she continued , half addressing Sylvia , who she thought might remember the name , `` and Philip Hepburn has sent me in a tax-cart to t ' stile yonder , to fetch both on yo ' back to Monkshaven . '' 
`` Philip says he 'll be sent to York to-morrow , and yo 'll be fain to see him before he goes , and if yo 'll come down to Monkshaven to-night yo 'll be on t ' spot again ' the time comes when t ' justices will let ye . '' 
What made Philip leave us ? 
Why did n't he come hissel ' ? '' 
`` He could n't come hissel ' , he bade me say ; because he was bound to be at the lawyer 's at five , about yo ' r father 's business . 
I think yo ' might ha ' known he would ha ' come for any business of his own ; and , about York , it 's Philip as telled me , and I never asked why . 
To distrust Philip ! 
`` Philip will know , '' she said , using Philip 's name as a kind of spell -- it would have been so to her . 
`` Come away to Philip , '' said she again , urging Sylvia , by her looks and manner , to prepare for the little journey . 
Sylvia moved away for this purpose , saying to herself , `` It 's going to see feyther : he will tell me all . '' 
All Bell thought of was that `` he '' was at the end of her toil . 
Somehow , without knowing why , or reasoning upon it , she hit upon Philip 's message as the best comfort in her power to give . 
`` Philip bade me say it was business as kept him from fetching yo ' hissel ' -- business wi ' the lawyer , about -- about yo ' r father . '' 
They were now at Philip 's door , which was opened to receive them even before they arrived , as if some one had been watching and listening . 
The old servant , Phoebe , the fixture in the house , who had belonged to it and to the shop for the last twenty years , came out , holding a candle and sheltering it in her hand from the weather , while Philip helped the tottering steps of Mrs. Robson as she descended behind . 
Wistfully she longed for one word of thanks or recognition from Philip , in whose service she had performed this hard task ; but he was otherwise occupied , and on casting a further glance back as she turned the corner of the street , she saw Philip lifting Sylvia carefully down in his arms from her footing on the top of the wheel , and then they all went into the light and the warmth , the door was shut , the lightened cart drove briskly away , and Hester , in rain , and cold , and darkness , went homewards with her tired sad heart . 
Philip had done all he could , since his return from lawyer Dawson 's , to make his house bright and warm for the reception of his beloved . 
He had a strong apprehension of the probable fate of poor Daniel Robson ; he had warm sympathy with the miserable distress of the wife and daughter ; but still at the back of his mind his spirits danced as if this was to them a festal occasion . 
`` I 'm ready now , '' said she , standing up , and rather repulsing Sylvia 's cares ; `` I 'm ready now , '' said she , looking eagerly at Philip , as if for him to lead the way . 
`` It 's not to-night , '' replied he , almost apologetically . 
Suddenly she said , `` But I 've brought his comforter wi ' me -- his red woollen comforter as he 's allays slept in this twelvemonth past ; he 'll get his rheumatiz again ; oh , Philip , can not I get it to him ? '' 
`` I 'll send it by Phoebe , '' said Philip , who was busy making tea , hospitable and awkward . 
asked Philip , hoping she would say `` no , '' and be content with Phoebe , and leave him where he was . 
`` Oh , Philip , would yo ' ? '' 
Philip was gone , and the excitement of Bell and Sylvia flagged once more , and sank into wondering despondency . 
`` I 'm sure Philip would ha ' wished yo ' for to take it , '' said Sylvia , pouring out a cup . 
After tea Bell Robson 's weariness became so extreme , that Philip and Sylvia urged her to go to bed . 
Sylvia , too , bade Philip good-night , and his look followed the last wave of her dress as she disappeared up the stairs ; then leaning his chin on his hand , he gazed at vacancy and thought deeply -- for how long he knew not , so intent was his mind on the chances of futurity . 
`` Phoebe shall make it , not you , '' said Philip , eagerly preventing her , by going to the kitchen door and giving his orders . 
When he turned round again , Sylvia was standing over the fire , leaning her head against the stone mantel-piece for the comparative coolness . 
She did not speak at first , or take any notice of him . 
He watched her furtively , and saw that she was crying , the tears running down her cheeks , and she too much absorbed in her thoughts to wipe them away with her apron . 
While he was turning over in his mind what he could best say to comfort her -LRB- his heart , like hers , being almost too full for words -RRB- , she suddenly looked him full in the face , saying , `` Philip ! 
wo n't they soon let him go ? 
what can they do to him ? '' 
Her open lips trembled while awaiting his answer , the tears came up and filled her eyes . 
It was just the question he had most dreaded ; it led to the terror that possessed his own mind , but which he had hoped to keep out of hers . 
He hesitated . 
He had only made it worse by consideration ; he rushed blindfold at a reply . 
`` He 's ta'en up for felony . '' 
`` There thou 're out ; he 's in for letting yon men out ; thou may call it rioting if thou 's a mind to set folks again ' him , but it 's too bad to cast such hard words at him as yon -- felony , '' she repeated , in a half-offended tone . 
`` It 's what the lawyers call it , '' said Philip , sadly ; `` it 's no word o ' mine . '' 
said Philip , shaking his head . 
He went to the kitchen door and asked if the gruel was not ready , so anxious was he to stop the conversation at this point ; but Phoebe , who held her young master in but little respect , scolded him for a stupid man , who thought , like all his sex , that gruel was to be made in a minute , whatever the fire was , and bade him come and make it for himself if he was in such a hurry . 
asked she , keeping down her agitation to look at Philip the more sharply . 
Philip was on his knees by her , dumb from excess of sympathy , kissing her dress , all unfelt by her ; he murmured half-words , he began passionate sentences that died away upon his lips , and she , she thought of nothing but her father , and was possessed and rapt out of herself by the dread of losing him to that fearful country which was almost like the grave to her , so all but impassable was the gulf . 
But Philip knew that it was possible that the separation impending might be that of the dark mysterious grave -- that the gulf between the father and child might indeed be that which no living , breathing , warm human creature can ever cross . 
Thou 're going crazy , Philip , I think ; '' but she did not think so , although she would fain have believed it . 
`` Then he may be hung , '' said she , low and solemnly , after a long pause . 
Philip turned away his face , and did not utter a word . 
`` It 's t ' worst as can happen to him , '' said Philip . 
`` More likely he 'll be transported : maybe he 'll be brought in innocent after all . '' 
`` They 'll hang him . 
she choked out , almost stuffing her apron into her mouth to deaden the sound , and catching at Philip 's hand , and wringing it with convulsive force , till the pain that he loved was nearly more than he could bear . 
No words of his could touch such agony ; but irrepressibly , and as he would have done it to a wounded child , he bent over her , and kissed her with a tender trembling kiss . 
Philip saw her , and knew , in an instant , what the old woman 's conclusion must needs be ; but Sylvia had to be shaken by the now standing Philip , before she could be brought back to the least consciousness of the present time . 
She lifted up her white face to understand his words , then she rose up like one who slowly comes to the use of her limbs . 
If she asks me , Philip , what mun I say ? '' 
`` She 'll not ask yo , ''' said he , `` if yo ' go about as common . 
I 'll keep it from her as long as I can ; I 'll manage better nor I 've done wi ' thee , Sylvie , '' said he , with a sad faint smile , looking with fond penitence at her altered countenance . 
`` Thou must n't blame thysel ' , '' said Sylvia , seeing his regret . 
`` Cousin Philip , '' she replied , in the same measured tone in which she had always spoken since she had learnt the extent of her father 's danger , and the slow stillness of her words was in harmony with the stony look of her face , `` thou 's a comfort to me , I could n't bide my life without thee ; but I can not take in the thought o ' love , it seems beside me quite ; I can think on nought but them that is quick , and them that is dead . '' 
Philip had money in the Fosters ' bank , not so much as it might have been if he had not had to pay for the furniture in his house . 
Much of this furniture was old , and had belonged to the brothers Foster , and they had let Philip have it at a very reasonable rate ; but still the purchase of it had diminished the amount of his savings . 
But on the sum which he possessed he drew largely -- he drew all -- nay , he overdrew his account somewhat , to his former masters ' dismay , although the kindness of their hearts overruled the harder arguments of their heads . 
His wife had handed over to Philip all the money or money 's worth she could lay her hands upon . 
Daniel himself was not one to be much beforehand with the world ; but to Bell 's thrifty imagination the round golden guineas , tied up in the old stocking-foot against rent-day , seemed a mint of money on which Philip might draw infinitely . 
Every penny of money either she or her mother could save went to Philip . 
Kester 's hoard , too , was placed in Hepburn 's hands at Sylvia 's earnest entreaty ; for Kester had no great opinion of Philip 's judgment , and would rather have taken his money straight himself to Mr. Dawson , and begged him to use it for his master 's behoof . 
Indeed , if anything , the noiseless breach between Kester and Philip had widened of late . 
It was seed-time , and Philip , in his great anxiety for every possible interest that might affect Sylvia , and also as some distraction from his extreme anxiety about her father , had taken to study agriculture of an evening in some old books which he had borrowed -- The Farmer 's Complete Guide , and such-like ; and from time to time he came down upon the practical dogged Kester with directions gathered form the theories in his books . 
Kester persevered in his old ways , making light of Philip and his books in manner and action , till at length Philip withdrew from the contest . 
`` Many a man may lead a horse to water , but there 's few can make him drink , '' and Philip certainly was not one of those few . 
He had favoured Charley Kinraid as a lover of Sylvia 's ; and though he had no idea of the truth , -- though he believed in the drowning of the specksioneer as much as any one , -- yet the year which had elapsed since Kinraid 's supposed death , was but a very short while to the middle-aged man , who forgot how slowly time passes with the young ; and he could often have scolded Sylvia , if the poor girl had been a whit less heavy at heart than she was , for letting Philip come so much about her -- come , though it was on her father 's business . 
Kester even allowed himself to go so far as to wonder what Philip could want with all the money , which to him seemed unaccountable ; and once or twice the ugly thought crossed his mind , that shops conducted by young men were often not so profitable as when guided by older heads , and that some of the coin poured into Philip 's keeping might have another destination than the defence of his master . 
Poor Philip ! 
and he was spending all his own , and more than all his own money , and no one ever knew it , as he had bound down his friendly bankers to secrecy . 
Once only Kester ventured to speak to Sylvia on the subject of Philip . 
She had followed her cousin to the field just in front of their house , just outside the porch , to ask him some question she dared not put in her mother 's presence -- -LRB- Bell , indeed , in her anxiety , usually absorbed all the questions when Philip came -RRB- -- and stood , after Philip had bid her good-by , hardly thinking about him at all , but looking unconsciously after him as he ascended the brow ; and at the top he had turned to take a last glance at the place his love inhabited , and , seeing her , he had waved his hat in gratified farewell . 
She , meanwhile , was roused from far other thoughts than of him , and of his now acknowledged love , by the motion against the sky , and was turning back into the house when she heard Kester 's low hoarse call , and saw him standing at the shippen door . 
And it 's noane a time for a wench to go courtin ' when her feyther 's i ' prison , '' said he , with a consciousness as he uttered these last words that he was cruel and unjust and going too far , yet carried on to say them by his hot jealousy against Philip . 
Sylvia continued looking at him without speaking : she was too much offended for expression . 
`` Thou may glower an ' thou may look , lass , '' said he , `` but a 'd thought better on thee . 
This afternoon she had cried herself to sleep in her chair after Philip 's departure . 
In all Philip 's comings and goings to and from Haytersbank Farm at this time , he never spoke again of his love . 
So the attorney , who went over to see the prisoner in York Castle , told Philip . 
He added that Daniel still retained his pride in his achievement , and could not be brought to understand the dangerous position in which he was placed ; that when pressed and questioned as to circumstances that might possibly be used in his defence , he always wandered off to accounts of previous outrages committed by the press-gang , or to passionate abuse of the trick by which men had been lured from their homes on the night in question to assist in putting out an imaginary fire , and then seized and carried off . 
Such was the substance of what Philip heard , and heard repeatedly , during his many visits to Mr. Dawson . 
Philip was glad that the extremity of his danger never having been hinted to Bell , and travelling some twenty miles being a most unusual exertion at that time to persons of her class , the idea of going to see her husband at York had never suggested itself to Bell 's mind . 
Her increasing feebleness made this seem a step only to be taken in case of the fatal extreme necessity ; such was the conclusion that both Sylvia and he had come to ; and it was the knowledge of this that made Sylvia strangle her own daily longing to see her father . 
Philip never told her the causes for despondency ; she was young , and she , like her father , could not understand how fearful sometimes is the necessity for prompt and severe punishment of rebellion against authority . 
Philip was to be in York during the time of the assizes ; and it was understood , almost without words , that if the terrible worst occurred , the wife and daughter were to come to York as soon as might be . 
For this end Philip silently made all the necessary arrangements before leaving Monkshaven . 
The sympathy of all men was with him ; it was too large an occasion for Coulson to be anything but magnanimous . 
He urged Philip to take all the time requisite ; to leave all business cares to him . 
And as Philip went about pale and sad , there was another cheek that grew paler still , another eye that filled with quiet tears as his heaviness of heart became more and more apparent . 
Philip was in York Minster , watching the solemn antique procession in which the highest authority in the county accompanies the judges to the House of the Lord , to be there admonished as to the nature of their duties . 
As Philip listened to the sermon with a strained and beating heart , his hopes rose higher than his fears for the first time , and that evening he wrote his first letter to Sylvia . 
Direct -- `` Mr. Philip Hepburn , `` Care of Mr. Fraser , Draper , `` Micklegate , `` York . 
`` Your respectful cousin and servant , `` Philip Hepburn . 
`` Philip is hopeful , '' said Sylvia , raising her head and looking through her tears at her mother . 
But sin Philip and thee seem t ' ha ' made it up -- '' Sylvia shivered , and opened her mouth to speak , but did not say a word . 
`` Philip says he wo n't . '' 
said Bell , in a brisk , cheerful tone ; `` but he 'll , maybe , be home to-night , and I ` se bound to have all things ready for him . '' 
`` Anyhow , '' said Sylvia , sitting up in bed , `` he could n't come home to-night . '' 
She almost ran against Philip , who did not perceive her , as he was awaiting her coming the other way round the corner of the house , and who turned upon her a face whose import she read in an instant . 
`` Philip ! '' 
was all she said , and then she fainted at his feet , coming down with a heavy bang on the round paving stones of the yard . 
he cried , for she looked like one dead , and with all his strength the wearied man could not lift her and carry her into the house . 
While Philip , kneeling at her head , was partly supporting her in his arms , and heedless of any sight or sound , the shadow of some one fell upon him . 
He looked up and saw his aunt ; the old dignified , sensible expression on her face , exactly like her former self , composed , strong , and calm . 
`` My lass , '' said she , sitting down by Philip , and gently taking her out of his arms into her own . 
He had left Bell and Sylvia in their lodging at York , under Philip 's care ; he dared not go to see them ; he could not trust himself ; he had sent them his duty , and bade Philip tell Sylvia that the game-hen had brought out fifteen chickens at a hatch . 
Yet although Kester sent this message through Philip , although he saw and recognized all that Philip was doing in their behalf , -- in the behalf of Daniel Robson , the condemned felon , his honoured master , he liked Hepburn not a whit better than he had done before all this sorrow had come upon them . 
Philip had , perhaps , shown a want of tact in his conduct to Kester . 
Now the money which Philip gave him back was part of an advance which Foster Brothers had made on Philip 's own account . 
Philip had thought that it was hard on Kester to lose his savings in a hopeless cause , and had made a point of repaying the old man ; but Kester would far rather have felt that the earnings of the sweat of his brow had gone in the attempt to save his master 's life than have had twice ten times as many golden guineas . 
Moreover , it seemed to take his action in lending his hoard out of the sphere of love , and make it but a leaden common loan , when it was Philip who brought him the sum , not Sylvia , into whose hands he had given it . 
With these feelings Kester felt his heart shut up as he saw the long-watched-for two coming down the little path with a third person ; with Philip holding up the failing steps of poor Bell Robson , as , loaded with her heavy mourning , and feeble from the illness which had detained her in York ever since the day of her husband 's execution , she came faltering back to her desolate home . 
Sylvia was also occupied in attending to her mother ; once or twice , when they paused a little , she and Philip spoke , in the familiar way in which there is no coyness nor reserve . 
Kester caught up his clogs , and went quickly out through the back-kitchen into the farmyard , not staying to greet them , as he had meant to do ; and yet it was dull-sighted of him not to have perceived that whatever might be the relations between Philip and Sylvia , he was sure to have accompanied them home ; for , alas ! 
he was the only male protector of their blood remaining in the world . 
Poor Kester , who would fain have taken that office upon himself , chose to esteem himself cast off , and went heavily about the farm-yard , knowing that he ought to go in and bid such poor welcome as he had to offer , yet feeling too much to like to show himself before Philip . 
It was long , too , before any one had leisure to come and seek him . 
It was all Philip and Sylvia could do to manage her in the first excitement of returning home ; her restless inquiry for him who would never more be present in the familiar scene , her feverish weariness and uneasiness , all required tender soothing and most patient endurance of her refusals to be satisfied with what they said or did . 
Then Philip would fain have spoken with Sylvia before the hour came at which he must return to Monkshaven , but she eluded him , and went in search of Kester , whose presence she had missed . 
She knew by some sort of intuition that if Philip accompanied them home -LRB- as , indeed , under the circumstances , was so natural as to be almost unavoidable -RRB- the old servant and friend of the family would absent himself ; and so she slipped away at the first possible moment to go in search of him . 
`` Yes , if it 's Philip thou means ; he 's been all we 've had to look to sin ' . '' 
`` Well , now he 'll be seein ' after his shop , a reckon ? '' 
`` Folks is talkin ' about thee and him ; thou 'll ha ' to mind lest thee and him gets yo ' r names coupled together . '' 
They were interrupted by Philip 's voice from the back-door . 
`` Come , Kester , come , '' and taking hold of him she drew him with her into the house . 
Philip came to the rescue . 
`` Aunt , '' said he , `` the clock has stopped ; can you tell me where t ' find t ' key , and I 'll wind it up . '' 
She was driven more and more upon Philip ; his advice and his affection became daily more necessary to her . 
He had generally to fall back on his own experience ; and , guided by that , things were not doing badly in his estimation , when one day Sylvia said to him , as they were in the hay-field , heaping up the hay into cocks with Dolly Reid 's assistance -- `` Kester -- I did n't tell thee -- there were a letter from Measter Hall , Lord Malton 's steward , that came last night and that Philip read me . '' 
Philip read it thee , and whatten might it say ? '' 
`` Only that he had an offer for Haytersbank Farm , and would set mother free to go as soon as t ' crops was off t ' ground . '' 
`` T ' answer 's sent to Measter Hall -- Philip wrote it last night ; so there 's no use planning and fretting , it were done for t ' best , and mun be done . '' 
`` Measter Hall had sent a notice to quit on Midsummer day ; but Philip had answered it hisself . 
Thou knows I 'm not good at reading writing , ` special when a letter 's full o ' long words , and Philip had ta'en it in hand to answer . '' 
`` I think I 'm going to marry Philip , '' said Sylvia , in so low a tone , that if Kester had not suspected what her answer was to be he could not have understood it . 
Philip 's very good , and kind , and he says he shall die if I will not marry him , and there 's no home for mother and me , -- no home for her , for as for me I dunnot care what becomes on me ; but if Charlie 's alive I can not marry Philip -- no , not if he dies for want o ' me -- and as for mother , poor mother , Kester , it 's an awful strait ; only first tell me if there 's a chance , just one in a thousand , only one in a hundred thousand , as Charlie were ta'en by t ' gang ? '' 
`` My lass , a 'd fain have him alive , an ' a dunnot fancy Philip for thy husband ; but it 's a serious judgment as thou 's put me on , an ' a 'm trying it fair . 
There 's allays one chance i ' a thousand as he 's alive , for no man iver saw him dead . 
`` Sylvie , thou knows Philip paid me back my money , and it were eight pound fifteen and three-pence ; and t ' hay and stock 'll sell for summat above t ' rent ; and a 've a sister as is a decent widow-woman , tho ' but badly off , livin ' at Dale End ; and if thee and thy mother 'll go live wi ' her , a 'll give thee well on to all a can earn , and it 'll be a matter o ' five shilling a week . 
She had promised herself more fully to Philip the night before than she had told Kester ; and , with some pains and much patience , her cousin , her lover , alas ! 
Just as she was in this miserable state , wishing that the grave lay open before her , and that she could lie down , and be covered up by the soft green turf from all the bitter sorrows and carking cares and weary bewilderments of this life ; wishing that her father was alive , that Charlie was once more here ; that she had not repeated the solemn words by which she had promised herself to Philip only the very evening before , she heard a soft , low whistle , and , looking round unconsciously , there was her lover and affianced husband , leaning on the gate , and gazing into the field with passionate eyes , devouring the fair face and figure of her , his future wife . 
Philip and Sylvia were engaged . 
It was not so happy a state of things as Philip had imagined . 
He had already found that out , although it was not twenty-four hours since Sylvia had promised to be his . 
He could not have defined why he was dissatisfied ; if he had been compelled to account for his feeling he would probably have alleged as a reason that Sylvia 's manner was so unchanged by her new position towards him . 
When she joined him at the field-gate , his heart was beating fast , his eyes were beaming out love at her approach . 
But she resisted his silent effort to draw her away from the path leading to the house , and turned her face steadily homewards . 
He murmured soft words , which she scarcely heard . 
`` Philip , Kester has been saying as how it might ha ' been -- '' `` Well ! '' 
said Philip . 
Then she went on quickly , and lifting her beautiful eyes to Philip 's face , with a look of inquiry -- `` He thinks as Charley Kinraid may ha ' been took by t ' press-gang . '' 
Philip 's heart stopped beating ; literally , as if he had come to a sudden precipice , while he had thought himself securely walking on sunny greensward . 
He went purple all over from dismay ; he dared not take his eyes away from that sad earnest look of hers , but he was thankful that a mist came before them and drew a veil before his brain . 
He heard his own voice saying words he did not seem to have framed in his own mind . 
`` Kester 's a d -- d fool , '' he growled . 
Philip , think yo ' there 's just that one chance ? '' 
`` Ay , there 's a chance , sure enough , '' said Philip , in a kind of fierce despair that made him reckless what he said or did . 
Kester may say next as there 's a chance as your father is not dead , because we none on us saw him -- '' `` Hung , '' he was going to have said , but a touch of humanity came back into his stony heart . 
Sylvia sent up a little sharp cry at his words . 
He longed at the sound to take her in his arms and hush her up , as a mother hushes her weeping child . 
But the very longing , having to be repressed , only made him more beside himself , with guilt , anxiety , and rage . 
Sylvia looking sadly down into the bubbling , merry , flowing water ; Philip glaring at her , wishing that the next word were spoken , though it might stab him to the heart . 
At length , unable to bear it any longer , he said , `` Thou sets a deal o ' store on that man , Sylvie . '' 
If `` that man '' had been there at the moment , Philip would have grappled with him , and not let go his hold till one or the other were dead . 
Sylvia caught some of the passionate meaning of the gloomy miserable tone of Philip 's voice as he said these words . 
She looked up at him . 
There was something so pleading and innocent in her pale troubled face , so pathetic in her tone , that Philip 's anger , which had been excited against her , as well as against all the rest of the world , melted away into love ; and once more he felt that have her for his own he must , at any cost . 
He sate down by her , and spoke to her in quite a different manner to that which he had used before with a ready tact and art which some strange instinct , or tempter `` close at his ear '' supplied . 
tell no tales ; I 'll not hear them , '' said she , wrenching herself out of Philip 's clasping arm . 
`` I 'll niver miscall one who is dead , '' said Philip ; each new unconscious sign of the strength of Sylvia 's love for her former lover only making him the more anxious to convince her that he was dead , only rendering him more keen at deceiving his own conscience by repeating to it the lie that long ere this Kinraid was in all probability dead -- killed by either the chances of war or tempestuous sea -- that , even if not , he was as good as dead to her ; so that the word `` dead '' might be used in all honest certainty , as in one of its meanings Kinraid was dead for sure . 
Philip took heart . 
He put his arm softly round her again , and murmured -- `` My lassie , try not to think on them as is gone , as is dead , but t ' think a bit more on him as loves yo ' wi ' heart and soul and might , and has done iver sin ' he first set eyes on yo ' . 
Philip sate on by the well-side , his face buried in his two hands . 
Presently he lifted himself up , drank some water eagerly out of his hollowed palm , sighed and shook himself , and followed his cousin into the house . 
Sometimes he came unexpectedly to the limits of his influence over her . 
In general she obeyed his expressed wishes with gentle indifference , as if she had no preferences of her own ; once or twice he found that she was doing what he desired out of the spirit of obedience , which , as her mother 's daughter , she believed to be her duty towards her affianced husband . 
So no one had ever named that Simpson was supposed to be dying till Philip began on the subject one evening . 
said Philip ; `` it gives me but poor heart to ask a favour of thee ! '' 
`` It seems as yo 've been speaking wi ' him , at any rate , '' said Sylvia , turning round on Philip . 
It was a bad look-out for Philip 's purpose ; but after a pause he went bravely on . 
Philip shook his head . 
I 've a mind to break it off for iver wi ' thee , Philip . '' 
Philip watched and waited till her breath came , his own half choked . 
I wonder , Philip , if thy feyther had done a kind deed -- and a right deed -- and a merciful deed -- and some one as he 'd been good to , even i ' t ' midst of his just anger , had gone and let on about him to th ' judge , as was trying to hang him , -- and had getten him hanged , -- hanged dead , so that his wife were a widow , and his child fatherless for ivermore , -- I wonder if thy veins would run milk and water , so that thou could go and make friends , and speak soft wi ' him as had caused thy feyther 's death ? '' 
It 's well enough for them as has but little to forgive to use them words ; and I do n't reckon it 's kind , or pretty-behaved in yo ' , Philip , to bring up Scripture again me . 
`` Thou ` rt vexed with me , Sylvie ; and I 'm not meaning but that it would go hard with thee to forgive him ; but I think it would be right and Christian-like i ' thee , and that thou 'd find thy comfort in thinking on it after . 
If thou 'd only go , and see his wistful eyes -- I think they 'd plead wi ' thee , more than his words , or mine either . '' 
When I love I love , and when I hate I hate ; and him as has done harm to me , or to mine , I may keep fra ' striking or murdering , but I 'll niver forgive . 
I should be just a monster , fit to be shown at a fair , if I could forgive him as got feyther hanged . '' 
Philip was silent , thinking what more he could urge . 
Yo 've said all yo ' can for him ; and perhaps it 's not yo ' as is to blame , but yo ' r nature . 
One or two more speeches of this kind convinced him that it would be wise in him to take her at her word . 
He went back to Simpson , and found him , though still alive , past the understanding of any words of human forgiveness : Philip had almost wished he had not troubled or irritated Sylvia by urging the dying man 's request : the performance of this duty seemed now to have been such a useless office . 
In the pause of active work , when daylight was done , and the evening shades came on , Sylvia had time to think : and her heart grew sad and soft , in comparison to what it had been , when Philip 's urgency had called out all her angry opposition . 
She did not say to herself that she would go and tell Simpson that she forgave him ; but she thought that if Philip asked her again that she should do so . 
But when she saw Philip again he told her that Simpson was dead ; and passed on from what he had reason to think would be an unpleasant subject to her . 
In general , Sylvia was gentle and good enough ; but Philip wanted her to be shy and tender with him , and this she was not . 
She spoke to him , her pretty eyes looking straight and composedly at him . 
She consulted him like the family friend that he was : she met him quietly in all the arrangements for the time of their marriage , which she looked upon more as a change of home , as the leaving of Haytersbank , as it would affect her mother , than in any more directly personal way . 
Philip was beginning to feel , though not as yet to acknowledge , that the fruit he had so inordinately longed for was but of the nature of an apple of Sodom . 
Long ago , lodging in widow Rose 's garret , he had been in the habit of watching some pigeons that were kept by a neighbour ; the flock disported themselves on the steep tiled roofs just opposite to the attic window , and insensibly Philip grew to know their ways , and one pretty soft little dove was somehow perpetually associated in his mind with his idea of his cousin Sylvia . 
Philip fancied that he saw the same colours in a certain piece of shot silk -- now in the shop ; and none other seemed to him so suitable for his darling 's wedding-dress . 
He carried enough to make a gown and gave it to her one evening , as she sate on the grass just outside the house , half attending to her mother , half engaged in knitting stockings for her scanty marriage outfit . 
He was glad that the sun was not gone down , thus allowing him to display the changing colours in fuller light . 
Philip whispered to Sylvia -- -LRB- he took delight in whispers , -- she , on the contrary , always spoke to him in her usual tone of voice -RRB- `` Thou ` lt look so pretty in it , sweetheart , -- o ' Thursday fortnight ! '' 
said Philip . 
I could n't put off my black , Philip , -- no , not to save my life ! 
You silk is just lovely , far too good for the likes of me , -- and I 'm sure I 'm much beholden to yo ' ; and I 'll have it made up first of any gown after last April come two years , -- but , oh , Philip , I can not put off my mourning ! '' 
said Philip , sadly . 
When I think on what would ha ' become of mother and me if we had n't had thee for a friend i ' need , I 'm noane ungrateful , Philip ; tho ' I sometimes fancy thou ` rt thinking I am . '' 
`` I do n't want yo ' to be grateful , Sylvie , '' said poor Philip , dissatisfied , yet unable to explain what he did want ; only knowing that there was something he lacked , yet fain would have had . 
In vain Philip tried to interest her in details of his improvements or contrivances in the new home to which he was going to take her . 
She did not tell him ; but the idea of the house behind the shop was associated in her mind with two times of discomfort and misery . 
The first time she had gone into the parlour about which Philip spoke so much was at the time of the press-gang riot , when she had fainted from terror and excitement ; the second was on that night of misery when she and her mother had gone in to Monkshaven , to bid her father farewell before he was taken to York : in that room , on that night , she had first learnt something of the fatal peril in which he stood . 
It was Philip 's plan that after they had been married in Kirk Moorside Church , he and his Sylvia , his cousin , his love , his wife , should go for the day to Robin Hood 's Bay , returning in the evening to the house behind the shop in the market-place . 
There they were to find Bell Robson installed in her future home ; for Haytersbank Farm was to be given up to the new tenant on the very day of the wedding ; Sylvia would not be married any sooner ; she said that she must stay there till the very last ; and had said it with such determination that Philip had desisted from all urgency at once . 
He had told her that all should be settled for her mother 's comfort during their few hours ' absence ; otherwise Sylvia would not have gone at all . 
He told her he should ask Hester , who was always so good and kind , -- who never yet had said him nay , to go to church with them as bridesmaid , -- for Sylvia would give no thought or care to anything but her mother , -- and that they would leave her at Haytersbank as they returned from church ; she would manage Mrs. Robson 's removal , -- she would do this -- do that -- do everything . 
Such friendly confidence had Philip in Hester 's willingness and tender skill . 
Sylvia acquiesced at length , and Philip took upon himself to speak to Hester on the subject . 
`` Hester , '' said he , one day when he was preparing to go home after the shop was closed ; `` would yo ' mind stopping a bit ? 
He was so happy he did not see her shiver all over . 
She hesitated just a moment before she answered , `` I 'll stay , if thou wishes it , Philip . 
I were niver so comfortable in a ' my life as when I were a lodger at thy house , '' said he , with brotherly tenderness in his tone . 
As it was , she unselfishly brought all her mind to bear upon the subject ; admired this , thought and decided upon that , as one by one Philip showed her all his alterations and improvements . 
She really ended by such a conquest of self that she could absolutely sympathize with the proud expectant lover , and had quenched all envy of the beloved , in sympathy with the delight she imagined Sylvia must experience when she discovered all these proofs of Philip 's fond consideration and care . 
Philip , joyous and content , stood near her talking . 
`` And , Hester , '' said he , `` Sylvie has given me a message for the , -- she says thou must be her bridesmaid , -- she 'll have none other . '' 
Philip saw her reluctance , and , by intuition rather than reason , he knew that what she would not do for gaiety or pleasure she would consent to , if by so doing she could render any service to another . 
So he went on . 
`` I can not go to church wi ' thee , Philip ; and thou must not ask me any further . 
Philip was on the point of urging her afresh to go with them to church ; but something in her eyes brought a thought across his mind , as transitory as a breath passes over a looking-glass , and he desisted from his entreaty , and put away his thought as a piece of vain coxcombry , insulting to Hester . 
But all this was as nothing to the distress which overwhelmed poor Bell Robson when she entered Philip 's house ; the parlour -- the whole place so associated with the keen agony she had undergone there , that the stab of memory penetrated through her deadened senses , and brought her back to misery . 
In vain Hester tried to console her by telling her the fact of Sylvia 's marriage with Philip in every form of words that occurred to her . 
Did it enter into Philip 's heart to perceive that he had wedded his long-sought bride in mourning raiment , and that the first sounds which greeted them as they approached their home were those of weeping and wailing ? 
And now Philip seemed as prosperous as his heart could desire . 
The business flourished , and money beyond his moderate wants came in . 
As for himself he required very little ; but he had always looked forward to placing his idol in a befitting shrine ; and means for this were now furnished to him . 
The dress , the comforts , the position he had desired for Sylvia were all hers . 
In this Philip vied with her ; for besides his old love , and new pity for his aunt Bell , he never forgot how she had welcomed him to Haytersbank , and favoured his love to Sylvia , in the yearning days when he little hoped he should ever win his cousin to be his wife . 
But even if he had not had these grateful and affectionate feelings towards the poor woman , he would have done much for her if only to gain the sweet , rare smiles which his wife never bestowed upon him so freely as when she saw him attending to `` mother , '' for so both of them now called Bell . 
For her creature comforts , her silk gowns , and her humble luxury , Sylvia did not care ; Philip was almost annoyed at the indifference she often manifested to all his efforts to surround her with such things . 
It is possible that Philip was right at one time when he had thought to win her by material advantages ; but the old vanities had been burnt out of her by the hot iron of acute suffering . 
She was quiet even to passiveness in all her dealings with Philip ; he would have given not a little for some of the old bursts of impatience , the old pettishness , which , naughty as they were , had gone to form his idea of the former Sylvia . 
Once or twice he was almost vexed with her for her docility ; he wanted her so much to have a will of her own , if only that he might know how to rouse her to pleasure by gratifying it . 
Indeed he seldom fell asleep at nights without his last thoughts being devoted to some little plan for the morrow , that he fancied she would like ; and when he wakened in the early dawn he looked to see if she were indeed sleeping by his side , or whether it was not all a dream that he called Sylvia `` wife . '' 
He was aware that her affection for him was not to be spoken of in the same way as his for her , but he found much happiness in only being allowed to love and cherish her ; and with the patient perseverance that was one remarkable feature in his character , he went on striving to deepen and increase her love when most other men would have given up the endeavour , made themselves content with half a heart , and turned to some other object of attainment . 
All this time Philip was troubled by a dream that recurred whenever he was over-fatigued , or otherwise not in perfect health . 
Over and over again in this first year of married life he dreamt this dream ; perhaps as many as eight or nine times , and it never varied . 
It was always of Kinraid 's return ; Kinraid was full of life in Philip 's dream , though in his waking hours he could and did convince himself by all the laws of probability that his rival was dead . 
He never remembered the exact sequence of events in that terrible dream after he had roused himself , with a fight and a struggle , from his feverish slumbers . 
He was generally sitting up in bed when he found himself conscious ; his heart beating wildly , with a conviction of Kinraid 's living presence somewhere near him in the darkness . 
Occasionally Sylvia was disturbed by his agitation , and would question him about his dreams , having , like most of her class at that time , great faith in their prophetic interpretation : but Philip never gave her any truth in his reply . 
After all , and though he did not acknowledge it even to himself , the long-desired happiness was not so delicious and perfect as he had anticipated . 
For many weeks after their wedding , Kester never came near them : a chance word or two from Sylvia showed Philip that she had noticed this and regretted it ; and , accordingly , he made it his business at the next leisure opportunity to go to Haytersbank -LRB- never saying a word to his wife of his purpose -RRB- , and seek out Kester . 
Children played before the house door ; a dog lying on the step flew at Philip ; all was so strange , that it was even the strangest thing of all for Kester to appear where everything else was so altered ! 
Philip had to put up with a good deal of crabbed behaviour on the part of the latter , before he could induce Kester to promise to come down into the town and see Sylvia in her new home . 
Philip never said how he himself had brought it to pass , nor did he name the fact that he had heard the old man come in just as he himself had intended going into the parlour for tea , but had kept away , as he thought Sylvia and Kester would most enjoy their interview undisturbed . 
By slow degrees Hester was learning to love the woman , whose position as Philip 's wife she would have envied so keenly had she not been so truly good and pious . 
She was more thankful than she knew how to express towards any one who made her mother happy ; as has been already said , the contributing to Bell Robson 's pleasures earned Philip more of his wife 's smiles than anything else . 
She turned the heads of John and Jeremiah Foster , who could hardly congratulate Philip enough on his choice of a wife . 
They had been prepared to be critical on one who had interfered with their favourite project of a marriage between Philip and Hester ; and , though full of compassion for the cruelty of Daniel Robson 's fate , they were too completely men of business not to have some apprehension that the connection of Philip Hepburn with the daughter of a man who was hanged , might injure the shop over which both his and their name appeared . 
Sylvia was dismayed when she was bidden to this wedding feast , and Philip had to use all his authority , though tenderly , to make her consent to go at all . 
She would fain have made attendance on her mother an excuse ; but Philip knew he must not listen to any such plea , and applied to Hester in the dilemma , asking her to remain with Mrs. Robson while he and Sylvia went out visiting ; and Hester had willingly , nay , eagerly consented -- it was much more to her taste than going out . 
So Philip and Sylvia set out , arm-in-arm , down Bridge Street , across the bridge , and then clambered up the hill . 
On the way he gave her the directions she asked for about her behaviour as bride and most honoured guest ; and altogether succeeded , against his intention and will , in frightening her so completely as to the grandeur and importance of the occasion , and the necessity of remembering certain set rules , and making certain set speeches and attending to them when the right time came , that , if any one so naturally graceful could have been awkward , Sylvia would have been so that night . 
As it was , she sate , pale and weary-looking , on the very edge of her chair ; she uttered the formal words which Philip had told her were appropriate to the occasion , and she heartily wished herself safe at home and in bed . 
Yet she left but one unanimous impression on the company when she went away , namely , that she was the prettiest and best-behaved woman they had ever seen , and that Philip Hepburn had done well in choosing her , felon 's daughter though she might be . 
Both the hosts had followed her into the lobby to help Philip in cloaking her , and putting on her pattens . 
Philip smiled as if the day would never come when he should neglect or ill-use his darling ; Sylvia smiled a little , without much attending to , or caring for , the words that were detaining her , tired as she was ; John and Jeremiah chuckled over the joke ; but the words came up again in after days , as words idly spoken sometimes do . 
Before the end of that first year , Philip had learnt to be jealous of his wife 's new love for Hester . 
To the latter , Sylvia gave the free confidence on many things which Philip fancied she withheld from him . 
A suspicion crossed his mind , from time to time , that Sylvia might speak of her former lover to Hester . 
But , by-and-by , the time came when she was a prisoner in the house ; a prisoner in her room , lying in bed with a little baby by her side -- her child , Philip 's child . 
His pride , his delight knew no bounds ; this was a new fast tie between them ; this would reconcile her to the kind of life that , with all its respectability and comfort , was so different from what she had lived before , and which Philip had often perceived that she felt to be dull and restraining . 
He already began to trace in the little girl , only a few days old , the lovely curves that he knew so well by heart in the mother 's face . 
For its irrevocableness had weighed much upon her with a sense of dull hopelessness ; she felt all Philip 's kindness , she was grateful to him for his tender regard towards her mother , she was learning to love him as well as to like and respect him . 
`` Philip , '' said Sylvia , one night , as he sate as still as a mouse in her room , imagining her to be asleep . 
`` I niver thought any name in a ' the world so sweet and pretty as Sylvia , '' said Philip , fondly ; but she was too much absorbed in her own thoughts to notice either his manner or his words . 
`` I got it for thee , '' said Philip , a little disappointed . 
She lifted her pale face from her pillow , and put up her lips to kiss him for these words . 
Perhaps on that day Philip reached the zenith of his life 's happiness . 
The first step in Philip 's declension happened in this way . 
One afternoon Philip had stolen upstairs to look at her and his child ; but the efforts he made at careful noiselessness made the door creak on its hinges as he opened it . 
The woman employed to nurse her had taken the baby into another room that no sound might rouse her from her slumber ; and Philip would probably have been warned against entering the chamber where his wife lay sleeping had be been perceived by the nurse . 
As it was he opened the door , made a noise , and Sylvia started up , her face all one flush , her eyes wild and uncertain ; she looked about her as if she did not know where she was ; pushed the hair off her hot forehead ; all which actions Philip saw , dismayed and regretful . 
But he kept still , hoping that she would lie down and compose herself . 
Philip 's heart boiled within him ; any man 's would under the circumstances , but he had the sense of guilty concealment to aggravate the intensity of his feelings . 
Her weak cry after another man , too , irritated him , partly through his anxious love , which made him wise to know how much physical harm she was doing herself . 
At this moment he stirred , or unintentionally made some sound ; she started up afresh , and called out , `` Oh , who 's theere ? 
`` It 's me , '' said Philip , coming forwards , striving to keep down the miserable complication of love and jealousy , and remorse and anger , that made his heart beat so wildly , and almost took him out of himself . 
Indeed , he must have been quite beside himself for the time , or he could never have gone on to utter the unwise , cruel words he did . 
`` Oh , Philip , I 've been asleep , and yet I think I was awake ! 
Urged by passionate feelings of various kinds , and also by his desire to quench the agitation which was doing her harm , Philip spoke , hardly knowing what he said . 
In a moment he could have bitten out his tongue . 
She looked at him with the mute reproach which some of us see -LRB- God help us ! -RRB- 
Philip 's wild tones caught the nurse 's ears , and she entered full of the dignified indignation of wisdom . 
Philip , who did not see the averted face , nor understand the real danger in which he was placing his wife , felt as though he must have one word , one responsive touch of the hand which lay passive in his , which was not even drawn away from the kisses with which he covered it , any more than if it had been an impassive stone . 
The nurse had fairly to take him by the shoulders , and turn him out of the room . 
Of course , the nurse gave him her version of the events of the afternoon , with much animus against Philip ; and the doctor thought it his duty to have some very serious conversation with him . 
replied Philip , in a low , miserable tone of voice . 
And so on ; but Philip seemed to hear only this : then he might not express contrition , or sue for pardon , he must go on unforgiven through all this stress of anxiety ; and even if she recovered the doctor warned him of the undesirableness of recurring to what had passed ! 
Heavy miserable times of endurance and waiting have to be passed through by all during the course of their live ; and Philip had had his share of such seasons , when the heart and the will and the speech and the limbs must be bound down with strong resolution to patience . 
For many days , nay , for weeks , he was forbidden to see Sylvia , as the very sound of his footstep brought on a recurrence of the fever and convulsive movement . 
She was quiet enough when at length Philip was allowed to see her . 
But he was half jealous of his child , when he watched how she could smile at it , while she never changed a muscle of her face at all he could do or say . 
And of a piece with this extreme quietude and reserve was her behaviour to him when at length she had fully recovered , and was able to go about the house again . 
Philip thought many a time of the words she had used long before -- before their marriage . 
Philip was tender even to humility in his conduct towards her . 
And he knew she was so different ; he knew how loving , nay , passionate , was her nature -- vehement , demonstrative -- oh ! 
how could he stir her once more into expression , even if the first show or speech she made was of anger ? 
Then he tried being angry with her himself ; he was sometimes unjust to her consciously and of a purpose , in order to provoke her into defending herself , and appealing against his unkindness . 
He only seemed to drive her love away still more . 
But Philip could not reason , or could not yield to reason ; and so he complained and reproached . 
She did not much answer him ; but he thought that her eyes expressed the old words , `` It 's not in me to forgive ; I sometimes think it 's not in me to forget . '' 
Philip had other thoughts and other occupations than those connected with his wife during all this time . 
Now she was married , this weekly church-going which Philip seemed to expect from her , became a tie and a small hardship , which connected itself with her life of respectability and prosperity . 
Another wish of Philip 's , against which she said no word , but constantly rebelled in thought and deed , was his desire that the servant he had engaged during the time of her illness to take charge of the baby , should always carry it whenever it was taken out for a walk . 
He was dead ; he must be dead ; for was she not Philip 's wife ? 
Then came up the recollection of Philip 's speech , never forgotten , only buried out of sight : `` What kind of a woman are yo ' , to go on dreaming of another man , and yo ' a wedded wife ! '' 
Such fancies haunted Philip 's mind for hours after she had acknowledged the direction of her walks . 
But he never said a word that could distinctly tell her he disliked her going to the sea , otherwise she would have obeyed him in this , as in everything else ; for absolute obedience to her husband seemed to be her rule of life at this period -- obedience to him who would so gladly have obeyed her smallest wish had she but expressed it ! 
She never knew that Philip had any painful association with the particular point on the sea-shore that she instinctively avoided , both from a consciousness of wifely duty , and also because the sight of it brought up so much sharp pain . 
Philip used to wonder if the dream that preceded her illness was the suggestive cause that drew her so often to the shore . 
Her illness consequent upon that dream had filled his mind , so that for many months he himself had had no haunting vision of Kinraid to disturb his slumbers . 
But now the old dream of Kinraid 's actual presence by Philip 's bedside began to return with fearful vividness . 
Night after night it recurred ; each time with some new touch of reality , and close approach ; till it was as if the fate that overtakes all men , were then , even then , knocking at his door . 
In his business Philip prospered . 
Men praised him because he did well to himself . 
He had the perseverance , the capability for head-work and calculation , the steadiness and general forethought which might have made him a great merchant if he had lived in a large city . 
Without any effort of his own , almost , too , without Coulson 's being aware of it , Philip was now in the position of superior partner ; the one to suggest and arrange , while Coulson only carried out the plans that emanated from Philip . 
The whole work of life was suited to the man ; he did not aspire to any different position , only to the full development of the capabilities of that which he already held . 
He had originated several fresh schemes with regard to the traffic of the shop ; and his old masters , with all their love of tried ways , and distrust of everything new , had been candid enough to confess that their successor 's plans had resulted in success . 
Philip was content with having the power when the exercise of it was required , and never named his own important share in the new improvements . 
Possibly , if he had , Coulson 's vanity might have taken the alarm , and he might not have been so acquiescent for the future . 
As it was , he forgot his own subordinate share , and always used the imperial `` we , '' `` we thought , '' `` it struck us , '' & c. Meanwhile Hester came and went as usual ; in so quiet and methodical a way , with so even and undisturbed a temper , that she was almost forgotten when everything went well in the shop or household . 
She had not thought she should ever be able to love the woman who had been such a laggard in acknowledging Philip 's merits ; and from all she had ever heard of Sylvia before she came to know her , from the angry words with which Sylvia had received her when she had first gone to Haytersbank Farm , Hester had intended to remain on friendly terms , but to avoid intimacy . 
Now the very change in Sylvia 's whole manner and ways , which grieved and vexed Philip , made his wife the more attractive to Hester . 
Philip looked older , more care-worn ; nay , even Hester was obliged to allow to herself that she had heard him speak to his wife in sharp aggrieved tones . 
One day -- it was in the spring of 1798 -- Hester was engaged to stay to tea with the Hepburns , in order that after that early meal she might set to again in helping Philip and Coulson to pack away the winter cloths and flannels , for which there was no longer any use . 
Once or twice Philip looked in , as if he would be glad to see the tea-table in readiness ; and then Phoebe would put on a spurt of busy bustle , which ceased almost as soon as his back was turned , so eager was she to obtain Mrs. Robson 's sympathy in some little dispute that had occurred between her and the nursemaid . 
Both the women were unaware of the lapse of time ; but it was of consequence to Philip , as the extra labour was not to be begun until after tea , and the daylight hours were precious . 
Philip spoke to Phoebe in the familiar words of country-folk . 
Indeed , until his marriage , Phoebe had always called him by his Christian name , and had found it very difficult to change it into `` master . '' 
said he . 
asked Philip . 
It was touching on the old grievance : he was tired , and he spoke with sharp annoyance . 
Phoebe might easily have told him the real state of the case ; Nancy was busy at her washing , which would have been reason enough . 
But the nursemaid had vexed her , and she did not like Philip 's sharpness , so she only said , `` It 's noane o ' my business ; it 's yo ' t ' look after yo ' r own wife and child ; but yo ' r but a lad after a ' . '' 
This was not a conciliatory speech , and just put the last stroke to Philip 's fit of ill-temper . 
`` I 'm not for my tea to-night , '' said he , to Hester , when all was ready . 
`` Nay , Philip , '' said Hester , `` thou 's sadly tired ; just take this cup o ' tea ; Sylvia 'll be grieved if yo ' have n't something . '' 
Now in general Philip was the least particular of men about meals ; and to do Sylvia justice , she was scrupulously attentive to every household duty in which old Phoebe would allow her to meddle , and always careful to see after her husband 's comforts . 
But Philip was too vexed at her absence to perceive the injustice of what he was saying , nor was he aware how Bell Robson had been attending to what he said . 
But she was sadly discomfited by it , understanding just enough of the grievance in hand to think that her daughter was neglectful of those duties which she herself had always regarded as paramount to all others ; nor could Hester convince her that Philip had not meant what he said ; neither could she turn the poor old woman 's thoughts from the words which had caused her distress . 
`` Philip 's been complaining on thee , Sylvie , '' said Bell , in the way in which she had spoken to her daughter when she was a little child ; grave and severe in tone and look , more than in words . 
`` Philip been complaining of me , and to mother ! '' 
Hester lingered , anxious to soothe and make peace ; she was looking sorrowfully at Sylvia , when she saw tears dropping on the baby 's cloak , and then it seemed as if she must speak a word of comfort before going to the shop-work , where she knew she was expected by both Philip and Coulson . 
Sylvia held the cup and plate of bread and butter out to Philip , but avoided meeting his eye , and said not a word of explanation or regret , or self-justification . 
If she had spoken , though ever so crossly , Philip would have been relieved , and would have preferred it to her silence . 
He wanted to provoke her to speech , but did not know how to begin . 
said he . 
She did not answer him . 
At this , she looked up at him , and her lips moved as though she were going to say something . 
Oh , how he wished she would , that they might come to a wholesome quarrel , and a making friends again , and a tender kissing , in which he might whisper penitence for all his hasty words , or unreasonable vexation . 
`` Philip , mother has n't many more years to live ; dunnot grieve her , and set her again me by finding fault wi ' me afore her . 
he called after her . 
He went after her and seized her by the arm rather roughly ; she had stung him to the heart with her calm words , which seemed to reveal a long-formed conviction . 
said he , almost fiercely , `` what do yo ' mean by what yo 've said ? 
He almost shook her : she was half frightened by his vehemence of behaviour , which she took for pure anger , while it was the outburst of agonized and unrequited love . 
Oh , Philip , yo ' hurt me ! '' 
Just at this moment Hester came up ; Philip was ashamed of his passionate ways in her serene presence , and loosened his grasp of his wife , and she ran away ; ran into her mother 's empty room , as to a solitary place , and there burst into that sobbing , miserable crying which we instinctively know is too surely lessening the length of our days on earth to be indulged in often . 
When she had exhausted that first burst and lay weak and quiet for a time , she listened in dreading expectation of the sound of his footstep coming in search of her to make friends . 
But he was detained below on business , and never came . 
I would ha ' been at home to his tea , if I could ; but when he does n't want me , and mother does n't want me , and baby is either in my arms or asleep ; why , I 'll go and cry my fill out under yon great quiet sky . 
I can not stay in t ' house to be choked up wi ' my tears , nor yet to have him coming about me either for scolding or peace-making . '' 
Nancy had gone to bed , Phoebe dozed in the kitchen ; Philip was still in the ware-room , arranging goods and taking stock along with Coulson , for Hester had gone home to her mother . 
Sylvia was not willing to go and seek out Philip , after the manner in which they had parted . 
She found Mrs. Robson awake , and restless , and ailing ; dwelling much on what Philip had said in his anger against Sylvia . 
It was really necessary for her daughter to remain with her ; so Sylvia stole out , and went quickly downstairs to Philip -- now sitting tired and worn out , and eating his supper with little or no appetite -- and told him she meant to pass the night with her mother . 
His answer of acquiescence was so short and careless , or so it seemed to her , that she did not tell him any more of what she had done or seen that evening , or even dwell upon any details of her mother 's indisposition . 
As soon as she had left the room , Philip set down his half-finished basin of bread and milk , and sate long , his face hidden in his folded arms . 
The wick of the candle grew long and black , and fell , and sputtered , and guttered ; he sate on , unheeding either it or the pale grey fire that was dying out -- dead at last . 
Her mother was talking in a half-conscious way ; Philip 's speech of the evening before was evidently running in her mind . 
And then she began to cry pitifully , and to say unconnected things , till Sylvia , to soothe her , took her hand , and promised never to leave the house without asking her husband 's permission , though in making this promise , she felt as if she were sacrificing her last pleasure to her mother 's wish ; for she knew well enough that Philip would always raise objections to the rambles which reminded her of her old free open-air life . 
But to comfort and cherish her mother she would have done anything ; yet this very morning that was dawning , she must go and ask his permission for a simple errand , or break her word . 
Now she must go and ask Philip ; and till she held her baby to her breast , she bitterly wished that she were free from the duties and chains of matrimony . 
She gave it back to Nancy to be dressed , and softly opened the door of Philip 's bed-room . 
`` Philip ! '' 
`` Philip ! '' 
He started up from dreams of her ; of her , angry . 
He saw her there , rather pale with her night 's watch and anxiety , but looking meek , and a little beseeching . 
`` Thou 's not wear thyself out with running , Sylvie , '' said Philip , eagerly ; `` I 'll get up and go myself , or perhaps , '' continued he , catching the shadow that was coming over her face , `` thou 'd rather go thyself : it 's only that I 'm so afraid of thy tiring thyself . '' 
`` Well , go if thou will , '' said Philip . 
She had got her hat and shawl , and was off before he had finished his last words . 
`` Did not your cousin -- Hepburn , I mean -- did not he tell you ? 
-- he saw the press-gang seize me , -- I gave him a message to you -- I bade you keep true to me as I would be to you . '' 
When he had ended , she was silent for a moment , then she cried out shrill and fierce , `` Philip ! '' 
Wilder and shriller still , `` Philip ! '' 
The officer turned fiercely round , and would have come towards Philip , who was so bewildered by the scene that even yet he did not understand who the stranger was , did not perceive for an instant that he saw the realization of his greatest dread . 
Philip did not know her voice , it was so changed . 
`` Philip , '' she said , `` this is Kinraid come back again to wed me . 
Philip knew not what to say , whither to turn , under what refuge of words or acts to shelter . 
Sylvia 's influence was keeping Kinraid silent , but he was rapidly passing beyond it . 
he cried , loosening himself from Sylvia 's light grasp , and coming towards Philip , with a threatening gesture . 
His closed fist was up to strike the man , who hung his head with bitterest shame and miserable self-reproach ; but Sylvia came swift between the blow and its victim . 
Philip , theere , where he stands , could tell yo ' this was true . 
Philip , was n't it so ? '' 
`` And feyther was taken up , and all for setting some free as t ' press-gang had gotten by a foul trick ; and he were put i ' York prison , and tried , and hung ! 
Philip came forwards and took hold of her to pull her away ; but Charley held her tight , mutely defying Philip . 
Unconsciously she was Philip 's protection , in that hour of danger , from a blow which might have been his death if strong will could have aided it to kill . 
said he , grasping her tight . 
He looked at her with feverish eager wistfulness ; it faded away into despair as she made no sign of having even heard his words . 
He let go his hold of her , and his arm fell loosely by his side . 
`` I may die , '' he said , `` for my life is ended ! '' 
He pulled it out from his bosom , tied by a black ribbon round his neck . 
His arm was round her waist , and he was drawing her towards the door , his face all crimson with eagerness and hope . 
Philip stood near her , motionless : he did not know whether she was conscious of his presence ; in fact , he knew nothing but that he and she were sundered for ever ; he could only take in that one idea , and it numbed all other thought . 
She rose to her feet , but staggered when she tried to walk ; her glazed eyes fell upon Philip as he instinctively made a step to hold her steady . 
That was the first even of which Philip took note ; but Phoebe had come in unawares to him , with the intention of removing the breakfast things on her return from market , and seeing them unused , and knowing that Sylvia had sate up all night with her mother , she had gone back to the kitchen . 
Philip had neither seen nor heard her . 
Now Coulson came in , amazed at Hepburn 's nonappearance in the shop . 
Philip , what 's ado ? 
exclaimed he , thoroughly alarmed by Philip 's ghastly appearance . 
said Philip , slowly gathering his thoughts . 
His instinct , quicker to act than his reason , made his shrink from his misery being noticed , much more made any subject for explanation or sympathy . 
He almost guarded Philip into the shop , and kept furtively watching him , and perplexing himself with Philip 's odd , strange ways . 
Hester , too , observed the heavy broken-down expression on Philip 's ashen face , and her heart ached for him ; but after that first glance , which told her so much , she avoided all appearance of noticing or watching . 
Only a shadow brooded over her sweet , calm face , and once or twice she sighed to herself . 
Among the pieces of news , the rescue of the smack the night before furnished a large topic ; and by-and-by Philip heard a name that startled him into attention . 
All the people in the shop were listening now ; Philip alone seemed engrossed in folding up a piece of cloth , so as to leave no possible chance of creases in it ; yet he lost not a syllable of the good woman 's narration . 
So they , an ' some others as brave , went off , an ' did their work , an ' choose whativer it was , they did it famously ; but they got caught by them French , an ' were clapped into prison i ' France for iver so long ; but at last one Philip -- Philip somethin' -LRB- he were a Frenchman , I know -RRB- -- helped 'em to escape , in a fishin ' - boat . 
A murmur of applause and interest and rejoicing buzzed all around Philip . 
All Monkshaven might hear to-morrow -- nay , to-day -- of Philip 's treachery to the hero of the hour ; how he had concealed his fate , and supplanted him in his love . 
Philip shrank from the burst of popular indignation which he knew must follow . 
Philip knew this quite well ; his doom of disgrace lay plain before him , if only Kinraid spoke the word . 
His head was bent down while he thus listened and reflected . 
He half resolved on doing something ; he lifted up his head , caught the reflection of his face in the little strip of glass on the opposite side , in which the women might look at themselves in their contemplated purchases , and quite resolved . 
The sight he saw in the mirror was his own long , sad , pale face , made plainer and greyer by the heavy pressure of the morning 's events . 
He saw his stooping figure , his rounded shoulders , with something like a feeling of disgust at his personal appearance as he remembered the square , upright build of Kinraid ; his fine uniform , with epaulette and sword-belt ; his handsome brown face ; his dark eyes , splendid with the fire of passion and indignation ; his white teeth , gleaming out with the terrible smile of scorn . 
The comparison drove Philip from passive hopelessness to active despair . 
He went abruptly from the crowded shop into the empty parlour , and on into the kitchen , where he took up a piece of bread , and heedless of Phoebe 's look and words , began to eat it before he even left the place ; for he needed the strength that food would give ; he needed it to carry him out of the sight and the knowledge of all who might hear what he had done , and point their fingers at him . 
He paused a moment in the parlour , and then , setting his teeth tight together , he went upstairs . 
First of all he went into the bit of a room opening out of theirs , in which his baby slept . 
He dearly loved the child , and many a time would run in and play a while with it ; and in such gambols he and Sylvia had passed their happiest moments of wedded life . 
The little Bella was having her morning slumber ; Nancy used to tell long afterwards how he knelt down by the side of her cot , and was so strange she thought he must have prayed , for all it was nigh upon eleven o'clock , and folk in their senses only said their prayers when they got up , and when they went to bed . 
Then he rose , and stooped over , and gave the child a long , lingering , soft , fond kiss . 
And on tip-toe he passed away into the room where his aunt lay ; his aunt who had been so true a friend to him ! 
He was thankful to know that in her present state she was safe from the knowledge of what was past , safe from the sound of the shame to come . 
He had not meant to see Sylvia again ; he dreaded the look of her hatred , her scorn , but there , outside her mother 's bed , she lay , apparently asleep . 
Philip could not help it ; he went to have one last look at his wife . 
She was turned towards her mother , her face averted from him ; he could see the tear-stains , the swollen eye-lids , the lips yet quivering : he stooped down , and bent to kiss the little hand that lay listless by her side . 
As his hot breath neared that hand it was twitched away , and a shiver ran through the whole prostrate body . 
And then he knew that she was not asleep , only worn out by her misery , -- misery that he had caused . 
He sighed heavily ; but he went away , downstairs , and away for ever . 
Only as he entered the parlour his eyes caught on two silhouettes , one of himself one of Sylvia , done in the first month of their marriage , by some wandering artist , if so he could be called . 
They were hanging against the wall in little oval wooden frames ; black profiles , with the lights done in gold ; about as poor semblances of humanity as could be conceived ; but Philip went up , and after looking for a minute or so at Sylvia 's , he took it down , and buttoned his waistcoat over it . 
It was the only thing he took away from his home . 
He went down the entry on to the quay . 
But many people were there , if such a temptation presented itself to Philip 's mind ; the sight of his fellow-townsmen , perhaps of his acquaintances , drove him up another entry -- the town is burrowed with such -- back into the High Street , which he straightway crossed into a well-known court , out of which rough steps led to the summit of the hill , and on to the fells and moors beyond . 
He plunged and panted up this rough ascent . 
From the top he could look down on the whole town lying below , severed by the bright shining river into two parts . 
To the right lay the sea , shimmering and heaving ; there were the cluster of masts rising out of the little port ; the irregular roofs of the houses ; which of them , thought he , as he carried his eye along the quay side to the market-place , which of them was his ? 
and he singled it out in its unfamiliar aspect , and saw the thin blue smoke rising from the kitchen chimney , where even now Phoebe was cooking the household meal that he never more must share . 
Up at that thought and away , he knew not and cared not whither . 
He went through the ploughed fields where the corn was newly springing ; he came down upon the vast sunny sea , and turned his back upon it with loathing ; he made his way inland to the high green pastures ; the short upland turf above which the larks hung poised `` at heaven 's gate . '' 
He strode along , so straight and heedless of briar and bush , that the wild black cattle ceased from grazing , and looked after him with their great blank puzzled eyes . 
He had passed all enclosures and stone fences now , and was fairly on the desolate brown moors ; through the withered last year 's ling and fern , through the prickly gorse , he tramped , crushing down the tender shoots of this year 's growth , and heedless of the startled plover 's cry , goaded by the furies . 
His only relief from thought , from the remembrance of Sylvia 's looks and words , was in violent bodily action . 
So he went on till evening shadows and ruddy evening lights came out upon the wild fells . 
He had crossed roads and lanes , with a bitter avoidance of men 's tracks ; but now the strong instinct of self-preservation came out , and his aching limbs , his weary heart , giving great pants and beats for a time , and then ceasing altogether till a mist swam and quivered before his aching eyes , warned him that he must find some shelter and food , or lie down to die . 
He fell down now , often ; stumbling over the slightest obstacle . 
He had passed the cattle pastures ; he was among the black-faced sheep ; and they , too , ceased nibbling , and looked after him , and somehow in his poor wandering imagination their silly faces turned to likenesses of Monkshaven people , -- people who ought to be far , far away . 
Philip looked abroad to see whence the voice proceeded . 
Philip did not answer , but staggered and stumbled towards him . 
Philip rallied himself , and tried to speak up to the old standard of respectability ; but the effort was pitiful to see , had any one been by , who could have understood the pain it caused to restrain cries of bodily and mental agony . 
Philip followed faintly . 
He could not see before him , and was guided by the sound of footsteps rather than by the sight of the figure moving onwards . 
He kept stumbling ; and he knew that the old shepherd swore at him ; but he also knew such curses proceeded from no ill-will , only from annoyance at the delay in going and `` seein ' after t ' ewes . '' 
But had the man 's words conveyed the utmost expression of hatred , Philip would neither have wondered at them , nor resented them . 
So he went no , and delivered Philip safely up to the landlord . 
said Philip , sitting down on the first chair he came to . 
`` I 'm right enough ; just fairly wearied out : lost my way , '' and he fainted . 
He , too , like Philip , had lost his way ; but was turning his blunder to account by telling all manner of wonderful stories to two or three rustics who had come in ready to drink on any pretence ; especially if they could get good liquor without paying for it . 
The sergeant rose as Philip fell back , and brought up his own mug of beer , into which a noggin of gin had been put -LRB- called in Yorkshire `` dog 's - nose '' -RRB- . 
He partly poured and partly spilt some of this beverage on Philip 's face ; some drops went through the pale and parted lips , and with a start the worn-out man revived . 
The sergeant asked for pepper and salt ; minced the food fine and made it savoury , and kept administering it by teaspoonfuls ; urging Philip to drink from time to time from his own cup of dog 's - nose . 
A burning thirst , which needed no stimulant from either pepper or salt , took possession of Philip , and he drank freely , scarcely recognizing what he drank . 
It took effect on one so habitually sober ; and he was soon in that state when the imagination works wildly and freely . 
He saw the sergeant before him , handsome , and bright , and active , in his gay red uniform , without a care , as it seemed to Philip , taking life lightly ; admired and respected everywhere because of his cloth . 
If Philip were gay , and brisk , well-dressed like him , returning with martial glory to Monkshaven , would not Sylvia love him once more ? 
Could not he win her heart ? 
He was brave by nature , and the prospect of danger did not daunt him , if ever it presented itself to his imagination . 
He thought he was cautious in entering on the subject of enlistment with his new friend , the sergeant ; but the latter was twenty times as cunning as he , and knew by experience how to bait his hook . 
Philip was older by some years than the regulation age ; but , at that time of great demand for men , the question of age was lightly entertained . 
Philip 's dizzy head thought the subject over and over again , each time with failing power of reason . 
At length , almost , as it would seem , by some sleight of hand , he found the fatal shilling in his palm , and had promised to go before the nearest magistrate to be sworn in as one of his Majesty 's marines the next morning . 
He wakened up in a little truckle-bed in the same room as the sergeant , who lay sleeping the sleep of full contentment ; while gradually , drop by drop , the bitter recollections of the day before came , filling up Philip 's cup of agony . 
He knew that he had received the bounty-money ; and though he was aware that he had been partly tricked into it , and had no hope , no care , indeed , for any of the advantages so liberally promised him the night before , yet he was resigned , with utterly despondent passiveness , to the fate to which he had pledged himself . 
Anything was welcome that severed him from his former life , that could make him forget it , if that were possible ; and also welcome anything which increased the chances of death without the sinfulness of his own participation in the act . 
He found in the dark recess of his mind the dead body of his fancy of the previous night ; that he might come home , handsome and glorious , to win the love that had never been his . 
But he only sighed over it , and put it aside out of his sight -- so full of despair was he . 
He could eat no breakfast , though the sergeant ordered of the best . 
But Philip walked with him the two or three miles in the most submissive silence , never uttering a syllable of regret or repentance ; and before Justice Cholmeley , of Holm-Fell Hall , he was sworn into his Majesty 's service , under the name of Stephen Freeman . 
After Philip had passed out of the room , Sylvia lay perfectly still , from very exhaustion . 
`` Where is Hepburn ? '' 
`` He ought to be here ! '' 
It was the latter who replied , `` He 's neither i ' t ' house nor i ' t ' shop . 
A seed him go past t ' kitchen window better nor an hour ago ; but neither William Coulson or Hester Rose knows where he 's gone to . '' 
He went downstairs to make inquiry for Philip ; that poor young creature , about whose health he had never felt thoroughly satisfied since the fever after her confinement , was in an anxious condition , and with an inevitable shock awaiting her . 
If he had felt anxious about Philip 's looks and strange disappearance , he had also managed to account for them in some indifferent way . 
She was resting her head on her hand , and puzzled and distressed about many things -- all that was implied by the proceedings of the evening before between Philip and Sylvia ; and that was confirmed by Philip 's miserable looks , and strange abstracted ways to-day . 
But again , how easy would it have been to her to tread the maze that led to Philip 's happiness ; and how difficult it seemed to the wife he had chosen ! 
`` So both Coulson and Hepburn have left the shop to your care , Hester . 
I want Hepburn , though ; his wife is in a very anxious state . 
Where is he ? 
No news of Philip , no change in Sylvia ; an unceasing flow of angling and conjecture and gossip radiating from the shop into the town . 
`` This life is full o ' changes o ' one kind or another ; them that 's dead is alive ; and as for poor Philip , though he was alive , he looked fitter to be dead when he came into t ' shop o ' Wednesday morning . '' 
Philip saw him . 
Philip had known as he was n't dead a ' this time ! '' 
I told Philip my mind , and took a vow again him -- but it would be awful to think on harm happening to him through Kinraid . 
Yet he went out that morning , and has niver been seen or heard on sin ' ; and Kinraid were just fell again him , and as for that matter , so was I ; but -- '' The red spot vanished as she faced her own imagination . 
What day an ' time were it when Philip left this house ? '' 
I saw him in her room that morning between breakfast and dinner ; I could a ' most swear to its being close after eleven . 
A word fra ' him would ha ' mended it a ' ; and Charley had bid him speak the word , and give me his faithful love , and Philip saw my heart ache day after day , and niver let on as him I was mourning for was alive , and had sent me word as he 'd keep true to me , as I were to do to him . '' 
`` A wish a 'd been theere ; a 'd ha ' felled him to t ' ground , '' said Kester , clenching his stiff , hard hand with indignation . 
Then she said , `` Yet he were so good to mother ; and mother loved him so . 
Think yo ' now as Philip is livin ' ? '' 
I said such things ; he deserved 'em all -- '' `` Well , well , lass ! '' 
`` Neither thee nor me can tell ; we can neither help nor hinder , seein ' as he 's ta'en hissel ' off out on our sight , we 'd best not think on him . 
About three weeks after the miserable date of Bell Robson 's death and Philip 's disappearance , Hester Rose received a letter from him . 
`` Your affectionate and obedient friend to command , `` Philip Hepburn . 
She had no home to go to ; for as Philip was gone away , she remained where she was only on sufferance ; she did not know what means of livelihood she had ; she was willing to work , nay , would be thankful to take up her old life of country labour ; but with her baby , what could she do ? 
Though public opinion as yet reserved its verdict upon Philip 's disappearance -- warned possibly by Kinraid 's story against hasty decisions and judgments in such times as those of war and general disturbance -- yet every one agreed that no more pitiful fate could have befallen Philip 's wife . 
For the general opinion was that Philip had been `` carried off '' -- in sea-port towns such occurrences were not uncommon in those days -- either by land-crimps or water-crimps . 
`` More than her father , '' he went on , purposely introducing Philip 's name , so as to break the ice ; for he rightly conjectured she had come to speak to him about something connected with her husband . 
`` It 's about Philip as I comed to speak . 
Philip 'll come back before the year 's out ; thee ` lt see that . '' 
`` No ; he 'll niver come back . 
And I 'm not sure as I should iver wish him t ' come back , if I could but know what was gone wi ' him . 
Yo ' see , sir , though I were sore set again him , I should n't like harm to happen him . '' 
And mother were so found o ' Philip ; but he kept something from me as would ha ' made me a different woman , and some one else , happen , a different man . 
`` Philip knew he were alive ; he 'd seen him taken by t ' press-gang , and Charley had sent a message to me by Philip . '' 
`` And he niver told me a word on it , not when he saw me like to break my heart in thinking as Kinraid were dead ; he kept it a ' to hissel ' ; and watched me cry , and niver said a word to comfort me wi ' t ' truth . 
It would ha ' been a great comfort , sir , only t ' have had his message if I 'd niver ha ' been to see him again . 
But Philip niver let on to any one , as I iver heared on , that he 'd seen Charley that morning as t ' press-gang took him . 
`` Upon a Tuesday morning , three weeks ago , I think , tho ' for t ' matter o ' time it might ha ' been three years , Kinraid come home ; come back for t ' claim me as his wife , and I were wed to Philip ! 
I met him i ' t ' road at first ; and I could n't tell him theere . 
He followed me into t ' house -- Philip 's house , sir , behind t ' shop -- and somehow I told him all , how I were a wedded wife to another . 
Then he up and said I 'd a false heart -- me false , sir , as had eaten my daily bread in bitterness , and had wept t ' nights through , all for sorrow and mourning for his death ! 
Then he said as Philip knowed all t ' time he were alive and coming back for me ; and I could n't believe it , and I called Philip , and he come , and a ' that Charley had said were true ; and yet I were Philip 's wife ! 
So I took a mighty oath , and I said as I 'd niver hold Philip to be my lawful husband again , nor iver forgive him for t ' evil he 'd wrought us , but hold him as a stranger and one as had done me a heavy wrong . '' 
She were asleep , I thought , so I lay down by her , to wish I were dead , and to think on what would come on my child if I died ; and Philip came in softly , and I made as if I were asleep ; and that 's t ' very last as I 've iver seen or heared of him . '' 
Then he pulled himself up , and said in a cheerful tone of voice , `` He 'll come back , Sylvia Hepburn . 
He 'll think better of it : never fear ! '' 
`` I fear his coming back ! '' 
`` That 's what I 'm feared on ; I would wish as I knew on his well doing i ' some other place ; but him and me can niver live together again . '' 
It 's only the thought of mother -LRB- she 's dead and happy , and knows nought of all this , I trust -RRB- that comes between me and hating Philip . 
I ca n't think o ' that for remembering how I 've suffered ; and he knew how miserable I was , and might ha ' cleared my misery away wi ' a word ; and he held his peace , and now it 's too late ! 
And yet she recoiled from the application of such hard terms by another to Philip , by a cool-judging and indifferent person , as she esteemed Jeremiah to be . 
I know I mun not stay theere , and Philip gone away ; and I dunnot know what to do : and I 'll do aught , only I must keep her wi ' me . 
Hester had been prevented by her mother 's indisposition from taking Philip 's letter to the Fosters , to hold a consultation with them over its contents . 
All this came out in the conversation which ensued after reading Hepburn 's letter in the little parlour at the bank on the day after Sylvia had had her confidential interview with Jeremiah Foster . 
He recommended her remaining where she was , living still in the house behind the shop ; for he thought within himself that she might have exaggerated the effect of her words upon Philip ; that , after all , it might have been some cause totally disconnected with them , which had blotted out her husband 's place among the men of Monkshaven ; and that it would be so much easier for both to resume their natural relations , both towards each other and towards the world , if Sylvia remained where her husband had left her -- in an expectant attitude , so to speak . 
She looked at him as she replied to his inquiries , and he looked at her , each wondering if the other could be in the least aware that a conjugal quarrel might be at the root of the dilemma in which they were placed by Hepburn 's disappearance . 
But neither Hester , who had witnessed the misunderstanding between the husband and wife on the evening before the morning on which Philip went away , nor Jeremiah Foster , who had learnt from Sylvia the true reason of her husband 's disappearance , gave the slightest reason to the other to think that they each supposed they had a clue to the reason of Hepburn 's sudden departure . 
Philip 's share of the business , augmented by the money which he had put in from the legacy of his old Cumberland uncle , would bring in profits enough to support Sylvia and her child in ease and comfort until that time , which they all anticipated , when he should return from his mysterious wandering -- mysterious , whether his going forth had been voluntary or involuntary . 
If Sylvia had been able to make Philip happy , Hester could have felt lovingly and almost gratefully towards her ; but Sylvia had failed in this . 
Philip had been made unhappy , and was driven forth a wanderer into the wide world -- never to come back ! 
And his last words to Hester , the postscript of his letter , containing the very pith of it , was to ask her to take charge and care of the wife whose want of love towards him had uprooted him from the place where he was valued and honoured . 
It cost Hester many a struggle and many a self-reproach before she could make herself feel what she saw all along -- that in everything Philip treated her like a sister . 
Still Hester fought against herself , and for Philip 's sake she sought to see the good in Sylvia , and she strove to love her as well as to take care of her . 
Jeremiah Foster almost looked upon her as his own from the day when she honoured him by yielding to the temptation of the chain and seal , and coming to his knee ; not a customer to the shop but knew the smiling child 's sad history , and many a country-woman would save a rosy-cheeked apple from out her store that autumn to bring it on next market-day for `` Philip Hepburn 's baby , as had lost its father , bless it . '' 
And Hester , that Sylvia would fain have loved for her uniform gentleness and patience with all around her , seemed so cold in her unruffled and undemonstrative behaviour ; and moreover , Sylvia felt that Hester blamed her perpetual silence regarding Philip 's absence without knowing how bitter a cause Sylvia had for casting him off . 
And Philip , he thought o ' nothing but how he could get yo ' just such another , and he set a vast o ' folk agait for to meet wi ' its marrow ; and what he did just the very day afore he went away so mysterious was to write through Dawson Brothers , o ' Wakefield , to Dublin , and order that one should be woven for yo ' . 
and thee Philip 's wife as was such a great scholar ! 
There was our Hester , as can read as well as any minister , and Philip passes over her to go and choose a young lass as can not read her Bible . '' 
`` Was Philip and Hester -- '' Sylvia paused , for though a new curiosity had dawned upon her , she did not know how to word her question . 
`` Many a time and oft have I seen Hester take comfort in her Bible when Philip was following after thee . 
All this time Sylvia never lost the curiosity that had been excited by the few words Alice had let drop about Hester and Philip , and by degrees she approached the subject again , and had the idea then started confirmed by Alice , who had no scruple in using the past experience of her own , of her daughter 's , or of any one 's life , as an instrument to prove the vanity of setting the heart on anything earthly . 
For instance , she begged her to accept and wear the pretty poplin gown which had been Philip 's especial choice ; feeling within herself as if she should never wish to put it on , and as if the best thing she could do with it was to offer it to Hester . 
Hester tried to do all she could for Sylvia ; Philip had told her to take care of his wife and child ; but she had the conviction that Sylvia had so materially failed in her duties as to have made her husband an exile from his home -- a penniless wanderer , wifeless and childless , in some strange country , whose very aspect was friendless , while the cause of all lived on in the comfortable home where he had placed her , wanting for nothing -- an object of interest and regard to many friends -- with a lovely little child to give her joy for the present , and hope for the future ; while he , the poor outcast , might even lie dead by the wayside . 
When he could first remember , and form a judgment upon his recollections , he called the man especially charged to attend upon him , and bade him go and make inquiry in every possible manner for a marine named Philip Hepburn , and , when he was found , to entreat him to come and see Kinraid . 
The sailor was away the greater part of the day , and returned unsuccessful in his search ; he had been from ship to ship , hither and thither ; he had questioned all the marines he had met with , no one knew anything of any Philip Hepburn . 
Partly to soothe him , the doctor promised that he would undertake the search for Hepburn , and he engaged faithfully to follow all Kinraid 's eager directions ; not to be satisfied with men 's careless words , but to look over muster-rolls and ships ' books . 
He too brought the same answer , however unwillingly given . 
He had set out upon the search so confident of success , that he felt doubly discomfited by failure . 
However , he had persuaded himself that the lieutenant had been partially delirious from the effects of his wound , and the power of the sun shining down just where he lay . 
Kinraid threw his arms out of bed with impatience at all this plausible talk , which was even more irritating than the fact that Hepburn was still undiscovered . 
The attendant sailor , reinstalled to some complacency by the failure of another in the search in which he himself had been unsuccessful , now put in his explanation . 
It was a man named Philip Hepburn . 
He said words to me , or over me , as none but himself would have said . 
Yet we hated each other like poison ; and I ca n't make out why he should be there and putting himself in danger to save me . 
But so it was ; and as you ca n't find him , let me hear no more of your nonsense . 
It was him , and not my fancy , doctor . 
Of all that suffered by that fearful accident -LRB- and they were many -RRB- none was so forsaken , so hopeless , so desolate , as the Philip Hepburn about whom such anxious inquiries were being made at that very time . 
So one day farmer Dawson 's market cart deposited Mrs. Brunton in all her bravery at the shop in the market-place , over which Hepburn and Coulson 's names still flourished in joint partnership . 
But to give t ' devil his due , it were good i ' Hepburn to marry thee , and so soon after there was a ' that talk about thy feyther . 
The idea was irresistibly forced upon her that Philip would not have acted so : it would have taken long years before he could have been induced to put another on the throne she had once occupied . 
For the first time in her life she seemed to recognize the real nature of Philip 's love . 
Who 'd ha ' thought of yo ' r husband , him as was so slow and sure -- steady Philip , as we lasses used to ca ' him -- makin ' a moonlight flittin ' , and leavin ' yo ' to be a widow bewitched ! '' 
`` He did n't go at night , '' said Sylvia , taking the words `` moonlight flitting '' in their literal sense . 
She detained Hester in the room for fear lest Mrs. Brunton should repeat her inquiry as to how it all happened that Philip had gone away ; but the presence of a third person seemed as though it would be but little restraint upon the inquisitive Molly , who repeatedly bore down upon the same questions till she nearly drove Sylvia distracted , between her astonishment at the news of Kinraid 's marriage ; her wish to be alone and quiet , so as to realize the full meaning of that piece of intelligence ; her desire to retain Hester in the conversation ; her efforts to prevent Molly 's recurrence to the circumstances of Philip 's disappearance , and the longing -- more vehement every minute -- for her visitor to go away and leave her in peace . 
She thought that Alice Rose must be either mother or aunt to Philip , from the serious cast of countenance that was remarkable in both ; and she rather exulted in the allusion to a happier second marriage for Sylvia , with which she had concluded her speech . 
It roused Alice , however , as effectually as if she had been really a blood relation to Philip ; but for a different reason . 
`` She 's humbling herself now , I trust and pray , but she was light-minded and full of vanity when Philip married her , and it might ha ' been a lift towards her salvation in one way ; but it pleased the Lord to work in a different way , and she mun wear her sackcloth and ashes in patience . 
Pale , fire-eyed , and excited , with Philip 's child on one arm , and the other stretched out , she said , -- `` Noane can tell -- noane know . 
No one shall speak a judgment ` twixt Philip and me . 
He acted cruel and wrong by me . 
But I 've said my words to him hissel ' , and I 'm noane going to make any plaint to others ; only them as knows should judge . 
If yo ' treated steady Philip to many such looks an ' speeches as yo 'n given us now , it 's easy t ' see why he took hisself off . 
When she was fairly off , Alice Rose opened her mouth in strong condemnation ; winding up with -- `` And if aught in my words gave thee cause for offence , Sylvia , it was because my heart rose within me at the kind of talk thee and she had been having about Philip ; and her evil and light-minded counsel to thee about waiting seven years , and then wedding another . '' 
She was silent for a few moments , then she said , `` I ha ' often thought of telling yo ' and Hester , special-like when yo 've been so kind to my little Bella , that Philip an ' me could niver come together again , no , not if he came home this very night -- '' She would have gone on speaking , but Hester interrupted her with a low cry of dismay . 
Sylvia was thinking how strange life was , and how love seemed to go all at cross purposes ; and was losing herself in bewilderment at the mystery of the world ; she was almost startled when Hester rose up , and taking Sylvia 's hands in both of hers , and looking solemnly at her , said , `` Sylvia , yo ' know what has been my trouble and my shame , and I 'm sure yo 're sorry for me -- for I will humble myself to yo ' , and own that for many months before yo ' were married , I felt my disappointment like a heavy burden laid on me by day and by night ; but now I ask yo ' , if yo 've any pity for me for what I went through , or if yo 've any love for me because of yo ' r dead mother 's love for me , or because of any fellowship , or daily breadliness between us two , -- put the hard thoughts of Philip away from out yo ' r heart ; he may ha ' done yo ' wrong , anyway yo ' think that he has ; I niver knew him aught but kind and good ; but if he comes back from wheriver in th ' wide world he 's gone to -LRB- and there 's not a night but I pray God to keep him , and send him safe back -RRB- , yo ' put away the memory of past injury , and forgive it all , and be , what yo ' can be , Sylvia , if yo 've a mind to , just the kind , good wife he ought to have . '' 
said Sylvia , after a moment 's hesitation ; `` I 'd do a deal for yo ' , I would , but I dare n't forgive Philip , even if I could ; I took a great oath again him . 
After this agitation , and these partial confidences , no more was said on the subject of Philip for many weeks . 
They avoided even the slightest allusion to him ; and none of them knew how seldom or how often he might be present in the minds of the others . 
Sylvia was utterly bewildered ; Mrs. Kinraid , this pretty , joyous , prosperous little bird of a woman , Philip , Charley 's wife , what could they have in common ? 
`` It could n't have been Philip , '' said Sylvia , dubiously . 
He says , ` Just as I gave up all hope , I saw one Philip Hepburn , a man whom I had known at Monkshaven , and whom I had some reason to remember well ' -LRB- I 'm sure he says so -- ` remember well ' -RRB- , ` he saw me too , and came at the risk of his life to where I lay . 
I fully expected he would be shot down ; and I shut my eyes not to see the end of my last chance . 
The shot rained about him , and I think he was hit ; but he took me up and carried me under cover . ' 
I 'm sure he says that , I 've read it over so often ; and he goes on and says how he hunted for Mr. Hepburn all through the ships , as soon as ever he could ; but he could hear nothing of him , either alive or dead . 
`` You see , because he could n't find him alive is no reason for giving him up as dead ; because his name was n't to be found on any of the ships ' books ; so the captain thinks he must have been known by a different name to his real one . 
`` I do n't think it could have been Philip , '' reiterated Sylvia . 
asked her visitor ; `` you say you do n't know where he is ; why might n't he have been there where the captain says he was ? '' 
`` Philip Hepburn led away to be a soldier ! '' 
`` He 's been saving my husband 's life in the Holy Land , where Jerusalem is , you know . '' 
And I 'm very glad I 've seen you , '' said she , rising to go , and putting out her hand to shake that of Sylvia ; `` for , besides being Hepburn 's wife , I 'm pretty sure I 've heard the captain speak of you ; and if ever you come to Bristol I hope you 'll come and see us on Clifton Downs . '' 
Philip a soldier ! 
Philip in a battle , risking his life . 
Most strange of all , Charley and Philip once more meeting together , not as rivals or as foes , but as saviour and saved ! 
And she 'd fain have us believe that Philip is abiding in all manner of Scripture places ; places as has been long done away with , but the similitude whereof is in the heavens , where the elect shall one day see them . 
And she says Philip is there , and a soldier , and that he saved her husband 's life , and is coming home soon . 
So Hester had to be content with asking her mother as many elucidatory questions as she could ; and after all did not gain a very clear idea of what had really been said by Mrs. Kinraid , as her mother was more full of the apparent injustice of Philip 's being allowed the privilege of treading on holy ground -- if , indeed , that holy ground existed on this side heaven , which she was inclined to dispute -- than to confine herself to the repetition of words , or narration of facts . 
And he 's away fighting ; and got too near t ' French as was shooting and firing all round him ; and just then , according to her story , Philip saw him , and went straight into t ' midst o ' t ' shots , and fetched him out o ' danger . 
But they 'd little cause to be friends , and it seems all so strange -- Philip a soldier , and them meeting theere after all ! '' 
Hester laid the story of Philip 's bravery to her heart -- she fully believed in it . 
Many a morning she wakened up , her heart beating wildly , why , she knew not , till she shuddered at the remembrance of the scenes that had passed in her dreams : scenes that might be acted in reality that very day ; for Philip might come back , and then ? 
And where was Philip all this time , these many weeks , these heavily passing months ? 
Philip lay long ill on board the hospital ship . 
If his heart had been light , he might have rallied sooner ; but he was so depressed he did not care to live . 
His shattered jawbone , his burnt and blackened face , his many injuries of body , were torture to both his physical frame , and his sick , weary heart . 
No more chance for him , if indeed there ever had been any , of returning gay and gallant , and thus regaining his wife 's love . 
This had been his poor , foolish vision in the first hour of his enlistment ; and the vain dream had recurred more than once in the feverish stage of excitement which the new scenes into which he had been hurried as a recruit had called forth . 
He knew that it was the most unlikely thing in the world to have come to pass ; and yet those were happy days when he could think of it as barely possible . 
Now all he could look forward to was disfigurement , feebleness , and the bare pittance that keeps pensioners from absolute want . 
Those around him were kind enough to him in their fashion , and attended to his bodily requirements ; but they had no notion of listening to any revelations of unhappiness , if Philip had been the man to make confidences of that kind . 
As it was , he lay very still in his berth , seldom asking for anything , and always saying he was better , when the ship-surgeon came round with his daily inquiries . 
But he did not care to rally , and was rather sorry to find that his case was considered so interesting in a surgical point of view , that he was likely to receive a good deal more than the average amount of attention . 
Perhaps it was owing to this that he recovered at all . 
The doctors said it was the heat that made him languid , for that his wounds and burns were all doing well at last ; and by-and-by they told him they had ordered him `` home . '' 
His pulse sank under the surgeon 's finger at the mention of the word ; but he did not say a word . 
He was too indifferent to life and the world to have a will ; otherwise they might have kept their pet patient a little longer where he was . 
Slowly passing from ship to ship as occasion served ; resting here and there in garrison hospitals , Philip at length reached Portsmouth on the evening of a September day in 1799 . 
The transport-ship in which he was , was loaded with wounded and invalided soldiers and sailors ; all who could manage it in any way struggled on deck to catch the first view of the white coasts of England . 
Philip was one of these ; his place a little apart from the other men . 
He was muffled up in a great military cloak that had been given him by one of his officers ; he felt the September ber breeze chill after his sojourn in a warmer climate , and in his shattered state of health . 
Philip sat still , almost as if he had no part in the cries of welcome , the bustling care , the loud directions that cut the air around him , and pierced his nerves through and through . 
But one in authority gave the order ; and Philip , disciplined to obedience , rose to find his knapsack and leave the ship . 
Passive as he seemed to be , he had his likings for particular comrades ; there was one especially , a man as different from Philip as well could be , to whom the latter had always attached himself ; a merry fellow from Somersetshire , who was almost always cheerful and bright , though Philip had overheard the doctors say he would never be the man he was before he had that shot through the side . 
After one of these fits he had gasped out some words , which led Philip to question him a little ; and it turned out that in the quiet little village of Potterne , far inland , nestled beneath the high stretches of Salisbury Plain , he had a wife and a child , a little girl , just the same age even to a week as Philip 's own little Bella . 
It was this that drew Philip towards the man ; and this that made Philip wait and go ashore along with the poor consumptive marine . 
Philip and his companion were about midway , when suddenly a young woman with a child in her arms forced herself through the people , between the soldiers who kept pressing on either side , and threw herself on the neck of Philip 's friend . 
he coughed his churchyard cough ; and Philip bitterly envied him -- envied his life , envied his approaching death ; for was he not wrapped round with that woman 's tender love , and is not such love stronger than death ? 
Philip had felt as if his own heart was grown numb , and as though it had changed to a cold , heavy stone . 
Philip 's jaw , and the lower part of his face , were bandaged up ; his cap was slouched down ; he held his cloak about him , and shivered within its folds . 
He stayed his progress though , when he saw the convoy of maimed and wounded men ; he said something , of which Philip only caught the words , `` same uniform , '' `` for his sake , '' to the young lady , whose cheek blanched a little , but whose eyes kindled . 
Then leaving her for an instant , he pressed forward ; he was close to Philip , -- poor sad Philip absorbed in his own thoughts , -- so absorbed that he noticed nothing till he heard a voice at his ear , having the Northumbrian burr , the Newcastle inflections which he knew of old , and that were to him like the sick memory of a deadly illness ; and then he turned his muffled face to the speaker , though he knew well enough who it was , and averted his eyes after one sight of the handsome , happy man , -- the man whose life he had saved once , and would save again , at the risk of his own , but whom , for all that , he prayed that he might never meet more on earth . 
`` Here , my fine fellow , take this , '' forcing a crown piece into Philip 's hand . 
Philip muttered something , and held out the coin to Captain Kinraid , of course in vain ; nor was there time to urge it back upon the giver , for the obstacle to their progress was suddenly removed , the crowd pressed upon the captain and his wife , the procession moved on , and Philip along with it , holding the piece in his hand , and longing to throw it far away . 
Indeed he was on the point of dropping it , hoping to do so unperceived , when he bethought him of giving it to Jem 's wife , the footsore woman , limping happily along by her husband 's side . 
Philip knew that the injuries he had received in the explosion on board the Theseus , would oblige him to leave the service . 
He also believed that they would entitle him to a pension . 
But he had little interest in his future life ; he was without hope , and in a depressed state of health . 
He remained for some little time stationary , and then went through all the forms of dismissal on account of wounds received in service , and was turned out loose upon the world , uncertain where to go , indifferent as to what became of him . 
It was fine , warm October weather as he turned his back upon the coast , and set off on his walk northwards . 
Philip 's long drooping form , his arm hung in a sling , his face scarred and blackened , his jaw bound up with a black silk handkerchief ; these marks of active service were reverenced by the rustic cottagers as though they had been crowns and sceptres . 
The rustic politicians would gather round Philip , and smoke and drink , and then question and discuss till they were drouthy again ; and in their sturdy obtuse minds they set down the extra glass and the supernumerary pipe to the score of patriotism . 
Altogether , human nature turned its sunny side out to Philip just now ; and not before he needed the warmth of brotherly kindness to cheer his shivering soul . 
Day after day he drifted northwards , making but the slow progress of a feeble man , and yet this short daily walk tired him so much that he longed for rest -- for the morning to come when he needed not to feel that in the course of an hour or two he must be up and away . 
He was toiling on with this longing at his heart when he saw that he was drawing near a stately city , with a great old cathedral in the centre keeping solemn guard . 
Obeying these directions , Philip came upon a building which dated from the time of Henry the Fifth . 
Philip stood under a great broad stone archway ; the back-door into the warden 's house was on the right side ; a kind of buttery-hatch was placed by the porter 's door on the opposite side . 
After some consideration , Philip knocked at the closed shutter , and the signal seemed to be well understood . 
He heard a movement within ; the hatch was drawn aside , and his bread and beer were handed to him by a pleasant-looking old man , who proved himself not at all disinclined for conversation . 
Philip sat down where the warm October sun slanted upon him , and looked through the iron railing at the peaceful sight . 
A great square of velvet lawn , intersected diagonally with broad flag-paved walks , the same kind of walk going all round the quadrangle ; low two-storied brick houses , tinted grey and yellow by age , and in many places almost covered with vines , Virginian creepers , and monthly roses ; before each house a little plot of garden ground , bright with flowers , and evidently tended with the utmost care ; on the farther side the massive chapel ; here and there an old or infirm man sunning himself , or leisurely doing a bit of gardening , or talking to one of his comrades -- the place looked as if care and want , and even sorrow , were locked out and excluded by the ponderous gate through which Philip was gazing . 
said the porter , interpreting Philip 's looks pretty accurately . 
`` I think I could make myself very content here , '' replied Philip . 
He was going into the neighbouring city , but he stopped to speak to Philip , the wounded soldier ; and all the more readily because his old faded uniform told the warden 's experienced eye that he had belonged to the Marines . 
`` I hope you enjoy the victual provided for you by the founder of St. Sepulchre , '' said he , kindly . 
said Philip . 
`` It was my company , '' said Philip , warning up a little . 
Looking back upon his soldier 's life , it seemed to him to have many charms , because it was so full of small daily interests . 
So Philip was ushered into the warden 's house and made to eat roast beef almost against his will ; and he was questioned and cross-questioned by three eager ladies , all at the same time , as it seemed to him . 
He had given all possible details on the subjects about which they were curious ; and was beginning to consider how he could best make his retreat , when the younger Miss Pennington went up to her father -- who had all this time stood , with his hat on , holding his coat-tails over his arms , with his back to the fire . 
He bent his ear down a very little to hear some whispered suggestion of his daughter 's , nodded his head , and then went on questioning Philip , with kindly inquisitiveness and patronage , as the rich do question the poor . 
Philip did not answer directly . 
He wondered in his own mind where he was going . 
At length he said , `` Northwards , I believe . 
There was again a pause ; a cloud came over Philip 's countenance . 
He said , `` No ! 
They interpreted his looks and this speech to mean that he had either lost his friends by death , or offended them by enlisting . 
But we require strict testimonials as to character , '' he added , with as penetrating a look as he could summon up at Philip . 
Philip looked unmoved , either by the offer of the cottage , or the allusion to the possibility of his character not being satisfactory . 
He was grateful enough in reality , but too heavy at heart to care very much what became of him . 
The warden and his family , who were accustomed to consider a settlement at St. Sepulchre 's as the sum of all good to a worn-out soldier , were a little annoyed at Philip 's cool way of receiving the proposition . 
`` I know I seem stupid , '' said Philip , almost humbly , `` not to be more grateful , for it 's far beyond what I iver expected or thought for again , and it 's a great temptation , for I 'm just worn out with fatigue . 
But once I had a wife and a child up in the north , '' he stopped . 
Her eyes met Philip 's , full of dumb woe . 
He tried to speak ; he wanted to explain more fully , yet not to reveal the truth . 
And thus Philip , almost in spite of himself , became installed in a bedesman 's house at St. Sepulchre . 
Philip took possession of the two rooms which had belonged to the dead Sergeant Dobson . 
At first the repose of the life and the place was inexpressibly grateful to Philip . 
He had always shrunk from encountering strangers , and displaying his blackened and scarred countenance to them , even where such disfigurement was most regarded as a mark of honour . 
In St. Sepulchre 's he met none but the same set day after day , and when he had once told the tale of how it happened and submitted to their gaze , it was over for ever , if he so minded . 
The slight employment his garden gave him -- there was a kitchen-garden behind each house , as well as the flower-plot in front -- and the daily arrangement of his parlour and chamber were , at the beginning of his time of occupation , as much bodily labour as he could manage . 
There was something stately and utterly removed from all Philip 's previous existence in the forms observed at every day 's dinner , when the twelve bedesmen met in the large quaint hall and the warden came in in his college-cap and gown to say the long Latin grace which wound up with something very like a prayer for the soul of Sir Simon Bray . 
And before Dr. Pennington had received the excellent character of Stephen Freeman , which his son gladly sent in answer to his father 's inquiries , Philip had become restless and uneasy in the midst of all this peace and comfort . 
Sitting alone over his fire in the long winter evenings , the scenes of his past life rose before him ; his childhood ; his aunt Robson 's care of him ; his first going to Foster 's shop in Monkshaven ; Haytersbank Farm , and the spelling lessons in the bright warm kitchen there ; Kinraid 's appearance ; the miserable night of the Corneys ' party ; the farewell he had witnessed on Monkshaven sands ; the press-gang , and all the long consequences of that act of concealment ; poor Daniel Robson 's trial and execution ; his own marriage ; his child 's birth ; and then he came to that last day at Monkshaven : and he went over and over again the torturing details , the looks of contempt and anger , the words of loathing indignation , till he almost brought himself , out of his extreme sympathy with Sylvia , to believe that he was indeed the wretch she had considered him to be . 
Philip took up this last , which he had never seen before . 
In it he read how Sir Guy , Earl of Warwick , went to fight the Paynim in his own country , and was away for seven long years ; and when he came back his own wife phillis , the countess in her castle , did not know the poor travel-worn hermit , who came daily to seek his dole of bread at her hands along with many beggars and much poor . 
The old story known to most people from their childhood was all new and fresh to Philip . 
He did not quite believe in the truth of it , because the fictitious nature of the histories of some of the other Champions of Christendom was too patent . 
But he could not help thinking that this one might be true ; and that Guy and Philis might have been as real flesh and blood long , long ago , as he and Sylvia had even been . 
The old room , the quiet moonlit quadrangle into which the cross-barred casement looked , the quaint aspect of everything that he had seen for weeks and weeks ; all this predisposed Philip to dwell upon the story he had just been reading as a faithful legend of two lovers whose bones were long since dust . 
He thought that if he could thus see Sylvia , himself unknown , unseen -- could live at her gates , so to speak , and gaze upon her and his child -- some day too , when he lay a-dying , he might send for her , and in soft words of mutual forgiveness breathe his life away in her arms . 
Or perhaps -- and so he lost himself , and from thinking passed on to dreaming . 
In the small oblong of looking-glass hung against the wall , Philip caught the reflection of his own face , and laughed scornfully at the sight . 
The thin hair lay upon his temples in the flakes that betoken long ill health ; his eyes were the same as ever , and they had always been considered the best feature in his face ; but they were sunk in their orbits , and looked hollow and gloomy . 
As for the lower part of his face , blackened , contracted , drawn away from his teeth , the outline entirely changed by the breakage of his jaw-bone , he was indeed a fool if he thought himself fit to go forth to win back that love which Sylvia had forsworn . 
The warden turned away ; and Philip , uneasy at staying , disheartened at leaving , went to make his few preparations for setting out once more on his journey northwards . 
He had to give notice of his change of residence to the local distributor of pensions ; and one or two farewells had to be taken , with more than usual sadness at the necessity ; for Philip , under his name of Stephen Freeman , had attached some of the older bedesmen a good deal to him , from his unselfishness , his willingness to read to them , and to render them many little services , and , perhaps , as much as anything , by his habitual silence , which made him a convenient recipient of all their garrulousness . 
So before the time for his departure came , he had the opportunity of one more interview with the warden , of a more friendly character than that in which he gave up his bedesmanship . 
And so far it was well ; and Philip turned his back upon St. Sepulchre 's with his sore heart partly healed by his four months ' residence there . 
He was stronger , too , in body , more capable of the day-after-day walks that were required of him . 
He had saved some money from his allowance as bedesman and from his pension , and might occasionally have taken an outside place on a coach , had it not been that he shrank from the first look of every stranger upon his disfigured face . 
Yet the gentle , wistful eyes , and the white and faultless teeth always did away with the first impression as soon as people became a little acquainted with his appearance . 
It was February when Philip left St. Sepulchre 's . 
It was the first week in April when he began to recognize the familiar objects between York and Monkshaven . 
And now he began to hang back , and to question the wisdom of what he had done -- just as the warden had prophesied that he would . 
The yellower gleams grew narrower ; the evening shadows broader , and Philip crept down the lane a weary , woeful man . 
All this Philip might have seen ; did see in fact ; but heeded not one jot . 
Almost opposite to him , not ten yards apart , standing on the raised step at the well-known shop door , was Sylvia , holding a child , a merry dancing child , up in her arms to see the show . 
She held the little Bella aloft that the child might see the gaudy procession the better and the longer , looking at it herself with red lips apart and white teeth glancing through ; then she turned to speak to some one behind her -- Coulson , as Philip saw the moment afterwards ; his answer made her laugh once again . 
Philip saw it all ; her bonny careless looks , her pretty matronly form , her evident ease of mind and prosperous outward circumstances . 
The years that he had spent in gloomy sorrow , amongst wild scenes , on land or by sea , his life in frequent peril of a bloody end , had gone by with her like sunny days ; all the more sunny because he was not there . 
So bitterly thought the poor disabled marine , as , weary and despairing , he stood in the cold shadow and looked upon the home that should have been his haven , the wife that should have welcomed him , the child that should have been his comfort . 
He had banished himself from his home ; his wife had forsworn him ; his child was blossoming into intelligence unwitting of any father . 
Wife , and child , and home , were all doing well without him ; what madness had tempted him thither ? 
A Few days before that on which Philip arrived at Monkshaven , Kester had come to pay Sylvia a visit . 
I were nought to her but Philip 's wife . '' 
`` An ' what t ' dickins had she to do wi ' Philip ? '' 
`` She said -- and I think her tale were true , though I can not get to t ' rights on it , think on it as I will -- as Philip saved her husband 's life somewheere near-abouts to Jerusalem . 
She would have it that t ' captain -- for I think I 'll niver ca ' him Kinraid again -- was in a great battle , and were near upon being shot by t ' French , when Philip -- our Philip -- come up and went right into t ' fire o ' t ' guns , and saved her husband 's life . 
And she spoke as if both she and t ' captain were more beholden to Philip than words could tell . 
And she come to see me , to try and get news on him . '' 
`` A should ha ' thought as Philip were more likely to ha ' gi'en him a shove into t ' thick on it , than t ' help him out o ' t ' scrape . '' 
Philip had a deal o ' good in him . 
And I dunnot think as he 'd ha ' gone and married another woman so soon , if he 'd been i ' Kinraid 's place . '' 
`` An ' yo 've niver heared on Philip sin ' he left ? '' 
It were unlike Philip to think o ' such a thing . '' 
`` But thou mun ha ' been thinkin ' on him at times i ' a ' these years . 
Bad as he 'd behaved hissel ' , he were t ' feyther o ' thy little un . 
What did ta think he had been agait on when he left here ? '' 
I were noane so keen a-thinking on him at first . 
I tried to put him out o ' my thoughts a ` together , for it made me like mad to think how he 'd stood between me and -- that other . 
But I 'd begun to wonder and to wonder about him , and to think I should like to hear as he were doing well . 
I reckon I thought he were i ' London , wheere he 'd been that time afore , yo ' know , and had allays spoke as if he 'd enjoyed hissel ' tolerable ; and then Molly Brunton told me on t ' other one 's marriage ; and , somehow , it gave me a shake in my heart , and I began for to wish I had n't said all them words i ' my passion ; and then that fine young lady come wi ' her story -- and I 've thought a deal on it since , -- and my mind has come out clear . 
Philip 's dead , and it were his spirit as come to t ' other 's help in his time o ' need . 
I reckon , lass , Philip 's life were pretty well on for bein ' spoilt at after he left here ; and it were , mebbe , a good thing he got rid on it so soon . '' 
`` I wish I 'd just had a few kind words wi ' him , I do , '' said Sylvia , almost on the point of crying . 
Living in a town where it was necessary to put on hat and cloak before going out into the street , and then to walk in a steady and decorous fashion , she had only cared to escape down to the freedom of the sea-shore until Philip went away ; and after that time she had learnt so to fear observation as a deserted wife , that nothing but Bella 's health would have been a sufficient motive to take her out of doors . 
Philip , in spite of himself , recovered and grew stronger ; and as he grew stronger hunger took the place of loathing dislike to food . 
But his money was all spent ; and what was his poor pension of sixpence a day in that terrible year of famine ? 
Many a summer 's night he walked for hours and hours round the house which once was his , which might be his now , with all its homely , blessed comforts , could he but go and assert his right to it . 
But to go with authority , and in his poor , maimed guise assert that right , he had need be other than Philip Hepburn . 
So he stood in the old shelter of the steep , crooked lane opening on to the hill out of the market-place , and watched the soft fading of the summer 's eve into night ; the closing of the once familiar shop ; the exit of good , comfortable William Coulson , going to his own home , his own wife , his comfortable , plentiful supper . 
Then Philip -- there were no police in those days , and scarcely an old watchman in that primitive little town -- would go round on the shady sides of streets , and , quickly glancing about him , cross the bridge , looking on the quiet , rippling stream , the grey shimmer foretelling the coming dawn over the sea , the black masts and rigging of the still vessels against the sky ; he could see with his wistful , eager eyes the shape of the windows -- the window of the very room in which his wife and child slept , unheeding of him , the hungry , brokenhearted outcast . 
He would go back to his lodging , and softly lift the latch of the door ; still more softly , but never without an unspoken , grateful prayer , pass by the poor sleeping woman who had given him a shelter and her share of God 's blessing -- she , who , like him , knew not the feeling of satisfied hunger ; and then he laid him down on the narrow pallet in the lean-to , and again gave Sylvia happy lessons in the kitchen at Haytersbank , and the dead were alive ; and Charley Kinraid , the specksioneer , had never come to trouble the hopeful , gentle peace . 
The child 's heart was touched by the idea of hunger , and her little arm was outstretched ready for the moment her mother 's hurried steps took her brushing past the startled , trembling Philip . 
They were the first words he had ever heard his child utter . 
The echoes of them rang in his ears as he stood endeavouring to hide his disfigured face by looking over the parapet of the bridge down upon the stream running away towards the ocean , into which his hot tears slowly fell , unheeded by the weeper . 
Then he changed the intention with which he had set out upon his nightly walk , and turned back to his lodging . 
That Z. H. that she knew of old stood for Zachary Hepburn , Philip 's father . 
She knew how Philip valued this watch . 
She remembered having seen it in his hands the very day before his disappearance , when he was looking at the time in his annoyance at Sylvia 's detention in her walk with baby . 
Where , then , was Philip ? 
-- by what chance of life or death had this , his valued property , found its way once more to Monkshaven ? 
So Hester went away , her heart beating with the promise of knowing something about Philip , -- how much , how little , in these first moments , she dared not say even to herself . 
Some sailor newly landed from distant seas might have become possessed of Philip 's watch in far-off latitudes ; in which case Philip would be dead . 
Again , it might be that Philip himself was near at hand -- was here in this very place -- starving , as too many were , for insufficiency of means to buy the high-priced food . 
And then her heart burnt within her as she thought of the succulent , comfortable meals which Sylvia provided every day -- nay , three times a day -- for the household in the market-place , at the head of which Philip ought to have been ; but his place knew him not . 
how should she speak , how should she act , if Philip were near -- if Philip were sad and in miserable estate ? 
Her plan was to obtain all the knowledge about Philip that she could in the first instance ; and then , if circumstances allowed it , as in all probability they would , to let drop by drop of healing , peacemaking words and thoughts fall on Sylvia 's obdurate , unforgiving heart . 
Many a time since Philip went away had she unconsciously missed his protecting love ; when folks spoke shortly to her , when Alice scolded her as one of the non-elect , when Hester 's gentle gravity had something of severity in it ; when her own heart failed her as to whether her mother would have judged that she had done well , could that mother have known all , as possibly she did by this time . 
Philip had never spoken otherwise than tenderly to her during the eighteen months of their married life , except on the two occasions before recorded : once when she referred to her dream of Kinraid 's possible return , and once again on the evening of the day before her discovery of his concealment of the secret of Kinraid 's involuntary disappearance . 
After she had learnt that Kinraid was married , her heart had still more strongly turned to Philip ; she thought that he had judged rightly in what he had given as the excuse for his double dealing ; she was even more indignant at Kinraid 's fickleness than she had any reason to be ; and she began to learn the value of such enduring love as Philip 's had been -- lasting ever since the days when she first began to fancy what a man 's love for a woman should be , when she had first shrunk from the tone of tenderness he put into his especial term for her , a girl of twelve -- `` Little lassie , '' as he was wont to call her . 
what would be her duty , if he came again , and once more called her wife ? 
O Philip ! 
Philip ! 
`` He ! 
-- Philip ! 
`` I know it 's Philip , '' she whispered , `` and yo ' said he wanted me ; so I know he 's safe ; and , Kester , I think I 'm ` feared on him , and I 'd like to gather courage afore seeing him , and a look at Bella would give me courage . 
Several sailors stood about the door , awaiting , in silent anxiety , for the verdict of the doctor , who was even now examining Philip 's injuries . 
Instead she heard low whispers pronouncing Philip 's earthly doom . 
For the doctors were both agreed ; his internal injury was of a mortal kind , although , as the spine was severely injured above the seat of the fatal bruise , he had no pain in the lower half of his body . 
Widow Dobson had her back to the bed -- her bed -- on to which Philip had been borne in the hurry of terror as to whether he was alive or whether he was dead . 
But noiseless as her step might be , he heard , he recognized , and with a sigh he turned his poor disfigured face to the wall , hiding it in the shadow . 
He knew that she was by him ; that she had knelt down by his bed ; that she was kissing his hand , over which the languor of approaching death was stealing . 
At length he said , his face still averted , speaking with an effort , `` Little lassie , forgive me now ! 
There was no answer , only a long miserable sigh , and he felt her soft cheek laid upon his hand , and the quiver that ran through her whole body . 
`` I did thee a cruel wrong , '' he said , at length . 
He listened intently for a moment . 
He heard through the open window the waves lapping on the shelving shore . 
`` Child , '' said he , once more . 
`` Oh , Philip ! 
Philip ! '' 
I 'm sorely punished , Philip , I am indeed . '' 
He pressed her hand , he stroked her cheek . 
But he asked for yet another word . 
`` Thou thought as he was faithless and fickle , '' she answered quickly ; `` and so he were . 
He were married to another woman not so many weeks at after thou went away . 
Oh , Philip , Philip ! 
and now I have thee back , and -- '' `` Dying '' was the word she would have said , but first the dread of telling him what she believed he did not know , and next her passionate sobs , choked her . 
`` I know , '' said he , once more stroking her cheek , and soothing her with gentle , caressing hand . 
he said , after a while when she was quiet from very exhaustion , `` I niver thought to be so happy again . 
said Philip , turning round his face , forgetful of himself in his desire to comfort her . 
Then he was silent -- very still . 
Philip ? '' 
`` And his wife -- Sylvia ? '' 
`` In there with him , alone , '' whispered Kester . 
Philip watched it come , knowing that it was his last sight of day , -- as we reckon days on earth . 
He had been often near death as a soldier ; once or twice , as when he rushed into fire to save Kinraid , his chances of life had been as one to a hundred ; but yet he had had a chance . 
He felt its numbness stealing up him -- stealing up him . 
It seemed but yesterday since he was a little boy at his mother 's knee , wishing with all the earnestness of his childish heart to be like Abraham , who was called the friend of God , or David , who was said to be the man after God 's own heart , or St. John , who was called `` the Beloved . '' 
forgive me -- me -- Philip ! '' 
Oh , Philip ! 
my Philip , tender and true . '' 
`` This is the piece he left at William Darley 's to be bored , '' said she , `` not many days ago . '' 
Yet , standing near the site of widow Dobson 's house on a summer 's night , at the ebb of a springtide , you may hear the waves come lapping up the shelving shore with the same ceaseless , ever-recurrent sound as that which Philip listened to in the pauses between life and death . 
Not long since a lady went to the `` Public Baths , '' a handsome stone building erected on the very site of widow Dobson 's cottage , and finding all the rooms engaged she sat down and had some talk with the bathing woman ; and , as it chanced , the conversation fell on Philip Hepburn and the legend of his fate . 
He would say nothing again th ' husband ; he used to say as it were not fit for men to be judging ; that she had had her sore trial , as well as Hepburn hisself . '' 
