`` Saturdaynight and Lucy not yet returned , '' exclaimed the minister of H -- , in a severe and impatient tone , as he lingered at the open door of his dwelling . 
Have you not noticed how , from the time the young stranger from the north first came among us , our Lucy 's heart hath been going after other things than her parents on earth , and her Father in heaven ? 
It hath pressed upon me long , that there is one whom she loves better than these . 
`` Lucy has never breathed to me aught of the young Canadian , and even when every one else is inquiring into the cause of his mysterious appearance and his protracted visit , I have noticed that she has been silent . 
But if she has given you her confidence , surely you ought not to have withheld it from her mother . '' 
`` Lucy has told me nothing , '' replied the clergyman , `` but I have watched her closely ; and when day after day , as she sits with us , and her eye is on her needle , I have read her countenance , I have seen that her soul was full of visions -- not the calm visions of the better land , but warm , unhallowed dreams of earth . 
I have seen her eye kindle , and her lip tremble with smiles and even unconscious whispers ; and if I did but ask her of her thoughts , such a deep and sudden blush would come over her face , as a pious and free hearted maiden need never wear . 
`` Mr. Everett , '' exclaimed the mother with unwonted animation , `` you do indeed wrong our beloved Lucy . 
I know that my Lucy 's heart is a shrine of pure and elevated affections '' -- `` Then so much the more carefully should we guard them , Sarah ; she has a wild and romantic fancy , that may lead these affections astray . 
`` Is this well , Lucy Everett ? 
Lucy approached the table , the flush deepened on her countenance , and she raised her hand before her large , dark eyes , apparently for the purpose of shading them from the sudden light . 
`` You know , mother , I have been with Jane this afternoon , '' she said in a tone of affected carelessness , `` and I was not aware that it was so late . '' 
She still stood by the table . 
`` But , Lucy , you are surely not going out again , '' continued Mrs. Everett . 
`` Lucy , my dear , you may close the book , '' said Mr. Everett , after a few moments silence . 
`` Lucy , with whom have you spent your whole time since you left our dwelling ? '' 
`` Lucy , '' he continued , raising his voice and speaking with much earnestness , `` they who walk with you at this late hour , must be no strangers to me . 
`` Ah , Lucy , but you came not alone . 
An expression of unwonted pride curled the lip of Lucy Everett . 
Mr. Everett gazed on her countenance with unfeigned astonishment . 
He could not for a moment doubt her sincerity , and though every word of her explanation had only deepened the mystery , there was that in her countenance which at once convinced him that further inquiries were useless . 
It was May , the air was exceedingly soft and fragrant , and Lucy Everett had thrown open the window of the little parlor , and stood leaning over the sash , gathering a bunch of roses from the bush beneath . 
She had just spread the damask treasure on the window seat , and was endeavoring to arrange them in a graceful bouquet , when the sound of the `` first bell '' came swelling in clear and solemn notes , from the valley below . 
Lucy perceived at once that there was something unusual in the manner of her mother . 
Lucy was sitting in the window , and Mrs. Everett , after taking from a locker near the door a small and closely wrapped case of ivory , approached and seated herself beside her . 
Covering after covering was removed , she slowly unclasped the case , and at length Lucy perceived that her mother was gazing with looks of intense emotion , upon a small miniature picture . 
It was set in gold and brilliants , and she felt her curiosity strongly excited concerning the object which had power to awaken such agitating interest , in so placid a spirit . 
It was not to mourn for the long perished flower of Glenville that I made this effort but for the living -- God be praised , my own Lucy Everett is yet among the living . 
Child , child , you are standing strong in the might of your own frail spirit , but look you here , if one like this should fall , why should Lucy Everett , standing on the same brink , be fearless of evil ? '' 
It was the picture of a young maiden , apparently not more than sixteen ; and such a look of sweetness and innocence , Lucy felt she had never before beheld . 
The beautiful lips were parted with smiles ; and she met and returned the speaking glance of that soft blue eye , till a living spirit seemed before her , one that had known no sorrow and no sin , yet meek , and mild , and rich in all the depths of human tenderness . 
`` And so young and beautiful , '' exclaimed Lucy , as with feelings of intense admiration she still continued to gaze upon it . 
Lucy McGregor had been taught all those pure and sacred precepts , which we have sought to instil into your mind -- she was gentle and docile , and seemed to return in full measure the love that was so freely lavished upon her ; but , Lucy , hear me -- she whom we had deemed so affectionate and pious , at last died an alien from the church , and from those who had loved her as their own souls . '' 
`` Even from the period when she first came among us , with the blue eye and golden hair of her clime , Lucy was ever one that the world called beautiful . 
God had endowed her too with a mind of noble powers , and with a rich and rare gift of winning to herself the hearts of her fellow creatures . 
Ere Lucy had attained her nineteenth year , the noble family of C -- first took up their residence in our vicinity . 
And from this period did we date the beginning of that misery which afterwards overwhelmed our hearts ; for , daughter , mark me -- from this period did our Lucy first delight in the company of the unholy , the vain and proud ones of the world , more than in the lowly and despised whom God hath chosen out of the world ; from this period did she begin to contemn the restraints of her pious home , the hedge with which God in mercy had guarded the way of her youth . 
I can not tell you now how step by step this change was wrought ; indeed it had proceeded far , ere those who of all others should have shared her confidence , were at all aware of its existence . 
The family of the castle had seen and admired her for her beauty , and they were not long in learning , that notwithstanding her present lowly lot , Lucy McGregor was the daughter of an ancient Scottish clan , and that the name of many a renowned chieftain graced her lineage . 
`` Among the persons of distinction who visited the castle , there came one -- a youth from a foreign land , whom Lucy regarded with deep interest ; mayhap such as Lucy Everett cherishes for this unknown Catholic . 
The stranger at length sought her hand of her uncle and guardian , and was refused ; for , Lucy , how think you could a minister of the true faith , thus give up the child of his affections and prayers , to a stranger and a Papist , high-born though he was , and gifted in all worldly graces ? 
`` At length it was rumored through our dwellings , that the castle was soon to be deserted of its gay occupants , and we all rejoiced -- all save Lucy . 
Upon the plea of illness , Lucy had for some days past excused herself from the company of her friends , and the excessive paleness of her face , as I drew the veil from it , convinced me that her indisposition was not feigned . 
But this only rendered the circumstance of her present appearance yet more suspicious . 
I intreated her to return with me . 
Lucy herself was apparently the subject of some stronger excitement than the tale of Lucy McGregor alone could have aroused ; she had several times essayed to speak , but the words died on her lips . 
`` This is a lonely path at evening , '' she at length remarked , as if seeking to draw the conversation to the subject of her late mysterious conduct , but the observation failed of its effect . 
`` Mother , '' said Lucy , with a sudden effort , `` I fear I have appeared to you an undutiful child . 
I do not mean to say that I am more innocent than was Lucy McGregor , '' she hesitated and blushed deeply , `` but I have no temptation placed before me , I mean none like those which led her astray . '' 
`` Do you speak only to tantalize my curiosity , Lucy , or am I to look for some explanation of your words ? '' 
`` Not if you have promised , Lucy , but methinks you were exceedingly imprudent to make such engagements . 
`` You know then , mother , '' continued Lucy , with a slight embarrassment in her manner , `` Jane 's home is situated so far out of the village , that the path through the woods is almost as direct as this . 
said her mother . 
`` Could you read them , Lucy ? '' 
We must go home , Lucy , '' she coutinued , `` it is no time to be walking now , '' and she drew her daughter 's arm in her 's , as they moved hastily towards the gate of the cottage . 
It was quite dark when they had reached the porch , and it was not until Mrs. Everett had closely locked and barred the outer door , that Lucy found opportunity to renew her narrative . 
`` I was just hesitating what to do , '' she continued , in reply to her mother 's inquiries , `` when the sound of distant voices met my ear . 
`` It was only a few rods behind me , '' continued Lucy , `` and I was soon concealed within it . 
`` And who were they , Lucy , and what did they say ? '' 
`` Who they were , mother , I do not know , '' replied Lucy , `` but as to their words , I remember them as distinctly as though I had but this moment heard them . '' 
At all events , '' he continued in a lower tone , `` Vandreuil assures me that a little of this same gallant 's blood will contribute materially to the betterment of our cause , that is , if secretly drawn ; and Hertel de Rouville is not the man who hesitates at his bidding . 
But if you have any scruples , Beaumont , '' he added , with a tone of half suppressed laughter , `` we will call on the old Penobscot priests for absolution . '' 
`` Doubtless I have , '' he replied with some agitation , `` for I have found that deadly enemies are easily and quickly made . 
Fair lady , '' he said , approaching me , `` I see you have come on an errand of mercy . 
He paused , and without waiting for further inquires , I hastened to relate to him every particular of the scene I had just witnessed . 
And , Lucy , who can this stranger be , who seems a person of so much importance to the Canadian Governor , and why should he fear so benevolent a man as your father ? 
Theensuing day was spent by Lucy Everett in efforts to obtain further intelligence of the Canadian officer and his associates . 
For this purpose , she had extended her walk to the village , calling upon those persons of her acquaintance whose situation or character rendered them most familiar with the floating news of the day . 
She could not believe that the conspirators would abandon their object , without first instituting a search among the inhabitants , and thus afford her an opportunity of ascertaining something concerning their future plans . 
It was about noon , and Lucy was returning perplexed and disappointed , when her eye was arrested by the appearance of a genteel looking stranger , sitting in the half opened door of a small dwelling , which she was that moment passing . 
The circumstance was enough to awaken her curiosity , and she determined not to pass until she had learned whether the appearance of Mrs. Marsden 's guest , did not in some way affect the object of her solicitude . 
Lucy needed no further invitation . 
Upon her entrance the stranger had risen and seated himself in a remote corner of the apartment and seemed studiously to avoid notice . 
At length she paused a moment , and Lucy was proceeding as concisely as possible to satisfy her curiosity . 
said Lucy in a low voice , while the color mounted high in her cheek , and she directed a sidelong glance to the gentlemen in the corner . 
He was leaning his chair against the wall , his arms folded and his eye fixed intensely on the floor ; but notwithstanding the smile which played on his features , Lucy discovered at once such an expression of covert ferocity , that she turned away shuddering , and prepared to doubt the authenticity of any thing she might have heard in his favor . 
`` He left no word then , where he was going , '' said Lucy with a painful effort . 
Lucy Everett could scarcely conceal the sudden shock that at that moment agitated her frame -- the voice was that of Hertel de Rouville . 
Lucy saw that he directed his steps to the forest . 
That the search in this vicinity was now over she could no longer doubt , and ere she left the house of Mrs. Marsden the officer and his companion , mounted on horseback , were seen swiftly pursuing their way to the south . 
It was four in the afternoon , when Lucy Everett , overcome with agitating emotions , prepared for her excursion to the hiding place of the stranger . 
She had rested herself awhile in her mother 's parlor , and related to her the particulars of her interview with De Rouville ; and she had not departed without giving her promise that she would ascertain if possible the import of the mysterious conversation in the forest . 
Many embarrassing thoughts passed through her mind , as she slowly parted away the thick brushwood from the winding path that led to the summit of the hill . 
The beautiful stillness of the lone wood , interrupted only by the voice of singing birds , and the cool murmur of a distant waterfall , came over her feelings with a soothing influence until her reflections had gradually assumed a softer character . 
That the youth whose life had recently been redeemed from destruction by her own exertions , could ever have acted in that plan of deliberate treachery which the words of De Rouville had revealed , was an idea too painful to be indulged . 
Neither were her emotions unmingled with fearful apprehensions . 
Were then the horrid atrocities to which the `` Treaty of Ryswick '' had at length put a period , again to be renewed ; and if so , was not her silence with regard to it culpable ? 
Surely the welfare of a single stranger was not dearer to her than that of her father and country . 
Her cheek was yet warm with the embarrassment which this inquiry excited , when she found herself suddenly in his presence . 
Again the eye of the stranger sunk , with that look of melancholy , which the appearance of Lucy had for a few moments interrupted . 
Lucy felt that this was no light compliment ; for the words were uttered in the deep tones of feeling , and the stranger 's brow was flushed as he spoke . 
`` Sweet Lucy Everett , do not remember me as a spy and a traitor ; think of me as one whose early education has taught me to love the puritans , but whom the ties of kindred and the love of life itself are urging to join against them in schemes of treachery and cruelty . 
`` But your words are parables to me , '' said Lucy , `` you speak of bloodshed and plans of attack ; are we not at peace with our enemies ? '' 
The cheek of the young maiden had gradually grown pale during this recital ; and at its conclusion , she had no power to speak . 
The line of attack comprehended her own beloved village . 
Horrid pictures of blood and conflagration floated through her mind ; and the awful certainty of the impending evil , left no avenue for hope . 
`` Heaven be praised , '' she at length exclaimed , as if her mind had at length fastened on some slight alleviation . 
`` Talk not of the priests , '' said Lucy , her eye kindling with sudden indignation . 
The Baron Castine hath surely learned wickedness from no mortal teacher , and if the spirit of darkness doth indeed come to our world in human form '' -- she paused -- `` It is plain , I see it , sir , Castine hath again lighted up their wrath , and there is no more peace for us . '' 
Her voice was choked with agony and the cold perspiration stood on her brow . 
`` It is time that we part , sir , '' she added , after a few moment 's silence , `` you must fly from danger , and I must go home and prepare to meet it . '' 
`` My father is a pastor , replied Lucy looking sorrowfully up , `` hewill not forsake his flock and I can not forsake him . 
inquired Lucy . 
continued Lucy with breathless interest , while the warnings of the stranger flashed painfully over her mind . 
Jane Grant manifested only unmingled surprise and apprehension ; but when Mrs. Everett had uttered her first exclamation of distress , she cast on Lucy a glance which seemed to say , `` the mysterious conversation is explained . 
`` Father , '' said Lucy `` are you sure that the savages will remain true to us ? 
`` My father '' said Lucy `` I have received sure intelligence , that the treacherous Castine and his priests have indeed won over the Indians , notwithstanding their treaty , and they are at this moment prepared to assist in laying waste our villages . 
Every eye was fixed upon Lucy in amazement . 
`` And how know you this , Lucy ? '' 
Hasten my child , '' he continued addressing Jane , `` give the message to your father , and pray him not to sleep until he sees that help is prepared for us , and Lucy , my daughter , '' he continued as Jane departed swiftly on her errand , `` you must run with all speed to the village and give the alarm . 
Lucy waited not for a second bidding , and the alarm was quickly spread . 
In a few minutes from the time of her departure , the sound of the bell rose from the village ; and Mrs. Everett who was gazing from the window , perceived by the dim twilight the appearance of hastily gathering crowds . 
Lucy had left the church just at the time when nothing had been resolved upon ; and an hour of more agitating suspense she had never passed than that which intervened between her own return and her father 's . 
During this period she related to her mother the particulars of the stranger 's conversation ; and she was still standing at the window , watching with eagerness the hastily moving lights in the village , when the sound of near voices met her ear . 
A group of figures , faintly discerned in the darkness , were seen approaching the cottage ; and a moment after , Lucy met her father at the gate . 
Lucy and her mother , followed by Amy , were slowly descending the hill , and Mr. Everett , after turning the key upon his solitary dwelling hastened to accompany them . 
`` Mother , I will return for you , '' exclaimed Lucy , `` and Amy will go with me ; where shall we find the picture ? '' 
`` It is a dangerous time to walk alone , Lucy . '' 
Amy and myself are young and active , and we will join you by the time you reach the guard , '' -- and after obtaining her mother 's directions , without further delay they turned to retrace their steps to the cottage . 
Lucy lifted the latch of the little gate . 
The heroism of poor Amy was so entirely overcome by the air of gloom which pervaded the whole scene , that when Lucy had at length succeeded in opening the door , she refused to enter ; and sat down trembling upon the bench of the little honey-suckled porch . 
With a painful effort , Lucy hastened through the dark and lonely apartments . 
The faint light of the moon was just struggling through the windows , and tears involuntarily rushed to her eyes , as it revealed to her the dismantled appearance of the little parlor . 
Familiar as she was with the objects of this apartment , it was impossible for her to discover the key of the locker , without first obtaining a light . 
Her hand had already fastened upon a little lamp , that stood on the mantel-piece , and she now made her way into the kitchen . 
A few embers still remained on the hearth , and by means of these , she soon succeeded in relighting the lamp , and in a few moments more found herself in possession of the object of her search . 
Even in case of an attack , Lucy trusted that the lonely and deserted air ofthe house , together with the appearance of the apartments stripped of their furniture , by inducing them to believe it uninhabited , might still secure its safety . 
`` Hush -- hush '' -- whispered Lucy , `` as you love life be quiet . '' 
Meanwhile the heavy , monotonous sound which had excited their dread , drew each moment nearer ; and Lucy motioning Amy again to be quiet , ventured carefully to enter the opened door of the parlor . 
She dared not approach the window , but she could distinctly perceive that a small party of soldiers had that moment reached the summit of the acclivity , and were now within a stone 's throw of the house . 
Though his orders were given in Freneh , Lucy understood them sufficiently to comprehend that they were to remain in their present situation , while a few of them moved forward for a careful reconnoitre of the house and grounds . 
They were soon hastily scrambling over the pickets , and Lucy retired again to the kitchen . 
`` At any rate we can soon settle the matter , '' said the first voice , in a tone which made Lucy shudder , though she could not understand the meaning of his threat . 
There was another silence of considerable duration , and then light streamed up from under the windows with so sudden a blaze , that an involuntary scream of horror burst from her lips . 
`` They have fired the house , Amy , '' she exclaimed in the anguish of despair , and was hastening to unfasten the door . 
They had already crossed the garden and Lucy leaned a moment over the gate to undo the fastening , when the loud and fearful war-whoop arrested her purpose . 
The clouds rolled away from the moon , and she saw that they were surrounded with a fierce circle of waving tomahawks . 
All that they could do for life was done , and Lucy leaned against the pickets , to watch the coming up of her foe . 
At that moment a fainting , like death , came over her , the forms of the savage warriors faded from her eye , and insensibility succeeded to the long excitement of agonized feeling . 
Whenconsciousness again dawned upon the soul of Lucy Everett , the objects around her were entirely changed . 
It was still night , the moon was in its meridian , and she was reclining on the ground , in the midst of an evergreen forest . 
At first she supposed that this was none other than that which adorned the hill behind her father 's dwelling ; and fancied that by some unknown means she had escaped from the power of her enemy , in time to obtain its concealment . 
But a second glance convinced her that she was now far away from her beloved home , and a captive of the enemy . 
The forest extended in every direction as far as the eye could penetrate ; every where one unmingled and solemn mass of waving foliage met her eye , save when she turned it to the pale blue skies above . 
Near her , and stretched upon the ground in a deep and listless slumber , she now perceived the companion of her misfortunes . 
Ere Lucy again woke to the remembrance of her captivity , a strong sunlight was piercing the sombre shades of the forest , and the loud guttural tones of her Indian guides were mingling harshly on her ear . 
She arose and gazed earnestly around her . 
Meanwhile that strength and decision of thought , which had long been nursed in secret within the bosom of Lucy Everett , was seeking to reveal itself in appropriate action . 
The character of the Indians as a people had long been known to her ; and though that instinctive horror with which the early settlers of New-England naturally regarded this savage race , prevented her in some measure from appreciating those nobler traits of character , which we who live in later days have leisure to admire , she still knew that they were human beings , and that there are in every human heart , some tender chords to vibrate at the touch of a skilful hand ; that however true to them as a race those stern features of cruelty , there were still individual exceptions . 
She therefore determined to analyze the various expressions of character in her savage companions , and to endeavor if possible to excite in her own behalf , the glow of benevolent feeling ; for without doubt a long and painful journey was before her , unless indeed some sudden kindling of wrath should sacrifice her at once to their fury . 
While these thoughts were revolving in her mind , the Indians continued their debate around her , with many wild and fierce gestures . 
They gazed frequently upon their beautiful captive ; and Lucy fancied that , every time , their glances returned upon her with a calmer and less ferocious aspect . 
There was indeed much in her appearance to soften the resentment of her savage guards ; for while her youth and the tenderness of her sex claimed their pity , the beauty of her person , and the high and graceful demeanor , seemed well fitted to call forth the more powerful principle of admiration . 
Beauty has its influence even with the savage , and Lucy Everett 's was precisely of that style of which an Indian would be most likely to acknowledge the power . 
There was no obsequious and fawning servility , no meek intreaty for life -- the maiden knew too well the character of her foe ; a haughty smile was on her lip , her step was free and proud , as she moved through the windings of the forest , and the glance of the Indian frequently sunk beneath the brilliant flashes of spirit that gleamed from the dark eye of the captive maiden . 
There was also manifested on all occasions a kind of fearless confidence in their generosity , exactly suited to win the hearts of her proud companions . 
Whenever danger approached , she drew nearer to them , as if claiming their protection , and the sweet and gentle smile with which their acts of kindness were rewarded , was rendered more acceptable by the usual reserve of her manner . 
A spirit of kindness was gradually diffusing itself through the hearts of some of her companions , and now only waited for a meet occasion , or some slight increase of excitement , to reveal itself in her favor . 
With the exception of Lucy , by far the most interesting and prominent figure was that of a tall and well formed youth , reclining against a fragment of rock in the center of the group below , and at that moment an object of fixed and earnest attention to every individual which composed it . 
At another moment , in an hour of security , Lucy Everett could scarce have regarded without fear and horror the ferocious aspect of the young savage , his long hair waving in the night breeze , and every feature kindled with a glow of unnatural excitement . 
But the heart of the captive had become strangely inured to sights like these ; and amid all the terror and anguish of her long march , when looks of cunning , and cruelty , and savage hate , glanced upon her from the eyes of her fierce conductors , and angry voices rung around her , there had ever been a tone of kindness on the lip of the young Alaska , and a look of pity and compassion , softening the sternness of his glance . 
Lucy had from the first regarded him with a feeling of secret confidence ; and by degrees and almost insensibly , had begun to hope that he would become her deliverer from captivity . 
Some ancient legend , some tale of high and daring deeds evidently claimed their attention ; the dark faces around her every moment assuming some new expression of savage triumph , and every lip trembling with exclamations of wild excitement . 
Then came a burst of song -- supported at first only by the mellow tones of Alaska , but gradually swelling and deepening until every voice had mingled with his , and the wild inspiring melody thrown back on her ear in the loud echoes of the forest , became overpowering . 
Lucy turned shuddering away , and no longer wondered at their deeds of inhuman daring . 
But these at last died away ; and on raising her eye amid the silence that succeeded , she perceived with surprise and fear , that the attention of the whole party had become suddenly transferred to herself . 
Her apprehensions , however , were soon relieved by the gestures of the chief , who , after repeated attempts , at length succeeded in intimating to her the desire of her companions that she should furnish them with a specimen of the songs of her country . 
Requests in this instance were but commands ; and Lucy , after revolving in her mind the various simple airs with which she was familiar , selected one , which , for its exquisite tenderness and depth of melody , was well worthy of the occasion . 
Whatever the decision might be , it was evident that the old chief felt himself compelled to acquiesce in it ; and after casting on Lucy a lingering look of regret , he quickly stretched himself on the earth for his evening repose . 
His example was soon followed by all except those appointed guard for the night ; and Lucy herself , to avoid suspicion , reclined her cheek on the cold and dreary turf . 
It was an hour of bitter suffering ; and the young maiden now sought earnestly to recal to her recollection those lessons of holy truth , which in moments of gladness had fallen so lightly on her heart . 
Earth for her was now no more , its pleasant toils , its gay hopes and affections , were all over , and the grave -- the lonely and unknown grave was henceforth to be her resting place . 
The last effort had been made for her , and made in vain ; and the elasticity of youthful hope , which had hitherto borne her with incredible strength and cheerfulness through the perils of her long march , now seemed broken and crushed forever . 
And after all , she was to die just in the spring-time of her being , far away from all who would have soothed the bitterness of death , and among cruel strangers . 
Lucy still walked by the side of the Chief , but though her eye glanced frequently over the band , she could no where discover the youthful favorite ; and indeed the Indians themselves seemed uneasy at his absence , frequently pausing and searching the openings around them , as if expecting his appearance . 
Lucy ventured therefore , to demand of them an hour 's repose , assuring them , by signs , that the strength thus acquired would more than compensate for the loss of time . 
With an air of as much composure as she could assume , Lucy now reclined herself in the shadow of the clustering maples , and leaning her head on her hand , feigned that repose , the need of which , she had urged as an excuse for their present delay . 
They spoke occasionally in low whispers ; and whenever Lucy ventured to lift her eye , she perceived that they were gazing anxiously around them , as if in constant expection of an alarm . 
The prescribed period had indeed nearly elapsed , and Lucy was already shuddering at the gathering signs of impatience on the countenances of her conductors when her eye became suddenly fixed on the opposite thicket . 
The fierce words which immediately ensued , were to Lucy totally unintelligible ; but it was evident that on the part of her guides an expression of servility mingled with angry looks , while the countenance of the stranger chief exhibited only haughty reproach . 
There was nothing in the appearance of the stranger at all calculated to soothe her fears , and yet after glancing a moment upon her Indian friend , she was convinced that this was the anticipated succor . 
The chief hastened to inform her that she was to accompany him ; and , with a fresh impulse of strength and hope , she prepared to obey the intimation . 
When the little summit was once more gained , Lucy Everett turned for a farewell glance at those whom , a few minutes before , she had regarded as her murderers . 
They were still standing in the same posture in which she had left them , gazing after her with looks of deadly hate , and even now scarcely restraining the expressions of their savage resentment . 
Alaska had separated himself from the group ; and , as long as Lucy could discern the sheltered nook , he was still standing with folded arms , and gazing after her with looks of mingled joy and sadness . 
The captive waved her hand in token of gratitude , and the nodding foliage soon hid the whole company from her view . 
They had retraced for some time , the path which Lucy had so recently trodden , when the leader of the band plunged into the midst of a dark thicket to the left , commanding the rest to follow him . 
Lucy turned for a moment , shuddering from the cold dark wave , but there was no alternative . 
With a glance of fervent but unmurmured supplication to heaven , she now followed her guide to the margin of the stream , and was soon seated beside him in the rude canoe . 
The broad river was now gradually widening into a bold and majestic bay ; and Lucy soon found herself , in that frail bark , and with that savage companion , alone on an inlet of the wide sea . 
They had already passed the entrenchments , and half fainting with terror and embarrassment , Lucy soon found herself standing amid a sudden glare of light at the entrance of the building , every sense dazzled and bewildered with this unexpected transition from the gloom and silence of the forest . 
Curious glances began one by one to fasten upon it , until Lucy Everett would have welcomed joyfully even the gloom and shadow of the wilderness . 
The various objects around her had however exerted so absorbing an influence upon her attention , that the absence of the Indian chief had not been noticed , until she now perceived him approaching from a distant part of the hall . 
The conversation still continued ; but Lucy Everett heard no more . 
She looked tremblingly around the apartment . 
It was the palace Castine , that strong hold of superstition and cruelty whose very name had once chilled her heart ; and she was here , a lone and unprotected prisoner , within the very walls where all those fearful plans of ruin for her people had been maturing , the very scene where the treacherous peace had been plotted , the ambuscade , the war-cry , the cold blooded murder . 
The chief again entered the apartment , and Lucy Everett found herself summoned to the presence of the object of her terror . 
Perhaps it was the consciousness that she had nothing to hope from his mercy , that now banished the lingerings of timidity , imparting to the face and graceful carriage of the maiden , that expression of calm fearlessness , with which she slowly entered the apartment of the Baron Castine . 
It was not until she had reached its center , that summoning all her resolution for the effort she slowly raised her eye . 
The first object which arrested it was a lofty and dignified form reclining against the table before her . 
His dress was plain and simply elegant , his features were decidedly handsome , nay there was an expression irresistibly attractive , in the large , mild , bright eye that seemed calmly reading her features . 
But the unsatisfied glance of Lucy still wandered on in search of that one dreaded object which filled her thoughts ; and she immediately discovered at the remote end of the table , a person who seemed to answer to the fearful picture , and indeed his whole appearance formed a striking contrast to that of his companion ; but her glance sunk quietly down , beneath the searching cunning of his sunken eye . 
Lucy started with surprise , for that voice fell from the lips of the mild and pleasant looking stranger , who had first attracted her eye . 
`` That were a shame indeed , '' exclaimed the maiden suddenly and involuntarily , the proud current of her English blood mounting high in her young cheek , `` it were a sin and a shame for the daughter of one of its holiest ministers . '' 
An involuntary start announced the astonishment of her auditors . 
But the high flush of indignant spirit which for a moment had given energy to her exhausted frame , was now again vanished . 
There was yet however another effort to be made , suppressing for a moment the sensations of deadly weariness that oppressed her , she drew nearer to the table on which they leaned . 
`` Noble Baron , I pray your pity , '' she exclaimed in a low and faultering voice , `` I am my father 's only child -- he would purchase my ransom joyfully . '' 
continued the captive , heedless of his orders , and unfastening from her neck , as she spoke , a richly set miniature . 
beautiful Lucy Mc Gregor , '' she continued , gazing for a moment earnestly upon it , `` my mother will grieve bitterly to part with thee , but surely , thou art not more precious to her than her own living Lucy . 
The gentlemen seemed alike startled by the earnestness of her manner and a heavy frown for a moment knit the smooth brows of the Baron , as she laid the jewelled miniature on the table before him . 
`` She was -- she was , '' replied Lucy , with bitterness . 
My Lord , '' she continued turning to the nobleman who still gazed upon the miniature , `` she was my father 's cousin , and this is the last memorial which is left him of one who was dearer to him than life . 
The Baron de Castine raised his eye , a new expression seemed to have gathered on his pale and haughty features , and Lucy Everett read at once in that stern , cold , and angry glance , that her prayer was rejected . 
Her nature could endure no more . 
The objects of the apartment seemed swimming in sudden darkness before her , there was a sensation like death , a dim perception of strange and stern faces bent around her , and all was vanished . 
The wild visions of delirium now succeeded that long train of bewildering realities ; but these were comparatively happy , for now came the soft and beautiful illusions of home , a father 's arm protected her amid every danger , and even in the moments of her wildest suffering , the sweet melody of her mother 's voice lulled and soothed her spirit . 
Lucy Everett awoke from a long and refreshing slumber to recollection and reason . 
She was lying on a couch of elegant workmanship beneath a light and fanciful covering . 
A few fragrant and fresh gathered flowers lay scattered on the fair covering ; and a vase containing a still more beautiful variety , stood on the low toilette beside her . 
It was a bright still summer afternoon , and the lofty window open before her , commanded a prospect of extreme and varied beauty . 
There was much that , to Lucy at least , seemed singular in the person and manner of the young devotee . 
Notwithstanding the unusual richness of her whole dress , and the air of hauteur which seemed to proclaim the lady of rank , too deep a shade was mingled over her fine and well formed features for a daughter of the European race , while the soft glow that suffused her countenance seemed too clear and vivid for the cheek of an Indian maiden . 
She wore on her bosom a small diamond cross , a golden rosary adorned her neck , and her long dark hair was wound in braided tresses around her head . 
But the invalid felt that it was the face of a stranger ; and pained and wearied , she turned away murmuring in grieved tones the name of her parents , until a sudden and violent flood of weeping relieved her anguish . 
The stranger , meanwhile , still bent over her , unconscious of the meaning of those impassioned words , and uttering in her foreign language , every expression of condolence , which sympathy or affection could suggest . 
`` If you do indeed pity me , '' exclaimed Lucy , at length adopting the language of her companion , `` let me go home and die in my mother 's arms . '' 
Oh , it is a bitter thing to die , '' -- she added , in murmuring tones , -- `` but to die among the despisers of the true faith , far away from all who love me , and in the dwelling of this proud and wicked Baron -- '' Three successive times the lady had crossed herself during this burst of feeling , and at the conclusion of it , her keen dark eye flashed with a sudden expression of wounded pride . 
He was apparently engaged in mending a broken bow ; but Lucy noticed that as he persevered in his employment , his eyes were occasionally directed , as if by stealth , to the windows of her apartment . 
There was nothing in his appearance or employment , at all peculiar , save that he hummed as he worked , occasional snatches of that well remembered song , which Alaska had formerly used as the vehicle of his communications to her in the forest ; and at times too , she fancied that the voice itself seemed familiar . 
But the object of her curiosity soon arose from the pavement ; and after gazing cautiously about him , he turned suddenly and directed his aim against the palace walls . 
Lucy now watched his seemingly unimportant manœuvres with intense interest , for the light was still sufficient to reveal the form and features of the noble hearted Alaska . 
Several times he had shot carelessly against the wall , as if to test the mended string ; but Lucy had noticed that each successive time the aim was higher , and she was seeking to ascertain whether this circumstance was indeed accidental , when she perceived with surprise that he had again fixed his aim , and was evidently about to let fly his arrow , precisely at the spot where she now stood . 
In a moment she had retreated from the window , and the next , the arrow whizzed past her . 
It was several moments ere she had sufficiently recovered from her surprise to venture from her retreat , and she then timidly approached to examine the arrow . 
It yielded to her touch , and the next moment a bracelet dropped to the floor . 
It was her own , and braided of one of those auburn locks that had waved on her mother 's head in the day of her youth and beauty ; and , with a sudden cry of joy , the captive at once realized that she beheld a token from her distant home . 
She leaned again from the window . 
That she was the person to whom Alaska alluded , Lucy could not for a moment doubt ; and the singular and uniform kindness with which she had from the first regarded her , together with the repeated assurance of her sympathy and assistance , all designated her as a proper object for confidence . 
`` Forgive me , Lady Antoinette , '' exclaimed Lucy , at length interrupting the painful silence , `` if I have presumed too much on your friendship . 
`` Speak lower , Mademoiselle , '' replied her companion , pointing to the door of the apartment , `` the guards were at this end of the corridor as I passed , and if they overhear us we are ruined . 
But , Lucy , I do indeed love you , '' she added , pausing before her , and her dark eyes filling with tears . 
But , Lucy , I can not do this alone . 
I could do all but this for you , Lucy Everett . '' 
`` Lucy Everett , '' replied Antoinette , after some minutes of thoughtful silence , `` we must make Madame La Framboise our confidant . 
Aye , -- do not fear her ; she is a Catholic indeed , but so are we all , and she is full of invention and skill , and knows well how to conduct such stratagems as we shall have need of . 
I know too that she pities your misfortunes . '' 
Lucy Everett could not for a moment doubt the sincerity of this earnest appeal ; but her heart died within her , as the sound of retreating steps grew faint in the distance , and she found herself once more alone , in the solitude of her prison . 
Itwas a sleepless night for more than one in the palace of Castine ; and ere the pale beam of morning had looked through her curtains , Lucy had arisen from her weary couch , to await with renewed fearfulness the crisis of her doom . 
exclaimed Lucy , breathing quick and gaspingly . 
Fear him not , Lucy . 
`` No , Lucy . 
But , Lucy , hear me . 
`` You can not , Lucy , '' replied the other , in a still lower tone , `` you can not accompanyme , you must go in my stead . '' 
Lucy felt at once that the project was not hopeless . 
The French maiden was tall and slender like herself ; and though her complexion and whole countenance , presented a striking contrast to her own , now pale and delicate , from recent illness , the plan was yet worth attempting . 
`` And if the discovery should take place too soon , '' exclaimed Lucy , as these thoughts passed hastily through her mind . 
`` Tell him the whole , dear Lucy . 
Dear Lucy , do not tremble thus . 
No , I can not stay , '' she added , as the captive would fain have detained her longer . 
Fear nothing , Lucy , only be cool and collected . '' 
One moment , homewith its thousand soothing endearments , friends , and kindred , all seemed her own ; the agony of fear was over and she lay a free and happy being weeping on her mother 's bosom . 
The next , an imprisonment far more gloomy and hopeless , arose to her fancy ; she remembered the ferocity of the Roman priesthood , and cruelties untried and unknown , nay , death itself , seemed the fearful alternative . 
Overcome with these agitating reflections , she had hardly noticed the flight of time , until the broad disk of the sun just lingered above the forest , throwing a last flood of radiance over the objects of her apartment . 
The captive now ceased her wearied step ; and with flushed cheek and throbbing heart she threw herself on her couch , seeking with a strong effort to recover something of that calmness which she knew her exigencies so much required . 
`` And now fear nothing , Lucy Everett , '' exclaimed Antionette , `` the boat is ready and Louis hath promised to go the moment that Vespers are over . 
The arrangements were now completed , but Lucy Everett still lingered . 
Amid the confusion , the hurry and agony of suspense , the idea of a separation from her generous benefactress , had scarcely occupied a moment 's attention , and until now she had never perceived how strong were the feelings which that unwearied kindness had kindled . 
`` Come , come , Lady Antoinette , '' said Madame La Framboise , drawing Lucy 's arm in hers as she threw open the door . 
`` If you linger longer here , the mass will be over ere we reach the chapel , '' and so saying she sallied forth into the corridor , with her trembling companion . 
Lucy clasped her arm convulsively in hers , for at that moment they were passing the door . 
`` We are almost at the chapel , '' said her companion in a whisper , as they descended a narrow staircase . 
Lucy had now need of some higher encouragement than aught which the benediction of the catholic could impart , for at that moment the bell ceased , the door opened , and amid a stream of pure and beautiful light they moved slowly through the aisles of the chapel . 
To the agitated heart of the prisoner , every eye in this throng of worshippers , seemed at once to have detected beneath her light disguise , the form and features of the English Heretic . 
In a moment after , she was bowing beside her companion , silent and unnoticed . 
A quick succession of overpowering ideas crowded to the mind of the young puritan , as those rites and ceremonies which from her earliest recollection she had regarded only with unmingled horror , now burst upon her in all their imposing splendor . 
She raised her eye , loosening for a moment the crowded folds that veiled her features . 
The lights , the pictures , the wreathing music , the low , rich mournful melody from the chanting choir , all came over her bewildered fancy like the dim shadows of that land where the faint perceptions of faith vanish amid the light of glorious realities . 
Surprised and indignant at this powerful effect on her feelings , she now strove altogether to divert her attention , and in wandering over the chapel , her eye became fixed on a figure near the door , standing alone and erect amid the kneeling throng . 
There were traces of deep thought and feeling on his countenance , almost contradicting the extreme youth otherwise indicated . 
His eye wandered carelessly over the kneeling assembly , and now and then a shade of contempt deepened the cold smile with which he surveyed them . 
Lucy gazed for a moment in suspense , but it was only for a moment ; and with a thrill of delight and astonishment she now recognized the lonely and disguised stranger who had once so deeply claimed her sympathy . 
said a low whisper beside her , at once recalling the recollection of her fearful situation . 
Madam La Framboise might well utter these astonished and terrified exclamations ; for in the joy of that unexpected recognition , her young companion had for a moment forgotten the perilous circumstances that surrounded her . 
At length the last benediction was said , the assembly began quickly to disperse ; and Lucy Everett , leaning on the arm of her companion , moved slowly through the crowded aisle . 
Notwithstanding the drapery which now so thickly veiled her features , Lucy could still dimly perceive the form of the young officer standing unmoved , near the entrance . 
They were approaching the spot where he stood , and a single word or look might make him aware of her presence . 
But at that moment , a quick pressure of her arm again warned her of the perils around her . 
`` Look , Antoinette , '' said her companion in her usual careless tone , `` see here is your brother waiting to accompany you . '' 
`` Where , where , '' whispered Lucy , returning the grasp convulsively , and in vain seeking to discover among the crowd the person to whom she alluded . 
But at that moment another glimpse at the mysterious stranger , again absorbed her whole attention . 
His eye was earnestly fixed upon her . 
Had he then detected her earnest glances ? 
Her heart throbbed convulsively , for he was now advancing to meet them . 
said the stranger in that well remembered voice , which had last rung on her ear amid the forest of H -- . 
`` Ready -- aye that she is , '' answered Madame La Framboise , disregarding the sudden emotion evinced by her companion . 
`` You had better take your brother 's arm , Antoinette , '' she continued with a slight and meaning pressure , and at the same time disengaging herself from her clinging grasp . 
`` A pleasant row , '' and smiling and bowing she disappeared . 
Surprised , bewildered , and embarrassed beyond measure , with her arm in that of her companion , Lucy now moved rapidly through the palace . 
At length they stood on the shore , just above the point where Lucy and her savage companions had first landed . 
It was a clear and beautiful night , the dewy breeze blew cool and gently over her , as she landed in the shadow of the rock while her companion slowly loosened the boat from its moorings . 
And now as the light oars rose and fell , slowly and gracefully , the boat moved forth from the shadows of the shore , scarcely leaving a trace of her light path amid the liquid moonbeams . 
Lucy Everett gazed on the dark rock and its frowning walls , so long her prison , now slowly receding in the distance , and for the first time amid the agitating events of the evening , the consciousness of her freedom rushed upon her mind . 
Those fearful barriers were at length past -- the guarded hall , the court , the battlements , all were safely past , she was no longer a captive ; and her whole soul rose , like a freed bird rejoicing . 
`` Antoinette , '' exclaimed her companion , now for the first time interrupting the stillness , `` you have grown strangely silent since vespers . '' 
Lucy felt painfully that her part was now indeed but ill performed . 
She well knew what rich tones of kindness such an annunciation would have drawn from the affectionate Antoinette , but she dared not to trust her voice and she was silent . 
exclaimed Lucy , who felt that silence now would not be overlooked . 
He paused a moment , and the impropriety , the indelicacy of thus intruding upon his confidence , became now so extremely embarrassing to his companion , that only a constant recurrence to the instructions of her benefactress , prevented her from revealing her character . 
But surely it would ill become her , to cast a blot upon the name of one whom Antoinette called brother ; and determining to preserve her disguise , until the appearance of her promised guides , should relieve her companion from all wilful share in her escape , she still maintained a painful silence . 
A cold dew gathered on Lucy 's brow ; she breathed slow , and heavily . 
`` During my late secret expedition , '' continued her companion , `` I met with a beautiful highminded and gentle creature , all unlearned in the knowledge of a cold and heartless world , but just such an one as the bright ideal around which my affections have ever clustered . 
She was a puritan girl , and her name , Lucy Everett . '' 
Lucy Everett is now a prisoner of the Indians , perhaps , '' -- and his voice sunk , `` perhaps already their victim . 
The very night I left her native village , it was burned and plundered , and many of its inhabitants made captive . 
Among these were Lucy Everett and her servant . 
The latter I found among the prisoners at Quebec , but of the former I can learn nothing , save that she was separated from the rest on the first night of her captivity . 
As the preserver of my life , Lucy Everett claims your kindness . 
During my residence at H -- , Vandreuil , fully aware of my sentiments with regard to some of his proceedings , dispatched messengers with instructions to murder me in secret , and but for the exertions , of this same Lucy Everett , I might now be sleeping in a distant and unknown grave . 
Her character , her religion , her nation were the same , and her name too , my fair mother 's name was Lucy -- Lucy Mc Gregor . 
repeated his auditress , in amazement , completely thrown off her guard by this unexpected disclosure . 
But she suddenly ceased her hurried exclamations ; her companion was now gazing at her with looks of fixed astonishment . 
The young maiden slowly drew aside her veil , a shower of moonbeams fell upon her countenance , revealing at once to the eye of her astonished companion , the fair , rose-dyed features of Lucy Everett . 
There was something almost ludicrous , in the expression of that sudden and bewildered astonishment , with which he now silently surveyed her . 
Briefly and simply , Lucy Everett told her tale . 
`` And do you think then , '' exclaimed the youth in reply to her last remark , `` that I would thus idly throw away my recovered treasure ? 
Did I hear you aright , Lucy Everett ? 
No , dear Lucy , '' he added again plying the oar , `` I leave you no more until I see you safe under your father 's protection . '' 
`` It is Alaska , '' whispered Lucy , as her companion looked sternly and suspiciously towards him . 
`` My brother , '' replied the maiden with a smile brushing away the dew that had gathered on her cheek , `` she of whom you speak is a lowly being , and all unworthy of the love of one so noble . 
It is a destiny too exalted for such an one as Lucy Everett . '' 
As she spoke , the light gleamed full upon her countenance ; she drew the veil once more around her , but not until Louis de Castine had read upon her bright and blushing features , the full approval of his love . 
They were now landed in silence , among the clustering foliage at a short distance below the rock ; and leaning upon the arm of her conductor , Lucy Everett moved tremblingly along the shore . 
A gleam of joy kindled his dark features as he recognized the English captive , but this was immediately exchanged for something of sadness , of deep and melancholy curiosity , as he glanced upon the form of her conductor . 
For a few moments , Lucy Everett and her companion stood the silent and surprised spectators of the scene ; but the eye of the former soon rested on a single figure , apart from the rest , and reclining in the attitude of devotion . 
The next moment , with a wild and joyful cry , Lucy Everett had sprung from her retreat . 
She flung back the mantling drapery , and there , in the light apparel of the catholic maiden , she stood , the loved and wept , his own long lost and beautiful daughter . 
Lucy Everett was an orphan . 
They to whom she had been as the green clustering ivy on the ruins , had gone , one by one , to heaven , and had left her on the earth a lonely orphan . 
So she bade a last farewell to the green graves of her parents , and her native land , and ere long the ancient castle of Castine rung with shouts of welcome to the youthful Baroness , no less kind and beautiful , but more blessed of heaven than her unfortunate predecessor . 
