Her younger sister , Julia , was of a more lively cast . 
She had often forgot her sorrows in these amusements , when her mind was too much occupied to derive consolation from books , and she was assiduous to impart to Emilia and Julia a power so valuable as that of beguiling the sense of affliction . 
Julia was uncommonly susceptible of the charms of harmony . 
She had feelings which trembled in unison to all its various and enchanting powers . 
The instructions of madame she caught with astonishing quickness and in a short time attained to a degree of excellence in her favourite study , which few persons have ever exceeded . 
Her manner was entirely her own . 
It was not in the rapid intricacies of execution , that she excelled so much as in that delicacy of taste , and in those enchanting powers of expression , which seem to breathe a soul through the sound , and which take captive the heart of the hearer . 
The lute was her favourite instrument , and its tender notes accorded well with the sweet and melting tones of her voice . 
Julia , who discovered an early taste for books , loved to retire in an evening to a small closet in which she had collected her favourite authors . 
Her musical instruments were here deposited , with whatever assisted her favourite amusements . 
This spot , which was at once elegant , pleasant , and retired , was embellished with many little ornaments of her own invention , and with some drawings executed by her sister . 
The closet was adjoining her chamber , and was separated from the apartments of madame , only by a short gallery . 
It was in one of these rooms that she usually spent the mornings , occupied in the improvement of her young charge . 
The city of Palermo was also distinguishable ; and Julia , as she gazed on its glittering spires , would endeavour in imagination to depicture its beauties , while she secretly sighed for a view of that world , from which she had hitherto been secluded by the mean jealousy of the marchioness , upon whose mind the dread of rival beauty operated strongly to the prejudice of Emilia and Julia . 
She employed all her influence over the marquis to detain them in retirement ; and , though Emilia was now twenty , and her sister eighteen , they had never passed the boundaries of their father 's domains . 
The figure of Julia was light and graceful -- her step was airy -- her mien animated , and her smile enchanting . 
Her eyes were dark , and full of fire , but tempered with modest sweetness . 
Her features were finely turned -- every laughing grace played round her mouth , and her countenance quickly discovered all the various emotions of her soul . 
The dark auburn hair which curled in beautiful profusion in her neck , gave a finishing charm to her appearance . 
But they were happy , for they knew not enough of the world seriously to regret the want of its enjoyments , though Julia would sometimes sigh for the airy image which her fancies painted , and a painful curiosity would arise concerning the busy scenes from which she was excluded . 
A return to her customary amusements , however , would chase the ideal image from her mind , and restore her usual happy complacency . 
Books , music , and painting , divided the hours of her leisure , and many beautiful summer evenings were spent in the pavillion , where the refined conversation of madame , the poetry of Tasso , the lute of Julia , and the friendship of Emilia , combined to form a species of happiness , such as elevated and highly susceptible minds are alone capable of receiving or communicating . 
Julia had one night remained in her closet later than usual . 
A favourite book had engaged her attention beyond the hour of customary repose , and every inhabitant of the castle , except herself , had long been lost in sleep . 
She was roused from her forgetfulness , by the sound of the castle clock , which struck one . 
Surprised at the lateness of the hour , she rose in haste , and was moving to her chamber , when the beauty of the night attracted her to the window . 
She opened it ; and observing a fine effect of moon-light upon the dark woods , leaned forwards . 
In that situation she had not long remained , when she perceived a light faintly flash though a casement in the uninhabited part of the castle . 
A sudden tremor seized her , and she with difficulty supported herself . 
Astonished and terrified at what she had seen , she hurried to the apartment of madame de Menon , and related the circumstance . 
She perceived that Vincent was absent , but as she was ordering him to be called , he entered the hall . 
On the following day Emilia and Julia dined with the marquis . 
Emilia and Julia dreaded the arrival of the marchioness , whose influence they had long been sensible of , and from whose presence they anticipated a painful restraint . 
Neither did Julia contemplate with indifference the approaching festival . 
A new scene was now opening to her , which her young imagination painted in the warm and glowing colours of delight . 
Julia , who in the distance , had considered the splendid gaieties of life with tranquillity , now lingered with impatient hope through the moments which withheld her from their enjoyments . 
Julia surveyed the scene from an obscure window ; and as the triumphal strains filled the air , her breast throbbed , her heart beat quick with joy , and she lost her apprehensions from the marchioness in a sort of wild delight hither-to unknown to her . 
When the marquis came out to receive her , the gloom that lately clouded his countenance , broke away in smiles of welcome , which the whole company appeared to consider as invitations to joy . 
Julia pointed out to her sister , the graceful figure of a young man who followed the marchioness , and she expressed her wishes that he might be her brother . 
Julia trembled with apprehension , and for a few moments wished the castle was in its former state . 
As they advanced through the saloon , in which they were presented , Julia was covered with blushes , but Emilia , tho ' equally timid , preserved her graceful dignity . 
The eager eyes of Julia sought in vain to discover her brother , of whose features she had no recollection in those of any of the persons then present . 
At length her father presented him , and she perceived with a sigh of regret , that he was not the youth she had observed from the window . 
He advanced with a very engaging air , and she met him with an unfeigned welcome . 
The day of the festival , so long and so impatiently looked for by Julia , was now arrived . 
Although conscious of her charms , she beheld the beauty of Emilia and Julia with a jealous eye , and was compelled secretly to acknowledge , that the simple elegance with which they were adorned , was more enchanting than all the studied artifice of splendid decoration . 
Julia experienced a various emotion of pleasure and fear when the count de Vereza , in whom she recollected the cavalier she had observed from the window , led her forth . 
The grace of her step , and the elegant symmetry of her figure , raised in the assembly a gentle murmur of applause , and the soft blush which now stole over her cheek , gave an additional charm to her appearance . 
But when the music changed , and she danced to the soft Sicilian measure , the airy grace of her movement , and the unaffected tenderness of her air , sunk attention into silence , which continued for some time after the dance had ceased . 
She had suffered a very painful solicitude , when the count de Vereza selected her for his partner in the dance , and she pursued him through the evening , with an eye of jealous scrutiny . 
Her bosom , which before glowed only with love , was now torn by the agitation of other passions more violent and destructive . 
Her thoughts were restless , her mind wandered from the scene before her , and it required all her address to preserve an apparent ease . 
She saw , or fancied she saw , an impassioned air in the count , when he addressed himself to Julia , that corroded her heart with jealous fury . 
Julia seemed the magic queen of the place . 
Her heart dilated with pleasure , and diffused over her features an expression of pure and complacent delight . 
A generous , frank , and exalted sentiment sparkled in her eyes , and animated her manner . 
Her bosom glowed with benevolent affections ; and she seemed anxious to impart to all around her , a happiness as unmixed as that she experienced . 
Wherever she moved , admiration followed her steps . 
`` He is certainly of all others the man most deserving the lady Julia . 
I was interceding with the marchioness for her interest in your favour , with the lady Julia ; but she absolutely refuses it ; and though she allows you merit , alledges , that you are by nature fickle and inconstant . 
What say you -- would not the beauty of lady Julia bind your unsteady heart ? '' 
`` I know not how I have deserved that character of the marchioness , '' said the count , with a smile , `` but that heart must be either fickle or insensible in an uncommon degree , which can boast of freedom in the presence of lady Julia . '' 
Julia retired from the scene with regret . 
She was enchanted with the new world that was now exhibited to her , and she was not cool enough to distinguish the vivid glow of imagination from the colours of real bliss . 
The pleasure she now felt , she believed would always be renewed , and in an equal degree , by the objects which first excited it . 
The passions which had hitherto lain concealed in Julia 's heart , touched by circumstance , dilated to its power , and afforded her a slight experience of the pain and delight which flow from their influence . 
The beauty and accomplishments of Vereza , raised in her a new and various emotion , which reflection made her fear to encourage , but which was too pleasing to be wholly resisted . 
Julia sought with eager anxiety to discover the sentiments of Vereza towards her ; she revolved each circumstance of the day , but they afforded her little satisfaction ; they reflected only a glimmering and uncertain light , which instead of guiding , served only to perplex her . 
Now she remembered some instance of particular attention , and then some mark of apparent indifference . 
She compared his conduct with that of the other young noblesse ; and thought each appeared equally desirous of the favour of every lady present . 
All the ladies , however , appeared to her to court the admiration of Vereza , and she trembled lest he should be too sensible of the distinction . 
Till then Emilia had shared all her thoughts ; they now descended to the breakfast room in silence , and Julia almost feared to meet her eye . 
Julia found it impossible to support a conversation with Emilia , whose observations interrupting the course of her thoughts , became uninteresting and tiresome . 
Julia , who had awaited with so painful an impatience for the moment which should present Vereza to her sight , now sighed that it was arrived . 
She scarcely dared to lift her timid eyes from the ground , and when by accident they met his , a soft tremour seized her ; and apprehension lest he should discover her sentiments , served only to render her confusion conspicuous . 
At length a glance from the marchioness recalled her bewildered thoughts ; and other fears superceding those of love , her mind , by degrees , recovered its dignity . 
She could distinguish in the behaviour of Vereza no symptoms of particular admiration , and she resolved to conduct herself towards him with the most scrupulous care . 
Ferdinand played the violincello , Vereza the german flute , and Julia the piano forte , which she touched with a delicacy and execution that engaged every auditor . 
The confusion of Julia may be easily imagined , when Ferdinand , selecting a beautiful duet , desired Vereza would accompany his sister . 
Julia observed his behaviour , and gently raising her eyes to his , there read the sentiments which she had inspired . 
An exquisite emotion thrilled her heart , and she experienced one of those rare moments which illumine life with a ray of bliss , by which the darkness of its general shade is contrasted . 
Care , doubt , every disagreeable sensation vanished , and for the remainder of the evening she was conscious only of delight . 
A timid respect marked the manner of Hippolitus , more flattering to Julia than the most ardent professions . 
The evening concluded with a ball , and Julia was again the partner of the count . 
When the ball broke up , she retired to her apartment , but not to sleep . 
Julia listened , and distinguished the following words : An interval of silence followed , and the air was repeated ; after which the music was heard no more . 
If before Julia believed that she was loved by Hippolitus , she was now confirmed in the sweet reality . 
But sleep at length fell upon her senses , and the airy forms of ideal bliss no longer fleeted before her imagination . 
Morning came , and she arose light and refreshed . 
How different were her present sensations from those of the preceding day . 
Her anxiety had now evaporated in joy , and she experienced that airy dance of spirits which accumulates delight from every object ; and with a power like the touch of enchantment , can transform a gloomy desert into a smiling Eden . 
She flew to the breakfast room , scarcely conscious of motion ; but , as she entered it , a soft confusion overcame her ; she blushed , and almost feared to meet the eyes of Vereza . 
She was presently relieved , however , for the count was not there . 
The company assembled -- Julia watched the entrance of every person with painful anxiety , but he for whom she looked did not appear . 
Surprized and uneasy , she fixed her eyes on the door , and whenever it opened , her heart beat with an expectation which was as often checked by disappointment . 
In spite of all her efforts her vivacity sunk into languor , and she then perceived that love may produce other sensations than those of delight . 
She found it possible to be unhappy , though loved by Hippolitus ; and acknowledged with a sigh of regret , which was yet new to her , how tremblingly her peace depended upon him . 
He neither appeared nor was mentioned at breakfast ; but though delicacy prevented her enquiring after him , conversation soon became irksome to her , and she retired to the apartment of Madame de Menon . 
There she employed herself in painting , and endeavoured to beguile the time till the hour of dinner , when she hoped to see Hippolitus . 
Madame was , as usual , friendly and cheerful , but she perceived a reserve in the conduct of Julia , and penetrated without difficulty into its cause . 
She was , however , ignorant of the object of her pupil 's admiration . 
The hour so eagerly desired by Julia at length arrived , and with a palpitating heart she entered the hall . 
The count was not there , and in the course of conversation , she learned that he had that morning sailed for Naples . 
The scene which so lately appeared enchanting to her eyes , now changed its hue ; and in the midst of society , and surrounded by gaiety , she was solitary and dejected . 
She accused herself of having suffered her wishes to mislead her judgment ; and the present conduct of Hippolitus convinced her , that she had mistaken admiration , for a sentiment more tender . 
She believed too , that the musician who had addressed her in his sonnet , was not the count ; and thus at once was dissolved all the ideal fabrick of her happiness . 
The tranquil state which she had so lately delighted to quit , she now reflected upon with regret . 
She had , however , the consolation of believing that her sentiments towards the count were unknown , and the sweet consciousness that her conduct had been governed by a nice sense of propriety . 
The public rejoicings at the castle closed with the week ; but the gay spirit of the marchioness forbade a return to tranquillity ; and she substituted diversions more private , but in splendour scarcely inferior to the preceding ones . 
She had observed the behaviour of Hippolitus on the night of the concert with chagrin , and his departure with sorrow ; yet disdaining to perpetuate misfortune by reflection , she sought to lose the sense of disappointment in the hurry of dissipation . 
But her efforts to erase him from her remembrance were ineffectual . 
Unaccustomed to oppose the bent of her inclinations , they now maintained unbounded sway ; and she found too late , that in order to have a due command of our passions , it is necessary to subject them to early obedience . 
The pain which now recoiled upon her heart from disappointment , she had not strength of mind to endure , and she sought relief from its pressure in afflicting the innocent . 
Julia , whose beauty she imagined had captivated the count , and confirmed him in indifference towards herself , she incessantly tormented by the exercise of those various and splenetic little arts , which elude the eye of the common observer , and are only to be known by those who have felt them . 
From Julia 's mind the idea of happiness was now faded . 
Pleasure had withdrawn her beam from the prospect , and the objects no longer illumined by her ray , became dark and colourless . 
As often as her situation would permit , she withdrew from society , and sought the freedom of solitude , where she could indulge in melancholy thoughts , and give a loose to that despair which is so apt to follow the disappointment of our first hopes . 
To this determination the marchioness submitted with decent resignation , for she was here surrounded by a croud of flatterers , and her invention supplied her with continual diversions : that gaiety which rendered Naples so dear to her , glittered in the woods of Mazzini , and resounded through the castle . 
The chambers of Emilia and Julia forming part of the suit , they were also claimed by the marchioness , who left Julia only her favourite closet . 
Julia observed that her chamber , which opened beyond Madame 's , formed a part of the southern building , with which , however , there appeared no means of communication . 
The late mysterious circumstances relating to this part of the fabric , now arose to her imagination , and conjured up a terror which reason could not subdue . 
She told her emotions to Madame , who , with more prudence than sincerity , laughed at her fears . 
The behaviour of the marquis , the dying words of Vincent , together with the preceding circumstances of alarm , had sunk deep in the mind of Madame , but she saw the necessity of confining to her own breast , doubts which time only could resolve . 
Julia endeavoured to reconcile herself to the change , and a circumstance soon occurred which obliterated her present sensations , and excited others far more interesting . 
One day that she was arranging some papers in the small drawers of a cabinet that stood in her apartment , she found a picture which fixed all her attention . 
The mournful sweetness of her eyes , raised towards Heaven with a look of supplication , and the melancholy languor that shaded her features , so deeply affected Julia , that her eyes were filled with involuntary tears . 
She sighed and wept , still gazing on the picture , which seemed to engage her by a kind of fascination . 
She almost fancied that the portrait breathed , and that the eyes were fixed on her 's with a look of penetrating softness . 
Full of the emotions which the miniature had excited , she presented it to Madame , whose mingled sorrow and surprize increased her curiosity . 
But what where the various sensations which pressed upon her heart , on learning that she had wept over the resemblance of her mother ! 
Deprived of a mother 's tenderness before she was sensible of its value , it was now only that she mourned the event which lamentation could not recall . 
`` My brother had a favourite dog which , before he set off , he presented to Julia , and committing it to her care , begged she would be kind to it , and sometimes remember its master . 
He checked his rising emotion , but as he turned from her , I perceived the tear that wetted his cheek . 
At length the time of his return approached , and the enlivened spirits of Julia declared the influence he retained in her heart . 
The joy which illumined his countenance when he met Julia , spoke at once his admiration and his love ; and the blush which her observation of it brought upon her cheek , would have discovered even to an uninterested spectator that this joy was mutual . '' 
Madame ceased to speak , and Emilia and Julia wept to the memory of the mother , whose misfortunes this story recorded . 
One night that Emilia and Julia had been detained , by company , in ceremonial restraint , later than usual , they were induced by the easy conversation of Madame , and by the pleasure which a return to liberty naturally produces , to defer the hour of repose till the night was far advanced . 
Influenced by these considerations , she endeavoured to prevail on Emilia and Julia , to await in silence some confirmation of their surmises , but their terror made this a very difficult task . 
They acquiesced , however , so far with her wishes , as to agree to conceal the preceding circumstances from every person but their brother , without whose protecting presence they declared it utterly impossible to pass another night in the apartments . 
To beguile the tediousness of the time they endeavoured to converse , but the minds of Emilia and Julia were too much affected by the late occurrence to wander from the subject . 
They compared this with the foregoing circumstance of the figure and the light which had appeared ; their imaginations kindled wild conjectures , and they submitted their opinions to Madame , entreating her to inform them sincerely , whether she believed that disembodied spirits were ever permitted to visit this earth . 
`` My children , '' said she , `` I will not attempt to persuade you that the existence of such spirits is impossible . 
He very readily consented to watch with his sisters in Julia 's apartment ; but as his chamber was in a remote part of the castle , there would be some difficulty in passing unobserved to her 's . 
Having thus resolved , Emilia and Julia waited the return of night with restless and fearful impatience . 
The castle clock had struck one , and Julia began to fear that Ferdinand had been discovered , when a knocking was heard at the door of the outer chamber . 
Her heart beat with apprehensions , which reason could not justify . 
They drew their chairs round him , and endeavoured to pass the time in conversation ; but fear and expectation attracted all their thoughts to one subject , and Madame alone preserved her composure . 
He racked his invention for the means of getting access to them , and at length recollecting that Julia 's chamber formed a part of these buildings , it occurred to him , that according to the mode of building in old times , there might formerly have been a communication between them . 
This consideration suggested to him the possibility of a concealed door in her apartment , and he determined to survey it on the following night with great care . 
Emilia and Julia seized his arm ; and almost sinking with apprehension , listened in profound silence . 
Emilia and Julia were scarcely less impatient . 
Emilia and Julia , fearful of remaining in the chamber , resolved to accompany him , and each seizing an arm of Madame , they followed in silence . 
They passed lightly on , for their steps ran in whispering echos through the gallery , and often did Julia cast a fearful glance around . 
The interest which these mysterious circumstances excited in the mind of Julia , had with-drawn her attention from a subject more dangerous to its peace . 
The image of Vereza , notwithstanding , would frequently intrude upon her fancy ; and awakening the recollection of happy emotions , would call forth a sigh which all her efforts could not suppress . 
She loved to indulge the melancholy of her heart in the solitude of the woods . 
One evening she took her lute to a favourite spot on the sea shore , and resigning herself to a pleasing sadness , touched some sweet and plaintive airs . 
The beauty of the scene , the soothing murmur of the high trees , waved by the light air which overshadowed her , and the soft shelling of the waves that flowed gently in upon the shores , insensibly sunk her mind into a state of repose . 
She touched the chords of her lute in sweet and wild melody , and sung the following ode : Having ceased to sing , her fingers wandered over the lute in melancholy symphony , and for some moments she remained lost in the sweet sensations which the music and the scenery had inspired . 
She was awakened from her reverie , by a sigh that stole from among the trees , and directing her eyes whence it came , beheld -- Hippolitus ! 
A thousand sweet and mingled emotions pressed upon her heart , yet she scarcely dared to trust the evidence of sight . 
He advanced , and throwing himself at her feet . 
`` Suffer me '' said he , in a tremulous voice , `` to disclose to you the sentiments which you have inspired , and to offer you the effusions of a heart filled only with love and admiration . '' 
`` Rise my lord , '' said Julia , moving from her seat with an air of dignity , `` that attitude is neither becoming you to use , or me to suffer . 
`` Never will I rise , Madam , '' replied the count , with an impassioned air , `` till '' -- He was interrupted by the marchioness , who at this moment entered the grove . 
On observing the position of the count she was retiring . 
`` Stay Madam , '' said Julia , almost sinking under her confusion . 
Saying this she disappeared , leaving Julia distressed and offended , and the count provoked at the intrusion . 
He attempted to renew the subject , but Julia hastily followed the steps of the marchioness , and entered the castle . 
The scene she had witnessed , raised in the marchioness a tumult of dreadful emotions . 
Love , hatred , and jealousy , raged by turns in her heart , and defied all power of controul . 
Subjected to their alternate violence , she experienced a misery more acute than any she had yet known . 
Her imagination , invigorated by opposition , heightened to her the graces of Hippolitus ; her bosom glowed with more intense passion , and her brain was at length exasperated almost to madness . 
In Julia this sudden and unexpected interview excited a mingled emotion of love and vexation , which did not soon subside . 
At length , however , the delightful consciousness of Vereza 's love bore her high above every other sensation ; again the scene more brightly glowed , and again her fancy overcame the possibility of evil . 
During the evening , a tender and timid respect distinguished the behaviour of the count towards Julia , who , contented with the certainty of being loved , resolved to conceal her sentiments till an explanation of his abrupt departure from Mazzini , and subsequent absence , should have dissipated the shadow of mystery which hung over this part of his conduct . 
She observed that the marchioness pursued her with steady and constant observation , and she carefully avoided affording the count an opportunity of renewing the subject of the preceding interview , which whenever he approached her seemed to tremble on his lips . 
Night returned , and Ferdinand repaired to the chamber of Julia to pursue his enquiry . 
The circumstance that now sunk in terror the minds of Emilia and Julia , fired with new wonder that of Ferdinand , who seizing a light , darted through the discovered door , and almost instantly disappeared . 
When he related the circumstances of his late adventure , the terror of Emilia and Julia was heightened to a degree that overcame every prudent consideration . 
It was resolved , therefore , that one the following day , Madame should acquaint the marchioness with such particulars of the late occurrences as their purpose made it necessary she should know , concealing their knowledge of the hidden door , and the incidents immediately dependant on it ; and that Madame should entreat a change of apartments . 
The marchioness having listened to the account at first with surprize , and afterwards with indifference , condescended to reprove Madame for encouraging superstitious belief in the minds of her young charge . 
She concluded with ridiculing as fanciful the circumstances related , and with refusing , on account of the numerous visitants at the castle , the request preferred to her . 
It is true the castle was crowded with visitors ; the former apartments of Madame de Menon were the only ones unoccupied , and these were in magnificent preparation for the pleasure of the marchioness , who was unaccustomed to sacrifice her own wishes to the comfort of those around her . 
She therefore treated lightly the subject , which , seriously attended to , would have endangered her new plan of delight . 
But Emilia and Julia were too seriously terrified to obey the scruples of delicacy , or to be easily repulsed . 
Meanwhile Hippolitus , who had passed the night in a state of sleepless anxiety , watched with busy impatience , an opportunity of more fully disclosing to Julia , the passion which glowed in his heart . 
The first moment in which he beheld her , had awakened in him an admiration which had since ripened into a sentiment more tender . 
But it was task too painful to depart in silence , and he contrived to inform Julia of his sentiments in the air which she heard so sweetly sung beneath her window . 
The jealous vigilance of the marchioness , conspired with the delicacy of Julia , to with-hold from him the opportunity he so anxiously sought . 
`` You are not ignorant , '' said he , throwing himself into a chair , `` of the tender sentiments which your sister Julia has inspired . 
Her heart , which is so susceptible of other impressions , is , I fear , insensible to love . 
`` Your penetration '' replied Ferdinand , `` has for once forsaken you , else you would now be spared the tortures of which you complain , for you would have discovered what I have long observed , that Julia regards you with a partial eye . '' 
Your perceptions are affected by the warmth of your feelings , and because you think I deserve her distinction , you believe I possess it . 
Believe me , I speak not without reason ; -- she loves you . '' 
During this exclamation , the emotions of Julia , who sat in her closet adjoining , can with difficulty be imagined . 
Agitated with the pleasure this declaration excited , she yet trembled with apprehension lest she should be discovered . 
She hardly dared to breathe , much less to move across the closet to the door , which opened upon the gallery , whence she might probably have escaped unnoticed , lest the sound of her step should betray her . 
Compelled , therefore , to remain where she was , she sat in a state of fearful distress , which no colour of language can paint . 
The heart of Julia beat quick . 
`` When you was so suddenly called to Naples upon the illness of the marquis Lomelli , I marked her conduct well , and in that read the sentiments of her heart . 
On the following morning , I observed in her countenance a restless anxiety which I had never seen before . 
She watched the entrance of every person with an eager expectation , which was as often succeeded by evident disappointment . 
At dinner your departure was mentioned : -- she spilt the wine she was carrying to her lips , and for the remainder of the day was spiritless and melancholy . 
I saw her ineffectual struggles to conceal the oppression at her heart . 
Since that time she has seized every opportunity of withdrawing from company . 
The gaiety with which she was so lately charmed -- charmed her no longer ; she became pensive , retired , and I have often heard her singing in some lonely spot , the most moving and tender airs . 
Your return produced a visible and instantaneous alteration ; she has now resumed her gaiety ; and the soft confusion of her countenance , whenever you approach , might alone suffice to convince you of the truth of my assertion . '' 
lead me to her , that I may speak the sentiments which swell my heart . '' 
They arose , when Julia , who with difficulty had supported herself , now impelled by an irresistible fear of instant discovery , rose also , and moved softly towards the gallery . 
The sound of her step alarmed the count , who , apprehensive left his conversation had been overheard , was anxious to be satisfied whether any person was in the closet . 
He rushed in , and discovered Julia ! 
She caught at a chair to support her trembling frame ; and overwhelmed with mortifying sensations , sunk into it , and hid her face in her robe . 
Hippolitus threw himself at her feet , and seizing her hand , pressed it to his lips in expressive silence . 
-- `` If your peace , Sir , depends upon a knowledge of my esteem , '' said Julia , in a tremulous voice , `` that peace is already secure . 
`` Be sensible , however , of the delicacy of my situation , '' continued she , rising , `` and suffer me to withdraw . '' 
Saying this she quitted the closet , leaving Hippolitus overcome with this sweet confirmation of his wishes , and Ferdinand not yet recovered from the painful surprize which the discovery of Julia had excited . 
He was deeply sensible of the confusion he had occasioned her , and knew that apologies would not restore the composure he had so cruelly yet unwarily disturbed . 
Julia , though she had been extremely mortified by the circumstances attendant on the discovery of her sentiments to Hippolitus , experienced , after the first shock had subsided , an emotion more pleasing that painful . 
The late conversation had painted in strong colours the attachment of her lover . 
His diffidence -- his slowness to perceive the effect of his merit -- his succeeding rapture , when conviction was at length forced upon his mind ; and his conduct upon discovering Julia , proved to her at once the delicacy and the strength of his passion , and she yielded her heart to sensations of pure and unmixed delight . 
She was roused from this state of visionary happiness , by a summons from the marquis to attend him in the library . 
A circumstance so unusual surprized her , and she obeyed with trembling curiosity . 
She found him pacing the room in deep thought , and she had shut the door before he perceived her . 
The authoritative severity in his countenance alarmed her , and prepared her for a subject of importance . 
He seated himself by her , and continued a moment silent . 
At length , steadily observing her , `` I sent for you , my child , '' said he , `` to declare the honour which awaits you . 
This speech fell like the dart of death upon the heart of Julia . 
She sat motionless -- stupified and deprived of the power of utterance . 
The marquis observed her consternation ; and mistaking its cause , `` I acknowledge , '' said he , `` that there is somewhat abrupt in this affair ; but the joy occasioned by a distinction so unmerited on your part , ought to overcome the little feminine weakness you might otherwise indulge . 
These words roused Julia from her state of horrid stupefaction . 
Sir , '' said she , throwing herself at his feet , `` forbear to enforce authority upon a point where to obey you would be worse than death ; if , indeed , to obey you were possible . '' 
`` Pardon me , my lord , '' she replied , `` my distress is , alas ! 
`` Yet hear me , my lord , '' said Julia , tears swelling in her eyes , `` and pity the sufferings of a child , who never till this moment has dared to dispute your commands . '' 
Saying this , he burst away , and Julia , who had hung weeping upon his knees , fell prostrate upon the floor . 
The violence of the fall completed the effect of her distress , and she fainted . 
In this state she remained a considerable time . 
When she recovered her senses , the recollection of her calamity burst upon her mind with a force that almost again overwhelmed her . 
She at length raised herself from the ground , and moved towards her own apartment , but had scarcely reached the great gallery , when Hippolitus entered it . 
Her trembling limbs would no longer support her ; -- she caught at a bannister to save herself ; and Hippolitus , with all his speed , was scarcely in time to prevent her falling . 
The pale distress exhibited in her countenance terrified him , and he anxiously enquired concerning it . 
She could answer him only with her tears , which she found it impossible to suppress ; and gently disengaging herself , tottered to her closet . 
Hippolitus followed her to the door , but desisted from further importunity . 
He pressed her hand to his lips in tender silence , and withdrew surprized and alarmed . 
Julia , resigning herself to despair , indulged in solitude the excess of her grief . 
A calamity , so dreadful as the present , had never before presented itself to her imagination . 
The union proposed would have been hateful to her , even if she had no prior attachment ; what then must have been her distress , when she had given her heart to him who deserved all her admiration , and returned all her affection . 
At the late festival the duke had seen Julia ; and her beauty made so strong an impression upon him , that he had been induced now to solicit her hand . 
Julia remained for the rest of the day shut up in her closet , where the tender efforts of Madame and Emilia were exerted to soften her distress . 
He sat for a long time silent and dejected ; at length , starting from his melancholy reverie , he bad Julia good night , and returned to Hippolitus , who was waiting for him with anxious impatience in the north hall . 
Julia , at length , retired to her chamber , but the sorrow which occupied her mind , with-held the blessings of sleep . 
Distracted and restless she arose , and gently opened the window of her apartment . 
The scene insensibly tranquillized her spirits . 
A tender and pleasing melancholy diffused itself over her mind ; and as she mused , she heard the dashing of distant oars . 
In the strain Julia recollected the midnight hymn to the virgin , and holy enthusiasm filled her heart . 
A sigh of extacy stole from her bosom . 
The divine melody she had heard calmed the tumult of her mind , and she sunk in sweet repose . 
She arose in the morning refreshed by light slumbers ; but the recollection of her sorrows soon returned with new force , and sickening faintness overcame her . 
In this situation she received a message from the marquis to attend him instantly . 
She obeyed , and he bade her prepare to receive the duke , who that morning purposed to visit the castle . 
He commanded her to attire herself richly , and to welcome him with smiles . 
Julia submitted in silence . 
She saw the marquis was inflexibly resolved , and she withdrew to indulge the anguish of her heart , and prepare for this detested interview . 
The heart of Julia sunk at the sound , and she threw herself on a sopha overwhelmed with bitter sensations . 
Here she was soon disturbed by a message from the marquis . 
She arose , and tenderly embracing Emilia , their tears for some moments flowed together . 
At length summoning all her fortitude , she descended to the hall , where she was met by the marquis . 
He led her to the saloon in which the duke sat , with whom having conversed a short time , he withdrew . 
The emotion of Julia at this instant was beyond any thing she had before suffered ; but by a sudden and strange exertion of fortitude , which the force of desperate calamity sometimes affords us , but which inferior sorrow toils after in vain , she recovered her composure , and resumed her natural dignity . 
For a moment she wondered at herself , and she formed the dangerous resolution of throwing herself upon the generosity of the duke , by acknowledging her reluctance to the engagement , and soliciting him to withdraw his suit . 
The duke approached her with an air of proud condescension ; and taking her hand , placed himself beside her . 
Having paid some formal and general compliments to her beauty , he proceeded to profess himself her admirer . 
She listened for some time to his professions , and when he appeared willing to hear her , she addressed him -- `` I am justly sensible , my lord , of the distinction you offer me , and must lament that respectful gratitude is the only sentiment I can return . 
She paused -- the duke continued silent . 
`` Pardon me , my lord , '' said Julia , blushing , `` suffer me to '' -- `` I am not easily deceived , Madam , '' interrupted the duke , -- `` your conduct can be attributed only to the influence of a prior attachment ; and though for so young a lady , such a circumstance is somewhat extraordinary , I have certainly no right to arraign your choice . 
Julia now experienced a new distress ; she dreaded the resentment of the marquis , when he should be informed of her conversation with the duke , of whose character she now judged too justly not to repent the confidence she had reposed in him . 
The duke , on quitting Julia , went to the marquis , with whom he remained in conversation some hours . 
Julia passed the remainder of the day in her closet with Emilia . 
Night returned , but brought her no peace . 
She sat long after the departure of Emilia ; and to beguile recollection , she selected a favourite author , endeavouring to revive those sensations his page had once excited . 
Julia could speak but with her tears . 
A variety of strong and contending emotions struggled at her breast , and suppressed the power of utterance . 
`` Ah , cease , '' said Julia , `` to dwell upon a character of whose worth I am fully sensible . 
She paused in silent hesitation . 
A sense of delicacy made her hesitate upon the decision which her heart so warmly prompted . 
If she fled with Hippolitus , she would avoid one evil , and encounter another . 
She would escape the dreadful destiny awaiting her , but must , perhaps , sully the purity of that reputation , which was dearer to her than existence . 
In a mind like her 's , exquisitely susceptible of the pride of honour , this fear was able to counteract every other consideration , and to keep her intentions in a state of painful suspence . 
She sighed deeply , and continued silent . 
Hippolitus was alarmed by the calm distress which her countenance exhibited . 
Julia , '' said he , `` relieve me from this dreadful suspense ! 
She looked mournfully upon him -- her lips moved , but no sounds were uttered . 
As he repeated his question , she waved her hand , and sunk back in her chair . 
She had not fainted , but continued some time in a state of stupor not less alarming . 
The importance of the present question , operating upon her mind , already harassed by distress , had produced a temporary suspension of reason . 
Hippolitus hung over her in an agony not be described , and Ferdinand vainly repeated her name . 
At length , uttering a deep sigh , she raised herself , and like one awakened from a dream , gazed around her . 
`` Ferdinand , '' said Julia , emphatically , `` how shall I express the gratitude your kindness has excited ? '' 
Repose is necessary for you , '' addressing Julia , `` and I will not suffer a selfish consideration any longer to with-hold you from it . 
Julia having consented to receive Hippolitus and Ferdinand , they quitted the closet . 
They then separated , and retired to their apartments , somewhat alarmed by this circumstance , which induced them to suspect that their visit to Julia had been observed . 
Julia passed the night in broken slumbers , and anxious consideration . 
On her present decision , hung the crisis of her fate . 
Her consciousness of the influence of Hippolitus over her heart , made her fear to indulge its predilection , by trusting to her own opinion of its fidelity . 
She shrunk from the disgraceful idea of an elopement , yet she saw no means of avoiding this , but by rushing upon the fate so dreadful to her imagination . 
Julia , who had known no interval of rest since they last left her , received them with much agitation . 
The vivid glow of health had fled her cheek , and was succeeded by a languid delicacy , less beautiful , but more interesting . 
To the eager enquiries of Hippolitus , she returned no answer , but faintly smiling through her tears , presented him her hand , and covered her face with her robe . 
`` If the present concession does not sink me in your esteem , '' said Julia , in a low tone , `` this hand is your 's . '' 
From this moment , let me banish every vestige of sorrow -- let me dry those tears , '' gently pressing her cheek with his lips , `` never to spring again . '' 
-- The gratitude and joy which Ferdinand expressed upon this occasion , united with the tenderness of Hippolitus , to soothe the agitated spirits of Julia , and she gradually recovered her complacency . 
It was settled , that if the keys could be procured , Ferdinand and Hippolitus should meet Julia in the closet . 
That they should convey her to the sea shore , from whence a boat , which was to be kept in waiting , would carry them to the opposite coast of Calabria , where the marriage might be solemnized without danger of interruption . 
Having thus arranged their plan of operation , they separated till the following night , which was to decide the fate of Hippolitus and Julia . 
Julia , whose mind was soothed by the fraternal kindness of Ferdinand , and the tender assurances of Hippolitus , now experienced an interval of repose . 
At the return of day she awoke refreshed , and tolerably composed . 
She selected the few clothes which were necessary , and prepared them for her journey . 
A sentiment of generosity justified her in the reserve she preserved to Emilia and Madame de Menon , whose faithfulness and attachment she could not doubt , but whom she disdained to involve in the disgrace that must fall upon them , should their knowledge of her flight be discovered . 
The marchioness had the direction of the whole , and the alacrity with which she acquitted herself , testified how much she was pleased with the alliance , and created a suspicion that it had not been concerted without some exertion of her influence . 
Thus was Julia designed the joint victim of ambition , and illicit love . 
The composure of Julia declined with the day , whose hours had crept heavily along . 
As the night drew on , her anxiety for the success of Ferdinand 's negociation with Robert , increased to a painful degree . 
A variety of new emotions pressed at her heart , and subdued her spirits . 
When she bade Emilia good night , she thought she beheld her for the last time . 
The ideas of the distance which would separate them , of the dangers she was going to encounter , with a train of wild and fearful anticipations , crowded upon her mind , tears sprang in her eyes , and it was with difficulty she avoided betraying her emotions . 
Of Madame too , her heart took a tender farewell . 
At length she heard the marquis retire to his apartment , and the doors belonging to the several chambers of the guests successively close . 
She marked with trembling attention the gradual change from bustle to quiet , till all was still . 
She now held herself in readiness to depart , at the moment in which Ferdinand and Hippolitus , for whose steps in the gallery she eagerly listened , should appear . 
Julia felt it thrill upon her heart . 
`` I hear you , '' sighed she `` for the last time . '' 
She continued to listen , but no sound met her ear . 
For a considerable time she sat in a state of anxious expectation not to be described . 
The clock chimed the successive quarters , and her fear rose to each additional sound . 
At length she heard it strike one . 
Hollow was that sound , and dreadful to her hopes , for neither Hippolitus nor Ferdinand appeared . 
She grew faint with fear and disappointment . 
Her mind , which for two hours had been kept upon the stretch of expectation , now resigned itself to despair . 
She gently opened the door of her closet , and looked upon the gallery , but all was lonely and silent . 
Overwhelmed with bitter reflections , she threw herself upon the sopha in the first distraction of despair . 
Suddenly she thought she heard a noise in the gallery ; and as she started from her posture to listen to the sound , the door of her closet was gently opened by Ferdinand . 
Julia , almost fainting , gave her hand to Ferdinand ; and Hippolitus , after some short expression of his thankfulness , followed . 
Julia scarcely felt the ground she trod on , and Ferdinand flew to unlock a door that obstructed their way . 
Trembling and exhausted , Julia gave herself up for lost . 
As she hung upon Ferdinand , Hippolitus vainly endeavoured to soothe her -- the noise suddenly ceased . 
`` Be quick , '' said Julia , `` or we are lost . 
Julia shrieked , and fainted . 
Julia , on recovering her senses , found herself in a small room , of which she had no remembrance , with her maid weeping over her . 
Recollection , when it returned , brought to her mind an energy of grief , which exceeded even all former conceptions of suffering . 
Yet her misery was heightened by the intelligence which she now received . 
She learned that Hippolitus had been borne away lifeless by his people , that Ferdinand was confined in a dungeon by order of the marquis , and that herself was a prisoner in a remote room , from which , on the day after the morrow , she was to be removed to the chapel of the castle , and there sacrificed to the ambition of her father , and the absurd love of the duke de Luovo . 
This accumulation of evil subdued each power of resistance , and reduced Julia to a state little short of distraction . 
No person was allowed to approach her but her maid , and the servant who brought her food . 
Emilia , who , though shocked by Julia 's apparent want of confidence , severely symphathized in her distress , solicited to see her ; but the pain of denial was so sharply aggravated by rebuke , that she dared not again to urge the request . 
he mourned the fate of Hippolitus , and the sufferings of Julia . 
He could attribute the failure of their scheme only to the treachery of Robert , who had , however , met the wishes of Ferdinand , with strong apparent sincerity , and generous interest in the cause of Julia . 
Still true to passion , and inaccessible to reason , she poured upon the defenceless Julia her anger for that calamity of which she herself was the unwilling cause . 
By a dextrous adaptation of her powers , she had worked upon the passions of the marquis , so as to render him relentless in the pursuit of ambitious purposes , and insatiable in revenging his disappointment . 
But the effects of her artifices exceeded her intention in exerting them ; and when she meant only to sacrifice a rival to her love , she found she had given up its object to revenge . 
The nuptial morn , so justly dreaded by Julia , and so impatiently awaited by the marquis , now arrived . 
The marquis now withdrew to lead Julia to the altar , and Emilia was ordered to attend at the door of the chapel , in which the priest and a numerous company were already assembled . 
The marquis , on entering the prison of Julia , found it empty ! 
Of the servants of the castle , who were immediately summoned , he enquired concerning her escape , with a mixture of fury and sorrow , which left them no opportunity for reply . 
They had , however , no information to give , but that her woman had not appeared during the whole morning . 
While the marquis was reading this letter , the marchioness , who supposed the delay occasioned by some opposition from Julia , flew to the apartment . 
By her orders all the habitable parts of the castle were explored , and she herself assisted in the search . 
When these exertions had somewhat quieted his mind , he began to consider by what means Julia could have effected her escape . 
She had been confined in a small room in a remote part of the castle , to which no person had been admitted but her own woman , and Robert , the confidential servant of the marquis . 
Without them it was impossible she could have escaped ; the windows of the apartment being barred and grated , and opening into an inner court , at a prodigious height from the ground . 
Besides , who could she depend upon for protection -- or whither could she intend to fly for concealment ? 
-- The associates of her former elopement were utterly unable to assist her even with advice . 
Ferdinand , himself a prisoner , had been deprived of any means of intercourse with her , and Hippolitus had been carried lifeless on board a vessel which had immediately sailed for Italy . 
He persisted in a simple and uniform declaration of his innocence ; but as the marquis believed it impossible that Julia could have escaped without his knowledge , he was ordered into imprisonment till he should confess the fact . 
The pride of the duke was severely wounded by this elopement , which proved the excess of Julia 's aversion , and compleated the disgraceful circumstances of his rejection . 
The marquis had carefully concealed from him her prior attempt at elopement , and her consequent confinement ; but the truth now burst from disguise , and stood revealed with bitter aggravation . 
The disputants were at length reconciled ; it was agreed to pursue Julia with united , and indefatigable search ; and that whenever she should be found , the nuptials should be solemnized without further delay . 
Madame de Menon , who loved Julia with maternal affection , was an interested observer of all that passed at the castle . 
The news of Julia 's elopement at length reached the ears of Ferdinand , whose joy at this event was equalled only by his surprize . 
He lost , for a moment , the sense of his own situation , and thought only of the escape of Julia . 
But his sorrow soon returned with accumulated force when he recollected that Julia might then perhaps want that assistance , which his confinement alone could prevent his affording her . 
On the night so fatal to the hopes of Hippolitus and Julia , when the tumult was subsided , and all was still , a light was observed by a servant as he passed by the window of the great stair-case in the way to his chamber , to glimmer through the casement before noticed in the southern buildings . 
They doubted not , that this was the figure formerly seen by the lady Julia . 
Every enquiry after Julia had hitherto proved fruitless , and the imperious nature of the marquis , heightened by the present vexation , became intolerably oppressive to all around him . 
As the hope of recovering Julia declined , his opinion that Emilia had assisted her to escape strengthened , and he inflicted upon her the severity of his unjust suspicions . 
Her anxiety concerning Julia daily encreased , and was heightened into the most terrifying apprehensions for her safety . 
Her heart beat with fear and expectation , for his haste made her suspect he brought intelligence of Julia , and she could scarcely refrain from breaking through the command of the marquis , and rushing into the hall to learn something of his errand . 
She was right in her conjecture ; the person she had seen was a spy of the marquis 's , and came to inform him that the lady Julia was at that time concealed in a cottage of the forest of Marentino . 
He learned also , that she was accompanied by a young cavalier , which circumstance surprized him exceedingly , for he knew of no person except the count de Vereza with whom she could have entrusted herself , and the count had fallen by his sword ! 
He immediately ordered a party of his people to accompany the messenger to the forest of Marentino , and to suffer neither Julia nor the cavalier to escape them on pain of death . 
They were conversing with earnestness , and the duke , hoping to obtain farther intelligence of Julia , endeavoured to listen to their discourse . 
They were praising the beauty of a lady whom the duke did not doubt to be Julia , and the woman spoke much in praise of the cavalier . 
`` He has a noble heart , '' said she , `` and I am sure by his look belongs to some great family . '' 
`` Nay , '' replied her companion , `` the lady is as good as he . 
He could gain no intelligence of Julia , and was perplexed which way to chuse ; but determined at length to pursue the road he was then in , and accordingly again set forward . 
On one of them he distinguished the habiliments of a woman ; and in her air he thought he discovered that of Julia . 
It instantly occurred to him that they belonged to Julia , and her companion . 
The passions of the duke were roused , and he became certain that it was Julia of whom they had spoken . 
The duke , however , boldly and passionately accused him of having plundered and secreted a lady and cavalier , his friends , at the same time describing Julia , for whose liberation he offered large rewards . 
With thoughts agitated in fierce and agonizing conflict , he pursued his journey ; and having lost all trace of Julia , sought only for an habitation which might shelter him from the night , and afford necessary refreshment for himself and his people . 
In the lady the duke saw the very air and shape of Julia , and his heart bounded at the sight . 
He considered that , although these were the fugitives he had pursued over the plains , they might not be the same who had been secreted in the cottage , and it was therefore possible that Julia might have been the person whom they had for some time followed from thence . 
To pursue Julia , when no traces of her flight remained , was absurd ; and he was therefore compelled to return to the marquis , as ignorant and more hopeless than he had left him . 
They returned with intelligence , that neither Julia , the duke , nor any of his people were there . 
He apprehended that his son , if liberated , would quickly discover the retreat of Julia , and by his advice and assistance , confirm her in disobedience . 
Julia too , his beloved sister -- unprotected -- unfriended -- might , even at the moment he lamented her , be sinking under sufferings dreadful to humanity . 
Among the rest , he did not omit to mention the light and the figure , which had been seen to issue from the south tower on the night of Julia 's intended elopement ; a circumstance which he embellished with innumerable aggravations of fear and wonder . 
Regard for Emilia and Julia had alone for some time detained her at the castle ; but this was now succeeded by the influence of considerations too powerful to be resisted . 
As her income was small , it was her plan to retire to her native place , which was situated in a distant part of the island , and there take up her residence in a convent . 
When her last friend was gone , Emilia wandered through the forsaken apartments , where she had been accustomed to converse with Julia , and to receive consolation and sympathy from her dear instructress , with a kind of anguish known only to those who have experienced a similar situation . 
Madame pursued her journey with a heavy heart . 
Separated from the objects of her fondest affections , and from the scenes and occupations for which long habit had formed claims upon her heart , she seemed without interest and without motive for exertion . 
The world appeared a wide and gloomy desert , where no heart welcomed her with kindness -- no countenance brightened into smiles at her approach . 
It was many years since she quitted Calini -- and in the interval , death had swept away the few friends she left there . 
The future presented a melancholy scene ; but she had the retrospect of years spent in honourable endeavour and strict integrity , to cheer her heart and encourage her hopes . 
But her utmost endeavours were unable to repress the anxiety with which the uncertain fate of Julia overwhelmed her . 
Wild and terrific images arose to her imagination . 
Fancy drew the scene ; -- she deepened the shades ; and the terrific aspect of the objects she presented was heighted by the obscurity which involved them . 
Towards the close of day Madame arrived at a small village situated among the mountains , where she purposed to pass the night . 
The evening was remarkably fine , and the grotesque beauty of the surrounding scenery invited her to walk . 
She followed the windings of a stream , which was lost at some distance among luxuriant groves of chesnut . 
The rich colouring of evening glowed through the dark foliage , which spreading a pensive gloom around , offered a scene congenial to the present temper of her mind , and she entered the shades . 
Her thoughts , affected by the surrounding objects , gradually sunk into a pleasing and complacent melancholy , and she was insensibly led on . 
She still followed the course of the stream to where the deep shades retired , and the scene again opening to day , yielded to her a view so various and sublime , that she paused in thrilling and delightful wonder . 
A group of wild and grotesque rocks rose in a semicircular form , and their fantastic shapes exhibited Nature in her most sublime and striking attitudes . 
Here her vast magnificence elevated the mind of the beholder with high enthusiasm . 
Fancy caught the thrilling sensation , and at her touch the towering steeps became shaded with unreal glooms ; the caves more darkly frowned -- the projecting cliffs assumed a more terrific aspect , and the wild overhanging shrubs waved to the gale in deeper murmurs . 
The scene inspired Madame with reverential awe , and her thoughts involuntarily rose `` from Nature up to Nature 's God . '' 
While she listened to their distant murmur , a voice of liquid and melodious sweetness arose from among the rocks ; it sung an air , whose melancholy expression awakened all her attention , and captivated her heart . 
Language can not paint the sensation of Madame , when , in the disguise of a peasant girl , she distinguished the features of Julia , whose eyes lighted up with sudden recollection , and who sunk into her arms overcome with joy . 
When their first emotions were subsided , and Julia had received answers to her enquiries concerning Ferdinand and Emilia , she led Madame to the place of her concealment . 
The deep solitude of the scene dissipated at once Madame 's wonder that Julia had so long remained undiscovered , and excited surprize how she had been able to explore a spot thus deeply sequestered ; but Madame observed with extreme concern , that the countenance of Julia no longer wore the smile of health and gaiety . 
Her fine features had received the impressions not only of melancholy , but of grief . 
Madame sighed as she gazed , and read too plainly the cause of the change . 
Julia understood that sigh , and answered it with her tears . 
She pressed the hand of Madame in mournful silence to her lips , and her cheeks were suffused with a crimson glow . 
At length , recovering herself , `` I have much , my dear Madame , to tell , '' said she , `` and much to explain , ` ere you will admit me again to that esteem of which I was once so justly proud . 
Julia paused a moment , as if to stifle her rising emotion , and then commenced her narrative . 
Her voice trembled , and she paused . 
After a few moments she resumed her tale . 
Here Julia closed her narration , to which Madame had listened with a mixture of surprize and pity , which her eyes sufficiently discovered . 
The last circumstance of the narrative seriously alarmed her . 
She acquainted Julia with the pursuit which the duke had undertaken ; and she did not hesitate to believe it a party of his people whom Julia had described . 
Madame , therefore , earnestly advised her to quit her present situation , and to accompany her in disguise to the monastery of St. Augustin , where she would find a secure retreat ; because , even if her place of refuge should be discovered , the superior authority of the church would protect her . 
Julia accepted the proposal with much joy . 
As it was necessary that Madame should sleep at the village where she had left her servants and horses , it was agreed that at break of day she should return to the cottage , where Julia would await her . 
Madame took an affectionate leave of Julia , whose heart , in spite of reason , sunk when she saw her depart though but for the necessary interval of repose . 
Her servants , who were hired for the journey , were strangers to Julia , from them , therefore , she had nothing to apprehend . 
She reached the cottage before sun-rise , having left her people at some little distance . 
Her heart foreboded evil , when , on knocking at the door , no answer was returned . 
She knocked again , and still all was silent . 
Through the casement she could discover no object , amidst the grey obscurity of the dawn . 
She now opened the door , and to her inexpressible astonishment and distress , found the cottage empty . 
She proceeded to a small inner room , where lay a part of Julia 's apparel . 
The bed had no appearance of having been slept in , and every moment served to heighten and confirm her apprehensions . 
While she pursued the search , she suddenly heard the trampling of feet at the cottage door , and presently after some people entered . 
Her fears for Julia now yielded to those for her own safety , and she was undetermined whether to discover herself , or remain in her present situation , when she was relieved from her irresolution and distress by the appearance of Julia . 
On the return of the good woman , who had accompanied Madame to the village on the preceding night , Julia went to the cottage at Farrini . 
Her grateful heart would not suffer her to depart without taking leave of her faithful friends , thanking them for their kindness , and informing them of her future prospects . 
They had prevailed upon her to spend the few intervening hours at this cot , whence she had just risen to meet Madame . 
Julia surveyed the scene in silent complacency , but her eye quickly caught an object which changed with instantaneous shock the tone of her feelings . 
She observed a party of horsemen winding down the side of a hill behind them . 
Their uncommon speed alarmed her , and she pushed her horse into a gallop . 
Soon after the men suddenly appeared from behind a dark grove within a small distance of them ; and upon their nearer approach , Julia overcome with fatigue and fear , sunk breathless from her horse . 
She was saved from the ground by one of the pursuers , who caught her in his arms . 
Madame , with the rest of the party , were quickly overtaken ; and as soon as Julia revived , they were bound , and re-conducted to the hill from whence they had descended . 
Imagination only can paint the anguish of Julia 's mind , when she saw herself thus delivered up to the power of her enemy . 
Julia trembled as she entered ; and her emotion was heightened , when she perceived at some distance , through the long perspective of the trees , a large ruinous mansion . 
The gloom of the surrounding shades partly concealed it from her view ; but , as she drew near , each forlorn and decaying feature of the fabric was gradually disclosed , and struck upon her heart a horror such as she had never before experienced . 
He was expected to meet them in a few hours , and these were hours of indescribable torture to Julia and Madame . 
From the furious passions of the duke , exasperated by frequent disappointment , Julia had every evil to apprehend ; and the loneliness of the spot he had chosen , enabled him to perpetrate any designs , however violent . 
For the first time , she repented that she had left her father 's house . 
Madame wept over her , but comfort she had none to give . 
The day closed -- the duke did not appear , and the fate of Julia yet hung in perilous uncertainty . 
At length , from a window of the apartment she was in , she distinguished a glimmering of torches among the trees , and presently after the clattering of hoofs convinced her the duke was approaching . 
Her heart sunk at the sound ; and throwing her arms round Madame 's neck , she resigned herself to despair . 
She was soon roused by some men , who came to announce the arrival of their lord . 
Julia ran to the window ; and in a sort of court below , perceived a group of men dismounting from their horses . 
The torches shed a partial light ; and while she anxiously looked around for the person of the duke , the whole party entered the mansion . 
She listened to a confused uproar of voices , which sounded from the room beneath , and soon after it sunk into a low murmur , as if some matter of importance was in agitation . 
For some moments she sat in lingering terror , when she heard footsteps advancing towards the chamber , and a sudden gleam of torch-light flashed upon the walls . 
He stopped as he perceived Julia ; and turning to the men who stood without , `` Are these , '' said he , `` the fugitives you have taken ? '' 
These words struck the sudden light of truth and joy upon the heart of Julia , whom terror had before rendered almost lifeless ; and who had not perceived that the person entering was a stranger . 
Madame now stepped forward , and an explanation ensued , when it appeared that the stranger was the marquis Murani , the father of the fair fugitive whom the duke had before mistaken for Julia . 
The appearance and the evident flight of Julia , had deceived the banditti employed by this nobleman , into a belief that she was the object of their search , and had occasioned her this unnecessary distress . 
But the joy she now felt on finding herself thus unexpectedly at liberty , surpassed , if possible , her preceding terrors . 
The marquis made Madame and Julia all the reparation in his power , by offering immediately to reconduct them to the main road , and to guard them to some place of safety for the night . 
The same evening they repaired to the abbey , where Julia , once more relieved from the fear of pursuit , offered up a prayer of gratitude to Heaven , and endeavoured to calm her sorrows by devotion . 
She was received by the abbot with a sort of paternal affection , and by the nuns with officious kindness . 
Comforted by these circumstances , and by the tranquil appearance of every thing around her , she retired to rest , and passed the night in peaceful slumbers . 
In her present situation she found much novelty to amuse , and much serious matter to engage her mind . 
Entendered by distress , she easily yielded to the pensive manners of her companions , and to the serene uniformity of a monastic life . 
She loved to wander through the lonely cloisters , and high-arched aisles , whose long perspectives retired in simple grandeur , diffusing a holy calm around . 
She found much pleasure in the conversation of the nuns , many of whom were uncommonly amiable , and the dignified sweetness of whose manners formed a charm irresistibly attractive . 
The soft melancholy impressed upon their countenances , pourtrayed the situation of their minds , and excited in Julia a very interesting mixture of pity and esteem . 
The affectionate appellation of sister , and all that endearing tenderness which they so well know how to display , and of which they so well understand the effect , they bestowed on Julia , in the hope of winning her to become one of their order . 
Soothed by the presence of Madame , the assiduity of the nuns , and by the stillness and sanctity of the place , her mind gradually recovered a degree of complacency to which it had long been a stranger . 
But notwithstanding all her efforts , the idea of Hippolitus would at intervals return upon her memory with a force that at once subdued her fortitude , and sunk her in a temporary despair . 
Among the holy sisters , Julia distinguished one , the singular fervor of whose devotion , and the pensive air of whose countenance , softened by the languor of illness , attracted her curiosity , and excited a strong degree of pity . 
The nun , by a sort of sympathy , seemed particularly inclined towards Julia , which she discovered by innumerable acts of kindness , such as the heart can quickly understand and acknowledge , although description can never reach them . 
In conversation with her , Julia endeavoured , as far as delicacy would permit , to prompt an explanation of that more than common dejection which shaded those features , where beauty , touched by resignation and sublimed by religion , shone forth with mild and lambent lustre . 
The duke de Luovo , after having been detained for some weeks by the fever which his wounds had produced , and his irritated passions had much prolonged , arrived at the castle of Mazzini . 
When the marquis saw him return , and recollected the futility of those exertions , by which he had boastingly promised to recover Julia , the violence of his nature spurned the disguise of art , and burst forth in contemptuous impeachment of the valour and discernment of the duke , who soon retorted with equal fury . 
The duke , whose passion for Julia was heightened by the difficulty which opposed it , admitted such concessions as in other circumstances he would have rejected ; and thus each , conquered by the predominant passion of the moment , submitted to be the slave of his adversary . 
She had now the use of her old apartments , where , solitary and dejected , her hours moved heavily along , embittered by incessant anxiety for Julia , and by regret for the lost society of Madame . 
The marchioness , whose pleasures suffered a temporary suspense during the present confusion at the castle , exercised the ill-humoured caprice , which disappointment and lassitude inspired , upon her remaining subject . 
The search after Julia still continued , and was still unsuccessful . 
The astonishment of the marquis increased with his disappointments ; for where could Julia , ignorant of the country , and destitute of friends , have possibly found an asylum ? 
He swore with a terrible oath to revenge on her head , whenever she should be found , the trouble and vexation she now caused him . 
But he agreed with the duke to relinquish for a while the search ; till Julia , gaining confidence from the observation of this circumstance , might gradually suppose herself secure from molestation , and thus be induced to emerge by degrees from concealment . 
Meanwhile Julia , sheltered in the obscure recesses of St. Augustin , endeavoured to attain a degree of that tranquillity which so strikingly characterized the scenes around her . 
As Julia mused through the walks , and surveyed this vast monument of barbarous superstition , it brought to her recollection an ode which she often repeated with melancholy pleasure , as the composition of Hippolitus . 
She wept to the memory of times past , and there was a romantic sadness in her feelings , luxurious and indefinable . 
Madame behaved to Julia with the tenderest attention , and endeavoured to withdraw her thoughts from their mournful subject , by promoting that taste for literature and music , which was so suitable to the powers of her mind . 
Her favourite nun , for whom her love and esteem daily encreased , seemed declining under the pressure of a secret grief . 
Julia was deeply affected with her situation , and though she was not empowered to administer consolation to her sorrows , she endeavoured to mitigate the sufferings of illness . 
She nursed her with unremitting care , and seemed to seize with avidity the temporary opportunity of escaping from herself . 
Julia watched every turn of her disorder with the utmost solicitude , and her care was at length rewarded by the amendment of Cornelia . 
At length Julia ventured to solicit what she had so long and so earnestly wished for , and Cornelia unfolded the history of her sorrows . 
said Julia , in a tremulous accent , `` Hippolitus , count de Vereza ! '' 
Julia was speechless ; tears , however , came to her relief . 
Julia , after some time revived , when Cornelia tenderly approaching her , `` Do I then embrace my sister ! '' 
Julia answered with her sighs , and their tears flowed in mournful sympathy together . 
Cornelia ceased , and Julia , who had listened to the narrative in deep attention , at once admired , loved , and pitied her . 
As the sister of Hippolitus , her heart expanded towards her , and it was now inviolably attached by the fine ties of sympathetic sorrow . 
Julia loved to indulge in the mournful pleasure of conversing of Hippolitus , and when thus engaged , the hours crept unheeded by . 
A thousand questions she repeated concerning him , but to those most interesting to her , she received no consolatory answer . 
Julia accustomed herself to walk in the fine evenings under the shade of the high trees that environed the abbey . 
The dewy coolness of the air refreshed her . 
The innumerable roseate tints which the parting sun-beams reflected on the rocks above , and the fine vermil glow diffused over the romantic scene beneath , softly fading from the eye , as the night-shades fell , excited sensations of a sweet and tranquil nature , and soothed her into a temporary forgetfulness of her sorrows . 
The deep solitude of the place subdued her apprehension , and one evening she ventured with Madame de Menon to lengthen her walk . 
As Julia gave a last look to the scene , she perceived two men leaning upon a part of the ruin at some distance , in earnest conversation . 
As they spoke , their looks were so attentively bent on her , that she could have no doubt she was the subject of their discourse . 
Alarmed at this circumstance , Madame and Julia immediately retreated towards the abbey . 
This incident occasioned Julia much alarm . 
She could not but believe that the men whom she had seen were spies of the marquis ; -- if so , her asylum was discovered , and she had every thing to apprehend . 
Madame now judged it necessary to the safety of Julia , that the Abate should be informed of her story , and of the sanctuary she had sought in his monastery , and also that he should be solicited to protect her from parental tyranny . 
Julia approved of this communication , though she trembled for the event ; and requested Madame to plead her cause with the Abate . 
On the following morning , therefore , Madame solicited a private audience of the Abate ; she obtained permission to see him , and Julia in trembling anxiety , watched her to the door of his apartment . 
The conference was long , and every moment seemed an hour to Julia , who , in fearful expectation , awaited with Cornelia the sentence which would decide her destiny . 
Meanwhile Madame developed to the Abate the distressful story of Julia . 
She praised her virtues , commended her accomplishments , and deplored her situation . 
She described the characters of the marquis and the duke , and concluded with pathetically representing , that Julia had sought in this monastery , a last asylum from injustice and misery , and with entreating that the Abate would grant her his pity and protection . 
When Madame ceased to speak , a pause of profound silence ensued , and she sat in anxious expectation . 
She endeavoured to anticipate in his countenance the answer preparing , but she derived no comfort from thence . 
At length raising his head , and awakening from his deep reverie , he told her that her request required deliberation , and that the protection she solicited for Julia , might involve him in serious consequences , since from a character so determined as the marquis 's , much violence might reasonably be expected . 
She made another effort to interest the Abate in favour of Julia , but he preserved his stern inflexibility , and repeating that he would deliberate upon the matter , and acquaint her with the result he arose with great solemnity , and quitted the room . 
She now half repented of the confidence she had reposed in him , and of the pity she had solicited , since he discovered a mind incapable of understanding the first , and a temper inaccessible to the influence of the latter . 
With an heavy heart she returned to Julia , who read in her countenance , at the moment she entered the room , news of no happy import . 
When Madame related the particulars of the conference , Julia presaged from it only misery , and giving herself up for lost -- she burst into tears . 
She severely deplored the confidence she had been induced to yield ; for she now saw herself in the power of a man , stern and unfeeling in his nature ; and from whom , if he thought it fit to betray her , she had no means of escaping . 
But she concealed the anguish of her heart ; and to console Madame , affected to hope where she could only despair . 
Julia too well understood this silence . 
At this intelligence the spirits of Julia forsook her ; she trembled , grew pale , and stood fixed in mute despair . 
She understood too justly the character of the Superior , to doubt that he would hesitate in delivering Julia to the hands of the marquis . 
On this moment , therefore , turned the crisis of her fate ! 
-- this moment she might escape -- the next she was a prisoner . 
She therefore advised Julia to seize the instant , and fly from the monastery before the conference was concluded , when the gates would most probably be closed upon her , assuring her , at the same time , she would accompany her in flight . 
The generous conduct of Madame called tears of gratitude into the eyes of Julia , who now awoke from the state of stupefaction which distress had caused . 
But before she could thank her faithful friend , a nun entered the room with a summons for Madame to attend the abate immediately . 
Madame advised Julia to escape while she detained the Abate in conversation , as it was not probable that he had yet issued orders for her detention . 
Leaving her to this attempt , with an assurance of following her from the abbey as soon as possible , Madame obeyed the summons . 
The coolness of her fortitude forsook her as she approached the Abate 's apartment , and she became less certain as to the occasion of this summons . 
The stern authority of his look startled her . 
Madame distinguished the hand writing of the marquis , and the words of the Superior threw her into the utmost astonishment . 
She took the letter . 
Having discovered the retreat of Julia , and believing the monastery afforded her a willing sanctuary from his pursuit , he accused the Abate of encouraging his child in open rebellion to his will . 
He loaded him and his sacred order with opprobrium , and threatened , if she was not immediately resigned to the emissaries in waiting , he would in person lead on a force which should compel the church to yield to the superior authority of the father . 
The spirit of the Abate was roused by this menace ; and Julia obtained from his pride , that protection which neither his principle nor his humanity would have granted . 
The lady Julia is safe . 
I will protect her from this proud invader of our rights , and teach him at least to venerate the power he can not conquer . 
These words struck sudden joy upon the heart of Madame de Menon , but she instantly recollected , that ere this time Julia had quitted the abbey , and thus the very precaution which was meant to ensure her safety , had probably precipitated her into the hand of her enemy . 
This thought changed her joy to anguish ; and she was hurrying from the apartment in a sort of wild hope , that Julia might not yet be gone , when the stern voice of the Abate arrested her . 
Madame returned in an agony of fear , lest one moment of delay might prove fatal to Julia , if haply she had not yet quitted the monastery . 
She was conscious of her deficiency in apparent gratitude , and of the strange appearance of her abrupt departure from the Abate , for which it was impossible to apologize , without betraying the secret , which would kindle all his resentment . 
Yet some atonement his present anger demanded , and these circumstances caused her a very painful embarassment . 
She formed a hasty excuse ; and expressing her sense of his goodness , again attempted to retire , when the Abate frowning in deep resentment , his features inflamed with pride , arose from his seat . 
-- Since the lady Julia is insensible of my condescension , she is unworthy of my protection , and I will resign her to the tyrant who demands her . '' 
To this speech , in which the offended pride of the Abate overcoming all sense of justice , accused and threatened to punish Julia for the fault of her friend , Madame listened in dreadful impatience . 
Every word that detained her struck torture to her heart , but the concluding sentence occasioned new terror , and she started at its purpose . 
She fell at the feet of the Abate in an agony of grief . 
`` Holy father , '' said she , `` punish not Julia for the offence which I only have committed ; her heart will bless her generous protector , and for myself , suffer me to assure you that I am fully sensible of your goodness . '' 
`` If this is true , '' said the Abate , `` arise , and bid the lady Julia attend me . '' 
This command increased the confusion of Madame , who had no doubt that her detention had proved fatal to Julia . 
At length she was suffered to depart , and to her infinite joy found Julia in her own room . 
Her intention of escaping had yielded immediately after the departure of Madame , to the fear of being discovered by the marquis 's people . 
This was a dreadful circumstance to Julia , who perceived it was utterly impossible to quit the monastery , without rushing upon certain destruction . 
She was lamenting her destiny , when Madame recited the particulars of the late interview , and delivered the summons of the Abate . 
They had now to dread the effect of that tender anxiety , which had excited his resentment ; and Julia suddenly elated to joy by his first determination , was as suddenly sunk to despair by his last . 
She trembled with apprehension of the coming interview , though each moment of delay , which her fear solicited , would by heightening the resentment of the Abate , only increase the danger she dreaded . 
At length by a strong effort she reanimated her spirits , and went to the Abate 's closet to receive her sentence . 
He was seated in his chair , and his frowning aspect chilled her heart . 
The father paused -- his eyes sternly fixed on Julia , who pale and trembling , could scarcely support herself , and who had no power to reply . 
At these dreadful words , Julia bursting into tears , sunk at the feet of the Abate , to whom she raised her eyes in supplicating expression , but was unable to speak . 
He suffered her to remain in this posture . 
These false aspersions roused in Julia the spirit of indignant virtue ; she arose from her knees with an air of dignity , that struck even the Abate . 
But this reproof of Julia touched him where he was most conscious of defect ; and the temporary triumph which he imagined it afforded her , kindled his resentment into flame . 
-- She saw in his countenance the deep workings of his mind -- she revolved the fate preparing for her , and stood in trembling anxiety to receive her sentence . 
The Abate considered each aggravating circumstance of the marquis 's menace , and each sentence of Julia 's speech ; and his mind experienced , that vice is not only inconsistent with virtue , but with itself -- for to gratify his malignity , he now discovered that it would be necessary to sacrifice his pride -- since it would be impossible to punish the object of the first , without denying himself the gratification of the former . 
The spirit which lately animated Julia , had vanished with her words -- each moment of silence increased her apprehension ; the deep brooding of his thoughts confirmed her in the apprehension of evil , and with all the artless eloquence of sorrow , she endeavoured to soften him to pity . 
He listened to her pleadings in sullen stillness . 
But each instant now cooled the fervour of his resentment to her , and increased his desire of opposing the marquis . 
He therefore condescended to relieve Julia from her terrors , by assuring her of his protection ; but he did this in a manner so ungracious , as almost to destroy the gratitude which the promise demanded . 
She hastened with the joyful intelligence to Madame de Menon , who wept over her tears of thankfulness . 
Near a fortnight had elapsed without producing an appearance of hostility from the marquis , when one night , long after the hour of repose , Julia was awakened by the bell of the monastery . 
She knew it was not the hour customary for prayer , and she listened to the sounds , which rolled through the deep silence of the fabric , with strong surprize and terror . 
Presently she heard the doors of several cells creak on their hinges , and the sound of quick foot-steps in the passages -- and through the crevices of her door she distinguished passing lights . 
Her terror heightened ; it occurred to her that the marquis had surrounded the abbey with his people , in the design of forcing her from her retreat ; and she arose in haste , with an intention of going to the chamber of Madame de Menon , when she heard a gentle tap at the door . 
Her enquiry of who was there , was answered in the voice of Madame , and her fears were quickly dissipated , for she learned the bell was a summons to attend a dying nun , who was going to the high altar , there to receive extreme unction . 
She quitted the chamber with Madame . 
In her way to the church , the gleam of tapers on the walls , and the glimpse which her eye often caught of the friars in their long black habits , descending silently through the narrow winding passages , with the solemn toll of the bell , conspired to kindle imagination , and to impress her heart with sacred awe . 
But the church exhibited a scene of solemnity , such as she had never before witnessed . 
While she gazed , she heard a distant chanting rise through the aisles ; the sounds swelled in low murmurs on the ear , and drew nearer and nearer , till a sudden blaze of light issued from one of the portals , and the procession entered . 
The Abate now approached to perform the unction ; the veil of the dying nun was listed -- and Julia discovered her beloved Cornelia ! 
Her countenance was already impressed with the image of death , but her eyes brightened with a faint gleam of recollection , when they fixed upon Julia , who felt a cold thrill run through her frame , and leaned for support on Madame . 
Julia now for the first time distinguished the unhappy lover of Cornelia , on whose features was depictured the anguish of his heart , and who hung pale and silent over the bier . 
Madame hurried Julia , who was almost as lifeless as her departed friend , from the church . 
She dreaded , lest he should be corrupted by the marquis , to whom he was known , and thus be induced to use his interest with the Abate for the restoration of Julia . 
From the walls of the monastery , Julia now never ventured to stray . 
In the glooms of evening she sometimes stole into the cloisters , and often lingered at the grave of Cornelia , where she wept for Hippolitus , as well as for her friend . 
The clattering of hoofs was now distinctly heard ; and Julia , sinking with terror , distinguished the marquis heading the troop , which soon after separating into two divisions , surrounded the monastery . 
The terror of Julia made her utterly forgetful of the Padre 's promise , and she wished to fly for concealment to the deep caverns belonging to the monastery , which wound under the woods . 
Madame , whose penetration furnished her with a just knowledge of the Abate 's character , founded her security on his pride . 
She therefore dissuaded Julia from attempting to tamper with the honesty of a servant who had the keys of the vaults , and advised her to rely entirely on the effort of the Abate 's resentment towards the marquis . 
While Madame endeavoured to soothe her to composure , a message from the Abate , required her immediate attendance . 
She obeyed , and he bade her follow him to a room which was directly over the gates of the monastery . 
From thence she saw her father , accompanied by the duke de Luovo ; and as her heart died away at the sight , the marquis called furiously to the Abate to deliver her instantly into his hands , threatening , if she was detained , to force the gates of the monastery . 
At this threat the countenance of the Abate grew dark ; and leading Julia forcibly to the window , from which she had shrunk back , `` Impious . 
`` Look here , '' said he , pointing to Julia , `` and learn that you are in my power ; for if you dare to violate these sacred walls , I will proclaim aloud in the face of day , a secret which shall make your heart 's blood run cold ; a secret which involves your honour , nay , your very existence . 
Saying this , he turned his horse from the gates , and his people following him , quickly withdrew , leaving the Abate exulting in conquest , and Julia lost in astonishment and doubtful joy . 
When she recounted to Madame the particulars of the conference , she dwelt with emphasis on the threats of the Abate ; but Madame , though her amazement was heightened at every word , very well understood how the secret , whatever it was , had been obtained . 
The confessor of Vincent she had already observed in the monastery , and there was no doubt that he had disclosed whatever could be collected from the dying words of Vincent . 
She knew , also , that the secret would never be published , unless as a punishment for immediate violence , it being one of the first principles of monastic duty , to observe a religious secrecy upon all matters intrusted to them in confession . 
When the first tumult of Julia 's emotions subsided , the joy which the sudden departure of the marquis occasioned , yielded to apprehension . 
He had threatened to appeal to a higher power , who would compel the Abate to surrender her . 
She therefore requested an audience of the Abate ; and having represented the danger of her present situation , she intreated his permission to depart in quest of a safer retreat . 
The Abate , who well knew the marquis was wholly in his power , laughed at the repetition of his menaces , and denied her request , under pretence of his having now become responsible for her to the church . 
He bade her be comforted , and promised her his protection ; but his assurances were given in so distant and haughty a manner , that Julia left him with fears , rather increased than subdued . 
In crossing the hall , she observed a man hastily enter it from an opposite door . 
As she passed he raised his head , and Julia discovered -- her father ! 
He darted at her a look of vengeance ; but , before she had time even to think , as if suddenly recollecting himself , he covered his face , and rushed by her . 
Her trembling frame could scarcely support her to the apartment of Madame , where she sunk speechless upon a chair , and the horror of her look alone spoke the agony of her mind . 
When she was somewhat recovered , she related what she had seen , and her conversation with the Abate . 
But Madame was lost in equal perplexity with herself , when she attempted to account for the marquis 's appearance . 
To escape from the abbey was now impracticable , for the gates were constantly guarded ; and even was it possible to pass them , certain detection awaited Julia without from the marquis 's people , who were stationed in the woods . 
Thus encompassed with danger , she could only await in the monastery the issue of her destiny . 
While she was lamenting with Madame her unhappy state , she was summoned once more to attend the Abate . 
At this moment her spirits entirely forsook her ; the crisis of her fate seemed arrived ; for she did not doubt that the Abate intended to surrender her to the marquis , with whom she supposed he had negociated the terms of accommodation . 
It was some time before she could recover composure sufficient to obey the summons ; and when she did , every step that bore her towards the Abate 's room , increased her dread . 
She paused a moment at the door , ` ere she had courage to open it ; the idea of her father 's immediate resentment arose to her mind , and she was upon the point of retreating to her chamber , when a sudden step within , near the door , destroyed her hesitation , and she entered the closet . 
The marquis was not there , and her spirits revived . 
He paused , and she was suspended in wondering expectation of the coming sentence . 
Julia listened with a mixture of grief and astonishment . 
He ceased to speak ; but Julia , agitated with the most cruel distress , knew not what to reply . 
Julia quitted the closet in mute despair , and repaired to Madame , who could now scarcely offer her the humble benefit of consolation . 
After maturely deliberating upon the proposals , the pride of the Abate surmounted his avarice ; and he determined to prevail upon Julia effectually to destroy the hopes of the marquis , by consecrating her life to religion . 
Julia passed the night and the next day in a state of mental torture exceeding all description . 
From a marriage with the duke , whose late conduct had confirmed the odious idea which his character had formerly impressed , her heart recoiled in horror , and to be immured for life within the walls of a convent , was a fate little less dreadful . 
Yet such was the effect of that sacred love she bore the memory of Hippolitus , and such her aversion to the duke , that she soon resolved to adopt the veil . 
On the following evening she informed the Abate of her determination . 
He assured her of his approbation and protection , with a degree of kindness which he had never before manifested , and told her the ceremony should be performed on the second day from the present . 
Her emotion scarcely suffered her to hear his last words . 
Now that her fate was fixed beyond recall , she almost repented of her choice . 
Her fancy attached to it a horror not its own ; and that evil , which , when offered to her decision , she had accepted with little hesitation , she now paused upon in dubious regret ; so apt we are to imagine that the calamity most certain , is also the most intolerable ! 
Julia watched the departure of those moments which led to her fate with the calm fortitude of despair . 
She had no means of escaping from the coming evil , without exposing herself to a worse ; she surveyed it therefore with a steady eye , and no longer shrunk from its approach . 
On the morning preceding the day of her consecration , she was informed that a stranger enquired for her at the grate . 
Her mind had been so long accustomed to the vicissitudes of apprehension , that fear was the emotion which now occurred ; she suspected , yet scarcely knew why , that the marquis was below , and hesitated whether to descend . 
A little reflection determined her , and she went to the parlour -- where to her equal joy and surprize she beheld -- Ferdinand ! 
During the absence of the marquis from his castle , Ferdinand , who had been informed of the discovery of Julia , effected his escape from imprisonment , and had hastened to the monastery in the design of rescuing her . 
When he learned the conditions of the Abate 's protection , and that the following day was appointed for the consecration of Julia , he was shocked , and paused in deliberation . 
The night of the present day was the only time that remained for the attempt and execution of a plan of escape , which if it then failed of success , Julia would not only be condemned for life to the walls of a monastery , but would be subjected to whatever punishment the severity of the Abate , exasperated by the detection , should think fit to inflict . 
The nobly disinterested conduct of her brother , struck Julia with gratitude and admiration ; but despair of success , made her now hesitate whether she should accept his offer . 
She considered that his generosity would most probably involve him in destruction with herself ; and she paused in deep deliberation , when Ferdinand informed her of a circumstance which , till now , he had purposely concealed , and which at once dissolved every doubt and every fear . 
repeated Julia faintly , -- `` lives ! 
-- Her breath refused to aid her , and she sunk in her chair , overcome with the strong and various sensations that pressed upon her heart . 
Ferdinand , whom the grate with-held from assisting her , observed her situation in extreme distress . 
When she recovered , he informed her that a servant of Hippolitus , sent no doubt by his lord to enquire concerning Julia , had been lately seen by one of the marquis 's people in the neighbourhood of the castle . 
It was enough for Julia to know that Hippolitus lived ; her fears of detection , and her scruples concerning Ferdinand , instantly vanished ; she thought only of escape -- and the means which had lately appeared so formidable -- so difficult in contrivance , and so dangerous in execution , now seemed easy , certain , and almost accomplished . 
When the inhabitants of the abbey were sunk in repose , Julia might without difficulty pass to the church , where Ferdinand awaiting her , they might perhaps escape either through an outer door of the fabric , or through a window , for which latter attempt Ferdinand was to provide ropes . 
Madame warmly sympathized with Julia in her present expectations and was now somewhat relieved from the pressure of that self reproach , with which the consideration of having withdrawn Julia from a secure asylum , had long tormented her . 
In learning that Hippolitus lived , Julia experienced a sudden renovation of life and spirits . 
From the languid stupefaction which despair had occasioned she revived as from a dream , and her sensations resembled those of a person suddenly awakened from a frightful vision , whose thoughts are yet obscured in the fear and uncertainty which the passing images have impressed on his fancy . 
She emerged from despair ; joy illumined her countenance ; yet she doubted the reality of the scene which now opened to her view . 
The hours rolled heavily along till the evening , when expectation gave way to fear , for she was once more summoned by the Abate . 
He sent for her to administer the usual necessary exhortation on the approaching solemnity ; and having detained her a considerable time in tedious and severe discourse , dismissed her with a formal benediction . 
The evening now sunk in darkness , and the hour was fast approaching which would decide the fate of Julia . 
Trembling anxiety now subdued every other sensation ; and as the minutes passed , her fears increased . 
At length she heard the gates of the monastery fastened for the night ; the bell rang the signal for repose ; and the passing footsteps of the nuns told her they were hastening to obey it . 
Julia did not yet dare to venture forth ; she employed the present interval in interesting and affectionate conversation with Madame de Menon , to whom , notwithstanding her situation , her heart bade a sorrowful adieu . 
The clock struck twelve , when she arose to depart . 
Having embraced her faithful friend with tears of mingled grief and anxiety , she took a lamp in her hand , and with cautious , fearful steps descended through the long winding passages to a private door , which opened into the church of the monastery . 
The church was gloomy and desolate ; and the feeble rays of the lamp she bore , gave only light enough to discover its chilling grandeur . 
As she passed silently along the aisles , she cast a look of anxious examination around -- but Ferdinand was no where to be seen . 
She paused in timid hesitation , fearful to penetrate the gloomy obscurity which lay before her , yet dreading to return . 
As she stood examining the place , vainly looking for Ferdinand , yet fearing to call lest her voice should betray her , a hollow groan arose from a part of the church very near her . 
It chilled her heart , and she remained fixed to the spot . 
She turned her eyes a little to the left , and saw light appear through the chinks of a sepulchre at some distance . 
The groan was repeated -- a low murmuring succeeded , and while she yet gazed , an old man issued from the vault with a lighted taper in his hand . 
Terror now subdued her , and she uttered an involuntary shriek . 
In the succeeding moment , a noise was heard in a remote part of the fabric ; and Ferdinand rushing forth from his concealment , ran to her assistance . 
His countenance expressed a degree of surprize and terror almost equal to that of Julia 's , who now knew him to be the confessor of Vincent . 
I pity the distresses of the lady Julia , to whom I am no stranger , and will cheerfully give her all the assistance in my power . '' 
At these words Julia revived , and Ferdinand , reproved by the generosity of the father , and conscious of his own inferiority , shrunk back . 
Julia 's tears declared her gratitude ; she had no time for words . 
Julia , whose fears conspired with the gloom of night to magnify and transform every object around her , imagined at each step that she took , she perceived the figures of men , and fancied every whisper of the breeze the sound of pursuit . 
They proceeded swiftly , till Julia breathless and exhausted could go no farther . 
Ferdinand and Julia instantly renewed their flight , and thought they still heard voices advance upon the wind . 
Julia trembled with terror , and Ferdinand drew his sword , determined to protect her to the last . 
A confused volley of voices now sounded up that part of the cave where Ferdinand and Julia lay concealed . 
He returned , therefore , to Julia , and remained near an hour hid in the deepest recess of the rock ; when , no found having interrupted the profound silence of the place , he at length once more ventured to the mouth of the cave . 
Ferdinand now led Julia forth , and they passed silently along the shelving foot of the rocks . 
Ferdinand and Julia immediately mounted ; and descending to the plains , took the road that led to a small sea port at some leagues distance , whence they could embark for Italy . 
They travelled for some hours through gloomy forests of beech and chesnut ; and their way was only faintly illuminated by the moon , which shed a trembling lustre through the dark foliage , and which was seen but at intervals , as the passing clouds yielded to the power of her rays . 
It was with inexpressible joy that Julia observed the kindling atmosphere ; and soon after the rays of the rising sun touching the tops of the mountains , whose sides were yet involved in dark vapours . 
Her fears dissipated with the darkness . 
-- The sun now appeared amid clouds of inconceivable splendour ; and unveiled a scene which in other circumstances Julia would have contemplated with rapture . 
Notwithstanding her anxiety , the scene diffused a soft complacency over the mind of Julia . 
When the dawn appeared , Julia returned to the deck ; and viewed with a sigh of unaccountable regret , the receding coast of Sicily . 
But she observed with high admiration , the light gradually spreading through the atmosphere , darting a feeble ray over the surface of the waters , which rolled in solemn soundings upon the distant shores . 
The magnificence of the scenery inspired Julia with delight ; and her heart dilating with high enthusiasm , she forgot the sorrows which had oppressed her . 
Sicily was yet in view , and the present delay agitated Julia with wild apprehension . 
The evening shut in suddenly : the rising wind , the heavy clouds that loaded the atmosphere , and the thunder which murmured afar off , terrified Julia , and threatened a violent storm . 
Julia lay fainting with terror and sickness in the cabin , and Ferdinand though almost hopeless himself was endeavouring to support her , when a loud and dreadful crash was heard from above . 
They imagined they were on the shores of Sicily , but possessed no means of confirming this conjecture , Terror , sickness , and fatigue had subdued the strength and spirits of Julia , and she was obliged to rest upon the rocks . 
When Julia was somewhat re-animated , they proceeded up the country in search of a dwelling . 
It was the first human habitation they had seen since they embarked for Italy ; and Julia , who was almost sinking with fatigue , beheld it with delight . 
The captain and his men hastened towards it to make known their distress , while Ferdinand and Julia slowly followed . 
Julia with difficulty reached the edifice , at the door of which she was met by a young cavalier , whose pleasing and intelligent countenance immediately interested her in his favour . 
They welcomed Julia with graceful kindness ; but fatigue soon obliged her to retire to rest , and a consequent indisposition encreased so rapidly , as to render it impracticable for her to quit her present abode on that day . 
The captain and his men proceeded on their way , leaving Ferdinand and Julia at the villa , where she experienced every kind and tender affection . 
The day which was to have devoted Julia to a cloister , was ushered in at the abbey with the usual ceremonies . 
The hour of celebration arrived , and he entered the church with a proud firm step , and with a countenance which depictured his inward triumph ; he was proceeding to the high altar , when he was told that Julia was no where to be found . 
Astonishment for a while suspended other emotions , -- he yet believed it impossible that she could have effected an escape , and ordered every part of the abbey to be searched -- not forgetting the secret caverns belonging to the monastery , which wound beneath the woods . 
When the search was over , and he became convinced she was fled ; the deep workings of his disappointed passions fermented into rage which exceeded all bounds . 
He denounced the most terrible judgments upon Julia ; and calling for Madame de Menon , charged her with having insulted her holy religion , in being accessary to the flight of Julia . 
Madame endured these reproaches with calm dignity , and preserved a steady silence ; but she secretly determined to leave the monastery , and seek in another , the repose which she could never hope to find in this . 
The report of Julia 's disappearance spread rapidly beyond the walls , and soon reached the ears of the marquis , who rejoiced in the circumstance , believing that she must now inevitably fall into his hands . 
After his people , in obedience to his orders , had carefully searched the surrounding woods and rocks , he withdrew them from the abbey ; and having dispersed them various ways in search of Julia , he returned to the castle of Mazzini . 
The mystery of Julia 's flight was now dissolved ; for it was evident by whose means she had effected it , and the marquis issued orders to his people to secure Ferdinand wherever he should be found . 
He scarcely doubted that Julia was now devoted to the duke , and this thought was at times poison to his heart . 
The eagerness with which we endeavour to escape from misery , taught him to encourage a remote and romantic hope , that Julia yet lived for him . 
By him he learned the news of Julia 's flight , and his heart dilated with joy ; but it was suddenly checked , when he heard the marquis had discovered her retreat in the abbey of St. Augustin . 
Julia might yet be lost to him for ever . 
As soon as he was sufficiently recovered , he quitted Italy for Sicily , in the design of visiting the monastery of St. Augustin , where it was possible Julia might yet remain . 
As he travelled , his imagination revolved the scenes of his early love , the distress of Julia , and the sufferings of Ferdinand , and his heart melted at the retrospect . 
He considered the probabilities of Julia 's having found protection from her father in the pity of the Padre Abate ; and even ventured to indulge himself in a flattering , fond anticipation of the moment , when Julia should again be restored to his sight . 
He arrived at the monastery , and his grief may easily be imagined , when he was informed of the death of his beloved sister , and of the flight of Julia . 
Her screams now redoubled , but they were of no avail with the ruffian who had seized her in his arms ; when the count , who was unarmed , insensible to every impulse but that of a generous pity , burst into the room , but became fixed like a statue when he beheld his Julia struggling in the grasp of the ruffian . 
On discovering Hippolitus , she made a sudden spring , and liberated herself ; when , running to him , she sunk lifeless in his arms . 
Surprize and fury sparkled in the eyes of the ruffian , and he turned with a savage desperation upon the count ; who , relinquishing Julia , snatched up the sword of the dead ruffian , which lay upon the floor , and defended himself . 
He flew to Julia , who now revived , but who for some time could speak only by her tears . 
The transitions of various and rapid sensations , which her heart experienced , and the strangely mingled emotions of joy and terror that agitated Hippolitus , can only be understood by experience . 
He raised her from the floor , and endeavoured to soothe her to composure , when she called wildly upon Ferdinand . 
His heart thrilled with secret agony , yet he resolved to with-hold his terrible conjectures from Julia , of whom he learned that Ferdinand , with herself , had been taken by banditti in the way from the villa which had offered them so hospitable a reception after the ship-wreck . 
Julia added that Ferdinand had been immediately separated from her ; and that , for some hours , she had been confined in the apartment where Hippolitus found her . 
The count with difficulty concealed his terrible apprehensions for Ferdinand , and vainly strove to soften Julia 's distress . 
After some little consideration , Hippolitus judged it most prudent to seek an outlet through the passage by which he entered ; he therefore took the lamp , and led Julia to the door . 
The count could scarcely support the fainting spirits of Julia ; he ran to the door which he endeavoured to open , but the lock was so constructed that it could be moved only on the other side , and all his efforts were useless . 
The sufferings of Hippolitus were increased by those of Julia , who was sinking with horror , and who he endeavoured to support to a part of the vault which fell into a recess -- where stood a bench . 
He prepared for the worst -- and drawing his sword , resolved to defend Julia to the last . 
Julia overcome with distress and terror , sunk on the ground ; and Hippolitus , descending from the grate , became insensible of his own danger in his apprehension for her . 
The room was dark and empty , but the traces of blood were visible on the floor ; and Julia , though ignorant of the particular apprehension of Hippolitus , almost swooned at the sight . 
They gave notice to Hippolitus of what was passing above , who hurried Julia along the passage in search of some outlet or concealment . 
Despair gave strength to Julia , and winged her flight . 
When Julia had rested , they followed the track before them , and in a short time arrived at a village where they obtained security and refreshment . 
But Julia , whose mind was occupied with dreadful anxiety concerning Ferdinand , became indifferent to all around her . 
Even the presence of Hippolitus , which but lately would have raised her from misery to joy , failed to soothe her distress . 
The steady and noble attachment of her brother had sunk deep in her heart , and reflection only aggravated her affliction . 
Yet the banditti had steadily persisted in affirming that he was not concealed in their recesses ; and this circumstance , which threw a deeper shade over the fears of Hippolitus , imparted a glimmering of hope to the mind of Julia . 
A more immediate interest at length forced her mind from this sorrowful subject . 
It was necessary to determine upon some line of conduct , for she was now in an unknown spot , and ignorant of any place of refuge . 
The count , who trembled at the dangers which environed her , and at the probabilities he saw of her being torn from him for ever , suffered a consideration of them to overcome the dangerous delicacy which at this mournful period required this silence . 
He entreated her to destroy the possibility of separation , by consenting to become his immediately . 
This proposal , though similar to the one she had before accepted ; and though the certain means of rescuing her from the fate she dreaded , she now turned from in sorrow and dejection . 
She loved Hippolitus with a steady and tender affection , which was still heightened by the gratitude he claimed as her deliverer ; but she considered it a prophanation of the memory of that brother who had suffered so much for her sake , to mingle joy with the grief which her uncertainty concerning him occasioned . 
She softened her refusal with a tender grace , that quickly dissipated the jealous doubt arising in the mind of Hippolitus , and encreased his fond admiration of her character . 
She desired to retire for a time to some obscure convent , there to await the issue of the event , which at present involved her in perplexity and sorrow . 
He procured horses ; and leaving the officers to return to Palermo for a stronger guard , he , accompanied by Julia , entered on the road to Palini . 
Julia was silent and thoughtful ; Hippolitus gradually sunk into the same mood , and he often cast a cautious look around as they travelled for some hours along the foot of the mountains . 
The evening sun shed a mild and mellow lustre over the landscape , and softened each feature with a vermil glow that would have inspired a mind less occupied than Julia 's , with sensations of congenial tranquillity . 
As they drew nearer , the words they spoke were distinguishable , and Julia heard her own name sounded . 
Shocked at this circumstance , she had now no doubt that she was discovered by a party of her father 's people , and she fled with Hippolitus along the valley . 
The pursuers , however , were almost come up with them , when they reached the mouth of a cavern , into which she ran for concealment . 
In a few moments Julia heard the clashing of swords . 
Her heart trembled for Hippolitus ; and she was upon the point of returning to resign herself at once to the power of her enemies , and thus avert the danger that threatened him , when she distinguished the loud voice of the duke . 
She shrunk involuntarily at the sound , and pursuing the windings of the cavern , fled into its inmost recesses . 
Here she had not been long when the voices sounded through the cave , and drew near . 
It was now evident that Hippolitus was conquered , and that her enemies were in search of her . 
She threw round a look of unutterable anguish , and perceived very near , by a sudden gleam of torch-light a low and deep recess in the rock . 
The light , which belonged to her pursuers , grew stronger , and she entered the rock on her knees , for the overhanging drags would not suffer her to pass otherwise ; and having gone a few yards , perceived that it was terminated by a door . 
The door yielded to her touch , and she suddenly found herself in a highly vaulted cavern , which received a feeble light from the moon beams that streamed through an opening in the rock above . 
She closed the door , and paused to listen . 
The voices grew louder , and more distinct , and at last approached so near that she distinguished what was said . 
Above the rest she heard the voice of the duke . 
`` It is impossible she can have quitted the cavern , '' said he , `` and I will not leave it till I have found her . 
These words were sufficient for Julia ; she fled from the door across the cavern before her , and having ran a considerable way without coming to a termination , stopped to breathe . 
All was now still ; and as she looked around , the gloomy obscurity of the place struck upon her fancy all its horrors . 
She imperfectly surveyed the vastness of the cavern in wild amazement , and feared that she had precipitated herself again into the power of banditti , for whom alone this place appeared a fit receptacle . 
Having listened a long time without hearing a return of voices , she sought to find the door by which she had entered , but the gloom , and vast extent of the cavern made the endeavour hopeless , and the attempt unsuccessful . 
Having wandered a considerable time through the void , she gave up the effort , endeavoured to resign herself to her fate , and to compose her distracted thoughts . 
The remembrance of her former wonderful escape inspired her with confidence in the mercy of God . 
But Hippolitus and Ferdinand were now both lost to her -- lost , perhaps for ever -- and the uncertainty of their fate gave force to fancy , and poignancy to sorrow . 
Towards morning grief yielded to nature , and Julia sunk to repose . 
She was awakened by the sun , whose rays darting obliquely through the opening in the rock , threw a partial light across the cavern . 
Her senses were yet bewildered by sleep , and she started in affright on beholding her situation ; as recollection gradually stole upon her mind , her sorrows returned , and she sickened at the fatal retrospect . 
She arose , and renewed her search for an outlet . 
The light , imperfect as it was , now assisted her , and she found a door , which she perceived was not the one by which she had entered . 
It was firmly fastened ; she discovered , however , the bolts and the lock that held it , and at length unclosed the door . 
It opened upon a dark passage , which she entered . 
She groped along the winding walls for some time , when she perceived the way was obstructed . 
She now discovered that a door interrupted her progress , and sought for the bolts which might fasten it . 
These she found ; and strengthened by desperation forced them back . 
The door opened , and she beheld in a small room , which received its feeble light from a window above , the pale and emaciated figure of a woman , seated , with half closed eyes , in a kind of elbow chair . 
On perceiving Julia , she started from her seat , and her countenance expressed a wild surprize . 
Her features , which were worn by sorrow , still retained the traces of beauty , and in her air was a mild dignity that excited in Julia an involuntary veneration . 
She seemed as if about to speak , when fixing her eyes earnestly and steadily upon Julia , she stood for a moment in eager gaze , and suddenly exclaiming , `` My daughter ! '' 
The astonishment of Julia would scarcely suffer her to assist the lady , who lay senseless on the floor . 
A multitude of strange imperfect ideas rushed upon her mind , and she was lost in confusion and perplexity ; but as she examined the features of the stranger , which were now re-kindling into life , she thought she discovered the resemblance of Emilia ! 
The lady breathing a deep sigh , unclosed her eyes ; she raised them to Julia , who hung over her in speechless astonishment , and fixing them upon her with a tender earnest expression -- they filled with tears . 
She pressed Julia to her heart , and a few moments of exquisite , unutterable emotion followed . 
Truth now glimmered upon the mind of Julia , but so faintly , that instead of enlightening , it served only to encrease her perplexity . 
These words were not to be doubted ; Julia threw herself at the feet of her mother , and embracing her knees in an energy of joy , answered only in sobs . 
The marchioness eagerly enquired after her children . 
`` Emilia is living , '' answered Julia , `` but my dear brother -- '' `` Tell me , '' cried the marchioness , with quickness . 
When she was informed concerning Ferdinand , she sighed deeply , and raising her eyes to heaven , endeavoured to assume a look of pious resignation ; but the struggle of maternal feeling was visible in her countenance , and almost overcame her powers of resistance . 
Julia gave a short account of the preceding adventures , and of her entrance into the cavern ; and found to her inexpressible suprize , that she was now in a subterranean abode belonging to the southern buildings of the castle of Mazzini ! 
The marchioness was beginning her narrative , when a door was heard to unlock above , and the sound of a footstep followed . 
Julia 's heart sunk at these words ; she paused not a moment , but retired through the door by which she had entered . 
This she had scarcely done , when another door of the cell was unlocked , and she heard the voice of her father . 
Its sounds thrilled her with universal tremour ; the dread of discovery so strongly operated upon her mind , that she stood in momentary expectation of seeing the door of the passage unclosed by the marquis ; and she was deprived of all power of seeking refuge in the cavern . 
At length the marquis , who came with food , quitted the cell , and re-looked the door , when Julia stole forth from her hiding place . 
The marchioness again embraced , and wept over her daughter . 
The narrative of her sufferings upon which she now entered , entirely dissipated the mystery which had so long enveloped the southern buildings of the castle . 
At the name of Vincent , Julia started ; the doubtful words he had uttered on his death bed were now explained -- the cloud of mystery which had so long involved the southern buildings broke at once away ; and each particular circumstance that had excited her former terror , arose to her view entirely unveiled by the words of the marchioness . 
-- The long and total desertion of this part of the fabric -- the light that had appeared through the casement -- the figure she had seen issue from the tower -- the midnight noises she had heard -- were circumstances evidently dependant on the imprisonment of the marchioness ; the latter of which incidents were produced either by Vincent , or the marquis , in their attendance upon her . 
When she considered the long and dreadful sufferings of her mother , and that she had for many years lived so near her ignorant of her misery , and even of her existence -- she was lost in astonishment and pity . 
Julia remembering that Ferdinand had been confined in a dungeon of the castle , it instantly occurred to her that his prison , and that of the marchioness , were not far distant ; and she scrupled not to believe that it was his voice which her mother had heard . 
She was right in this belief , and it was indeed the marchioness whose groans had formerly caused Ferdinand so much alarm , both in the marble hall of the south buildings , and in his dungeon . 
When Julia communicated her opinion , and the marchioness believed that she had heard the voice of her son -- her emotion was extreme , and it was some time before she could resume her narration . 
Julia attended to the narrative of her mother in silent astonishment , and gave all the sympathy which sorrow could demand . 
`` Surely '' cried she , `` the providence on whom you have so firmly relied , and whose inflictions you have supported with a fortitude so noble , has conducted me through a labyrinth of misfortunes to this spot , for the purpose of delivering you ! 
She paused , in earnest expectation awaiting a reply . 
This question spoken with the emphasis of despair , affected Julia to tears , and she was for a while silent . 
`` The marquis , '' resumed Julia , `` would know not where to seek you , or if he found you beyond his own domains , would fear to claim you . 
The marchioness assented to the truth of this , yet her broken spirits , the effect of long sorrow and confinement , made her hesitate how to act ; and there was a kind of placid despair in her look , which too faithfully depictured her feelings . 
It was obvious to Julia that the cavern she had passed wound beneath the range of mountains on whose opposite side stood the castle of Mazzini . 
She represented these circumstances to her mother , and urged them so forcibly , that the lethargy of despair yielded to hope , and the marchioness committed herself to the conduct of her daughter . 
cried Julia with warm enthusiasm . 
They both knelt down ; and the marchioness with that affecting eloquence which true piety inspires , and with that confidence which had supported her through so many miseries , committed herself to the protection of God , and implored his favour on their attempt . 
They arose , but as they conversed farther on their plan , Julia recollected that she was destitute of money -- the banditti having robbed her of all ! 
The sudden shock produced by this remembrance almost subdued her spirits ; never till this moment had she understood the value of money . 
But she commanded her feelings , and resolved to conceal this circumstance from the marchioness , preferring the chance of any evil they might encounter from without , to the certain misery of this terrible imprisonment . 
Julia came first to the door of the cavern , but who can paint her distress when she found it was fastened ! 
All her efforts to open it were ineffectual . 
-- The door which had closed after her , was held by a spring lock , and could be opened on this side only with a key . 
When she understood this circumstance , the marchioness , with a placid resignation which seemed to exalt her above humanity , addressed herself again to heaven , and turned back to her cell . 
Here Julia indulged without reserve , and without scruple , the excess of her grief . 
The marchioness wept over her . 
`` Not for myself , '' said she , `` do I grieve , -- I have too long been inured to misfortune to sink under its pressure . 
It is for you , Julia , who so much lament my fate ; and who , in being thus delivered to the power of your father , are sacrificed to the duke de Luovo -- that my heart swells . '' 
Julia could make no reply , but by pressing to her lips the hand which was held forth to her . 
She saw all the wretchedness of her situation ; and her fearful uncertainty concerning Hippolitus and Ferdinand , formed no inferior part of her affliction . 
talk not , madam , of a marriage with the duke , '' said Julia ; `` surely any fate is preferable to that . 
exclaimed the marchioness , clasping Julia to her bosom ; `` the sufferings you lament are almost repaid by this proof of your goodness and affection ! '' 
Julia now endeavoured to imitate the fortitude of her mother , and tenderly concealed her anxiety for Ferdinand and Hippolitus , the idea of whom incessantly haunted her imagination . 
When the marquis brought food to the cell , she retired to the avenue leading to the cavern , and escaped discovery . 
The marquis , meanwhile , whose indefatigable search after Julia failed of success , was successively the slave of alternate passions , and he poured forth the spleen of disappointment on his unhappy domestics . 
The marchioness , who may now more properly be called Maria de Vellorno , inflamed , by artful insinuations , the passions already irritated , and heightened with cruel triumph his resentment towards Julia and Madame de Menon . 
She represented , what his feelings too acutely acknowledged , -- that by the obstinate disobedience of the first , and the machinations of the last , a priest had been enabled to arrest his authority as a father -- to insult the sacred honour of his nobility -- and to overturn at once his proudest schemes of power and ambition . 
She declared it her opinion , that the Abate was acquainted with the place of Julia 's present retreat , and upbraided the marquis with want of spirit in thus submitting to be outwitted by a priest , and forbearing an appeal to the pope , whose authority would compel the Abate to restore Julia . 
He therefore became more earnest than ever for the marriage of Julia with the duke de Luovo , through whose means he designed to involve himself in the interests of the state , and determined to recover her at whatever consequence . 
He mingled a poisonous drug with the food he designed for her ; and when night arrived , carried it to the cell . 
His countenance , over which was diffused the paleness of death , expressed the secret movements of his soul , and he gazed upon her with eyes of stiffened horror . 
Alarmed by his looks , she fell upon her knees to supplicate his pity . 
Her attitude recalled his bewildered senses ; and endeavouring to assume a tranquil aspect , he bade her rise , and instantly quitted the cell , fearful of the instability of his purpose . 
His mind was not yet sufficiently hardened by guilt to repel the arrows of conscience , and his imagination responded to her power . 
But amid all the tumult of the present scenes , his uncertainty concerning Julia , whom he had left in the hands of banditti , and whom he had been with-held from seeking or rescuing , formed perhaps the most affecting part of his distress . 
He believed that Julia was still in the power of banditti ; and on the conclusion of his father 's funeral , he set forward himself to Palermo to give information of the abode of the robbers , and to repair with the officers of justice , accompanied by a party of his own people , to the rescue of his sister . 
At length he quitted Palermo for the forest of Marentino , thinking it possible that Julia might be heard of in its neighbourhood . 
The sight of the fire cheered him , and he advanced towards it , when a sudden scream seized his attention ; the company rose up in confusion , and in the same instant he discovered Julia and Hippolitus . 
When the first emotion of the scene was passed , Julia enquired by what means Ferdinand had come to this spot . 
He answered her generally , and avoided for the present entering upon the affecting subject of the late events at the castle of Mazzini . 
Julia related the history of her adventures since she parted with her brother . 
In her narration , it appeared that Hippolitus , who was taken by the duke de Luovo , at the mouth of the cave , had afterwards escaped , and returned to the cavern in search of Julia . 
The low recess in the rock , through which Julia had passed , he perceived by the light of his flambeau . 
At the sound of footsteps above , Hippolitus and Julia had secreted themselves in the avenue ; and immediately on the marquis 's departure they all repaired to the cavern , leaving in the hurry of their flight untouched the poisonous food he had brought . 
The marchioness , thus restored to the world , and to happiness , resided with her children in the palace at Naples , where , after time had somewhat mellowed the remembrance of the late calamity , the nuptials of Hippolitus and Julia were celebrated . 
Emilia , wholly attached to her family , continued to reside with the marchioness , who saw her race renewed in the children of Hippolitus and Julia . 
Thus surrounded by her children and friends , and engaged in forming the minds of the infant generation , she seemed to forget that she had ever been otherwise than happy . '' 
