Mrs Reynolds , too , like her husband , performed exactly the duties of her station . 
She never perhaps read a line of poetry , save such as might lurk in the ` Poet 's Corner ' of a village paper , but her whole life was an illustration of the oldfashioned couplet -- ` Honor and shame from no condition rise , Act well your part , there all the honor lies . ' 
She never was presidentess of a ` society for ameliorating the condition of the Jews , ' or secretary or treasurer of any of those beneficent associations that rescue the latent talents of women from obscurity and mettrent en scénegems and flowers that might otherwise shine and exhale unnoticed and unknown ; but though humble was her name and destiny , her memory is dear to the wayfaring . 
Quiet , order , and neatness , reigned at her bed and board . 
No pirates harbored in her bedsteads , no bad luck , that evil genius of housewives , curdled her cream , spoiled her butter or her bread , but her table was spread with such simple , wholesome fare as might have lit a smile on the wan visage of an old dispeptic ; and this we take to be the greatest achievement of the gastronomic art . 
In addition to the feeling , common to all women , who naturally crave the sweetest objects for their tenderest and strongest affections , Mrs Reynolds lamented her childless state with a bitterness of repining approaching to that of the Hebrew wives . 
With everything else in her possession that could inspire contentment , her mind was fixed on this one desired good , and , like Hannah of old , she was still a ` woman of a sorrowful spirit . ' 
Instead of being placed on the roadside , as most of our taverns are -- for what reason we know not , unless a cloud of travellers ' dust be typical of a shower of gold to the vision of mine host -- Reynolds 's inn was separated from the highway by a court yard , shaded by two wide spreading elms , and enlivened with a profusion of autumnal flowers , marigolds , cockscombs , and china asters . 
They were well looking and respectably apparelled ; and , accordingly , having announced their determination to remain for the night , they were shown to an inner room , the parlour , par excellence , where Mrs Reynolds appeared , and having opened a door which admitted the balmy air and a view of the western sky , just then brightened by the tints of the setting sun , she received their orders for their supper , and retired without one of those remarks or inquiries by which it is usual , on such occasions to give vent to curiosity . 
A cornucopia would have been the appropriate symbol for Mrs Reynolds 's table . 
She had just become tranquil , when Mrs Reynolds entered . 
` I call her mine , ' was the brief and not very satisfactory reply . 
` She resembles neither you nor your husband , ' resumed the traveller . 
` No ; she does not favor us . ' 
` I fancied she had a French look . ' 
` No , I guess she did not sense him , ' replied Mrs Reynolds , with an air of indifference ; and then turning hastily to the child , ` Mary , ' she said , ` there is more company ; go and see if your father does not want you . ' 
Mrs Reynolds herself removed the table . 
` Then Madamethere , Mistress Reynolds , is your maman ? ' 
screamed Mrs Reynolds from the kitchen door , in a tone that admitted no delay , and the child ran off without finishing her sentence . 
it is not only the French , the Norman aspect , the -- do not ridicule me -- the Angely traits that attract me ; but you yourself noticed how she listened to my language , and then this Mistress Reynolds does not say she is her child , but only she callsher so . ' 
We have put into plain English a conversation that was supported in French , and was now broken off by the approach of Mrs Reynolds , who came to tell the travellers their bedrooms were ready . 
By the light of the candle she brought , she discovered Mary , concealed in a corner of the passage close to the door , where , in breathless stillness , she had been listening . 
You will make me angry with you , Mary , if you do not mind me better than this , ' she added in an under tone , and the child stole away , but without looking either very penitent or very fearful ; and in truth she had cause for neither penitence nor fear , for she had only gratified an innocent and almost irrepressible inclination , and as to Dame Reynolds 's anger , it was never formidable . 
A gleam of pleasure shot across Mrs Reynolds 's face , but it soon darkened again with anxiety and perplexity . 
she asked herself . 
A burst of tears concluded this mental interrogation , and proved that , however earnestly her heart might plead before the tribunal of conscience , yet the stern decision of that unerring judge was heard . 
It may seem unnatural to the inexperienced , that Mrs Reynolds did not communicate her embarrassment and irresolution , from whatever cause they proceeded , to her husband ; but she well knew what would be the result of a consultation ; for he , good man , never viewed a subject but from one position , and we are all slow to ask advice that we foresee will be counter to our wishes . 
Mrs Reynolds , so far then from appealing to the constituted authority of her household , locked her discovery within her own bosom , and , to avoid all suspicion and inquiry , she composed herself as soon as possible , and retired to her bed , but not to sleep ; and at peep of dawn , she was up and prepared to obtain all the satisfaction that indirect interrogation could procure from the travellers , and her mental resolution , invigorated by a night 's solitary reflection , was ` to act up to her light . ' 
They had ordered breakfast at a very early hour , and she took care to be the only person in attendance on them . 
When they were seated at table , she placed herself in a rocking chair behind them , a position that happily reconciles the necessity of service with the dignity of independence , and began her meditated approaches , by saying to her own countryman , ` I believe you left a letter here last night , sir ; I laid it in the cupboard for fear of accidents . ' 
Most women are born diplomatists , and Mrs Reynolds took care to reply to the last interrogatory so carefully as not to commit herself . 
` It stands to reason , ' she said , ` a letter that is to go all the way over the wide sea to the old countries , should be of consequence . ' 
Mrs Reynolds , `` friends are sometimes better than kindred . '' 
said Mrs Reynolds , as if recalling some faded recollection , ` Angely -- I think I have heard that name before . ' 
` But it ca n't be the same , ' replied Mrs Reynolds ; ` for the person I speak of lived over in Livingston 's manner ; and kind to strangers he could not be , for he deserted his own flesh and blood , and went off early in the war . ' 
` I have not the slightest objection , ma'am , to telling the story , if you have the patience to hear it ; especially as I see I must wait till Jaubert has finished two more of your nice fresh eggs -- `` eggs of an hour , '' Mrs Reynolds . ' 
she added , betraying , in the tremulous tones of her voice , some emotion more heart stirring than curiosity . 
Jaubert turned a glance of inquiry on her that was answered by a sudden rush of blood to her cheeks ; but the narrator proceeded without noticing anything extraordinary . 
` It was my good , or ill luck , ' he said , -- ` and it is only in the long run we can tell whether luck be good or ill -- but it was my luck to be shipwrecked on the coast of Normandy , and good luck it certainly was , Jaubert , in my distress , to make such a port as the Château de Crève-Cœur -- the castle , or , as we should call it here , Mrs Reynolds , the estate of the Angely 's . 
He was kind and affable to me , and always doing something for my pleasure , but I could see he had a heaviness at his heart -- that he was often talking of one thing and thinking of another -- nothing like so gay as the old gentleman , his father ; who was like a fall flower -- one of your marigolds , Mrs Reynolds , spreading itself open to every ray of sunshine , as if there were no frosts and winter and death at hand . 
Judgment , I may say mercy , too -- in the dealings of Providence , Mrs Reynolds , one is always close on the track of the other -- followed him thither . 
repeated Mrs Reynolds , involuntarily sighing . 
exclaimed Mrs Reynolds , feeling relieved from an insupportable weight . 
Mrs Reynolds rose and left the room , and did not return till she was sufficiently composed to ask , in an assured voice , ` What was their object in looking for the girl , if the father did not mean to reclaim her ? ' 
Mrs Reynolds and her husband were , two years prior to this period , approaching the close of a winter day 's ride . 
In the mean time , though Mrs Reynolds 's residence was not more than thirty miles from the place where she had found the child , no inquiry was made for her . 
The account she gave of herself sufficiently explained this neglect . 
She said she had no mother ; that her father had left home just after the snows melted and the birds came back ; that he had left her and her two brothers , Jean and Avenel , with a woman to take care of them ; that when this woman had waited a great while for their father , she grew tired and was cross to them , and then she too went away , and left them quite alone . 
This simple story established the conviction , that had been gaining strength in Mrs Reynolds 's mind , with every day 's attendance on the interesting child , that they had been brought together by the special providence of God ; and most faithfully did she discharge the maternal duties that she believed had been thus miraculously imposed on her . 
These events occurred during the revolutionary war , a period of disaster and distress , when a very diligent search for a friendless child was not likely to be made , and as no inquiry ever reached Mrs Reynolds 's ear , and as she deemed the foundling an orphan , she had not hesitated to appropriate her . 
Her name was changed from Marie Angely to Mary Reynolds ; and the good woman seemed as secure and happy as any mother , save when she was reminded of the imperfection of her title by the too curious inquiries of travellers . 
This was the experience of Mrs Reynolds . 
She rose from her devotions with the conviction , that but one course remained to her , and with a degree of tranquillity , hastened to Mary 's bedroom . 
Marie Angely had faithfully discharged the debt of gratitude to Mrs Reynolds , and though acquiring , as may be supposed , somewhat of the fastidiousness that accompanies refined education and intercourse , no one could perceive any abatement of her respect or affection for her kind protectress , or the slightest diminution of her familiarity with her . 
She passed a part of every summer with her , always called her mother , and , by the fidelity of her kindness and the charm of her manner , she diffused light and warmth over the whole tract of Mrs Reynolds 's existence . 
She linked expectations , that might have been blasted , to a happy futurity , and cherished and elevated affections , which , but for her sunny influence , would have been left to wither and perish . 
Miss Angely had been on one of her annual visits to her humble friend , and was on her way , accompanied by her , to New York , where she was to join Miss Liston , when the incidents occurred which we have related . 
Far from the mean pride of those who shrink from recurring to the humble stages in their progress to the heights of fortune , Madame Constant delighted in relating the vicissitudes of her life , and dwelt particularly on that period , when , as Mrs Reynolds 's handmaid , she considered herself honored in standing behind the chair of the wife of the great General Knox . 
