`` I would n't make such a fuss , let what would happen to me , '' said the Widow Simms , casting a half contemptuous glance upon the weeping woman , whom she evidently considered far beneath her , and adding , `` They had ` nough-sight better be shot than hung , '' as an aside to the young woman just behind her , -- sweet Annie Graham , who was holding fast to her husband 's hand , as if she would thus keep him in spite of the speaker 's eloquent appeals , and the whispers of his companions , who were urging him to join the company forming so rapidly before the altar . 
There was a terrible struggle going on in Annie Graham 's breast , -- duty to her country and love for her husband waging a mighty conflict , the former telling her that if the right would triumph , somebody 's husband must go , and the wife-heart crying out , `` Yes , somebody 's husband mustgo , I know , but not mine , not George . '' 
Very tenderly George Graham 's strong arm encircled the girlish form , and when he saw how fast the tears came to the great dreamy eyes of blue , and thought how frail was the wife of little more than a year , he bent down until his chin rested on her pale brown hair , and whispered softly to her , `` Do n't , Annie , darling , you know I will never go unless you think I ought , and give your free consent . '' 
Annie repeated them to herself again and again , until consciousness of all else around her was forgotten in that one question of duty.She heard no longer the second speaker , whose burning eloquence was stirring up hitherto reluctant young men to place their names beside others already pledged to their country 's cause . 
Leaning forward so that her forehead rested on the railing in front , she tried to pray , but flesh and strength were weak , and the prayer ended always with the unuttered cry , `` I can not let George go , '' while the fingers twined more and more closely around the broad , warm hand , which sought awhile to reassure her , and then was withdrawn from her grasp as George arose and politely offered his seat to a lady who had just arrived , and who , after glancing an instant at his coat , accepted his civility as a matter of course , but withheld the thanks she would have accorded to one whom she considered her equal . 
Spreading out her wide skirt of rich blue silk so that it nearly covered poor Annie , she threw her crimson scarf across the railing in front , hitting Widow Simms , and so diverting the attention of Mrs. Baker , that the latter ceased her crying , while the widow turned with an expression half curious , half indignant . 
Annie , too , attracted by the heavy fringe and softly-blended colors of the scarf , a part of which had fallen upon her lap , as the widow shook it from her shoulder with a jerk , stole a glance at the new comer , in whom she recognized the bride , the beauty , the envied belle of Rockland , Rose Mather , from Boston , -- and wife of the wealthy and aristocratic William Mather , who three months before had ended the strife between the Rockland ladies as to what fair hand should spend his gold , and drive his iron greys , by bringing to his elegant mansion a fairy little creature with whose exquisite beauty even the most fastidious could not find fault . 
To Annie it seemed an enormous sum , and a little over-awed with her close proximity to one who could sport so expensive an article of dress , she involuntarily tried to move away , and avoid , if possible , being noticed by the brilliant belle . 
She might have spared herself the trouble , for Rose was too much absorbed with the group of admirers gathering around her to heed the shrinking figure at her side , and , after a time , as Widow Simms recovered her composure , she resumed her gay badinage , bringing in Will with every other breath , and showing how completely her heart was bound up in her husband , notwithstanding the evident satisfaction with which she received the flattering compliments of the gentlemen who , since her arrival at Rockland , had made it a point to admire and flirt with the little Boston belle , laughing loudly at speeches which , from one less piquant and attractive , would have been pronounced decidedly silly and meaningless . 
She was not one bit concerned , for no man who loved his wife as he ought , would want to go and leave her , '' and the little lady stroked her luxuriant curls coquettishly , spreading out still wider her silken robe , which now completely covered the plain shilling calico of poor Annie , whose heart for a moment beat almost to bursting as she asked herself if it were true , that no man who loved his wife as he ought , would want to go and leave her . 
He had caught the quick uplifting of Annie Graham 's head , -- had noted the indignant flashing of her blue eye , the kindling spot on her cheek , and glancing at George , he saw at once how Rose 's thoughtless words must have wounded her . 
she turned just in time to hear Annie Graham 's politely-spoken words of apology : `` I beg your pardon , madam ; they push me so behind that I could not help it . '' 
`` It is n't the least bit of matter , '' returned Rose , disarmed at once of all resentment , by Annie 's lady-like manner , and the expression of the face , on which traces of tears were still lingering . 
she whispered , as they emerged into the moonlight , and George Graham 's tall form was plainly discernible , together with that of his wife . 
Annie Graham heard both question and answer , and with emotions not particularly pleasant she whispered to herself : `` Rose Mather shall see that one man at least will not go , even if he is a mechanic and poor ! '' 
and clinging closer to George 's arm , she walked on in silence , thinking bitter thoughts of the little lady , who , delighted with having Willon one side of her , and Mr. Wentworth , his partner , on the other , tripped gaily on , laughing as lightly as if on the country 's horizon there were no dark , threatening cloud , which might yet overshadow her in its gloomy folds , and leave her heart as desolate as that of the Widow Simms , or the wailing mother of Harry and Bill . 
ROSE MATHER 'S home was a beautiful place , containing everything which love could devise , or money purchase , and Rose was very happy there , dancing like a sunbeam through the handsome rooms of which she was the mistress , and singing as gaily as her pet canary in its gilded cage by the door . 
No shadow of sorrow or care had ever crossed her pathway , and the eighteen summers of her short life had come and gone like so many pleasant memories , bringing with them one successive round of joys , leaving no blight behind , and bearing with them , alas , no thanks for the good bestowed , for Rose was far too thoughtless to think that the Providence which shielded her so tenderly , might have dealt more harshly with her . 
But the shadow was creeping on apace , and Rose was conscious that the war-meeting had awakened within her a new and uncomfortable train of thought . 
Like many others , she had a habit of believing that nothing very bad could happen to her , and so , let what might occur , she was sure her husband would be spared . 
Still , in spite of her gaiety , an undefined something haunted her all the way from the church , and even when alone with her husband in her tasteful sitting-room , with the bright gas-light falling cheerily around her , and adding a fresh lustre to the elegant furniture , she could not shake it off , nor guess what it was that ailed her . 
At last , however , it came to her , suggested by the sight of her husband 's evening paper , and laying her curly head upon his knee , she gave vent to her restlessness in the expression : `` I wish there would n't be any war . 
It was the first interest she had evinced in the matter , and glad to talk with any one upon the subject which was beginning to occupy so much of his own thoughts , Mr. Mather drew her into his lap , and endeavored , as far as possible , to explain to her what it all was for . 
Much of what he said , however , was Greek to Rose , who only gained a vague idea that the North was contending for a bit of cloth , such as she had often seen floating over the dome of the old State House in Boston , and with the remark , that men 's lives were far more valuable than all the Stars and Stripes in the world , she fell away to sleep , leaving her husband in the midst of an argument not quite clear to himself , for , like his wife , he could not then see exactly what the war was for.Still , inasmuch as there was war , he would not play the coward 's part , nor shrink from the post of duty if his country should need his services . 
and she turned toward Annie , who was rolling up bandages of linen , and weaving in with every coil a prayer that the poor soldier , whose lot it should be to need that band , might return again to the loved ones at home , or else be fitted for that better home , where war is unknown . 
Annie shook her head , but made no answer . 
There was no bitterness now in her heart against Rose Mather . 
She had prayed that all away , and only hoped the anguish which had come to her , making her brain giddy , and her heart faint , might never be borne by another , if that could be . 
George had volunteered , -- was to be second lieutenant , and Annie , oh , who shall tell of the gloom which had fallen so darkly around the cottage she had called hers for one brief year . 
It was a neat , cozy dwelling , and to Annie it never seemed so cheerful as on that memorable night of the war-meeting , when she had lighted the lamp , and sat down with George upon the chintz-covered lounge he had helped her make when first she was a bride . 
It was this trusting faith which made Annie Graham the sweet , gentle being she was , shedding its influence over her whole life , and softening down a disposition which otherwise might have been haughty and resentful . 
Annie was naturally high-spirited and proud , and Rose 's remarks concerning volunteers in general , and George in particular , had stung her to the quick , but with the indignant mood there came another impulse , and ere the cottage had been reached , the bitter feeling had gone , leaving nothing but sorrow that it had ever been there . 
Like Rose , she wished there would be no war , but wishing was of no avail , and long after George Graham was asleep and dreaming , it may be , of glories won on battle-fields , Annie lay awake , questioning within herself , whether she ought , by word or deed , to prevent her husband 's going , if he felt as he seemed to feel , that it was as much his duty as that of others to join in his country 's defence . 
Annie was no great reasoner , logically ; all her decisions were made to turn upon the simple question of right and wrong , and on this occasion she found it hard to tell , so evenly the balance seemed adjusted . 
More than once she stole from her pillow , and going out into the fresh night air , knelt in the moonlight , and asked for guidance to choose the right , even though that right should take her husband from her . 
`` If I knew he would not die , it would not be so hard to give him up , '' she murmured , as sickening visions of fields strewn with the dead , and hospitals filled with the dying , came over her , and for an instant her brain reeled with the thought of George dying thus , and leaving her no hope of meeting him again , for George 's faith was not like hers . 
Anon , however , something whispered to her that the God she loved was on the field of carnage , and in the camp and in the hospital , and everywhere as much as there in Rockland , that prayers innumerable would follow the brave volunteers , and that the evil she so much feared might be the means of working the great good she so desired . 
And thus it was that Annie came to a decision . 
Stealing back to her husband 's side , she bent above him as he lay sleeping , and with a heart which throbbed to its very core , though the lip uttered no sound , she gave him to his country asking , if it could be , that he might come back again , but if it were ordered otherwise -- `` God 's will be done . '' 
But save the death-white face , and heavy eyes , there was no token of the inner struggle , as with a desperate effort at self-command , Annie wound her arms around her husband 's neck , and whispered to him , `` You may go , -- I give my free consent , '' and George , who cared far more to go than he had dared express , kissed the lips which tried so hard to smile , little dreaming what it cost his brave young wife to tell him what she had . 
This was his idea , and ere the clinging arms had unclasped themselves from his neck , his imagination had leaped forward to the future , and in fancy George Graham wore , if not a Colonel 's , at least a Captain 's uniform , and the cottage on the hill , which Annie so much admired , and for the purchase of which a few hundreds were already saved , was his , -- bought with the money he would earn . 
The deed should be drawn in her name , too , he said , and he pictured her to himself coming down the walk to meet him , with the rose-blush on her cheek , just as she looked the first time he ever saw her . 
Something of this he told her , -- and Annie tried to smile , and think it all might be . 
But her heart that morning was far too heavy to be lightned by a picture of what seemed so improbable . 
Still , George 's hopeful confidence did much to reassure her , and when , a few days after , she started for the Hall , she purposely took a longer walk for the sake of passing the cottage on the hill , thinking , as she leaned over the low iron fence , how she would arrange the flower-beds more tastefully than they were now arranged , and teach the drooping vines to twine more gracefully around the slender columns supporting the piazza in front . 
She would have seats , too , -- willow-twisted chairs beneath the trees , where she and George could sit at twilight , and watch the shadows creeping across the hollow where the oldcottage was , and up the opposite hill , where the cupola of Rose Mather 's home was plainly visible , blazing in the April sunshine . 
It was a very pleasant castle which Annie built , and for a time the load of pain which , since George volunteered , had lain so heavy at her heart , was gone ; but it returned again when , as she passed a turn in the road , her eye wandered down to the hollow , and that other cottage standing there so brown and small , and looking already so desolate , because she knew that ere many days were over , she should wait in vain for the loved footsteps coming down the road , -- should miss the pleasant , cheery laugh , the teasing joke and words of love which made the world all sunshine . 
The cottage on the hill became a worthless thing as poor Annie forced back her tears , and with quickened steps hurried on to join the group of ladies busy at the Hall . 
Taking her seat by the window , she commenced the light work imposed on her , that of tearing and winding bandages for those who might be wounded . 
`` Maybe there 'll never be no fight , but it 's well enough to be prepared , '' was the soothing remark of the kindhearted woman who gave the work to Annie , noting , as she did so , how the lip quivered and the cheek paled at the very idea . 
kept suggesting itself to her as she worked industriously on , hoping that if he did , some one of the rolls she was winding might come to him , or better yet , if he could only have the bit of soft linen she had brought herself , -- a piece of her own clothing , and bearing on it her maiden name , Annie Howard . 
He would be sure to know it , she said , it was written so plainly with indelible ink , and it would make him feel so glad . 
But there might be other Annie Howards , it was not an uncommon name , was suggested next to her , as she tore the linen in strips , and quick as thought , her hand sought the pocket of her dress for the pencil which she knew was there . 
There were big tear-drops on that bit of linen , but Annie brushed them away , and went on with her rolling , just as Widow Simms called her attention to Rose Mather , as mentioned several pages back . 
Annie could not account for it to herself , but ever since Rose 's arrival at Rockland , she had felt a strange inexplicable interest in the fashionable belle ; an interest prompted by something more than mere curiosity , and now that there was an opportunity of seeing her without being herself seen , she straightened up and smoothing the soft braids of her pale brown hair , waited for the entrance of the little lady , who , with her pink hat set jauntily on her chestnut curls , and her rich fur collar buttoned gracefully over her handsome cloth cloak , tripped into the room , doing much by her sunny smile and pleasant manner to disarm the ladies of their recent prejudice against her . 
She was nothing but a child , they reflected ; a spoiled , petted child ; she would improve as she grow older , and came more in contact with the sharp corners of the world , so those who had the honor of her acquaintance , received her with the familiar deference , if we may be allowed the expression , which had always marked their manner toward William Mather 's bride . 
Ere Rose could collect her thoughts a group of frightened women had gathered around poor Annie , who had fainted . 
I wish I 'd staid at home ; I amso sorry , '' she kept repeating ; and when at last Annie returne tod consciousness , Rose Mather 's was the first voice she heard , Rose 's the first face she saw . 
With an involuntary shudder she closed her eyes wearily , while Rose anxiously asked of those about her how they should get her home . 
`` Oh , Jake , '' she suddenly exclaimed , as , towering above the female heads , she saw her colored coachman looking for her , and remembered that her husband was to call and take her out to ride , `` oh , Jake , lift this lady up , careful as you can , and put her in our carriage . 
Stand back , wo n't you , and let Jake come , '' she continued , authoritatively to the group of ladies who , half-amused and half-surprised at this new phase in Rose Mather 's character , made way for burly Jake , who lifted Annie 's light form as if it had been a feather 's weight , and bore it down the stairs , followed by Rose , who , with one breath , told Annie not to be a bit afraid , for Jake certainly would not drop her , and with the next asked Jake if he were positive and sure he was strong enough not to let her fall . 
he repeated , as he found himself rather unceremoniously landed upon the flagging stones , his Havana rolling at his feet , and his wife preparing to follow Annie , whom Jake had placed inside . 
There , Jake , we are ready now , drive on , '' said Rose , while poor Annie groaned afresh at this doubtful consolation . 
`` To be sure , nor I either , '' returned Rose , turning inquiringly to her husband , who gave the information , adding , as he glanced down the street , `` Mr. Graham himself is coming , I see . 
Rose , who was fond of adventures , wanted sadly to go with Annie , but George , when he came up , seemed so concerned , and asked so many questions , that she deemed it best to leave it for his wife to make the necessary explanations , merely saying , as she stepped upon the walk , `` I am so sorry , Mr. Graham ; I really did not mean anything wrong in saying I knew you 'd be shot , for you are so -- '' `` Rose , your dress is rubbing the wheel , '' interrupted Mr. Mather , by way of diverting Rose from repeating the act for which she was expressing sorrow . 
It is n't any where near it , '' said Rose , wondering what Will could mean ; while George , taking a seat by Annie , smiled at what he saw to be a ruse . 
Bent upon reconciliation , Rose pressed up to the carriage , and said to Annie , `` You wo n'tbe angry at me always , will you ? 
I should n't have thought of it , only he does look so -- '' `` Go on , Jake , '' Mr. Mather called out , cutting short Rose 's speech , and the next moment Annie was driving down the street in Rose Mather 's carriage , and behind p603-034 the iron greys , an honor she had never dreamed in store for her when she saw the stylish turnout passing the door of her cottage in the Hollow . 
Bright was the sun , and cloudless the sky which shone on Rockland , that spring day ; but cloudless sky nor warm spring sun could comfort the hearts about to part with their treasures , some forever , and some to meet again , but when , or where , or how , none could tell save Him who holds the secrets of the future . 
At least so Annie Graham thought , as , winding her arms around her husband 's neck , she whispered to him : `` If the body you bring back has my George 's heart within it , I shall love you just the same as I do now , '' and with her fair head lying on his bosom , Annie wept piteously . 
Not till then had she realized what it was to let him go . 
She had become somewhat accustomed to thinking of it , -- accustomed to seeing him pass in and out , dressed in his stylish uniform , which made him look so handsome , and then she had hoped the regiment would not be ordered for a long , long time , never perhaps ; but now that dream was over ; the dreaded hour had come , and for a moment Annie felt herself too weak to meet it . 
Through the livelong night she had prayed , or if perchance sleep for a moment shut the swollen lids , the lips had moved in prayer that her husband might come back to her again , or failing to do so , that he might grasp , even at the eleventh hour , the Christian 's faith , and so go to the Christian 's home , where they would meet once more . 
She had given him her little Bible , all pencil-marked and worn with daily usage , -- the one she read when first the spirit taught her the meaning of its great mysteries , -- and George had promised he would read it every day , -- had said that when he went to battle he would place it next his heart , a talisman to shield him from the bullets of the foe . 
And Annie , smiling through her tears , pointed him again to the only One who could stand between him and death , asking that when he was far away , he would remember what she said , and pray to the God she honored . 
Again the drum-beat was heard mingled with the shrill notes of the fife ; the soldiers were marching down the street , and he must go , but oh , who can tell of the love , the pain , the grief , the tears mingled with that parting , -- or the agony it cost poor Annie to take her arms from off his neck , to feel him putting her away , to hear him going from the room , across the threshold , down the walk , through the gate , and know that he was gone . 
As a child in peril instinctively turns to the mother who it knows has never failed to succor , so Annie turned to God , and with a moaning cry for help , sank on her knees just where George had left her . 
Burying her face in the lounge she prayed that He who heareth even the raven 's cry , would care for her husband , and bring him home again if that could be . 
So absorbed was she as not to hear the gate 's sharp click , nor the footstep coming up the walk . 
Impelled by something he could not resist , George had paused just by the garden fence , and yielding to the impulse which said he must see Annie 's face once more , he stole softly to the open door , and stood gazing at her as she knelt , her hands clasped together , and her face hidden from his view , as she prayed for him . 
That was what she said , and George , listening to her , felt as if it were an angel 's presence in which he stood . 
He could not disturb her . 
She was in safer hands than his , and he would rather leave her thus , -- would rather think of her when far away , just as he saw her last , kneeling in her desolation and praying for him . 
`` It will help to make me a better man , '' he said , and brushing aside the great tears swimming in his eyes , he left his angel Annie , and went on his way to battle . 
Suddenly there came to their ears the same drum-beat which had sounded so like a funeral knell to Annie Graham . 
Again the drum beat just as Annie heard it . 
It would be grand , he thought , if he could have a crown , just as the Roman victors used to do , -- it would please Annie so much to see him thus triumphant . 
She would rather be alone when she met him , while he , too , would prefer that all those people should not be looking on when he kissed his little wife . 
This reminded Rose of Annie , who had been ill most of the time since her husband 's departure . 
`` I meant to have called on Mrs. Graham right away , '' she said . 
I do n't believe Mrs. Graham loves her husband as I do you , or she would never consent to be left alone , '' and Rose nestled closer to her husband , who could not find courage to tell her what he meant to do when he handed her Tom 's letter . 
It would be too much for her to bear at once , he thought , as he saw how greatly she was pained because her brother had joined the army , and was even then in Washington . 
He was too proud for that , and she could never have forgiven him the disgrace . 
Again remembering Annie Graham , she sprang up , exclaiming to herself , `` I 'll go this very afternoon . 
and ere long Rose was picking her way daintily through the narrow street which led to the cottage in the Hollow . 
`` They have seen better days , I am sure , or else Mrs. Graham 's social position was above her husband 's , '' was Rose 's mental comment , as she lifted the gate latch and passed up the narrow walk , catching a glimpse , through the open window , of a sweet , pale face , and of a thick , stout figure , flying through the opposite door , as if anxious to avoid being seen . 
Poor Annie had been very sick , and more than once the physician who attended her had suggested sending for her husband , but Annie , though missing him sadly , and longing for him more than any one could guess , always opposed it , begging of Widow Simms , who of her own accord went to nurse her , not to write anything which would alarm him in the least . 
Annie was better now , -- was just in that state of convalescence when she found it very hard to lie all day long , watching Widow Simms as she bustled out and in , setting the chairs in a row with their six backs square against the wall , and their six fronts opposite the table , stand and bureau , also in a row . 
She was just wishing some one would come , when the swinging of the gate and the widow 's exclamation , `` Oh , the land , if that stuck up thing ai n't comin ' , '' announced the approach of Rose Mather . 
was the widow 's next comment ; and gathering up her knitting she hurried into the kitchen , leaving Annie to receive her visitor alone . 
Not waiting for her knock to be answered , Rose entered at the open door , and advanced at once into the room where Annie was , her fair hair pushed back from her forehead , her blue eyes unusually brilliant , and her face scarcely less white than the pillow on which it lay . 
Rose had an eye for the beautiful , and after the first words of greeting were over , she broke out in her impulsive way -- `` Why , Mrs. Graham , how handsome you are looking ! 
The tears came at once to Annie 's eyes , and her voice was very low as she replied : `` George does not know how sick I have been , neither do I wish to have him . 
This was a phase of unselfishness wholly new to Rose , and for an instant she was silent , then remembering Tom 's letter , she seated herself upon the foot of the bed , and throwing aside her bonnet , took the letter from her pocket , telling Annie as she did so that she , too , was now interested in the war , and in every one whose friends had gone . 
`` I never knew how it felt before , '' she said ; `` and I 've made a heap of silly speeches , I know . 
she added , as she saw how deathly pale Annie grew , while the drops of perspiration stood thickly about her lips . 
muttered Widow Simms , listening through the keyhole in the kitchen , while Annie whispered : `` Please do n't talk that way , Mrs. Mather . 
Rose saw she had done mischief again , by her thoughtless way of speaking , and eager to repair the wrong , she bent over Annie and said : `` I am sorry . 
She 's in the kitchen , I suppose , '' and ere Annie could explain , Rose had darted into the neat little kitchen where Widow Simms was stooping over the stove and kindling a fire , with which to make the evening tea . 
`` Deaf or hateful , '' was Rose 's mental comment , and as it might possibly be the former , she wished she knew the girl 's name , as that would be more apt to attract her . 
`` Most every Irish girl is Bridget , '' she thought to herself , `` and I guess this one is . 
Here 's the water , '' and filling a gourd shell she handed it to Rose , who , in her admiration of the -LRB- to her -RRB- novel drinking cup , came near forgetting Annie . 
But Annie did not care , for the rencounter between the widow and Rose had done her quite as much good as the water could , and Rose found her laughing the first really hearty laugh she had enjoyed since George went away . 
`` It 's just like me , '' Rose said , as she resumed her seat by Annie , listening intently while she told how kind the Widow Simms had been , coming every day to stay with her , and only leaving her at night because Annie insisted that she should . 
`` That 's George , you know , '' and Rose , quite as much pleased as Annie herself , nodded toward the latter , whose pale cheek flushed with pride at hearing her husband thus spoken of by Rose Mather 's brother . 
Still he does a great deal of good , Lieut. Graham tells me , by visiting the sick and sharing with them any delicacy he happens to have . 
Rose 's tears fell fast as she folded up the letter , and Annie 's kept company with them . 
There was a bond of sympathy now between the three , as they talked together of the soldiers , Mrs. Simms and Annie devising various methods by which they might be benefited , and Rose wishing she , too , could do something for them . 
They grew to liking each other very fast after this , and Rose staid until the little round table was arranged for tea and rolled to Annie 's bedside . 
It did not , however , escape Annie 's observation , but she could not feel angry with the little lady , touching her bone-handled knife as if she were afraid of it , and looking round in quest of the napkin she failed to find , for Widow Simms had banished napkins from the table as superfluous articles , which answered no earthly purpose , save the putting an extra four cents into the pocket of the washerwoman , Harry Baker 's mother . 
It was growing late , and the sunset shadows were already creeping into the Hollow when Rose bade Annie good-bye , promising to come again ere long , and wondering , as she took her homeward way , whence came the calm , quiet peace which made Annie Graham so happy , even though her husband were far away in the midst of danger and death . 
Rose had heard that Annie was a Christian , and so were many others whom she knew , but they were much like herself , -- good , well-meaning people , amiable , and submissive when everything went to suit them , but let their husbands once join the army and they would make quite as much fuss as she , who did not profess to be anything . 
And then , for the first time in her life , Rose wished she , too , could learn from Annie 's teacher , and so have something to sustain her in case her husband should go . 
But he would n't go , -- and if he did , all the religion in the world could not make her resigned , -- and the tears sprang to Rose 's eyes as she hurried up the handsome walk to the piazza , where Willsat smoking his cigar in the hazy twilight . 
She told him where she had been , and then sitting upon his knee told him of Annie , wishing she could be like her , and asking if he did not wish so too . 
There was a cry of horror , and Rose hid her face in her husband 's bosom . 
and Rose nestled closer to him , holding his hands just as Annie Graham had once held her husband 's . 
`` You could not be much better , neither could I love you more than I do now , Rosa , darling , '' Mr. Mather replied , kissing her childish brow . 
The sudden lifting of Rose 's head , and her look of perplexed inquiry , showed that notwithstanding the fanciful ornament styled a Diplomalying in her writing-desk , Sardanapalus had not the honor of being numbered among her acquaintances . 
But her heart was too full to ask an explanation , and her husband continued : `` Besides that , there was a mutual understanding between Tom and myself , that if one went the other would , and he has gone , -- nobly laying aside all the party prejudice which for a time influenced his conduct . 
cried Rose , the insane idea flashing upon her that she would at once adopt a score or more of those she had seen playing in the muddy Hollow that afternoon . 
There was a wide difference between Rose and Annie Graham , for while the latter , in her sweet unselfishness , thought only of her husband 's welfare , both here and hereafter , Rose 's first impulse was a dread shrinking from being alone , and her second a terror lest the years of her youth , now spread out so invitingly before her , should be passed in secluded widowhood , with nothing from the gay world without wherewith to feed her vanity and love for admiration . 
If she could only go to Washington with Will it would not be half so bad , but she could not , for she waked Will up from a sound sleep to ask him if she might , and he had answered `` No , '' falling away again to sleep , and leaving Rose to wakefulness and tears , unmingled with any prayer that the cloud gathering so fast around her might sometime break in blessings on her head . 
It was scarcely light next morning when Rose , determining to prevail , redoubled her entreaties for her husband to abandon the decision he now candidly acknowledged , but she could not . 
Rose almost fainted when he told her this , and for a time refused to be comforted . 
She might learn to bear it , she said , if he were an officer , but to go as a common soldier , like those she worked for at the Hall , was more than she could bear . 
It was in vain that Mr. Mather told her how only a few could be officers , and that he was content to serve his country in any capacity , leaving the more lucrative situations to those who needed them more . 
He did not tell her he had declined a post of honor , for the sake of one who seemed to him more worthy of it . 
He would rather this should reach her from some other source , and ere the day was over it did , for in a small town like Rockland it did not take long for every other one to know that William Mather had enlisted as a private soldier , when he might have been Colonelof a regiment , had he not given place to another because that other had depending on him a bed-ridden mother , a crazy wife , and six little helpless children . 
Even the Widow Simms ventured to the Mather mansion , telling her how glad she was , and offering to do what she could for the volunteer , while Annie , unable to do anything for herself , could only pray that God would bring Mr. Mather back safely to the childwife , who was so bowed down with grief . 
How Annie longed to see her , -- and , if possible , impart to her some portion of the hopeful trust which kept her own soul from fainting beneath its burden of anxious uncertainty . 
Love for her husband had triumphed over every other feeling , and rousing from her state of inertness , she busied herself in doing , or rather trying to do , a thousand little things which she fancied might add to Willie ` scomfort . 
She called him Willienow , as if that name were dearer , tenderer than Will , and the strong man , every time he heard it , felt a sore pang , -- there was something so plaintive in the tone , as if she were speaking of the dead . 
It was a most beautiful summer day , when at last he left her , and Rose 's heart was well nigh bursting with its load of pain . 
It was all in vain that she said her usual form of prayer , never more meaningless than now when her thoughts were so wholly absorbed with something else . 
She did not pray in faith , but because it was a habit of her childhood , a something she rarely omitted , unless in too great a hurry . 
No wonder then that she rose up from her devotion quite as grief-stricken as when she first knelt down . 
The parting was terrible , and Mr. Mather more than half repented when he saw how tightly she clung to his neck , begging him to take her with him , or at least to send for her very soon . 
she sobbed , and her husband answered : `` You can work for me , darling , -- work for all the soldiers . 
And then she threw herself with a wild scream of joy into the arms which had cradled her babyhood , sobbing piteously : `` Oh , mother , mother , Willie has gone to the war ! 
It was very strange , Rose thought , that her mother 's tears should flow so fast , and her face wear so sad an expression just because of Will , who was nothing but her son-in-law . 
Then it occurred to her that Tom might be the occasion of her sadness , but when she spoke of him , asking why her mother had not prevailed on him to stay at home , Mrs. Carleton answered , promptly : `` I never loved him one-half so well , as on that night when he told me he had volunteered . 
Then sitting down by Rose she told her Annie had sent her there . 
`` She 's sorry for you , '' the widow said , `` and she sent this to tell you so , '' and the widow handed Rose a tiny note , written by Annie Graham . 
Once Rose would have resented the act as implying too much familiarity , but her heart was greatly softened , while , had she tried her best , she could not have regarded Annie Graham in the light of an inferior . 
Tearing open the envelope she read : `` My dear Mrs. Mather -- I am sure you will pardon the liberty I am taking . 
Rose had not wept more passionately than she did now , as she kissed the note , and wished she were one half as good as Annie Graham . 
`` But I am not , '' she said , `` and never shall be . 
Tell her to keep praying until Will comes home again . '' 
`` I will tell her , '' returned the widow , `` but would n't it be well enough to try what you can do at it yourself , and not leave it all for her ? '' 
Annie was no lover of gossip , and knowing that the widow was terribly excited , she made no reply except to pass her a letter bearing the Washington postmark . 
`` Every family must have a black sheep , '' she said to Annie , though where hers was she could not tell . 
This was the old Adam counselling within her , while the new Adam said , `` Better never to be promoted than lose his integrity , '' and with a silent prayer for the boy who would not tell a lie , the widow folded up the letter , and then repeated to Annie the particulars of Jimmie Carleton in a much milder manner than she would have done an hour before . 
This , together with a little judicious caution from Annie , changed her tactics , and though she , that very night , had several opportunities for telling how `` Miss Martherses brother was a rebel , and that Miss Marthers could n't see the mighty harm in it if he was , '' she kept it to herself , speaking only of the noble Tom , so kind to her boy Isaac . 
THE next morning the Mather carriage , containing both Mrs. Carleton and Rose , drove down the Hollow , and stopped in front of Annie 's gate . 
She should do it , anyway , on her own responsibility , if nobody chose to help her , and she whispered to Annie that George should have a large share of the delicacies she would provide . 
`` You may send that candy to Tom , if you choose , '' she said to the widow , `` though I think cod liver oil would be better . 
Rose had found something to do , and so absorbed was she in a plan which every one approved , that she forgot to cry allthe time for Will , as she had fully intended doing . 
Up the streets and down she went , sometimes walking , sometimes riding , but always in a flurry , always excited , now tumbling over dry-goods boxes in quest of one large enough to hold the many articles preparing in Rockland for the then ill-fed , suffering soldiers of the 13th Regiment , now up at the express office , bargaining about the expense , which she meant to bear herself , and now down at the Hall , adroitly smoothing over little bickerings frequently arising among the ladies assembled there , concerning the articles sent in , some declaring the fried apple pies brought by Mrs. Baker should not go , nor yet the round balls of Dutch cheese she had saved sour milk two weeks to make , just because `` Billy relished it so much , ` long with apple turnovers . '' 
Of course Willand Tomfared the best , while next to them came Lieutenant Graham and Isaac Simms , Rose writing a tiny note to the latter , telling him how much she liked him for speaking so of Tom , and sending him a pair of her fine linen sheets , because she could n't think of anything else , and thought these would be cool to sleep in on hot summer nights . 
how fast she grew in popularity , the people wondering they had never seen before how good she was , and imputing some portion of her present interest to the presence of her mother , who had made arrangements to remain for an indefinite length of time in Rockland , and who , far less demonstrative than her active daughter , did much by her sensible advice to keep the wheel in motion , and Rose from overdoing the matter so zealously taken in hand . 
That letter was a mammoth undertaking , but the widow felt it her duty to write it , groaning and sweating , and consulting Perry 's old leathern-bound dictionary for every word of which she felt at all uncertain , and driving poor Annie nearly distracted with asking `` if this were grammar , and if that were too lovin ' like , for a widder to send a widower . '' 
Not a little amused , Annie gave the required advice , smiling in spite of herself , as she read the note the widow handed her , and which ran as follows : `` My dear Mr. Captin Carleton : -- I ca n't help puttin ' dearbefore your name , you seem so nigh to me since Isaac told how kind you was to him . 
Harry 's mother and Bill 's , and others of her standing , blessed the little lady , for the sunshine brought so often to their squalid homes , while Annie and Widow Simms prayed from a full heart that no evil should befall the husband or the brother of the heroic Rose . 
He had prayed that morning in the clear moonlight , and by the same moonlight he had tried to read a line in Annie 's well-worn Bible , opening to where God promises to care for the widow and the fatherless . 
He could not die with Annie at home alone , so he buttoned her Bible over his heart , and prayed that if a bullet struck him it might be there , fondly hoping that would break its force . 
Steady in its place George Graham 's giant form was seen ; no thought of Annie now ; no thought of home ; no thought of Bible buttoned over the heart ; thoughts only of the fray and victory . 
Onward , onward they pressed , Isaac wondering sometimes how Tom Carleton fared , and looking again in quest of their young Lieutenant Graham , still towering above them all , in spite of Rose 's prediction . 
was the next remark , prompted by a thought of Annie . 
He did not think of Annie , until Isaac , bending down , said , entreatingly : `` It will be horrid for Annie to know you died , when you might have got away . 
Try for Annie 's sake , ca n't you ? '' 
Yes , for Annie 's sake he could , and at the mere menof her name , the dim eye kindled , and the pale cheeks glowed , while the wounded man made another effort to rise . 
They would not murder a wounded man , he was sure , but they might take him prisoner , and death itself was almost preferable to days of captivity and sickening suspense away from Annie . 
The vehicle was stopped , and the next instant Tom had leaped upon the ground , spraining his ankle severely , and reeling in his first pain against the astounded Isaac , who cried out , joyfully : `` Oh , Captain Carleton , save Lieutenant Graham , wo n't you ? 
She had taken Annie Graham to ride with her , and the two presented a most striking contrast , for where Rose was nervous , impatient and excited , Annie , though feeling none the less concerned , was quiet , submissive and resigned , exhibiting no outward emotion until the shrill whistle was heard across the plain , when a crimson flush stole into her cheek , deepening into a purple as the carriage drew up in front of the office , where the throng was growing denser , -- men pushing past each other , and elbowing their way to a stand-point near the door , where they could catch the first item of news , and scatter it among the eager crowd . 
Annie whispered faintly . 
Her interest just then was centered in the `` Massachusetts -- , '' and in her eagerness to hear from Tom , she forgot for a moment that such a regiment as the N. Y. 13th existed . 
But there were others who did not forget , and just as the question left Annie 's lips , the answer came in the despairing cry which rent the air as some reckless person shouted aloud , `` The 13th a total wreck ! 
Not a man left of Company R. '' `` Oh , George , '' poor Annie cried , and the next moment Rose held the fainting form upon her lap . 
`` Drive home , -- to Mrs. Graham 's I mean , '' she said to Jake , who with some difficulty made his way through the crowd , but not until the story so cruelly set afloat was contradicted by those who had more coolly read the sad intelligence . 
Isaac was last seen leading Lieut. Graham from the field . '' 
Oh what a piteous wail went up to Heaven then , for Widow Simms , when she received the news , was sitting in Annie 's door , and Annie was kneeling at her side . 
George was wounded , of course , and if wounded , dead , else why had he not thought of her ere this ? 
Locked in each other 's arms the two stricken women wept bitterly , the mother sobbing amid her tears , `` My boy , my boy , '' while Annie moaned sadly , `` My George , my husband . '' 
Annie was the first to rally . 
`` It might not after all be so bad , '' she said . 
Thus Annie reasoned , and the widow felt herself grow stronger as hope whispered of a brighter day to-morrow . 
To Annie it was brighter , for it brought her news of George , wounded in his right arm , an inmate of the hospital , and at present too weak to write . 
He might come home again , and Annie 's heart overflowed with grateful thanksgiving that while so many were bereaved of their loved ones she had been mercifully spared . 
The next mail brought her a second letter from Mr. Mather , more minute in its particulars than any which had preceded it . 
He had obtained permission to stay with George , had removed him to a private boarding-house , far more comfortable than the crowded hospital ; and , at his request he wrote to Annie that her husband , though badly wounded and suffering much from the terrible excitement of the battle , was not thought dangerous , and had strong hopes of ere long receiving his discharge , and returning home where she could nurse him back to life . 
This was Annie 's message , read by her eagerly , while the Widow Simms , forgetting all formality in her anxiety to hear if there was aught concerning her boy , looked over her shoulder , her eye darting from line to line until she caught his name.There was something of him , and grasping Annie 's arm , she whispered , `` Read what it says of Isaac . '' 
And Annie read how brave Tom Carleton had generously given place to the poor wounded George , and staid behind him with Isaac , hoping to make his way to Washington in safety . 
Read it , Miss Graham , '' and tossing the letter into Annie 's lap , the wretched woman sank upon the door-step , and covering her face with her wet apron , rocked back and forth , while Annie read aloud as follows : `` Dear Mother : We 've met the rascals , and been as genteelly licked as ever a pack of fools could ask to be . 
Now that she knew the worst the widow sat like one stunned by a heavy blow , uttering no sound , as Annie read Bill 's account of capturing his prisoner . 
Ere she reached this point , however , she had another auditor , Rose Mather , who had come with a second letter from her husband , and who , passing the weeping woman in the door , came and stood by Annie , and listened with strange interest to the story of that captive parting so willingly with everything save the picture . 
she sighed , when Annie finished reading . 
Now , as ever , Annie was the first to speak of hope , and her words were fraught with comfort to all save Harry 's mother . 
She could not comfort her , for from reckless , misguided Harry 's grave , there came no ray of consolation , but to the others she spoke of One who would not desert the weary captives . 
For a long time they talked together , and the afternoon was half spent when at last they separated , Rose going back to her luxurious home where she wrote to her mother the sad news concerning Tom , blurring with great tears the line in which she spoke of Jimmie , wondering what his fate had been . 
Annie saw her , too , and while Rose , touched with the humble attempt she had made to put on something like mourning for her child , thought how she would give her an entire new suit of black , Annie thought how she would daily pray that the blow which had fallen so crushingly might result in everlasting good to the now stricken mother . 
At Annie 's request she had at last come to live altogether at the cottage in the Hollow , and it was well for both that they should be together , for the widow 's stronger will upheld the weaker Annie , who , in her turn , imparted much of her own trusting , childish faith to the less trusting widow . 
Greatly Annie mourned as the days went on , because no line came to her from George himself , nothing in his own handwriting , when he knew how she desired it , if it were but just his name . 
Annie put this question once to Rose , but the twilight was gathering over them , and so she failed to see the heightened color on Rose 's cheek and the moisture in her eye . 
Rose did not now , as formerly , bring her William 's letters , and read to her every word he said of George . 
She only told her how cheerfully George bore his illness , and how Will read to him every day from Annie 's Bible , choosing always the passages she had marked , but the rest was all withheld and Annie never dreamed the reason , or of the effort it cost the talkative little Rose to keep back what William said she must until the worst were known . 
Thus the August days glided by , one by one , until the summer light faded from the Rockland hills , and September threw over them her rich autumnal bloom , and then one day there came a note for Annie , written as of old by William Mather , but signed by George himself . 
Poor Annie , how she cried over and kissed that signature , to which George had added , `` God bless you , darling Annie . '' 
Every letter was unnaturally distorted , and few could have deciphered the words ; but to the eye of love they were plain as noonday , and Annie 's kisses dropped upon them until they were still more blurred than when they came to her . 
It was very hard for Rose to keep from telling the dreadful story of what had followed the penning of those brief words , `` God bless you , darling Annie . '' 
But Will had said she must not , so she made no sign , only her arms p603-133 clung closer around Annie 's neck , and her lips lingered longer upon the snowy forehead as she said good night , and went away with the secret which Annie must not know then . 
Was n't it better to die than go back to Annie maimed and disfigured for life ? 
Would Annie love him just the same , even though the strong right arm , which had toiled for her so cheerfully , could never work for her again ; never encircle her in its embrace ? 
Would the scarred stump be as dear to her as the well-moulded limb had been ? 
Would the delicate Annie he had meant to shield so carefully from every ill of life , yet be compelled to earn the bread she ate ? 
when there came stealing across his mind the memory of Annie 's parting words , `` If the body you bring back has in it my George 's heart , I shall love you all the same . '' 
Yes , she would love him just the same , for , as it was not her fair , sweet face alone which made her so dear to him , so it was not his splendid form which made him dear to her . 
Annie 's love would not abate , even though he went back to her the veriest cripple that ever crawled the earth . 
He was not prepared ; and forcing back the bitter tears , he turned his white , worn face to William Mather , bending so sadly over him , and whispered : `` Tell them they may cut it off , but not till you 've written to Annie , and I have signed my name . 
You know how she has begged for a word from me . 
Tell them to keep away ; they shall not intrude on my interview with Annie . '' 
George was growing excited , but he became calm again when he found himself alone with Mr. Mather , who wrote the letter which gave Annie so much joy . 
There was nothing in it of the expected amputation ; nothing but encouragement that he should ere long come home to stay with her always . 
he whispered , nerving himself with might and main , and then , with Mr. Mather guiding his hand , he wrote his name , and the words , `` God bless you , darling Annie ! '' 
`` Bring Annie 's Bible , '' he said , `` and lay it on my pillow . 
Oh , Annie , Annie , if you could be here to pray for me ! 
`` You 'll need bandages , '' he said , his mind flashing backward to the day when he had looked in at Rockland Hall , where Annie , with others , sat working for just such a scene as this . 
It 's your Annie , George . 
Was it a happen so , or a special providence that this bit of linen , over which Annie 's prayers had been breathed , should come at last to him for whom it was intended ? 
`` Yes , Annie , I know you are here . 
There was a moment 's silence , a shutting of both William 's and George 's eyes , and a shriek of anguish rang through the room as George cried out , `` Oh , Annie , Annie , stand up closer to me , -- it makes me faint , it hurts me so bad ! 
Carefully they bound up the bleeding stump with the soft linen Annie had sent , speaking comforting words to the sufferer , who seemed to be stupefied , for he did not notice what they said . 
He would not have Annie know it yet , he said . 
He would rather spare her as long as possible , and so the news was withheld from her , while day after day George waited and watched for the favorable change which should make it safe for him to undertake the tedious journey . 
He was only tired ; he had never been rested since the battle , he said , and if he could once go home to Annie , and lie upon the lounge , where he last saw her kneeling , he should get well so fast . 
Often in his troubled sleep he talked of her , begging her not to spurn her poor , crippled husband , but to love him just the same . 
Hour after hour he sat by his patient , reading to him from Annie 's well-worn Bible , and when at last the heavy cloud was lifted , and the pathway through the valley of death was divested of its gloom , he was the first to whom the sick man imparted the joyful news , that whether he lived or died , all was well , -- all was peace within . 
In silence and in tears Mr. Mather listened to the story of what was so strange to him , and in the next letter sent to Rose , he told her of the new resolves awakened within him , tracing them back to that humble cottage in the Hollow , where Annie Graham , unknown , save to a few , was wielding a mighty power for good . 
Everything which he could do for George he did , and Annie herself could scarcely have been more gentle or kind ; and George , -- oh how grateful he was to his noble friend , blessing him so often for the kindly deeds . 
I shall never be better until I wake in Heaven , -- shall never go back to Annie , -- never see my old home again . 
It is a humble home , Mr. Mather , but you ca n't begin to guess how dear it is to me , because it is the spot where I brought Annie after she was mine . 
True it is that mortal man never loved a creature better than I have loved my Annie . 
She was of gentler blood than I , -- was far more delicately reared , and I know it was an unequal match . 
She was far above me in social position . 
Highly educated and accomplished , too ; she was a belle and favorite everywhere , while I was only George Graham , -- a mechanic and engineer . 
She kept nothing from me , and she told me of a childish fancy when she was a mere girl of fourteen , but if she ever sent a regret after the handsome , black-eyed boy , -- the object of that fancy , -- it was not perceptible to me . 
Still , I think that may have had its influence , -- that , and the fact that her life was very wretched with her proud , hard aunt , on whom she was dependent , and who wanted her to marry a white-haired millionaire . 
But Annie chose me , and I have worshipped her with an idolatry which I know was sinful in the sight of Heaven , who will have the first place in our hearts . 
I have told you all this because your wife has been a friend to Annie , and I want her to know that Annie is her equal , if she did marry a poor mechanic . 
It matters little what becomes of the body after the soul has left it , though I should rather lie in Rockland graveyard , where Annie can sometimes come to see me , and I do so want to hear her voice once p603-141 more before I go , -- to tell her with my own lips that if in Heaven I find a place , she has led me there . '' 
`` Suppose we send for her , '' Mr. Mather said , the glad thought flashing upon his mind of the joy it would be to see his own darling once more , for if Annie came , Rose , he knew , was sure to come also . 
`` I 'll send for both Annie and Rose at once . 
Mr. Graham made no objection , and Mr. Mather set himself to the task of writing the letter , which he hoped was to bring not only Annie , but his own precious Rose . 
`` Do n't say a word about my arm.I 'd rather tell her myself . 
She wo n't mind it so much when she sees how sick and weak I am , '' George suggested ; and so Mr. Mather bade Rose keep the amputation to herself as heretofore . 
You see George is a great deal , -- George ca n't , -- well , George is n't very well ; '' and quite delighted with the happy turn she had given her words , Rose skipped around Annie 's cottage like a bird , lighting at last upon a stool at Annie 's feet , and asking if she were not glad . 
she , exclaimed , as she observed the paleness of Annie 's cheek . 
Annie was not deceived by Rose 's abrupt turn . 
She knew that George was worse , else he had never sent for her : and hence the sudden faintness , which Rose 's gay badinage could not shake off at once . 
she asked , and Rose replied , `` Will , of course . 
`` Yes , I know ; '' and in Annie 's voice there was a tone approaching nearer to bitterness than any that Rose had ever heard from her . 
But Rose had found it convenient to leave the letter at home , and so she answered , `` I did not bring it with me . 
and Annie grasped her shoulder firmly . 
There was a look in the blue eyes before which Rose fairly quailed , and turning her face away she answered truthfully , `` Yes , George is very sick . 
poor Annie wondering if it could be George who was meant . 
Hadthe evil she most dreaded come upon her at last ? 
Must she give her husband up and live without him ? 
How dark , how cheerless the future looked , stretching before her through many years it might be ! 
It was Annie 's darkest hour of trial , and for a moment the spirit fainted , refusing to bear the load which , though more than half-expected , had come so sudden at the last . 
But Annie was not one to murmur long , and Rose Mather never forgot the sweet submissive smile which played over her white face as she said , `` Whether George lives or dies , God will do all things well . '' 
After this there was no more repining , no more bitterness of tone , nothing save humble submission to whatever might be in store for her . 
Rose was very enthusiastic on the subject of the Washington trip , and Annie listened eagerly to her suggestions . 
Rose asked eagerly , forgetting Washington in her anxiety to hear from her brother , of whom not one word had been known after his name had appeared in the paper as one of the prisoners at Richmond , together with that of a boy called `` Isaac Simpson . '' 
It would be grander , she thought , to have a woman from Boston , but then Mrs. Simms wanted to go so badly , while Annie , too , preferred her , she was sure . 
So it was settled that as soon as the necessary arrangements could be made , Mrs. Simms , Annie and Rose were to start for the Federal Capital . 
To all these directions the widow gravely promised compliance , saying , in an aside to Annie , `` It does me good to see the little critter patternize me , as if she s ` posed I was a tarnal fool , and did n't know a steam locofocofrom a canal boat . '' 
Rose 's three trunks , of the size which makes the porters swear , were packed to their utmost capacity , for Rose meant to make a winter 's campaign , and display her numerous dresses at parties and levees . 
So everything which she could possibly and impossibly need , even to her skating dress , was stowed away in the huge boxes , together with various luxuries for her husband and George , and then , as the afternoon was drawing to a close , she started for the cottage in the Hollow , to see that everything there was in readiness . 
On Annie 's face there was a hopeful , expectant expression , which told how glad she was at the prospect of meeting her husband so soon . 
`` Two days more and I shall see him , '' she thought , picturing to herself the meeting , and fancying what she would do , what she would say , and how carefully she would nurse him when once she was there with him . 
It was a bright picture she drew of that meeting with her husband , -- of the kisses , the caresses , she would lavish upon him , and she was almost as impatient as Rose herself to have the November day come to an end , knowing that with the darkness she was nearer to the asked-for to-morrow . 
Just as the sun was setting , Rose took her leave , saying , as she bade Annie good-bye , `` I mean to drive round by the depot and get the tickets to-night , so as to save time in the morning . '' 
Annie smiled at the little lady 's restlessness , and after kissing her good-night , stood by the window watching her , as she drove down the street , and thinking to herself , `` When I see her again it will be to-morrow . '' 
Rapidly Rose Mather 's iron greys bore her to the depot , where but a few idlers were lounging , as it was past the hour for the cars . 
The ticket agent had gone to his tea , and with a feeling of dissatisfaction Rose was turning away , when a sharp , clicking sound from an adjoining apartment reached her ear , and stepping to the open door , she stood looking in , while the telegraphic operator received a communication . 
Rose wished she knew , and she was about to inquire , when the operator turned upon her , and asked if she knew Mrs. Graham , wife of the Lieutenant ? 
she answered , grasping the now written message , which the agent handed her , saying : `` Break it to her as gently as possible . 
There was no need for Rose to open the envelope , for she knew well enough what it contained , but her fingers mechanically tore it apart , and with streaming eyes she read the fatal message which would break poor Annie 's heart . 
`` Oh , I cannottell her , '' she cried , sinking down upon the hard settee , and sobbing bitterly . 
But it must be done , and summoning all her courage she bade Jake drive back to the Hollow , shivering as she saw the cheerful light shining from the window , and shrinking more and more from the task imposed upon her , when , as she drew nearer , she saw Annie 's bright , joyous face as she put together the garments for to-morrow , pausing occasionally to speak to Widow Simms , who sat before the blazing fire , dreaming visions of what might be could she but get a pass to Richmond ! 
Annie thought she did , and going to window she saw Rose as she came up she walk . 
`` Why , it 's Mrs. Mather , '' she cried . 
and hastening to the door she led Rose in , asking why she was there . 
`` Oh , Annie , '' Rose replied , winding her arms around Annie 's neck , `` I wish I did not have to tell , but I must , and I know it will kill you dead . 
and Rose thrust the dispatch into the hands of the bewildered Annie , who clutched it eagerly , and bending to the lamplight , read what Rose had read before her . 
It came to her like a thunderbolt , striking all the deeper because it found her so full of eager expectation ; and the November wind , as it swept past the door , and down the lonely Hollow , took with it one wailing cry of anguish , and then all was still within the cottage , save the sobbing whispers of Widow Simms and Rose bending over the unconscious form which lay upon the bed , so white and still that a terrible fear entered the hearts of both lest the stricken Annie , too , were dead . 
They were white now as the wintry snow which covers the Northern hills , and the breath came feebly from between them , as the sick man whispered faintly : `` I shall not be here if Annie comes , for when the drum beats on the morrow , calling my comrades to their daily drill , I shall be far away where sounds of battle were never heard but once . 
`` You ca n't tell Annie all , '' George whispered , looking fondly up into the face he had learned to love so well . 
The writing utensils were brought , and then sitting where George could look into his face , Mr. Mather wrote as the dying man dictated : My dear , dear , darling Annie : -- It will be days , perhaps , before you see this letter , and ere it reaches you somebody will have told you that your poor George is dead ! 
Do n't cry , my precious Annie . 
We shall meet again in Heaven , Annie , -- meet where partings are unknown . 
I knowI shall be there , Annie . 
God bless you , Annie darling , and grant that as you have guided me , so you may guide others to that home above , where I am going so fast . 
Never , never , was year so happy as the one I spent with you , my darling , darling Annie , and I was looking forward to many such , but God has decreed it otherwise , and what he does we know is right . 
`` Annie , had I lived , I never could have toiled for you as I once did , for where the right arm , which has held your light form so often , used to be , there is nothing now but a scarred stump , and this is why I have not written . 
Do n't , Annie . 
I was too proud of my figure , Annie , and the thought that you might love me less when you knew how maimed I was , hurt more than the cold , sharp steel , cutting into my throbbing flesh . 
`` And now , dear Annie , I come to the hardest part of all . 
Listen to me , Annie . 
You are young and beautiful , and though you do not believe it now , the time will surely come when my grave will not be visited as often as at first , and the flowers you will plant above me when next spring 's sun is shining will wither for want of care , and the rank grass growing there will not be trodden down by your dear little feet , for they will be waiting by another fireside than ours in the Hollow , and my Annie will bear another name than mine . 
`` I am almost done now , Annie . 
Always respect William Mather , Annie , for what he has been to me . 
So long as I have a home , Annie shall not suffer . 
Rose 's love was given to her long ago and mine will follow soon . 
She shall be a sister to us both . '' 
You 'll forgive me , I know , that I ever thought you proud , for I did , and sometimes there was a bitter feeling in my heart when I saw your Rose surrounded with every luxury , and thought of Annie , as highly educated as she , taking a far lower place in Rockland , because her husband was a mechanic . 
Women feel this more than men , and again I bless you for the care promised my Annie . 
I do not ask that you should take her to your home as you suggest . 
You 'll think differently of that bye and by , but see that she does not want ; see that no winter night shall find her hungry , no winter morning cold . 
Oh , Annie , Annie , that you should ever come to this ! '' 
The mind began to wander , and was in fancy back again at the cottage in the Hollow , where the soldier clasped his Annie to his bosom , begging of her in piteous tones not to love him less because he was a cripple . 
Did you hear the battle , Annie , -- hear the cannon 's bellowing thunder as it echoed through the Virginia woods ? 
Oh , Annie , pray for the poor soldier , -- everybody pray . 
Annie , darling , I am almost home ; so near that I can see the pearly gates which stand open night and day . 
`` Willhad staid by George , '' she said , `` and she should stay by Annie . '' 
With her sitting by , Annie grew stronger , and could at last talk calmly of what was expected on the morrow . 
`` It will be terrible , '' she said , `` to hear the tramp of feet coming up the walk , and know they are bringing George ! 
Annie did not mean to be selfish . 
She was too much benumbed to realize anything fully , and she never thought what it would cost Rose to stay there , knowing her husband would seek her at home , and be so disappointed at not finding her there . 
Rose could not refuse a request so touchingly made , but just as the morning broke she went home for a few moments to see that all necessary preparations were made for Will 's comfort ; then , penning him a note to tell why she was not there to meet him , she returned again to the cottage , where Widow Simms was busily at work setting things to rights for the expected arrival , her tears falling upon the furniture she was dusting , and her chest heaving with sobs as she heard in the distance the sound of a gathering crowd , and thought , `` It may be my boy they 'll go up next to meet . '' 
Poor Annie , too , shuddered and moaned as she caught the ominous sounds , and knew what they portended . 
`` It would be better to bring him back quietly , '' she said . 
I may be glad , by and by , that they honored him thus , but it 's so hard now , '' and covering her head with her pillow , Annie wept silently as she heard the mournful beat of the muffled drum , and knew the march to the depot had commenced . 
How Rose wanted to be in the street and see her husband when he came ; but with heroic self-denial , she forced down every longing to be away , and sitting down by Annie , busied herself with counting off the minutes and wondering if the clock would ever point to half-past ten , or the train ever arrive . 
Slowly through the November rain , -- through the November sleet , and through the November mist they bore him on through the streets which he so oft had trodden ; on past the cottage he meant to buy for poor Annie , whispering to herself with every note of the tolling bell , `` George has gone to Heaven . '' 
Four weeks after George 's death , Annie left the cottage in the Hollow , and went to live for a time with Mrs. Mather . 
Early orphaned , and thrown upon the charities of a scheming aunt , who , after her marriage with George , had cast her off entirely , there was now no one to whom she could look for help and sympathy save Rose , and when the latter insisted that her home should be Annie 's also , while William , too , joined his entreaties with those of his wife , and urged as one reason his promise made to George , Annie consented on condition that as soon as her health was sufficiently restored , she should do something for herself , either as teacher , or governess in some private family . 
Amid a wild storm of sobs and tears she had read her husband 's dying message , growing sick and faint just as he knew she would when first she learned of his loss , and why it was he had never written to her himself . 
But this was naught compared to the horror which crept round her heart as she read what George had written of a coming time when the long grave by the gate would not be visited as often as at first , or he who slept there remembered as tearfully . 
she cried , `` it was cruel to tell me so , '' and sinking to her knees , she essayed to breathe a vow that other love than that she had borne for George Graham should never find entrance to her bosom . 
But something sealed her lips , -- the words she would have uttered were unspoken , and the rash vow was not made . 
Still there was an added drop to her already brimming cup of sorrow , and a sadder , more loving note in the tone of her voice when she spoke of her husband , as if she would fortify herself against the possibility of his prediction coming true . 
It was a sorry day when she finally left her cottage home , and only God was witness to the parting ; but the dim , swollen eyes and colorless cheeks attested to its bitterness , as , with one great upheaving sob , she crossed the threshold and entered the carriage where Rose sat waiting for her , while the motherly Widow Simms wrapped around her the pile of shawls which were to shield her from the cold , and bade her god-speed to her new home . 
And the busy tide of life rolled on in Rockland just the same as if in the churchyard there was no new-made grave , holding the buried love of Annie , who , in Rose Mather 's beautiful home , was surrounded with every p603-164 possible comfort and luxury , and treated with as much consideration as if she were a born princess , instead of the humble woman , who , a few months before , was wholly unknown to the little lady of the Mather Mansion . 
This was hardly the right kind of spirit for the widow to take to church , but hers was a peculiar nature , and the grace which would have sufficed to make Annie Graham an angel , would hardly have kept her from boiling over at the most trivial matter . 
Rose Mather was there as usual , but she knelt in her handsome pew alone , for Will had been gone from her two whole weeks , and Annie was still too much of an invalid to venture out . 
With others at the door she heard of the intruder , and after asking a few questions she had passed into the aisle , with a certain wise air about her , as if she knew something which she should not tell ! 
As one after another came in , it might have been observed that she turned often and curiously toward the door , glancing occasionally at the spot where Mrs. Baker , now a regular attendant , was in the habit of sitting . 
She was not there to-day , a fact which no one observed save Rose and the Widow Simms , the latter of whom only noticed it because Annie , she knew , was deeply interested in the repentant woman . 
Annie Graham had said there were no such messa ges sent to us , and Annie was always right ; so the frightened woman listened again until the rattling of the latch , and a feeble , timid knock told her there was more than the winter wind or spirits of the dead about her house that night . 
That he had come she was certain , and telling Annie where she was going , she had started rather early for Mrs. Baker 's . 
Rose , however , quieted her fears at once by telling her she had known for some days past of Bill 's desertion , and had kept it from every one but Annie , because her husband thought it best . 
She did not believe he would be followed , she said , for Will wrote that he had become so reckless and discontented that his absence was no loss to the army , but for a while it might be well that his presence should not be known in Rockland , as the people might be indignant at a deserter , and perhaps in their excitement do him some injury . 
`` He ought to have medical advice , though , '' she added , `` for I think he 's very sick . '' 
It was nearly noon ere he arrived , and in the meantime Rose had reported the case to Annie , and then returning to Mrs. Baker 's , took her place by Billy , who called her `` his little Rebel , '' and ordered her about as if he had been a commanding officer , and she his subordinate . 
He says I 'm doing right , and Annie Graham , too . '' 
And so , with her heart kept brave by thinking that Will and Annie approved her course , Rose went every day to Mrs. Baker 's , doing more by her cheerful presence and the needful comforts she supplied to arrest the progress of the disease and effect a favorable change , than all the physicians in the county could have done . 
`` I ca n't stay any longer to-day , '' she said , as she heard Mrs. Baker at the door , and bidding Bill good-bye , she hurried home , where , after a long passionate flood of tears , wept in Annie 's lap , she wrote to her mother and husband both , telling them where Jimmie was , and begging of the former to come at once and go with her to Washington . 
THAT night , as Rose sat alone in her cheerful boudoir , musing upon the strange events which had occurred within the last few months , a letter was brought to her , bearing her mother 's handwriting . 
Intuitively she felt that it was from Jimmie , and catching it up , she read the home-sick , heart-sick , remorseful cry of penitence and contrition which the weary Rebel-boy had at last sent to his mother . 
No wonder Rose wept tears of joy over his letter , while her thoughts went after her rebellious , but repentant brother , nor tarried there , for , farther to the South , another weary captive pined , and every fibre of her heart bleed with sympathy for Tom -- poor Tom , she always called him -- and as the days of sickening suspense went by she grew so nervous and so ill that her mother came up from Boston to attend her , while Annie shook off her own feelings of weary languor , and did for Rose the same offices which Rose had once done for her . 
Annie made no reply , except to twine around her fingers the coils of chestnut hair , lying in such profusion upon the pillows . 
For a few moments Rose lay perfectly still , with her eyes fixed upon the paper bordering , as if counting the fanciful flowers , but her thoughts were intent upon a far different subject . 
Turning to her mother , she suddenly asked : `` How oldis Jimmie , twenty-three , or twenty-four ? '' 
`` Twenty-three last May , '' was the reply , and , with rather a troubled expression upon her face , Rose continued , `` Willis thirteenyears older than I am , '' and the little curly head shook doubtfully . 
Glancing quickly at Annie , who was attentively examining the hem-stitch of the fine linen pillow-case , Mrs. Carleton said , reprovingly : `` You should not parade our family matters before strangers , my daughter . '' 
`` Oh , Annie is no stranger , '' Rose answered , laughingly . 
`` She 's one of our folks now , besides , she is not enough interested in the love affair of a seventeen years old boy ever to repeat it . '' 
She was stopping with her aunt at the Pequot House , and Jimmie saw her a few times , passing himself off by another name than his own . 
and she turned to Annie , who had shivered either with cold or horror at Jimmie 's profanity . 
she asked of Annie , forgetting that the particulars of the affair had not been repeated . 
But it did not matter , for Annie answered all the same . 
She was sitting now with her back to Mrs. Carleton , while , so far as Rose was concerned , her face was in the shadow . 
`` He might have written , '' Annie said , `` and she may have been silly enough to cry over his abrupt and unexplained departure . '' 
She has outlived all that fancy , '' and Annie 's white fingers , on one of which the wedding-ring was shining , worked nervously together . 
As if bent on tormenting both her auditors by talking of Jimmie , Rose kept on , wondering how he looked , if she should know him , what he would say , how he would act , and if he ever would come . 
`` I 'm so glad you are here , Annie , '' she said , `` for you do everybody good you come in contact with , and I want you to talk to Jimmie , will you ? '' 
Annie only smiled , but her cheeks burned with excitement , and Rose was about asking if her head did n't ache , when a letter was brought in bearing the Washington postmark . 
Eagerly Rose broke it open , screaming with joy as she read that Jimmie had been released , -- had taken the oath of allegiance , and was coming home to Rockland . 
and in her delight the little lady forgot that for the last week she had been playing sick , and leaping upon the carpet , danced about the room , kissing alternately her mother and Annie , and asking if they were ever so pleased in their lives . 
she suddenly exclaimed , as she saw the great tears dropping from Annie 's eyes , and guessed of what she was thinking . 
Dear Annie , do n't cry , '' and the chubby arms closed coaxingly round the now sobbing Annie 's neck . 
Yes , Annie knew , but it only made her tears flow faster as she thought of Rose , so full of hope , her husband yet alive , and her brothers coming home , while she , without a friend on whom she could lean , was alone in her desolate widowhood . 
Excusing herself from the room , she sought her own pleasant chamber , and there alone poured out her grief into the ear of One who almost since she could remember had been the recipient of all her sorrows . 
And Annie had far more need of help than Rose suspected . 
She could not stay there and meet Jimmie Carleton face to face after what she had heard , while a return to the lonely cottage seemed impossible . 
It was a sad dilemma in which Annie found herself so suddenly placed , and more than an hour of solitary and prayerful reflection , found her still uncertain as to the course duty would dictate in the present emergency . 
It seemed expedient that she should go away , and when in the evening she joined Rose , who chanced to be alone , she suggested leaving her house , at least during Jimmie 's stay , and going either to the cottage in the Hollow , or to stay with Widow Simms . 
`` You forget the widow does not wear them , '' Annie suggested , her heart beginning to sink , notwithstanding her playful words . 
`` I can go home , '' Annie said , faintly . 
Rose colored , and hesitated somewhat , as if a little uncertain how what she had to say on this subject might be received ; then , resolving to put a bold face upon it , she said : `` I ought to have told you before , I suppose . 
She put them away real carefully , Bridget did , for I 've been myself to see , '' Rose added , quickly , as she saw the color mounting to Annie 's cheeks , and feared she might be indignant at the liberty . 
Annie asked , conquering all emotion , and speaking in her natural tone . 
`` I am not angry , '' Annie replied , `` but more sorry than I can express , though , had I been consulted , I should undoubtedly have done as you did . '' 
Rose cried , throwing her arms around Annie 's neck . 
and she appealed to Mrs. Carleton , who had just come in . 
`` Of course Mrs. Graham will stay , '' was Mrs. Carleton 's reply ; for , during the few days of her sojourn at Rockland , she had become greatly interested in the sweet young Annie , and already foresaw the benefit she would be to Rose , who needed some such influence to keep her in check . 
Mrs. Carleton was proud , and at first her daughter 's growing intimacy with the wife of a mechanic had given her pride a pang , but a closer acquaintance had dispelled the foolish prejudice , for she saw in the gentle Annie unmistakable marks of education and refinement , while she was not insensible to the charm thrown round the beautiful stranger by the lovely Christian character which shone so brightly now in the dark hour of affliction . 
Coming nearer to her , and laying her hand in a motherly way upon her pale brown hair , she said : `` We all want you , Mrs. Graham , and as Rose , by an act which I will admit was too presuming , has virtually closed your own doors against you , I see no alternative but for you to stay with us . 
After this , Annie offered no further remonstrance , though in her heart she hoped Jimmie 's residence in Rockland would not be very long . 
Of Tom she had no dread . 
She rather wished to see him than otherwise , for he had been kind to George , and in fancy she had enshrined him as a middle-aged , greyish-haired man , stooping a little , perhaps , and withal very fatherly and venerable in his appearance ! 
This was Tom , -- but Jimmie , handsome , saucy-eyed , mischievous Jimmie , putting angle worms in Rose 's bosom , and frightening the little Pequot with a mud-turtle , found on New London beach , was a very different thing , and though trusting much to p603-190 the lapse of years and change of name , Annie shrank nervously from the dreaded to-morrow , which was to bring the Rebel home . 
But greatly to Rose 's disappointment Annie obstinately refused , while Mrs. Carleton , too , said it would not be proper for Mrs. Graham to go alone and meet a stranger whom she had never seen . 
`` Could n't she tell him she was Annie , my adopted sister ? '' 
It seemed like a new world to Jimmie when , after they had left the noisy crowd , they turned into the pleasant , quiet street which wound up the hill to where the handsome Mather mansion stood , every blind thrown back and wreaths of smoke curling gracefully from every chimney , for Rose , wishing to do something in honor of her brother 's return , had ordered the whole house to be opened as if for a holiday , while every flower which could possibly be spared from her conservatory , had been broken from its stem , and fashioned into bouquets by Annie 's tasteful hands . 
`` Would n't it be splendid , '' Rose said , as she lay watching Annie at her task , `` would n't it be splendid to hang the Stars and Stripes in festoons across the hall , where Jimmie will pass under them ? '' 
Annie did notthink it would . 
In her opinion Jimmie was not deserving of such honor , and she said so , as delicately as possible , adding that `` were it Tom it would be a very different thing . '' 
Rose knew that Annie was right , and so the Stars and Stripes were not brought out to welcome the young man now rapidly approaching . 
Annie was the first to catch the sound of the carriage wheels , and when Rose turned to ask if she really supposed Jimmie was there , she found herself alone . 
`` She 's gone to meet him , of course , '' she said , `` but I most wish she had staid here , for I wanted to introduce her myself . 
She was too happy just then to remember aught save that he had always been the dearest brother imaginable ; besides that Annie taught that we must forgive as we would be forgiven . 
Annie bore no ill will toward the South . 
She prayed for themas well as for the North , and cried most as hard over the sick , suffering soldiers captured by our army as over our own prisoners , and if she could forgive , Rose surely ought to do so too . 
`` You have not seen Annie yet , '' she said ; `` she ran away the moment she knew you had come . 
I thought she might be going to meet you , but it seems she did not . 
You must love her a heap , and I know you will . 
She 's so beautiful in her mourning , and bears her trouble so sweetly . 
I wish everybody was as good as Annie Graham . 
She has never been heard to say one bitter thing against the South . 
She only pities and prays , and says they are misguided . '' 
Jimmie asked , when Rose had exhausted the list of Annie 's virtues , and paused for a little breath . 
`` Who was she ? 
Had n't he heard of Annie ? 
Had Willfailed to tell him of her adopted sister ? '' 
`` Certainly you are , '' Rose replied ; `` but I 'm not sure Annie will let you call her sister , because you 're , -- you 're , -- well , you see , Annie is real good , and , as I told you , prays , just as hard for Southern soldiers as for ours , that is , prays that they may be Christians , and that their sick and wounded may be kindly cared for , but of course she wants us to beat , and knows we shall , but I guess she does not think of you just as she does of Tom , though she never saw either . 
She would not go up to the depot to meet you , and I wanted her to so much . 
She said , too , it was not good taste , or something like that , to hang out our banner on a Rebel ` saccount , and she acts so funny generally about your coming home that I hope you 'll do your best to be agreeable , and make her like you . 
`` I 'm sure I do n't know where she came from , '' Rose replied , a little uncertain how to grapple with the Carleton pride , which existed in Jimmie as well as the rest of them . 
`` She 's a lady , as any one can see , and possessed of as much refinement as we often find in Boston . 
She ca n't help it , Jimmie , if she is poor . 
It do n't hurt her one bit , and I 'm getting over those foolish notions cherished by our set at home . 
Will says she came of a good family and might have married a millionnaire , old enough to be her father , but she would n't . 
She preferred a mechanic , George Graham , the most splendid looking man you ever saw . 
Will took care of him , and brought him home ; that 's why Annie lives with me . '' 
How many children does she boast ? '' 
`` Not a single bit of a one , '' Rose answered , feeling that Jimmie had said something very bad of Annie . 
He saw it in her countenance , and hastened to make amends by asking numberless questions about Annie , whose history from the time of Rose 's first acquaintance with her up to the present hour , he managed at last to get , the result being that he was not as much interested in the Widow Graham , as he mischievously called her , as he might have been in Miss Annie.The easily disheartened Rose gave him up as in corrigible , and mentally hoping Tom would not prove as refractory as Jimmie had done , she turned the conversation upon Will , whose goodness she extolled until the supper bell rang and Jimmie arose to leave her for a time , as she was not prepared to go down that night and do the honors of the table . 
Around the well shaped head the heavy bands of pale brown hair were coiled , forming a large square knot which , falling low upon the neck , gave to the figure a more girlish appearance than Jimmie had expected to find in his sister 's protge , the Widow Graham.He knew it was Annie , by the mourning robe fitting so closely around the slender throat , and for an instant he wished she were not there , as he preferred being alone with his mother . 
But one glance at the sweet face turned toward him as Mrs. Carleton repeated his name , dispelled all such desires , and with a strange sensation , which he attributed to pleasant disappointment , he took the soft , white hand which Annie extended toward him . 
`` I have heard of Mrs. Graham from my sister , '' Jimmie said , bowing to her with his usual gallantry , while Annie tried to stammer out some reply , making a miserable failure , and leaving on Jimmie 's mind the impression that she was prejudiced against him , and so would not welcome him home . 
A dozen times in the course of the supper Jimmie assured himself that he did not care what was the opinion held of him by such as Annie Graham , while he as often changed his mind and knew that he did care , wondering what it was about her face which puzzled him so much . 
She looked a little like Tom 's wife , Mary , he thought , that is , as Mary had looked just before her departure for Charleston , when she bade him good bye , whispering to him timidly of a world where she hoped to meet again the friends she loved so well . 
He would have given something to have known , but he was far from suspecting the truth or guessing what Annie felt , as she saw upon his face the lines of dissipation , and thought of the debasing scenes through which he must have passed since the days of auld lang syne , when , with the little Pequot of New London , he sat upon the rocks and watched the tide come in , telling her how , on the morrow night , his own fanciful little boat , named for her , should bear them across the placid waters of the bay to where the green hill lay sleeping in the summer moonlight . 
The Pequots reply had been that the morrow was the Sabbath , and not even the pleasure of a sail with him could tempt her to steal God 's time , and appropriate it to such a purpose . 
He had called her a little Puritan then , asking where she learned so strict a creed , and adding , `` but I half believe you 're right , and if I 'd known you sooner I should have been a better boy ; '' then kissing her blushing cheek , he had led her from the rocks over which the waves were breaking now , and that was the last the Pequot ever saw of him . 
There was no sail upon the bay , no more watching for the ebb and flow of the evening tide , no walks on the long piazza , or strolls upon the beach , nothing but news one night that the handsome , saucy-eyed boy was gone to his home in Boston , leaving no message or word of explanation for her , the little Pequot , whose step was slower for a few days , and whose headache was not feigned , as the harsh aunt said it was , when she refused to join the revellers in the parlor , and dance with the grey-haired man , four times her age , who sought her for his partner . 
They had not met since then till now , and Annie struggled hard to keep back the tears as she remembered all that had come to her since that summer at New London -- remembered the childish fancy which died out so fast , and the later love which crowned her early girlhood , finding its full fruition at the marriage altar , and twining itself so closely around the fibres of her heart , that when it was torn away , it left them sore and bleeding with pain at every pore . 
Surely , with this sad experience , Annie , young and beautiful though she was , could feel for Jimmie Carleton naught save the deference she would have felt for any stranger who came to her as the brother of her patroness . 
And still she was conscious of a deeper interest in him than if he had been a perfect stranger , and his presence awoke within her an uncomfortable feeling , making her wish more and more that she was away where she would not be obliged to come in daily contact with him . 
Under these circumstances it is not strange the conversation flagged , until for Rose 's sake Annie felt compelled to make an effort . 
Suddenly remembering Isaac Simms , she asked if anything was ever heard at Washington of the Richmond prisoners ? 
`` Oh , -- it will kill Mrs. Simms if they should bring him back to her dead , '' and the hot tears gushed from Annie 's eyes as she heard in fancy the muffled drum beating its funeral marches to the grave of another Rockland volunteer . 
The tears once started could not be repressed , and Mrs. Carleton and Jimmie finished their supper alone , for Annie excused herself , and hastening to her room , poured out her grief in tears and prayers for the poor sick boy , pining in his dreary prison home , while mingled with her tears was a note of thanksgiving that to her had been given the comfort of knowing that the death pillow of her darling was smoothed with friendly hands , and that no harsh , discordant sounds of prison riot or discipline had disturbed his peaceful dying . 
Meantime Jimmie had returned to his sister , whose first question was for Annie . 
`` I hardly saw them , for she is evidently coy of her glances at a Rebel , '' Jimmie answered , half playfully , half bitterly , for Annie 's manner of quiet reserve had piqued him more than he cared to confess , `` She 's bashful , '' Rose replied ; `` and then , Jimmie , you ca n't expect her to forgive you as readily as your own sister , for you know she never saw you till to-night , and she 's a true patriot ; but say , did you ever see so sweet a face -- one that made you think so much of an angel ? '' 
I like high color better , '' and Jimmie pinched Rose 's glowing cheek until she screamed for him to stop . 
`` You do n't like Annie a bit , and she 's so good , too . 
And there 's nothing blue about her , either . 
Why , she 's a heap more cheerful than I could be if Will were dead , as George is . 
I 'd die too , -- I know I should ; but Annie 's a real Christian , and that does make a difference . 
It seems to be all through her , and she lives it every minute . 
I honestly believe I 'm better than before she came . 
She has actually persuaded me not to get up big dinners on Sunday , as I used to do , but to let all the servants go to church , and every night she goes for half an hour into the kitchen , and teaches old black Phillis how to read the Bible . 
She 's so truthful , too . 
Why , she said she presumed that little Pequot girl would not have liked you any way after she heard that Dick Lee was not your name . '' 
`` Oh , I happened to ask mother something about her one day , right before Annie , and so , of course , explained a little . 
It would not have been polite if I had n't , '' Rose replied , adding , as she saw her brother 's evident chagrin , `` you need not mind one bit , for Annie never tells anything . '' 
It was not the fearing she would tell which affected Jimmie unpleasantly ; it was the feeling that he would rather Annie Graham should not know of all his delinquencies , and so despise him accordingly . 
How unfortunate it was that she was there , and yet he would not have sent her away if he could , though he did wish she were not so well posted with regard to his affairs , both past and present . 
What made Rose tell her of the Pequot , and why had the Pequot haunted him ever since he came into that house ? 
Something had brought her to his mind , and as the servant just then came in , bringing her mistress 's supper , he left his seat by Rose , and walking to the window looked out upon the starry sky , wondering within himself where she was now , the little girl who had sat with him upon the rocks , and told him it was wicked to break God 's fourth command . 
The scene which Annie saw at the supper table was present with him now , remembered , for the first time , since the battle at Bull Run . 
Then , as he lay waiting for the foe , he had in fancy heard again a sweet , girlish voice , bidding him keep holy the Sabbath day , and the tear which dropped upon his gun was prompted by the thought of all he had passed through since the happy school-boy days when the Pequot preached to him her gentle sermons . 
In the hall there was a rapid footstep , and Rose called out : `` Annie , Annie , come here . 
she continued , in much surprise , as Annie looked in , hooded and shawled as for some expedition . 
It is not far , you know , '' was Annie 's answer , and the door closed after her in time to prevent her hearing Rose 's reply . 
The next moment Jimmie was half way down the stairs , calling to Annie , who held the door-knob in her hand . 
`` Thank you , I am not at all afraid , and prefer going alone , as Mrs. Simms might not care to meet a stranger , '' Annie replied , with an air of so much quiet dignity , that Jimmie knew there was no alternative for him save to return to his sister 's chamber , which he did , feeling far more crestfallen than he had supposed it possible for him to feel , just because a widow had refused his escort . 
It was wholly owing to the taint of Rebeldom clinging to him , he knew , for he was not accustomed to having his attentions thus slighted by the ladies to whom they were offered , and all unconsciously the manner of reserve which Annie assumed toward him was punishing him for his sin quite as much as anything which had yet occurred , making him feel keenly that by his traitorous act he p603-207 had , for a time at least , built a gulf between himself and those whose good opinion was worth the having . 
`` Send Mrs. Graham away , '' trembled on Jimmie 's lips , but knowing , from what he had seen , that so far as Rose was concerned , Annie 's tenure at the Mather mansion was stronger than his own , he wisely kept silent , and sitting down by the open grate , he went off into a fit of abstraction , mingled with sad regrets for the past and occasional thoughts of the little white-faced Annie , now essaying to comfort the Widow Simms , who had extorted from her the intelligence brought by Jimmie of her boy , and who , with her hard hands covering her face , was weeping bitterly , and sobbing amid her tears , `` My poor , poor boy ! 
`` She did n't know how once , but Widow Simms and Annie had taught her a heap , and Annie would teach him , too . 
All he had to do was to put the big darning needle through twice , tie a weaver 's knot , cut it off , and the thing was done ; besides that , 't was a real pretty quilt , made from Annie 's calico dress , which she used to wear last summer and look sosweetly in . 
Annie was tying on one side and Jimmie must tie on the other ; he need n't be so lazy . 
By the time Rose had reached the last points in her argument , Jimmie had closed the book he was reading , and concluded that there might be duties required of him a great deal worse than tying a soldier 's comfortable with Annie to oversee ! 
It was strange how much teaching he needed , and how often Annie was called to the rescue . 
So Annie , never dreaming that he knew how to tie the knot as well as she , would come to his aid , her hands sometimes touching his , and his black curls occasionally brushing her pale , brown braids as he bent over her to see how she did it , so as to know himself next time ! 
There was a world of mischief in Jimmie 's saucy eyes as he demurely apologized to Mrs. Graham for the trouble he was giving her , but Annie never once looked up , neither did the color deepen in the least upon her cheek , and when Jimmie , on purpose to draw her out , suggested that `` he was more bother than help , '' she answered that he `` had better return to his reading , as she could get on quite as well alone . '' 
And this was a fair specimen of the nature of the intercourse existing between Jimmie and Annie . 
Secure now in the belief that she would never be recognized as the `` Pequot of New London , '' Annie regarded Jimmie as any ordinary stranger , in whom she had no particular interest , save that which her kind heart prompted her to feel for all mankind . 
She could not dislike him , and she always defended him from the aspersions of the widow , who could not quite conquer her repugnance to a Rebel , and who frequently gave vent to her ill-will toward Jimmie , whom she thought so proud . 
she said , `` struttin ' round as if he was good as anybody , and feelin ' above his betters . 
Of course he felt above her , and Susan , and Annie , she knew he did ; and if she 's Annie she vummedif she 'd stay there , and be looked at as Jim looked at her . '' 
Although making due allowance for the widow 's prejudice , these remarks were not without their effect upon Annie , who , imperceptibly to herself , began to feel that probably Jimmie did regard her as merely a poor dependent on his sister 's bounty , and she unconsciously assumed toward him a cool reserved manner , which led him to fancy that she entertained for him a deep-rooted prejudice on account of his past error . 
He only felt now that he respected the Quaker-like Annie more than he ever respected a woman before , and coveted her good opinion more earnestly than he ever remembered to have coveted anything in his life , unless , indeed , it were his freedom when a prisoner in Bill Baker 's power . 
In this state of affairs it required all Rose 's tact to sustain anything like sociability between her brother and Annie , and the little lady was perfectly delighted when the joyful tidings was received that Tomwas coming home . 
Annie would like Tom , for everybody did ; besides , Tom had written as if he were almosta good man himself , and Annie was sure to be pleased with that ; they , at least , would be fast friends ; and secure on this point , Rose , with her usual impulsiveness , plunged into the preparations for Tom 's reception . 
Even Annie did not think any reasonable honor too great for him , particularly after Isaac wrote from Washington to his mother , telling her of Tom 's generous sacrifice , and how he might have been home long before if he had not chosen to stay and care for a poor , sick boy . 
But if the widow were thus affected by Tom 's kind act , how much more were the mother and sister pleased to know how noble and good he was , while Annie , amid the tears she could not repress , said to Rose , `` You should be proud of such a brother ! 
They were to bring out the new gun , he said , and as it was minus a name , the villagers had concluded to call it the `` Thomas Carleton , '' asking `` how she thought the ' Squarewould like it , and how many times it ought to be fired . 
From the cupola of the Mather mansion the Stars and Stripes were to be hung out , and on the morning of Tom 's expected arrival , Jimmie and Annie climbed the winding stairs and fastened the staff securely to its place . 
There were tears in Annie 's eyes as the graceful folds shook themselves to the breeze , for she remembered the coming of another soldier when this same banner was wrapped around a coffin . 
Across the valley and beyond the confines of the village she could see where that coffin with its loved inmate was buried , and as the past came rushing over her , she suddenly gave way , and sitting down beneath the flag wept bitterly , while Jimmie , with a vague idea as to what might have caused her tears , stood looking at her , wishing he could comfort her . 
As yet they had scarcely passed the bounds of the most scrupulous politeness to each other , and for him to attempt to comfort her seemed preposterous , while to leave her without a word , seemed equally unkind . 
I am not certain but the good people of Rockland , in their intended kindness to Tom , are doing you an injury , and surely Lieutenant Graham , having been a resident of this place , should receive their first thought with all pertaining to him . '' 
There was no mistaking the genuine sympathy which thrilled in every tone of Jimmie 's voice , and for a moment Annie wept more passionately than before . 
It was the first time he had ever spoken to her of her husband , and his words touched a responsive chord at once . 
`` It is not that so much , '' she answered , at last . 
`` I am glad they are honoring your brother thus ; he richly deserves it for his noble adherence to his country in her hour of peril , and for his generous treatment of poor Isaac Simms . 
and covering her face with her hands , Annie wept again , more piteously than before . 
Here was a point which Jimmie could not touch , and an askward silence ensued , broken at last by Annie , who , resuming her usual calm demeanor , frankly offered Jimmie her hand , saying : `` I thank you , Mr. Carleton , for your sympathy . 
The few words said to him by Annie up in his sister 's cupola had made him very happy , for he felt that a better understanding existed between himself and Annie , that she did not so thoroughly despise him as he had at first supposed , and that the winning her respect was not a hopeless task . 
It 's the one right at the head of the stairs , '' she continued , and glad of an opportunity to rest , Tom went to the room where Annie Graham just then chanced to be . 
She had discovered that the servant had neglected to supply the rack with towels , and so she had brought them herself , lingering a moment after they were arranged , to see if everything were in order . 
She did not hear Tom 's step , until he opened the door upon her , and uttered an exclamation of surprise and apology . 
Mrs. Graham was young , he supposed , and possibly good looking , but she did not bear the stamp of refinement and elegance which this graceful creature did , and fancying he had made a mistake and stumbled into the apartment of some city visitor , he was about to withdraw , when Annie came toward him , saying : `` Excuse me , sir , I came in to see that all was right in your room . 
This last Annie spoke doubtingly , for in the tall , handsome stranger before her there was scarcely a vestige of the `` greyish haired , oldish , fatherly-looking man '' she had in fancy known as Captain Carleton , and but for the eyes , so much like Mrs. Mather 's , and the unmistakable Carleton curve about the mouth , she would never have dreamed that it was Tomto whom she was speaking . 
Once he thought of Annie Graham ; but this could not be a widow , though the deep mourning dress told of recent bereavement . 
Still Annie Graham was a different personage , he knew ; and thus perplexed , Tom , instead of resting , commenced his toilet for dinner , determining , as soon as it was completed , to go down and have the mystery unravelled . 
Jimmie knew he had seen Annie , and with a sudden uprising of something undefined he answered in apparent surprise : `` Visitor ! 
Both were conscious of something they were trying to conceal , while a feeling akin to a pang shot through Jimmie 's heart as he thought how much more worthy of Annie Graham 's respect was steady old Tom than a rollicking young scapegrace like himself . 
`` Rose has taken her up , you know , and as a word of brotherly advice , let me say that if you wish to raise Rose to the seventh heaven you have only to praise her prot ge . 
We , that is the widow and I , do not get on very well , for she is a staunch patriot , and until this morning I verily believe she looked on me as a kind of monster . 
She 's a perfect little Puritan , too , and if she stays here long , will make a straight-laced Methodist of Rose , under the garb of an Episcopalian , of course , as she is the strictest kind of a church woman . '' 
`` I shall not esteem her less for that , '' Tom said , and in rather a perturbed state of mind , as far as the Widow Graham was concerned , he went with Jimmie to the parlor , half hoping his brother had mischievously misled him , and that the stranger would prove after all to be some visitor from Boston . 
Tom knew now that Jimmie had not deceived him , and with a feeling of disappointment he addressed Mrs. Graham , when introduced by Jimmie , making some playful allusion to their having met before , but saying nothing to her then of George , for remembering his own feelings when Mary died , he knew that Annie would not thank him , a stranger , to bring up sad memories of the past by talking of her husband . 
Still , in his manner toward her there was something which told how he pitied and sympathized with her , and Annie , grateful always for the smallest kindness , threw off her air of quiet reserve and talked with him freely , asking many questions concerning Isaac Simms and the condition of the Richmond prisoners generally . 
`` She was going round after dinner to call on Isaac , '' she incidentally said , whereupon Tom rejoined that wishing to know how Isaac bore the journey and the excitement , he had intended going there himself , and would , with her permission , time his visit to suit her convenience , and so accompany her . 
Instantly Jimmie 's black eyes flashed upon Annie a look of inquiry , which brought the bright color to her cheeks , for she knew he was thinking of the night when she had refused his escort , and she felt her present position a rather embarrassing one . 
There was a reason why Tom should call on Widow Simms , while with Jimmie there was none , and bowing to Captain Carleton , she replied that `` she presumed Mrs. Simms would be glad of an opportunity to thank him for his kindness to Isaac , and that , though not in the least afraid to go alone , she had no objection to showing him the way . '' 
cried Rose , who at first had been too busy with her duties as hostess , clearly to comprehend what Tom was saying to Annie . 
`` I always surrender to the majority , '' he said , playfully , while Jimmie 's spirits rose perceptibly , and Annie had never before seen him so witty or gay since he came home from Washington as he was during the dinner . 
It was joy at his brother 's return , she thought , never suspecting that Tom 's decision had anything to do with it , and Jimmie hardly knew himself that it had . 
He only felt relieved that Tom was not to receive a favor which had once been denied to himself , and glad also that Annie was to spend the evening with them . 
There was no necessity for Annie 's deferring her visit . 
The serenade was not for her , and with that nice sense of propriety which prompted her to shrink from anything like intrusion , she felt that on this first night of their reunion , the Carleton family would rather be alone . 
This rule would apply also to Mrs. Simms , but Annie knew she was always welcome to the widow , and wishing to see the boy who had led her husband from the battlefield , she went to her room , and throwing on her cloak and hood , stole quietly down stairs just as Jimmie was crossing the hall . 
He guessed where she was going , and coming quickly to her side , said , `` I supposed you had given up that call , but if you persist in going , it must not be alone , this night of all others , when the streets are likely to be full of men and boys . 
You accepted my brother 's escort , you can not , of course , refuse mine , '' and seizing his hat from the hall stand he led her out upon the steps and placed her arm in his with an air of so much authority that Annie had no word to offer in remonstrance . 
It was not a very comfortable walk to either party , or a very sociable one either , but ere it was ended Annie had reason to be glad that she was not alone , for as Jimmie had predicted , the streets were full of men and boys , following the band up to the Mather Mansion , and as they met group after group of the noisy throng , Annie timidly drew closer to her companion , who pressed more tightly the arm trembling in his own . 
`` I am glad you came with me , '' she said , when at last the friendly gleam of the widow 's candle appeared in view , `` but if you please I think you had better not go in to-night . 
He had no intention of entering the house , but he should wait outside , he said , until Annie 's visit was over . 
Annie had no alternative save submission , and parting from Jimmie at the gate , she hurried up the walk and was soon bending over the couch of the sick boy , whose eyes beamed the welcome his pale lips could scarcely speak . 
How many questions she had to ask him , and how much he had to tell her of that day when her husband received his fatal wound . 
Altogether it was a sad interview , and Annie 's eyes were nearly blistered with the hot tears she shed while listening to Isaac 's touching account of George ere the woods were gained , and Tom Carleton generously gave up his seat to the bleeding man , thereby becoming himself a prisoner . 
Much , too , was said in praise of Tom , and Annie felt that she could not do too much for one who had shown himself so generous and brave . 
Talking of Tomreminded her of Jimmie stalking up and down the icy walks , waiting patiently for her , and when at last the music of Tom 's serenade had ceased she arose to go , wishing to get away ere the band came there , as she knew they were intending to do . 
As John arose to accompany her , she had to say that `` Jimmie Carleton was waiting for her by the gate . '' 
Instantly the sharp eyes of the widow shot at her a curious glance , which brought the hot blood to her cheek , while John and Susan exchanged a smile , the meaning of which she could not fail to understand . 
Poor Annie ! 
How her heart throbbed with pain as she guessed of what they were thinking ! 
Could they for a moment believe her so heartless and cold ? 
The mere idea made her dizzy and faint , and scarcely articulating her good-night , she hastened out into the cool night air , feeling half tempted to refuse outright the arm offered for her support . 
If she only dared tell him to leave her there alone , -- leave her to flee away through the dark , lonely streets to the still more lonely yard , where on George 's grave she could lay herself down and die . 
But not thus easily could life 's heavy burden be shaken off ; she could not lay it down at will , -- and conquering the emotions which , each time she thought of John Simms ' significant smile , threatened to burst out into a fierce storm of passionate sobs , she apologized for having kept Jimmie waiting so long , and taking his arm left the cottage gate just as the throng of serenaders turned into that street . 
Jimmie knew she had been crying , and conjecturing that she had been talking of her husband , he , too , began to speak of George , asking her many questions about him , and repeating many things he had heard in his praise from the Rockland citizens . 
It seemed strange that this should comfort her , but it did . 
The hard , bitter feeling insensibly passed away while listening to Jimmie , and by the time the Mather Mansion was reached the tears were dried on Annie 's cheeks , and outwardly she was cheerful and patient as ever . 
After that night Rose had no cause for complaint that Jimmie was rude to Annie , or Annie cool toward him , for though Annie talked to him but little , she did not for get the sympathy so delicately manifested for her , and treated him with as much respect as she awarded Tom , who grew each day more and more interested in the black-robed figure , reminding him so much of his lost Mary . 
Jimmie knewhe did , and watched narrowly for the time when she would know it , too ; but such time did not come , for Annie had no suspicion that either of the brothers regarded her with the shadow of a feeling save that of ordinary friendship . 
As much of her time as possible was spent with the Widow Simms , and a great part of Isaac 's visible improvement was owing to her gentle care and the sunshine of her presence . 
John 's furlough had expired , and now that he was gone , the disconsolate Susan turned to Annie for comfort , while Isaac watched daily for the sound of the little feet coming up the walk , and bringing with them so much happiness to the lonely cottage . 
Mother nods over her knitting , Tom just walks the floor , or reads some stiff Presbyterian book , while Jimmie thrums the piano and teases my kitten awfully , '' Rose said to Annie one night when the latter came in from a tour of calls , the last of which had been on Mrs. Baker , uow a much happier , better woman , than when we first made her acquaintance . 
`` It 's so different when you are here , '' Rose continued , as Annie came and sat down by her side . 
`` I did not supppse my absence could affect your happiness , or I would certainly have staid with you more , '' Annie replied ; and Rose continued : `` Well , it just does , and now that both Tom and Jimmie are going so soon , I shall need you to oversee the things I must get ready for them . '' 
Annie repeated , in some surprise . 
You spoke of his leaving , too , '' Annie said , and Rose rejoined : `` Jimmie is going with Tom to join the Federal Army on the Potomac , and , as he says , retrieve , if possible , the character he lost by turning traitor once . '' 
Annie exclaimed , her white face lighting up with a sudden animation , which made it seem very beautiful to the young man just entering the door . 
he said , half playfully , to Annie , who answered frankly : `` Yes , very glad . '' 
It makes one think better of himself , and consequently do better if he knows that his absence will cause a feeling of regret , however slight , to the friends left behind , '' Jimmie remarked , while in his eyes there was a peculiar expression which Annie failed to see , as he stood looking down upon her . 
She would miss Jimmie , she knew , for she had become accustomed to his merry whistle , his ringing laugh , his teasing jokes at Rose 's expense , and his going would leave them very lonely , and so she frankly admitted , adding that `` it was not because she wished to be rid of him that she was glad ; it pleased her to see him in the path of duty , even though that path led to danger and possible death . '' 
`` Oh , do n't , Annie , do n't talk of death to Jimmie ! '' 
Annie asked , with such a depth of mournful pathos , that Rose 's tears flowed at once . 
Of course Annie knew how it felt , and every fibre of her heart was bleeding now , as she remembered one who left her as full of life and hope as either Tom or Jimmie , but who came back no more , save as the dead come back , shrouded and coffined for the grave . 
But Annie would not give way to her own feelings then . 
She would comfort Rose , and encourage the young man , who , she felt , shrank from the perils spread out before him . 
So she told how few there were , comparatively , who died on the battle-field , while the chances for life in the hospitals were greater now that better care and skill had been procured . 
`` Annie , -- excuse me , Mrs. Graham ? '' 
`` I have thought of it , '' said Annie , while Rose exclaimed : `` Youturn hospital nurse , -- ridiculous ! 
And she appealed to the latter , who had just come in . 
`` Shall Annie go into those horrid hospitals ? '' 
`` I am not Mrs. Graham 's keeper , '' Tom replied , `` but I should be sorry to see her acting in the capacity of hospital nurse , even though I know that some of our noblest , best women are engaged in that work . '' 
Still I should be sorry to have her there amid the sickening horrors . '' 
`` I know it would be nice to be a Florence Nightingale , and Annie would make a splendid one , but I 'll never let her go , unless you , or Jimmie , or Will are wounded , and then we 'll come together , wo n't we , Annie ? '' 
There was no response from Annie , until Jimmie said : `` Say , Mrs. Graham , if I am ever wounded , and you hear I am suffering in some dismal hole , will you come and care for me ? '' 
It was `` Jimmie Carleton '' whom Annie was to nurse . 
Lifting up her head so that her soft , blue eyes looked into his , Annie answered , unhesitatingly : `` Providence permitting , I will , and I would do the same for any brave fellow who follows , as my husband did , where duty to his country leads . '' 
It was folly for him to lie awake so long as he did that night , or to dream , when at last he slept , of hospital walls expanding into a palace as an angel form with hair and eyes like Annie 's bent over his feverish pillow , while soft , white hands dressed some gaping wound where the enemy 's bullet had been . 
Sheer folly , too , was it for `` dignified old Tom , '' to watch from his window the young moon , until it set in the western sky , thinking of Mary , as he tried to make himself believe , wondering why it was that Annie reminded him so much of her , and why he should be so deeply interested in one who , until a few weeks past , had been to him a stranger . 
To Annie , Captain Carleton and Jimmie were nothing more than friends , and if , during the week preceding their departure , she was quite as busy as Rose , and apparently as much interested in the various preparations for their comfort , it was only because they were soldiers , and not , as Widow Simms once suggested to Susan , `` because they were Carletons , and handsome and rich , and , -- and , -- well , there 's no tellin ' what will happen , when a widder 's young and handsome , but this I know , I ` venever married , and my man 's been dead this nineteen years ! 
and in her ire at Annie 's supposed preference for `` sassy-faced Jeems , '' the widow spilled more than half of the spiced chocolate she was carrying to Isaac . 
Annie Graham would have done for Eli , John , and Isaac Simms , or possibly William Baker , the same offices she was doing for `` the Carletons , '' and her voice would have been just as sweet and hopeful when she bade them farewell , as it was that bright spring morning , when , in the parlor of the Mather mansion , Tom and Jimmie were waiting to say good-bye . 
This he was sure pleased Annie , and no sacrifice was too costly if it won her regard . 
She had prayed for him , he knew , for Rose had told him so , and prayers like hers , though they did not avail to save her George 's life , would surely shield him from danger . 
There were tears , and kisses , and blessings from Rose and her mother , a few low-spoken words of sympathy and good will from Annie , and then the two young men were gone . 
Half an hour later , and the eastern train thundered through the town , bearing away to the fields of bloody p603-247 carnage , three more young , vigorous lives , and leaving desolate two homes , one the lonely cottage , where Bill 's mother wept alone , the other the Mather mansion , where Mrs. Carleton and Rose sobbed bitterly , while Annie strove in various ways to comfort them . 
IT was very lonely at the Mather mansion after the departure of the soldiers , and it required all Annie 's tact to keep Rose from sinking entirely under the sense of desolation which crept over her as she began more and more to realize what the war meant , and to tremble for the safety of her husband and her brothers . 
They were still in Washington , but they might be ordered to advance at any moment ; and , in a tremor of distress , Rose waited and watched for every mail which could bring her tidings of them . 
Next to her husband 's letters , Jimmie 's did her the most good , for Jimmie had in his nature a world of hopefulness and humor ; and his letters were full of fun , and quaint description of the life he was leading . 
It was a fancy of Jimmie 's that by serving as a private in the army against which his hand had once been lifted , he should in some way expiate his sin , and , perhaps , be surer of winning favor from Annie Graham , whose blue eyes were constantly before him just as they had looked when , in her dress of black , she stood in the spring sunshine , bidding him good-bye . 
This was what Jimmie wrote to Rose after he had been gone for three or four weeks , and what Rose , with her usual impetuous thoughtlessness , read to her mother and Annie , who were both in her room when the letter came . 
Annie had made an attempt to leave , but Rose had insisted that there could be no secret in Jimmie 's letter . 
If there was , she would skip it , she said , and she read on , stumbling dreadfully , and mispronouncing words , for Jimmie 's handwriting was never very plain ; and this letter , written with a soft lead pencil , with a bit of slatestone for a table , was his very worst . 
She made out , however , that he had declined the office of second lieutenant because he thought he did not deserve it ; that he had named Eli Simms as a fitter person for it than himself , and that he had called the widow a `` crab-apple , '' or something like it . 
Annie exclaimed , her face turning very white , as she leaned toward Rose , who , startled at her vehemence , tried again to make out the word , which was strangely distorted , from the fact that just as Jimmie was writing it , his shadow , Bill , had struck him familiarly upon the shoulder , saying , with a laugh , `` Writin ' to your gal , I s ` pose ? 
`` It looks like Pequot , and some like Patagonian , '' Rose said , deciding at last that it was paragon , and adding , by way of an explanation to herself of Annie 's evident surprise , `` you did not like the idea of his calling you a Pequot , did you Annie ? 
`` Yes , I remember , '' and Annie 's voice was a little husky -- `` the little girl who was not happy with her aunt , and so listened the more willingly to the boy 's kind winning words . '' 
Annie did not know why she said that , unless it were wrung from her by some sudden and bitter memory of what had been a bright sun-spot in her cheerless childhood . 
`` Never , '' Annie replied , feeling glad that a servant appeared just at that moment , telling Rose a little girl was in the kitchen asking to see her . 
Rose had asked both her mother and Annie to accompany her , but they had declined , and for a time after Rose 's departure they sat together in perfect silence , while a curious train of thought was passing through the minds of each . 
Annie 's agitation when Rose read `` Pequot '' for `` paragon '' had surprised Mrs. Carleton , while what she had said of the girl and her aunt had awakened a feeling of disquiet and suspicion . 
It was this pride which had prompted her to resort to so extreme measures with the boy Jimmie , when she found how much he was interested in the little Pequot , and when , during Jimmie 's brief stay in Rockland , she , with a mother 's quick intuition , detected in him signs of interest in Annie Graham , her pride again took fright , and she was half glad to have him go from the possible temptation . 
Something in the nobler part of the woman 's nature told her how wrong the feeling was , while each day some new development of Annie 's gentle Christian character , made the desolate young creature dearer to her . 
That she was superior to most people in her rank of life Mrs. Carleton knew , and she had more than once wondered how one like her had ever become the wife of a mechanic . 
She was not thinking of this , however , on the afternoon when she was alone with Annie , while Rose was away on her errand of mercy . 
She was thinking rather of the suspicion which had just found a lodgment in her mind , and was devising some means of testing its reality . 
To this end she at last made some casual remark about Rockland and its people , asking if Annie had always lived there . 
`` Yes , -- in Connecticut , '' Annie said . 
At mention of New London Annie 's eyes flashed upon Mrs. Carleton with a startled look , as if she felt that there was a deeper meaning in the questioning to which she was being subjected than appeared on the surface , and her voice trembled a little as she replied , `` I was born in Hartford , and lived there till I was eight years old , when my parents both died of cholera in one day , and I went to live with my aunt in New Haven . '' 
Annie 's heart beat almost audibly , and her cheeks were very red , as she replied , `` My father was Dr. Howard , and I was Annie Louise Howard . 
Annie was crying now , and excusing herself she left the parlor and repaired to her own room , where her excitement spent itself in tears and sobs as she recalled all the dreadful years when she was subject to the caprices of the most capricious of women , who had attempted to force her into a marriage with a millionnaire of sixty , and had driven her to accept the love which George Graham had offered her . 
George had notbeen her equal in an intellectual point of view , and none knew this fact better than Annie herself . 
But he was the kindest , tenderest of husbands , and she had loved him devotedly for the manly virtues which made him the noble , unselfish man he was . 
Capt. Carleton and Jimmie both could sympathize with her tastes and inclinations far better than George had done ; but never once during her brief married life had she allowed herself to wonder what her lot might have been had it been cast with people like the Carletons . 
And since her husband 's death anything which looked away from that grave by the churchyard gate seemed so terrible to her that now , as she recalled Mrs. Carleton 's questionings , and guessed what had prompted them , every nerve quivered with pain , which could only be soothed by a visit to George 's grave . 
There was a fierce struggle with her pride , a close reasoning with herself , and then her better nature triumphed , and her heart went out very kindly toward poor Annie , at that moment standing by her husband 's grave , and wondering why her thoughts would keep straying away to the wayward young man who had been a traitor to his country , but was trying to atone by voluntarily bearing the hardships of a private 's life when a better was offered him . 
He had asked if she would think he did right , and the question had shown that he cared for her good opinion . 
Yes , she did think he was right , and she resolved to send him a message to that effect when Rose wrote to him next . 
There was no wrong to the dead in the thought , and her tears dropped just as fast upon the marble as she stooped to kiss the name cut upon it and then left the silent graveyard . 
Meantime Rose had visited her sick woman in the Hollow , -- had fed the hungry children , and dropped upon the floor the six weeks baby which she tried to hold ; then , gathering her shawl about her and holding up her skirts , just as she always did when in the homes of the poor , she re-entered her carriage and bade Jake drive her next to Widow Simms ' . 
Isaac was very weak and pale , and his face looked like that of some young girl as he lay among his pillows , in the pretty dressing-gown which Rose had bought and Annie had made for him . 
After that night the widow 's mouth shut together more firmly than ever , and the frown between her eyes was more marked and decided , while her manner to all save Isaac and Annie Graham was sharper , and crisper than before . 
When Eli 's letter came telling of his promotion and lauding Jimmie Carleton , whose generous act was a by-word in the company , her face relaxed a little , and she said to Annie Graham : `` The Lord is good to my two oldest boys , but if he 'd give me Isaac I would n't care for all the titles in Christendom . '' 
As the warm weather came on , Isaac did not get up any more to sit by the open door , but lay all day on his bed , sometimes sleeping , sometimes thinking , and sometimes listening while Annie read to him from the Bible . 
Isaac was very fond of Annie . 
She had been George Graham 's wife , and he evinced so much desire to have her constantly with him that at last she stayed altogether with Mrs. Simms , only going occasionally to the Mather Mansion , where they missed her so much . 
Rose was nothing without her , and had at first opposed her going to the Widow Simms . 
`` If help was needed , '' she said , `` she would hire some one , for Annie must not tire herself out just as she was beginning to grow plump and beautiful again . '' 
But when Isaac said to her : `` Please let Mrs. Graham come ; it will not be long she 'll have to stay , and she is so full of hope and faith that it makes me more willing to die and to go away alone across the Jordan , '' she withdrew her opposition , and Annie was free to go and come as she liked . 
It suited Annie to get away from the Mather Mansion just then , for she could not help feeling that there was a purpose in Mrs. Carleton 's questioning her of her early history , and she hailed any excuse which removed her from the scrutiny with which since that conversation touching her early home and maiden name Mrs. Carleton had evidently regarded her . 
Jimmie had written to her once , inclosing the unsealed note in a letter to Rose , and Annie 's cheeks had been all ablaze as she read it , for she knew the mother 's eyes were fastened upon her . 
It was nothing but a simple acknowledgment of some article Annie had made and sent to him in a box filled for all three of the soldiers , Will Mather , Tom and Jimmie . 
There was also mention made of Annie 's kindly message , to the intent that she did think he was right in giving the office to Eli , and a wish expressed that she would write to him . 
Tom , too , had sent thanks to Annie Graham for the needle-book made for him , but he did not write to her , though every letter had in it more or less of `` Mrs Graham , '' and Mrs. Carleton , while saying to herself : `` Both my boys have fallen under the spell , '' felt her pride gradually giving way and her heart growing warmer toward the woman whom she missed so much during the weeks spent at Isaac 's bedside . 
They were not many , for when the dry days of August came on , and the grass withered by the door , and the flowers drooped for want of rain , and the sun rose each morning redder , hotter , than on the previous day , the sick boy began to fail rapidly , and one night , just as the wind was beginning to blow from the west , where a bank of dark clouds was lying , he whispered to Annie : `` Call mother and Susan , for I know I am going now . '' 
The widow was in the back yard , putting out the barrels and tubs to catch the rain if it came , for the well and the cistern were nearly dry , just as her dim eyes were , when a few minutes after she bent over her boy , and saw the change coming so rapidly . 
She could not weep , and Susan 's sobs annoyed her . 
more of a black-robed figure , with braids of pale-brown hair , than of a lurking foe , little dreamed of the good word spoken for him by the dying boy , whose eyes turned lovingly to Annie when she came back to him , and held his clammy hand . 
But he was Isaac Simms , -- `` Little Ike , '' -- `` Stub , '' -- whom everybody liked ; and so the firemen came out to do him honor , and the Rockland Guards , and the company of young lads who were beginning to drill , and the boys from the Academy , and Rose Mather was chief directress , and her carriage carried the widow , and Susan , and Annie , and herself up to the newly-made grave , where they left the boy who once had sawed wood for the little lady now paying him such honor . 
Susan 's husband was alive , and in the full flush of prosperity ; so Susan did not need sympathy , but the widow did , and Rose got her up to the `` Great House , '' as the widow called it , and ordered a most elaborate dinner , with soups and fish , and roasts and salads , prepared with oil , which turned the widow 's stomach , and ices and chocolate , and Charlotte-russe , and nuts and fruit , and coffee served in cups the size of an acorn , the widow thought , as very red in the face and perspiring at every pore , she went through the dreadful dinner which lasted nearly three hours , and left her at its conclusion , `` weak as water , and sweatin ' like rain , '' as she whispered to Annie , who took the tired woman for a few moments into her own room , and listened patiently to her comments upon the grand dinner which had so nearly been the death of her . 
It was her first glimpse of life among the very wealthy , and while her mother-in-law was wondering `` how Annie could stand such doin 's every day , and especially that ` bominable soup , and still wus salut , '' Susan was thinking how she should like to live in just such style , and wondering if , when John came home with his wages all saved , she could not set up housekeeping somewhat on the Mather order . 
There was a plan forming in p603-268 the widow 's mind , and it came out at last to Annie , who was visiting her one day . 
And Annie encouraged her to go , and even talked of going too , but the first suggestion of the plan brought such a storm of opposition from Rose , that for a little time longer Annie yielded , resolving , however , that ere long she would break away and take her place where she felt that she could do more good than she was doing in Rockland . 
WIDOW SIMMS was going to the army , and Jimmie Carleton , who was coming home for a few weeks , was to be her escort to Washington . 
During the weary days he had passed in the Georgetown Hospital , Annie Graham 's face had been constantly with him , and as he watched the tall , wiry figure of the nurse , who always wore a sun-bonnet and had a pin between her teeth , he kept wishing that it was Annie , and even worked himself into a passion against his sister Rose , who , in one of her letters , had spoken of Annie 's proposal to offer herself as nurse , and her violent opposition to the plan . 
`` If Rose had minded her business Annie might possibly have been in this very ward , instead of that old maid from Massachusetts , who looks for all the world like those awful good women in Boston , who do n't wear hoops , and who distribute tracts on Sundays in the vicinity of Cornhill . 
Annie , in her black dress , with her hair done up somehow , would do more good to us poor invalids than forty strong-minded females in paste-board bonnets , with an everlasting pin between their teeth . '' 
This time he wore the `` army blue ; '' but the suit which at first had been so fresh and clean , was soiled , and worn , and hateful to the fastidious young man , who only endured it because he fancied it might in some way commend him to Annie Graham . 
Rose had written that she worshiped the very name of a soldier , especially if he were a poor private , her sympathies being specially enlisted for that class of people . 
And Jimmie was a poor private , and a wounded one at that , with his arm in a sling , and a cane in his hand , and his curly hair cut short , and his coat all wrinkled and soiled , and his knapsack on his back ; and he was going home to Annie , who surely would welcome him now , and hold his hand a moment , and possibly dress his wound . 
That wouldbe delightful ; and Jimmie 's blood went tingling through his veins as he felt in fancy the soft touch of Annie 's fingers upon his flesh , and saw her head crowned with the pale-brown hair bending over him . 
He felt a little disappointment that she was not at the depot to meet him , while his chagrin increased at the tardiness of her appearance after his arrival home , but she was coming at last , and Jimmie 's quick ear caught the rustle of her garments as she came down the stairs and into the room , smiling and blushing , as she took his offered hand , and begged him not to rise for her . 
I had hoped your ankle might be well , '' she said , glancing at his cane , which he carried more from habit , and because it had been given him by an officer , than from any real necessity . 
His sprained ankle wasalmost well , and only troubled him at times ; but after Annie 's look of commiseration at the cane , and her evident intention to pity him for his ankle rather than his arm , he found it vastly easy to be lame again , and even made some excuse to cross the room in order to show off the limpwhich had not been very perceptible when he first came in . 
And Annie was very sorry for him , and inquired with a great deal of interest into the particulars of his being wounded , and kindly sat where he could look directly at her , and thought , alas ! 
Some such thought passed through Annie 's mind , while Rose , too , felt the change in her handsome brother , and , with a puzzled expression on her face , said to him , as she stood by his side : `` How queer you do look , with your hair so short , and the hollows in your cheeks ! 
Mrs. Carleton said , reprovingly , while Annie looked up in surprise , pitying Jimmie , whose chin quivered even more than his voice , as he said : `` Tom and Will have not been sick like me ; and then , -- there 's no denying it , -- officers have easier times , as a general thing , than privates . 
There was a marked emphasis on the word friends , and Jimmie 's eyes went over appealingly to Annie , who remembered how proud the boy Dick Lee used to be of his beauty , and guessed how Rose 's remarks must have wounded him . 
Rose suspected it , too , and winding her arms around his neck she tried to apologize . 
`` Forgive me , Jimmie , '' she said ; `` I did not mean anything ; only your hair isso short , -- just like the convicts at Charlestown , -- and your coat is so tumbled and dirty ; but Hannah can wash that , or I can buy you a new one , '' and Rose stumbled on , making matters ten times worse , until Mrs. Carleton succeeded in turning the conversation upon something besides her son 's personal appearance . 
Annie was very sorry for him , and her sympathy expressed itself in the soft light of her blue eyes which rested so kindly upon him , and in the low , gentle cadence of her voice when she addressed him , and her eager haste to bring him whatever she thought he wanted , and so save him the pain of walking ! 
From a lady who had spent a few days at the Mather House , and who once lived near Hartford , Mrs. Carleton had learned that the Dr. Howard , who had died of cholera in ' 49 , was highly respected , both as a gentleman and a practising physician , and this had helped to reconcile her in a great measure to whatever might result from her son 's evident liking for Annie Graham , neAnnie Howard , and as she more than half suspected , the heroine of Jimmie 's boyish fancy . 
How very beautiful Jimmie thought Annie was , after he had had time to recover himself a little and look at her closely . 
She was in better health , and certainly in better spirits than when he saw her last . 
Her cheeks were rounder , her eyes were brighter , and her hair more luxuriant , and worn more in accordance with the prevailing style . 
This was Rose 's doings , as was also the increased length of Annie 's dress , which swept the floor with so long a trail that the Widow Simms had made it the subject of sundry invidious remarks . 
This was Mrs. Simms ' opinion of the long gored dress which Jimmie noticed at once , admiring the graceful , symmetrical appearance it gave to Annie 's figure , just as he admired the softening effect which the plain white collar and cuffs had upon Annie 's dress . 
When he was home before , everything about her was black of the deepest dye ; but now the sombreness of her attire was relieved somewhat , and Jimmie liked the change . 
He could look at her without seeing constantly before him the grave by the churchyard gate , where slept the man whose widow she was . 
Could Rose have had her choice in the matter , she would have selected Tom for Annie . 
He was older , steadier , while his letters seemed very much like Annie . 
He was better than Jimmie , Rose reasoned , and more likely to suit Annie . 
Still , if it were to be otherwise , she was satisfied , and in a quiet way she aided and abetted Jimmie in all his plans to be frequently alone with Annie . 
It was Annie who rode with him when Mrs. Carleton was indisposed , and Rose did not care to go , -- Annie who read to him the books which Rose pronounced too stupid for anything , -- Annie who brought his cane , and Annie who finally attended to his wounded arm . 
The physician did not come one day ; Mrs. Carleton was sick ; and Rose positively could not touch it , and so Annie timidly offered her services , and Jimmie knew from actual experience just how her soft fingers felt upon his arm , his pulse throbbing and the blood tingling in every vein as she dressed his wound so carefully , asking anxiously if she hurt him very badly . 
He would have suffered martyrdom sooner than lose the opportunity of feeling those soft fingers upon his flesh , and so it came about that Annie was his surgeon , and ministered daily to the wound which healed far too rapidly to suit the young man , who began to shrink from a return to the life he had found so irksome . 
The Widow Simms was ready to go with him ; Susan had gone to her mother , and the cottage was to be closed , subject to a continual oversight from Mrs. Baker and an occasional inspection from both Rose and Annie . 
Sacred to her was that box , and she put it with her best table and chairs , bidding Annie Graham see that no harm befell it , and saying to her , `` In case I never come back , and peace is declared , burn the box for Isaac 's sake , right there on the grass-plat , which he dreamed about in Richmond . '' 
And Annie promised all , as she packed the widow 's trunk , putting in many little dainties which Rose Mather had supplied , and which were destined for the soldiers whom the widow was to nurse . 
Jimmie was not in a very social mood that day ; the house was very lonely without Annie , and the young man did nothing but walk from one window to another , looking always in the direction of Widow Simms ' , and scarcely heeding at all what either his mother or sister were saying to him . 
When it began to grow dark , and he heard Rose speak of sending the carriage for Annie as she had promised to do , he said : `` I ought to see Mrs. Simms myself to-night , and know if everything is in readiness for to-morrow . 
she exclaimed , `` I 'm so glad ; tell her so for me . 
She did think Tom , with his thirty-two years , better suited to Annie , who had been a wife , than saucy-faced , teasing Jimmie of only twenty-four . 
It was not possible for one of his temperament to live a whole month with Annie as he had lived , and not be in love with her . 
Her graceful beauty , brightened by the auxiliaries of dress and improved health , and the thousand little attentions she paid him just because he was a soldier , had finished the work begun when he was home before , and he could not go back without hearing from her own lips whether there was any hope for him , -- the scamp , the scapegrace , the rebel , as he had been called by turns . 
What Rose said of Tom brought a shadow to his face , and as he walked rapidly toward Widow Simms ' , not limping now , or scarcely touching his cane to the ground , he thought of Tom , -- old Tomhe called him , -- wondering how much he had been interested in Annie Graham , and asking himself if it were just the thing for him to take advantage of Tom 's absence , and supplant him in the affections of one whom he might , perhaps , have won had he an opportunity . 
She must be twenty or more by this time , and a woman much like Annie . 
If I could find her , who knows that I might not like her best ? '' 
And for a moment Jimmie revolved the propriety of leaving Annie to Tom , while he sought for his first love of the Pequot House . 
But Annie Graham had made too strong an impression upon him to be given up for a former love , who might be dead for aught he knew , and so Tom was cast overboard , and Jimmie resumed his walk in the direction of Widow Simms ' cottage . 
The widow 's trunks were all packed and ready : every thing was done in the cottage which Annie could do , and with a tired flush on her cheek , a tumbled look about her hair , and a rent in the black dress , made by a nail on one of the boxes , Annie was waiting for the carriage , and half wishing , as she loked out into the bright moonlight , that she was going to walk home instead of riding . 
The fresh air would do her good , she thought , just as Jimmie appeared at the door . 
Annie 's cheeks were very red as she went for her shawl , and then bade good bye to Mrs. Simms , whom she did not expect to see on the morrow . 
He had turned into a long , grassy lane or newly opened street , where there were but few houses yet , and Annie knew the route would at least be a mile out of the way , but she could not resist the man who held her so closely to his side . 
She must hear what he had to say , and with an upward glance at the clear blue sky where she fancied George was looking down upon her , she nerved herself to listen . 
`` Annie , '' he began , `` I 've called you Mrs. Graham heretofore , but for to-night you must be Annie , even if you give me no right to call you by that name again . 
Annie , I have been a scamp , a wretch , a rebel , and almost everything bad . 
Annie asked suddenly , her voice ringing clear in the still night and making Jimmie start , there was something so quiet and determined in its tone . 
Still he had no suspicion that the woman beside him was the girl he had left on the beach at New London , and he continued : `` Yes , Annie , I did , as boys of seventeen love girls of fourteen . 
She was pretty and soft , and pure and good , and I kissed her once on her forehead , and then I went away and never saw her after , or knew what became of her . 
A fine character I give myself , and yet after all this I have dared to love you , Annie Graham , and I have brought you this way to ask if you will be my wife . 
Not now , of course : not before I go back ; but if I come through the war alive will you be mine then , Annie ? 
Annie was shaking in every joint , and the face which Jimmie tried in vain to see was white as ashes . 
She had expected something like this when he led her down that grassy lane , but nevertheless it came to her with a shock , making her feel as if in some way she had injured her dead husband by listening to another 's love . 
And still she could not at once repulse the young man whose arm was around her , and who had drawn her to a gap in a stone wall , where he made her sit down while she answered him . 
Strange feelings had swept over her as she heard Jimmie Carleton 's voice telling her how much she was beloved , -- how from the first moment he saw her he had been interested in her , and asking her again if she had anything to give the `` recreant Jim . '' 
He said the last playfully , but there was a great fear at his heart lest her silence portended evil to him . 
He was cruelly disappointed , for he had not believed Annie would refuse him as she had done . 
Annie knew he was offended , and when he spoke of Bill Baker , she said to him gently : `` You mistake me , Mr. Carleton . 
If necessary , I could do for William Baker more than I have done for you ; but it would only be from a sense of duty , -- there would be no pleasure in it ; while caring for you was a pleasure , because you are Mrs. Mather 's brother , and because , -- because -- '' She did not know how to finish the sentence , for she could not herself tell why it had of late been so pleasant for her to do for Jimmie Carleton those little acts of kindness which had devolved on her . 
She was only interested in him as a soldier , she insisted , and she tried to make him understand that her decision was final ; that were George dead a dozen years , she should give him the same answer as she did now . 
She could not be his wife . 
But Annie had no wish for revenge . 
She was only sorry for him , and she tried to comfort him with the assurance of her interest in him , and by telling him that , if ever he was sick in hospital or camp , and unable to come home , she would surely go to him as readily as if he were her brother . 
Jimmie did not particularly care for such comforting then , and his face , when he reached home , wore so dark and sorry a look that Rose , knew at once that something was wrong ; but she refrained from asking any questions then , -- feeling intuitively that both Annie and her brother would prefer to have her do so . 
It was a very grave , silent party which met at the breakfast table next morning , and only Annie was at all inclined to talk . 
She tried to be cheerful and appear as usual to the silent young man who never looked at her as she sat opposite him , with her smooth bands of hair so becomingly arranged , and her eyes so full of pity for him . 
She could not revoke her decision , but she was sorry to send him from her with that look upon his face ; and when , after breakfast , she met him for a few moments alone in the library , she laid her hand timidly upon his arm , and said , `` Jimmie , do n't be angry with me . 
She had never called him Jimmiebefore , in his hearing , and as she did it now , the dark , handsome face into which she was looking , flushed with a sudden joy , as if he thought she were relenting . 
But she was not ; she could only be his friend , -- his best friend , she repeated , and her face was very pale , as she told him how she should remember him , and work for him , and pray for him , when he was gone . 
And then she gave him her hand , saying to him , `` It is nearly time for you to go . 
And Jimmie took her hand , and , pressing it between his own , said to her : `` You have hurt me cruelly , Annie Graham , for I believed you cared for me ; but I can not hate you for it , though I tried to do so all night long . 
She did not refuse his request ; and when at last he left her there was a red spot on her cheek where Jimmie Carleton 's lips had been . 
From her window she watched him going down the walk ; and while with widow Simms he waited at the depot for the coming of the train , she on her knees was praying for him and his safety , just as , eighteen months before , she prayed for George when he was going from her . 
But not a word of Annie . 
He could not speak of her , with that unfinished letter lying in his little travelling writing-case , -- that letter commencing `` My dear Mrs. Graham , '' and over the wording of which Tom had spent more time by far than he did over the first epistle sent to Mary Williams . 
That had been dashed off in all the heat of a young man 's first ardent passion , just as Jimmie two weeks ago would have written to Annie . 
He looked , and seemed , and felt , full forty now , save when he thought of Annie , who was only twenty-one . 
He had made up his mind to write to her . 
A friendly letter the first should be , he said , -- a letter merely asking if she would correspond with him , and hinting at the interest he had felt in her ever since he saw how much she was to Rose , and how constant were her labors for the suffering soldiers . 
If her answer was favorable , he should ere long ask her to be his wife , and this is the way he took to win the woman whose name he would not mention to his brother . 
`` What had Annie said ? 
Perhaps she might relent . 
Rose said you were more suitable , and I know you are ; but , Tom , I did love Annie so much , after I had swallowed the first husband , which cost me a great effort , for a widow is not the beau ideal I used to cherish of my future wife . 
Tom , you do n't care for Annie , do you ? '' 
Tom would not deceive him then , and he replied , `` I have , -- that is , -- yes , I do care for her , and I had commenced a letter , but -- '' `` Do n't finish it , Tom . 
Jimmie exclaimed , eagerly , knowing now how the hope that Annie might relent had buoyed him up , and kept him from utter despondency . 
`` Do n't send it , Tom ; leave her to me , if I can win her yet . 
She may feel differently by and by : her husband is only one year dead . 
Let me have Annie , Tom , '' and Jimmie grew more vehement as he saw plainly the struggle in Tom 's mind . 
Think of your years of married life , when you were so happy , and leave Annie to me . 
At least do n't try to get her from me , -- not yet , -- wait a year . 
`` I will wait a year and see what that brings to us ; and you , Jimmie , must do the same , then Annie shall decide , '' he said at last , and his voice was so steady in its tone , and his manner so kind , that Jimmie never guessed how much it cost the man who `` had had his day , '' to unlock the little desk and take from it the letter intended for Annie Graham and commit it to the flames . 
`` Yes , I have had my day , '' Tom thought , as he gazed upon the fair , sweet face of her whose bright head had once lain where he had thought to have Annie 's lie . 
And so the compact was sealed between them , and Jimmie slept sounder on his soldier bed that night than he had slept before since Annie 's refusal . 
`` She might have refused him , too , and then again she might not ; at all events he had a right to try his luck , '' Jimmie reasoned , until at last his sense of justice triumphed and he wrote to Annie an account of the whole transaction . 
His letter found Annie sick in bed from the effects of a severe cold which kept her so long in her room that it was not till just on the eve of the battle of Fredericksburg that Jimmie received her answer , `` I should say No to your brother just as I did to you . '' 
The bullet which might strike down another would not harm him , and he charged his preservation mostly to Annie 's prayers for his safety ; but in this , her last brief note , she had not said so much as `` God bless you , '' and Jimmie 's heart beat faster as he thought of the impending danger . 
Jimmie seldom prayed , but if Annie had failed him he must try what he could do for himself , and when the night came down upon that vast army camping in the woods and on the hillside , it looked on one young face upturned to the wintry sky , and the moaning winds carried up to heaven the few words of prayer which Jimmie Carleton said . 
Oppressed with a strange feeling of foreboding , he prayed earnestly that God would blot out all his manifold transgressions , and if he died , -- grant him an entrance into heaven where Annie was sure to go . 
Two days passed , and then there came a telegram from Tom , and Mrs. Carleton , who read it first , gave a low , moaning cry , while Rose , who read it next , uttered a piercing shriek , and fell sobbing into Annie 's arms . 
was what she said , while Mrs. Carleton uttered Jimmie 's name , and then Annie knew that harm had come to him , and placing Rose upon the sofa , she took the paper from Mrs. Carleton 's hand , and read : `` Will was badly wounded , -- lay on the field all night ; -- Jimmie missing , -- supposed to be a prisoner . 
Annie whispered , sadly , her heart throbbing with pity for the young man who had gone back in time to meet so sad a fate . 
Never had so dark a day dawned upon Rose Mather as that which followed the arrival of Tom 's telegram , but ere its close there came a message of hope to her . 
`` Oh , Annie , God is so much better to me than I deserve ; I must love Him now , and I will , if He will only send Jimmie back , '' Rose said , while Annie 's heart went up in a prayer of thanksgiving for Mr. Mather 's comparative safety , and then went out after the poor prisoner , whose destination was as yet unknown . 
That night Rose started for Washington , and three days after there came to Annie a soiled , queer-looking missive , directed to `` Miss Widder Anny Graam , At Miss Martherses , '' the name written at the top of the letter , and the superscription spreading over so much surface , that , had there been another word , it must , from necessity , have been written on the other side of the letter . 
Annie whispered , and then , as Mrs. Carleton came in , she passed the note to her , and tried to comfort the poor mother , who , in Rose 's absence , leaned on her as on a daughter . 
Annie seemed very near the sorrowing woman , who wept bitterly for her poor boy , and in the first hours of her sorrow she spoke out what was in her mind . 
`` I believe Jimmie loved you , Annie , and that makes you very dear to me . 
We can mourn for him together , and , Annie , you will pray for him night and day , that God will bring him back to us . '' 
Annie could only reply by pressing the hand which sought hers , for her heart was too full to speak . 
Had Jimmie been dead she would scarcely have mourned for him more deeply than she did now . 
This was all the intelligence they could procure from him , until spring , when there came news direct that he p603-291 was at Salisbury , and there for a time the curtain dropped , leaving his face shrouded in darkness , while in his Northern home tears were shed like rain , and prayers went up to heaven from the quivering lips of a mother , who was just learning to pray as she ought , and into Annie Graham 's heart there gradually crept a wish that the poor , weary prisoner might know how much and how kindly she thought of him , feeling at times half sorry that she had not given him some little hope as a solace for the weary hours of his prison life . 
ROSE MATHER had brought her husband home as soon as it was safe to move him , and with the good nursing of Mrs. Carleton and Annie , he grew strong enough to rejoin his regiment in May , and the last which Rose heard from him directly was a few words hastily written and sent off to Washington just as the Army of the Potomac was moving on to Gettysburgh . 
Tom only staid a week , but he did them a world of good , and Annie felt she had never known one half how noble a man he was until she saw how tender he was with Rose , and how kind to his mother , whose heart was aching to its very core for her youngest son . 
Annie was sacred to Jimmie 's memory , and once , when talking with her of the captive , he alluded to what would probably be when Jimmie came home again . 
And Annie did not turn from him now , as she would once have done had such a thing been suggested . 
`` God only knows how I might feel , '' she said , and by the look in her blue eyes , and the tone of her voice , Tom knew there was no hope for him . 
WITH a howl of despair , Mrs. Baker came rushing into the kitchen of the Mather mansion , one morning in November , startling Annie with her vehemence as she thrust into her hand a dirty , half-worn envelope , which she said was from Bill , who had been missing since August , and who , it now appeared , was at Andersonville . 
`` Might better be dead , '' his mother said , and then she explained that the letter she brought Annie had come in one to herself received that morning from Bill . 
How he ever got it through the lines was a mystery which he did not explain ; nor did Annie care , inasmuch as it brought news direct from Jimmie . 
He had written to her with the pencil and on the sheet of paper Bill had brought him , for Bill Baker was employed outside the prison walls , and allowed many privileges which were denied to the poor wretches who crowded that swampy pen . 
In short , Bill had taken the Confederate oath , -- `` had done some tall swearin ' , '' as he wrote to Annie , giving as an excuse for the treasonable act , `` that he could n't stan ' the racket '' in that horrible place , where twenty thousand human beings were crowded together in a space of twenty-five acres , and part of that a marshy swamp , teeming with filth and scum , and hideous living things . 
It was with great difficulty that Annie could decipher the badly-written scrawl ; but she made it out at last , and then took Jimmie 's letter next , shuddering as she saw in it marks of the horrors which Bill had described but faintly , and which were fully corroborated by Jimmie himself . 
`` My dear Annie , '' he wrote , `` I do not know that this letter will ever reach you . 
Oh , Annie , you can never know what I have suffered from hunger and thirst , and exposure and filth , which makes my very blood curdle and creep , and from that weary homesickness which more than aught else kills the poor boys around me . 
I call it ` Annie , ' and I watch its coming as eagerly as did the little boy , who died just as the star reached the zenith and was shining down upon him . 
Write to her , Annie , and tell her how Johnny died in the firm hope of meeting her again in heaven . 
Tell her he did not suffer much pain , -- only a weakness , which wasted his life away . 
Tell her the keepers were kind to him , and brought him ice-water several times . 
Tell her , too , of the star at which he gazed so long as he had strength . 
`` Oh , Annie , was it a lie Bill Baker told me , or did you really send me your love , and say that you meant it ? 
Have you relented , and if I could ask you again the question I asked a year ago , when we sat together beneath the moonlight , would you tell me yes?Darling Annie , Andersonville is not so terrible since I am kept up by that hope . 
I do not mind now if my shoes and stockings are all gone , and my trowsers nearly so , and I watch for that star so eagerly , and make believe that it is you , and when the dark clouds obscure it , and the rain is falling upon my unsheltered head , I say that it is Annie 's tears , and do not mind that either . 
I pray , too , Annie , -- pray with my heart , I hope , though my prayers have more to do with you than myself . 
Annie showed both letters to Mrs Carleton , who , when she read them , wound her arms around Annie 's neck and whispered , `` Is it wrong for me to be glad that Bill Baker told that lie , when by the means our prisoner boy is so greatly benefited . '' 
Annie could not tell . 
She was not sorry that Jimmie should think of her as he did , and that night when the stars came out in the sky she looked tearfully up at them , wondering which was the one watched for by the childish young man , and the little boy who died . 
Mrs. Carleton had taken it for granted that if Jimmie came back Annie would be her daughter , and she clung to her with a love and tenderness second only to what she felt for Rose . 
She had listened with some degree of interest to such portions of Jimmie 's letter as Annie chose to read to her , but it had no power to rouse her from the state of apathy into which she had fallen . 
She never smiled now , and rarely spoke except to answer a question , but sat all day by the window in her own room , and looked away to the southward , where all her thoughts were centered . 
It was very strange that nothing could be heard of her husband except that he was shot down dead . 
Once Rose had been startled from her stupor by a soldier , who pretended to have seen her husband in one of the Southern prisons , but a closer examination proved that the man was intoxicated , and had told what he did in the hope that money might be given him for the intelligence , and then Rose sank back into her former condition , the same hopeless look in her eyes which had been there from the moment she heard her husband 's name among the killed , and the same look of anguish upon her face which never relaxed a muscle , as she watched indifferently the preparations made by her mother and Annie for an event which under other circumstances would have stirred every pulsation of her heart . 
But when on Christmas morning , the bell from St. Luke 's was sending forth its joyous peal for the child born in Bethlehem more than eighteen hundred years ago , there came a softer , more natural look to Rose 's eyes , and her lip quivered a little as she said to Annie , who was bending over her , `` What is that sound in the next room like the crying of a baby ? '' 
Annie hoped , by mentioning both the father and Jimmie , to awaken some interest in the little mother , whose eyes grew larger , and rounder , and brighter , as she whispered : `` My baby , I ca n't understand . 
How came I with a baby , Annie ? 
And so one bright Sunday morning in March , when St. Luke 's was decked with flowers from the Mather hot-house , and the children of the Sunday School sang their Easter carols , Rose Mather , in her widow 's weeds , went up the aisle , with her mother , Annie , and brother Tom , the latter of whom gave her bright-eyed , beautiful boy to the rector , who baptized him `` James Carleton . '' 
And all through the congregation there ran a thrill of pity for the widowed mother , whose face , though it had lost some of its brilliant color , was more beautiful than ever , for there was shining all over it the light of a new joy , the peace which comes from sins forgiven , and , after the baptism was over and the morning service read , Rose knelt with her mother , brother , and Annie , to receive , for the first time , the precious symbols of a Saviour 's dying love . 
Rose had ceased to oppose Annie in her wish to join Mrs. Simms , who was then at Annapolis ; and when Tom , a few days after the baptism , went back again , Annie would go with him as a regular hospital nurse . 
It might be that Jimmie would be among the number of skeletons sent up to `` God 's land , '' as the poor fellows called it ; and Annie 's heart throbbed with the pleasure it would be to minister to him , to call the life back to his p603-303 heart , to awaken an interest in him for olden times , and then , perhaps , whisper to him that the decision made that moonlight night , more than a year and a half ago , had been revoked and where she had said no , her answer now was yes . 
Jimmie , and Annie , and poor Tom , too , is a prisoner at last , so mother and I are all alone , except '' -- Just then it occurred to her that her husband had no suspicion of the great joy in store for him . 
Exchanged prisoners were constantly arriving at Annapolis , where both Mrs. Simms and Annie were , and every letter from the latter was eagerly torn open by Rose in hopes that it might contain some news of her brothers . 
But there was none , and the mourning garments which , with her husband 's return , were exchanged for lighter , airier ones , seemed only laid aside for a few weeks until word should come that one or both of her brothers were with the dead whose graves were far away beneath a Southern sky . 
She was very tall , Tom thought , comparing her with Mary , Annie , and petite Rose as she walked across the piazza with Arthur , who , from comparison seemed the shorter of the two . 
`` Not directly , but when he was out of his head , or asleep , he talked of Rose , and Annie , and Mary , and he called the latter his wife . 
She was so wholly unlike Mary and Rose and Annie , that comparison between them was impossible . 
She was Miss De Vere , -- Maude he called her to himself , and the name was beginning to sound sweetly to him , as he daily grew more and more intimate with the queenly creature who bore it . 
He had buried his pale , proud-faced , but loving Mary ; he had given up the gentle Annie , and surely he might think of Maude De Vere if he chose ; and the sight of her sitting there before him with the rich color in her cheek , and the Southern fire in her eyes , stirred strange feelings in his heart , and made him so forgetful of what the Judge was saying to him , that the old man at last rose and walked away , leaving the two young people alone together . 
Then there came a pause , and Tom was thinking of a night when poor Jimmie sat by his side before the lonely tent fire , and talked with him of Annie Graham . 
Yes , he would ; and by the even beating of his heart , as he made that resolve , and thought of Annie , he knew he had outlived his fancy for one of whom he spoke unhesitatingly , praising her girlish beauty , telling how pure and good she was , and how once a hope had stirred his heart that he , perhaps , might win her . 
Annie will be my sister , and I know now why it was so appointed . 
God had in store for me a gem as beautiful as Annie Graham , and better adapted to me . 
He had her head now on his arm , and with his hand was smoothing her bands of satin hair , while he waited for her to speak . 
He had dealt honestly with her . 
She would be equally truthful with him , and she answered at last : `` Oh , Mr. Carleton , you do n't know how much it pains me to tell you what I must . 
Tom spoke very low , with his lips close to her burning cheek , but Maude did not reply , and Tom continued : `` Maude , was the getting me here in safety any part of the price for which you sold yourself ? '' 
Tom was about to speak to her , when she turned abruptly upon him , and said : `` Captain Carleton , do you believe your Northern women , -- your Rose , your Annie would bear and brave what the loyal women of the South endure ? 
While we in the mountains of Tennessee were tracing the wanderings of Will Mather and Captain Carleton , Mrs. Simms and Annie had stood untiringly at their posts beside the sick and dying soldiers who had learned to bless and watch for the stern widow , and to love and worship the beautiful Annie Graham . 
And well had she earned such appreciation , for she had been most faithful to the wretched ones committed to her care , -- faithful both to body and soul , and in the better world she knew there was waiting to welcome her more than one , whose darkened mind she had led to the fountain of all light . 
And Annie had made a vow to stay till from that foul Southern prison , where 28,000 men had died , there came to her the onefor whom she always looked so anxiously when new arrivals came , her blue eyes running rapidly over each wasted form , and then filling with tears when the scrutiny was found to be in vain . 
James Carleton had never been heard from since that letter sent to her so long ago , and hope had died out of Annie 's heart , when at last , with Widow Simms , she stood by the cot where lay the insensible form of which the physician had spoken so discouragingly . 
The latter were closed now , and only the lids moved with a convulsive motion , as Annie bent over him . 
The dark hair , matted and coarse and filthy , had curled in rings about the bony forehead , but had been cut away when the bath was given , and the closely shorn head was like many other heads which Annie Graham 's hands had touched , gently , tenderly , as they now moved over this one , trying to infuse some life into the breathing skeleton . 
He was to be her charge , -- he was in her division and Mrs. Simms ' keen grey eyes scanned Annie curiously as she bent over the poor fellow . 
He was helpless as an infant , and Annie nursed him much as she would have nursed a baby whose life hung on a thread . 
But at the close of the fourth day , as Annie sat chafing the pulseless fingers where the grey skin hung so loosely , the eyes opened for a moment and were fixed upon her face . 
There was no consciousness in them , -- no recognition of her presence , nothing but the strained , hungry , despairing look Annie had seen in the eyes of somany of our prisoners , and which to a greater or less degree was peculiar to them all . 
Annie saw this look , and then underneath it all she saw something more , -- whatit was she could not tell , but it brought back to her those moonlight nights upon the beach at New London , and that other night of more recent date , when she sat with Jimmie Carleton beneath the Rockland sky and heard his passionate words of love , and saw his soft , black eyes kindle with earnestness and then grow sad and sorrowful with disappointment . 
There was no kindling in them now , -- no ardent passion or heat of love , -- but a certain softness and brightness , and even sauciness , lingered still and told Annie at last who it was . 
she said , and unmindful of any who might be looking on , she bent down and kissed the sunken cheeks from which the flesh was gone . 
She had expected him so long , and grown so weary and hopeless with expectations unfulfilled , that she could scarcely believe it now , or realize that the half dead wretch before her was once the lively , humorous , teasing Jimmie Carleton . 
How she pitied him , and how her heart throbbed as she thought of the suffering he must have endured ere he reached this state of apparent imbecility . 
Then , as she remembered what the physician said about his mind , she dropped upon her knees , and clasping her hands over her face , prayed earnestly that God would remove the darkness and wholly restore the man whom she loved so dearly . 
she asked Mrs. Simms , who had come for a moment to her side . 
I mistrusted from the first , '' Mrs. Simms answered , and then to Annie 's eager questioning she replied , `` It will be almost a miracle if we do get any sense into that brain , or flesh upon these bones , but we 'll do the best we can . '' 
Her words were not very encouraging , and Annie 's tears fell like rain upon the face of the man who gave no sign that he knew where he was , or who was bending over him . 
She would do it so gently , and so kindly , and in his dreams the walls of his pestilential prison stretched away to the green fields of the North , where he walked again with Annie , and felt the clasp of her little hand , and the light of her blue eyes . 
She was always present with him , -- she or the little Lulu , of Pequot memory . 
Somehow these two were strangely mixed , and when his mind began to totter as the physical strain on it became too great , the two faces were united in one body , and both bent lovingly over him , just as Annie Graham was doing now when he was past knowing or caring who ministered to him . 
Gradually , too , there came a different look upon his face ; the color was changing from the dingy gray , to a more life-like hue ; flesh was showing a little beneath the skin , and the dark hair began to grow , and Annie watered the tiny curls with bitter tears , for , as proof of the terrible life whose horrors will never half be written , the once black hair was coming out streaked with grey . 
They knew in Rockland that he was at Annapolis , but Annie had peremptorily forbidden either Mrs. Carleton or Rose to come . 
`` They could do no good , '' she wrote . 
They were constantly expecting Tom from Tennessee , with Mande De Vere and her friends , and so they remained at home the more willingly , enjoining it upon Annie to write them every day , just a line to tell how Jimmie was . 
The summer rain was falling softly upon the streets of Annapolis , and the cool evening air came stealing into the room , where Annie Graham sat by her patient . 
There were not so many now in her ward , and she had more time for Jimmie , by whose bedside every leisure moment was passed . 
She was sitting by him now , watching him as he slept , and listening breathlessly to his low murmurings as he seemed to be talking of her and the dreadful prison-life . 
Then he slept more soundly , and she arranged the light so that it left his face in shadow , but fell full upon her own . 
Half an hour passed in this way , and Annie 's head was beginning to droop from languor and drowsiness , when a sudden exclamation startled her , and she looked up to see her patient 's eyes fixed upon her , while with his finger he pointed to the window opposite , and whispered , `` The star , it 's risen again , when I thought it had set forever . 
Did he think himself in prison still , with that star shining over him , and did he take her for Bill Baker ? 
The thought was not a very complimentary one , but Annie forgot everything in her joy , at this evidence of returning reason . 
`` Jimmie , '' she said softly , and she bent her face so close to his , that her lips touched his forehead , `` Jimmie , do n't you know that you are in Annapolis , with me , with Annie Graham . 
You remember Annie ? '' 
She had many a time said these very words in his ear , hoping somehow to impress them upon him , and now she had succeeded , for he repeated them after her slowly , and with long pauses , like a school-boy trying to say a half-learned lesson . 
`` Jimmie -- do n't you -- know -- that you -- are here -- in -- Annapolis -- with me -- with -- Annie -- Graham -- You remember -- Annie ? '' 
And as he said them consciousness began to struggle back , -- the black eyes fastened themselves upon Annie with a wistful look ; then they took in her dress , her hands folded in her lap , the decent covering on the bed , the furniture of the room , and then throwing up his arms he felt of his flesh , and examined his linen , and patted the pillow , while still the look of wonder and perplexity deepened on his face . 
Suddenly he let his arms drop helplessly , then stretched them feebly towards Annie , and while both chin and lip quivered touchingly , and the tears streamed from his eyes , he whispered , `` Clean face , clean hands , soft pillow and bed , with the hunger , and thirst , and home-sickness gone . 
It 's I , -- it 's Annie , '' Mrs. Graham would say to him , as his restless eyes turned upon her , and he would repeat after her , `` Do n't you -- know -- me , Jimmie ? 
It 's I , -- it 's Annie . '' 
At first the physician refused , but Annie approved the plan , hoping for a good result , and she waited anxiously , while Bill said cheerily , `` Hallo , old Cop ` ral . 
Annie was called away just then , to attend to another patient , and Bill was left alone with Jimmie . 
There were a few broken sentences from the latter , and then Bill Baker was heard talking rapidly , but very gently and cautiously , and Jimmie lifted his head once and looked across the room where Annie was . 
`` Better leave him alone a spell , till he thinks it out , and gets it arranged , '' Bill said to Annie . 
It was more than an hour before Annie went to Jimmie again , but when she did , the eager , joyful look in his eyes told her that she was recognized . 
`` Do n't speak to me , -- do n't talk , '' she said , laying one hand lightly upon the lips , which began to move , while with the other she smoothed the short curls of hair . 
Do you '' -- He did not finish the sentence , for Annie understood him , and bending so near to him that no one else could hear , she said : `` Yes , Jimmie , -- I do . '' 
He seemed satisfied , and something of his old manner came back to him when , later in the day , Annie tried to straighten the clothes about him , and wet and brushed his hair . 
`` Not half as much as you did , '' Annie replied ; and the first smile her face had worn for weeks glimmered around her lips , for she knew now the danger was past , and Jimmie Carleton would live . 
Queenly was the word which best suited her looks and her manners , and Rose paid homage to her as to a queen , and told her that she loved her , and how much she had thought of her , and how anxious her mother was to see her , and how happy they would all be when Jimmie and Annie came home . 
Matters were in this wise when the day came on which Annie was expected home with Jimmie . 
In Rockland there was more than one prisoner who had been nursed by Annie Graham , and her name was spoken with reverence and love by the veriest vagabond that walked the streets . 
Bill Baker , who had been home for a week , and was as usual the most active spirit of all , suggested that when they flung out the banner on which was inscribed , `` Honor and welcome to Annie Graham , '' they should give three cheers for Mr. Carleton too . 
Annie had appeared by this time , and at sight of her the tongues were loosened , and deafening shouts of welcome greeted her on every side . 
The flag bearing her name was held aloft , the cannon in the adjoining field sent forth its bellowing roar , and the band struck up the sweet refrain of `` Annie Laurie ; '' while the voices of the Andersonville prisoners , who had been Annie 's charge , sang the last line : `` And for bonnie Annie GrahamI would lay me down and die . '' 
Surely this was a coming home which Annie had never looked for , and with her face flushed with excitement , and her eyes shining with tears , she stood in the midst of the shouting throng , gazing wonderingly from one to the other , and realizing nothing clearly , except the firm clasp upon her arm . 
It was Jimmie 's hand , and Jimmie himself leaned upon her , as the crowd coupled his name with hers , and hurrahed for `` James Carleton and Annie Graham . '' 
`` And the Widder Simms , -- I swan if it 's fair to leave her out . 
She did some tall nussin ' down to Annapolis , '' Bill Baker said ; and then the widow was cheered , and she acknowledged the compliment with a grim smile , and wondered when `` folks would quit making fools of themselves , and if Susan was n't up there , somewhere , in the jam . 
The same house it was at which Annie Graham had looked with longing eyes , in the commencement of the war ; and in the pleasant chamber which overlooked the town there was a little boywho had been in Rockland only a week , and whose existence was as yet unknown to the widow . 
And while the widow kissed and wept over her grandson , and felt herself growing young , and soft , and gentle again , the crowd around the depot had dispersed , a part going to their own homes , and a part following the soldiers and band which escorted Annie Graham and Jimmie Carleton to the Mather mansion , where everything had been made so beautiful for them . 
It was a pleasant coming home , and a most ample compensation for all the weariness and privation which Annie , as hospital nurse , had endured , and she felt that far more was awarded to her than she deserved . 
`` Mr. Carleton was the one to be honored , '' she said , and her soft , blue eyes rested upon the pale , tired man , who , exhausted with his journey and the excitement , lay down at once upon the sofa , while his mother and Rose knelt beside him and kissed , and pitied , and cried over his poor white face , and long , bony hands , which were almost transparent in their whiteness . 
She had been greatly interested in all the arrangements , and was curious to see the woman who had almost been her rival , while Annie was quite as curious to see her , the heroine of the mountains . 
In her letters to Annie , Rose had purposely refrained from mentioning Tom 's name with Maude 's , so that Annie was ignorant of the real state of things . 
But she did not remain so long . 
she said to Rose , when , after supper , they were all assembled in the parlor , and Maude was the subject of conversation . 
`` Ask Tom ; he can tell you , '' Rose replied , and by the conscious look on Tom 's face , Annie guessed the truth at once . 
Would it do me any good to try and win Annie now ? '' 
THE next day brought Maude De Vere , looking so handsome in her black dress , with her coquettish drab hat and long drab feather tipped with scarlet , that she reminded Annie of some bright tropical flower as she came into the room with the sparkle in her brilliant eyes , and the deep , rich bloom upon her cheek . 
She had regained her health and spirits rapidly within the last few weeks , and even Jimmie , who seldom saw beyond Annie 's fair face and soft blue eyes , drew a breath of wonder at the queenly girl who completely overshadowed those around her so far as size and form and physical development were concerned . 
But nothing could detract from the calm , quiet dignity of Annie 's manner , or from the pure , angelic beauty of her face , and as the two stood holding each other 's hands and looking into each other 's eyes , they made a most striking tableau , and Mrs. Carleton thought , with a thrill of pride , how well her sons had chosen . 
The next afternoon , while Tom was with Maude , and both Mrs. Carleton and Rose were out on a shopping expedition , Annie sat alone with Jimmie in the pleasant little room which had been given to him as a place where he would be more quiet than in the parlor . 
Annie had been playing with Rose 's boy , -- the little Jimmie , a handsome , sturdy fellow of nearly a year old , whom the entire household spoiled . 
He was already beginning to talk , and having taken a fancy to Annie , he tried to call her name , and made out of it a tolerably distinct `` Auntee , '' which brought a blush to Annie 's face , and a teasing smile to Jimmie 's . 
`` Come , sit by me a moment , Annie , '' Jimmie said , when the child had been taken out by his nurse . 
He was lying upon the couch , and Annie was sitting at his side and so near to him that his long fingers could smooth and caress her shining hair , while his saucy eyes feasted themselves upon her face , as he asked `` when she would really be the auntie of the little boy who called her now by that name . '' 
`` Not till you are able to stand alone , '' was Annie 's reply , and then , for the first time since his return from Andersonville , Jimmie spoke of that episode in his life at New London , when little Lulu Howard had stirred his boyish blood , and filled his boyish fancy . 
`` Perhaps he wanted to tease Annie , for he said to her : `` I didlike that little blue-eyed Lu , -- that 's a fact . 
I used to think about her all day , and dream about her all night . 
I wonder where she is now . '' 
Annie asked , and Jimmie replied : `` I believe I would go miles to see her , just to know what kind of a woman she has developed into . 
Annie 's cheeks were very red by this time , and imputing her heightened color to a cause widely different from the real one , Jimmie drew her face down to his , and kissing the burning cheeks , said : `` Of course I should take you with me , when I went after little Lu . '' 
`` You would hardly find her if you did not , '' Annie said , while Jimmie looked inquiringly at her . 
Annie had only been waiting for Jimmie to speak of the little Pequot , before making her own confession , and she now said to him abruptly : `` Did Lulu look any like me ? '' 
Annie , Annie , tell me , -- was she , -- do you , -- are you '' -- Jimmie began , raising himself upright upon the couch , as something in Annie 's expression began to puzzle and mystify him . 
Annie asked . 
My name was Annie Louise Howardbefore I married George . 
His name was not Dick Lee '' -- `` But , Annie , '' Jimmie began , and Annie stopped him , saying : `` Wait , Jimmie , till I am through . 
`` Poor Annie ! 
Jimmie said , as he clasped one of Annie 's hands in his own , and his voice expressed all the sorrow and tenderness he felt for Annie , who continued : `` Such childish loves are usually short-lived , you know , but mine was the first pleasant dream I had known since my parents died , and I went to my Aunt Belknap , in New Haven . 
Annie was very beautiful in her excitement as she paid this tribute to her deceased husband , and Jimmie saw that she was beautiful , but felt relieved when she left George Graham , and spoke of Rose , who had come to her like an angel of light , and made the burden easier to bear . 
We have a long life to look forward to , and I thank God for it ; but most of all , I thank Him for giving me my darling Annie , -- my dear little Lulu ! 
Mrs. Carleton had thought it better not to add to Rose 's excitement by telling her who Annie was , while Jimmie 's fate was shrouded in so much gloom ; then , after his return , she decided that Annie should have the satisfaction of telling herself , and thus Rose was still in ignorance with regard to Annie 's identity with the Pequot . 
But Annie told her that night , and Rose 's eyes were like stars , as she smothered Annie with kisses , and declared it was all like some strange story she had read . 
So they made him as comfortable as possible at the hotel , and Rose and Annie came every day to see him ; and he learned to watch and listen for their coming , especially that of Annie , to whom he took the kindliest . 
She knew just how to nurse him , and as she once cared for the poor prisoners , so she now cared for the Southern boy , who , while acknowledging the kindness of the Northern people , was still as thorough a Secessionist as he had ever been . 
Occasionally , as the shouts grew louder , he stopped his ears , so as to shut out what seemed to him like exultations over the death of so many hopes ; but when Annie came in , and told Maude of the bonfire they were to have that night in Mrs. Simms ' yard , and asked her to come for the sake of the boy whose box was to be burned , Charlie began to listen . 
She knew that he had been captured by Arthur Tunbridge , but she did not know the particulars of his prison life , or how generously Tom had sacrificed his chance of liberty for the sake of the poor , sick boy , until Annie told the story , to which she listened with swimming eyes and a heart throbbing with love and respect for her lover , who had been so noble and unselfish . 
She would go to the bonfire on the grass-plat , she said ; and Charlie should go too . 
And neither Maude nor Annie contradicted him , though the eyes of the former flashed indignantly , and her nostrils quivered as they always did when the sufferings of our prisoners were mentioned in her presence . 
Annie was almost constantly with him now . 
He felt better and stronger with her , he said , and death was not so terrible . 
So , just as she had soothed , and comforted , and nursed many a poor fellow from Andersonville , Annie comforted and nursed Charlie De Vere , until that dreadful Saturday when the telegraphic wires brought up from the South the appalling news that our President was dead , -- murdered by the assassin 's hand . 
`` Perhaps they would stop if you were to ask them , and tell them why , '' Annie suggested to Maude ; but Charlie , who heard it , exclaimed , `` No , let them toll on . 
Maude and Annie , Paul Haverill and Tom Carleton watched with him through the night , and just as the beautiful Easter morning broke , and the sunlight fell upon the Rockland hills , the boy who to the last had remained true to the Southern cause , lay dead among the people who had been his foes . 
It was a double wedding at St. Luke 's , and Maude and Annie were the brides . 
There was a great crowd to witness the ceremony , and Annie 's `` boys '' whom she had nursed at Annapolis , were the first to offer their congratulations to Mrs. James Carleton , who looked so fair and pure and lovely , while Maude , whose beauty was of a more brilliant order , seemed to sparkle and flash as she bent her stately head in response to the greetings given to her . 
Their destination was Nashville , where , in Maude 's beautiful home , Jimmie and Annie passed a few delightful weeks , and then returned to Boston to the old Carleton house on Beacon Street , which had been fitted up for their reception . 
Mrs. Carleton , senior , divides her time between her three childrem , Tom , Jimmie and Rose , but her home proper is with Annie , in Boston , where there is now a little `` Lulu Graham , '' six months old , and where Rose and Will often go , while each summer Tom Carleton comes up from Fair Oaks with his beautiful Maude , the heroine of the Cumberland Mountains . 
