WhenJason Auster married Sarah Parke he was twenty years old , and a house-carpenter . 
As he was not of age , he made some agreement with a hard father by which liberty was gained , and a year 's wages lost . 
He left his native village filled with no adventurous spirit , but with a simple confidence that he should find the place where he could earn a living by his trade , and put in practice certain theories concerning the rights of men and property which had already made him a pest at home . 
The stage-coach which conveyed him thence , traversed a line of towns that made no impression from his point of view -- the coach window ; but when it stopped to change horses at Crest , a lively maritime town , and he alighted to stretch his cramped legs , he saluted Destiny . 
Its aspect , that spring day , pleased him ; he heard the rain of blows from broad-axes in the ship-yards by the water 's edge , and saw new roofs and chimneys rising along the irregular streets among the rows of ancient houses , and concluded to stay . 
He unstrapped a small trunk from the stage-rack , carried it into the tavern entry , and looked about him for some one to address . 
`` I wish it had been you , Sarah Parke , '' she exclaimed . 
`` The Parke family are next to the Lord , in this county , though it is not what it was once . 
I wonder what has come over this Sarah lately ? 
Opposite him , in the place of honor , sat Jane Moss and Sarah Parke ; he soon discovered that Sarah was no more of a singer than himself , though her lips moved , and her eyes followed the notes . 
A moment after , Jason was introduced to Sarah , and shook hands with her modestly , and walked beside her without attempting conversation ; he waited for her to address him . 
Then it was rumored that he spent whole evenings there , playing backgammon with Sarah , or whist with the Squire . 
And finally the town was surprised to hear that Jason and Sarah were to be married . 
The household consisted now of six persons ; the Squire , Sarah , his grand-daughter , Elsa Bowen , a middle-aged woman who had lived with the second wife of the Squire for years , as housekeeper , friend , and fourth cousin , a hired man , `` Cuth , '' who had been in the Squire 's employ from a boy , a youth named Gilbert , and Jason himself . 
As soon as his grandmother was buried he announced his determination to leave home , and although the Squire cried and reproached him for being like his uncle , Sarah 's father , who had deserted home years ago , Osmond persisted in his resolution . 
He must have freedom , he said ; he had paid his respects to the family myths long enough , and he would transfer the duty to Sarah , who believed in them , and whose authority with them would more than compensate for the loss of himself . 
Osmond gave a look which silenced her , till the Squire rose , struck his came on the floor , and with an emphatic `` Go , '' left the room ; then she burst out with , `` You 'd better try your luck with Sarah ; she wo n't take it so easy . '' 
He knew better than Elsa how Sarah would take the news of his departure , but he carried them to her with a reckless audacity that would have silenced any ordinary opposition . 
But Sarah was not an ordinary person ; a conflict took place which left both torn , bleeding , breathless ; in one sense , however , he was the conqueror , for he went away in spite of it . 
In Sarah 's mind his image was not confused . 
When she told Sarah they were as dry as a bone , she looked agitated , and begged her never to speak of them again . 
After Sarah 's child was born she spoke of Osmond for the first time to Jason , as a half-cousin , who bore no resemblance in character or looks to herself . 
She named her boy `` Parke . '' 
He was a Parke , every inch of him , she remarked to Jason , and asked him to notice how much his hands were shaped like her grandfather 's . 
`` Do you consider yourself a Parke ? '' 
The thump of a cane was heard , and Sarah said , `` Here he comes , you can ask him . '' 
If Sarah had been imaginative she might have mused on the picture before her -- baby Parke , aged three weeks , and the Squire , eighty-four years . 
She combed his long silvery locks till she was ready to faint with fatigue , and till Parke woke up with a cry . 
WhenJason saw Sarah 's executive ability as the mistress and manager of her grandfather 's establishment , in doors and out , and comprehended the absolute position of the Squire , he felt the impotence of his crude ideas , and his individual isolation . 
When Sarah requested him to give up his trade , he replied that it was better to be a carpenter than to live by the extortions of commerce , or an undue proportion of land ; whereat she laughed so loud he discovered that some of her teeth were as sharp-pointed as needles , and that they gave her a tigerish look . 
The fourth year of his marriage came , and the Squire still lived ; he went his daily rounds over his possessions in his chaise , accompanied by Cuth , smoked , dozed , played with little Parke , and listened affably to all Sarah had to say . 
In the early morning of an autumn day , Sarah , always up betimes , heard a strange babbling noise as she passed his door . 
When Sarah went back , Elsa was busy making a fire . 
Sarah took her by the hand , and led her into the Squire 's bedroom , and Elsa understood all . 
Sarah dropped on the floor beside him , and buried her face in the bedclothes . 
Can you dress Parke ? 
I 've got to go right down again , and Sarah wo n't think of any thing , except her grandfather . '' 
Jason dressed , and sat down by Parke 's crib . 
`` Gilbert , '' said Jason , giving his first order , `` go up stairs and watch Parke . '' 
Sarah 's eyes were fixed on the Squire 's face , and she made no reply to him . 
`` Sarah , '' said Jason , in a firm voice , that compelled her attention , `` your grandfather is leaving life without suffering . '' 
`` Come , Sarah , '' called Elsa , `` come to breakfast , do . 
Parke was awake , and in high glee . 
`` No , '' Parke answered , hopping out on one foot . 
Sarah heard the patter of his feet , and rose to lead him to the bed . 
`` He is n't poor , '' said Parke . 
It was the third time , she soliloquized , that she had shoved things about for a funeral since she had been in the house ; the first happened ten years ago , and was that of Sarah 's mother , the wife of Osmond Parke , and if ever there was a creature ready to go , she was . 
Cuth remained in the kitchen as a watcher ; Jason took care of Parke , up stairs , and Sarah stayed alone with the Squire . 
About four o'clock , he spoke clearly , but hurriedly , and without a motion , these words : `` It all comes to this , Sarah . '' 
It was late in the afternoon before the house was emptied of visitors , and then a dreadful blank was felt which neither Jason nor Sarah could endure . 
She wrapped Parke in a shawl , and took him into the garden . 
Parke begged to go up there , and she carried him in her arms . 
`` It is only the sunset , Parke , '' and she began to cry as she had not cried since the Squire died . 
She was unmindful of the beautiful bay , whose wide limits could be seen from the hill-top , -- of the splendid western sky , of the red harvest moon rising in the gray east , of the swallows circling round the hill , of the faint columns of smoke ascending from the chimneys of the town , -- unmindful even of Parke , who , regardlesss of her weeping , slipped down from the rock , and played among the fallen leaves . 
There should be , she said , no gloomy corners that night for Sarah 's eyes to wander in . 
She seemed to be over and in every dish , with a comfortable bustle which exhilarated Parke and soothed Sarah . 
Sarah informed Jason of the fact when she felt obliged to call upon him for aid ; until she did he asked no question concerning the property , -- then he assumed the whole control of it . 
This was considered as a thorough break-up in the town of the family interest , and Sarah winced more than once at his innovations ; but believing in his plain sense , and that he was probably considering Parke 's future , she compelled herself not to interfere . 
`` I do n't recollect of any Parke 's having so much before . 
Of course , it will go to my Parke ? '' 
She blushed , because she wished Parke and herself to owe him nothing . 
But one day , the day that Parke was nine years old , Sarah beheld , `` sitting at the king 's gate , '' her cousin and co-heir , Osmond Luce , who had been absent twelve years . 
Day to be remembered in the annals of Sarah 's experiences -- as well remembered as the day he left his grandfather 's house ! 
Sarah , Sarah , I have come thousands of miles with this girl , -- she is mine , -- to leave her on ancestral ground . 
I am Parke ; this house is mine . '' 
`` You 'd better go home , '' Parke said . 
`` I did n't ask , '' Parke answered , `` but she has come to stay . '' 
`` If I choose to go in , I shall , '' replied Parke in the mildest , most indifferent of voices . 
Parke followed them at once to the parlor . 
It was dark there , and perhaps Jason did not see Sarah 's compressed lips , nor the red spot on her cheeks ; but he divined who the stranger was before she introduced him . 
`` Mother , '' said Parke , `` this little girl flew in as the pigeon did , but we must feed her . '' 
`` I do not think that I am a rascal , '' answered Parke ; `` but here I am . '' 
`` And his name , '' said Jason , `` is Parke . '' 
`` Where could Sarah have picked up that man ? '' 
`` I like you , '' Parke declared , satisfied with his inspection . 
When her father kissed Parke , she moved her eyes as if seeking to escape something painful . 
`` What did Sarah say , Osmond ? 
`` You did not expect to find Sarah married , either . '' 
she cried , for Sarah came in with a jar of preserves . 
`` Elsa is the same , Osmond , '' said Sarah . 
`` Ask Sarah , '' and he rushed out . 
He wants the Parke money , I suppose . '' 
Sarah 's eyes flashed , and her shining black ringlets set up a dance round her forehead . 
Oh pest and the deuce take this teapot nose , it is choked with teagrounds , '' continued Elsa , not appearing to notice Sarah , who said , after a moment 's silence , putting the jar on the table with a hand which Elsa saw was trembling , `` These grapes are for tea . '' 
`` The fathers have n't eaten the grapes this time , '' said Elsa , turning the jar round in her hands , after Sarah had gone , `` to set the children 's teeth on edge . 
Sarah has got fangs , fangs , I tell you , '' tapping the jar sharply ; `` and yet she remembers that Osmond liked grape preserves ! '' 
Sarah Parke is sharp , but she do n't bind folks to her ; and she is too likely a woman to be afraid of , -- or -- to be , to be -- '' `` Loved , '' added Osmond . 
Sarah watched him with a restless , furtive eye , which betrayed to him her unquiet soul . 
Will you share in it , Sarah ? '' 
`` Perhaps Philippa would like some , '' said Sarah ; `` she has your taste , Osmond , undoubtedly . '' 
`` Philippa is an outlandish name , '' said Sarah , still at the table . 
Philippa shrugged her shoulders , and fixed her brown eyes upon Sarah , who could not repress a thrill of irritation . 
`` Philippa , Ippa , Ippa , Philippa , '' Parke sang . 
`` Parke , '' ordered Sarah , `` go to bed . '' 
`` Go into the kitchen , then , '' Sarah begged . 
Sarah was curious enough to muffle herself in a shawl , and dash out to Jason 's office down the street to see if there was a light there . 
Parke had gone to bed , probably , under Elsa 's supervision ; the house was too still for him to be awake . 
`` No matter where they are , '' Sarah replied , with a stamp of her foot . 
`` Sarah has supposed you would not return ; I thought you might . 
`` Sarah would not have it so , '' he resumed . 
Excuse me , I shall not find a man I dare be so frank with again ; -- how came you and Sarah to marry ? '' 
He could not escape , however , the spirit of the past which Sarah evoked for him . 
The day he left he was closeted with her for a long time ; she shed no tears when he departed , but Parke cried in his arms , and begged him , with kisses , to come again . 
Osmond promised , with a significant look at Sarah , to be with them in ten years , for by that time there would be questions to ask which he would be old enough to answer . 
He demanded of Cuth and Elsa that they should live till then , and rode away with a careless ease which made Sarah grind her teeth and Jason smile . 
`` And we reap the whirlwind , '' said Sarah , looking at Philippa . 
`` The wind do n't blow , '' cried Parke , looking out of the window . 
Justbefore Osmond 's visit , Jason , at Sarah 's request , drew a plan for the alteration and improvement of the old house ; she approved it , and he made a contract with John Davis to do the work . 
`` Thankful to the Lord for these remnants , '' Elsa exclaimed , who partook of Sarah 's ill-humor without knowing why . 
He resumed chisel and plane with an avidity which attracted Parke , and sent him to his mother to ask if his father were a real carpenter . 
One day , when Parke , tired of the shavings , the blocks , and the racket , had gone to ride with Sarah , Jason broke the silence which had been maintained between Philippa and himself . 
`` Parke . 
The question made him reflect on the influence his non-interference with Parke might have , and how much it might affect his guardianship , and he instantly determined to exercise no authority with her beyond the management of her money ; there should be no difference shown by him in his treatment of the children . 
Jason made over the premises to Sarah , but from some unaccountable whim she refused to buy any thing new . 
What had been right for herself , Sarah said , must be right for Philippa , whether it suited or not . 
She was not to be spoiled on that account , Sarah replied , and money or no money , she must be taught a sense of duty , and the practice of it . 
In short , she was confined to a system as rigid as that of the penitentiary , with one exception -- liberty to associate with Parke , and share his pleasures as he saw fit . 
To give Sarah her due , she was just towards Philippa in all that pertained to her material welfare ; her health was guarded , she was not subjected to fatigue and exposure -- her associations were limited to the orthodox standard , and she was as one of the family . 
And although Sarah watched and tended her in these illnesses , and fretted over them , she never remembered being kissed or smiled upon , or having her hand pressed with an affectionate grasp . 
Sarah hated her . 
The reflection of Parke 's serene , joyous life spread over Philippa 's , and prevented her from being miserable . 
Fact held the place in his nature which depth occupied in Jason 's , and a becoming way of self-gratification contrasted with Sarah 's abnegation of pleasure . 
He decided that for himself the little he had made since his marriage was enough , and that he would not risk again either Parke 's or Philippa 's money . 
Whether he had a troubled , mist-like vision in his mind respecting Sarah , if any question of loss should come up between them ; or whether he had as dim a remembrance of his socialistic principles ; whatever the cause , he carried out his plan with the tenacity of a man who has but one idea at a time , and so tied up the property beyond his control , that , morally speaking , he was able to consider himself as outside of the family . 
The onus of bringing up the children , of sustaining their position , and the claims of society , he left to Sarah , who bore the burden becomingly . 
She was a friend to the poor and the aged , because it was the custom of the family , and she continued the time-honored gifts of salves , cordials , and food for the sick . 
She was a good member of the upper class , for she dressed handsomely , entertained handsomely , and was never inconveniently intimate with it . 
Without a profound comprehension of the spiritual , devoid of pious aspirations , she was a believer in the tenets of the Congregational Church , and had joined it a year before her marriage . 
She was full of the business of religion , and ministers were under her especial patronage . 
With all her prestige , all her influence , she was not loved abroad , nor envied ; her want of softness , her shrill laugh , her cold words , the restless expression in her black eyes and thin lips , and her repellant manner , made people afraid of her . 
The years advanced through Parke and Philippa 's childhood , and brought Sarah and Jason to the borders of middle age with a monotony which concealed the swiftness of their flight , and kept in check that prescience of change and loss which generally hovers over the mind . 
inquired Sarah , looking at her watch . 
Sarah asked maliciously , but Elsa turned the subject . 
`` She would go , you remember , as soon as Parke left for college ; of all the grit I ever saw , she was the grittiest . 
Are Parke 's bills heavy , too ? '' 
Sarah looked at Elsa with a dark face , for it seemed as if she were trying to exasperate her ; but the old woman 's countenance was imperturbable ; her round cheeks , rosy as winter apples , glistened provokingly . 
Sarah could have snapped her fingers against them with pleasure , or scratched the smooth , glassy enamel of her shining eyes , that were made to penetrate , not to be penetrated . 
`` A man 's bills are different , '' Sarah answered calmly , for after all she loved Elsa . 
Would you like some toast , Sarah ? 
Stepping back to observe its effect , she mentally remarked , that it was nine years ago this very month since Philippa came to Crest , and that time had not changed Sarah for the better . 
As she entered the hall , leisurely untying her bonnet , Sarah , who heard her footsteps , dropped her work and rose to meet her with an extended hand . 
said Sarah , with a smile which did not unclose her lips , `` you have grown a head taller . 
When did you hear from Parke ? 
Your father will be thirty-eight next month , wo n't he , Sarah ? '' 
An hour after she was interrupted by Sarah , who came to say that there was company at Mrs. Rogers 's that evening , and to inquire whether she would go for a while . 
Philippa complied , and Sarah gave them a close examination , and accused her of carelessness and extravagance , and begged to know if it was impossible for her to be a credit to the family . 
Sarah threw down the dress she had in her hand , and left the chamber . 
Sarah opened the door , ready also , and Philippa turned a grave look towards her , with an expression which conveyed to him that she knew the source he had derived his question from . 
asked Sarah , contemptuously . 
The monotonous fall of the waves on the rocky beach in the distance sounded in Philippa 's ears like the old march to which she had stepped through life beside Sarah . 
When they reached the row of weeping-willows before Mrs. Rogers 's door , she said : `` Why put ideas in Jason 's head that belong to you , Sarah ? '' 
Sarah made no reply . 
`` Once for all , Cousin Sarah , give me the information I ask for , or I shall compel Jason to give it to me . '' 
`` Have you got a pistol about you , '' sneered Sarah , `` to enforce your demand ? '' 
Philippa gently shook the shawl in her grasp , but Sarah felt as if she was in a vice of steel . 
`` If Parke saw you , your hand would fall paralyzed . 
Sarah gave a loud knock on the door , which brought Mrs. Rogers immediately . 
Parke used to come , especially when Sam was here , and I miss him too . '' 
Sarah looked towards a young man of composed mien , who was twisting his watch-key , and smiled when she met his eye . 
`` I never thought so , '' and Sarah glanced towards her . 
He blushed as he asked her some trivial question about coming home , and Sarah felt annoyed . 
Sarah joined another group , while Mr. Ritchings and Philippa were deciding on the merits of the cake , but she could not help looking in that direction occasionally . 
Jason arrived with umbrellas and overshoes , and staid in the entry till Sarah came out of the parlor . 
He waved her off with a laugh , and beckoned Philippa to hurry , but still he was obliged to wait on the shell-paved walk while Sarah exchanged a few words with Mr. Ritchings . 
Sarah heard the noise and ran up stairs ; Philippa 's countenance changed when she saw her . 
`` For the Lord 's sake , Sarah , get her the beads , if they are in the land of the living . '' 
`` I 'll go for it , '' Sarah replied mildly , and whispered to Elsa that she had no idea where the thing was ; but it was found , and Philippa consented to go back to bed . 
The doctor said that her hair must be shorn , and Jason was called to assist in the operation ; he caught the tresses as they fell , and looked upon them as one might look upon a friend for the last time ; tears dropped from his eyes which he was not aware of , till Sarah told him that if he was going to be overcome by a handful of hair , he would not be of much use in the sick-room . 
If it was all the same to Mrs. Auster , he would like to be buried in the Parke lot . 
Sarah promised him that he should be laid in the desired spot , and he died , silently and firmly , like a wolf . 
The day she came Philippa 's doom was pronounced ; a few hours more would close the scene , the doctor informed Jason and Sarah . 
Jason wrote to Parke to come home , and then disappeared . 
Sarah , exhausted , went to bed , leaving with Philippa Elsa , whose last office seemed to be to moisten her poor lips . 
Kiss Parke , '' said Philippa , in a hoarse voice , and again closed her eyes . 
Sarah rose up in bed , with a clear perception of not being rejoiced at Elsa 's tidings . 
Kiss Parke . '' 
Sarah came in , and Jason involuntarily looked at her for sympathy . 
Elsa wished in her heart that they had Sarah between their teeth , and shaking the devil out of her . 
`` You have done your best , Sarah , that I know , and so has Elsa . 
Parke arrived the next day , with a pair of horses that he had hired in the town where he found he must wait for a train to Crest . 
`` There , '' said Elsa , with a slight sniff , `` if you are going to act so , you must go right away , Parke ; the time for crying has gone by ! '' 
`` I am so glad to see you , Parke , '' said Philippa . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Parke . 
`` Oh , Parke , you must go through . '' 
`` There , there , '' Elsa broke in , `` colleges or no colleges , you must go down stairs , Parke . '' 
`` Now , Parke , do n't pray keep us in hot water about this college business ; go back . 
He replied , that he did not believe in education ; he was not surprised at Parke 's being weary of playing at knowledge ; he imagined that of the two sorts of men -- those who were taught by systems , and those who made them -- Parke would prefer the latter ; and that he would create one himself and bring it to perfection -- the art of amusement . 
In vain she urged Parke to return . 
All outside of college life , Jason observed to Sarah , and better established at Crest than elsewhere . 
Parke was so occupied that he only found time to visit Philippa a few moments each day , but he said so much of his plans that he left food for thought . 
Her life was absorbed in Parke 's . 
Thename of Theresa Bond appeared often in the reminiscences of Philippa 's school life with which she sometimes entertained Parke . 
She arrived at the appointed day , and when Parke saw her he was satisfied with the prospect her coming offered ; so was she . 
He lounged in the distance , or , if he followed Parke , Philippa , and Theresa , from room to room , he appeared to do so from an interest he took in the books , engravings , and knick-knacks , which were strewed everywhere . 
It was a day to discuss character , Parke said , and to make confessions ; the afternoon was before them where to choose . 
It was a wonderful spectacle to Jason , when he beheld the ease and adaptability of Parke 's manner , while seated between the girls on a sofa . 
Occasionally Parke took her hand , carelessly patting it , and dropping it forgetfully , as he appealed to her to ratify his opinions . 
Parke stood beside Theresa , following her music with the delight of an artist . 
Sarah looked in at the door , a linen apron in her hand , and passed on , with a pleasant picture in her mind . 
When Parke began to sing , Jason moved from his place , near Philippa , and asked her , in a low voice , if she understood that outlandish music . 
`` Gems '' were disinterred from the top shelves -- `` Friendship 's Offerings '' and `` Keepsakes , '' the New Year 's gifts of Parke and Philippa 's childish days . 
`` These make me feel a boy again , '' said Parke , `` when life was n't ` full of sunny years . ' '' 
`` New Year 's presents , '' Parke replied . 
Parke echoed . 
Parke repeated , nipping her ear . 
As Philippa continued dumb , Theresa concluded to change the subject , and make Parke forget his question . 
Books , music , fine talk , did not suit him ; they were for Parke , who became them so well . 
Parke snapped his fingers at Theresa , and whistled the Bolero . 
Her glossy black hair , dressed in Spanish fashion , fastened by a high-topped shell-comb , one of Sarah 's treasures -- with a red rose on one side of her head , and a black lace scarf on the other , brought out the warmest tints of her dusky beauty . 
`` She is hideous , '' said Parke . 
Sarah gave a shrill laugh ; not that she comprehended the allusion , but there seemed a fitness in it which gratified her . 
Theresa threw up a window , and from habit , Sarah and Philippa , and even Parke , drew back from the wind and mist which rushed in , but she delighted in the atmosphere , and expressed a desire for a walk . 
The suggestion was exclaimed against , and Sarah observed to him , that he need not suppose , because he passed so much of his life in India rubbers , that anybody besides would fancy doing so . 
Sarah hastened to reply for him : `` He lives in the woods -- going through the ceremony of carrying a gun -- or , on the water , manœuvring with a boat . '' 
`` He has stayed at home one day , though , '' Parke remarked , `` because something new has happened . '' 
`` I am sure we have company enough for him to remain with us , but he never does , '' said Sarah . 
`` None half so delightful as the present , '' said Parke . 
`` Do shut that window , Miss Bond , '' entreated Sarah . 
A moment afterwards Parke stood beside her . 
Apparently no member of it involved another in any pursuit , opinion , or interest , except Parke , who involved Philippa . 
Sarah and Philippa were engaged much of the time in house-work and sewing . 
Philippa did what she had been accustomed to do from a child , and Sarah assisted Elsa everywhere . 
Parke smoked and read the newspapers in the kitchen , and Elsa shelled beans in the parlor . 
When he married Cousin Sarah he was a carpenter . '' 
`` Parke and I , both . 
Your Cousin Sarah comes into the property before Parke , and what is hers is her husband 's . '' 
Parke and I have it all -- or will soon . '' 
Parke is always giving . 
`` Would Parke ? 
Would your relative Sarah ? '' 
Parke planned admirably for Theresa 's amusement . 
asked Sarah , when she heard her say so . 
`` I can not manage a boat , '' said Parke . 
`` Jason will go with you , '' said Sarah , graciously . 
`` Let us have a party , then , '' said Parke . 
Jason remarked that Philippa was afraid of the water , too , and he thought it likely Parke was ; but if he could rely on Miss Bond , sufficient courage could be mustered for a short sail . 
Sarah thought of Mr. Ritchings , and , without consulting any one , sent him an invitation to join the party . 
`` I did , '' Sarah said , in a serene voice . 
`` All hands , ahoy , '' called Sarah , moving down the walk beside Mr. Ritchings , and accompanied by Gilbert , who carried a basket of provisions . 
Perhaps its airy nothingness came the nearest to a habitation in Parke 's room . 
There was a belief in Sarah 's mind , like a fatality , that she was so devoted to Parke she would not marry herself , but that his marriage would be the most important event of her life . 
Sarah was also fixed in a belief that she was not a girl to be sought or loved , or desired to be . 
she asked , pretending not to see Sarah 's tears . 
You need n't contradict , Sarah . 
`` Why has n't Mary put Parke 's room to rights ? '' 
Sarah , still restless , went up garret , towards sunset , to look over the bay . 
`` This is fine , '' Parke remarked ; `` we glide over glass . '' 
He turned very red , and asked Parke where they were going . 
Parke and Theresa crept forward , and sat down on the other side of the sail ; his boot-soles against the ballast stones , and the edge of her skirts , were all that could be seen of them at the other end of the boat . 
`` Shoal water , '' cried Parke from the bow . 
``` Oh pilot , 't is a fearful thing ' to have to scramble up that bank in front of us , '' Parke remarked . 
`` Down with the red flag , Up with the black , '' sang Parke , assisting Theresa out of the boat . 
Theresa pulled the wild shining smilax , and wreathed it round Parke 's hat and her own . 
asked Parke . 
She started up to unpack the basket , and Parke threw himself beside Theresa , who declared she was in raptures with life . 
Parke suggested the fork of a tree , near by , not more than fifty feet from the ground . 
`` I am too , '' said Parke , taking a bit of tart . 
` There , '' said Parke , flinging a cone at Philippa , `` the inhabited world may dine now . '' 
A shade of annoyance passed over Parke 's serene face . 
I read these lines in one of your books , Parke : ``` To her fair works did Nature link The human soul that through me ran . ' 
`` The old gent is breaking out with a vengeance , '' murmured Parke , in Theresa 's ear . 
Parke moved in a roundabout way from tree to tree , for Theresa was not inclined to leave . 
`` Shall I ever again have so beautiful an hour as this , Parke ? 
Parke 's enthusiasm lasted through both phases , as did also Philippa 's patience . 
I must make a set , and want to borrow a pattern of the collar Parke had on . 
Parke and she are a handsome couple . 
Though it is none of my business , for all our families have been connected , as it were , for many years , my second husband being one of the Squire 's best captains , I have thought it would be worth your while , and Parke 's , to keep the property together . 
Sarah would die in peace then . '' 
`` Theresa , you have quite educated Parke . '' 
`` Theresa , I am going to speak to you about Parke . '' 
No assimilation with Parke 's tendencies , no dovetailing with his habits , no devotion , ever so absolute , will avail a moment when the inclination seizes him for something different . 
Jason was chosen as delegate from Crest , and Sarah proposed , as it was moonlight , that they should all go to the meeting . 
asked Parke . 
`` Philippa will go in the carriage with us , Sarah , then , '' said Jason . 
Theresa called Parke 's attention to the effect of the resettes in her hair . 
`` Do n't be a goose , Parke , '' said his mother . 
`` Philippa does not happen to be in her own country , '' Sarah replied , with a laugh . 
For once Parke caught and understood an expression of pain in Philippa 's face . 
You are as much of a Parke as I am . 
`` That was my business , '' said Parke . 
`` You are a deuced coquette , Theresa , '' said Parke , when he adjusted her foot in the stirrup . 
But Parke was silent and absorbed ; he pushed along at a rapid pace , keeping near the carriage which preceded him . 
At a bend in the road Theresa stopped her horse , while the carriage , and Parke with it , wound out of sight . 
Parke turned back as soon as he missed her . 
A polite usher , however , found a front seat for Sarah . 
Theresa and Philippa went to a pew under the gallery , near one end of the platform , and Parke stood among the men by the doors . 
They had scarcely touched the ground before Parke and his mother were there . 
Jason took her up in his arms and pushed out of the crowd , telling Parke to be quick with some water . 
she asked Sarah . 
`` She will come to presently , '' Sarah answered , taking from Parke the cup of water he had found and dashing it in her face . 
`` What did you say , Sarah ? 
`` There is more dust than wounds , '' Parke replied ; `` two or three are hurt , however . 
`` All right , Mr. Ritchings , '' Parke bawled . 
`` Sit on the front seat , Philippa , '' said Sarah , when Jason came up . 
Philippa could not shake from her mind the picture of Theresa 's crying on Parke 's shoulder ; she was very weary , however , and when the horses subsided into a monotonous trot , her head drooped as if she was falling asleep also . 
In truth , Philippa 's feelings in regard to Parke were so plain to herself , that she believed Jason -- her fellowalien , the only unobtrusive , kindly being she had ever known -- sympathized with her , and understood them . 
He pictured Sarah winding her watch , putting her numerous ornaments in their boxes , and pinning her curls . 
`` She flew to Parke , and cried , with her head on his shoulder '' -- Jason shivered -- `` as if it was theplace for her . '' 
`` Why did we marry , Sarah ? 
He saw that Sarah hated Philippa . 
He was dismayed at the danger he had been ready to thrust her into , for it would be impossible for Sarah to make fine distinctions ; so if there was any thing now existing in him which was damaging to his conjugal honor , he could not make expiation by its revelation to Sarah . 
`` She must needs faint , '' added Sarah , passing her hand over her face , as if to smooth out the evil expression there . 
`` Sarah , '' and Jason stood up resolutely , `` have I ever loved you ? '' 
Separation was the test she thought best to apply to the relation between herself and Parke . 
When Theresa 's bonnet was tied , and she was on the point of leaving the house , Sarah said : `` You are coming again ? '' 
`` Of course she is , '' Parke interposed . 
Sarah tossed the row of curls along her forehead as if they had been little bells , but her face kept a neutral expression ; but the invitation was cordially given . 
Her looks and ways were so vividly remembered , that Philippa felt able to assume her identity ; but these recollections did not cause any change in a resolve to act without reference to her relation with Parke . 
When Parke returned from the station , he carried out a purpose , long postponed , of breaking a filly in harness . 
Somecaprice determining Sarah to refurnish the house , she asked Parke to accompany her on a journey . 
Others heard of the arrival of the Langs with the same indifference that they heard of the arrival of a circus , or a lecturer on the lost arts or poetry ; among these was Sarah , who , when Elsa told her the news , on the night of her return , was too much engrossed in her new purchases to pay much attention to it . 
`` Mother , '' asked Parke , `` did n't you buy something for Elsa ? '' 
she exclaimed , putting up her hand to a rusty false band of hair that would n't stay on her forehead , `` did you think of me , Sarah ? '' 
said Parke , comically . 
`` Now , Parke , you need not twit me ; but I must say that youngest daughter of Mrs. Lang , who came here to see Mr. Auster about the house they have hired of him , is the most lovely creature I ever laid my eyes on . 
Parke asked , with an air of interest `` She is to be pitied , then . '' 
And Philippa brought out a box for Parke to inspect . 
`` Jason , I believe you have a longing to follow your old trade , '' said Sarah . 
`` The kings somewhere , '' said Parke , `` learn trades , so that if their kingdoms upset , or they are compelled to abdicate , they can earn their living . 
`` This is the first time , Parke , '' Elsa observed , `` that I have had a specimen of your college learning . 
`` She will have the chance any time to enjoy my choice , '' Sarah answered . 
Nobody had ever succeeded in standing against Sarah , except Osmond Luce . 
Jason , Philippa , and Parke were under her sway . 
If a struggle should ever come between her and Parke , he would either give up and die , or she would harry him to death . 
Parke made himself quite irritable during the renovation ; that is , he contradicted her once or twice , and looked annoyed because Philippa showed so much indifference about any change in her own room . 
`` Parke , you do not understand yourself . '' 
The horses were at the gate in a few minutes , and Parke turned them in the direction of one of the necks of the bay . 
There could not come a time , she believed , when her life with Parke would cease . 
The house , in short , was more changed in Sarah 's hands than it had been in Jason 's . 
Before he had finished nailing it , Sarah put her head in at the door , and looked round with a critical eye . 
`` Speaking of your grandfather , Sarah , '' broke in Jason , `` when do you expect to be done with your furnishing ? '' 
When they met at supper , Sarah beamed behind a heaped-up dish of apple-fritters , for which Jason expressed becoming gratitude . 
Parke asked . 
`` Let 's have a party for benighted natives , and show them our furniture , '' suggested Parke . 
`` Do n't be foolish , '' said Sarah ; `` but we must have company on Mr. Ritchings 's account , and Sam Rogers 's . '' 
`` Anyhow , '' cried Parke , `` we 'll give Sam Rogers an entertainment . '' 
Philippa laughed at the idea of Sam 's enjoying company , but Parke was in earnest . 
Sam never took any trouble to please Parke , but he was not insensible to his attachment . 
Parke took a survey of him , and admired his manliness . 
She could not help contrasting him with Parke , and taking him for just what he was worth , as she in her thoughts expressed ; how much higher in the scale Parke stood ! 
Parke 's serene , marble-like brow , the faint bloom coming and going in his cheeks , his large , sensitive eyes , his firm , beautifully-cut mouth , the indescribable , unconscious grace of his attitudes , the movement of his head , and his air of repose and self-possession , proved him worthy of Philippa 's ideal . 
`` Ha , old fellow , '' said Parke , `` you have come to wearing something like what I wear . 
`` Say , Philippa '' -LRB- Parke had turned away -RRB- , `` is Mrs. Auster as soft on Parke as she used to be ? 
`` He is a fine fellow , and ought to go whaling , '' he answered , with an expression which denoted that he should say no more to her about Parke . 
All that could be done for her , in case Parke should break her heart , would amount to very little , for she would accept no consolation . 
Looking up , he saw Parke contemplating him . 
`` Avast , '' said Parke , when he met his eye . 
Parke led the way into his room , and was obliged to look in several places before he could find Theresa 's picture , which fact Sam noted . 
He tossed the picture on a pile of books , and stared at Parke . 
Parke returned the stare , and answered : `` It all depends on your decision , my brave tar , of course . 
They reappeared in the parlor , arm in arm , and Sarah remarked complacently to Mrs. Rogers , that it was pleasant to see Sam 's delight in the society of Parke . 
`` I do n't know , '' Mrs. Rogers replied , `` which he makes the most of , Philippa or Parke ; but I reckon he 'd do any thing to please Philippa . '' 
Sarah sneered ; but the sneer was lost on the good-natured Mrs. Rogers . 
Sarah bit her lips , and looked round at him angrily . 
Thehouse in the order she destined it to be , Parke settled at home , looking forward to no change -- what remained for Sarah but repose ? 
Philippa was , so Sarah said , peculiarly unfitted for the place a minister 's wife should occupy . 
A real tear shone in Sarah 's eyes , which he credited , for he knew that she had most carefully watched over Philippa , of whose regard and devotion to Parke he tried to speak . 
To watch him , and distrust his strength , to lay up a store of irritation against Philippa 's insouciant behavior towards him , became the task which prevented any folding of the hands , and drove Sarah at the old speed . 
If he met Jason in the street , he turned and walked with him ; if he saw Parke riding , he beckoned to be taken up and conveyed to some place he had no previous intention of going to . 
He appeared to have discovered that Elsa was an `` original , '' and made frequent raids into her territory ; but he never talked of Philippa -- not even to Sarah did he again mention her . 
`` Why , Sarah cut it up the other day ; I guess it was moth-eaten . '' 
She had been taunted by Sarah that day ; to escape her , and her own feelings , she had gone into the distant fields , and skirted the borders of the woods , till she was utterly fatigued . 
`` Do you mean any thing concerning Parke ? '' 
At last he said , `` Can Parke make you happy ? '' 
One of the parlor doors opened , and Sarah entered with her hands full of some sort of sewing-work . 
`` Philippa has talked a great deal to-day , '' Sarah said . 
`` Nonsense , Sarah , '' said Jason ; `` why should she approve of her ? 
because she flirted with Parke ? '' 
Sarah looked very angrily at Jason ; his manner was unusual . 
`` If you mean a match between Theresa and Parke , yes , -- I oppose it . '' 
She rose from the sofa , with glittering eyes fixed upon a distant something , and clasped her hands together with an inspired gesture , which reminded Sarah of the episode of the rosary . 
Light flashed in upon Sarah 's mind also . 
`` Had Philippa been idiot enough to expect to gain Parke ? '' 
It was not possible , as far as Parke was concerned , and yet -- there was the property , which might be all his again . 
Sarah , I want you in the buttery . '' 
Mr. Ritchings , the unconscious agent of this development , came that very evening to the panelled parlor , where Philippa sat stitching the pillow-cases , and Sarah knitting . 
Sarah sympathized with him , and Philippa coldly combated . 
Parke had gone to pay a visit somewhere ; Jason and Elsa were absent , but Sarah maintained the field , which he wished was clear . 
Sarah looked up at him with a restraining eye . 
Sarah laid down her knitting , crossed the room several times , and then stopped before a portrait of the Squire , painted at the age of forty . 
Sarah had resumed her knitting . 
He soon bade Sarah good-night , but instead of going home , walked beyond the town , till he heard the baying of Jason 's dogs in the woods . 
He called him `` the whaler , '' and `` your awkward friend , '' and `` the nautical man , '' and asked Sarah what the attraction was about Sam , and why Parke and Philippa were never bored with his society . 
Sarah replied with some asperity , that his courage , honesty , and perseverance had won him everybody 's respect , and that he was a protégéof her grandfather 's . 
He also professed to have more ear for music than formerly , and often engaged Parke at the piano . 
The winter must be passed pleasantly ; therefore when Parke suggested that there should be a series of cotillon parties , he cheerfully consented to be manager with him , although he was only in the jig line himself . 
The visit to Theresa Bond was put off till the latter part of winter , and Philippa , since Parke 's heart was in the cotillons , made up some evening dresses , and practised waltzing with him in the parlors . 
Sarah made no opposition to the scheme , because it was Parke 's , and said nothing in its favor , because she was a member of the church , which disapproved of frivolities . 
Parke was dancing with Philippa when they entered ; as soon as it was over , Sam Rogers went to him to inquire how they got in . 
Parke gave him a rigid stare . 
She asked Parke what he thought of her . 
When he next came across Parke , he said , in a voice whose accent of ire and derision it would be impossible to describe , `` I wish the yellow cook of the Unicorn was here ; I 'd introduce him to those wenches . '' 
Parke answered , flipping his glove ; `` how good of you ! '' 
Parke is as headstrong as the devil ; look at him . '' 
`` Then you are Parke 's friend , if you are mine . '' 
`` Bother Parke ! '' 
When Sarah heard that the Langs were at the party she gave her shrillest laugh , and begged Jason to learn to dance . 
She never dreamed that Parke was the means of their being invited . 
Had she known , even , that Parke had been good-natured enough to invite them , she would have felt no concern beyond ridicule ; the spirit of society was too strong even for his wilfulness to go beyond a certain point . 
The next evening Parke took a walk in the direction of Mrs. Lang 's house . 
His splendid dog `` Bruno '' went with him , and when they came opposite her windows , Parke said to him , `` Speak , Bruno ! '' 
Man and dog passed slowly along and repassed , Bruno slouching with his black head close to the ground , and Parke firmly , with his fair face upturned to the window . 
At the next Parke zealously danced with the prettiest girls in the room till ten o'clock , when he disappeared , and returned in the space of an hour , remarking , to those standing near the entrance , that he had been taking the air and a cigar . 
`` Good-evening to you , '' said Parke . 
And she retreated , placing the lamp on the window-shelf of the sitting-room , so that its rays fell across Parke on the steps , glanced down the path , revealing the black stalks of the hollyhocks , and the dark shape of the horse tied to the paling . 
`` I called , '' said Parke , in a polite voice , `` to inquire whether there was any mistake in your card of invitation to-night . '' 
He saw Parke in his light curricle , and Charlotte Lang beside him . 
He noticed that the whip was in its rest , and that only one of Parke 's hands was employed in driving ; the reins hung loosely , and the horses went to one side of the hill and then to the other , as they chose . 
She is proud of her connection with them ; you know she was second cousin to Mrs. Maria Parke , the Squire 's second wife . '' 
Elsa made frequent inroads into the parlor , where they were , and Sarah frequent exits from it . 
Sarah , fatigued , rested silently in her chair by the fire . 
Parke came in , and with a nod to Sam , and `` How are you , shipmate ? '' 
Sam gave the board a shake , which toppled the chess-men over , with noise enough to rouse Parke from his musical dream . 
But Parke 's lids drooped over his eyes . 
`` Of course , '' said Sarah . 
`` Of course , '' Parke echoed , dreamily . 
Sam passed quickly into the room where Jason was , instead of leaving the house by the front door , and spoke to him , listening for some movement from Parke . 
Rogers delayed tea on Friday evening on Parke 's account , he did not arrive till the feast was in débris , and the company withdrawn from the tea-table to the parlor . 
`` How pale you are , Parke ! '' 
`` Come in , old fellow , '' said Parke ; `` I 'll smoke with you . '' 
Sam filled his pipe from a box on the mantel-shelf , and was soon absorbed ; and Parke , taking a cigar from his case , lighted it , and fell to talking on the subject of Sam 's next voyage . 
So pertinent were his questions and remarks relating to it , that Sam was drawn out completely , and gave descriptions of sea-life , to which Parke added information so entertaining that Philippa was oblivious of the parlor , till recalled by an ill-humored reproof from Sarah . 
That evening Charlotte Lang found the house deserted on her return from her ride with Parke ; her mother and sister had gone to the evening meeting of the Baptist society which Mrs. Lang had joined , and which was in the progress of a revival . 
Her thoughts were intent upon Parke alone . 
Even Sam Rogers nodded in the vicinity of its wheels , and Parke trifled with its cogs and springs , playing a desperate game , to test it . 
The cotillon parties ended in February , but a grand ball was projected by Parke , which included Sam in his managerial capacity . 
`` After the ball , Philippa , '' said Parke , `` we will visit Theresa . '' 
`` You need n't come here with your braces ; however , I 'll ask Sarah . '' 
`` There 's a bottle in the buttery ; now , I recollect Sarah opened it yesterday , to give old Mr. Weaver a gill . 
the step was taken which confirmed the truth of the connection between Parke and Charlotte . 
If the blow had fallen -- as the feeling and the tongue of the public would , in the first flush of detection , have had it fall -- on the family , it would have crushed Sarah and Philippa , but tongue and feeling were soon exhausted , and the family were still in ignorance . 
The Hesperdemanded his time , was the excuse he gave for making his visits so short , and for avoiding Parke . 
asked Parke . 
The tone of his voice was so significant , that Parke went round to the back of Philippa 's chair and mutely interrogated him . 
Parke quietly took a chair near him , and waited till the game was finished , and he had risen to go . 
When the outside door was reached , Parke laid his hand on the latch , stood before him , and said , `` You have heard something . '' 
`` Now by God , Parke , you shall not do it ! 
Parke was crying now like a baby in Sam 's arms . 
He wiped his own eyes , moved from one foot to the other , swore at the world , and every thing in it , and finally led Parke into his room , and sat up the whole night with him . 
`` And Parke -- they say there 's something wrong between them . '' 
I did n't see my way clear at first ; I thought of going to Sarah . 
She 'll die , or she 'll carry it off with the high Parke hand . 
Did n't my old man know what that was -- steel springs covered with satin ; though I must say Sarah ai n't so smooth . 
Parke 's death she could communicate , but to be the bearer of such tidings put her to her trumps . 
It was when Sarah came into the kitchen to show her the new-fashioned plaits in the bosom of some shirts she was making for Parke . 
`` Very handsome , indeed , Sarah , '' she said , aloud , `` but a great deal of trouble . '' 
Elsa wet her lips , caught her breath , and -- allowed Sarah to go out without speaking a word . 
`` That villain , Parke , '' she exclaimed , `` he ought to be sent to State 's prison -- sentenced to hard labor for his lifetime . 
There was a certain hard , cool air about him , which convinced her that he would go and knock Parke down , as soon as he had heard her story . 
At dinner she lingered with Sarah over a cup of tea , when the rest had left the table and gone . 
The clatter of dishes which Elsa rather resentfully made , drove Sarah from the table , and Elsa remarked to herself that perhaps their sorrows had only just begun . 
Something certainly ailed Sarah , and none of them had perceived it . 
`` And , '' continued Elsa , `` youhave got to tell Jason and Sarah . '' 
`` I never will speak of it to one human being -- unless it be to Parke , or , '' she added , with a frightful hauteur , `` to that slave . '' 
`` Yes , '' cried Elsa , `` she is Parke 's slave , and you know it . 
But whose slave will be Parke 's child , with your blood in its veins ? '' 
An acute vision of Parke 's abandonment to a wild , isolated happiness , such as she knew hecould enjoy , passed before her mind , and for an instant she felt his utter separation from her . 
Philippa had not thought of Sarah . 
She determined to show no emotion before Jason and Sarah , let come what would . 
She was somewhat shaken when she went down stairs and met Parke in the hall , and exclaimed involuntarily , `` I know it all -- you -- '' His hand was on her mouth . 
`` Elsa wants to be coaxed to live , '' said Sarah . 
Sarah took his hands in hers , and looked at him sadly . 
`` You sent no message to Parke , '' she said , quietly , when he reached her . 
`` May I tell Parke , I ask , that you sent him your love ? '' 
The maddening vision of a happiness which she had had no part in , and could have no part in with Parke , again rose before Philippa 's mind . 
A sound of wheels made them look round , a chaise was coming down the road , with Sarah in it , who was returning from some business concerning the Dorcas Society : the floor of the chaise was covered with bundles of work , and Gilbert was driving it . 
His quick eye caught sight of the girls , and he tried to pass before Sarah could discover them . 
Charlotte exchanged glances with Philippa when she recognized Sarah , and an expression of painful dismay passed over her face . 
One more effectual word Philippa longed to say , which , through Charlotte , might pierce Parke like an arrow and cut like a sword ; but it was an emergency she had no weapons for . 
Parke came home that day with the dash and flavor of travel about him . 
`` By the way , '' exclaimed Sarah , `` what were you saying to Charlotte Lang this morning ? '' 
Philippa made no answer , but fixed her eyes upon Parke , who suddenly felt in his pocket for his handkerchief . 
`` The time has come -- I saw it in Philippa 's eyes , and now Master Parke is going to walk on the edge of the burning ploughshare . '' 
Sarah , astonished at Philippa 's not replying to her , looked up , and , following the direction of her gaze , saw that in Parke 's face and manner which startled and perplexed her ; but Jason , looking from one to the other , divined some evil he would rather not know of ; he rose , and opened the door to find Elsa pacing to and fro before it like a sentinel . 
Philippa 's eyes were still fixed on Parke with a growing light , which , to him , seemed to spread over all the room ; but he bore her gaze like a man , and it clinched the purpose he had brooded over . 
asked Sarah , her nostrils white and rigid . 
snapped Sarah . 
Parke put a cigar in his mouth without lighting it , and twisted it apart , and , after a moment , said : `` I do not pretend to give an account of myself . 
Sarah literally obeyed him ; her composure was so strange that Parke lost his presence of mind . 
`` Sarah , '' said Jason , in a voice of thunder , `` let my daughter alone . '' 
`` Eh , '' she uttered , with a smile at Parke , as if there had just been effected a tacit bargain , which divided him and Philippa with Jason and herself -- Parke was hers ! 
Parke raised his tear-stained face , and again Sarah addressed Philippa . 
Keep your eye on Sarah ; she has had an awful blow . '' 
A COOLnote from Parke announced to Mr. Ritchings his wedding-day , and engaged him to perform the ceremony in his study , on a certain evening . 
For a moment she was mindful of the generosity which prompted Mr. Ritchings to come to her when under the cloud of disgrace ; but she forgot it , to count the days to Parke 's wedding , for Mr. Ritchings had told her of the appointment . 
What would her father , Osmond Luce , have said had he been present in the family conclave when Parke declared his resolve ! 
Perhaps had her father been there he might have influenced him ; she recalled the incident of their mutual fondness when she first came to Crest , of Parke 's clinging to him and begging him to return -- while she sat aloof , silent , and neglected . 
That they were something alike , she reflected for the first time ; she had never dreamed of thwarting or disputing her father 's will ; -- how should she have been so infatuated as to imagine she could bend and subdue Parke ? 
After the day was appointed for the marriage , Jason and Parke were closeted for several days . 
During that time Parke made his will , but asked Jason not to read it , who was so troubled at the fact that he informed Philippa , not daring to tell Sarah . 
`` But you will accompany Parke . 
How strangely he was speaking of theirfollowing Parke ! 
An hour afterwards , he found Sarah in her room , holding her head in her hands . 
In his absence Sarah had put her hands over her eyes . 
Elsa shook her finger at him as she said , `` Sarah , you feel poorly to-day . '' 
`` Now , Jason , '' she said in a lively voice , `` you need n't worry because I say so -- but Sarah is coming down with a fit of sickness . '' 
Chaos and night would come , should Sarah go . 
Hurrying back to Sarah , as he mechanically obeyed her suggestion , she felt her head , hands , and feet , without discomposing her . 
`` Sarah , you ought to go to bed ; Jason is worried . '' 
Jason threw his arms round her : `` Sarah , Sarah , what is it ? '' 
Parke asked , pale with dread . 
Parke crowded the pillows together , and Jason inclined her gently upon them ; she let her head fall back , still keeping her eyes fixed , with an expression of terror , upon Philippa , who now came forward and endeavored to smooth the covers . 
`` I 'll go , '' said Parke . 
But the paroxysm subsided ; Sarah wiped the sweat from her forehead and closed her eyes , and all stole from the chamber except Jason . 
Philippa went into one of the dark parlors , for she wanted to be alone , and lament over her cold dislike for Sarah which nothing could overcome . 
Sarah 's perpetual coldness , irritation , and anger proved that one at least understood her unhappy idiocrasy . 
She exonerated Sarah from that moment , and made no merit of the perception which led her to consider how impossible it was for her to be considered any thing except an intruder and an encumbrance ; but her heart was not softened an atom . 
`` Philippa , '' called Parke , `` are you here ? 
As the moonbeam entered the room , but did not encompass it , so did Parke 's presence enter the gloom which oppressed her , but did not envelop it . 
He still held her hand , though she was going over the floor , nor would he release her till they reached the door of Sarah 's chamber ; then he asked her to go in and inquire how his mother was . 
`` Is Parke out there ? '' 
Sarah asked . 
Thenervous fever changed to a fatal disease which consumed Sarah slowly . 
Parke confined himself to the house absolutely ; flitted in and out of her chamber twenty times a day , smoked perpetually , changed from chair to chair , sofa to sofa , in all the rooms , where he carried piles of books , which he vainly tried to read . 
He wrote to Charlotte , in the beginning of Sarah 's illness , that she must not expect to see him while his mother 's life hung by a thread , but that she would get well . 
Jason watched by Sarah 's bedside night and day ; he attended to no calls whatever . 
But , as only the ordinary details necessary were dispatched , she was tormented by a waiting leisure which preceded a dreaded crisis ; day after day she had nothing to do but recall her experiences in sickness and compare them with the present , or recount to Mary , and the neighbors who came to inquire for Sarah , the cases which had ended in death . 
Many times a day she put in order the cups and vials on the table and mantel in Sarah 's chamber , but rarely exchanged any words with her . 
Sometimes she sat near her while Jason was at his meals ; then Sarah 's eyes followed her movements with an expression which was interpreted in the old way . 
Once when their eyes met Sarah asked her if Parke was married . 
She shook her head for a reply , not trusting herself to speak , and hoped that Sarah would say more -- they could at least unite on that subject -- but she turned her face to the wall . 
For the most part , Sarah was silent towards Jason . 
Not a word passed between them concerning Parke or Philippa ; he accepted what her will had enforced now , as always . 
It seemed so with Sarah . 
`` Call Parke and Philippa . '' 
Parke saw her hands flutter , and darted forward with a cry of `` Mother ! '' 
`` It is all over , '' Elsa announced , in a composed voice , laying Sarah 's hands straight beside her , and closing her eyes . 
cried Parke , `` this is too horrible . 
`` Take care of Parke , Jason , '' said Elsa , and he was obliged to lead him away , reeling . 
The sun 's rays fell from the wide , blue summer sky , and travelled with the funeral procession that still afternoon when Sarah was buried , and rested on the mound of sand heaped beside the grave -- on the black pall -- on the mourners -- with a glory that mocked the shadows of the Valley of Death . 
She set down the chair she was carrying , and went towards him . 
Sauntering down the gravel-walk , as if it were a pleasant thing to do at that moment , he repeated over and over again , `` That girl , Sarah , '' then came back and sat upon the lowest step . 
Will Sarah 's ghost object to my staying here ? 
Some one discovered his likeness to Parke , still strong , though Osmond Luce -LRB- for it was he -RRB- had changed in the last nine years . 
`` She sends word to Parke that he must come up there right away . 
A number of carriages halted at the gate ; the first contained Jason , Parke , and Philippa . 
Sarah is dead , though ; you could not come before , I suppose . '' 
And he half turned as if to recommend him to the notice of Parke and Philippa , who were behind him , and , pushing by him , he went up the steps . 
Philippa knew her father , and put out her hand silently ; he took it , and , extending the other to Parke , said : `` My poor fellow , my mother was buried on such an afternoon as this ; the sunset seems the same . 
Tears moistened his eyes as they dwelt on Parke , whose tearless gaze roved the sky , showing that he had heard the sense of Osmond 's words , but he did not speak . 
`` Parke , you had better go after Jason . '' 
`` I am glad of it , Osmond , '' said Parke , who had paid no attention to her request . 
`` When I ask her , she does , '' Parke said . 
`` Did you and Sarah love each other , Philippa ? '' 
By the way , '' turning to Parke , `` a little girl was here not long ago , with a message for you . 
Parke took his hat , hesitated -- `` Osmond , '' he called . 
Before he could reply , Philippa made so negative and imperious a gesture , that Parke abruptly left the room . 
`` Sarah wasat the helm always , you know . '' 
`` Nonsense ; because Parke has been foolish , or because Jason is a widower ? '' 
As for Parke 's being foolish , he has only been as much as a man can be -- that is , not much , you know . 
`` In view of all the facts , I think that Parke had better leave Crest . '' 
A yellow light crept round the walls , over the figures of Mrs. Lang and Clarice , who sat motionless and heavy , like the mutilated statues in the sand of Thebes -- over the defaced , haggard glory in Parke 's face ; over the dumb , marble Charlotte . 
`` Hush , '' said Parke , `` one of you is dead at any rate . '' 
Parke sent a note to Philippa with the particulars , informing her that he should not be at home at present . 
People were made sensible , such was the force of his presence , that he was Parke 's protector . 
Somehow Elsa obtained all the particulars concerning Parke , and knew the exact moment when he issued from Mrs. Lang 's door to follow the coffin in company with her and a few of the immediate neighbors . 
A group of young men , Parke 's acquaintances , were waiting for his arrival with mixed feelings -- of admiration at his pluck , and gratification at the strait he was brought to . 
With all his imperfections on his head , Parke never looked so much a man as then ; he walked up the gravelpath with Mrs. Lang on his arm , passed his mother 's grave , whose mound rose brown and bare among the grassy hillocks which surrounded it , and stood before the heap of sand which was to cover Charlotte . 
Though Clarice staggered in her convulsive weeping , she was conscious of a sentiment of gratitude towards Parke for giving Charlotte the place among the dead of his race that he would have given her had she been his wife . 
Parke laid his hand lightly on his shoulder , turned from him , and sat down by her . 
Parke instantly rose and faced his father , thus paying his first tribute of respect to him . 
Jason turned his head to the window , to the doors , towards Parke , and nodded with a nod which contained the old permission of full liberty . 
said Parke ; `` or will you have a sermon preached ? '' 
`` I thought so , '' said Parke . 
For a few weeks Elsa transacted domestic affairs as if under the supervision of Sarah . 
Jason resumed his old out-of-doors life , and Parke went hither and thither , driving with Osmond , playing the piano , and skimming books . 
Parke 's music became to him a new thing ; he played the changes of his soul -- the accents of his experience sounded through all his compositions ; but to her it seemed only an increased attention he was giving the piano from ennui.It was the time when they were most together . 
`` I suppose you think I ought to die in harness ; but if there is not a Parke worth living for even , what is the beauty of staying here to die ? '' 
And when he begins his rounds again , Parke will begin his also . '' 
-- and it has seized Parke . '' 
To use her own expression , Jason , Parke , and Philippa were at loose ends , and there was no telling what changes might take place ; she would not remain , to embarrass them , nor herself . 
The day she left , accompanied by Parke and Philippa , was one late in September ; the autumnal winds had not yet devastated the woods , but the leaves fluttered down , seeking their place of repose in the gay shroud which the summer bequeathed . 
Parke loved the sadness and sweetness of the day ; but Philippa , unforgiving towards Elsa for leaving her , was petulant , nervous , and behaved more oddly than usual . 
`` She is never coming to tea , '' cried Parke ; `` we are going to break with you entirely . '' 
Parke asked . 
A glimmering of Osmond 's disposition dawned in Parke 's mind ; he mused . 
Parke stopped -- looked into the recesses of his hat . 
`` Philippa is cut out for an old maid , '' continued Parke . 
It was a pleasant thought , Parke said , as he went to look for Jason . 
I 'll tell you , though , what I shall do with your money , which belongs here -- return it to Parke . 
He was bitterly tempted for a moment to tell her that Parke was going with him , and let her feel how narrow had been the chance between her and the happiness she was trying to buy , but he forbore . 
`` What will Parke do when you go ? '' 
`` Hang Parke , or drown him -- a puppy 's proper fate . 
Was there any thing lovely in Sarah or Jason ? 
Parke was lovely , and I turned to him . 
Parke , Dante , and Shakspeare must be great , because they have made us believe so . '' 
Parke found Jason at the dock , preparing to tar the seams of his boat , which had been hauled on a raft ; he seated himself on the cap-log , near the tar-pot . 
Parke collected the sticks within his reach and poked them into the fire , feeling unaccountably nervous ; his heart fluttered and his hands felt weak . 
Jason calmly laid down the tar-swab , and motioning Parke towards a box , took a seat beside him ; he felt what was coming , but looked phlegmatic . 
Parke 's eyes roved over the bay , whose waters were almost level with his sight , with a consciousness that he had been in the same scene before , and about to say the same thing . 
`` I can guess what you have to say , Parke . '' 
`` She is willing , of course , '' cried Parke , with heat . 
and Parke took her chin in his hand , compelling her to meet his eye , `` between man and woman now , do you not think that I had better go from Crest ? '' 
`` If you do , I must remember it , '' and she burst into a wild fit of crying , which drove Parke to his wits ' end . 
I told Parke his going away would not kill you . '' 
Parke , lighting a cigar , went out by the same door that he had just entered . 
Her eyes fell on Parke , and she stopped in the middle of a line to reply to his `` Good-evening . '' 
The loud tick of the clock , the wind shaking the windows , and the suppressed yawns of Mrs. Lang only disturbed the silence , for Clarice was as still as Parke . 
Parke rose and threw his coat over his arm . 
`` As I would take Charlotte always under my wings , so , Parke , I will take your part , '' Mrs. Lang added . 
asked Parke of Philippa , as she came in . 
`` Last words do n't amount to much , '' Parke observed . 
At the last moment , Parke sought Philippa , and was alone with her till Osmond sent him away . 
Mary made various comments on the subject of Parke 's leaving home , which he answered promptly , and so completely that it was not renewed . 
If , at this moment , she was with Parke , she knew there would be a sediment in her satisfaction , because her plans would still be thwarted . 
Parke has turned the key on his memories , and I 'll lock up Philippa 's . '' 
Before tea-time he was at home , and , contrary to his custom , went at once to the parlor , where he found Mrs. Rogers , as cheerful , talkative , and friendly as if she had seen him but the day before , when , in fact , they had not met since the day of Sarah 's funeral , more than eight months ago . 
I never should have opened my mouth if Parke had n't left you ; now you know he has , you need n't fire up -- I know what 's what . 
`` The first time was long before you were born , when Sarah Parke was growing up . 
I often find her dusting and setting things to rights at odd times , but she do n't seem to care for the rest of the house any longer ; she has n't said a word for or against a thing that has happened since Parke went away . '' 
The memory of Sarah 's loveless ways , of Parke 's indifferent neglect , was too clear for her not to follow his suggestion . 
`` Parke ! 
Parke ! 
Parke ! '' 
Was she prepared to own that the beautiful Parke had n't proved a joy forever ? 
The land on one side of the new street belonged to Parke , and that on the other side was hers . 
`` You are acting , '' she said , angrily , `` as if Parke were dead ; and I wo n't sell . '' 
She saw the advantage at once of breaking up the ground into building lots ; it would increase the value of the whole tract , especially on that side nearest the town , which belonged to Parke . 
It is certain to my mind , that Sarah had no more comprehension what kind of man she had for a husband , than I have had ; live and learn , though . 
Poor Sarah ! 
I wonder I did n't see him better -- he is a remarkable man ; but his fire was put out by the Parke sun -- that 's the truth . 
In that period the anniversary of Sarah 's death occurred . 
Elsa celebrated it by an old-fashioned bake in the oven , such as she and Sarah were wont to enjoy in cherry-time ; and matter-of-fact as her day 's work appeared , Sarah was recalled every moment -- her looks , her ways , her speech -- with an affectionate fidelity which would have surprised her could she have been cognizant of what she had no proof of in her lifetime . 
As she descended the path she remembered a poem which she heard Parke read to Theresa once , and was tormented by it , as one is pursued and tormented by the fragment of some old melody which half repeats itself in the brain . 
She sought among its changes a resemblance to Parke ; it was a satisfaction to find nothing that reminded her of his winning , delicious beauty in the haggard , bearded man before her -- of whom she was beginning to feel a wholesome dread . 
Your business affairs are so ticketed , that you can manage them , and Parke 's also . 
Ungenerous girl , think a moment of the nonentity , me -- who , for twenty years , have managed the Parke property -- which , like a beast , has welked and waved its horns before all the family , including yourself -- and held you in thrall . '' 
One had some dried leaves in it ; she shook them out on the carpet , thinking they were green when Parke was there ; he might have gathered them , for he had a way of bringing flowers into the house , and placing them in vases , books , on the floor , on the piano . 
WhenPhilippa 's prospect was limited to the Scotch firs in the yard , and the curtains of Indian chintz before the parlor windows , Parke 's extended over the savannas of Apure , where the grasses , verdant through the year , were more beautiful than the flower-beds of the terrace at Crest . 
The earthly paradise , peopled with birds of the most brilliant colors , and almost every variety of animal , was at present invaded by a party on a cattle-hunt , which party , including Parke and Osmond Luce , was composed of military men , Llaneros , and negroes . 
Parke , dressed in a check flannel shirt , breeches buttoned tightly at the knee , and with a checkered handkerchief bound round his head , was as much at ease , and looked far handsomer than any Llanero the pampas could boast of . 
inquired Parke . 
`` You shall have him , '' Parke replied , `` if you will break for me the black stallion we saw in the corral last night . '' 
`` Break him yourself , Parke . 
`` Play , '' said Parke . 
`` No , '' said Parke , lazily . 
All rushed out except Parke and Osmond . 
The latter lighted a cigar , and Parke took his knife from his belt and examined its edge . 
`` Her spirit comes , '' continued Parke , `` when I do not call for it . '' 
mused Parke . 
