Katy Lennox had been for a year an inmate of Canandaigua Seminary , whither she was sent at the expense of a distant relative to whom her father had been guardian , and who , during her infancy , had had a home with Uncle Ephraim , Mrs. Lennox having brought him with her when she returned to Silverton . 
This was Helen ; but Katy was different . 
Katy was more susceptible of polish and refinement -- so the mother thought ; and as she arranged and rearranged the little parlor , lingering longest by the piano , Dr. Morris 's gift , she drew bright pictures of her favorite child , wondering how the farm-house and its inmates would seem to her after all she must have seen during her weeks of travel since the close of the summer term . 
And then she wondered why cousin Morris was so annoyed when told that Katy had accepted an invitation to accompany Mrs. Woodhull and her party on a trip to Montreal and Lake George , taking Boston on her homeward route . 
Katy 's movements were nothing to him , unless -- and the little ambitious mother struck at random a few notes of the soft-toned piano as she thought how possible it was that the interest always manifested by staid , quiet Morris Grant for her light-hearted Kate was more than a brotherly interest , such as he would naturally feel for the daughter of one who had been to him a second father . 
But Katy was so much a child when he went away to Paris that it could not be . 
She would sooner think of Helen , who was more like him . 
I brought them over in honor of Katy 's return . 
Katy will like them , I am sure , '' Mrs. Lennox said , taking from his hand a bouquet of the choice flowers which grew only in the hothouse at Linwood . 
He must be somewhat straitened just now , as Katy 's trip can not have cost him a small sum . '' 
`` Mrs. Woodhull wrote that the expense should be nothing to me , and as she is fully able and makes so much of Katy , I did not think it wrong . '' 
`` Mrs. Woodhull was so urgent and so fond of Katy ; and then I thought it well to give her the advantage of being with such people as compose that party , the very first in Canandaigua , besides some from New York , '' Mrs. Lennox began in self-defence , but Morris did not stop to hear more , and hurried off a second time , while Mrs. Lennox looked after him , wondering at the feeling which she could not understand . 
`` If Katy can go with the Woodhulls and their set , I certainly shall not prevent it , '' she thought , as she continued her arrangement of the parlor , wishing that it was more like what she remembered Mrs. Woodhull 's to have been , fifteen years ago . 
At another table stood Aunt Hannah , deep in the mysteries of the light white crust which was to cover the tender chicken boiling in the pot , while in the oven bubbled and baked the custard pie , remembered as Katy 's favorite , and prepared for her coming by Helen herself -- plain spoken , dark eyed Helen -- now out in the strawberry beds , picking the few luscious berries which almost by a miracle had been coaxed to wait for Katy , who loved them so dearly . 
Like her mother , Helen had wondered how the change would impress her bright little sister , for she remembered that even to her obtuse perceptions there had come a pang when after only three months abiding in a place where the etiquette of life was rigidly enforced , she had returned to their homely ways at Silverton , and felt that it was worse than vain to try to effect a change . 
But she was Helen , as the mother had said ; she was different from Katy , who might be lonely and homesick , sobbing herself to sleep in her patient sister 's arms , as she did on that first night in Canandaigua , which Helen remembered so well . 
`` Morris is here , and the new church , and if she likes she can teach in Sunday-school , though maybe she will prefer going with Uncle Ephraim . 
He will be pleased if she does , '' and pausing by the door , Helen looked across Fairy Pond in the direction of Silverton village , where the top of a slender spire was just visible -- the spire of St John 's , built within the year , and mostly at the expense of Dr. Morris Grant , who , a zealous churchman himself , had labored successfully to instill into Helen 's mind some of his own peculiar views , as well as to awaken in Mrs. Lennox 's heart the professions which had lain dormant for as long a time as the little black bound book had lain on the cupboard shelf , forgotten and unread . 
`` We ought to have some silver forks , '' she said despondingly , as she laid by each plate the three tined forks of steel , to pay for which Helen and Katy had picked huckleberries on the hills and dried apples from the orchard . 
`` Never mind , mother , '' Helen answered cheerily : `` if Katy is as she used to be she will care more for us than for silver , and I guess she is , for I imagine it would take a great deal to make her anything but a warmhearted , merry little creature . '' 
She was very attractive in her personal appearance , and the mental verdict of the four females regarding her intently was something as follows : Mrs. Lennox detected unmistakable marks of the grand society she had been mingling in , and was pleased accordingly ; Aunt Hannah pronounced her `` the prettiest creeter she had ever seen ; '' Aunt Betsy decided that her hoops were too big and her clothes too fine for a Barlow ; while Helen , who looked beyond dress , or style , or manner , straight into her sister 's soft blue eyes , brimming with love and tears , decided that Katy was not changed for the worse . 
Nor was she . 
Truthful , loving , simple-hearted and full of playful life she had gone from home , and she came back the same , never once thinking of the difference between the farm-house and Mrs. Woodhull 's palace , or if she did , giving the preference to the former . 
Deciding that `` it was a good thumpin ' price , '' she returned to the kitchen , where Katy , dancing and curvetting in circles , scarcely stood still long enough for them to see that in spite of boarding-school fare , of which she had complained so bitterly , her cheeks were rounder , her eyes brighter , and her figure fuller than of old . 
She had improved , but she did not appear to know it , or to guess how beautiful she was in the fresh bloom of seventeen , with her golden hair waving around her childish forehead , and her deep blue eyes laughing so expressively with each change of her constantly varying face . 
She kissed the kitten , squeezed the cat , hugged the dog , and hugged the little goat , tied to his post in the clover yard and trying so hard to get free . 
The horse , to whom she fed handfuls of grass , had been already hugged . 
She did that the first thing after strangling Uncle Ephraim as she alighted from the train , and some from the car window saw it , smiling at what they termed the charming simplicity of an enthusiastic school-girl . 
It was Katy 's shield and buckler , warding off many a cold criticism which might otherwise have been passed upon her . 
It was the first time Aunt Betsy had called a name so obnoxious to Kate , especially when , as in the present case , great emphasis was laid upon the rine , and from past experience Katy knew that her good aunt was displeased . 
Her first impulse was to accept the dish refused ; but when she remembered her reason for refusing she said , laughingly , `` Excuse me , Aunt Betsy , I love them still , but -- but -- well , the fact is , I am going by and by to run over and see Cousin Morris , inasmuch as he was not polite enough to come here , and you know it might not be so pleasant . '' 
But Katy remained incorrigible , while Helen , who guessed that her impulsive sister was contemplating a warmer greeting of the doctor than a mere shaking of his hands , kindly turned the conversation by telling how Morris was improved by his tour abroad , and how much the poor people thought of him . 
`` He is very fine looking , too , '' she said , whereupon Katy involuntarily exclaimed , `` I wonder if he is as handsome as Wilford Cameron ? 
and the little maiden began to blush as she stirred her tea industriously . 
And Katy was warm , but whether from talking of Wilford Cameron or not none could tell . 
She said no more of him , but went on to speak of Morris , asking if it were true , as she had heard , that he built the new church in Silverton . 
But Katy was so much afraid of Canandaigua , and what talking of it might lead to , that she kept to Cousin Morris , asking innumerable questions about his house and grounds , and whether there were as many flowers there now as there used to be in the days when she and Helen went to say their lessons at Linwood , as they had done before Morris sailed for Europe . 
Katy must stay at home ; but instead of lying down or talking about her journey , she explored every nook and crevice of the old house and barn , finding the nest Aunt Betsy had looked for in vain , and proving to the anxious dame that she was right when she insisted that the speckled hen had stolen her nest and was in the act of setting . 
Wilford Cameron said I ought to be , '' and Katy tossed into the air a wisp of the new-made hay . 
Katy asked , laughing , as she seated herself upon a rock near which the hay cart had stopped . 
`` Purified by suffering , '' Katy said aloud , while a shadow involuntarily crept for an instant over her gay spirits . 
She could not believe shewas to be purified by suffering . 
She had never done anything very bad , and humming a part of a song learned from Wilford Cameron she followed after the loaded cart , returning slowly to the house , thinking to herself that there must be something great and good in the suffering which should purify at last , but hoping she was not the one to whom this great good should come . 
It was supper-time ere long , and after that was over Katy announced her intention of going to Linwood whether Morris were there or not . 
`` I can see the housekeeper and the birds and flowers , '' she said , as she swung her straw hat by the string and started from the door . 
But Katy would rather go alone . 
She had a heap to tell Cousin Morris , and Helen could go next time . 
`` Just as you like , '' Helen answered , good-naturedly , and so Katy went alone to call on Morris Grant . 
How then was he amazed when , just as the sun was going down and he was watching its last rays lingering on the brow of the hill across the pond , the library door was opened wide and the room suddenly filled with life and joy , as a graceful figure , with reddish golden hair , bounded across the floor , and winding its arms around his neck gave him the hearty kiss which Katy had in her mind when she declined Aunt Betsy 's favorite vegetable . 
Morris Grant was not averse to being kissed , and yet the fact that Katy Lennox had kissed him in such a way awoke a chill of disappointment , for it said that to her he was the teacher still , the elder brother , whom , as a child , she had loaded with caresses . 
she exclaimed , `` why did n't you come over at noon , you naughty boy ! 
she added , blushing for the first time , as he held her off from him and looked into the sunny face . 
`` I think you wholly unchanged , '' he answered , so gravely that Katy began to pout as she said , `` And you are sorry , I know . 
He saw that his manner repelled her , and he tried to be natural , succeeding so well that Katy forgot her first disappointment , and making him sit by her on the sofa , where she could see him distinctly , she poured forth a volley of talk , telling him , among other things , how much afraid of him some of his letters made her -- they were so serious and so like a sermon . 
`` You wrote me once that you thought of being a minister , '' she added . 
Into Morris Grant 's eyes there stole a troubled light as he thought how little Katy realized what it was to be a minister of God -- to point the people heavenward and teach them the right way . 
There was a moment 's pause , and then he tried to explain to her that he hoped he had not been influenced either by thoughts of tea-drinkings or having the parish girls after him , but rather by an honest desire to choose the sphere in which he could accomplish the most good . 
Gradually , as he talked , there came into his face a light , born only from the peace which passeth understanding , and the awe-struck Katy crept closer to his side and grasping his hand in hers , said softly , `` Dear cousin , what a good man you are , and how silly I must seem to you , thinking you cared for tea-drinkings , or even girls , when , of course , you do not . '' 
He looked fully at Katy now , but she was thinking of something else , and her next remark was to ask him rather abruptly `` how old he was ? '' 
`` Twenty-six last May , '' he answered , while Katy continued , `` You are not old enough to be married yet . 
Morris asked , in some surprise , and then the story which Katy had not told , even to her sister , came out in full , and Morris tried to listen patiently while Katy explained how , on the very first day of the examination , Mrs. Woodhull had come in , and with her the grandest , proudest-looking man , who the girls said was Mr. Wilford Cameron , from New York , a fastidious bachelor , whose family were noted for their wealth and exclusiveness , keeping six servants , and living in the finest style ; that Mrs. Woodhull , who all through the year had been very kind to Katy , came to her after school and invited her home to tea ; that she had gone and met Mr. Cameron ; that she was very much afraid of him at first , and was not sure that she was quite over it now , although he was so polite to her all through the journey , taking so much pains to have her see the finest sights , and laughing at her enthusiasm . 
`` Yes , let me tell you , '' and Katy spoke rapidly . 
He liked my playing and liked my singing , and I guess he liked me -- that is , you know -- yes , he liked me some , '' and Katy twisted the fringe of her shawl , while Morris , in spite of the pain tugging at his heart strings , laughed aloud as he rejoined , `` I have no doubt he did ; but go on -- what next ? '' 
`` Oh , Katy , '' and Morris started as if he had been stung . 
I did not mean any harm , '' Katy said timidly , explaining how she had shrunk from the proposition which Mrs. Woodhull thought was right , urging it until she had consented , and telling how kind Mr. Cameron was , and how careful not to remind her of her indebtedness to him , attending to and anticipating every want as if she had been his sister . 
He made me think of you a little , only he is prouder , '' and Katy 's hand moved up Morris 's coat sleeve till it rested on his shoulder . 
He could not help admiring the bright little Katy -- and so conquering all ungenerous feelings , he turned to her at last , and said , `` Did my little Cousin Kitty like Wilford Cameron ? '' 
Something in Morris 's voice startled Katy strangely ; her hand came down from his shoulder , and for an instant there swept over her an emotion similar to what she had felt when with Wilford Cameron she rambled along the shores of Lake George , or sat alone with him on the deck of the steamer which carried them down Lake Champlain . 
But Morris had always been her brother , and she did not guess that she was more to him than a sister , so she answered frankly at last , `` I guess I did like him a little . 
Katy almost screamed , and Morris replied , `` Not Wilford , no ; but the mother and the sisters were in Paris , and I met them many times . '' 
Katy asked , and Morris replied that he believed the immediate object of their being there was to obtain the best medical advice for a little orphan grand-child , a bright , beautiful boy , to whom some terrible accident had happened in infancy , preventing his walking entirely , and making him nearly helpless . 
His name was Jamie , Morris said , and as he saw that Katy was interested , he told her how sweet-tempered the little fellow was , how patient under suffering , and how eagerly he listened when Morris , who at one time attended him , told him of the Saviour and his love for little children . 
Katy asked , her eyes filling with tears at the picture Morris drew of Jamie Cameron , sitting all day long in his wheel chair , and trying to comfort his grand-mother 's distress when the torturing instruments for straightening his poor back were applied . 
`` No , he died one lovely day in October , and they buried him beneath the bright skies of France , '' Morris said , and then Katy asked about the mother and sister . 
`` They were very proud , '' Morris said ; `` but they were always civil to him , '' and Katy , had she been watching , might have seen a slight flush on his cheek as he told her of the stately woman , Wilford 's mother , of the haughty Juno , a beauty and a belle , and lastly of Arabella , whom the family nicknamed Bluebell , from her excessive fondness for books , and her contempt for the fashionable life her mother and sister led . 
This was Morris 's opinion , and it disturbed little Katy , as was very perceptible from the nervous tapping of her foot upon the carpet and the working of her hands . 
she suddenly asked , her countenance changing as Morris replied that it was almost impossible to think of her as associated with the Camerons , she was so wholly unlike them in every respect . 
`` I do n't believe I shocked Wilford so very much , '' Katy rejoined , reproachfully , while again a heavy pain shot through Morris 's heart , for he saw more and more how Wilford Cameron was mingled with every thought of the young girl , who continued : `` And if he was satisfied , his mother and sisters will be . 
There were tears now on Katy 's face , and casting aside all selfishness , Morris wound his arm around her , and smoothing her golden hair , just as he used to do when she was a child and came to him to be soothed , he said , very gently , `` My poor Kitty , you do like Wilford Cameron ; tell me honestly -- is it not so ? '' 
`` Yes , I guess I do , '' and Katy 's voice was a half sob . 
Why , if he had said , ` Jump overboard , Katy Lennox , ' I should have done it , I know -- that is , if his eyes had been upon me , they controlled me so absolutely . 
It was time too for Katy to go home , but she did not seem to remember it until Morris suggested to her that her mother might be uneasy if she staid away much longer , and so they went together across the fields , the shadows all gone from Katy 's heart , but lying so dark and heavy around Morris Grant , who was glad when he could leave Katy at the farm-house door and go back alone to the quiet library , where only God could witness the mighty struggle , it was for him to say , `` Thy will be done . '' 
And while he prayed , Katy , in her humble bedroom , with her head nestled close to Helen 's neck , was telling her of Wilford Cameron , who , when they went down the rapids and she had cried with fear , had put his arm around her trying to quiet her , and who once again , on the mountain overlooking Lake George , had held her hand a moment , while he pointed out a splendid view seen through the opening trees . 
And Helen , listening , knew that Katy 's heart was lost , and that for Wilford Cameron to deceive her now would be a cruel thing . 
THE day succeeding Katy Lenox 's return to Silverton was rainy and cold for the season , the storm extending as far westward as the city of New York , and making Wilford Cameron shiver as he stepped from the Hudson River cars into the carriage waiting for him , first greeting pleasantly the white-gloved driver , who , closing the carriage door , mounted to his seat and drove his handsome bays in the direction of No . 
So , offering her his arm , he led her out to where the table was spread , widely different from the table prepared for Katy Lennox among the Silverton hills , for where at the farm-house there had been only the homely wares common to the country , with Aunt Betsy 's onions served in a bowl , there was here the finest of damask , the choicest of china , the costliest of cut-glass , and the heaviest of silver , with the well-trained waiter gliding in and out , himself the very personification of strict table etiquette , such as the Barlows had never dreamed about . 
This he would not do , and disgusted with the world as he saw it in New York , he had gone to the Far West , roaming awhile amid the solitude of the broad prairies , and finding there much that was soothing to him , but not discovering the fulfillment of the great want he was craving until coming back to Canandaigua , he met with Katy Lennox . 
Still , to be polite to Mrs. Woodhull , a childless , fashionable woman , who patronized Canandaigua generally and Katy Lennox in particular , he consented , and soon found himself in the crowded room , the cynosure of many eyes as the whisper ran round that the fine-looking man with Mrs. Woodhull was Wilford Cameron , from New York , brother to the proud , dashing Juno Cameron , who once spent a few weeks in town . 
Wilford knew they were talking about him , but he did not care , and assuming as easy an attitude as possible , he leaned back in his chair , yawning indolently until the class in Algebra was called , and Katy Lennox came tripping on the stage , a pale blue ribbon in her golden hair , and her simple dress of white relieved by no ornament except the cluster of wild flowers fastened in her belt and at her throat . 
But Katy needed no ornaments to make her more beautiful than she was at the moment when , with glowing cheeks and sparkling eyes , she first burst upon Wilford 's vision , a creature of rare , bewitching beauty , such as he had never dreamed about . 
An old acquaintance of Mrs. Lennox when she lived in East Bloomfield , Mrs. Woodhull had petted Katy from the first day of her arrival in Canadaigua with a letter of introduction to herself from the ambitious mother , and being rather inclined to match-making , she had had Katy in her mind when she urged Wilford to accompany her to the Seminary . 
Accordingly she answered him at once , `` That is Katy Lennox , daughter of Judge Lennox , who died in East Bloomfield a few years ago . '' 
`` Pretty , is she not ? '' 
Wilford did not answer her . 
He had neither eye nor ear for anything save Katy , acquitting herself with a good deal of credit as she worked out a rather difficult problem , her dimpled white hand showing to good advantage against the deep black of the board ; and then her voice , soft-toned and silvery , as a lady 's voice should be , thrilled in Wilford 's ear , awaking a strange feeling of disquiet , as if the world would never again be quite the same to him that it was before he met that fair young girl now passing from the room . 
With the exception of wealth and family position , he could not find a better wife than Katy , and she would do what she could to bring the marriage about . 
Accordingly , having first gained the preceptress 's consent , Katy was taken home with her to dinner . 
And this was how Wilford Cameron came to know little Katy Lennox , the simple-hearted child , who blushed so prettily when first presented to him , and blushed again when he praised her recitations , but who after that forgot the difference in their social relations , laughing and chatting as merrily in his presence as if she had been alone with Mrs. Woodhull . 
Katy was so wholly unconscious of herself or what he might think of her , that he could not sit in judgment upon her , and he watched her eagerly as she sported , and flashed , and sparkled , filling the room with sunshine , and putting to rout the entire regiment of blues which had been for months harassing the city-bred young man . 
If there was any one thing in which Katy excelled , it was music , both vocal and instrumental , a taste for which had been developed very early , and fostered by Morris Grant , who had seen that his cousin had every advantage which Silverton could afford . 
Great pains had been given to her style of playing while in Canandaigua , so that as a performer upon the piano she had few rivals in the seminary , while her birdlike voice filled every nook and corner of the room , where , on the night after her visit to Mrs. Woodhull , a select exhibition was held , Katy shining as the one bright star , and winning golden laurels for beauty , grace , and perfect self-possession , from others than Wilford Cameron , who was one of the invited auditors . 
Juno herself could not equal that , he thought , as Katy 's fingers flew over the keys , executing a brilliant and difficult piece without a single mistake , and receiving the applause of the spectators easily , naturally , as if it were an every day occurrence . 
But when by request she sang `` Comin ' through the Rye , '' Wilford 's heart , if he had any before , was wholly gone , and he dreamed of Katy Lennox that night , wondering all the ensuing day how his haughty mother would receive that young school girl as her daughter , wife of the son whose bride she fancied must be equal to the first lady in the land . 
And if Katy were not now equal she could be made so , Wilford thought , wondering if Canandaigua were the best place for her , and if she would consent to receive a year or two years ' tuition from him , provided her family were poor . 
He did not know as they were , but he would ask , and he did , feeling a pang of regret when he heard to some extent how Katy was circumstanced . 
Mrs. Woodhull had never been to Silverton , and so she did not know of Uncle Ephraim , and his old-fashioned sister ; but she knew that they were poor -- that some relation sent Katy to school ; and she frankly told Wilford so , adding , as she detected the shadow on his face , that one could not expect everything , and that a girl like Katy was not found every day . 
Wilford admitted all this , growing more and more infatuated , until at last he consented to join the traveling party , provided Katy joined it too , and when on the morning of their departure for the Falls he seated himself beside her in the car , he could not well have been happier , unless she had really been his wife , as he so much wished she was . 
His past life was not all free from error , and there were many sad memories haunting him , but with Katy at his side , seeing what he saw , admiring what he admired , and doing what he bade her do , he gave the bygones to the wind , feeling only an intense desire to clasp the young girl in his arms and bear her away to some spot where with her pure fresh life all his own he could begin the world anew , and retrieve the past which he had lost . 
This was when he was with Katy . 
Away from her he could remember the difference in their position , and prudential motives began to make themselves heard . 
And this was why Katy came back to Silverton unengaged , leaving her heart with Wilford Cameron , who would first seek advice from his mother ere committing himself by word . 
He had seen the white-haired man waiting for her when the train stopped at Silverton , but standing there as he did , with his silvery locks parted in the centre , and shading his honest , open face , Uncle Ephraim looked like some patriarch of old rather than a man to be despised , and Wilford felt only respect for him until he saw Katy 's arms wound so lovingly around his neck as she called him Uncle Eph . 
That sight grated harshly , and Wilford felt glad that he was not bound to her by any pledge . 
Very curiously he looked after the couple , witnessing the meeting between Katy and old Whitey , and guessing rightly that the corn-colored vehicle was the one sent to transport Katy home . 
He was intending to tell his mother everything , except that he paid Katy 's bills . 
He would rather keep that to himself , as it might shock his mother 's sense of propriety and make her think less of Katy ; so after dinner was over , and they had returned to the parlor , he opened the subject by asking her to guess what took him off so suddenly with Mrs. Woodhull . 
`` Yes , mother , it was , '' and without any reservation Wilford frankly told the story of his interest in Katy Lennox . 
He admitted that she was poor and unaccustomed to society , but he loved her more than words could express . 
In Wilford 's voice there was a tone warning the mother that opposition would only feed the flame , and so she offered none directly , but heard him patiently to the end , and then quietly questioned him of Katy and her family , especially the last . 
Were the relatives such as he never need blush to own even if they came there into their drawing-rooms as they would come if Katy did ? 
But he did not mention the deacon , though he acknowledged that Katy 's family friends were not exactly the Cameron style . 
But Katy was young : Katy could be easily moulded , and once away from her old associates , his mother and sisters could make of her what they pleased . 
`` I understand , then , that if you marry her you do not marry the family , '' and in the handsome matronly face there was an expression from which Katy would have shrunk , could she have seen it and understood its meaning . 
`` No , I do not marry the family , '' Wilford rejoined emphatically , but the expression of his face was different from his mother 's , for where she thought only of herself , not hesitating to trample on all Katy 's love of home and friends , Wilford remembered Katy , thinking how he would make amends for separating her wholly from her home as he surely meant to do if he should win her . 
`` Shall I propose to Katy Lennox , or shall I try to forget her ? '' 
`` I should not do either , '' was Mrs. Cameron 's reply , for she knew that trying to forget her was the surest way of keeping her in mind , and she dared not confess to him how determined she was that Katy Lennox should never be her daughter if she could prevent it . 
If she could not , then as a lady and a woman of policy , she should make the most of it , receiving Katy kindly and doing her best to educate her up to the Cameron ideas of style and manner . 
`` Let matters take their course for a while , '' she said , `` and see how you feel after a little . 
We are going to Newport the first of August , and perhaps you may find somebody there infinitely superior to this Katy Lennox . 
I would not tell him yet , till you are more decided , '' and the lady went hastily out into the hall to meet her husband . 
Contrary to his usual custom , he spent the short summer evening in the parlor , talking with Wilford on various items of business , and thus preventing any further conversation concerning Katy Lennox . 
It took but a short time for Wilford to fall back into his old way of living , passing a few hours of each day in his office , driving with his mother , sparring with his imperious sister Juno , and teasing his blue sister Bell , but never after that first night breathing a word to any one of Katy Lennox . 
And still Katy was not forgotten , as his mother sometimes believed . 
On the contrary , the very silence he kept concerning her increased his passion , until he began seriously to contemplate a trip to Silverton . 
Listless and taciturn , he went through with the daily routine , wondering how he had ever found happiness there , and finally , at the close of the season , casting all policy and prudence aside , he wrote to Katy Lennox that he was coming to Silverton on his way home , and that he presumed he should have no difficulty in finding his way to the farm-house . 
KATY had waited very anxiously for a letter from Wilford , and as the weeks went by and nothing came , a shadow had fallen upon her spirits and the family missed something from her ringing laugh and frolicsome ways , while she herself wondered at the change which had come over everything . 
Even the light household duties she used to enjoy so much , were irksome to her , and she enjoyed nothing except going with Uncle Ephraim into the fields where she could sit alone while he worked near by , or to ride with Morris as she sometimes did when he made his round of calls . 
She was not as good as she used to be , she thought , and with a view of making herself better she took to teaching in Morris and Helen 's Sunday School , greatly to the distress of Aunt Betsy , who groaned bitterly when both her nieces adopted the `` Episcopal quirks , '' forsaking entirely the house where , Sunday after Sunday , her old-fashioned leghorn , with its faded ribbon of green was seen , bending down in the humble worship which God so much approves . 
But teaching in Sunday-school , taken by itself , could not make Katy better , and the old restlessness remained until the morning when , sitting on the grass beneath the apple-tree , she read that Wilford Cameron was coming ; then everything was changed and Katy never forgot the brightness of that day when the robins sang so merrily above her head , and all nature seemed to sympathize with her joy . 
There was no shadow around her now , nothing but hopeful sunshine , and with a bounding step she sought out Helen to tell her the good news . 
This was the first time Katy had seriously considered the difference between her surroundings and those of Wilford Cameron , or how it might affect him . 
She guessed they were as good as he , and as much thought of by the neighbors . '' 
On Aunt Hannah and Mrs. Lennox devolved the duty of preparing for the wants of the inner man , while Helen and Katy bent their energies to beautifying their home and making the most of their plain furniture . 
The parlor must remain as it was , Katy said , and Aunt Betsy went on with her scouring , while Helen and Katy consulted together how to make the huge feather-bed more like the mattresses to which Wilford must be accustomed . 
Helen 's mind being the more suggestive , solved the problem first , and a large comfortable was brought from the box in the garret and folded carefully over the bed , which , thus hardened and flattened , `` seemed like a mattress , '' Katy said , for she tried it , feeling quite well satisfied with the room when it was finished . 
`` I 'd like to sleep here myself , '' was Katy 's comment , while Helen offered no opinion , but followed her sister into the yard , where they were to sweep the grass and prune the early September flowers . 
This she had made herself , intending it as a part of Katy 's `` setting out , '' should she ever marry ; and as things now seemed tending that way , it was only right , she thought , that Mr. Carmon , as she called him , should begin to have the benefit of it . 
There was but little chance for Aunt Betsy to be detected , for Helen , supposing the room to be in order , had dismissed it from her mind , and was training a rose over a frame , while Katy was on her way to Linwood in quest of various little things which Mrs. Lennox considered indispensable to the entertainment of a man like Wilford Cameron . 
At sight of Katy he rose and greeted her with the kind , brotherly manner now habitual with him , for he had learned to listen quite calmly while Katy talked to him , as she often did , of Wilford Cameron , never trying to conceal from him how anxious she was for some word of remembrance , and often asking if he thought Mr. Cameron would ever write to her . 
It was hard at first for Morris to listen , and harder still to keep back the passionate words of love trembling on his lips -- to refrain from asking her to take him in Cameron 's stead -- him who had loved her so long . 
Morris did not fully know that he was hugging this fond dream until he felt the keen pang which cut like a dissector 's knife as Katy , turning her bright , eager face up to him , whispered softly , `` He 's coming to-morrow -- he surely is ; I have his letter to tell me so . '' 
There was an instant of darkness , in which the hills , the pond , the sun setting , and Katy seemed a great way off to Morris , trying so hard to be calm , and mentally asking for help to do so . 
But Katy 's hat , which she swung in her hand , had become entangled in the vines encircling one of the pillars of the piazza , and so she did not notice him until all traces of his agitation were past , and he could talk with her concerning Wilford ; then playfully lifting her basket he asked what she had come to get . 
This was not the first time the great house had rendered a like service to the little house , and so Katy did not blush when she explained that her mother wanted Morris 's forks , and salt-cellars , and spoons , and would he be kind enough to bring the caster over himself , and come to dinner to-morrow at two o'clock , and would he go for Mr. Cameron ? 
The forks , and salt-cellars , and spoons , and caster were cheerfully promised , while Morris consented to go for the guest ; and then Katy came to the rest of her errand , the part distasteful to her , inasmuch as it concerned Uncle Ephraim -- honest , unsophisticated Uncle Ephraim , who would come to the table in his shirt sleeves!This was the burden of her grief -- the one thing she dreaded most , because she knew how such an act was looked upon by Mr. Cameron , who , never having lived in the country a day in his life , except as he was either guest or traveler , could not make due allowance for these little departures from refinement , so obnoxious to people of his training . 
`` What is it , Katy ? '' 
Morris asked , as he saw how she hesitated , and guessed her errand was not all told . 
`` I hope you will not think me foolish or wicked , '' Katy began , her eyes filling with tears , as she felt that she might be doing Uncle Ephraim a wrong by admitting that in any way he could be improved . 
`` Persistis hardly the word to use , '' Morris replied , smiling comically , as he readily understood Katy 's misgivings . 
`` May be not , '' Katy answered . 
Morris asked , and Katy replied , `` He is so particular , and was so very angry at a little hotel between Lakes George and Champlain , where we took our dinner before going on the boat . 
If Mr. Cameron can not stand the test of seeing your relatives as they are , he is not worth the long face you are wearing , '' and Morris pinched her cheek playfully . 
`` Yes , I know , '' Katy replied , `` but if you only could manage Uncle Eph . 
Morris had little hope of breaking a habit of years , but he promised to try if an opportunity should occur , and as Mrs. Hull , the housekeeper , had by this time gathered up the articles required for the morrow , Morris took the basket in his own hands and went with Katy across the fields . 
`` God bless you , Katy , and may Mr. Cameron 's visit bring you as much happiness as you anticipate , '' he said , as he set her basket upon the door-step and turned back without entering the house . 
Katy noticed the peculiar tone of his voice , and again there swept over her the same thrill she had felt when Morris first said to her , `` And did Katy like this Mr. Cameron ? '' 
but so far was she from guessing the truth that she only feared she might have displeased him by what she had said of Uncle Ephraim . 
Perhaps she hadwronged him , she thought , and the good old man , resting from his hard day 's toil , in his accustomed chair , with not only his coat , but his vest and boots cast aside , little guessed what prompted the caresses which Katy lavished upon him , sitting in his lap and parting his snowy hair , as if thus she would make amends for any injury done . 
Little Katy-did he called her , looking fondly into her bright , pretty face , and thinking how terrible it would be to see that face shadowed with pain and care . 
Somehow , of late , Uncle Ephraim was always thinking of such a calamity as more than possible for Katy , and when that night she knelt beside him , his voice was full of pleading earnestness as he prayed that God would keep them all in safety , and bring to none of them more grief or pain p591-049 than was necessary to fit them for himself . 
And Katy , listening to him , remembered the talk down in the meadow , when she sat on the rock beneath the butternut tree . 
But the world , while it held Wilford Cameron , as he seemed to her now , was too full of joy for her to dread what the future might have in store for her , and so she arose from her knees , thinking only how long it would be before to-morrow noon , wondering if Wilford would surely be there next time their evening prayers were said , and if he would notice Uncle Ephraim 's shocking grammar ! 
He did not expect any one to meet him , but as he remembered the man whom he had seen greeting Katy , he thought it not unlikely that he might be there now , laughing to himself as he pictured his mother 's horror , could she see him riding along in the corn-colored vehicle which Uncle Ephraim drove . 
and Wilford 's voice indicated his disappointment , for in all his mental pictures of Katy Lennox 's home he had never imagined anything like this . 
It was all very rural , no doubt , and very charming to people who liked it , but Wilford did notlike it , and he was wishing himself safely in New York when a golden head flashed for an instant before the window and then disappeared as Katy emerged into view , waiting at the door to receive him and looking so sweetly in her dress of white with the scarlet geranium blossoms in her hair that Wilford forgot the homeliness of the surroundings , thinking only of her and how soft and warm was the little hand he held as she led him into the parlor . 
He did not know she was so beautiful , he said to himself , and he feasted his eyes upon her , forgetful for a time of all else . 
But afterwards , when Katy left him for a moment , he had time to observe the well-worn carpet , the six cane-seated chairs , the large stuffed rocking-chair , the fall-leaf table , with its plain wool spread , and lastly the really expensive piano , the only handsome piece of furniture the room contained , and which he rightly guessed must have come from Morris . 
`` Mark 's favorite , '' he said , lifting up a volume of Schiller ; and turning to the fly-leaf he read , `` Helen Lennox , from Cousin Morris , '' just as Katy returned with her sister , whom she presented to the stranger . 
Helen was prepared to like him because Katy did , and her first thought was that he was very fine looking ; but when she met his cold , proud eyes , and knew how closely he was scrutinizing her , there arose in her heart a feeling of dislike which she could never wholly conquer . 
He was very polite to her , but something in his manner annoyed and irritated her , it was so cool , so condescending , as if he endured her merely because she was Katy 's sister , nothing more . 
`` Rather pretty , more character than Katy , but odd and self-willed , with no kind of style , '' was Wilford 's running comment on Helen as he took her in from the plain arrangement of her dark hair to the fit of her French calico and the cut of her linen collar . 
Fashionable dress would improve her very much , he thought , turning with a feeling of relief to Katy , whom nothing could disfigure , and who was now watching the door eagerly for the entrance of her mother . 
was Katy 's involuntary exclamation , while Helen bit her lip with vexation , for the hoophad been an afterthought to Aunt Betsy just before going in to dinner . 
Meanwhile Katy kept very silent , but when , after dinner was over and Morris was gone , she went with Wilford down to the shore of the pond , her tongue was loosed , and he found again the little fairy who had so bewitched him a few weeks before . 
And yet there was a load upon his heart , a shadow upon his brow , for he knew now that between Katy 's family and his there was a social gulf which never could be crossed by either party . 
He might bear Katy over , it was true , but would she not look longingly back to her humble home , and might he not sometimes be greatly chagrined by the sudden appearing of some one of this low-bred family who did not seem to realize how ignorant they were , or how far below him in the social scale ? 
It was very pleasant down by the pond , and Wilford kept Katy there until the sun was going down and they heard in the distance the tinkle of a bell as the deacon 's cows plodded slowly homeward . 
Unaccustomed as Wilford was to such things , he felt the influence of the deacon 's voice as he read from the word of God , and involuntarily found himself kneeling when Katy knelt , noticing the deacon 's grammar it is true , but still listening patiently to the lengthy prayer , which included him together with the rest of mankind . 
There was no chance of seeing Katy alone , that night , and so full two hours before his usual custom Wilford retired to the little room to which the deacon conducted him , saying , as he put down the lamp , `` You 'll find it pretty snug quarters , I guess , for such a close , muggy night as this . '' 
And truly they were snug quarters , Wilford thought , as he surveyed the dimensions of the room ; but there was no alternative , and a few moments found him in the centre of the two feather beds , neither Helen nor Katy having discovered the addition made by Aunt Betsy , and which came near being the death of the New York guest . 
He was but a man , subject to man 's caprices , and when next morning he met Katy Lennox , looking in her light muslin as pure and fair as the white blossoms twined in her wavy hair , his resolution began to waver . 
Again Uncle Ephraim was absent , having gone to mill before Wilford left his room , nor was he visible to the young man until after dinner , for Wilford did not go home , but drove instead with Katy in the carriage which Morris sent round , excusing himself from coming on the plea of being too busy , but saying he would join them at tea , if possible . 
Wilford 's mind was not yet fully made up , so he concluded to remain another day and see more of Katy 's family . 
Arrayed again in the pongee , but this time without the hoop , she came into the parlor , bringing her calico patch-work , which she informed him was pieced in the `` herrin ' bone pattern '' and intended for Katy ; telling him further , that the feather bed on which he slept was also a part of `` Catherine 's setting out , '' and was made from feathers she picked herself , showing him as proof a mark upon her arm , left there by the gray goose , which had proved a little refractory when she tried to draw a stocking over its head . 
Wilford groaned , and Katy 's chance for being Mrs. Cameron was growing constantly less and less as he saw more and more how vast was the difference between the Barlows and himself . 
Helen , he acknowledged , was passable , though she was not one whom he could ever introduce into New York society ; and he was wondering how Katy chanced to be so unlike the rest , when Uncle Ephraim came up from the meadow , and announced himself as ready now to visit , apologizing for his apparent neglect , and seeming so absolutely to believe that his company was desirable , that Wilford felt amused , wondering again what Juno , or even Mark Ray , would think of the rough old man , sitting with his chair tipped back against the wall , and going occasionally to the door to relieve himself of his tobacco juico , for chewing was one of the deacon 's weaknesses . 
His pants were faultlessly clean , and his vest was buttoned nearly up to his throat , but his coat was hanging on a nail out by the kitchen door , and , to Katy 's distress and Wilford 's horror , he sat among them in his shirt sleeves , all unconscious of harm or of the disquiet awakened in the bosom of the young man , who on that point was foolishly fastidious , and who showed by his face how much he was annoyed . 
This was the first opportunity Morris had had of trying his powers of persuasion upon the deacon , and now , at a hint from Katy , he said to him in an aside , as they were passing into the dining room : `` Suppose , Uncle Ephraim , you put on your coat for once . 
All but Morris and Katy -- he didmake an exception in their favor , leaning most to Morris , whom he admired more and more , as he became better acquainted with him , wondering how he could content himself to settle down quietly in Silverton , when he would surely die if compelled to live there for a week . 
Poor Katy ! 
how her heart would have ached could she have heard those words and understood their meaning , just as Morris did , feeling a rising indignation for the man with whom he could not be absolutely angry , he was so self-possessed , so pleasant and gentlemanly , while better than all , was he not virtually giving Katy up ? 
and if he did might she not turn at last to him ? 
These were Morris 's thoughts as he walked with Wilford across the fields to the farm-house , where Katy met them with her sunniest smile , singing to them , at Wilford 's request , her sweetest song , and making him half wish he could revoke his hasty decision and tarry a little longer . 
But it was now too late for that , the carriage which would take him to the depot was already on its way from Linwood ; and when the song was ended he told her of his intentions to leave on the next train , feeling a pang when he saw how the blood left her cheek and lip , and then came surging back as she said timidly , `` Why need you leave so soon ? '' 
I thought of going yesterday , and my partner , Mr. Ray , will be expecting me , '' Wilford replied , laying his hand upon Katy 's hair , while Morris and Helen stole quietly from the room . 
`` Yes , '' and Katy 's blue eyes were lifted pleadingly to the young man , who had never loved her so well as at that very moment when resolving to cast her off . 
This was Aunt Betsy 's parting remark , and , after Katy , Aunt Betsy liked Wilford Cameron better than any one of the group which watched him as he drove from their door . 
Aunt Hannah thought him too much stuck up for farmers ' folks ; Mrs. Lennox , whose ambition would have accounted him a most desirable match for her daughter , could not deny that his manner towards them , though polite in the extreme , was that of a superior to people greatly beneath him ; while Helen , who saw clearer than the rest , read him aright , and detected the struggle between his pride and his love for poor little Katy , whom she found sitting on the floor , just where Wilford left her standing , her head resting on the chair and her face hidden in her hands as she sobbed quietly , hardly knowing why she cried or what to answer when Helen asked what was the matter . 
`` Never mind , Katy , '' Helen said , soothingly . 
This was Helen 's reasoning ; but it did not comfort Katy , whose face looked white and sad , as she moved listlessly about the house , almost crying again when she heard in the distance the whistle of the train which was to carry Wilford Cameron away and end his first visit to Silverton . 
KATY LENNOX had been very sick , and the bed where Wilford slept had stood in the parlor during the long weeks while the obstinate fever ran its course ; but she was better now , and sat nearly all day before the fire , sometimes trying to crochet a little , and again turning over the books which Morris had bought to interest her -- Morris , the kind physician , who had attended her so faithfully , never leaving her while the fever was at its height , unless it was necessary , but staying with her day and night , watching her symptoms carefully , and praying so earnestly that she might not die , not , at least , until some token had been given that again in the better world he should find her , where partings were unknown and where no Wilford Camerons could contest the prize with him . 
Not that he was greatly afraid of Wilford now ; that fear had mostly died away just as the hope had died from Katy 's heart that she would ever meet him again . 
Since the September morning when he left her , she had not heard from him except once , when in the winter Morris had been to New York , and having a few hours ' leisure on his hands had called at Wilford 's office , receiving a most cordial reception , and meeting with Mark Ray , who impressed him as a man quite as highly cultivated as Wilford , and possessed of more character and principle . 
This call was not altogether of Morris 's seeking , but was made rather with a view to pleasing Katy , who , when she learned that he was going to New York , had said inadvertently , `` Oh , I do so hope you 'll meet with Mr. Cameron , for then we shall know that he is neither sick nor dead , as I have sometimes feared . '' 
The first commonplaces over , Wilford inquired for Katy . 
Was she well , and how was she occupying her time this winter ? 
`` Both Helen and Katy are pupils of mine , '' Morris replied , `` reciting their lessons to me every day when the weather will admit of their crossing the fields to Linwood . 
Morris did not regret having accepted Wilford 's invitation to dinner , as by this means he saw the home which had well nigh been little Katy Lennox 's . 
She would be sadly out of place here with these people , he thought , as he looked upon all their formality and ceremony , and then contrasted it with what Katy had been accustomed to . 
Juno would kill her outright , was his next mental comment , as he watched that haughty young lady , dividing her coquetries between himself and Mr. Ray , who being every way desirable , both in point of family and wealth , was evidently her favorite . 
When Wilford first returned from Silverton he had , as a sure means of forgetting Katy , told his mother and sisters something of the farm-house and its inmates ; and Juno , while ridiculing both Helen and Katy , had felt a fierce pang of jealousy in knowing they were cousins to Morris Grant , who lived so near that he could , if he liked , see them every day . 
In Paris Juno had suspected that somebody was standing between her and Dr. Grant , and with the quick insight of a smart , bright woman , she guessed that it was one of these cousins -- Katy most likely , her brother having described Helen as very common place , -- and for a time she had hated poor , innocent Katy most cordially for having come between her and the only man for whom she had ever really cared . 
Gradually , however , the feeling died away , but was revived again at sight of Morris Grant , and at the table she could not forbear saying to him , `` By the way , Dr. Grant , why did you never tell us of those charming cousins , when you were in Paris ? 
Katy , I think , is her name . 
Wilford , is n't it Katy Lennox whom you think so beautiful , and with whom you are more than half in love ? '' 
`` Yes , it isKaty , '' and Wilford spoke sternly , for he did not like Juno 's bantering tone , but he could not stop her , and she went on , `` Are they your own cousins , Dr. Grant ? '' 
The fact that Katy Lennox was not nearly enough related to Dr. Grant to prevent his marrying her if he liked , did not improve Juno 's amiability , and she continued to ask questions concerning both Katy and Helen , the latter of whom she persisted in thinking was strong-minded , until Mark Ray came to the rescue , diverting her attention by adroitly complimenting her in some way , and so relieving Wilford and Morris , both of whom were exceedingly annoyed . 
`` When Will visits Silverton again I mean to go with him , '' she said to Morris at parting , but he did not tell her that such an event would give him the greatest pleasure . 
Biting her lip with chagrin , Juno went back to the drawing room , while Morris returned to his hotel , accompanied by Wilford , who passed the entire evening with him , appearing somewhat constrained , as if there was something on his mind which he wished to say ; but it remained unspoken , and there was no allusion to Silverton until , as Wilford was leaving , he said , `` Remember me kindly to the Silverton friends , and say I have not forgotten them . '' 
And this was all there was to carry back to Katy , who on the afternoon of Morris 's return from New York was at Linwood , waiting to pour his tea and make his toast , she pretended , though the real reason was shining all over her tell-tale face , which grew so bright and eager when Morris said , `` I dined at Mr. Cameron 's , Kitty . '' 
`` And that was all , '' Katy whispered sorrowfully as she beat the damask cloth softly with her fingers , shutting her lips tightly together to keep back her disappointment . 
When Morris glanced at her again there was a tear on her long eye-lashes , and it dropped upon her cheek , followed by another and another , but he did not seem to see it , and talked of New York and the fine sights in Broadway until Katy was able to take part in the conversation . 
`` Please do n't tell Helenthat you saw Wilford , '' she said to Morris as he walked home with her after tea , and that was the only allusion she made to it , never after that mentioning Wilford 's name or giving any token of the love still so strong within her heart , and waiting only for some slight token to waken it again to life and vigor . 
This was in the winter , and Katy had been very sick since then , while Morris had come to believe that Wilford was forgotten , and when , as she grew stronger , he saw how her eyes sparkled at his coming , and how impatient she seemed if he was obliged to hurry off , hope whispered that she would surely be his , and his usually grave face wore a look of happiness which his patients noticed , feeling themselves better after one of his cheery visits . 
he was little prepared for the terrible blow in store for him , when one day early in April he started , as usual , to visit Katy , saying to himself , `` If I find her alone , perhaps I 'll ask if she will come to Linwood this summer ; '' and Morris paused a moment beneath a beechwood tree to still the throbbings of his heart , which beat so fast as he thought of going home from his weary work and finding Katy there , his little wife -- whom he might caress and love all his affectionate nature would prompt him to . 
He knew that in some points she was weak , but then she was very young , and there was about her so much of purity , innocence , and perfect beauty , that few men , however strong their intellect , could withstand her , and Morris felt that in possessing her he should have all he needed to make this life desirable . 
She would improve as she grew older , and it would be a most delightful task to train her into what she was capable of becoming . 
Katy was alone , sitting up in her pretty dressing gown of blue , which was so becoming to her pure complexion . 
Her hair , which had been all cut away during her long sickness , was growing out again somewhat darker than before , and lay in rings upon her head , making her look more childish than ever . 
He liked to have her a child , and he thought he had never seen her so beautiful as she was this morning , when , with glowing cheek and dancing eyes , she greeted him as he came in , `` Oh , Dr. Morris ! '' 
she began , holding up a letter she had in her hand , `` I am so glad you 've come ! 
And she held it toward the young man leaning against the mantel and panting for the breath which came so heavily . 
`` Perhaps I ought not to read it , '' he said , but Katy insisted , and thinking to himself , `` It will cure me sooner perhaps , '' he read the few lines Wilford Cameron had written to his `` dear little Katy . '' 
That was the way he addressed her , going on to say that circumstances which he could not explain to her had kept him silent ever since he left her the previous autumn ; but through all he never for a moment had forgotten her , thinking of her the more for the silence he had maintained . 
Morris read the letter through , feeling that every word was separating him further and further from Katy , to whom he said , `` You will answer this ? '' 
and Katy 's blue eyes looked wonderingly at Morris , who hardly knew what he was doing , or why he said to her next , `` Listen to me , Katy . 
You know why Wilford Cameron comes here a second time , and what he will probably ask you ere he goes away : but , Katy , you are not strong enough yet to see him under so exciting circumstances , and , as your physician , I desire that you tell him to wait at least three weeks before he comes . 
Will you do so , Katy ? '' 
`` That is just as Helen talked , '' Katy answered mournfully . 
Morris asked again , while Katy after a moment consented , and glad of this respite from what he knew to a certainty would be , Morris dealt out her medicine , and for an instant felt her rapid pulse , but did not retain her hand within his own , nor lay his other upon her head , as he had sometimes done . 
To the farm-house he went every day , talking most with Helen now , but never forgetting who it was sitting so demurely in the arm-chair , or flitting about the room , for Katy was gaining rapidly . 
Love perhaps had had nothing to do with her dangerous illness , but it had much to do with her recovery , and those not in the secret wondered to see how she improved , her cheeks growing round and full and her eyes shining with returning health and happiness . 
At Helen 's instigation Katy had deferred Wilford 's visit four weeks instead of three , but in that time there had come two letters from him , so full of anxiety and sympathy for `` his poor little Katy who had been so sick , '' that even Helen began to think that he was not as proud and heartless as she supposed , and that he did love her sister after all . 
`` If I supposed he meant to deceive her I should wish I was a man to cowhide him , '' she said to herself , with flashing eye , as she heard Katy exulting that he was coming `` to-morrow . '' 
This time he would stop at Linwood , for Katy had asked Morris if he might , while Morris had told her yes , feeling his heart-wound throb afresh , as he thought how hard it would be to entertain his rival . 
Of himself Morris could do nothing , but with the help he never sought in vain he could doall things , and so he gave orders that the best chamber should be prepared for his guest , bidding Mrs. Hull see that no pains were spared for his entertainment , and then with Katy he waited for the day , the last one in April , which would bring Wilford Cameron asecon time to Silverton . 
WLFORD CAMERON had tried to forget Katy Lennox , both for his sake and her own , for he foresaw that she could not be happy with his family , and he came to think it might be a wrong to her to transplant her into a soil so wholly unlike that in which her habits and affections had taken root . 
This was the elder Cameron 's counsel , and Katy 's cause rose fifty per cent . 
Fond of fun and frolic , Mark laughed immoderately at Wilford 's description of Aunt Betsy bringing her `` herrin ' - bone '' patch work into the parlor , and telling him it was a part of Katy 's `` settin ' out , '' but when it came to her hint for an invitation to visitNew York , the amused young man roared with laughter , wishing so much that he might live to see the day when poor Aunt Betsy Barlow stood ringing for admittance at No . 
But Wilford was too serious for trifling , and after his merriment had subsided , Mark talked with him candidly of Katy Lennox , whose cause he warmly espoused , telling Wilford that he was far too sensitive with regard to family and position . 
He had made up his mind at last to marry Katy Lennox if she would accept him , and he told his mother so in presence of his sisters , when one evening they were all kept at home by the rain . 
There was a sudden uplifting of Bell 's eyelashes , a contemptuous shrug of her shoulders , and then she went on with the book she was reading , wondering if Katy was at all inclined to literature , and thinking if she were that it might be easier to tolerate her . 
Juno , who was expected to say the sharpest things , turned upon him with the exclamation , `` If you can stand those two feather beds , you can do more than I supposed , '' and as one means of showing her disapproval , she quitted the room , while Bell , who had taken to writing articles on the follies of the age , soon followed her sister to elaborate an idea suggested to her mind by her brother 's contemplated marriage . 
Thus left alone with her son , Mrs. Cameron tried all her powers of persuasion upon him . 
As Juno remained , the conversation was not resumed , and the next morning Wilford wrote to Katy Lennox the letter which carried to her so much of joy , and to Dr. Grant so much of grief . 
To wait four weeks , as Katy said he must , was a terrible trial to Wilford , who counted every moment which kept him from her side . 
It was all owing to Dr. Grant and that perpendicular Helen , he knew , for Katy in her letter had admitted that the waiting was wholly their suggestion ; and Wilford 's thoughts concerning them were anything but complimentary , until a new idea was suggested , which drove every other consideration from his mind . 
Wilford was naturally jealous , but that fault had once led him into so deep a trouble that he had struggled to overcome it , and now , at its first approach , after he thought it dead , he tried to shake it off -- tried not to believe that Morris cared especially for Katy . 
Katy 's life should not be darkened by the green monster , he thought , and her future would have been bright indeed had it proved all that he pictured it as he drove along with Morris in the direction of the farm-house . 
Katy was waiting for him , and he did not hesitate to kiss her more than once as he kept her for a moment in his arms , and then held her off to see if her illness had left any traces upon her . 
It had not , except it were in the increased delicacy of her complexion and the short hair now growing out in silky rings . 
She was very pretty in her short hair , but Wilford felt a little impatient as he saw how childish it made her look , and thought how long it would take for it to attain its former length . 
He was already appropriating her to himself , and devising ways of improving her . 
In New York , with Morris Grant standing before his jealous gaze , he could see no fault in Katy , and even now , with her beside him , and the ogre jealousy gone , he saw no fault in her ; it was only her hair , and that would be remedied in time ; otherwise she was perfect , and in his delight at meeting her again he forgot to criticise the farm-house and its occupants , as he had done before . 
Helen , on the contrary , was unusually cool , confirming him in his opinion that she was strong-minded and self-willed , and making him resolve to remove Katy as soon as possible from her influence . 
When talking with his mother he had said that if Katy told him `` yes , '' he should probably place her at some fashionable school for a year or two ; but on the way to Silverton he had changed his mind . 
He could not wait a year , and if he married Katy at all , it should be immediately . 
He would then take her to Europe , where she could have the best of teachers , besides the advantage of traveling ; and it was a very satisfactory picture he drew of the woman whom he should introduce into New York society as his wife , Mrs. Wilford Cameron . 
It is true that Katy had not yet said the all-important word , but she was going to say it , and when late that afternoon they came from the walk he had asked her to take , she had listened to his tale of love and was his promised wife . 
Katy was no coquette ; whatever she felt she expressed , and she had frankly confessed to Wilford her love for him , telling him how the fear that he had forgotten her had haunted her all the long winter ; and then with her clear , truthful blue eyes looking into his , asking him why he had not sent her some message if , as he said , he loved her all the time . 
For a moment Wilford 's lip was compressed and a flush overspread his face , as , drawing her closer to him , he replied , `` My little Katy will remember that in my first note I spoke of certain circumstances which had prevented my writing earlier . 
I do not know that I asked her not to seek to know those circumstances ; but I ask it now . 
He was kissing her fondly , and his voice was so winning that Katy promised , and then came the hardest , the trying to tell her all , as he had said to his mother he would . 
Twice he essayed to speak , and as often something sealed his lips , until at last he began , `` You must not think me perfect , Katy , for I have faults , and perhaps if you knew my past life you would wish to revoke your recent decision and render a different verdict to my suit . 
`` No , no , oh no , '' and Katy playfully stopped his mouth with her hand . 
And so the golden moment fled , and when he spoke again he said , `` If Katy will not now read the leaf I offered to show her , she must not shrink in horror , if ever it does meet her eye . '' 
`` I wo n't , I promise , '' Katy answered , a vague feeling of fear creeping over her as to what the reading of that mysterious page involved . 
But this was soon forgotten , as Wilford , remembering his suspicions of Dr. Grant , thought to probe her a little by asking if she had ever loved any one before himself . 
`` No , never , '' she answered . 
It sounds more familiar ; '' and then he told her of his projected tour to Europe , and Katy felt her pulses quicken as she thought of London , Paris and Rome , as places which her plain country eyes might yet look upon . 
But when it came to their marriage , which Wilford said must be within a few weeks -- she demurred , for this arrangement was not in accordance with her desires ; and she opposed her lover with all her strength , telling him she was so young , not eighteen till July , and she knew so little of housekeeping . 
He must let her stay at home until she learned at least the art of making bread ! 
Poor , ignorant Katy ! 
Wilford could not forbear a smile as he thought how different were her views from his , and tried to explain that the art of bread-making , though very desirable in most wives , was notan essential accomplishment for his . 
Servants would do that ; besides he did not intend to have a house of his own at once ; he should take her first to live with his mother , where she could learn what was necessary much better than in Silverton . 
Wilford Cameron expected to be obeyed in every important matter by the happy person who should be his wife , and as he possessed the faculty of enforcing perfect obedience without seeming to be severe , so he silenced Katy 's arguments , and when they left the shadow of the butternut tree she knew that in all human probability six weeks ' time would find her on the broad ocean alone with Wilford Cameron . 
So perfect was Katy 's faith and love that she had no fear of Wilford now , but as his affianced wife walked confidently by his side , feeling fully his equal , nor once dreaming how great the disparity his city friends would discover between the fastidious man of fashion and the unsophisticated country girl . 
`` When I get a house of my own I mean she shall live with me all the while , '' she said , stooping to gather a tuft of wild blue-bells growing in a marshy spot . 
Wilford winced a little , but he would not so soon tear down Katy 's castles , and so he merely remarked , as she asked if it would not be nice to have Helen with them , `` Yes , very nice ; but do not speak of it to her yet , as it will probably be some time before she will come to us . '' 
Something though in Katy 's face made her guess that to her was lost forever the bright little sister whom she loved so dearly , and fleeing up the narrow stairway to her room she wept bitterly as she thought of the coming time when she would occupy that room alone , and know that never again would a little golden head lie upon her neck just as it had lain , for there would be a new love , a new interest between them , a love for the man whose voice she could hear now talking to her mother in the peculiar tone he always assumed when speaking to any one of them excepting Morris or Katy . 
`` I wish it were not wrong to hate him , '' she exclaimed passionately ; `` it would be such a relief ; but if he is only kind to Katy , I do not care how much he despises us , '' and bathing her face , Helen sat down by her window , wondering , if Mr. Cameron took her sister , when it would probably be . 
`` Not this year or more , '' she said , `` for Katy is so young ; '' but on this point she was soon set right by Katy herself , who , leaving her lover alone with her mother , stole up to tell her sister the good news . 
I shall love you just the same , and you are coming to live with us , '' Katy said , forgetting Wilford 's instructions in her desire to comfort Helen , who broke down again , while Katy 's tears were mingled with her own . 
It was the first time Katy had thought what it would be to leave forever the good , patient sister , who had been so kind , treating her like a petted kitten and standing between her and every hardship . 
`` Do n't cry , Nellie , '' she said , `` New York is not far away , and I shall come so often , that is , after we return from Europe . 
`` So soon -- oh Katy ! 
`` Yes , it is soon , and I am young : but Wilford is in such a hurry ; he do n't care , '' Katy replied , trying to comfort Helen , and begging of her not to cry so hard . 
No , Wilford did not care how much he wrung the hearts of Katy 's family by taking her from them at once , and by dictating to a certain extent the way in which he would take her . 
Wilford knew just how pleased she was , and her obsequious manner annoyed him far more than Helen 's blunt straightforwardness , when , after supper was over , she told him how averse she was to his taking Katy so soon , adding still further that if it must be , she saw no harm in inviting a few of their neighbors . 
It was customary , it would be expected , she said , while Mrs. Lennox , emboldened by Helen 's boldness , chimed in , `` at least yourfolks will come ; I shall be glad to meet your mother . '' 
In comparative silence he heard from Wilford of his engagement , offering no objection when told how soon the marriage would take place , but congratulating him so quietly , that if Wilford had retained a feeling of jealousy , it would have disappeared ; Morris was so seemingly indifferent to everything except Katy 's happiness . 
Those were dark hours for Morris Grant , and he was glad when at the end of the second day Wilford 's visit expired , and he saw him driven from Linwood round to the farm-house , where he would say his parting words to Katy and then go back to New York . 
she said , her cheek flushing with anger and insulted pride as she read the following brief lines : `` Miss Helen Lennox : Please pardon the liberty I have taken in inclosing the sum of $ 500 to be used by you in procuring whatever Katy may need for present necessities . 
He wished Katy to look well , and foolishly fancying that no country artiste could make her look so , he consented to Mrs. Ryan 's going , never dreaming of the effect it would have upon Helen , whose first impulse was to throw the check into the fire . 
`` I know it is wrong , '' Helen answered , `` but somehow since he came after Katy , I have grown so hard , so wicked toward Mr. Cameron . 
Say , Cousin Morris , do you think him a good man , that is , good enough for Katy ? '' 
`` Most people would call him too good for her , '' Morris replied . 
`` And , in a worldly point of view , she is doing well . 
Now , Morris , we do not want him to get Katy 's outfit . 
`` As your brother , I can and will supply Katy 's needs . '' 
We are not as poor as you suppose , and would almost deem it sacrilege to let another than ourselves provide for Katy so long as she is ours . 
Wilford would marry Katy Lennox , and she must make the best of it , so she offered no remonstrance , but , when they were alone , she said to him , `` Did you tell her ? 
Whatever it was which Wilford had to tell Katy Lennox , it was very evident that he and his mother looked at it differently , he regarding it as a duty he owed to Katy not to conceal from her what might possibly influence her decision , while his mother only wished the secret told in hopes that it would prevent the marriage ; but now that Wilford had deferred it till after the marriage , she saw no reason why it need be told at all . 
`` Wilford tells me Katy and Bell are about the same size and figure , and Ryan shall make up a traveling suit proper for the occasion . 
This was said to Juno as the more fashionable one of the sisters , but Bell answered quickly , `` Poplin , mother , on Katy ? 
It will not become her style , I am sure , though suitable for many . 
It will suit her better than a heavy poplin . '' 
And so the dress-making for Katy 's bridal was proceeding in New York , in spite of Helen 's letter ; while down in Silverton , at the farm-house , there were numerous consultations as to what was proper and what was not , Helen sometimes almost wishing she had suffered Mrs. Ryan to come . 
Katy would look well in anything , but Helen knew there were certain styles preferable to others , and in a maze of perplexity she consulted with this and that individual , until all Silverton knew what was projected , each one offering the benefit of her advice until Helen and Katy were nearly distracted . 
That would answer for one dress , Helen said , but not for the wedding ; and she was becoming more undecided , when Morris came to the rescue , telling Katy of a young woman who had for some time past been his patient , but who was now nearly well and anxious to obtain work again . 
She had evidently seen better days , he said ; was very ladylike in her manner , and possessed of a great deal of taste , he imagined ; besides that , she had worked in one of the largest shops in New York . 
We would like it so much if you could go to our house instead of having Katy come here . '' 
`` Was it an elaborate trousseau she was expected to make ? '' 
We can not afford as much for Katy as we would like ; beside , I dare say Mr. Cameron will prefer selecting most of her wardrobe himself , as he is very wealthy and fastidious , '' Helen replied , repenting the next instant the part concerning Mr. Cameron 's wealth , as that might look like boasting to Miss Hazelton , whose head was bent lower over the magazine as she said , `` Did I understand that the gentleman 's name was Cameron ? '' 
`` Nothing , except that she came to North Silverton a year ago , opening her shop , and by her faithfulness , and pleasant , obliging manners , winning favor with all who employed her . 
Previous to her sickness she had a few times attended St. Paul 's at South Silverton , that being the church of her choice . 
Marian Hazelton had made a strong impression on Helen 's mind , and she talked of her so much that Katy waited her appearance at the farm-house with feverish anxiety . 
It was evening when she came , looking very white , and seeming to Helen as if she had changed since she saw her first . 
Katy felt its influence at once , growing very confidential with the stranger , who , during the half hour in which they were accidentally left alone , drew from her every particular concerning her intended marriage . 
Very closely the dark blue eyes scrutinized little Katy , taking in first the faultless beauty of her face , and then going away down into the inmost depths of her character , as if to find out what was there . 
`` You look very young to be married , '' Miss Hazleton said to her once , and shaking back her short rings of hair Katy answered , `` Eighteen next Fourth of July ; but Mr. Cameron is thirty . '' 
was the next question , which Katy answered with a merry laugh . 
A long time she stood before the glass , brushing her dark abundant hair , and intently regarding her own features , while in her eyes there was a hard , terrible look , from which Katy Lennox would have shrunk in fear . 
But that too passed , and the eyes grew soft with tears as she turned away , and falling on her knees moaned sadly , `` I never will -- no , I never will . 
Were it the other one -- Helen -- I might , for she could bear it ; but Katy , that child -- no , I never will , '' and as the words died on her lips there came struggling up from her heart a prayer for Katy Lennox 's happniess , as fervent and sincere as any which had ever been made for her since she was betrothed . 
They gre to liking each other rapidly , Marian and Katy , the latter of whom thought her new friend greatly out of place as a dressmaker , telling her she ought to marry some rich man , calling her Marian altogether , and questioning her very closely of her previous life . 
But Marian only told her that she was born in London ; that she learned her trade on the Isle of Wight , near to the Osburne House , where the royal family sometimes came , and that she had often seen the present Queen , thus trying to divert Katy 's mind from asking what there was besides that apprenticeship to the Misses True on the Isle of Wight . 
Once indeed she went farther , saying that her friends were dead ; that she had come to America in hopes of doing better than she could at home ; that she had stayed in New York until her health began to fail , and then had tried what country air would do , coming to North Silverton because a young woman who worked in the same shop was acquainted there , and recommended the place . 
This was all Katy could learn , and Marian 's heart history , if she had one , was guarded carefully . 
Miss Hazelton must fit it , of course , but to her belonged the privilege of making it , every stitch ; Katy would think more of it if she did it all , she said ; but she did not confess how the bending over that dress , both early and late , was the escape-valve for the feeling which otherwise would have found vent in passionate tears . 
Helen was very wretched during the pleasant May days she usually enjoyed so much , but over which now a dark pall was spread , shutting out all the brightness and leaving only the terrible certainty that Katy was lost to her forever -- bright , frolicsome Katy , who , without a shadow on her heart , sported amid the bridal finery , unmindful of the anguish tugging at the hearts of both the patient women , Marian and Helen , who worked on so silently , reserving their tears for the night-time , when Katy was dreaming of Wilford Cameron . 
Only once did she break entirely down , and that was when the dress was done and Katy tried it on , admiring its effect , and having a second glass brought that she might see it behind . 
she exclaimed ; `` and the more valuable because you made it . 
I shall think of you every time I wear it , '' and the impulsive girl wound her arms around Helen 's neck , kissing her lovingly , while Helen sank into a chair and sobbed aloud , `` Oh , Katy , darling Katy ! 
In an instant Katy was on her knees before Helen , whom she tried to comfort by telling her she should come back , -- come often , too , staying a long while ; and that when she had a city home of her own she should live with her for good , and they would be so happy . 
It spoils all my pleasure , '' and Katy 's soft hands wiped away the tears running so fast over her sister 's face . 
After that Helen did not cry again in Katy 's presence , but the latter knew she wanted to , and it made her rather sad , particularly when she saw reflected in the faces of the other members of the family the grief she had witnessed in Helen . 
Even Uncle Ephraim was not as cheerful as usual , and once when Katy came upon him in the woodshed chamber , where he was shelling corn , she found him resting from his work and looking from the window far off across the hills , with a look which made her guess he was thinking of her , and stealing up beside him she laid her hand upon his wrinkled face , whispering softly , `` Poor Uncle Eph , are you sorry , too ? '' 
He knew what she meant , and the aged chin quivered , while a big tear dropped into the tub of corn as he replied . 
That was all he said , and Katy , after smoothing his silvery hair a moment , kissed his cheek and then stole away , wondering if the love to which she was going was equal to the love of home , which , as the days went by , grew stronger and stronger , enfolding her in a mighty embrace , which could only be severed by bitter tears and fierce heart-pangs , such as death itself sometimes brings . 
In that household there was , after Katy , no one glad of that marriage except the mother , and she was only glad because of the position it would bring to her daughter . 
But among them all Morris suffered most , and suffered more because he had to endure in secret , so that no one guessed the pain it was for him to go each day where Katy was , and watch her as she sometimes donned a part of her finery for his benefit , asking him once if he did not wish he were in Wilford 's place , so as to have as pretty a bride as she should make . 
Then Marian Hazelton glanced up in time to see the expression of his face , a look whose meaning she readily recognized , and when Dr. Grant left the farm-house that day , another than himself knew of his love for Katy , drawing her breath hurriedly as she thought of taking back the words , `` I never will , '' -- of revoking that decision and telling Katy what Wilford Cameron should have told her long before . 
But the wild wish fled , and Wilford 's secret was safe , while Marian watched Morris Grant with a pitying interest as he came among them , speaking always in the same kind , gentle tone , and trying so hard to enter into Katy 's joy . 
Marian Hazelton was going home , for she would not stay at the farm-house until all was over , notwithstanding Katy 's entreaties were joined to those of Helen . 
`` Perhaps she would come to the church , '' she said , `` though she could not promise ; '' and her manner was so strange that Katy wondered if she could have offended her , and at last said to her timidly , as she stood with her bonnet on , waiting for Uncle Ephraim , `` You are not angry with me for anything , are you ? '' 
and Katy never forgot the glitter of the tearful eyes , or their peculiar expression as they turned upon her . 
`` No , oh , on ; I could not be angry with you , and yet , Katy Lennox , some in my position would hateyou , contrasting your prospects with their own ; but I do not ; I love you ; I bless you , and pray that you may be happy with your husband ; honor him , obey him if need be , and above all , never give him the slightest cause to doubt you . 
You will have admirers , Katy Lennox . 
She touched her lips to Katy 's forehead , and when they were withdrawn there were great tears there which she had left ! 
Marian 's tears on Katy 's brow ; and it was very meet that just before her bridal day Wilford Cameron 's bride should receive such baptism from Marian Hazelton . 
Katy was sure of a place in his heart just because of the pride which was building up so high a wall between her and her friends , and when at parting he held his son 's hand in his , he said , `` I charge you Will , be kind to that young girl , and do n't for Heaven 's sake go to cramming her with airs and nonsense which she does not understand . 
Either was suitable for the wedding day , Mrs. Cameron said , and she might take her choice , only Wilford must see that she did not wear with the poplin the gloves and belt intended for the silk ; country people had so little taste , and she did want Katy to look well , even if she were not there to see her . 
And with his brain a confused medley of poplins and plaids , belts and gloves , pearls and Katy , Wilford finally tore himself away , and at three o'clock that afternoon drove through Silverton village , past the little church , which the Silverton maidens were decorating with flowers , pausing a moment in their work to look at him as he went by . 
`` The handsomest man I ever saw , '' was the verdict of most of the girls as they came back to their work , while Wilford drove on to the farm-house where Katy had been so anxiously watching for him . 
When he came in sight , however , and she knew he was actually there , she ran away to hide her blushes , and the feeling of awe which had come suddenly over her for the man who was to be her husband . 
Katy had heard much of diamonds , and seen some in Canandaigua ; but the idea that she , plain Katy Lennox , would ever wear them , had never entered her mind ; and now , as she looked at the brilliant gem sparkling upon her hand , she felt a thrill of something more than joy at that good fortune which had brought her to diamonds . 
Vanity , we suppose it was -- such vanity as was very natural in her case , and she thought she should never tire of looking at the precious stone ; but when Wilford showed her next the plain broad band of gold , and tried it on her third finger , asking if she knew what it meant , the true woman spoke within her , and she answered tearfully , `` Yes , I know , and I will try to prove worthy of what I shall be to you when I wear that ring for good . '' 
Katy was very quiet for a moment as she sat with her head nestled against Wilford 's bosom , but when he observed that she was looking tired , and asked if she had been working hard , the quiet fit was broken , and she told him of the dress `` we had made , '' the wereferring solely to Helen and Marian , for Katy had hardly done a thing . 
But it did not matter ; she fancied she had , and she asked if he did not wish to see her dresses . 
Wilford knew it would please Katy , and so he followed her into the adjoining room , where they were spread out upon tables and chairs , with Helen in their midst , ready to pack them away . 
Helen could not answer , but turned away to hide her face , while Katy showed one dress after another , until she came to the silk , which , with a bright blush , she told him `` was the very thing itself -- the one intended for to-morrow , '' and asked if he did not like it . 
Wilford could not help telling her yes , for he knew she wished him to do so , but in his heart he was thinking bad thoughts against the wardrobe of his bride elect -- thoughts which would have won for him the title of hen-huzzyfrom Helen , could she have known them . 
He had been accustomed all his life to hearing dress discussed in his mother 's parlor , and in his sisters ' boudoir , while for the last five weeks he had heard at home of little else than the probable tout ensembleof Katy 's wardrobe , bought and made in the country , his mother deciding finally to write to her cousin , Mrs. Harvey , who boarded at the Revere , and have her see to it before Katy left the city . 
Under these circumstances , it was not strange that Wilford did not enter into Katy 's delight , even after she told him how Helen had made every stitch of the dress herself , and that it would on that account be very dear to her . 
This was a favorable time for getting the poplin off his mind , and with a premonitory ahemhe said , `` Yes , it is very nice , no doubt ; but , '' and here he turned to Helen , `` after Mrs. Ryan 's services were declined , my mother determined to have two dresses fitted to sister Bell , who I think is just Katy 's size and figure . 
I have them in my trunk , and , '' turning now to Katy , `` it is my mother 's special request that one of them be worn to-morrow . 
He left the room , while Helen 's face resembled a dark thunder-cloud , whose lightnings shone in her flashing eyes as she looked after him and then back to where Katy stood , bewildered and wondering what was wrong . 
she asked . 
but before Helen could command her voice to explain , Wilford was with them again , bringing the dresses , over which Katy nearly went wild . 
She had never seen anything as elegant as the rich heavy poplin or the soft lustrous silk , while even Helen acknowledged that there was about them a finish which threw Miss Hazelton 's quite in the shade . 
Katy exclaimed ; `` and trimmed so exquisitely ! 
`` I dare say they will , '' Wilford replied , enjoying her appreciation of his mother 's gift . 
and Katy appealed to her sister , who could endure no more , but hid her head among the pillows of the bed and cried . 
Katy understood the whole , and dropping the silk to which she inclined the most , she flew to Helen 's side and whispered to her , `` Do n't , Nellie , I wo n't wear either of them . 
She knew the city silk was handsomer and better suited for Wilford Cameron 's bride than the country plaid , and so she said to Katy , `` I would rather you should wear the one they sent . 
Suppose you try it on , '' and in seeking to gratify her sister , Helen forgot in part her own cruel disappointment , and that her work of days had been for naught . 
The dress fitted well , though Katy pronounced it too tight and too long . 
A few moments , however , accustomed her to the length , and then her mother , Aunt Hannah , and Aunt Betsy , came to see and admire , while Katy proposed going out to Wilford , but Helen kept her back , Aunt Betsy remarking under her breath , that `` she did n't see for the life on her how Catherine could be so free and easy with that man when just the sight of him was enough to take away a body 's breath . '' 
Helen was a Christian girl , and many a time had she prayed in secret that He who rules the deep would keep its waters calm and still while her sister was upon them , and she prayed so now , constantly , burying her face once in her hands , and asking that Katy might come back to them unchanged , if possible , and asking next that God would remove from her heart all bitterness towards the bridegroom , who was to be her brother , and whom , after that short , earnest prayer , she found herself liking better . 
He loved Katy , she was sure , and that was all she cared for , though she did wish he would release her before twelve o'clock on that night , the last she would spend with them for a long , long time . 
But Wilford kept her with him in the parlor , kissing away the tears which flowed so fast when she recalled the prayer said by Uncle Ephraim , with her kneeling by him as she might never kneel again . 
He had called her by her name , and his voice was very sad as he commended her to God , asking that he would `` be with our little Katy wherever she might go , keeping her in all the mewanderingscenes of life , and bringing her at last to his own heavenly home , '' Wilford himself was touched , and though he noticed the deacon 's pronunciation , he did not even smile , and his manner was very respectful , when , after the prayer was over and they were alone a moment , the white-haired deacon felt it incumbent upon him to say a few words concerning Katy . 
`` She 's a young , rattle-headed creature , not much like your own kin , I guess ; but , young man , she is as dear as the apple of our eyes , and I charge you to treat her p591-093 well . 
She has never had a crossways word spoke to her all her life , and do n't you be the first to speak it , nor let your folks browbeat her . '' 
As they were alone , it was easier for Wilford to be humble and conciliatory , and he promised all the old man required , and then went back to Katy , who was going into raptures over the beautiful little watch which Morris had sent over as her bridal gift from him . 
Even Mrs. Cameron herself could have found no fault with this , and Wilford praised it as much as Katy could desire , noticing the inscription , `` Katy , from Cousin Morris , June 10th , 18 -- , '' wishing that after the `` Katy '' had come the name Cameron , and wondering if Morris had any design in omitting it . 
Wilford had not yet presented his father 's gift , but he did so now , and Katy 's tears dropped upon the pale , soft pearls as she whispered , `` I shall like your father . 
Nor had she ; but she would grow to them very soon , while even the family gathering round and sharing in her joy began to realize how great a lady their Katy was to be . 
It was late that night ere anybody slept , if sleep at all they did , which was doubtful , unless it were the bride , who , with Wilford 's kisses warm upon her lips , crept up to bed just as the clock was striking twelve , nor woke until it was again chiming for six , and over her Helen bent , a dark ring about her eyes and her face very white as she whispered , `` Wake , Katy darling , this is your wedding day . '' 
THERE were more than a few lookers-on to see Katy Lennox married , and the church was literally jammed for full three-quarters of an hour before the appointed time . 
Back by the door , where she commanded a full view of the middle aisle , Marian Hazelton sat , her face as white as ashes , and her eyes gleaming strangely wild from beneath the thickly dotted veil she wore over her hat . 
Doubts as to her wisdom in coming there were agitating her mind , but something kept her sitting just as others sat waiting for the bride until the sexton , opening wide the doors , and assuming an added air of consequence , told the anxious spectators that the party had arrived -- Uncle Ephraim and Katy , Wilford and Mrs. Lennox , Dr. Morris and Helen , Aunt Hannah and Aunt Betsy -- that was all , and they came slowly up the aisle , while countless eyes were turned upon them , every woman noticing Katy 's dress sweeping the carpet with so long a trail , and knowing by some queer female instinct that it was city-made , and not the handiwork of Marian Hazelton , panting for breath in that pew near the door , and trying to forget herself by watching Dr. Grant . 
She could not have told what Katy wore ; she would not have sworn that Katy was there , for she saw only two , Wilford and Morris Grant . 
She could have touched the former as he passed her by , and she did breathe the odor of his garments while her hands clasped each other tightly , and then she turned to Morris Grant , growing content with her own pain , so much less than his as he stood before the altar with Wilford Cameron between him and the bride which should have been his . 
`` Now , Ephraim , now ; they 've reached the quirk , '' she whispered , audibly , almost before Katy 's `` I will '' was heard , clear and distinct ; but Ephraim did not need her prompting , and his hand rested lovingly upon Katy 's shoulder as he signified his consent , and then fell back to his place next to Hannah . 
But when Wilford 's voice said , `` I , Wilford , take thee Katy to be my wedded wife , '' there was a slight confusion near the door , and those sitting by said to those in front that some one had fainted . 
Looking round , the audience saw the sexton leading Marian Hazelton out into the open air , where , at her request , he left her , and went back to see the closing of the ceremony which made Katy Lennox a wife . 
Morris 's carriage was at the door , and the newly married pair moved slowly out , Katy smiling upon all , kissing her hand to some and whispering a good-bye to others , her diamonds flashing in the light and her rich silk rustling as she walked , while at her side was Wilford , proudly erect , and holding his head so high as not to see one of the crowd around him , until , arrived at the vestibule , he stopped a moment and was seized by a young man with eurling hair , saucy eyes , and that air of ease and assurance which betokens high breeding and wealth . 
Then it occurred to me that as Silverton was only a few miles distant I would drive over and surprise you , but I am too late for the ceremony , I see , '' and Mark 's eyes rested admiringly upon Katy , whose graceful beauty was fully equal to what he had imagined . 
Very modestly she received his congratulatory greeting , blushing prettily when he called her by the new name she had not heard before , and then , at a motion from Wilford , entered the carriage waiting for her . 
Close behind her came Morris and Helen , the former quite as much astonished at meeting Mark as Wilford had been . 
It was sad enough at the most , and Katy 's eyes were very red , while Wilford was beginning to look chagrined and and impatient , when at last the train swept round the corner and the very last good-bye was said . 
Many of the village people were there to see Katy off , and in the crowd Mark had no means of distinguishing the Barlows from the others , except it were by the fond caresses given to the bride . 
Wilford was just then too much occupied in his efforts to rescue Katy from the crowd of plebeians who had seized upon her to hear his friend 's query , but Helen heard it , and with a cheek which crimsoned with anger , she replied , `` That , sir , is my aunt , Miss Betsy Barlow . '' 
With a toss of her head Helen turned away , forgetting her resentment in the more absorbing thought that Katy was leaving her . 
Oh , if Wilford Cameron had only never come , we should have had Katy now , '' and the sister-love overcame every other feeling , making Helen cry bitterly as they drove back to the farm-house . 
It was a sad task picking up that disordered chamber , bearing so many traces of Katy , and Helen 's heart ached terribly as she hung away the little pink calico dressing-gown in which Katy had looked so prettily , and picked up from the floor the pile of skirts lying just where they had been left the previous night ; but when it came to the little half-worn slippers which had been thrown one here and another there as Katy danced out of them , she could control herself no longer , and stopping in her work sobbed bitterly , `` Oh , Katy , Katy , how can I live without you ! '' 
But tears could not bring Katy back , and knowing this , Helen dried her eyes ere long and joined the family below , who like herself were spiritless and sad . 
It was some little solace to them all that day to follow Katy in her journey , saying , she is at Worcester , or Framingham , or Newtown , and when at noon they sat down to their dinner in the tidy kitchen they said , `` She is in Boston , '' and the saying so made the time which had elapsed since the morning seem interminable . 
He had ministered as usual to his patients that day , listening to their complaints and answering patiently their inquiries ; but amid it all he walked as in a maze , hearing nothing except the words , `` I , Katy , take thee , Wilford , to be my wedded husband , '' and seeing nothing but the airy little figure which stood up on tiptoe for him to kiss its lips at parting . 
he asked , and then Helen broke out afresh , mourning sometimes for Katy , and again denouncing Wilford as proud and heartless . 
`` Positively , Cousin Morris , he acted all the while he was in the church as if he were doing something of which he was ashamed ; and then did you notice how impatient he seemed when the neighbors were shaking hands with Katy at the depot , and bidding her good-bye ? 
He looked as if he thought they had no right to touch her , she was so much their superior , just because she had married him , and he even hurried her away before Aunt Betsy had time to kiss her . 
And yet the people think it such a splendid match for Katy , because he is so rich and generous . 
`` That is wrong , Helen , all wrong , '' and Morris tried to reason with her ; but his arguments this time were not very strong , and he finally said to her , inadvertently , `` If Ican forgive Wilford Cameron for marrying our Katy , you surely ought to do so , for he has hurt methe most . '' 
`` Morris , tell me -- tell me truly -- did you love my sister Katy ? '' 
I didlove your sister Katy , and love her yet , and that is the hardest to bear . '' 
Why did n't you tell her in time ? '' 
and at last she said to him , `` If Katy had known it ! 
Oh , Morris , why did n't you tell her ? 
She never guessed it , never ! 
If she had -- if she had , '' Helen 's breath came chokingly , `` I am very sure -- yes , I know it might have been ! '' 
Katy loved me as her brother , nothing more , I am confident . 
Had she waited till she was older , God only knows what might have been , but now she is gone and our Father will help me to bear , will help us both , if we ask him , as we must . '' 
The secret was safe with her , and by dwelling on what `` might have been '' she forgot to think so much of what was , and so the first days after Katy 's departure were more tolerable than she had thought it possible for them to be . 
At the close of the fourth there came a short note from Katy , who was still in Boston at the Revere , and perfectly happy , she said , going into ecstasies over her husband , the best in the world , and certainly the most generous and indulgent . 
`` Such beautiful things as I am having made , '' she wrote , `` when I already had more than I needed , and so I told him , but he only smiled a queer kind of smile as he said ` Very true ; you do not need them . ' 
Think of little Katy Lennox with a waiting-maid , who jabbers French half the time , for she speaks that language as well as her own , having been abroad with the family once before . 
That is why they sent her to me ; they knew her services would be invaluable in Paris . 
Her name is Esther , and she came the day after we did , and brought me such a beautiful mantilla from Wilford 's mother , and the loveliest dress . 
Still with her ideas of city men she could not at once think favorably of Mark Ray , just for a few complimentary words which might or might not have been in earnest , and she found herself looking forward with nervous dread to the time when he would stop at Linwood , and of course call on her , as he would bring a letter from Katy . 
Very sadly to the inmates of the farm-house rose the morning of the day when Katy was to sail , and as if they could really see the tall masts of the vessel which was to bear her away , the eyes of the whole family were turned often to the eastward with a wistful , anxious gaze , while on their lips and in their hearts were earnest prayers for the safety of that ship and the precious freight it bore . 
But hours , however sad , will wear themselves away , and so the day went on , succeeded by the night , until that too had passed and another day had come , the second of Katy 's ocean life . 
The trunk was full , and over the whole a linen towel was folded , while on the top of that lay a letter in Katy 's hand-writing , directed to Helen , who , sitting down upon the floor , broke the seal and read aloud as follows : `` My Dear Sister Helen : -- I have just come in from a little party given by one of Mrs. Harvey 's friends , and I am sotired , for you know I am not accustomed to such late hours . 
and Helen felt her strength leave her wrists in one sudden throb as the letter dropped from her hand , while she tore off the linen covering and saw for herself that Katy had written truly . 
She could not weep then , but her face was white as marble as she again took up the letter and commenced at the point where she had broken off . 
Somehow she tries to impress me with the idea that Mrs. Wilford Cameronis a very different person from little Katy Lennox , but I can see no difference except that I am a great deal happier and have Wilford all the time . 
Remember little Katy , and if she ever did anything bad , do n't lay it up against her . 
This was Katy 's letter , and it brought a gush of tears from the four women remembered so lovingly in it , the mother and the aunts stealing away to weep in secret , without ever stopping to look at the new dresses sent to them by Wilford Cameron . 
They were very soft , very handsome , especially Helen 's rich golden brown , and as she looked at it she felt a thrill of satisfaction in knowing it was hers , but this quickly passed as she took out one by one the garments she had folded with so much care , wondering when Katy would wear each one and where she would be . 
she exclaimed , and as she just then came upon the little plaid , she laid her head upon the trunk lid , while her tears dropped like rain in among the discarded articles condemned by Wilford Cameron . 
It seemed to her like Katy 's grave , and she was sobbing bitterly , when a step sounded outside the window , and a voice called her name . 
It was Morris , and lifting up her head Helen said passionately , `` Oh , Morris , look ! 
he has sent back all Katy 's clothes , which you bought and I worked so hard to make . 
Oh , Katy , I never fully realized till now how wholly she is lost to us ! '' 
`` Helen , Helen , '' Morris kept saying , trying to stop her , for close behind him was Mark Ray , who heard her distinctly , and glancing in , saw her kneeling before the trunk , her pale face stained with tears , and her dark eyes shining with excitement . 
You can tell her all I had to say ; '' but Helen heard him , and mastering her agitation she said to him , `` Please , Mr. Ray , do n't go -- not yet at least , not till I have asked you of Katy . 
Did you see her off ? 
Has she gone ? '' 
I hope you will like him for mysake as well as Katy 's . '' 
During the few days passed in Boston he had become more than half in love with Katy himself , almost envying his friend the pretty little creature he had won . 
She was very beautiful and very fascinating in her simplicity , but there was something in Helen 's face more attractive than mere beauty , and Mark said to Morris as they walked along , `` Miss Lennox is not much like her sister . '' 
`` Not much , no ; but Helen is a splendid girl -- more strength of character , perhaps , than Katy , who is younger than her years even . 
She has always been p591-107 petted from babyhood ; it will take time or some great sorrow to show what she really is . '' 
When told who Mark was , and that he brought news of Katy , he greeted him cordially , and sitting down upon his fence listened to all Mark had to say . 
Between the old and young man there seemed at once a mutual liking , the former saying to himself as Mark went on , and he resumed his work , `` I most wish it was this chap with Katy on the sea . 
IF Katy 's letters , written , one on board the steamer and another from London , were to be trusted , she was as nearly perfectly happy as a young bride well can be , and the people at the farm-house felt themselves more and more kindly disposed towards Wilford Cameron with each letter received . 
They were going soon into the northern part of England , and from thence into Scotland , Katy wrote from London , and two weeks after found them comfortably settled at the inn at Alnwick , near to Alnwick Castle . 
Wilford had seemed very anxious to get there , leaving London before Katy was quite ready , and hurrying across the country until Alnwick was reached . 
An entrance into Alnwick Castle was easily obtained , and Katy felt that all her girlish dreams of grandeur and magnificence were more than relized here in this home of the Percys , where ancient and modern styles of architecture and furnishing were so blended together . 
She would never tire of that place , she thought , but Wilford 's taste led him elsewhere , and he took more delight in wandering around St. Mary 's church , which stood upon a hill commanding a view of the castle and of the surrounding country for miles away . 
Here Katy also came , rambling with him through the village grave-yard where slept the dust of centuries , the grey , mossy tomb-stones bearing date backward for more than a hundred years , their quaint inscriptions both puzzling and amusing Katy , who studied them by the hour . 
One quiet summer morning , however , when the heat was unusually great , she felt too listless to wander about , and so sat upon the grass , listening to the birds as they sang above her head , while Wilford , at some distance from her , stood leaning against a tree and thinking sad , regretful thoughts , as his eye rested upon the rough headstone at his feet . 
`` Genevra Lambert , aged 22 , '' was the lettering upon it , and as he read it a feeling of reproach was in his heart , while he said , `` I hope I am not glad to know that she is dead . '' 
He had come to Alnwick for the sole purpose of finding that humble grave -- of assuring himself that after life 's fitful fever , Genevra Lambert slept quietly , forgetful of the wrong once done to her by him . 
It is true he had not doubted her death before , but as seeing was believing , so now he felt sure of it , and plucking from the turf above her a little flower growing there , he went back to Katy and sitting down beside her with his arm around her waist , tried to devise some way of telling her what he had promised himself he would tell her there in that very yard , where Genevra was buried . 
Katy was so happy with him , trusting his love so fully that he dared not lift the veil and read to her that page hinted at once in Silverton , when they sat beneath the butternut tree , with the fresh young grass springing around them . 
Then she was not his wife , and the fear that she would not be if he told her all had kept him silent , but now she was his alone ; nothing could undo that , and there , in the shadow of the grey old church through whose aisles Genevra had been borne out to where the rude headstone was gleaming in the English sunlight , it seemed meet that he should tell the sad story . 
And Katy would have forgiven him then , for not a shadow of regret had darkened her life since it was linked with his , and in her perfect love she could have pardoned much . 
It was not needful , he made himself believe -- not necessary for her ever to know that once he met a maiden called Genevra , almost as beautiful as she , but never so beloved . 
No , never.Wilford said that truly , when that night he bent over his sleeping Katy , comparing her face with Genevra 's , and his love for her with his love for Genevra . 
Thus far nothing had arisen to mar the happiness of his first weeks of married life , except the letters from Silverton , over which Katy always cried , until he sometimes wished that the family could not write . 
But they could and they did ; even Aunt Betsy inclosed in Helen 's letter a note , wonderful both in orthography and composition , and concluding with the remark that `` she would be glad when Catherine returned and was settled in a home of her own , as she would then have a new place to visit . '' 
There was a dark frown on Wilford 's face , and for a moment he felt tempted to withhold the note from Katy , but this he could not do then , so he gave it into her hands , watching her as with burning cheeks , she read it through , and asking her at its close why she looked so red . 
`` Oh , Wilford , '' and she crept closely to him , `` Aunt Betsy spells so queerly , that I was wishing you would not always open my letters first . 
It was the only time Katy had ventured to question a single act of his , submitting without a word to whatever was his will . 
Wilford knew that his father would never have presumed to break a seal belonging to his mother , but he had broken Katy 's , and he should continue breaking them , so he answered , laughingly , `` Why , yes , I guess they do . 
`` No secrets , '' Katy answered , `` only I did not want you to see Aunt Betsy 's letter , that 's all . '' 
`` I did not marry Aunt Betsy -- I married you , '' was Wilford 's reply , which meant far more than Katy guessed . 
With three thousand miles between him and his wife 's relatives , Wilford could endure to think of them ; but whenever letters came to Katy bearing the Silverton postmark , he was conscious of a far different sensation from what he experienced when the postmark was New York and the handwriting that of his own family . 
But not in any way did this feeling manifest itself to Katy , who , as she always wrote to Helen , was very , very happy , and never more so , perhaps , than while they were at Alnwick , where , as if he had something for which to atone , he was unusually kind and indulgent , caressing her with unwonted tenderness , and making her ask him once if he loved her a great deal more now than when they were first married . 
`` Yes , darling , a great deal more , '' was Wilford 's answer , as he kissed her upturned face , and then went for the last time to Genevra 's grave ; for on the morrow they were to leave the neighborhood of Alnwick for the heather blooms of Scotland . 
He was in no haste to return to America ; he would rather stay where he could have Katy all to himself , away from her family and his own . 
`` We might have stayed longer in Europe , '' Katy said , feeling a little chill of disappointment -- not that her father-in-law was better , but at being called home for nothing , when her life abroad was so happy and free from care . 
He , too , though glad of his father 's improvement , was sorry to have been recalled for nothing to a country which brought his old life back again , with all its forms and ceremonies , and revived his dread lest Katy should not acquit herself as was becoming Mrs. Wilford Cameron . 
Katy was Katy still , in spite of London , Paris , or Rome . 
To be sure there was about her a little more maturity and self-assurance , but in all essential points she was the same : and Wilford winced as he thought how the free , impulsive manner which , among the Scottish hills , where there was no one to criticise , had been so charming to him , would shock his lady mother and sister Juno . 
And this it was which made him moody and silent , replying hastily to Katy when she said to him , `` Please , Wilford , telegraph to Helen to be with mother at the West depot when we pass there to-morrow . 
She had come up to him now , and was standing behind him , with her hands upon his shoulder ; so she did not see the expression of his face as he answered quickly , `` Yes , yes . '' 
A moment after he quitted the room , and it was then that Katy , standing before the window , charged the day with what was strictly Wilford 's fault . 
Returning at last to her chair she went off into a reverie as to the new home to which she was going and the new friends she was to meet , wondering what they would think of her , and if they would like her . 
Once she had said to Wilford , `` Which of your sisters shall I like best ? '' 
And Wilford had answered her by asking , `` Which do you like best , booksor going to parties in full dress ? '' 
`` Oh , parties and dress , '' Katy had said , and Wilford had then rejoined , `` You will like Juno best , for she is all fashion and gayety , while Blue-Bell prefers her books and the quiet of her own room . '' 
Katy felt afraid of Bell , and in fact , now that they were so near , she felt afraid of them all , notwithstanding Esther 's assurances that they could not help loving her . 
More accustomed to Wilford 's moods than Katy , she saw that something was the matter , and it prompted her to unusual attentions , stirring the fire into a cheerful blaze and bringing a stool for Katy , who , in blissful ignorance of her husband 's real feelings , sat waiting his return from the telegraph office whither she supposed he had gone , and building pleasant pictures of to-morrow 's meeting with her mother and Helen , and possibly Dr. Morris , if not Uncle Ephraim himself . 
So absorbed was she in her reverie as not to hear Wilford 's step as he came in , but when he stood behind her and took her head playfully between his hands , she started up , feeling that the weather had changed ; it was not as cold and dreary in Boston as she imagined , and laying her head on Wilford 's shoulder , she said , `` You went out to telegraph , did n't you ? '' 
He had gone out with the intention of telegraphing as she desired , but in the hall below he had met with an old acquaintance who talked with him so long that he entirely forgot his errand until Katy recalled it to his mind , making him feel very uncomfortable as he frankly told her of his forgetfulness . 
Katy knew it was settled , and choking back the tears , she tried to listen , while Wilford , having fairly broken the ice with regard to his family , told her how anxious he was that she should make a good first impression upon his mother . 
Did Katy remember that Mrs. Morey whom they met at Paris , and could she not throw a little of her airinto her manner , that is , could she not drop her girlishness when in the presence of others and be a little more dignified ? 
When alone with him he liked to have her just what she was , a loving , affectionate little wife , but the world looked on such things differently . 
Would Katy try ? 
Wilford when he commenced had no definite idea as to what he should say , and without meaning it he made Katy moan piteously . 
She was crying so hard that Wilford , while mentally calling himself a fool and a brute , could only try to comfort her , telling her she need not be anything but what she was -- that his mother and sisters would love her just as he did -- and that daily association with them would teach her all that was necessary . 
Katy 's tears were stopped at last ; but the frightened , anxious look did not leave her face , even though Wilford tried his best to divert her mind . 
A nervous terror of her new relations had gained possession of her heart , and nearly the entire night she lay awake , pondering in her mind what Wilford had said , and thinking how terrible it would be if he should be disappointed in her after all . 
Katy thought , working her fingers nervously ; but the express train did not pause there , and it went so swiftly by the depot that Katy could hardly distinguish who was standing there , whether friend or stranger . 
But when at last they came to West Silverton , and the long train slowly stopped , the first object she saw was Dr. Morris , driving down from the village . 
He had supposed her far away beneath Italian skies , for at the farm-house no intelligence had been received of her intended return , and in much surprise he reined up to the rear door , and throwing his lines to a boy , went forward to where Katy stood , her face glowing with delight as she flew into his arms , wholly forgetful of the last night 's lecture on dignity , and also forgetful of Wilford , standing close beside her . 
He had not tried to hold her back when , at the sight of Morris , she sprang away from him ; but he followed after , biting his lip , and wishing she had a little more discretion . 
Surely it was not necessary to half strangle Dr. Grant as she was doing , kissing his hand after she had kissed his face a full half dozen times , and all the people looking on . 
But Katy did not care for people . 
She only knew that Morris was there -- the Morris whom , in her great happiness abroad , she had perhaps slighted by not writing directly to him but once . 
In Wilford 's sheltering care she had not felt the need of this good cousin , as she used to do ; but she was so glad to see him , wondering why he looked so thin and sad . 
she asked , with a pitying look , which made him shiver as he answered , `` No , not sick , though tired , perhaps , as I have at present an unusual amount of work to do . '' 
But that was not the cause of his thin face , which others than Katy remarked . 
Helen 's words , `` It might have been , '' spoken to him on the night of Katy 's bridal , had never left his mind , much as he had tried to dislodge them . 
He could overcome his love so that it should not be a sin , but no other could ever fill the place where Katy had been ; and as he looked along the road through life he felt that he must travel it alone . 
Truly , if Katy were not yet passing through the fire , he was , and it had left its mark upon him , purifying as it burned , and bringing his every act into closer submission to his God . 
He could think of Katy now without a sin , but he was not thinking of her when she came so unexpectedly upon him , and for an instant she almost bore his breath away in her vehement joy . 
Quick to note a change in those he knew , he saw that her form was not quite so full , nor her cheeks so round ; but she was weary with the voyage , and knowing how sea-sickness will wear upon one 's strength , Morris imputed it wholly to that , and believed she was , as she professed to be , perfectly happy . 
`` Come , Katy , we must go now , '' Wilford said , as the bell rang its first alarm , and the passengers , some with sandwiches and some with fried cakes in their hands , ran back to find their seats . 
Oh , how I want to go home with you , Morris , '' Katy exclaimed , again throwing her arms around the doctor 's neck as she bade him good bye , and sent fresh messages of love to the friends at home , who , had they known she was to be there at that time , would have walked the entire distance for the sake of looking once more into her dear face . 
`` I intended to have brought them heaps of things , '' she said , `` but we came home so suddenly I had no time . 
Tell her it is real , '' and the impulsive creature drew from her finger a small diamond set in black enamel , which Wilford had bought in Paris . 
`` She did not need it ; she had two more , and she was sure Wilford would not mind , '' she said , turning to him for his approbation . 
In her excitement Katy did not observe it , but Morris did , and he at first declined taking it , saying Helen had no use for it , and would be better pleased with something not half as valuable . 
Katy , however , insisted , appealing to Wilford , who , ashamed of his first emotion , now seemed quite as anxious as Katy herself , until Morris placed the ring in his purse , and then bade Katy hasten p591-117 or she would certainly be left . 
One more wave of the hand , one more kiss thrown from the window , and the train moved on , Katy feeling like a different creature for having seen some one from home . 
`` I am so glad I saw him -- so glad I sent the ring , for now they will know I am the same Katy Lennox , and I think Helen sometimes feared I might get proud with you , '' she said , while Wilford pulled her rich fur around her , smiling to see how bright and pretty she was looking since that meeting with Dr. Grant . 
`` It was better than medicine , '' Katy said , when beyond Springfield he referred to it a second time , and leaning her head upon his shoulder she fell into a refreshing sleep , from which she did not waken until New York was reached , and Wilford , lifting her gently up , whispered to her , `` Come , darling , we are home at last . '' 
`` Katy should not be troubled the first day , '' he said ; `` it was bad enough for her to meet them all ; they could ask Mark if they chose , but no one else . '' 
And so only Mark Ray was invited to the dinner , gotten up as elaborately as if a princess had been expected instead of little Katy , trembling in every joint when , about four P. M. , Wilford awoke her at the depot and whispered , `` Come , darling , we are home at last . '' 
he asked , wrapping her cloak around her , and almost lifting her from the car . 
I guess -- I 'm cold , '' and Katy drew a long breath as she thought of Silverton and the farm-house , wishing that she was going into its low-walled kitchen , instead of the handsome carriage , where the cushions were so soft and yielding , and the whole effect so grand . 
she kept repeating to herself as she drove along the streets , where they were beginning to light the street lamps , for the December day was dark and cloudy . 
It seemed so like a dream , that she , who once had picked huckleberries on the Silverton hills , and bound coarse heavy shoes to buy herself a pink gingham dress , should now be riding in her carriage toward the home which she knew was magnificent ; and Katy 's tears fell like rain as , nestling close to Wilford , who asked what was the matter , she whispered , `` I can hardly believe that it is I -- it is so unreal . '' 
`` Please do n't cry , '' Wilford rejoined , brushing her tears away . 
With a great effort Katy kept her tears back , and was very calm when they reached the brown-stone front , far enough up town to save it from the slightest approach to plebeianism . 
In the hall the chandelier was burning , and as the carriage stopped a flame of light seemed suddenly to burst from every window as the gas heads were turned up , so that Katy caught glimpses of rich silken curtains and costly lace as she went up the steps , clinging to Wilford and looking ruefully around for Esther , who had disappeared through the basement door . 
Another moment and they stood within the marbled hall , Katy conscious of nothing definite -- nothing but a vague atmosphere of refined elegance , and that a richly-dressed lady came out to meet them , kissing Wilford quietly and calling him her son ; that the same lady turned to her saying kindly , `` And this is my new daughter ? '' 
Then Katy came to life , and did that , at the very thought of which she shuddered when a few months ' experience had taught her the temerity of the act -- she wound her arms impulsively around Mrs. Cameron 's neck , rumpling her point lace collar , and sadly displacing the coiffure of the astonished lady , who had seldom received so genuine a greeting as that which Katy gave her , kissing her lips and whispering softly , `` I love you now , because you are Wilford 's mother , but by and by because you are mine . 
It was not what he had hoped , nor what his mother had expected , for she was unaccustomed to such demonstrations ; but under the circumstances Katy could not have done better . 
There was a tender spot in Mrs. Cameron 's heart , and Katy touched it , making her feel a throb of affection for the childish creature suing for her love . 
`` Yes , darling , I love you now , '' she said , removing Katy 's clinging arms and taking care that they should not enfold her a second time . 
`` You are tired and cold , '' she continued ; `` and had better go at once to your rooms . 
There is plenty of time to dress for dinner , '' and with a wave of her hand she dismissed Katy up the stairs , noticing as she went the exquisite softness of her fur cloak ; but thinking it too heavy a garment for her slight figure , and noticing , too , the graceful ankle and foot which the little high-heeled gaiter showed to good advantage . 
`` I did not see her face distinctly , but she has a well-turned instep and walks easily , '' was the report she carried to her daughters , who , in their own room over Katy 's , were dressing for dinner . 
`` She will undoubtedly make a good dancer , then , unless , like Dr. Grant , she is too blue for that , '' Juno said , while Bell shrugged her shoulders , congratulating herself that she had a mind above such frivolous matters as dancing and well-turned insteps , and wondering if Katy cared in the least for books . 
`` I wish we could say the same of you , '' Juno answered , playfully pulling his moustache ; `` but upon my word , Will , you are fast setting down into an oldish married man , even turning grey , '' and she ran her fingers through his dark hair , where there was now and then a thread of silver . 
she continued , looking him archly in the face . 
Wilford was rather proud of his good looks , and during his sojourn abroad , Katy had not helped him any in overcoming this weakness , but on the contrary had fed his vanity by constant flattery . 
And still he was himself conscious of not looking quite as well as usual just now , for the sea voyage had tired him as well as Katy , but he did not care to be told of it , and Juno 's ill-timed remarks roused him at once , particularly as they reflected somewhat on Katy . 
Katy is more than I expected her to be . '' 
Juno elevated her eyebrows slightly , but made no direct reply , while Bell began to ask about Paris and the places he had visited . 
Meanwhile Katy had been ushered into her room , which was directly over the library , and separated from Mrs. Cameron 's only by a range of closets and presses , a portion of which were to be appropriated to her own use . 
To Katy it was perfect , and her first exclamation was one of delight . 
she cried , skipping across the soft carpet to the warm fire blazing in the grate . 
But happy as she was , Katy could not help feeling tired , and she sank into one of the luxurious easy-chairs , wishing she could stay there all the evening instead of going down to that formidable dinner with her new relations . 
How she dreaded it , especially when she remembered that Mrs. Cameron had said there would be plenty of time to dress -- a thing which Katy hated , the process was so tiresome , particularly to-night . 
Surely her handsome traveling dress , made in Paris , was good enough , and she was about settling in her own mind to venture upon wearing it , when Esther demolished her castle at once . 
There would be no end to the scolding I should get for suffering it , '' and she began good-naturedly to remove her mistress 's collar and pin , while Katy , standing up , sighed as she said , `` I wish I was in Silverton to-night . 
and she began to shiver again . 
Fortunately for Katy , Esther had been in the family long enough to know just what they regarded proper , as by this means the dress selected was sure to please . 
It was very becoming to Katy , and having been made in Paris was not open to criticism . 
But when Katy explained , she answered pleasantly , `` Never mind , it is a fault which will mend every day , only it makes you look like a child . '' 
`` I am eighteen and a half , '' Katy said , feeling a lump rising in her throat , for she guessed that her mother-in-law was not quite pleased with her hair . 
For herself , she liked it , it was so easy to brush and fix . 
She should go wild if she had to submit to all Esther had told her of hair-dressing and what it involved . 
Mrs. Cameron had asked if she would not like to see Mr. Cameron , the elder , before going down to dinner , and Katy had answered that she would ; so as soon as Esther had smoothed a refractory fold and brought her handkerchief , she followed to the room where Wilford 's father was sitting . 
He might not have felt complimented could he have known that something in his appearance reminded Katy of Uncle Ephraim . 
He was not nearly as old or as tall , nor was his hair as white , but the resemblance , if there were any , lay in the smile with which he greeted Katy , calling her his youngest child , and drawing her closely to him . 
It was remarked of Mr. Cameron that since their babyhood he had never kissed one of his own children ; but when Katy , who looked upon such a salutation as a matter of course , put up her rosy lips , making the first advance , he kissed her twice . 
`` Yes , yes ; God bless you , my child , '' and Mr. Cameron 's voice shook as he said it , for neither Bell nor Juno were wont to address him just as Katy did -- Katy , standing close to him , with her hand upon his shoulder and her kiss fresh upon his lips . 
She had already crept a long way into his heart , and he took her hand from his shoulder and holding it between his own , said to her . 
I am not so young , '' Katy answered , her eyes filling with tears as she began to wish back the thick curls Helen cut away when the fever was at its height . 
`` It is time to go down if Mrs. Cameron sees the young ladies before dinner , '' she said , a little stiffly ; whereupon her better half startled Katy with the exclamation , `` Mrs. Cameron ! 
wife , call her Katy , and do n't go into any nonsense of that kind . '' 
The lady reddened , but said nothing until she reached the hall , when she whispered to Katy , apologetically , `` Do n't mind it . 
Katy had been a little frightened at the outburst , but she liked Mr. Cameron notwithstanding , and her heart was lighter as she went down to the library , where Wilford met her at the door , and taking her on his arm led her in to his sisters , holding her back as he presented her , lest she should assault them as she had his mother . 
But Katy felt no desire to hug the tall , queenly girl whom Wilford introduced as Juno , and whose black eyes seemed to read her through as she offered her hand and very daintily kissed her forehead , murmuring something about a welcome to New York . 
Bell came next , broad-faced , plainer-looking Bell , who yet had many pretentions to beauty , but whose manner , if possible , was frostier , cooler than her sister 's . 
Of the two Katy liked Juno best , for there was about her a flash and sparkle very fascinating to one who had never seen anything of the kind , and did not know that much of this vivacity was the result of patient study and practice . 
Katy would have known they were high bred , as the world defines high breeding , and something in ther manner reminded her of the ladies she had seen abroad , ladies in whose veins lordly blood was flowing . 
She could not help feeling uncomfortable in their presence , especially as she felt that Juno 's black eyes were on her constantly . 
Not that she could ever meet them looking at her , for they darted away the instant hers were raised , but she knew just when they returned to her again , and how closely they were scanning her . 
Let her sit down , '' Bell said , herself wheeling the easy-chair nearer to the fire , while Wilford placed Katy in it ; then , thinking she would get on better if he were not there , he left the room , and Katy was alone with her new sisters . 
Juno had examined her dress and found no fault with it , simply because it was Parisian make ; while Bell had examined her head , deciding that there might be something in it , though she doubted it , but that at all events short hair was very becoming to it , showing all its fine proportions , and half deciding to have her own locks cut away . 
Juno had a similar thought , wondering if it were the Paris fashion , and if she would look as young in proportion as Katy did were her hair worn on her neck . 
With their brother 's departure the tongues of both the girls were loosened , and standing near to Katy they began to question her of what she had seen , Juno asking if she did not hate to leave Italy , and did not wish herself back again . 
Wholly truthful , Katy answered , `` Oh , yes , I would rather be there than home . '' 
`` Complimentary to us , very , '' Bell murmured audibly in French , blushing as Katy 's eyes were lifted quickly to hers , and she knew she was understood . 
If there was anything which Katy liked more than another in the way of study , it was French . 
She had excelled in it at Canandaigua , and while abroad had taken great pains to acquire a pure pronunciation , so that she spoke it with a good deal of fluency , and readily comprehended Bell . 
`` I did not mean to be rude , '' she said , earnestly . 
`` Certainly not ; you are an honest little puss , '' Bell replied , placing her hand caressingly upon the curly head laying back so wearily on the chair . 
was Juno 's mental comment , while Bell 's was , `` I like the child , '' as she continued to smooth the golden curls and wind them round her finger , wondering if Katy had a taste for metaphysics , that being the last branch of science which she had taken up . 
`` I suppose you find Will a pattern husband , '' Juno said after a moment 's pause , and Katy replied , `` There never could be a better , I am sure , and I have been very happy . '' 
was Juno 's next question , to which Katy answered truthfully , `` Never . '' 
`` Yes , just as I please , '' Katy replied , while Juno continued , `` He must have changed greatly then from what he used to be ; but marriage has probably improved him . 
Anxious that Wilford should appear well in every light , Katy replied at random , `` Yes , if he has any . '' 
and Katy looked up inquiringly , while Juno , with a little sarcastic laugh , continued : `` Oh , he has not told you then . 
I do not mean that he does not love you , '' she added , as she saw how white Katy grew . 
I do not really believe he cared though , for Sybil was too much of a flirt to suit his jealous lordship , and I will do him the justice to say that however many fancies he may have had , he likes you the best of all ; '' and this Juno felt constrained to say because of the look in Katy 's face , which warned her that in her thoughtlessness she had gone too far and pierced the young wife 's heart with a pang as cruel as it was unnecessary . 
Bell had tried to stop her , but she had rattled on until now it was too late , and she could not recall her words , however much she might wish to do so . 
`` Do n't tell Will , '' she was about to say , when Will himself appeared , to take Katy out to dinner . 
Very beautiful and sad were the blue eyes which looked up at him so wistfully , and nothing but the remembrance of Juno 's words , `` He likes you best of all '' kept Katy from crying outright , when he took her hand , and asked if she was tired . 
`` Let us try what dinner will do for you , '' he said , and in silence Katy went with him to the dining-room , where the glare and the ceremony bewildered her , bringing a homesick feeling as she thought of Silverton , and the plain tea-table , graced with the mulberry set instead of the costly china before her . 
Never had Katy felt so embarrassed as she did when seated for the first time at dinner in her husband 's home , with all those criticising eyes upon her . 
She had been very hungry , but her appetite was gone and she almost loathed the rich food offered her , feeling so glad when the dinner was ended , and Wilford took her to the parlor , where she found Mark Ray waiting for her . 
He had been obliged to decline Mrs. Cameron 's invitation to dinner , but had come as early as possible after it , and Katy was delighted to see him , for she remembered how he had helped her during that week of gaiety in Boston , when society was so new to her . 
As he had been then , so he was now , and his friendly manner put Katy as much at her ease as it was possible for her to be in the presence of Wilford 's mother and sisters . 
You know I called there , '' Mark said to Katy ; but before she could reply , a pair of black eyes shot a keen glance at luckless Mark , and Juno 's sharp voice said quickly , `` I did not know you had the honor of Miss Lennox 's acquaintance . '' 
He had kept his call at Silverton to himself , as he did not care to be questioned about Katy 's family ; and now , when it accidentally came out , he tried to make some evasive reply , pretending that he had spoken of it , and Juno had forgotten . 
Wisely changing the conversation , Mark asked Katy to play , and as she seldom refused , she went at once to the piano , astonishing both Mrs. Cameron and her daughters with the brilliancy of her performance . 
`` When I was ten , '' Katy answered . 
Katy knew that Helen did not , and she answered frankly , `` Morris thinks she does not . 
Then feeling that she must in some way make amends for Helen , she added , `` But she knows a great deal more than I do about books.Helen is very smart . '' 
There was a smile on every lip at this ingenuous remark , but only Mark and Bell liked Katy the better for it . 
Wilford did not care to have her talking of her friends , and he kept her at the piano , until she said her fingers were tired and begged leave to stop . 
It was late ere Mark bade them good night ; so late that Katy began to wonder if he would never go , yawning once so perceptibly that Wilford gave her a reproving glance , which sent the hot blood to her face and drove from her every feeling of drowsiness . 
Even after he had gone the family were in no haste to retire , but sat chatting with Wilford until the city clock struck twelve and Katy was nodding in her chair . 
`` Poor child , she is very tired , '' Wilford said , apologetically , gently waking Katy , who begged them to excuse her , and followed her husband to her room , where she was free to ask him what she must ask before she could ever be quite as happy as she had been before . 
Going up to the chair where Wilford was sitting before the fire , and standing partly behind him , she said timidly , `` Will you answer me one thing truly ? '' 
Alone with Katy , Wilford felt all his old tenderness returning , and drawing her into his lap he asked her what it was she wished to know . 
Katy could feel how Wilford started , as he said , `` What put that idea into your head ? 
`` Juno , '' Katy answered . 
and Katy 's lips quivered in a grieved kind of way as she put the question . 
Katy asked again . 
At the mention of Sybil Grey , Wilford looked relieved , and answered her at once . 
Do n't sigh so wearily , '' he continued , as Katy drew a gasping breath . 
Katy asked , beginning to feel alarmed at the very thought of Sybil Grey , with all her polish and manner . 
`` Yes , '' and Katy 's head drooped upon his shoulder . 
She was satisfied with regard to Sybil Grandon , only hoping she would not have to meet her when she came home . 
Katy answered that she was , but perfect confidence in her husband 's affection had been terribly shaken , and Katy 's heart was too full to sleep even after she had retired . 
If we were not , we should thaw out , when Katy leans on us so affectionately and looks up at us so wistfully , as if pleading for our love . 
After all , it is a query in my mind whether it is not better to be like Katy than like Sybil Grandon , about whom Juno was mean enough to tell her the first day of her arrival . 
He was better satisfied with Katy in Europe , where he was not known , than he is here , where he sees her with other people 's eyes . 
One of his weaknesses is a too great reverence for the world 's opinion , as held and expounded by our very fashionable mother , and as in a quiet kind of way she has arrayed herself against poor Katy , while Juno is more open in her acts and sayings , I predict that it will not be many months before he comes to the conclusion that he has made a msalliance , a thing of which no Cameron was ever guilty . 
I wonder if there is any truth in the rumor that Mrs. Gen. Reynolds once taught a district school , and if she did , how much would that detract from the merits of her son , Lieutenant Bob . 
Let me go back to Katy , to whom Mrs. Gen. Reynolds took at once , laughing merrily at her navespeeches , as she called them -- speeches which made Will turn black in the face , they betrayed so much of rustic life and breeding . 
I fancy that he has given Katy a few hints , and that she is beginning to be afraid of him , for she watches him constantly when she is talking , and she does not now slip her hand into his as she used to when guests are leaving and she stands at his side ; neither is she so demonstrative when he comes up from the office at night , and there is a look upon her face which was not there when she came . 
Will 's forehead knit itself together at first , and I half hoped he would veto the whole proceeding , but after a moment he replied , `` No , provided Katy is willing . 
Her feelings must not be hurt . '' 
`` Katy is a dear little creature , and we all love her very much , but that does not blind us to her deficiencies , and as we are anxious that she should fill that place in society which Mrs. Wilford Cameron ought to fill , it seems necessary to tone her down a little before her first appearance at a party . '' 
Katy has a fast friend in him . 
I wonder if Katy is really happy with us . 
She says she is , and is evidently delighted with New York life , clapping her hands when the invitation to Mrs. Reynolds 's party was received , and running with it to Wilford as soon as he came home . 
It is her first big party , she says , she having never attended any except that little sociable in Boston , and those insipid school-girl affairs at the seminary . 
I may be conceited -- Juno thinks I am -- but really and truly , Bell Cameron 's private opinion of herself is that at heart she is better than the rest of her family , and so I pity this little sister of ours , while at the same time I am exceedingly anxious to be present whenever Juno takes her in hand , for I like to see the fun . 
Were she at all bookish , I should avow myself her champion , and openly defend her ; but she is not , and so I give her p591-133 into the hands of the Philistines , hoping they will , at least , spare her hair , and not worry her life out on that head . 
It is very becoming to her , and several young ladies have whispered their intention of trying its effect upon themselves , so that Katy may yet be a leader of the fashion . 
SUCH fun as it was to see mother and Juno training Katy , showing her how to enter the parlor , how to arrange her dress , how to carry her hands and feet , and how to sit in a chair -- Juno going through with the performance first , and then requiring Katy to imitate her . 
Had I been Katy I should have rebelled , but she is far too sweet-tempered and anxious to please , while I suspect that fear of my lord Wilford had something to do with it , for when the drill was over , she asked so earnestly if we thought he would be ashamed of her , and there were tears in her great blue eyes as she said it . 
This time there were open doors , but so absorbed were mother and Juno as not to hear the bell , and just as Juno was saying , `` Now imagine me Mrs. Gen. Reynolds , to whom you are being presented , '' while Katy was bowing almost to the floor , who should appear but Mark Ray , stumbling square upon that ludicrous rehearsal , and , of course , bringing it to an end . 
No explanation was made , nor was any needed , for Mark 's face showed that he understood it , and it was as much as he could do to keep from roaring with merriment ; I am sure he pitied Katy , for his manner towards her was very affectionate and kind , and when she left the room he complimented her highly , repeating many things he had heard in her praise from those who had seen her both in the street and here at home . 
Juno 's face was like a thunder-cloud , for she is as much in love with Mark Ray as she was once with Dr. Grant , and is even jealous of his praise of Katy . 
I prefer to stay at home and finish that article entitled , `` Women of the Present Century , '' suggested to my mind by my sister Katy , who stands for the picture I am drawing of a pretty woman , with more heart than brains , contrasting her with such an one as Juno , her opposite . 
-- The last time I wrote in my journal was just before the party , which is over now , the long talked of affair at which Katy was the reigning belle . 
I do n't know howit happened , but happen it did , and Juno 's glory faded before that of her rival , whose ringing laugh frequently penetrated to every room , and made more than one look up in some surprise . 
But when Mrs. Humphreys said , `` It 's that charming little Mrs. Cameron , the prettiest creature I ever saw , her laugh is so refreshing and genuine , '' the point was settled , and Katy was free to laugh as loudly as she pleased . 
She did look beautifully , in lace and pearls , with her short hair curling in her neck . 
She would not allow us to put so much as a bud in her hair , showing , in this respect , a willfulness we never expected ; but as she was perfectly irresistible , we suffered her to have her way , and when she was dressed , sent her in to father , who had asked to see her . 
Then straight into his lap climbed Katy , father ` slap , where none of us ever sat , I am sure , and began to coax him to go , telling him she should appear better if he were there , and that she should need him when Wilford left her , as of course he must a part of the time . 
But Katy did not need him after the people began to understand that Mrs. Wilford Cameron was the rage . 
He left me at last to dance with Katy , who makes up in grace and airiness what she lacks in knowledge . 
Once upon the floor she did not lack for partners , but I verily believe danced every set , growing prettier and fairer as she danced , for hers is a complexion which does not get red and blowsy with exercise . 
Mark Ray was there too , and I saw him smile comically when Katy met the people with that bow she was making at the time he came so suddenly upon us . 
Mark is a good fellow , and I really think we have him to thank in a measure for Katy 's successful dbut . 
He was the first to take her from Wilford , walking with her up and down the hall by way of reassuring her , and once as they passed me I heard her say , `` I feel so timid here -- so much afraid of doing something wrong -- something countrified . '' 
After that Katy brightened wonderfully . 
The stiffness which at first was perceptible passed off , and she was Katy Lennox , queening it over all the city belles , drawing after her a host of gentlemen , and between the sets holding a miniature court at one end of the room , where the more desirable of the guests crowded around , flattering her until her little head ought to have been turned if it was not . 
To do her justice she bore her honors well , and when we were in the carriage and father complimented her upon her success , she only said , `` If I pleased you all I am glad . '' 
So many calls as we had the next day , and so many invitations as there are now on our table for Mrs. Wilford Cameron , while our opera box between the scenes is packed with beaux , until one would suppose Wilford might be jealous ; but Katy takes it so quietly and modestly , seeming only gratified for his sake , that I really believes he enjoys it more than she does . 
At all events he persists in her going even when she would rather stay at home , so if she is spoiled the fault will rest with him . 
-- Poor Katy ! 
Dissipation is beginning to wear upon her , for she is not accustomed to our late hours , and sometimes falls asleep while Esther is dressing her . 
Somehow she does not believe that people are as delighted as they pretend , and so she keeps training and tormenting her until I do not wonder that Katy sometimes hates to go out , lest she shall unconsciously be guilty of an impropriety . 
I pitied her last night when , after she was ready for the opera , she came into my room where I was indulging in the luxury of a loose dressing gown , with my feet on the sofa . 
At first I think she liked Juno best , but latterly she has taken to me , and now sitting down before the fire into which her blue eyes looked with a steady stare , she said , `` I wish I might stay here with you to-night . 
I did at first when it was new , but now it seems insipid to see them make believe , while the theatre is worse yet , '' and she gave a weary yawn . 
In less than three months she had exhausted fashionable life , and I looked at her in astonishment , asking what would please her if the opera did not . 
What would she like ? 
Turning her eyes full upon me , she exclaimed , `` I do like it some , I suppose , only I get so tired . 
Sixty-one , '' she continued ; `` then I may safely say that in eighty days I shall see mother , and all the dear old places . 
Just then Will called to say the carriage was waiting , and Katy was driven away , while I sat thinking of her and the devoted love with which she clings to her home and friends , wondering if it were the kindest thing which could have been done , transplanting her to our atmosphere , so different from her own . 
Mother 's bed seems at present to be the height of her ambition -- the thing she most desires ; and as Juno fancies it must be the feathersshe is sighing for , she wickedly suggests that Wilford either buy a feather bed for his wife , or else send to Aunt Betsy for the one which was to be Katy 's setting out ! 
I think Wilford would quite as soon remain with us , for he does not fancy change ; but Katy wants a home of her own , and I never saw anything more absolutely beautiful than her face when father said to Wilford that No . 
But when mother intimated that there was no necessity for the two families to separate at present -- that Katy was too young to have the charge of a house -- there came into her eyes a look of such distress that it went straight to father 's heart , and calling her to him , he said , `` Tell me , sunbeam , what is your choice -- to stay with us , or have a home of your own ? '' 
Katy was very white , and her voice trembled as she replied , `` You have been kind to me here , and it is very pleasant ; but I guess -- I think -- I 'm sure -- I should like the housekeeping best . 
But Katy has no discernment , and believes she is actually going to learn how to make apple dumplings and pumpkin pies . 
In spite of mother the house is bought , and now she is gone all day deciding how it shall be furnished , always leaving Katy out of the question , as if she were a cipher , and only consulting Wilford 's choice . 
Mrs. Gen. Reynolds says that it is the way for young people to live ; that her son 's wife shall never come home to her , for of course their habits could not be alike ; and then she looked queerly at me , as if she knew I was thinking of Lieutenant Bob and who his wife might be . 
There is more danger from Will , who thinks Mrs. Grandon a perfect paragon , and who is very anxious that Katy may appear well before her , saying nothing and doing nothing which p591-139 shall in any way approximate to Silverton and the shoeswhich Katy told Esther she used to bind when a girl . 
Will need not be disturbed , for Sybil Grandon was never half as pretty as Katy , or half as much admired . 
Neither need Mrs. Gen. Reynolds fret about Bob , as if he would care for her . 
MUCH which Bell had written of Katy was true . 
She had been in New York nearly four months , drinking deep draughts from the cup of folly and fashion held so constantly to her lips ; but she cloyed of it at last , and what at first had been so eagerly grasped , began , from daily repetition , to grow insipid and dull . 
To be the belle of every place , to know that her dress , her style , and even the fashion of her hair was copied and admired , was gratifying to her , because she knew it pleased her husband , who was never happier or prouder than when , with Katy on his arm , he entered some crowded parlor and heard the buzz of admiration as it circled round , while Katy smiled and blushed like a little child , wondering at the attentions lavished upon her , and attributing them mostly to her husband , whose position she understood , marveling more and more that he should have chosen her to be his wife . 
That he had so honored her made her love him with a strange kind of grateful , clinging love , which as yet would acknowledge no fault in him , no wrong , no error ; and if ever a shadow did cloud her heart she was the one to blame , not Wilford ; he was right -- he the idol she worshiped -- he the one for whose sake she tried to drop her country ways and conform to the rules his mother and sister taught , submitting with the utmost good nature to what Bell called the drill , but never losing that natural , playful , airy manner which so charmed the city people and made her the reigning belle . 
As Marian Hazelton had predicted , others than her husband had spoken words of praise in Katy 's ear ; but such was her nature that the shafts of flattery glanced aside , leaving her unharmed , so that her husband , though sometimes disquieted , had no cause for jealousy , enjoying Katy 's success far more than she did herself , urging her out when she would rather have staid at home , and evincing so much annoyance if she ventured to remonstrate , that she gave it up at last and floated on with the tide . 
Mrs. Cameron had at first been greatly shocked at Katy 's want of propriety , looking on aghast when she wound her arms around Wilford 's neck , or sat upon his knee ; but to the elder Cameron the sight was a pleasant one , bringing back sunny memories of a summer-time years ago , when hewas young , and a fair bride had for a few brief weeks made this earth a paradise to him . 
The girlish bride was a stately matron now , doing nothing amiss , but making all her acts conform to a prescribed rule of etiquette , and frowning majestically upon the frolicsome , impulsive Katy , who had crept so far into the heart of the eccentric man that he always found the hours of her absence long , listening intently for the sound of her bounding footsteps , and feeling that her coming to his household had infused into his veins a better , healthier life than he had known for years . 
Katy was very dear to him , and he felt a thrill of pain when first the toning downprocess commenced . 
So long as his convalescence lasted , he was some restraint upon his wife , but when he was well enough to resume his duties in his Wall Street office , there was nothing in the way , and Katy 's education progressed accordingly . 
For Wilford 's sake Katy would do anything , and she submitted to much which would otherwise have been excessively annoying . 
But she was growing tired now , and it told upon her face , which was whiter than when she came to New York , while her figure was , if possible , slighter and more airy ; but this only enhanced her loveliness , Wilford thought , and so he paid no heed to her complaints of weariness , but kept her in the circle which welcomed her so warmly , and would have missed her so much . 
Little by little it had come to Katy that she was not quite as comfortable in her husband 's family as she would be in a house of her own . 
The constant watch kept over her by Mrs. Cameron and Juno irritated and fretted her , making her wonder what was the matter , and why she should so often feel lonely and desolate when surrounded by every luxury which wealth could purchase . 
`` It is his folks , '' she always said to herself when cogitating upon the subject . 
And so Katy caught eagerly at the prospect of a release from the restraint of No . 
Of all the household after Katy , Juno was perhaps the only one glad of the new house . 
It would be a change for herself , for she meant to spend much of her time on Madison Square , where everything was to be on the most magnificent style . 
Fortunately for Katy , she knew nothing of Juno 's intentions and built castles of her new home , where mother could come with Helen and Dr. Grant . 
That he did not marry Katy 's relatives was a fact as fixed as the laws of the Medes and Persians , and Katy 's anticipations were answering no other purpose than to divert her mind for the time being , keeping her bright and cheerful . 
Very pleasant indeed were the pictures Katy drew of the new house where Helen was to come , but pleasanter far were her pictures of that visit to Silverton , to occur in April . 
Poor Katy ! 
how much she thought about that visit when she should see them all and go with Uncle Ephraim down into the meadows , making believe she was Katy Lennox still -- when she could climb the ladder in the barn after new-laid eggs , or steal across the fields to Linwood , talking with Morris as she used to talk in the days which seemed so long ago . 
These words had rung in Katy 's ears for many a day , following her to the dance and to the opera , where even the music was drowned by the echo of the words , `` lose your own soul . '' 
But the sting grew less and less , till Katy no longer felt it , and now was only anxious to talk with Morris and convince him that she was not as thoughtless as he might suppose , that she still remembered his teachings , and the little church in the valley , preferring it to the handsome , aristocratic house where she went with the Camerons once on every Sunday . 
`` One more week and then it is April , '' she said to Wilford one evening after they had retired to their room , and she was talking of Silverton . 
and Katy 's voice trembled , for from past experience she knew that for Wilford to object to her plans was equivalent to a refusal , and her heart throbbed with disappointment as she tried to listen while Wilford urged many reasons why she should not go , convincing her at last that of all times for visiting Silverton , spring was the worst ; that summer or autumn were better , and that it was her duty to remain where she was until such time as he saw fit for her to do otherwise . 
This was the meaning of what he said , and though his manner was guarded , and his words kind , they were very conclusive , and with one gasping sob Katy gave up Silverton , charging it more to Mrs. Cameron than to Wilford , and writing next day to Helen that she could not come just then , but that after she was settled they might surely expect her . 
With a bitter pang Helen read this letter to the three women who had anticipated Katy 's visit so much , and each of whom cried quietly over her disappointment , while Uncle Ephraim went back to his work that afternoon with a heavy heart , for now his labor was not lightened by thoughts of Katy 's being there so soon . 
`` Please God she may come to us sometime , '' he said , pausing beneath the butternut in the meadow , and remembering just how Katy looked on that first day of her return from Canandaigua , when she sat on the flat stone while he piled up his hay and talked with her of different paths through life , one of which she must surely tread . 
She had said , `` I will choose the straight and pleasant , '' and some would think she had ; but Uncle Ephraim was not so sure , and leaning against a tree , he asked silently that whether he ever saw his darling again or not , God would care for her and keep her unspotted from the world . 
IT was a cruel thing for Wilford Cameron to try to separate Katy from the hearts which loved her so much ; and , as if he felt reproached , there was an increased tenderness in his manner toward her , particularly as he saw how sad she was for a few days after his decision . 
But Katy could not be sorry long , and in the excitement of settling the new house her spirits rallied , and her merry laugh trilled like a bird through the rooms where the workmen were so busy , and where Mrs. Cameron was the real superintendent , though there was sometimes a show of consulting Katy , who nevertheless was a mere cipher in the matter . 
Katy must not expect him to be always as devoted to her as he had been during the winter , she said . 
Katy had submitted to much without knowing that she was submitting ; but something Bell had dropped that morning had awakened a suspicion that possibly she was being ignored , and the wicked part of Helen would have enjoyed the look in her eye as she said , not to Mrs. Cameron , but to Wilford , `` I have from the very first decided this chamber for Helen , and I can not give it up for a smoking room . 
and her cold grey eyes rested steadily upon Katy , who never before so fully realized the distance there was between her husband 's friends and her own . 
But as the worm will turn when trampled on , so Katy , though hitherto powerless to defend herself , roused in Helen 's behalf , and in a tone as quiet and decided as that of her mother-in-law , replied , `` She will come whenever I write for her . 
and she turned to her husband , who , unwilling to decide between a wife he loved and a mother whose judgment he considered infallible , affected not to hear her , and stole from the room , followed by Mrs. Cameron , so that Katy was left mistress of the field . 
After that no one interfered in her arrangement of Helen 's room , which , with far less expense than Mrs. Cameron would have done , she fitted up so cosily that Wilford pronounced it the pleasantest room in the house , while Bell went into ecstasies over it , and even Juno might have unbent enough to praise it , were it not for Mark Ray , who , from being tacitly claimed by Juno , was frequently admitted to their counsels , and had asked the privilege of contributing to Helen 's room a handsome volume of German poetry , such as he fancied she might enjoy . 
So long as Mark 's attentions were not bestowed in any other quarter Juno was comparatively satisfied , but the moment he swerved a hair 's breadth from the line she had marked out , her anger was aroused ; and now , remembering his commendations of Helen Lennox , she hated her as cordially as one jealous girl can hate another whom she has not seen , making Katy so uncomfortable , without knowing what was the matter , that she hailed the morning of her exit from No . 
-- as the brightest since her marriage . 
It was a very happy day for Katy , and when she first sat down to dinner in her own home , her face shone with a joy which even the presence of her mother-in-law could not materially lessen . 
She would rather have been alone with Wilford , it is true , but as her choice was not consulted she submitted cheerfully , proudly taking her rightful place at the table , and doing the honors so well that Mrs. Cameron , in speaking of it to her daughters , acknowledged that Wilford had little to fear if Katy always appeared as much at ease as she did that day . 
A thought similar to this passed through the mind of Wilford , who was very observant of such matters , and that night , after his mother was gone , he warmly commended Katy , but spoiled the pleasure his commendations would have given by tolling her next , as if one thought suggested the other , that Sybil Grandon had returned , that he saw her on Broadway , accepting her invitation to a seat in her carriage which brought him to his door . 
She had made many inquiries concerning Katy , expressing a great curiosity to see her , and saying that as she drove past the house that morning , she was strongly tempted to waive all ceremony and run in , knowing she should be pardoned for the sake of Auld Lang Syne , when she was privileged to take liberties with the Camerons . 
All this Wilford repeated to Katy , but he did not tell her how at the words Auld Lang Syne , Sybil had turned her fine eyes upon him with an expression which made him color , for he knew she was referring to the time when her name and his were always coupled together . 
Katy had dreaded the return of Sybil Grandon , of whom she had heard so much , and now that she had come , she felt for a moment a terror of meeting her which she tried to shake off , succeeding at last , for perfect faith in Wilford was to her a strong shield of defence , and her only trouble was a fear lest she should fall in the scale of comparison which might be instituted between herself and Mrs. Grandon , who after a few days ceased to be a bugbear , Wilford never mentioning her again , and Katy only hearing of her through Juno and Bell , the first of whom went into raptures over her , while the latter styled her a silly , coquettish widow , who would appear much better to have worn her weeds a little longer , and not throw herself quite so soon into the market . 
That she should of course meet her some time , Katy knew , but she would not distress herself till the time arrived , and so she dismissed her fears , or rather lost them in the excitement of her new dignity as mistress of a house . 
In her girlhood Katy had evinced a taste for housekeeping , which now developed so rapidly that she won the respect of all the servants , from the man who answered the bell to the accomplished cook , hired by Mrs. Cameron , and who , like most accomplished cooks , was sharp and cross and opinionated , but who did not find it easy to scold the blithe little woman who every morning came flitting into her dominions , not asking what they would have for dinner , as she had been led to suppose she would , but orderingit with a matter of course air , which amused the usually overbearing Mrs. Phillips . 
For a moment Katy paused and looked straight at Mrs. Phillips ; then said , quietly , `` I have only six eggs here -- the recipe is ten . 
But when the door bell rang , and word came down that there were ladies in the parlor -- Juno , with some one else -- Philips would not tell her of the flouron her hair ; and as Katy , after casting aside her apron and putting down her sleeves , only glanced hastily at herself in the hall mirror as she passed it , she appeared in the parlor with this mark upon her curls , and greatly to her astonishment was presented to `` Mrs. Sybil Grandon , '' Juno explaining , that as Sylbil was anxious to see her , and they were passing the house , she had presumed upon her privilege as a sister and brought her in . 
For a moment the room turned dark , it was so sudden , so unexpected , and she so unprepared ; but Sybil 's familiar manner quieted her , and she was able at last to look fully at her visitor , finding her notas handsome as she expected , nor as young , but in all other respects she had not perhaps been exaggerated . 
Cultivated and self-possessed , she was very pleasing in her manner , making Katy feel wholly at ease by a few well-timed compliments , which had the merit of seeming genuine , so perfect was she in the art of deception . 
To Katy she was very gracious , admiring her house , admiring herself , admiring everything , until Katy wondered how she could ever have dreaded to meet her , laughing and chatting as familiarly as if the fashionable woman were not criticising every movement , and every act , and every feature of her face , wondering most at the flourupon her hair ! 
Juno wondered , too , but knowing Katy 's domestic propensities , suspected the truth , and feigning some errand with Phillips , she excused herself for a moment and descended to the kitchen , where she was not long in hearing about Katy 's `` queer ways , coming where she was not needed , and making country puddings after some heathenish aunt 's rule . '' 
Juno asked , her face betokening its disgust when told that she was right , and her manner on her return to the parlor was very frigid towards Katy , who had discovered the flour on her hair , and was laughing merrily over it , telling Sybil how it happened -- how cross Phillips was -- and lastly , how `` our folks '' often made the pudding , and that was why she wished to surprise Wilford with it . 
There was a sarcastic smile upon Sybil 's lip as she wished Mrs. Cameron success and then departed , leaving Katy to finish the dessert , which , when ready for the table , was certainly very inviting , and would have tempted the appetite of any man who had not been listening to gossip not wholly conducive to his peace of mind . 
On his way home Wilford had stopped at his father 's , where Juno was relating the particulars of her call upon his wife , and as she did not think it necessary to stop for him , he heard of Katy 's misdoings , and her general appearance in the presence of Sybil Grandon , whom she entertained with a description of `` our folks ' '' favorite dishes , together with Aunt Betsy 's recipes . 
Wilford did not care to have his wife domestic ; he did not marry her for that , and in a mood anything but favorable to the light , delicate dessert Katy had prepared with so much care , he went to his luxurious home , where Katy ran as usual to meet him , her face brimming with the surprise she had in store for him , and herself so much excited that she did not at first observe the cloud upon his brow , as he moodily answered her rapid questions . 
When the important moment arrived , and the dessert was brought on , he promptly declined it , even after her explanation that she made it herself , urging him to try it for the sake of pleasing her , if nothing more . 
But Wilford was not hungry then , and even had he been , he would have chosen anything before a pudding made from a recipe of Betsy Barlow , so the dessert was untasted even by Katy herself , who , knowing now that something had gone wrong , sat fighting back her tears until the servant left the room , when she timidly asked , `` What is it , Wilford ? 
What makes you seem so -- '' She would not say cross , and so substituted `` queer , '' while Wilford plunged at once into the matter by saying , `` Juno tells me she called here this afternoon with Mrs. Grandon . '' 
`` Yes , I forgot to mention it , '' Katy answered , feeling puzzled to know why that should annoy her husband ; but his next remarks disclosed the whole , and Katy 's tears flowed fast as Wilford asked what she supposed Mrs. Grandson thought , to see his wife looking as if fresh from the flour barrel , and to hear her talk about Aunt Betsy 's recipes and `` our folks . '' 
`` That is a bad habit of yours , Katy , '' he continued , `` one of which I wish you to break yourself , if possible . 
There was no answer from Katy , whose heart was too full to speak , and so Wilford went on , `` Our servants were selected by mother with a direct reference to your youth and inexperience , and it is not necessary for you to frequent the kitchen , or , indeed , to go there oftener than once a week . 
They were in the library now , and the soft May breeze came stealing through the open window , stirring the fleecy curtains and blowing across the tasteful bouquet which Katy had arranged ; but Katy was too wretched to care for her surroundings . 
It was the first time Wilford had ever spoken to her in just this way , and his manner hurt her more than his words , making her feel as if she were an ignorant , ill-bred creature , whom he had raised to a position she did not know how to fill . 
It was cruel thus to repay her attempts to please , and so , perhaps , Wilford thought , as with folded arms he sat looking at her weeping so bitterly upon the sofa ; but he was too indignant to make any concession then , and he suffered her to weep in silence until he remembered that his mother had requested him to bring her round that evening , as they were expecting a few of Juno 's friends , and among them Sybil Grandon . 
If Katy went he wished her to look her best , and he unbent so far as to try to check her tears . 
But Katy could not stop , and she wept so passionately that Wilford 's anger subsided , leaving only tenderness and pity for the wife he soothed and caressed , until the sobbing ceased , and Katy lay passively in his arms , her face so white , and the dark rings about her eyes showing so distinctly that Wilford did not press her when she declined his mother 's invitation . 
He could go , she said , urging so many reasons why he should that , for the first time since their marriage , he left her alone , and went where Sybil Grandon smiled her sunniest smile , and put forth her most persuasive powers to keep him at her side , expressing so much regret that he did not bring `` his charming little wife , who completely won her heart , she was so child-like and simple-hearted , laughing so merrily when she discovered the flour on her hair , but not seeming to mind it in the least . 
Wilford , almost grating his teeth with vexation as he listened to it , and feeling doubly mortified with Katy , whom he found waiting for him , when at a late hour he left the society of Sybil Grandon and repaired to his home . 
To Katy the time of his absence had seemed an age , for her thoughts had been busy with the past , gathering up every incident connected with her married life since she came to New York , and deducing from them the conclusion that `` Wilford 's folks '' were ashamed of her , and that Wilford himself might perhaps become so if he were not already . 
That would be worse than death itself , and the darkest hours she had ever known were those she spent alone that night , sobbing so violently as to bring on a racking headache , which showed itself upon her face and touched Wilford at once . 
There had always been a struggle between his duty and his pride when he had done so , and now the latter conquered , especially as Katy , grown more calm , began to take the censure to herself , lamenting her short-comings , and promising to do better , even to the imitating of Sybil Grandon , if that would make him forget the past and love her as before . 
Wilford could accord forgiveness far more graciously than he could ask it , and so peace was restored , and Katy 's face next day looked bright and happy when seen in her new carriage , which took her down Broadway to Stewart 's , where she encountered Sybil Grandon , and with her Juno Cameron . 
From the latter Katy instinctively shrank , but she could not resist the former , who greeted her so familiarly that Katy readily forgave her the pain of which she had been the cause , and spoke of her to Wilford without a pang when he came home to dinner . 
Still she could not overcome her dread of meeting her , and she grew more and more averse to mingling in society , where she might do many things to mortify her husband or his family , and thus provoke a scene she hoped never again to pass through . 
she thought , as she began to experience a sensation of loneliness she had never felt before . 
One word from Wilford had settled that , convincing Katy that it was better to wait until the autumn , inasmuch as they were going so soon to Saratoga and Newport , places which Katy dreaded , after she knew that Mrs. Cameron and Juno were to be of the party , and probably Sybil Grandon . 
Katy did not dislike the latter , but she was never easy in her presence , while she could not deny to herself that since Sybil 's return Wilford had not been quite the same as before . 
In company he was more attentive than ever , but at home he was sometimes moody and silent , while Katy strove in vain to ascertain the cause . 
They were not as happy in the new home as she had expected to be , but the fault did not lie with Katy . 
She performed her part and more , taking upon her young shoulders the whole of the burden which her husband should have helped her to bear . 
The easy , indolent life Wilford had led so long as a petted son of a partial mother unfitted him for care , and he was as much a boarder in his own home as he had ever been in the hotels in Paris , thoughtlessly requiring of Katy more than he should have required , so that Bell was not far from right when in her journal she described her sister-in-law as `` a little servant whose feet were never supposed to be tired , and whose wishes were never consulted . '' 
It is true Bell had put it rather strongly , but the spirit of what she said was right , Wilford seldom considering Katy , or allowing her wishes to interfere with his own plans ; while accustomed to every possible attention from his mother , he exacted the same from his wife , whose life was not one of unmixed happiness , notwithstanding that every letter home bore assurances to the contrary . 
THE last days of June had come , and Wilford was beginning to make arrangements for removing Katy from the city before the warmer weather . 
To this he had been urged by Mark Ray 's remarking that Katy was not looking as well as when he first saw her , one year ago . 
She complained much of headache , but that was only natural . 
Katy was out shopping , Esther said , and had not yet returned , adding , `` There is a note for her up stairs , left by a woman who I guess came for work . '' 
That a woman should come for work was not strange , but that she should leave a note seemed rather too familiar ; and when on going to the library he saw it upon the table , he took it in his hand and examined the superscription closely , holding it up to the light and forgetting to open it in his perplexity and the train of thought it awakened . 
`` Some of Katy 's country friends , I dare say . 
She certainly writes as Genevra did , except that this Hazelton 's is more decided and firm . 
`` At least if God has not forgiven , he has prospered me , which amounts to the same thing ; '' and without a single throb of gratitude to Him who had thus prospered him , Wilford laid Genevra 's picture and Genevra 's note back with the withered grass and flowers plucked from Genevra 's grave , just as Katy 's ring was heard and Katy herself came in . 
As thoughts of Genevra always made Wilford kinder towards his wife , so now he kissed her white cheek , noticing that , as Mark had said , it was whiter than last year in June . 
But mountain air would bring back the roses , he thought , as he handed her the note . 
`` Oh , yes , from Marian Hazelton , '' Katy said , glancing first at the name and then hastily reading it through . 
Wilford asked , and Katy replied by repeating all she knew of Marian , and how she chanced to know her at all . 
Wilford did remember something about it , and then dismissing Marian from his mind , he told Katy of his plan for taking her to the Mountain House a few weeks before going to Saratoga . 
he asked , as she continued silent , with her eyes fixed upon the window opposite . 
`` Yes , '' and Katy drew a long and weary breath . 
I shall like any place where there are birds , and rocks , and trees , and real grass , such as grows of itself in the country ; but Wilford , '' and Katy crept close to him now , `` if I might go to Silverton , I should get strong so fast ! 
Had Katy asked for half his fortune , just as she asked to go home , Wilford would have given it to her ; but Silverton had a power to lock all the softer avenues of his heart , and so he answered that the Mountain House was preferable , that the rooms were engaged , and that as he should enjoy it so much better he thought they would make no change . 
Katy did not cry , nor utter a word of remonstrance ; she was learning that quiet submission was better than useless opposition , and so Silverton was again given up . 
Perhaps , too , she had lately seen Helen or Morris at church , and had heard the music of the organ which Helen played , and the singing of the children just as it sometimes came to Katy in her dreams , making her start in her sleep and murmur snatches of the sacred songs which Dr. Morris had taught . 
Yes , Marian could tell her of all this , and very impatiently Katy waited for the morning when she started for No . 
More than once she had passed the handsome house on Madison Square where Katy lived , walking slowly , and contrasting it with her oneroom , which was not wholly uninviting , for where Marian went there was always an air of comfort ; and Katy , as she crossed the threshold , uttered an exclamation of delight at the cheerful , airy aspect of the apartment , with its bright ingrain carpet , its simple shades of white , its chintz-covered lounge , its one rocking-chair , its small parlor stove , and its pots of flowers upon the broad window sill . 
`` Oh Marian , '' she exclaimed , tripping across the floor , and impulsively throwing her arms around Miss Hazelton 's neck , `` I am so glad to meet some one from home . 
It seems almost like Helen I am kissing , '' and her lips again met those of Marian Hazelton , amid her joy at finding Katy unchanged , wondered what the Camerons would say to see their Mrs. Wilford kissing a poor seamstress whom they would have spurned . 
But Katy did not care for Cameronsthen , or even think of them , as in her rich basquine and pretty hat , with emeralds and diamonds sparkling on her fingers , she sat down by Marian . 
and Katy 's eager eyes looked wistfully at Marian , who replied , `` Not always -- not often , in fact ; but in your case they may . 
`` Only a year , '' Katy said . 
Katy asked , and Marian replied , `` They talked of little else , that is your own family . 
He has grown very silent and reserved , '' and Marian 's eyes were fixed inquiringly upon Katy , as if to ascertain how much she knew of the cause for Morris 's reserve . 
But Katy had no suspicion , and only replied , `` Perhaps he is vexed that I do not write to him oftener , but I ca n't . 
Marian asked , laughing in spite of herself at the picture Katy drew of fashion trying to imitate religion in its humility . 
`` Perhaps so , '' Katy answered . 
`` I grow bad from looking behind the scenes , and the worst is that I do not care , and then Katy went back again to the farmhouse , asking numberless questions and reaching finally the businesswhich had brought her to Marian 's room . 
I should feel so , too , if I were thirty and unmarried , '' Katy thought , as she noticed Marian 's agitation , and tried to divert her mind by talking of Europe and the places she had visited . 
Katy asked , and Marian replied , `` Once , yes . 
Marian asked ; but Katy did not remember any , or if she did , it was not `` Genevra Lampert , aged 22 . '' 
The latter most likely , he concluded , and so his face was not quite so cross when Katy at last appeared , looking at her watch and exclaiming at the lateness of the hour . 
Katy was very happy that morning , for seeing Marian had brought Silverton near to her , and airy as a bird she ran up the steps of her own dwelling , where the door opened as by magic , and Wilford himself confronted her , asking , with the tone which always made her heart beat , where she had been , and he waiting for her two whole hours . 
Could Katy be ready soon ? 
Poor Katy ! 
Soft , and sweet , and smooth was she both in word and manner , so that by the time the grove was reached Wilford 's ruffled spirits had been soothed , and he was himself again , ready to enjoy the pleasures of the day as keenly as if no harsh word had been said to Katy , who , silent and unhappy , listened to the graceful badinage between Sybil and her husband , thinking how differently his voice had sounded when addressing her only a little while before . 
`` Pray put some animation into your face , or Mrs. Grandon will think we have been quarreling , '' Wilford whispered , as he lifted his wife from the carriage , and with a great effort Katy tried to be gay and natural . 
But all the while she was fighting back her tears and wishing she were away . 
The next morning was dark and rainy ; but in spite of the weather Katy found her way to Marian 's room , this time taking the -- avenue cars , which left her independent as regarded the length of her stay . 
About Marian there was something more congenial than about her city friends , and day after day found her there , watching while Marian fashioned into shape the beautiful little garments , the sight of which had a strangely quieting influence upon Katy , sobering her down , and maturing her more than all the years of her life had done . 
Those were happy hours spent with Marian Hazelton , and Katy felt it keenly when Wilford at last interfered , telling her she was growing quite too familiar with that sewing woman , and her calls must be discontinued , except , indeed , such as were necessary to the work in progress . 
With one great gush of tears , when there was no one to see her , Katy gave Marian up , writing her a note , in which were sundry directions for the work , which would go on even after she had left for the Mountain House , as she intended doing the last of June . 
And Marian guessed at more than Katy meant she should , and with a bitter sigh laid it in her basket , and then resumed the work , which seemed doubly monotonous now that there was no more listening for the little feet tripping up the stairs , or for the bird-like voice which had brought so much of music and sunshine to her lonely room . 
FOR three weeks Katy had been at the Mountain House , growing stronger every day , until she was much like the Katy of one year ago , But their stay among the Catskills was ended , and on the morrow they were going to Saratoga , where Mrs. Cameron and her daughters were , and where , too , was Sybil Grandon , the reigning belle of the United States . 
So Bell had written to her brother , bidding him hasten on with Katy , as she wished to see `` that chit of a widow in her proper place . '' 
And Katy had been weak enough for a moment to feel a throb of satisfaction in knowing how effectually Sybil 's claims to belle-ship would be put aside when she was once in the field ; even glancing at herself in the mirror as she leaned on Wilford 's shoulder , and feeling glad that mountain air and mountain exercise had brought the roses back to her white cheeks and the brightness to her eyes . 
But Katy wept passionate tears of repentance for that weakness , when an hour later she read the letter which Dr. Grant had sent in answer to one she had written from the Mountain House , confessing her short-comings , and lamenting that the evils and excesses which shocked her once did not startle her now . 
This was the substance of Morris 's letter , which Katy read with streaming eyes , forgetting Saratoga as Morris 's solemn words of warning and admonition rang in her ears , and shuddering as she thought of losing the life eternal , of going where Morris would never come , nor any of those she loved the best , unless it were Wilford , who might reproach her with having dragged him there when she could have saved him . 
`` Keep yourself unspotted from the world , '' Morris had said , and she repeated it to herself , asking `` how shall I do that ? 
Then laying her head upon the rock where she was sitting , Katy tried to pray as she had not prayed in months , asking that God would teach her what she ought to know , and keep her unspotted from the world . 
And Katy , alas , was not quite the same as she who on the mountain ridge had sat with Morris 's letter in her hand , praying that its teachings might not be forgotten . 
Saratoga seemed different to her from New York , and she plunged into its gaieties , never pausing , never tiring , and seldom giving herself time to think , much less to pray , as Morris had bidden her do . 
And Wilford , though hardly able to recognize the usually timid Katy in the brilliant woman who led rather than followed , was sure of her faith to him , and so was only proud and gratified to see her bear off the palm from every competitor , while Juno , though she quarreled with the shadow into which she was so completely thrown , enjoyed the clat cast upon their party by the presence of Mrs. Wilford , who had passed beyond her criticism . 
But it did not matter there what Katy had been ; the people took her for what she was now , and Sybil 's glory faded like the early dawn in the coming of the full day . 
Urged on by Mrs. Cameron and Bell , who enjoyed her notoriety , Katy plunged into the mad excitement of dancing and driving and coqueting , until Wilford himself became uneasy , locking her once in her room , where she was sleeping after dinner , and conveniently forgetting to release her until after the departure at evening of some young men from Cambridge , whose attentions to the Ocean House belle had been more strongly marked than was altogether agreeable to him . 
Of course it was a mistake -- the locking of the door -- and a great oversight in him not to have remembered it sooner , he said to Katy , by way of apology ; and Katy , with no suspicion of the truth , laughed merrily at the joke , repeating it down stairs to the old dowagers , who shrugged their shoulders meaningly and whispered to each other that it might be well if more young wives were locked into their rooms and thus kept out of mischief . 
Though flattered , caressed , and admired , Katy was not doing herself much credit at Newport ; but save Wilford there was no one to raise a warning voice , until Mark Ray came down for a few days ' respite from the heated city , where he had spent the entire summer , taking charge of the business which belonged as much to Wilford as to himself . 
And so he had remained at home until the last of August , when he appeared suddenly at the Ocean House one night when Katy , in her airy robes and child-like simplicity , was breaking hearts by the score . 
Like others , Mark was charmed , and not a little proud for Katy 's sake , to see her thus appreciated ; but when one day 's experience had shown him more , and given him a look behind the scenes , he trembled for her , knowing how hard it would be for her to come out of that sea of dissipation as pure and spotless as she went in . 
It is surely nothing to me what Katy Cameron does , '' he kept repeating to himself ; but as often as he said it there came up before him a pale , anxious face , shaded with Helen Lennox 's bands of hair , and Helen Lennox 's voice whispered to him , `` Save Katy , for my sake ; '' and so next day , when Mark found himself alone with Katy , while most of the guests were at the beach , he questioned her of her life at Saratoga and Newport , and gradually , as he talked , there crept into Katy 's heart a suspicion that he was not pleased with her account , or with what he had seen of her since his arrival . 
For a moment Katy was indignant , but when he said to her kindly , `` Would Helen be pleased ? '' 
her tears started at once , and she attempted an excuse for her weak folly , accusing Sybil Grandon as the first cause of the ambition for which she hated herself . 
`` She had been held up as my pattern , '' she said , half bitterly , and forgetting to whom she was talking -- `` she , the one whom I was to imitate ; and when I found that I could go beyond her , I yielded to the temptation , and exulted to see how far she was left behind . 
Besides that , '' she continued , `` is it no gratification , think you , to let Wilford 's proud mother and sister see the poor country girl , whom ordinarily they would despise , stand where they can not come , and even dictate to them if she chooses so to do ? 
Katy 's tears had ceased , and on her white face there was a new look of womanhood , as if in that outburst she had changed , and would never again be just what she was before . 
`` Say , '' she continued , `` do youlike New York society ? '' 
Mark did not know why he had dragged Helen into that conversation , unless it were that she seemed very near to him as he talked with Katy , who replied , `` Yes , Helen finds good in all . 
It would be a study to watch Helen Lennox there at Newport , and in imagination Mark was already her sworn knight , shielding her from criticism , and commanding for her respect from those who respected him , when Katy tore his castle down by answering impulsively , `` I doubt if Wilford would let me send for her , nor does it matter , as I shall not remain much longer . 
The guests were beginning to return from the beach by this time , and as Mark had said all he had intended saying , he left Katy with Wilford , who had just come in and joined a merry party of Bostonians only that day arrived . 
This sober phase of Katy did not on the whole please Wilford as much as her gayer ones had done . 
Katy had fulfilled his highest expectations , reaching a point from which , as she had said to Mark , she could dictate to his mother , if she chose , and he did not care to see her relinquish it . 
But Katy remained true to herself . 
Dropping her girlish playfulness , she assumed a quiet , gentle dignity , which became her even better than her gayer mood had done , making her ten times more popular and more sought after , until she begged to go away , persuading Wilford at last to name the day for their departure , and then , never doubting for a moment that her destination was Silverton , she wrote to Helen that she should be home on such a day , and as they would come by way of Providence and Worcester , they would probably reach West Silverton at 10 o'clock , A M. `` Wilford , '' she added , in a postscript , `` has gone down to bathe , and as the mail is just closing , I shall send this letter without his seeing it . 
THE last day of summer was dying out in a fierce storm of rain which swept in sheets across the Silverton hills , hiding the pond from view , and beating against the windows of the farm-house , whose inmates were nevertheless unmindful of the storm save as they hoped the morrow would prove bright and fair , such as the day should be which brought them back their Katy . 
Nearly worn out with constant reference was her letter , the mother catching it up from time to time , to read the part referring to herself , where Katy had told how blessed it would be `` to rest again on mother 's bed , '' just as she had so often wished to do , `` and hear mother 's voice ; '' the deacon spelling out by his spluttering tallow candle , with its long , smoky wick , what she had said of `` darling old Uncle Eph '' and the rides into the fields ; Aunt Betsy , too , reading mostly from memory the words , `` Good old Aunt Betsy , with her skirts so limp and short , tell her she will look handsomer to me than the fairest belle at Newport ; '' and as often as Aunt Betsy read it she would ejaculate , `` The land ! 
Aunt Betsy had asked in her simplicity , feeling an increased respect for Katy , and consenting the more readily to the change in her pongee , as suggested to her by Helen . 
But that was for to-morrow when Katy came ; to-night she only wore a dotted brown , whose hem just reached the top of her `` bootees , '' as she went to strain the milk brought in by Uncle Ephraim , while Helen took her position near the window , looking drearily out upon the leaden clouds , and hoping it would brighten before the morrow . 
Like the others , Helen had read Katy 's letter many times , dwelling longest upon the part which said , `` I have been so bad , so frivolous and wicked here at Newport , that it will be a relief to make you my confessor , depending , as I do , upon your love to grant me absolution . '' 
Since then there had been some anxiety felt for her at the farm-house , and more than Dr. Grant had prayed that she might be kept unspotted from the world ; but when her letter came , so full of love and self-reproaches , the burden was lifted , and there was nothing to mar the anticipations of the event for which they had made so many preparations , Uncle Ephraim going to the expense of buying at auction a half-worn covered buggy , which he fancied would suit Katy better than the corn-colored wagon in which she used to ride . 
But his comfort was nothing compared with Katy 's happiness , and so , with his wrinkled face beaming with delight , he had brought home his buggy , putting it carefully in the barn , and saying no one should ride in it till Katy came . 
With untiring patience the old man mended up his harness , for what he had heard of Katy 's driving had impressed him strongly with her powers of horsemanship , and raised her somewhat in his respect . 
`` Katy inherits her love of horses from me , '' he said complacently ; and with a view of improving Whitey 's style and mettle , he took to feeding him on oats , talking to him at times , and telling him who was coming . 
But they were all gone now , -- Katy would be home on the morrow , and with the shutting in of night the candles were lighted in the sitting-room , and Helen sat down to her work , wishing it was to-night that Katy was coming . 
As if in answer to her wish there was the sound of wheels , which stopped before the house , and dropping her work Helen ran quickly to the door , just as from under the dripping umbrella held by a driver boy , a tall young man sprang upon the step , nearly upsetting her , but passing an arm around her shoulders in time to keep her from falling . 
With a chirrup and a blow the horse started forward , and the mud-bespattered vehicle was moving down the road ere Helen had recovered her surprise at recognizing Mark Ray , who shook the rain-drops from his hair , and offering her his hand said in reply to her involuntary exclamation , `` I thought it was Katy , '' `` Shall I infer then that I am the less welcome ? '' 
He did not guess that Wilford Cameron stood between him and Helen 's good opinion ; but when , after the family came in , the conversation turned upon Katy and her life in New York , the secret came out in the sharp , caustic manner with which she spoke of New York and its people . 
Awhile they talked of Katy and New York , Mark laboring to convince Helen that its people were not all heartless and fickle , and at last citing his mother as an instance . 
It was arranged that Mark should ride to the cars with Uncle Ephraim when he went for Katy , and as this gave him a good two hours of leisure , he spoke of Dr. Grant , asking Helen if she did not suppose he would call round . 
Mark assured her that it did not matter ; his coat was nearly worn out , and anyway he never should regret that he had churnedonce in his life , or forget it either ; and then he asked if Helen would be in New York the coming winter , talking of the pleasure it would be to meet her there , until Helen began to feel what she never before had felt , a desire to visit Katy in her own home . 
`` Remember if you come that I am your debtor for numerous hospitalities , '' he said , when he at last bade her good-bye and sprang into the covered buggy , which Uncle Ephraim had brought out in honor of Katy 's arrival . 
Uncle Ephraim had returned from the store near by , laden with the six pounds of crush sugar and the two pounds of real old Java he had been commissioned to purchase with a view to Katy 's taste , and now upon the platform at West Silverton he stood , with Mark Ray , waiting for the arrival of the train just appearing in view across the level plain . 
`` It 's fifteen months since she went away , '' he said , and Mark saw that the old man 's form trembled with the excitement of meeting her again , while his eyes scanned eagerly every window and door of the cars now slowly stopping before him . 
and he laid his hand nervously on Mark 's shoulder , as a white , jaunty feather appeared in view ; but that was not Katy , and the dim eyes ran again along the whole line of the cars , from which so many were alighting . 
But Katy did not come , and with a long breath of wonder and disappointment the deacon said , `` Can it be she is asleep ? 
Mark knew there was plenty of time , and so he made the tour of the cars , but found , alas , no Katy . 
I 'll go and see , '' he said , and driving to their regular office he found a letter directed by Wilford Cameron , but written by Katy ; but he could not read it then , and thrusting it into his pocket he went slowly back to the home where the tempting dinner was prepared and the family waiting so eagerly for him . 
There was a mistake ; Katy had missed the train , she said to her mother and aunts , who hoped she might be right . 
But Katy had not missed the train , as was indicated by the letter which Uncle Ephraim without a word put into Helen 's hand , leaning on old Whitey 's neck while she read aloud the attempt at an explanation which Katy had hurriedly written , a stain on the paper where a tear had fallen , attesting her distress at the bitter disappointment . 
`` Wilford did not know of the other letter , '' she said , `` and had made arrangements for her to go back with him to New York , inasmuch as the house was already opened and the servants there wanting a head ; besides that , Wilford had been absent so long that he could not possibly stop at Silverton himself , and as he would not think of living without her , even for a few days , there was no alternative but for her to go with him on the boat directly to New York . 
I am sorry , oh , so sorry , but indeed I am not to blame , '' she added in conclusion , and this was the nearest approach there was to an admission that anybody was to blame for this disappointment which cut so cruelly , making Uncle Ephraim cry as out in the barn he hung away the mended harness and covered the new buggy , which had been bought for naught . 
`` I might have had the overcoat , for Katy will never come home again , never . 
God grant that it 's the Cameron pride , not hers that kept her from us , '' the old man said , as on the hay he knelt down and prayed that Katy had not learned to despise the home where she was so beloved . 
`` Katy will never come to us again , '' seemed the prevailing opinion at Silverton , where more than Uncle Ephraim felt a chilling doubt at times as to whether she really wished to come or not . 
If she did , it seemed easy of accomplishment to those who knew not how perfect and complete were the fetters thrown around her , and how unbending the will which governed hers . 
Could they have seen the look in Katy 's face when she first understood that she was not going to Silverton , their hearts would have bled for the thwarted creature who fled up the stairs to her own room , where Esther found her twenty minutes later , cold and fainting upon the bed , her face as white as ashes , and her hands clenched so tightly that the nails left marks upon the palms . 
`` It was not strange that the poor child should faint -- indeed , it was only natural that nature should give way after so many weeks of gaiety , and she very far from being strong , '' Mrs. Cameron said to Wilford , who was beginning to repent of his decision , and who but for that remark perhaps might have revoked it . 
Indeed , he made an attempt to do so when , as consciousness came back , Katy lay so pale and still before p591-178 him ; but Katy did not understand him , or guess that he wished her to meet him more than half the way , and so the verdict was unchanged , and in a kind of bewilderment , Katy wrote the hurried letter , feeling less actual pain than did its readers , for the disappointment had stunned her for a time , and all she could remember of the passage home on that same night when Mark Ray sat with Helen in the sitting room at Silverton , was that there was a fearful storm of rain mingled with lightning flashes and thunder peals , which terrified the other ladies , but brought to her no other sensation save that it would not be so very hard to perish in the dark waters dashing so madly about the vessel 's side . 
Katy was very ill -- dying , perhaps -- or Wilford had never telegraphed . 
`` You know Katy 's constitution . 
You might save her life . '' 
If he was needed they might send and he would come , but not without ; and so next day he carried Helen to the cars , saying to her as they were waiting for the train , `` I hope for the best , but it may be Katy will die . 
If you think so , tell her , oh , tell her , of the better world , and ask if she is prepared ! 
I can not lose her in Heaven . '' 
Helen could not see Mark 's face distinctly ; but full of fear for Katy , she fancied there was a sad tone in his voice , as if he were keeping back something he dreaded to tell her ; and then , as it suddenly occurred to her that Wilford should have met her , not Mark , her great fear found utterance in words , and leaning forward so that her face almost touched Mark 's she said , `` Tell me , Mr. Ray , is Katy dead ? '' 
`` Her little daughter will be a week old to-morrow , '' Mark replied ; while Helen , with an exclamation of surprise she could not repress , sank back into the corner , faint and giddy with the excitement of this fact , which invested little Katy with a new dignity , and drew her so much nearer to the sister who could scarcely wait for the carriage to stop , so anxious was she to be where Katy was , to kiss her dear face once more , and whisper the words of love she knew she must have longed to hear . 
They were so different from anything she had imagined , so much handsomer than even Katy 's descriptions had implied , that for the moment the sight took her breath away , and she sank passively into the chair Mark brought for her , himself taking her muff and tippet , and noting , as he did so , that they were not mink , nor yet Russian sable , but well-worn , well-kept fitch , such as Juno would laugh at and criticise . 
he asked , answering his own query by ringing the bell and bidding Esther , who appeared , tell Phillips that Miss Lennox had arrived , and wished for supper , explaining to Helen that since Katy 's illness they had dined at three , as that accommodated them the best . 
The omission was not made purposely , but because he really did not feel enough of interest in people so widely different from himself even to ask for them , much less to suspect how Helen 's blood boiled as she detected the omission and imputed it to intended slight , feeling glad when he excused himself , saying he must go back to Katy , but would send his mother down to see her . 
From the first moment of consciousness after the long hours of suffering , Katy had asked for Helen , rather than her mother . 
`` She would be of no use whatever , and might excite our Katy . 
Quiet is highly important just now , '' Mrs. Cameron had said , thus veiling under pretended concern for Katy her aversion to the girl whose independence in declining her dress-maker had never been forgiven , and whom she had set down in her mind as rude and ignorant . 
`` If her coming would do Katy harm she ought not to come , '' Wilford thought , while Katy in her darkened room moaned on , `` Send for sister Helen ; please send for sister Helen . '' 
At last , on the fourth day , Mrs. Banker , Mark Ray 's mother , came to the house , and in consideration of the strong liking she had evinced for Katy ever since her arrival in New York , and the great respect felt for her by Mrs. Cameron , she was admitted to the chamber and heard the plaintive pleadings , `` Send for sister Helen , '' until her motherly heart was touched , and as she sat with her son at dinner she spoke of the young girl-mother moaning so for Helen . 
Whether it was Mark 's great pity for Katy , or whether he was prompted by some more selfish motive , we do not profess to say , but that he was greatly excited was very evident from his manner as he exclaimed , `` Why not send for Helen , then ? 
Talk of herinjuring Katy , that 's all a humbug . 
She is just fitted for a nurse . 
Almost the sight of her would cure one of nervousness , she is so calm and quiet . '' 
`` It may save her life . 
She is more feverish to-day than yesterday , and this constant asking for her sister will wear her out so fast , '' she added , and that last argument prevailed . 
Wilford did not mean Katy to hear him as he whispered to his mother that Helen was below ; but she did , and her blue eyes flashed brightly as she started from her pillow , exclaiming , `` I am so glad , so glad ! 
Does she know ? 
Have you told her ? 
Was n't she surprised , and will she come up quick ? '' 
She is going down , '' Wilford said ; but Katy had quite as much fear of leaving Helen to `` mother '' as to Phillips , and insisted upon Esther until the latter came , receiving numerous injunctions as to the jam , the sweetmeats , the peaches and the cold ham Helen must have , each one being remembered as her favorite . 
Wholly unselfish , Katy thought nothing of herself or the effort it cost her to care for Helen ; but when it was over and Esther was gone , she seemed so utterly exhausted that Mrs. Cameron did not leave her , but staid at her bedside , until the extreme paleness was gone , and her eyes were more natural . 
Meanwhile the supper , which as Katy feared had made Phillips cross , had been arranged by Esther , who conducted Helen to the dining-room , herself standing by and waiting upon her because the one whose duty it was had gone out for the evening , and Phillips had declined the `` honor , '' as she styled it . 
There was a homesick feeling tugging at Helen 's heart , while she tried to eat , and only the certainty that Katy was not far away kept her tears back . 
To her the very grandeur of the house made it desolate , and she was so glad it was Katy who lived there and not herself as she went up the soft carpeted stairway , which gave back no sound , and through the marble hall to the parlor , where , by the table on which her cloak and furs were lying , a lady stood , as dignified and unconscious as if she had not been inspecting the self-same furwhich Mark Ray had observed , but not , like him , thinking it did not matter , for it did matter very materially with her , and a smile of contempt had curled her lip as she turned over the tippet which Phillips would not have worn . 
`` Miss Lennox , I presume -- my daughter Katy 's sister ? '' 
Helen had not expected this , and the warm flush which came to her cheeks made her very handsome , as she returned Mrs. Cameron 's greeting , and then asked more particularly for Katy than she had yet done . 
`` Naturally a lady as well as Katy ; there must be good blood somewhere , probably on the Lennox side , '' was Mrs. Cameron 's private opinion , while Helen , after a few moments , began to feel far more at ease with Mrs. Cameron that she had done in the dining-room with Esther waiting on her , and the cross Phillips stalking once through the room for no ostensible purpose except to get a sight of her . 
`` Strong-minded , '' was her final decision , as she said at last , `` We promised Katy she should see you to-night . 
Then the color left Helen 's face and lips and her limbs shook perceptibly , for the knowing she was soon to meet her sister unnerved her ; but by the time the door of Katy 's room was reached she was herself again , and there was no need for Mrs. Cameron to whisper , `` Pray do not excite her . '' 
Katy heard her coming , and it required all Wilford 's and the nurse 's efforts to keep her quiet . 
she cried , as she wound her arms around Helen 's neck , and laid her golden head on Helen 's bosom , sobbing in a low , mournful way which told Helen more how she had been longed for than did the weak voice which whispered , `` I 've wanted you so much , oh Helen ; you do n't know how much I 've missed you all the years I 've been away . 
You will not leave me now , '' and Katy clung closer to the dear sister who gently unclasped the clinging arms and put back upon the pillow the quivering face , which she kissed so tenderly , whispering in her own old half soothing , half commanding way , `` Be quiet now , Katy . 
Next to Dr. Grant Helen had more influence over Katy than any living being , and it was very apparent now , for , as if her presence had a power to soothe , Katy grew very quiet , and utterly wearied out , slept for a few moments with Helen 's hand fast locked in hers . 
`` It seems so funny that it is Katy 's baby , '' Helen said , taking the puny little thing , which with its wrinkled face and red , clinched fists was not very attractive to her , save as she looked at it with Katy 's eyes . 
She did not even kiss it , but her tears dropped upon its head as she thought how short the time since up in the old garret at home she had dressed rag dolls for the Katy who was now a mother . 
And still in a measure she was the same , hugging Helen fondly when she said good-night , and welcoming her so joyfully in the morning when she came again , telling her how just the sight of her sitting there by baby 's crib did her so much good . 
`` I shall get well so fast , '' she said ; and she was right , for Helen was worth far more to her than all the physician 's powders , and Wilford was glad that Helen came , even if she did sometimes shock him with her independent ways , upsetting all his plans and theories with regard to Katy , and meeting him on other grounds with an opposition as puzzling as it was new to him . 
To see New York with Mrs. Banker was a treat indeed , and Helen 's heart bounded high as she ran up to Katy 's room with the request . 
`` Yes , go by all means , '' Katy said . 
Tell her I thank her so much for her thoughtfulness , '' and with a kiss Katy sent Helen away , while Mrs. Cameron , after twisting her rings nervously for a moment , said to Katy , `` Perhaps your sister would do well to wear your furs . 
Take them to her , '' Katy answered , knowing intuitively the feeling which had prompted this suggestion from her mother-in-law , who hastened to Helen 's room with the rich sable she was to wear in place of the old fitch . 
Helen appreciated the difference at once between her furs and Katy 's , and felt a pang of mortification as she saw how old and poor and dowdyhers were beside the others . 
But they were her own -- the best she could afford . 
She would not begin by borrowing , and so she declined the offer , and greatly to Mrs. Cameron 's horror went down to Mrs. Banker clad in the despised furs , which Mrs. Cameron would on no account have had beside her on Broadway in an open carriage . 
Wilford felt a little uncomfortable at having suffered a stranger to do for Katy 's sister what should have been done by himself . 
Katy had asked him to drive with Helen ; but he had found it very convenient to forget it , and take a seat instead-with Juno and Mrs. Grandon , the latter of whom complimented `` Miss Lennox 's fine intellectual face , '' after they had passed , and complimented it the more as she saw how it vexed Juno , who could see nothing `` in those bold eyes and that masculine forehead , '' just because their vis--vischanced to be Mark Ray . 
This was Bell 's leave-taking , while Sybil 's was , if possible , more friendly , for she took a perverse kind of pleasure in annoying Juno , who wondered `` what she or Bell could see to like in that awkward country girl , who she knew had on one of Katy 's cast-off collars , and whose wardrobe was the most ordinary she ever saw ; fitch furs , think of that ! '' 
`` Then you think her pretty ? 
You have called on her ? '' 
I wish you could hear him describe the feather beds on which he slept -- that is , describe them before he decided to take Katy ; for after that he was chary of his remarks , and the feathers by some marvelous process were changed into hair , for what he knew or cared . '' 
Once I thought it might have been our Katy , but was mistaken . 
IT was three days before Christmas , and Katy was talking confidentially to Mrs. Banker , whom she had asked to see the next time she called . 
`` I want so much to surprise her , '' she said , speaking in a whisper , `` and you have been so kind to us both that I thought it might not trouble you very much if I asked you to make the selection for me , and see to the engraving . 
`` Yes , '' Katy replied , `` I think that will please her , do n't you ? '' 
Still she hardly liked to interfere , until Katy , observing her hesitancy , asked again if she did not think Helen would be pleased . 
Katy understood Mrs. Banker at once , her cheeks reddening as there flashed upon her the reason whyWilford had never yet been in the street with Helen , notwithstanding that she had more than once requested it . 
You are as kind as my own mother , '' and Katy kissed her friend fondly as she bade her good-bye , charging her a dozen times not to let Helen know the surprise in store for her . 
And Helen , too , keenly felt the difference between herself and those with whom she came in contact , crying over it more than once , but never dreaming of the surprise in store for her , when on Christmas morning she went as usual to Katy 's room , finding her alone , her face all aglow with excitement , and her bed a perfect show-case of dry goods , which she bade Helen examine and say how she liked them . 
Wilford was no niggard with his money , and when Katy had asked for more it had been given unsparingly , even though he knew the purpose to which it was to be applied . 
`` Oh , Katy , Katy , why did you do it ? '' 
Katy said , in some dismay , as Helen continued to sob without looking at the handsome furs , the stylish hat , the pretty cloak , and rich patterns of blue and black silk , which Mrs. Banker had selected . 
`` It was a pleasure for him to do it , '' Katy said , trying to reassure her sister , until she grew calm enough to examine and admire the Christmas gifts upon which no expense had been spared . 
At least Helen Lennox found it so , when clad in her new garments , she drove with Mrs. Banker , or returned Sybil Grandon 's call , feeling that there was about her nothing for which Katy need to blush , or even Wilford , who was not afraid to be seen with her now , and Helen , while knowing the reason of the change , did not feel like quarreling with him for it , but accepted with a good-natured grace all that made her life in New York so happy . 
With Bell Cameron she was on the best of terms ; while Sybil Grandon , always going with the tide , professed for her an admiration , which , whether fancied or real , did much toward making her popular ; and when , as the mistress of her brother 's house , she issued cards of invitation for a large party , she took especial pains to insist upon Helen 's attending , even if Katy were not able . 
Never since the days of herfirst party had Katy been so wild with excitement as she was in helping to dress Helen , who scarcely knew herself when , before the mirror , with the blaze of the chandelier falling upon her , she saw the picture of a young girl arrayed in rich pink silk , with an overskirt of lace , and the light pretty cloak , just thrown upon her uncovered neck , where Katy 's pearls were shining . 
Katy exclaimed , throwing back the handsome cloak so as to show more of the well-shaped neck , gleaming so white beneath it . 
Even this exception would not apply to the low neck , at which Helen had long demurred , yielding finally to Katy 's entreaties , but often wondering what Mark Ray would think , and if he would not be shocked . 
`` You will be the belle of the evening , '' Katy said , as she kissed her sister good night and then ran back to her baby , while Wilford , yielding to her importunities that he should not remain with her , followed Mrs. Banker 's carriage in his own private conveyance , and was soon set down at Sybil Grandon 's door . 
Presuming upon his mother 's chaperonage , he claimed the right of attending her , and Juno 's glory waned as effectually as it had done when Katy was the leading star to which New York paid homage . 
Juno had been annoyed then , but now fierce jealousy took possession of her heart as she watched the girl whom all seemed to admire , even Wilford feeling a thrill of pride that the possession of so attractive a sister-in-law reflected credit upon himself . 
I doubt if even Katy suspects what I have admitted ; but knowing how fascinating Mark can be , and that just at present he seems to be pleased with you , I have acted as I should wish a friend to act toward my own child . 
Were it not that you are one of our family , I might not have interfered , and I trust you not to repeat even to Katy what I have said . '' 
Helen had as few weak points as most young ladies , but she was not free from them all , and the fact that Mrs. Cameron had taken her into a confidence which even Katy did not share , was soothing to her ruffled spirits , particularly as after that confidence , Mrs. Cameron was excessively gracious to her , introducing her to many whom she did not know before , and paying her numberless little attentions , which made Juno stare , while the clear-seeing Bell arched her eyebrows , and wondered for what Helen was to be made a cat 's pawby her clever mother . 
`` It 's that confounded waltzing which disgusted her , '' he said , `` and no wonder , for if ever a man looks like an idiot , it is when he is kicking up his heels to the sound of a fiddle , and whirling some woman whose skirts sweep everything within the circle of a rod , and whose face wears that die-away expression I have so often noticed . 
WILFORD had wished for a son , and in the first moment of disappointment he had almost been conscious of a resentful feeling toward Katy , who had given him only a daughter . 
A boy , a Cameron heir , was something of which to be proud ; but a little girl , scarcely larger than the last doll with which Katy had played , was a different thing , and it required all Wilford 's philosophy and common sense to keep him from showing his chagrin to the girlish creature , whose love had fastened with an idolatrous grasp upon her child , clinging to it with a devotion which made Helen tremble as she thought what if God should take it from her . 
`` He wo n't , oh , he wo n't , '' Katy said , when once she suggested the possibility , and in the eyes usually so soft and gentle there was a fierce gleam , as Katy hugged her baby closer to her and said , `` God does not willfully torment us . 
In time it would be pretty , for it had Katy 's perfect features , and the hair just beginning to grow was a soft , golden brown ; but it was too small now , too puny to be handsome , while in its eyes there was a scared , hunted kind of look , which chafed Wilford more than aught else could have done , for that was the look which had crept into Katy 's eyes at Newport when she found she was not going home . 
Of course Katy would acquiesce in whatever Wilford said was best , and he always thought as they did . 
Very pure and beautiful Katy looked as she took her old place in the chair they called hers at father Cameron 's , because it was the one she had always preferred to any other , -- a large , motherly easy-chair , which took in nearly the whole of her petite figure , and against whose soft cushioned back she leaned her curly head with a pretty air of importance , as , after dinner was over , she came back to the parlor with the other ladies , and waited for the gentlemen to join them , when they were to talk up baby 's name . 
Katy knew exactly what it would be called , but as Wilford had never asked her , she was keeping it a secret , not doubting that the others would be quite as much delighted as herself with the novel name . 
Not long before her illness she had read an English story , which had in it a Genevra , and she had at once seized upon it as the most delightful cognomen a person could well possess . 
She had repeated it to herself many a time as she sat with her baby in her lap . 
She had written it on sundry slips of paper , which had afterwards found their way into the grate ; and once she had scratched with her diamond ring upon the window pane in her dressing-room , where it now stood in legible characters , `` Genevra Cameron ! '' 
The gentlemen came at last , and father Cameron drew his chair close to Katy 's side , laying his hand on her little soft warm one , and giving it a squeeze as the bright face glanced lovingly into his . 
Father Cameron had grown a milder , gentler man since Katy came . 
He now went much oftener into society , and did not so frequently shock his wife with expressions and opinions which she held as heterodox . 
Katy had a softening influence over him , and he loved her as well perhaps as he had ever loved his own children . 
`` Better , '' Juno said ; and now she touched Bell 's arm , to have her see `` how father was petting Katy . '' 
But Bell did not care , while Wilford was pleased , and himself drew nearer the chair , standing just behind it , so that Katy could not see him as he smoothed her curly head , and said , half indifferently , `` Now for the all-important name . 
`` Let your mother speak first , '' Katy said , and thus appealed to , Mrs. Cameron came up to Wilford and expressed her preference for Margaret , as being a good name , an aristocratic name , and her own . 
Give us your opinion , Katy . '' 
`` Ihave known from the first , '' Katy replied , `` and I am sure you will agree with me . 
'T is a beautiful name of a sweet young girl , and there was a great secret about her , too -- Genevra , baby will be called , '' and Katy looked straight into the fire , wholly unconscious of the effect that name had produced upon Wilford and his mother . 
This occasioned a little diversion , and by the time the flowers and fragments were gathered up , Wilford 's lips were not quite so livid , but he dared not trust his voice yet , and listened while his sisters gave their opinion of the name , Bell deciding for it at once , and Juno hesitating until she had heard from a higher power than Katy . 
Katy explained , and with the removal of the fear , which for a few moments had chilled his blood , Wilford grew calm again ; while into his heart there crept the thought that by giving that name to his child , some slight atonement might be made to her above whose head the English daisies had blossomed and faded many a year . 
But not so with his mother ; -- the child should not be called Genevra if she could prevent it ; and she opposed it with all her powers , offering at last , as a great concession on her part , to let it bear the name of either of Katy 's family -- Hannah and Betsy excepted , of course Lucy Lennox , Helen Lennox , Katy Lennox , anything but Genevra . 
As usual , Wilford , when he learned her mind , joined with her , notwithstanding his secret preference , and the discussion became quite warm , especially as Katy evinced a willfulness for which Helen had never given her credit . 
Hitherto she had been as yielding as wax , but on this point she was firm , gathering strength from the fact that Wilford did not oppose her as he usually did . 
She could not , perhaps , have resisted him , but his manner was not very decided , and so she quietly persisted , `` Genevra or nothing , '' until the others gave up the contest , hoping she would feel differently after a few days ' reflection . 
But Katy knew she should n't , and Helen could not overcome the exultation with which she saw her little sister put the Camerons to rout and remain master of the field . 
`` After all it does not matters , '' Mrs. Cameron said to her daughters , when , after Mrs. Wilford was gone , she sat talking of Katy 's queer fancy and her obstinacy in adhering to it . 
But little did Mrs. Cameron or Juno care for the baptism except as a display , and as both would be much prouder of a fine-looking child , they were well content to wait until such time as Katy should incline more favorably to their Margaret or Rose Marie . 
AS soon as it was understood that Mrs. Wilford Cameron was able to go out , there were scores of pressing invitations from the gay world which had missed her so much , but Katy declined them all on the plea that baby needed her care . 
She was happier at home , and as a mother it was her place to stay there . 
At first Wilford listened quietly , but when he found it was her fixed determination to abjure society entirely , he interfered in his cool , decisive way , which always carried its point . 
As proof of this he led her to the glass , showing her the pale , thin face and unnaturally large eyes , so distasteful to him . 
Wilford Cameron was very proud of his handsome house , -- proud to know that everything there was in keeping with his position and wealth , but when Katy was immured in the nursery , the bright picture was obscured , for it needed her presence to make it perfect , and he began to grow dissatisfied with his surroundings , while abroad he missed her quite as much , finding the opera , the party or the reception , insipid where she was not , and feeling fully conscious that Wilford Cameron , without a wife , and that wife Katy , was not a man of half the consequence he had thought himself to be . 
Even Sybil Grandon did not think it worth her while to court his attention , if Katy were not present , for unless some one saw and felt her triumph it ceased directly to be one . 
On the whole Wilford was not well pleased with society as he found it this winter , and knowing where the trouble lay he resolved that Katy should no longer remain at home , growing pale and faded and losing her good looks . 
Wilford would not have confessed it , and perhaps was not himself aware of the fact , that Katy 's beauty was quite as dear to him as Katy herself . 
If she lost it her value was decreased accordingly , and so as a prudent husband it behooved him to see that what was so very precious was not unnecessarly thrown away . 
It did not take long for Katy to understand that her days of quiet were at an end , -- that neither crib nor cradle could avail her longer . 
Mrs. Kirby , selected from a host of applicants , was wholly competent for Baby Cameron , and Katy must throw aside the mother which sat so prettily upon her and become again the belle . 
It was a sad trial , but Katy knew that submission was the only alternative , and so when Mrs. Banker 's invitation came , she accepted it at once , but there was a sad look upon her face as she kissed her baby for the twentieth time ere going to her dressing maid . 
Never until this night had Helen realized how beautiful Katy was when in full evening dress , and her exclamations of delight brought a soft flush to Katy 's cheek , while she felt a thrill of the olden vanity as she saw herself once more arrayed in all her costly apparel . 
Helen did not wonder at Wilford 's desire to have Katy with him , and very proudly she watched her young sister as Esther twined the flowers in her hair and then brought out the ermine cloak she was to wear as a protection against the cold . 
Wilford was standing by her , making a few suggestions and expressing his approbation in a way which reminded Helen of that night before the marriage , when Katy 's dress had been condemned , and of that sadder , bitterer time when she had poured her tears like rain into that trunk returned . 
All she had thought of Wilford then was now more than confirmed , but he was kind to her and very proud of Katy , so she forced back her feelings of disquiet , which , however , were roused again when she saw the dark look on his face , as Katy , at the very last , ran to the nursery to kiss baby good-bye , sucing this time in waking it , as was proven by the cry which made Wilford scowl angrily and brought to his lips a word of rebuke for Katy 's childishness . 
As if the reappearance of Katy had awakened all that was weak and silly in Sybil 's nature , she again put forth her powers of attraction , but met only with defeat . 
Katy , and even Helen , was preferred before her , -- both belles of a different type ; but both winning golden laurels from those who hardly knew which to admire more -- Katy , with her pure , delicate beauty and charming simplicity , or Helen , with her attractive face , and sober , quiet manner . 
But Katy grew tired early . 
She could not endure what she once did ; and when she came to Wilford with a weary look upon her face , and asked him to go home , he did not refuse , though Mark , who was near , protested against their leaving so soon . 
She should die outright , she thought , and she pitied poor little Katy , who , having once returned to the world , seemed destined to remain there , in spite of her entreaties and the excuses she made for declining the invitations which poured in so fast . 
`` Baby was not well -- Baby needed her , '' was the plea with which she met Wilford 's arguments , until the mention of his child was sure to bring a scowl upon his face , and it became a question in Helen 's mind whether he would not be happier if Baby had never come between him and his ambition . 
To hear Katy 's charms extolled , and know that he was envied the possession of so rare a gem , feeling all the while sure of her faith , was Wilford 's great delight , and it is not strange that , without any very strong fatherly feeling or principle of right in that respect , he should be irritated by the little life so constantly interfering with his pleasure and so surely undermining Katy 's health . 
For Katy did not improve , as Wilford hoped she might ; and with his two hands he could span her slender waist , while the beautiful neck and shoulders were no longer worn uncovered , for Katy would not display her bones , whatever the fashion might be . 
`` It was the very best thing both for Katy and the child , and would obviate every difficulty . '' 
Next morning as she sometimes did when more than usually fatigued , Katy breakfasted in bed ; while Wilford 's face , as he sat opposite Helen at the table , had on it a look of quiet determination , such as she had rarely seen there before . 
He did not expect it to wear a look as frightened and hopeless as Katy 's did when he last saw it upon the pillow , for he knew how different the two sisters were , and much as he had affected to despise Helen Lennox , he was afraid of her now . 
It had never occurred to him before that he was somewhat uncomfortable in her presence -- that her searching brown eyes often held him in check ; but it came to him now , that his wife 's sister had a willalmost as firm as his own , and she was sure to take Katy 's part . 
He saw it in her face , even though she had no idea of what he meant to say . 
He must explain sometime , and so at last he continued : `` You must have seen how opposed Katy is to complying with my wishes , setting them at naught , when she knows how much pleasure she would give me by yielding as she used to do . '' 
`` I do n't know what you mean , '' Helen replied , `` unless it is her aversion to going out , as that , I think , is the only point where her obedience has not been absolute . '' 
Wilford did not like the words obedienceand absolute ; that is , he did not like the sound.Their definition suited him , but Helen 's enunciation was at fault , and he answered quickly , `` I do not require absolute obedience from Katy . 
I never did ; but in this matter to which you refer , I think she might consult my wishes as well as her own . 
There is no reason for her secluding herself in the nursery as she does . 
`` I do not believe Katy means to displease you , but she has conceived a strong aversion for festive scenes , and besides baby is not healthy , you know , and like all young mothers , she may be over-anxious , while I fancy she has not the fullest confidence in the nurse , and this may account for her unwillingness to leave the child with her . '' 
`` His mother had taken her from a genteel , respectable house in Bond street , and he paid her an enormous price , consequently she must be right ; '' and then came the story that his mother had decided that neither Katy nor baby would improve so long as they remained together ; that for both a separation was desirable ; that she had recommended sending the child into the country , where it would be better cared for than it could be at home with Katy constantly undoing all Mrs. Kirby had done , waking it from sleep whenever the fancy took her , and in short treating it much as she probably did her doll when she was a little girl . 
With the child away there would be nothing to prevent Katy 's going out again and getting back her good looks , which were somewhat impaired . 
Wilford 's compliment had failed , and more annoyed than before , he asked , not what Helen thought of the arrangement , but if she would influence Katy to act and think rationally upon it ; `` at least you will not make it worse , '' he said , and this time there was something deferential and pleading in his manner . 
Helen knew the matter was fixed , -- that neither Katy 's tears nor entreaties would avail to revoke the decision , and so , though her whole soul rose in indignation against a man who would deliberately send his nursing baby from his roof because it was in his way , and was robbing his bride 's cheek of its girlish bloom , she answered composedly , `` I will do what I can , but I must confess it seems to me an unnatural thing . 
Still he did not say so , and he tried to smile as he quitted the table and remarked to her , `` I hope to find Katy reconciled when I come home . 
I think I had better not go up to her again , so tell her I send a good-bye kiss by you . 
I leave her case in your hands . '' 
It was a far more difficult case than either he or Helen imagined , and the latter started back in alarm from the white face which greeted her view as she entered Katy 's room , and then with a moan hid itself in the pillow . 
`` It does not matter , '' Katy gasped . 
and she turned now partly towards Helen , who nodded affirmatively , while Katy continued , `` Had he taken a knife and cut a cruel gash it would not have hurt me half so badly . 
She was looking straight at Helen , who shivered as she met an expression so unlike Katy , and so like to that a hunted deer might wear if its offspring were in danger . 
she continued , shedding back with her thin hand the mass of tangled curls which had fallen about her eyes . 
There was a resentful gleam in the blue eyes usually so gentle , as Katy answered , `` Whomdo I mean ? 
Since Helen came to New York there had been so much else to talk about that Katy had said comparatively little of the Camerons . 
Now , however , there was no holding back on Katy 's part , and beginning with the first night of her arrival in New York she told what is already known to the reader , exonerating Wilford in word , but dealing out full justice to his mother and Juno , the former of whom controlled him so completely . 
`` I tried so hard to love her , '' Katy said , `` and if she had given me ever so little in return I would have been satisfied ; but she never did -- that is , when I hungered for it most , missing you at home , and the loving care which sheltered me in childhood . 
Helen asked , and Katy answered , `` Up the river , to a house which Father Cameron owns , and which is kept by a farmer 's family . 
Katy had never offered so violent opposition to any plan as she did now to that of sending her child away . 
`` I ca n't , I ca n't , '' she repeated constantly , and Mrs. Cameron 's call , made that afternoon with a view to reconcile the matter , only made it worse , so that Wilford , on his return at night , felt a pang of self-reproach as he saw the drooping figure holding his child upon its lap and singing its lullaby in a plaintive voice , which told how sore was its heart . 
On the contrary , he had made himself believe that he was acting only for the good of both mother and child ; but the sight of Katy touched him , and he might have given up the contest had not Helen unfortunately taken up the cudgels in Katy 's defence , neglecting to conceal the weapons , and so defeating her purpose . 
It was at the dinner from which Katy was absent that she ventured to speak , not askingthat the plan be given up , but speaking of it as an unnatural one , which seemed to her not only useless but cruel . 
Wilford did not tell her that her opinion was not desired , but his manner implied as much , and Helen felt the angry blood prickling through her veins as she listened to his reply , that it was neither unnatural nor cruel ; that many people did it , and his would not be an isolated case . 
Katy will not object to that . '' 
Helen knew that further argument was useless , and wished herself at home , where there were no willslike this , which , ignoring Katy 's tears and Katy 's pleading face , would not retract one iota , or even stoop to reason with the suffering mother , except to reiterate , `` It is only for your good , and every one with common sense will say so . '' 
Next morning Helen was surprised at Katy 's proposition to drive round to Fourth street , and call on Marian . 
`` I have a strong presentiment that she can do me good , '' Katy said . 
`` Shall you tell her ? '' 
Helen asked in some surprise ; and Katy replied , `` Perhaps I may , I 'll see . '' 
An hour later , and Katy , up in Marian 's room , sat listening intently while Marian spoke of a letter received a few days since from an old friend who had worked with her at Madam -- 's , and to whom she had been strongly attached , keeping up a correspondence with her after her marriage and removal to New London , in Connecticut , and whose little child had borne Marian 's name . 
That child , born two months before Katy 's , was dead , and the mother , finding her home so desolate , had written , beseeching Marian to come to her for the remainder of the winter . 
There was an eager look in Katy 's face , and her eyes danced with the new idea which had suddenly taken possession of her . 
She could nottrust baby with Kirby up the river , but she could trust her in New London with Mrs. Hubbell if Marian was there , and grasping the latter 's arm she exclaimed , `` Is Mrs. Hubbell poor ? 
In a few moments Marian had heard Katy 's trouble , and Katy 's wish that Mrs. Hubbell should take her child in place of the little one dead . 
Write to her , Marian , -- write to-day , -- now , before I go , '' Katy continued , clasping Marian 's hand , with an expression which , more than aught else , won Marian Hazleton 's consent to a plan which seemed so strange . 
`` Yes , I will write , '' she answered ; `` I will tell Amelia what you desire . '' 
This was all the encouragement she would give ; but it was enough to change the whole nature of Katy 's feelings , and her face looked bright and cheerful as she tripped down the stairway , talking to Helen of what seemed to both like a direct interposition of Providence , and what she was sure would please Wilford quite as well as the farm-house up the river . 
Nor was she wrong ; for glad of an opportunity to make some concessions , and still in the main have his own way , Wilford raised no objection to the plan as communicated to him by Katy , when , at an earlier hour than usual , he came home to dinner , and with the harmony of his household once more restored , felt himself a model husband , as he listened to Katy 's plan of sending baby to New London . 
On the whole , it might be better even than the farm-house up the river , he thought , for it was further away , and Katy could not be tiring herself with driving out every few days , and keeping herself constantly uneasy and excited . 
The distance between New York and New London was the best feature of the whole ; and he wondered Katy had not thought of it as an objection . 
But she had not , and but for the pain when she remembered the coming separation , she would have been very happy that evening , listening with Wilford and Helen to a new opera brought out for the first time in New York . 
Very differently from this was Marian 's evening passed , and on her face there was a look such as Katy 's had never worn , as she asked for guidance to choose the right , to lay all self aside , and if it were her duty , to care for the child she had never seen , but whose birth had stirred the pulsations of her heart and made the old wound bleed and throb with bitter anguish . 
And as she prayed there crept into her face a look which told that self was sacrificed at last , and Katy Cameron was safe with her . 
Mrs Hubbell was willing -- aye , more than that -- was glad to take the child , and the generous remuneration offered would make them so comfortable in their little cottage , she wrote to Marian , who hastened to confer by note with Katy , adding in a postscript , `` Is it still your wish that I should go ? 
It wasKaty 's wish , and she replied at once , going next to the nursery to talk with Mrs. Kirby . 
To this Katy assented , and as the answer returned to Mrs. Cameron 's letter was altogether favorable , it was decided that Mrs. Hubbell should come to the city at once for her little charge . 
In a week 's time she arrived , seeming everything Katy could ask for , and as Mrs. Cameron , too , approved her heartily as a modest , well spoken young woman , who knew her place , it was arranged that she should return home with her little charge on Saturday , thus giving Katy the benefit of Sunday in which `` to get over it and recover her usual spirits , '' Mrs. Cameron said . 
The fact that Marian was going to New London within a week after baby went , reconciled Katy to the plan , making her even cheerful during the last day of baby 's stay at home . 
But as the daylight waned and the night came on , a shadow began to steal across her face , and her step was slower as she went up the stairs to the nursery , while only herself that night could disrobe the little creature and hush it into sleep . 
`` Tis the last time , you know , '' she said to Kirby , who went out , leaving the young mother and child alone . 
Mournfully sad and sweet was the lullaby Katy sang , and Helen who , in the hall , was listening to the low , sad moaning , -- half prayer , half benediction , -- likened it to a farewell between the living and dead . 
Half an hour later , when she glanced into the room , lighted only by the moonbeams , baby was sleeping in her crib , whilst Katy knelt beside , her face buried in her hands , and her form quivering with the sobs she tried to smother as she softly prayed that her darling might come back again ; that God would keep the little child and forgive the erring mother who had sinned so deeply since the time she used to pray in her home among the hills of Massachusetts . 
It was Katy who made her baby ready , trusting her to no one else , and repelling with a kind of fierce decision all offers of assistance made either by Helen , Mrs. Cameron , Bell , or the nurse , who were present , while Katy 's hands drew on the little bright , soft socks of wool , tied the hood of satin and lace , and fastened the scarlet cloak , her tears falling fast as she met the loving , knowing look the baby was just learning to give her , half smiling , half cooing , as she bent her face down to it . 
`` Please all of you go out , '' she said , when baby was ready -- `` Wilford and all . 
They granted her request , but Wilford stood beside the open door , listening while the mother bade farewell to her baby . 
`` Darling , '' she murmured , `` what will poor Katy do when you are gone , or what will comfort her as you have done ? 
At that moment Wilford Cameron would have given half his fortune to have kept his child for Katy 's sake , but it was now too late ; the carriage was at the door , and Mrs. Hubbell was waiting in the hall for the little procession filing down the stairs . 
Mrs. Cameron and Bell , Wilford and Katy , who carried the baby herself , her face bent over it and her tears still dropping like rain . 
Still , now that the worst was over , he rather enjoyed it , for Katy was free from care ; there was nothing to hinder her gratifying his every wish , and with his spirits greatly enlivened as he reflected how satisfactory everything had been managed at the last , he proposed taking both Helen and Katy to the theatre that night . 
But Katy answered `` No , Wilford , not to-night ; it seems too much like baby 's funeral . 
So Katy had her way , and among the worshipers who next day knelt in Grace Church with words of prayer upon their lips , there was not one more in earnest than she whose only theme was , `` My child , my darling child . '' 
She did not get over it by Monday , as Mrs. Cameron had predicted . 
It had been there ever since , and Helen felt that by the pangs with which that look was born he was a better man , just as Katy was growing better for that hunger in her heart . 
Several dispositions the good old lady had mentally made of this property , sometimes dividing it equally between Helen and Katy , sometimes willing it all to the former , and again , when she thought of Mark Ray , leaving the interestof it to some missionary society in which she was interested . 
Letters there were from Helen , and sometimes one from Katy , but none from Wilford , and her days were passed in great perplexity and distress , until another idea took possession of her mind . 
She would go to New York herself ! 
She had never traveled over half a dozen miles in the cars , it was true , but it was time she had , and now that she had a new bonnet and shawl , she could go to Yorkas well as not ! 
Wholly useless were the expostulations of the family , for she would not listen to them , nor believe that she would not be welcome at that house on Madison Square , to which Mrs. Lennox had never been invited since Katy was fairly settled in it . 
Much at first had been said of her coming , and of the room she was to occupy ; but all that had ceased , and in the mother 's heart there had been a painful doubt as to the reason of the silence , until Helen 's letters enlightened her , telling her it was Wilford who had built so high a wall between Katy and her friends . 
Far better than she used , did Mrs. Lennox understand her son-in-law , and she shrank in horror from suffering her aunt to go where she would be so serious an annoyance , frankly telling her the reason for her objections , and asking if she wished to mortify the girls . 
As for the black silk and the new cap , they were carefully folded away , one in a box and the other in a satchel she carried on her arm , and in one compartment of which were sundry papers of fennel , caraway , and catnip , intended for Katy 's baby , and which could be sent to it from New York . 
There was also a package of dried plums and peaches for Katy herself , and a few cakes of yeast of her own make , better than any they had in the city ! 
Thus equipped she one morning took her seat in the Boston and New York train , which carried her swiftly on towards Springfield . 
But certain disagreeable remembrances of Aunt Hannah 's parting injunction , `` not to tell everybody in the cars that she was Katy 's aunt , '' kept her silent on that point , and so Lieutenant Bob Reynolds failed to be enlightened with regard to the relationship existing between the fastidious Wilford Cameron of Madison Square , and the quaint old lady whose very first act on entering the car had amused him vastly . 
Once she had seen Helen and Katy enter their carriage , which the colored coachman drove away , but she had never ventured to accost them . 
Katy would not have known her if she had , for the family had come to Silverton while she was at Canandaigua , and as , after her return to Silverton , until her marriage , Mattie had been in one of the Lawrence factories , they had never met . 
`` Did 'Til da know if Katy went to the opera now ? 
Did she s ` pose she would be there to-night ? 
She presumed Katy would be there , as it was a new opera . 
This part she did not like ; `` they mumbled their words so nobody could understand more than if they spoke a heathenish tongue , '' she thought , and she was beginning to yawn when a nudge from Mattie and a whisper , `` There they come , '' roused her from her stupor , and looking up she saw both Helen and Katy entering their box , and with them Mark Ray and Wilford Cameron . 
Very rapidly Katy 's eyes swept the house , running over the sea of heads below , but failing to see the figure which , half rising from its seat , stood gazing upon her , the tears running like rain over the upturned face , and the lips murmuring , `` Darling Katy ! 
It was all in vain that Mattie pulled her dress , bidding her sit down as people were staring at her . 
Aunt Betsy did not hear , and if she had she would scarcely have cared for those who , following her eyes , saw the beautiful young ladies , behind whom Wilford and Mark were standing , but never dreamed of associating them with the `` crazy thing '' who sank back at last into her seat , keeping her eyes still upon the box where Helen and Katy sat , their heads uncovered , and their cloaks falling off just enough to show the astonished woman that their necks were uncovered too , while Helen 's arms , raised to adjust her glass , were discovered to be in the same condition . 
Still , as she became more accustomed to it , and glanced at other full-dressed ladies , the first shock passed away , and she could calmly contemplate Katy 's dress , wondering what it cost , and then letting her eyes pass on to Helen , to whom Mark Ray seemed so lover-like that Aunt Betsy remembered her impressions when he stopped at Silverton , her heart swelling with pride as she thought of both the girls making out so well . 
`` Please not go ; I like the play to-night , '' Katy said ; but on Wilford 's face there was that look which never consulted Katy 's wishes , and so the two ladies tied on their cloaks , and just as the curtain rose in the last act , left their box , while Aunt Betsy looked wistfully after them , but did not suspect shewas the cause of their exit , and of Wilford 's perturbation . 
The shawl arranged , Aunt Betsy took her seat and turned her face fully toward him , while Wilford seized Katy 's glass and leveled it at her . 
`` Country cousins , of whom I have never heard , no doubt , '' and he ground his teeth together as with his next breath he suggested going home , carrying out his suggestion and hurrying both Helen and Katy to the carriage as if some horrible dragon had been on their track . 
That day they entertained a select dinner party , and as this was something in which Katy excelled , while Helen 's presence , instead of detracting from , would add greatly to the clat of the affair , Wilford had anticipated it with no small degree of complacency . 
`` She shall at least stay in her room , if I have to lock her in , '' he thought , as he went down to his office without kissing Katy or bidding her good-by . 
`` There 's no telling what Deacon Bannister would do -- send a subpnaafter me , for what I know , '' she thought , as she laid her tired head upon her pillow and went off into a weary state , half way between sleep and wakefulness , in which operas , play-actors , Katy in full dress , Helen and Mark Ray , choruses , music by the orchestra , to which she had been guilty of beating her foot , Deacon Bannister , and the whole offended brotherhood , with constable and subpnas , were pretty equally blended together . 
The sight of Katy had awakened all the olden intense love she had felt for her darling , and she could not wait much longer without seeing her . 
`` Hannah and Lucy , and amongst 'em , advised me not to come , '' she said to Mrs. Tubbs , `` and they hinted that I might not be wanted up there ; but now I 'm here I shall go , if I do n't stay more than an hour . '' 
Strange she never writ , nor Katy neither , '' Aunt Betsy exclaimed , while Mark , raised to an ecstatic state , replied , `` I refer to Dr. Grant . 
`` Why -- no -- indeed , '' was the response , and Mark could have hugged the good old lady , who continued in a confidential tone , `` I used to think they 'd make a good match ; but I 've gin that up , and I sometimes mistrust 't was Katy Morris wanted . 
So when she spoke of going up to Katy 's he set himself industriously at work to prevent it for that day at least . 
`` No , she might go back to-morrow , -- certainly the day after , '' Aunt Betsy replied , her voice trembling at this fresh impediment thrown in the way of her seeing Katy . 
This he proposed to his client ; assuring her of his mother 's entire willingness to receive her , and urging so many reasons why she should go there , instead of `` up to Katy 's , '' where they were in such confusion , that Aunt Betsy was at last persuaded , and was soon riding up town in a Twenty-third Street stage , with Mark Ray her vis--vis , and Mattie at her right . 
`` Was Katy 's house as fine as this ? '' 
Not exactly comprehending the nature of the difficulty , Mark suggested that she go without a cap until he could send for them ; but Aunt Betsy 's assertion that `` she was grayer than a rat , '' enlightened him with regard to her dilemma , and full permission was given for her `` to sit in her bonnet '' until such time as a messenger could go to the Bowery and back . 
`` She is unaccustomed to the city , but a particular friend of mine ; so see that you treat her with respect , '' was all the explanation he vouchsafed to the curious girl . 
Five hundred dollars seemed an enormous sum , but Aunt Betsy was learning not to say all she thought , and merely remarked that Katy had some diamonds too , which she presumed cost full as much as that . 
`` She should do very well alone , '' she said ; `` she could read her Bible , and if she got too tired , go to bed , '' and with a good-bye she sent them away , after saying to Mrs. Banker , `` Maybe you ai n't the kissin ' kind , but if you be , I wish you would kiss Katy once for me . '' 
`` I wo n't go near Katy , '' she continued ; `` it would only mortify her , and I do n't want to make her trouble . 
There 's Miss Smith , in Springfield , will keep me over night , and Katy sha n't be bothered . '' 
She had said to Katy that she was going out , and could not tell just when she might return , and as Katy never questioned her acts , while Wilford was too intent upon his own miserable thoughts as to `` where Aunt Betsy could be , or what had befallen her , '' to heed any one else , no inquiries were made , and no obstacles put in the way of her going direct to Mrs. Banker 's , where Mark met her himself , holding her cold hand until he led her to the fire and placed her in a chair . 
He knew she would rather meet her aunt alone , and so when he heard her step in the hall he left the room , holding the door for Aunt Betsy , who wept like a little child at the sight of Helen , accusing herself of being a fool , who ought to be shut up in an insane asylum , but persisting in saying she was going home that very day without seeing Katy at all . 
Then she told Helen all she did not already know of her trip to New York , her visit to the opera , her staying with the Tubbses , and her meeting with Mark , the best young chap she ever saw , not even excepting Morris . 
`` If he was my own son he could n't be kinder , '' she added , `` and I mistrust he hopes to be my nephew . 
It was a long drive they took , and Aunt Betsy saw so much that her brain grew giddy , and she was glad when they started for the depot , taking Madison Square on the way , and passing Katy 's house . 
`` You 'll be home in April , and may-be Katy 'll come too , '' she whispered as she kissed Helen good-bye , and shook hands with Mattie Tubbs , charging her again never to let the folks in Silverton know that `` Betsy Barlow had been seen at a play-house . '' 
Katy did not ask where Helen had been , for she was wholly absorbed in Marian Hazelton 's letter , telling how fast the baby improved , how pretty it was growing , and how fond both she and Mrs. Hubbell were of it , loving it almost as well as if it were their own . 
`` I know now it was best for it to go , but it was hard at first , '' Katy said , putting the letter away , and sighing wearily as she missed the clasp of the little arms and touch of the baby lips . 
Several times Helen was tempted to tell her of Aunt Betsy 's visit , but decided finally not to do so , and Katy never knew what it was which for many days made Wilford so nervous and uneasy , starting at every sudden ring , going often to the window , and looking out into the street as if expecting some one , while he grew strangely anxious for news from Silverton , asking when Katy had heard from home , and why she did not write . 
One there was , however , who knew , and who enjoyed watching Wilford , and guessing just how his anxiety grew as day after day went by ; and she neither came nor was heard from in any way , for Helen did not show the letter apprising her of Aunt Betsy 's safe arrival home , and so all in Wilford 's mind was vague conjecture . 
Perhaps with Katy not won I might do the same . 
She was ; and handing the girl the note , Mark ran down the steps , while the servant carried the missive to the library , where upon the table lay other letters received that morning , and as yet unopened ; for Katy was very busy , and Helen was dressing to go out with Juno Cameron , who had graciously asked her to drive with her and look at a picture she had set her heart on having . 
This seemed a very clever plan , and with her spirits quite elated , Juno drove round with Helen , finding no one in the parlor below , and felicitating herself upon the fact that Helen left her alone while she run up to Katy . 
The letter was lost , and in the utmost consternation Juno returned to the parlor , appearing so abstracted as scarcely to be civil when Katy came down to see her ; asking if she was going that night to Sybil Grandon 's , and talking of the dreadful war , which she hoped would not be a war after all . 
Had the latter known of the loving words sent from the true heart which longed for some word of hers to lighten the long march and beguile the tedious days of absence , she would not have said to Katy , when asked if she was going to Mrs. Grandon 's , `` Oh , no ; please do n't urge me . 
Katy would not insist , and so went alone with Wilford to the entertainment , given to a few young men who seemed as heroes then , when the full meaning of that word had not been exemplified , as it has been since in the life so cheerfully laid down , and the heart 's blood poured so freely , by the tens of thousands who have won a martyr 's and a hero 's name . 
With a feeling of chill despair , Mark listened while Katy explained to Mrs. Grandon , that her sister had fully intended coming in the morning , but had suddenly changed her mind and begged to be excused . 
This was more than Mark could bear , and at an early hour he left the house , bidding Katy good-bye in the hall , and telling her he probably should not see her again , as he would not have time to call . 
`` Not call to say good-bye to Helen , '' Katy exclaimed . 
Old Whitey , by the hitching-post , was munching at his oats and glancing occasionally at the covered buggy standing on the green sward , fresh and clean as water from the pond could make it ; the harness , lying upon a rock , where Katy used to feed the sheep with salt , and the whip standing upright in its socket , were waiting for the deacon , who was donning his best suit of clothes , even to a stiff shirt collar which almost cut his ears , his face shining with anticipations which he knew would be realized . 
Katy was really coming home , and in proof thereof there were behind the house and barn piles of rubbish , lath and plaster , mouldy paper and broken bricks , the tokens and remains of the repairing process , which for so long a time had made the farm-house a scene of dire confusion , driving its inmates nearly distracted , except when they remembered for whose sake they endured so much , inhaling clouds of lime , stepping over heaps of mortar , tearing their dress skirts on sundry nails projecting from every conceivable quarter , and wondering the while if the masons ever would finish or the carpenters be gone . 
As a condition on which Katy might be permitted to come home , Wilford had stipulated an improvement in the interior arrangement of the house , offering to bear the expense even to the furnishing of the rooms . 
`` Anything to get Katy home , '' she said , and so the chimney was torn away , a window was cut here and an addition made there , until the house was really improved with its pleasant , modern parlor and the large airy bedroom , with bathing-room attached , the whole the idea of Wilford , who graciously deigned to come out once or twice from New London , where he was spending a few weeks , to superintend the work and suggest how it should be done . 
At least she would have been if Morris had not seemed so off , as she expressed it , taking but little interest in the preparations and evincing no pleasure at Katy 's expected visit . 
He had been polite to Wilford , had kept him at Linwood , taking him to and from the depot , but even Wilford had thought him changed , telling Katy how very sober and grave he had become , rarely smiling , and not seeming to care to talk unless it were about his profession or on some religious topic . 
The wound which in most hearts would have healed by this time , had grown deeper with each succeeding year , while from all he heard he felt sure that Katy 's marriage was a sad mistake , wishing sometimes that he had spoken , and so perhaps have saved her from the life in which she could not be wholly free . 
`` She would be happier with me , '' he had said , with a sad smile to Helen , when she told him of some things which she had not mentioned elsewhere , and there were great tears in Morris 's eyes , when Helen spoke of Katy 's distress , and the look which came into her face when baby was taken away . 
But the deep waters were always forded safely , and Morris 's faith in God prevailed , so that only a dull heavy pain remained , with the consciousness that it was no sin to remember Katy as she was remembered now . 
Oh how he longed to see her , and yet how he dreaded it , lest poor weak human flesh should prove inadequate to the sight . 
But she was coming home ; Providence had ordered that and he accepted it , looking eagerly for the time , but repressing his eagerness , so that not even Helen suspected how impatient he was for the day of her return . 
Country air and country nursing had wrought wonders in the baby , which had grown so beautiful and bright that it was no longer in Wilford 's way save as it took too much of Katy 's time , and made her care less for the gay crowd at the hotel . 
Marian was working at her trade , and never came to the hotel except one day when Wilford was in New York , but that day sufficed for Katy to know that after herself it was Marian whom baby loved the best -- Marian , who cared for it even more than Mrs. Hubbell . 
And Katy was glad to have it so , especially after Wilford and his mother decided that she must leave the child in New London while she made the visit to Silverton . 
Wilford did not like her taking so much care of it as she was inclined to do . 
It had grown too heavy for her to lift ; it was better with Mrs. Hubbell , he said and so to the inmates of the farm-house Katy wrote that baby was not coming . 
They were bitterly disappointed , for Katy 's baby had been anticipated quite as much as Katy herself , and Aunt Betsy had brought from the wood-shed chamber a cradle which nearly forty years before had rocked the deacon 's only child , the little boy , who died just as he had learned to lisp his mother 's name . 
As a memento of those days the cradle had been kept , Katy using it sometimes for her kittens and her dolls , until she grew too old for that , when it was put away beneath the eaves whence Aunt Betsy dragged it , scouring it with soap and sand , until it was white as snow . 
But it would not be needed , and with a sigh the old lady carried it back , thinking `` things had come to a pretty pass when a woman who could dance and carouse till twelve o'clock at night was too weakly to take care of her child , '' and feeling a very little awe of Katy who must have grown so fine a lady . 
But all this passed away as the time drew near when Katy was to come , and no one seemed happier than Aunt Betsy on the morning when Uncle Ephraim drove from the door , setting old Whitey into a canter , which , by the time the `` race '' was reached , had become a rapid trot , the old man holding up his reins and looking proudly at the oat-fed animal , speeding along so fast . 
He did not have long to wait this time , for the train soon came rolling across the meadow , and while his head was turned towards the car where he fancied she might be , a pair of arms was thrown impetuously round his neck , and a little figure , standing on tiptoe , almost pulled him down in its attempts to kiss him . 
a young voice cried ; but the words the deacon would have spoken were smothered by the kisses pressed upon his lips , kisses which only came to an end when a voice said rather reprovingly , `` There , Katy , that will do . 
IN his presence the deacon was not quite natural , but he lifted in his arms his `` little Katy-did , '' and looked straight into her face , where there were as yet no real lines of care , only shadows , which told that in some respects she was not the same Katy he had parted with two years before . 
There was a good deal of the cityabout her dress and style ; and the deacon felt a little overawed at first ; but this wore off as , on their way to the farm-house , she talked to him in her old , loving manner , and asked questions about the people he supposed she had forgotten , nodding to everybody she met , whether she knew them or not , and at last , as the old house came in sight , hiding her face in a gush of happy tears upon his neck . 
Scarcely waiting for old Whitey to stop , but with one leap clearing the wheel , she threw herself into the midst of the women waiting on the door step to meet her . 
It was a joyful meeting , and when the first excitement was over , Katy inspected the improvements , praising them all and congratulating herself upon the nice time she was to have . 
`` You do n't know what a luxury it is to feel that I can rest , '' she said to Helen . 
`` Yes , some , '' Katy replied ; `` but there were dances every night , or sails upon the bay , and I had to go , for many of our friends were there , and Wilford was not willing for me to be quiet . '' 
This , then , was the reason why Katy came home so weary and pale , and craving so much the rest she had not had in more than two years . 
But she would get it now , and before the first dinner was eaten some of her old color came stealing back to her cheeks , and her eyes began to dance just as they used to do , while her merry voice rang out in silvery peals at Aunt Betsy 's quaint remarks , which struck her so forcibly from not having heard them for so long a time . 
She did not do this now , for there were none to curl ; but she strung upon a thread the delicate petals of the phlox growing by the door , and then bound it as a crown about the head of her mother , who could not quite recognize her Katy in the elegant Mrs. Wilford Cameron , with rustling silk , and diamonds flashing on her hands every time they moved . 
But when she saw her racing with the old brown goat and its little kid out in the apple orchard , her head uncovered , and her bright curls blowing about her face , the feeling disappeared , and she felt that Katy had indeed come back again . 
Katy had inquired for Morris immediately after her arrival , but in her excitement she had forgotten him again , until tea was over , when , just as she had done on the day of her return from Canandaigua , she took her hat and started on the well-worn path toward Linwood . 
Airily she tripped along , her light plaid silk gleaming through the deep green of the trees and revealing her coming to the tired man sitting upon a little rustic seat , beneath a chestnut tree , where he once had sat with Katy , and extracted a cruelsliver from her hand , kissing the place to make it well as she told him to . 
She was a child then , a little girl of twelve , and he was twenty , but the sight of her pure face lifted confidingly to his had stirred his heart as no other face had stirred it since , making him look forward to a time when the hand he kissed would be his own , and his the fairy form he watched so carefully as it expanded day by day into the perfect woman . 
`` Yes , very glad , '' he answered , and drawing her down beside him , he kissed her twice , but so gravely , that Katy was not satisfied at all , and tears gathered in her eyes as she tried to think what ailed Morris . 
He was very thin , and there were a few white hairs about his temples , so that , though four years younger than her husband , he seemed to her much older , quite grandfatherly in fact , and this accounted for the liberties she took , asking what was the matter , and trying to make him like her again , by assuring him that she was not as vain and foolish as he might suppose from what Helen had probably told him of her life since leaving Silverton . 
It was well she spoke that name , for Morris could not have borne much more ; but the mention of her child quieted him at once , so that he could calmly tell her she wasthe same to him she always had been , while with his next breath he asked , `` Where is your baby , Katy ? '' 
Katy said ; and as if that remembrance made him older than the hills , she nestled her curly head against his shoulder , while she told him of her bright-eyed darling , and as she talked , the mother-love which spread itself over her girlish face made it more beautiful than anything Morris had ever seen . 
`` Surely an angel 's countenance can not be fairer , purer than hers , '' he thought , as she talked of the only thing which had a power to separate her from him , making her seem as a friend , or at most as a beloved sister . 
A long time they talked together , and the sun was setting ere Morris rose , suggesting that she go home , as the night dew would soon be falling . 
`` And you are not as strong as you once were , '' he added , pulling her shawl around her shoulders with careful solicitude , and thinking how slender she had become . 
and feeling a pang of fear when , as he left them after nine o'clock , she heard her mother say that he had not appeared so natural since Katy went away as he had done that night . 
Knowing what she did , Helen trembled for Morris , with this terrible temptation before him , and Morris trembled for himself as he went back the lonely path , and stopped again beneath the chestnut tree where he had so lately sat with Katy . 
There was a great fear at his heart , and it found utterance in words as kneeling by the rustic bench with only the lonely night around him and the green boughs over head , he asked that he might be kept from sin , both in thought and deed , and be to Katy Cameron just what she took him for , her friend and elder brother . 
And God , who knew the sincerity of the heart thus pleading before him , heard and answered the prayer , so that after that first night of trial Morris could look on Katy without a wish that she were otherwise than Wilford Cameron 's wife and the mother of his child . 
He was happier because of her being at the farm-house , though he did not go there one half as often as she came to him . 
Those September days were happy ones to Katy , who became a child again -- a petted , spoiled child , whom every one caressed and suffered to have her way . 
He was so glad to have again his `` Katy-did , '' who went with him to the fields , waiting patiently till his work was done , and telling him of all the wondrous things she saw abroad , but speaking little of her city life . 
That was something she did not care to talk about , and but for Wilford 's letters , and the frequent mention of baby , the deacon could easily have imagined that Katy had never left him . 
Still there was one drawback to Katy 's happiness . 
She missed her child , mourning for it so much that her family , quite as anxious as herself to see it , suggested her sending for it . 
To this plan Katy listened more willingly from the fact that Wilford had gone West , and the greater the distance between them the more she dared to do . 
And so Marian Hazelton was one day startled at the sudden appearance at the cottage of Katy , who had come to take her and baby to Silverton . 
There was no resisting the vehemence of Katy 's arguments , and before the next day 's sunsetting , the farm-house , usually so quiet and orderly , had been turned into one general nursery , where Baby Cameron reigned supreme , screaming with delight at the tinware which Aunt Betsy brought out , from the cake-cutter to the dipper , the little creature beating a noisy tattoo upon the latter with an iron spoon , and then for diversion burying its fat dimpled hands in Uncle Ephraim 's long white hair , for the old man went down upon all fours to do his great-grand niece homage . 
That night Morris came up , stopping suddenly as a loud baby laugh reached him , even across the orchard , and leaning for a moment against the wall , while he tried to prepare himself for the shock it would be to see Katy 's child , and hold it in his arms , as he knew he must , or the mother be aggrieved . 
`` Oh , Morris , '' Katy cried , `` Baby can almost walk , Marian has taken so much pains , and she can say ` papa . ' 
Baby had turned her head by this time , her ear caught by the whistle and her eye arrested by something in Morris which fascinated her gaze . 
Perhaps she thought of Wilford , of whom she had been very fond , for she pushed her chair towards him and then held up her fat arms for him to take her . 
Never was mother prouder than Katy during the first few days succeeding baby 's arrival , while the family seemed to tread on air , so swiftly the time went by with that active little life in their midst , stirring them up so constantly , putting to rout all their rules of order and keeping their house in a state of delightful confusion . 
`` It was altogether too forward for this world , '' Aunt Betsy often said , shaking her head ominously , but not really meaning what she predicted , even when for a few days it did not seem as bright as usual , but lay quietly in Katy 's lap , a blue look about the mouth and a flush upon its cheeks , which neither Morris nor Marian liked . 
More accustomed to children than the other members of the family , they both watched it closely , Morris coming over twice one day , and the last time he came regarding Katy with a look as if he would fain ward off from her some evil which he feared . 
she asked . 
and a great crushing fear came upon her as she waited for his answer . 
There was a low shriek and baby opened its heavy lids and moaned , while Helen came at once to Katy , who was holding her hand upon her heart as if the pain had entered there . 
All night the light burned in the farm-house , where there were anxious , troubled faces , Katy bending constantly over her darling , and even amid her terrible anxiety , dreading Wilford 's displeasure when he should hear what she had done and its possible result . 
She did not believe as yet that her child would die ; but she suffered acutely , watching for the early dawn when Morris had said he would be there , and when at last he came , begging of him to leave his other patients and care only for baby . 
Morris asked , and Katy blushed for her selfishness when she heard how many were sick and dying around them . 
`` I will spend every leisure moment here , '' he said , leaving his directions with Marian and then hurrying away without a word of hope for the child , which grew worse so fast that when the night shut down again it lay upon a pillow , its blue eyes closed and its head thrown back , while its sad moanings could only be hushed by carrying it in one 's arms about the room , a task which Katy could not do . 
She had tried it at first , refusing all their offers with the reply , `` Baby is mine , and shall I not carry her ? '' 
But the feeble strength gave out , the limbs began to totter , and staggering backward she cried , `` Somebody must take her . '' 
An hour later and Morris came , relieving Marian of her burden , which he carried in his own arms , while he strove to comfort Katy , who , crouching by the empty crib , was sitting motionless in a kind of dumb despair , all hope crushed out by his answer to her entreaties that he would tell her the truth , and keep nothing back . 
`` I think your baby will die , '' he said to her very gently , pausing a moment in awe of the white face , whose expression terrified him , it was so full of agony . 
Bowing her head upon her hands , poor Katy whispered sadly , `` God must not take my baby . 
She was praying herself now , and Morris 's broad chest heaved as he glanced at her kneeling figure , and then at the death-like face upon the pillow , with the pinched look about the nose and lips , which to his practiced eye was a harbinger of death . 
`` It 's father should be here , '' he thought , and when Katy lifted up her head again he asked if she was sure her husband had not yet returned from Minnesota . 
`` Yes , sure -- that is , I think he has not , '' was Katy 's answer , a chill creeping over her at the thought of meeting Wilford , and giving him his daughter dead . 
`` Yes , that will be best , '' was the reply , spoken so mournfully that Morris stopped in front of Katy , and tried to reason with her . 
But Katy would not listen , and only answered that hedid not know , he could not feel , he never had been tried . 
`` Perhaps not , '' Morris said ; `` but Heaven is my witness , Katy , that if I could save you this pain by giving up my life for baby 's I would do it willingly ; but God does not give us our choice . 
For a moment Katy was silent ; then , as a new idea took possession of her mind , she sprang to Morris 's side and seizing his arm , demanded , `` Can an unbaptized child be saved ? '' 
`` We nowhere read that baptism is a saving ordinance , '' was Morris 's answer ; while Katy continued , `` but doyou believe they will be saved ? '' 
`` Yes , I do , '' was the decided response , which , however , did not ease Katy 's mind , and she moaned on , `` A child of heathen parents may , but Iknew better . 
Eagerly Katy seized upon that idea , thinking more of the sign , the water , than the name , which scarcely occupied her thoughts at all . 
It did not matter what the child was called , so that it became one of the little ones in glory , and with a calmer , quieter demeanor than she had shown that day , she saw Morris depart at a late hour ; and then turning to the child which Uncle Ephraim was holding , kissed it lovingly , whispering as she did so , `` Baby shall be baptized -- baby shall have the sign . '' 
All this Morris had communicated to Katy , who listened in a kind of stupor , gasping for breath , when she heard that Wilford would soon be there , and moaning `` that will be too late , '' when told that the baptism could not take place till night . 
Then kneeling by the crib where the child was lying , she fastened her great , sad blue eyes upon the pallid face with an earnestness as if thus she would hold till nightfall the life flickering so faintly and seeming so nearly finished . 
Once indeed , as the hours crept on to noon and Katy bent over it so that her curls swept its face , it seemed to know her , and the little wasted hand was uplifted and rested on her cheek with the same caressing motion it had been wont to use in health . 
Then hope whispered that it might live , and with a great cry of joy Katy sobbed , `` She knows me , Morris -- mother , see ; she knows me . 
But the dull stupor which succeeded swept all hope away , and again Katy resumed her post , watching first her dying child , and then the long hands of the clock which crept on so slowly , pointing to only two when she thought it must be five . 
None could answer that last question -- they could only wait and pray ; and as they waited the warm September sun neared the western sky till its yellow beams came stealing through the window and across the floor to where Katy sat watching its onward progress , and looking sometimes out upon the hills where the purplish autumnal haze was lying just as she once loved to see it . 
But she did not heed it now , nor care how bright the day with the flitting shadows dancing on the grass , the tall flowers growing by the door , and old Whitey standing by the gate , his head stretched towards the house in a kind of dreamy , listening attitude , as if he , too , knew of the great sorrow hastening on so fast . 
The others saw all this , and it made their hearts ache more as they thought of the beautiful little child going from their midst when they wished so much to keep her . 
Katy had only one idea , and that was of the child , growing very restless now , and throwing up its arms as if in pain . 
It was striking five , and with each stroke the dying baby moaned , while Katy strained her ear to catch the sound of horses ' hoofs hurrying up the road . 
Mrs. Lennox had questioned Helen about the name , and Helen had answered , `` Katy knows , I presume . 
It does not matter , '' but no one had spoken directly to Katy , who had scarcely given it a thought , caring more for the rite she had deferred so long . 
`` He must hasten , '' she said to Morris , her eyes fixed upon the panting child she had lifted to her own lap , and thus adjured the clergyman failed to make the usual inquiry concerning the name he was to give . 
Calm and white as a marble statue , Marian Hazelton glided to the back of Katy 's chair , and pressing both her hands upon it , leaned over Katy so that her eyes , too , were fixed upon the little face , from which they never turned but once , and that when the clergyman 's voice was heard asking for a name.There was an instant 's silence , and Katy 's lips began to move , when one of Marian 's hands was laid upon her head , while the other took in its own the limp , white baby fingers , and Marian 's voice was very steady in its tone as it said , `` Genevra . '' 
`` Yes , Genevra , '' Katy whispered , and the solemn words were heard , `` Genevra , I baptize thee in the name of the Father , the Son , and the Holy Ghost . '' 
Then the hand fell back , down upon Marian 's , the soft eyes closed , the limbs grew rigid , the shadow of death grew deeper , and while the prayer was said , and Marian 's tears fell with Katy 's upon the brow where the baptismal waters were not dried , the angel came , and when the prayer was ended , Morris , who knew what the rest did not , took the lifeless form from Katy 's lap , and whispered to her gently , `` Katy , your baby is dead ! '' 
An hour later , and the sweet little creature , which had been a sunbeam in that house for a few happy days , lay upon the bed where Katy said it must be laid ; its form shrouded in the christening robe which grandma Cameron had bought , flowers upon its pillow , flowers upon its bosom , flowers in its hands , which Marian had put there ; for Marian 's was the mind which thought of everything concerning the dead child ; and Helen , as she watched her , wondered at the mighty love which showed itself in every lineament of her face , the blue veins swelling in her forehead , her eyes bloodshot , and her lips shut firmly together , as if it were by mere strength of will that she kept back the scalding tears as she dressed the little Genevra.They spoke of that name in the kitchen when the first great shock was over , and Helen explained why it had been Katy 's choice . 
It was Morris 's task to comfort poor , stricken Katy , telling her of the blessed Saviour who loved the little children while here on the earth , and to whom her darling had surely gone . 
But Katy was the mother , and human love could not so soon submit , but went out after the lost one with a piteous , agonizing wail . 
I know she is safe , but I want her back . 
She was my life -- all I had to love , '' Katy moaned , rocking to and fro in this her first hour of bereavement , `` and Wilford will blame me so much for bringing my baby here to die . 
I would give my life for hers , if like her I was ready , '' and into Katy 's face there came a look of fear which Morris failed to understand , not knowing Wilford as well as Katy knew him . 
There could be no mistake , and Wilford 's face grew dark , for he guessed the truth , censuring Katy much , but censuring her family more . 
They of course had encouraged her in the plan of taking her child from New London , where it was doing so well , and this was the result . 
`` Had Katy obeyed meit would not have happened , '' he said , pacing up and down the parlor and preparing to say more , when Bell came to Katy 's aid , and lighting upon him , asked what he meant by blaming his wife so much . 
First you were vexed with Katy because it was not a boy , as if she were to blame ; then you did not like it because it was not more promising and fair ; next it was in your way , and so you sent it off , never considering Katy any more than if she were a more automaton . 
Then you must needs forbid her taking it home to her own family , as if they had no interest in it . 
Katy had a right to take her own child where she pleased , and you are not a man if you censure her for it , as I see in your eyes you mean to do . 
Upon the door-step Bell sat down , crying quietly , for she had loved the child , and she listened anxiously while Morris repeated the particulars of its illness and then spoke of Katy 's reproaching herself so bitterly for having brought it from New London . 
`` She seems entirely crushed , '' he continued , when they were driving towards the farm-house . 
`` For a few hours I trembled for her reason , while the fear that you might reproach her added much to the poignancy of her grief . '' 
It was Bell who spoke first , Bell who said impulsively , `` Poor Katy , I knew she would feel so , but it is unnecessary , for none but a savagewould reproach her now , even if she were in fault . '' 
Morris blessed Bell Cameron in his heart , knowing how much influence her words would have upon her brother , who brushed away the first tear he had shed , and tried to say that `` of course she was not to blame . '' 
They were in sight of the farm-house now , and Bell , with her city ideas , was looking curiously at it , mentally pronouncing it a nicer , pleasanter place than she had supposed . 
In the wood-shed door Uncle Ephraim sat smoking his clay pipe and likening the feathery waves which curled above his head to the little soul so recently gone upward , while by his side , upon a log of wood , holding a pan of the luscious peaches she was slicing up for tea , sat a woman whom Bell knew at once for Aunt Betsy Barlow , and who , pan in hand , came forward to meet her , curtsying very low when introduced by Morris , and asking to be excused from shaking hands , inasmuch as hers were not fit to be touched . 
`` Where is Katy ? '' 
`` She is sleeping for the first time since the baby died . 
She is in here with the child . 
She will stay nowhere else , '' Helen said , opening the door of the bedroom and motioning Wilford in . 
There were flowers upon its pillow , flowers around its head , flowers upon its shroud , flowers everywhere , and itself the fairest flower of all , Wilford thought , as he stood gazing at it and then let his eye move on to where poor , tired , worn-out Katy had crept up so close beside it that her breath touched the marble cheek and her own disordered hair rested upon the pillow of her child . 
Even in her sleep her tears kept dropping and the pale lips quivered in a grieved , touching way . 
He could hear the ticking of his watch and the beating of his heart as he waited for the first sound which should herald 's Katy 's waking . 
Suddenly there was a low , gasping moan , and Katy 's eyes unclosed and rested on her husband . 
He was bending over her in an instant , and her arms were round his neck , while she said to him so sadly , `` Our baby is dead -- you 've nobody left but me ; and oh ! 
I did not think she 'd die . 
I 'd give my life for hers if that would bring her back . 
Would you rather it was me lying as baby lies , and she here in your arms ? '' 
`` No , Katy , '' Wilford answered , and by his voice Katy knew that she was wholly forgiven , crying on his neck in a plaintive , piteous way , while Wilford soothed and pitied and caressed , feeling subdued and humbled , and we must confess it , feeling too how very good and generous he was to be thus forbearing , when but for Katy 's act of disobedience they might not now be childless ! 
With a great gush of tears Bell Cameron bent over the little form , and then enfolded Katy in a more loving embrace than she had ever given her before ; but whatever she might have said was prevented by the arrival of the coffin , and the confusion which followed . 
`` Do just as Katy prefers , '' was Bell 's reply , as she led him to the coffin and pointed to the name : `` Little Genevra Cameron , aged nine months and twenty days . '' 
That was Katy 's choice , I understand , '' Morris replied , and Wilford bowed his head , wishing the Genevraacross the sea might know that his child bore her name . 
`` Perhaps she does , '' he thought , and his heart grew warm with the fancy that possibly in that other world , whose existence he never really doubted , the Genevra he had wronged would care for his child , if children there need care . 
`` She will know it is mine at least , '' he said , and with a thoughtful face he went in quest of Katy , whom he found sobbing by the side of the mourning garments just sent in for her inspection . 
It would not become Katy , he feared , and it would be an unanswerable reason for her remaining closely home for the entire winter . 
he asked , lifting the crape veil and dropping it again with an impatient gesture as Helen replied , `` It is Katy 's mourning veil . '' 
Contrary to his expectations , black was becoming to Katy , who looked like a pure white lily , as , leaning on p591-278 Wilford 's arm next day , she stood by the grave where they were burying her child . 
Wilford had spoken to her of Greenwood , but she had begged so hard that he had given up that idea , suggesting next , as more in accordance with city custom , that she remain at home while heonly followed to the grave ; but from this Katy recoiled in such distress that he gave that up too , and bore , magnanimously as he thought , the sight of all the Barlows standing around that grave , alike mourners with himself , and all a right to be there . 
`` She was not going that day , '' she said , point blank , and as Katy too had asked to stay a little longer , Wilford was compelled to yield , and taking his hat sauntered off toward Linwood ; while Katy went listlessly into the kitchen , where Bell Cameron sat , her tongue moving much faster than her hands , which pared so slowly and cut away so much of the juicy pulp , besides making so frequent journeys to her mouth , that Auut Betsy looked in alarm at the rapidly disappearing fruit , wishing to herself that `` Miss Camern had not ` listed . '' 
Bell exclaimed , forgetting in her astonishment to carry to her mouth the luscious half peach she had intended for that purpose , and dropping it untasted into the pan , while Katy , who had been listening with considerable interest , came quickly forward saying , `` You , Aunt Betsy ! 
It could not be kept back and , unmindful of Bell , Helen explained to Katy as well as she could the circumstances of Aunt Betsy 's visit to New York the previous winter . 
`` And she never let me know it , or come to see me , because -- because -- '' Katy hesitated , and looked at Bell , who said , pertly , `` Because Will is so abominably proud , and would have made such a fuss . 
Do n't spoil a story for relation 's , sake , I beg , '' and the young lady laughed good humoredly , restoring peace to all save Katy , whose face wore a troubled look , and who soon stole away to her mother , whom she questioned further with regard to a circumstance which seemed so mysterious to her . 
`` Miss Barlow , '' Bell said , when Katy was gone , `` you will forgive me for repeating that story as I did . 
Bell was very earnest , and her eyes looked pleadingly upon Aunt Betsy , who answered her back , `` There 's nothing to forgive . 
`` Perhaps Bell will do it without my asking , '' she thought , and this hope did much toward keeping her spirits up on that last day of Katy 's stay at home , for she was going back in the morning . 
They did not see Marian Hazelton again , and Katy wondered at it , deciding that in some things Marian was very peculiar , while Wilford and Bell were disappointed , as both had a desire to meet and converse with one who had been so like a second mother to the little dead Genevra . 
Wilford spoke of his child now as Genevra , but to Katy it was Baby still ; and , with choking sobs and passionate tears , she bade good-bye to the little mound underneath which it was lying , and then went back to New York . 
KATY was very unhappy in her city home , and the world , as she looked upon it , seemed utterly cheerless . 
After the first few days , during which he was all kindness and devotion , he did not try to comfort her , but seemed irritated that she should mourn so deeply for the child which , but for her indiscretion , might have been living still . 
At last Mrs. Cameron brought her influence to bear upon her daughter-in-law , trying to rouse her to something like her olden interst in the world ; but all to no effect , and matters grew constantly worse , as Wilford thought Katy unreasonable and selfish , while Katy tried hard not to think him harsh in his judgment of her , and exacting in his requirements . 
`` Perhaps she was the one most in fault ; it could not be pleasant for him to see her so entirely changed from what she used to be , '' she thought , one morning late in November , when her husband had just left her with an angry frown upon his face and reproachful words upon his lips . 
Father Cameron and his daughters were out of town , and Mrs. Cameron , had asked Wilford and Katy to dine with her . 
But Katy did not wish to go , and Wilford had left her in anger , saying `` she could suit herself , but he should go at all events . '' 
Left alone , Katy began to feel that she had done wrong in declining the invitation . 
Surely she could go there , and the echo of the bangwith which Wilford had closed the street door was still vibrating in her ear , when her resolution began to give way , and while Wilford was riding moodily down town , thinking harsh things against her , she was meditating what she thought might be an agreeable surprise . 
She would go round and meet him at dinner , trying to appear as much like her old self as she could , and so atone for anything which had hitherto been wrong in her demeanor . 
At the door there was a ring , and Esther brought a note to Katy , who read as follows : Dear Katy : -- I have been suddenly called to leave the city on business , which will probably detain me for three days or more , and as I must go on the night train , I wish Esther to have my portmanteau ready with whatever I may need for the journey . 
Katy was glad now that she had decided to meet him at his mother 's , as the knowing she had pleased him would make the time of his absence more endurable , and after seeing that everything was ready for him she stepped with a comparatively light heart into her carriage , and was driven to No . 
`` Never mind , '' Katy answered ; `` I want to surprise them , so please do n't tell them I am here when you let them in , '' and going into the library she sat down before the grate , waiting rather impatiently until the door-bell rang and she heard both Wilford 's and Mrs. Cameron 's voices in the hall . 
Contrary to her expectations , they did not come into the library , but went into the parlor , the door of which was partially ajar , so that every word they said could be distinctly heard where Katy sat . 
`` Never , '' and Katy could feel just how Wilford 's lips shut over his teeth as he said it ; `` never more cheerful , but worse if anything . 
Why , positively the house seems so like a funeral that I hate to leave the office and go back to it at night , knowing how mopish and gloomy Katy will be . '' 
`` My poor boy , it is worse than I feared , '' Mrs. Cameron said , with a little sigh , while Katy , with a great gasping sob , tried to rise and go to them , to tell them she was there -- the mopish Katy , who made her home so like a funeral to her husband . 
But her limbs refused to move , and she sank back powerless in her chair , compelled to listen to things which no true husband would ever say to a mother of his wife , especially when that wife 's error consisted principally in mourning for the child `` which but for her imprudence might have been living then . '' 
These were Wilford 's very words , and though Katy had once expected him to say them , they came upon her now with a dreadful shock , making her view herself as the murderer of her child , and thus blunting the pain she might otherwise have felt as he went on to speak of Silverton and its inhabitants just as he would not have spoken had he known she was so near . 
Wilford had not said all this , but Katy inferred it , and every nerve quivered with anguish as the wild wish came over her that she had died on that day when she sat in the summer grass at home waiting for Wilford Cameron . 
Poor Katy ! 
She thought they meant her baby -- the little Genevra sleeping under the snow in Silverton -- and her white lips answered , `` Yes , it would be better , '' before Wilford 's voice was heard , saying , as he always said , `` No , I have never wished Genevra in Katy 's place ; though I have sometimes wondered what the result would have been had I learned in season how much I wronged her . '' 
Was heaven and earth coming together , or what made Katy 's brain so dizzy and the room so dark , as , with head bent forward and lips apart , she strained her ear to catch every word of the conversation which followed , and in which she saw glimpses of that leafoffered her once to read , and from which she had promised not to shrink should it ever be thrust upon her ? 
But she did shrink , oh ! 
so shudderingly , holding up her hands and striking them through the empty air as if she would thrust aside the terrible spectre risen so suddenly before her . 
She had heard all that she cared to hear then . 
Another word and she should surely die where she was , within hearing of the voices still talking of Genevra.Stopping her ears to shut out the dreadful sound , she tried to think what she should do . 
To gain the door and reach the street was her desire , and throwing on her wrappings she went noiselessly into the hall , and carefully turning the lock and closing the door behind her , she found herself alone in the street in the dusk of a November night . 
But Katy was not afraid , and drawing her hood closely over her face she sped on until her own house was reached , alarming Esther with her frightened face , but explaining that she had been taken suddenly ill and returned before dinner . 
Meanwhile , at the elder Cameron 's , no one had a suspicion of Katy 's recent presence , for the girl who had admitted her had gone to visit a sick sister , with whom she was to spend the night . 
Thus Katy 's secret was safe , and Wilford , when at last he bade his mother good-bye and started for home , was not prepared for the livid face , the bloodshot eyes , and the strange , unnatural look which met him at the threshold . 
Katy answered his ring herself , her hands grasping his fiercely , and dragging him up the stairs to her own room , where , more like a maniac than Katy Cameron , she confronted him with the startling question , `` Who is Genevra Lambert?It is time I knew before committing greater sin . 
She was standing before him , her slight figure seeming to expand into a greater height , the features glowing with strong excitement , and her hot breath coming hurriedly through her dilated nostrils , but never opening the pale lips set so firmly together . 
There was something terrible in her look and attitude , and it startled Wilford , who recoiled a moment from her , scarcely able to recognize the Katy hitherto so gentle and quiet . 
She had learned his secret , but the facts must have been distorted , he knew , or she had never been so agitated . 
From beneath his hair the great sweat-drops came pouring , as he tried to approach her and take the uplifted hands , motioning him aside with the words , `` Not touch me ; no , not touch me till you have told me whois Genevra Lambert . '' 
She repeated the question twice , and rallying all his strength Wilford answered her at last , `` Genevra Lambert was my wife ! '' 
`` I thought so , '' and the next moment Katy lay in Wilford 's arms , dead , as he feared , for there was no motion about the eyelids , no motion that he could perceive about the pulse or heart , as he laid the rigid form upon the bed and then bent every energy to restore her , even though he feared that it was hopeless . 
If possible he would prefer that no one should intrude upon them now , and he chafed her icy hands and bathed her face until the eyes unclosed again , but with a shudder turned away as they met his . 
Then , as she grew stronger and remembered the past , she started up , exclaiming , `` If Genevra Lambert is your wife , what then am I?Oh , Wilford , how could you make me nota wife , when I trusted and loved you so much ? '' 
He knew she was laboring under a mistake , and he did not wonder at the violence of her emotions if she believed he had wronged her so cruelly , and coming nearer to her he said , `` Genevra Lambert wasmy wife once , but is not now , for she is dead . 
Do you hear me , Katy ? 
By mentioning Silverton , he hoped to bring back something of her olden look , in place of the expression which troubled and frightened him . 
The experiment was successful , and great tears gathered in Katy 's eyes , washing out the wild , unnatural gleam , while the lips whispered , `` And it was her picture Juno saw . 
You have been a good wife , Katy , never to mention it since then ; '' and he tried to kiss her forehead , but she covered it with her hands , saying sadly , `` Not yet , Wilford , I can not bear it now . 
`` Katy , '' and Wilford grew very earnest in his attempts to defend himself , `` do you remember that day we sat under the buttonwood tree , and you promised to be mine ? 
Was that so , Katy ? '' 
`` Yes , '' she answered , and he continued : `` You said you were satisfied to take me as I was . 
Wilford did not like to be censured , neither did he like to censure himself , and now that Katy was out of danger and comparatively calm , he began to build about p591-290 himself a fortress of excuses for having kept from her the secret of his life . 
Katy told him when and how she heard the story , and then added , `` Oh , Wilford , why did you keep it from me ? 
`` In Alnwick , at St. Mary 's , '' Wilford answered , determining now to hold nothing back , and by his abruptness wounding Katy afresh . 
`` In Alnwick , at St. Mary 's , '' Katy cried . 
Katy was sobbing now , in a moaning , plaintive way , which touched Wilford tenderly , and smoothing her tangled hair , he said , `` I would not exchange my Katy for all the Genevras in the world . 
She was never as dear to me as you . 
I was but a boy , and did not know my mind , when I met her . 
Shall I tell you about her now ? 
There was a nod of assent , and Katy turned her face to the wall , clasping her hands tightly together , while Wilford drew his chair to her side and began to read the page he should have read to her long before . 
I saw her once after that by appointment , and her face haunted me for years , for , Katy , Genevra was innocent , as I found after the time was past when reparation could be made . '' 
Wilford 's voice trembled , and for a moment there was silence in the room , while he composed himself to go on with the story : `` She would not live with me again if she could , she said , denouncing bitterly the Cameron pride , and saying she was happier to be free ; and there we parted , but not until she told me that her traducer was the old discarded suitor who had sworn to have revenge , and who , since the divorce , had dared seek her again . 
A vague suspicion of this had crossed my mind once before , but the die was cast , and even if the man were false , what I saw myself in Rome still stood against her , and so my conscience was quieted , while mother was more than glad to be rid of a daughter-in-law of whose family I knew nothing . 
I meant to tell you , Katy , but I could not for the great fear of losing you if you knew all . 
It was natural that I should make some inquiries concerning her last days ; I questioned the old sexton who was at work near by . 
`` I am glad they did ; I should hate you if you had not cried , '' Katy exclaimed , her voice more natural than it had been since the great shock came . 
`` Do you forgive me , Katy ? 
Wilford asked , stooping down to kiss her , but Katy drew her face away and would not answer then . 
She did not know herself how she felt towards him . 
He did not seem just like the husband she had trusted in so blindly . 
He confessed the whole , keeping nothing back , and he felt that Katy was unjust not to acknowledge his magnanimity and restore him to her favor . 
Again he asked forgiveness , and bent down to kiss her , but Katy answered , `` Not yet , Wilford , not till I feel all right towards you . 
`` As you like , '' trembled on Wilford 's lips , but he beat back the words and walked up and down the room , knowing now that his journey must be deferred till morning , and wondering if Katy would hold out till then . 
It was long past midnight , but to retire was impossible , and so for one whole hour he paced through the room , while Katy lay with her eyes closed and her lips moving occasionally in words of prayer she tried to say , asking God to help her , and praying that she might in future lay her treasures up where they could not so suddenly be swept away . 
`` Yes -- oh yes , '' Katy replied , feeling that to have him gone while she battled with the pain lying so heavy at her heart , would be a great relief . 
Cold and cheerless seemed the dining-room , to which an hour later he repaired , and tasteless was the breakfast without Katy there to share it . 
She had been absent many times before , but never just as now , with this wide gulf between them , and as he broke his egg and tried to drink his coffee , Wilford felt like one from whom every support had been swept away . 
He did not like the look on Katy 's face or the sound of her voice , and as he thought upon them , self began to whisper again that she had no right to stand out so long when he had confessed everything , and by the time his breakfast was finished , Wilford Cameron was , in his own estimation , an abused and injured man , so that it was with an air of defiance rather than humility that he went again to Katy . 
She , too , had been thinking , and as the result of her thoughts she lifted up her head as he came in and said , `` I can kiss you now , Wilford . '' 
It was human nature , we suppose -- at least it was p591-299 Wilford 's nature -- which for an instant tempted him to decline the kiss proffered so lovingly ; but Katy 's face was more than he could withstand , and when again he left that room the kiss of pardon was upon his lips and comparative quiet was in his heart . 
`` The picture , Wilford , -- please bring me the picture , I want to see it , '' Katy called after him , as he was running down the stairs . 
Wilford would not refuse , and hastily unlocking his private drawer he carried the case to Katy 's room , saying to her , `` I would not mind it now . 
Katy knew she had the whole day before her , and so she nestled down among her pillows and soon fell into a quiet sleep , from which Esther at last awakened her , asking if she should bring her breakfast to her room . 
`` Yes , do , '' Katy replied , adjusting her dress and trying to arrange the matted curls , which were finally confined in a net until Esther 's more practiced hands were ready to attack them , then sending Esther from the room Katy took the picture of Genevra from the table where Wilford had laid it . 
VERY cautiously the lid was opened , and a lock of soft brown hair fell out , clinging to Katy 's hand and making her shudder as she shook off the silken trees and remembered that the head it once adorned was lying in St. Mary 's churchyard , where the English daisies grew . 
`` She had pretty hair , '' she thought ; `` darker , richer than mine , '' and into Katy 's heart there crept a feeling akin to jealousy , lest Genevra had been fairer than herself , as well as better loved . 
`` I wo n't be foolish any longer , '' she said , and turning resolutely to the light , she opened the lid again and saw Genevra Lambert , starting quickly , then looking again more closely -- then , with a gasp , panting for breath , while like lightning flashes the past came rushing over her , as , with her eyes fixed upon that picture , she tried to whisper , `` It is -- it is ! '' 
She could not then say whom , for if she were right in her belief , Genevra was not dead . 
There were no daisies growing on her grave , for she still walked the earth a living woman , whom Katy knew so well -- Marian Hazelton.That was the name Katy could not speak , as , with the blood curdling in her veins and freezing about her heart , she sat comparing the face she remembered so well with the one before her . 
In some points they were unlike , for thirteen years had slightly marred the youthful contour of the face she knew once -- had sharpened the features and thinned the abundant hair ; but still there could be no mistake . 
The eyes , the brow , the smile , the nose , all were the same , and with a pang bitterer than she yet had felt , poor Katy fell upon her face and asked that she might die . 
In her utter ignorance of law , she fancied that if Genevra were alive , she had no right to Wilford 's name -- no right to be his wife -- especially as the sin for which Genevra was divorced had by her never been committed , and burning tears of bitter shame ran down her cheeks as she whispered , ``` What God has joined together let no man put asunder . ' 
and on the carpet where she was kneeling Katy writhed in agony as she tried to think what she must do . 
Not stay there -- she could not do that now -- not , at least , until she knew for sure that she was Wilford 's wife , in spite of Genevra 's living . 
`` Oh , if there was only some one to advise me -- some one who knew and would tell me what was right , '' Katy moaned , feeling herself inadequate to meet the dark hour alone . 
But to whom should she go ? 
I am in great trouble , Katy . '' 
`` They who have neither wife nor child are the happier perhaps , '' he said ; and then he thought of Katy and her great sorrow when baby died , wondering if to spare herself that pain she would rather baby had never been . 
It was nearly midnight when he reached the city , but a light was shining from the windows of that house in Madison Square , and Katy , who had never for a moment doubted his coming , was waiting for him . 
But not in the parlor ; she was too sick now to go down there , and when she heard his ring and his voice in the hall asking for her , she bade Esther show him to her room . 
More and more perplexed , Morris ran up to the room where Katy lay , or rather crouched , upon the sofa , her eyes so wild and her face so white that , in great alarm , Morris took the cold hands she stretched feebly towards him , and bending over her said , `` What is it , Katy ? 
At the mention of her husband Katy shivered , and rising from her crouching position , she pushed her hair back from her forehead and replied , `` Oh , Morris ! 
It was the first time Katy had put the great horror in words addressed to another , and the act of doing so made it more appalling , and with a moan she sank back among the pillows of the couch , while Morris tried to comprehend the strange words he had heard , `` I am not Wilford 's wife , for he had another before me , -- a wife in Italy , -- who is not dead . '' 
Dr. Morris was thoroughly a man , and though much of his sinful nature had been subdued , there was enough left to make his heart rise and fall with great throbs of joy as he thought of Katy free , even though that freedom were bought at the expense of dire disgrace to others , and of misery to her . 
But only for a moment did he feel thus -- only till he knelt beside the pallid face with the dark rings beneath the eyes , and saw the faint , quivering motion around the lips , which told that she was not wholly unconscious . 
`` My poor little wounded bird , '' he said , as pityingly as if he had been her father , while much as a father might kiss his suffering child , he kissed the forehead and the eyelids where the tears began to gather . 
Katy was not insensible , and the name by which he called her , with the kisses that he gave , thawed the ice around her heart and brought a flood of tears , which Morris wiped away , lifting her gently up and pillowing her hot head upon his arm , while she moaned like a weary child . 
She was talking to herself rather than to Morris , who , smoothing back her hair and chafing her cold hands , said , `` My poor child , you have passed through some agitating scene . 
There was a shiver , and the white lips grew still whiter as Katy began her story , going back to St. Mary 's churchyard , and then coming to her first night in New York , when Juno had told her of a picture and asked her whose it was . 
Then she told of Wilford 's admission of an earlier love , who , he said , was dead ; of the trouble about the baby 's name , and his aversion to Genevra ; but when she approached the dinner at the elder Cameron 's , her lip quivered in a grieved kind of way as she remembered what Wilford had said of herto his mother , but she would not tell this to Morris , -- it was not necessary to her story , -- and so she said , `` They were talking of what I ought never to have heard , and it seemed as if the walls were closing me in so I could not move to let them know I was there . 
Katy was panting for breath , but she went on with the story , which made Morris clench his hands as he comprehended the deceit which had been practiced so long . 
Of course he did not look at it as Katy did , for he knew that according to all civil law she was as really Wilford 's wife as if no other had existed , and he told her so , but Katy shook her head . 
Whom God hath joined together let not man put asunder , '' Katy said with an air which implied that from this argument there could be no appeal . 
She was very earnest in her attempts to prove that Genevra was still a lawful wife , so earnest that a dark suspicion entered Morris 's mind , finding vent in the question , `` Katy , do n't you love your husband , that you try so hard to prove he is not yours ? '' 
There were red spots all over Katy 's face and neck as she saw the meaning put upon her actions , and , covering her face with her hands , she sobbed violently as she replied , `` I do , oh , yes , I do ! 
Oh , how lovingly , how earnestly Morris talked to Katy then , telling her of Him who smites but to heal , who chastens not in anger , and would lead the lost one back into the quiet fold where there was perfect peace . 
And Katy , listening eagerly , with her great blue eyes fixed upon his face , felt that to experience that of which he talked , was worth more than all the world beside . 
Gradually , too , there stole over her the restshe always felt with him -- the indescribable feeling which prompted her to care for nothing except to do just what he bade her do , knowing it was right ; so when he said to her , `` You can not go home with me , Katy ; your duty is to remain here in your husband 's house , '' she offered no remonstrance . 
Indeed , Morris doubted if she fully understood him , she looked so sick and appeared so strange . 
Esther must stay with you , '' he continued , feeling her rapid pulse and noticing the alternate flushing and paling of her cheek . 
Then , with a few directions with regard to the medicine , he fortunately had with him , he left the chamber , and repaired to the library below , where he spent the few remaining hours of the night , pondering on the strange story he had heard , and praying for poor Katy , whose heart had been so sorely wounded . 
She had not been blind during the two years and a half she had been Katy 's maid , and no impatient word of Wilford 's , or frown upon his face , had escaped her when occurring in her presence , while Katy 's uniform sweetness and entire submission to his will had been noted as well , so that in Esther 's opinion Wilford was a domestic tyrant , and Katy was an angel . 
Numerous were her conjectures as to the cause of the present trouble , which must be something serious , or Katy had never telegraphed for Dr. Grant , as she felt certain she had . 
`` Whatever it is , I 'll stand her friend , '' she said , as she bent over her young mistress , who was talking of Genevra and the grave at St. Mary 's , which was no grave at all . 
Morris had faith in himself , and he would rather no other hand should minister to Katy ; but he knew he could not stay there long , for there were those at home who needed his services . 
Added to this , her family physician might know her constitution , now , better than he knew it , and so he answered that it would be well to send for both the doctor and Mrs. Cameron . 
The city and country physicians agreed exactly with regard to Katy 's illness , or rather the city physician bowed in acquiescence when Morris said to him that the fever raging so high had , perhaps , been induced by natural causes , but was greatly aggravated by some sudden shock to the nervous system . 
Morris knew more of Katy , and quite as much of medicine as he did himself , and when Mrs. Cameron begged him to stay longer , he answered that her son 's wife was as safe in his brother physician 's hands as she could be in his . 
`` Perhaps it is best she should not know of the telegram , '' he thought , and merely bowing to her remarks , he turned to Katy , who was growing very restless and moaning as if in pain . 
`` It hurts , '' she said , turning her head from side to side ; `` I am lying on Genevra . '' 
Morris knew better , and as Katy still continued to move her head as if something were really hurting her , he passed his hand under her pillow and drew out the picture she must have kept near her as long as her consciousness remained . 
He knew it was Genevra 's picture , and was about to lay it away , when the cover dropped into his hand , and his eye fell upon a face which was not new to him , while an involuntary exclamation of surprise escaped him , as Katy 's assertion that Genevra was living was thus fully confirmed . 
Marian had not changed past recognition since her early girlhood , and Morris knew the likeness at once , pitying Katy more than he had pitied her yet , as he remembered how closely Marian Hazleton had been interwoven with her married life , and the life of the little child which had borne her name . 
Mrs. Cameron asked , and Morris passed the case to her , saying , `` A picture which was under Katy 's pillow . '' 
Morris did not look at Mrs. Cameron , but tried to busy himself with the medicines upon the stand , while she too recognized Genevra Lambert , wondering how it came in Katy 's possession and how much she knew of Wilford 's secret . 
`` She must have been rummaging , '' she thought , and then as she remembered what Esther had said about her mistress appearing sick and unhappy , when her husband left home , she repaired to the parlor and summoning Esther to her presence , asked her again , `` When she first observed traces of indisposition in Mrs. Cameron . '' 
That was Katy . 
She was there all the time and let herself quietly out of the house . 
I wonder does Wilford know , '' and then there came over her an intense desire for Wilford to come home -- a desire which was not lessened when she returned to Katy 's room and heard her talking of Genevra and the grave at St. Mary 's `` where nobody was buried . '' 
In a tremor of distress , lest she should betray something which Morris must not know , Mrs. Cameron tried to hush her , talking as if it was the baby she meant , but Katy answered promptly , `` It 's Genevra Lambert I mean , Wilford 's other wife ; the one across the sea . 
Here was a phase of affairs for which Mrs. Cameron was not prepared , and excessively mortified that Morris should hear Katy 's ravings , she tried again to quiet her , consoling herself with the reflection that as Morris was Katy 's cousin , he would not repeat what he heard , and feeling gratified now that Dr. Craig was absent , as she could not be so sure of him . 
If Katy 's delirium continued , no one must be admitted to the room except those who could be trusted , and as there had been already several rings , she said to Esther that as the fever was probably malignant and contagious , no one must be admitted to the house with the expectation of seeing the patient , while the servants were advised to stay in their own quarters , except as their services might be needed elsewhere . 
They could try , at all events , '' and in a few moments the telegraphic wires were carrying the news of Katy 's illness , both to the west , where Wilford had gone , and to the east , where Helen read with a blanched cheek that Katy perhaps was dying , and she must hasten to New York . 
This was Mrs. Cameron 's suggestion , wrung out by the knowing that some woman besides herself was needed in the sick-room , and by feeling that Helen could be trusted with the story of the first marriage , which Katy p591-311 talked of constantly , telling it so accurately that only a fool would fail of being convinced that there was much of truth in those delirious ravings . 
WILFORD could not forget Katy 's face , so full of reproach . 
`` Katy is at home , '' he said , as he went into the library , where a shawl was thrown across a chair , as if some one had lately been there . 
`` Is Katy sick ? '' 
`` That was easy , inasmuch as he believed it an insane freak of Katy 's to have no other physician than her cousin . 
It was quite natural , he said , adding that she was as safe with Dr. Grant as any one . 
You will go up now , '' Mrs. Cameron continued , and a moment after Wilford stood in the dimly-lighted room , where Katy was talking of Genevra and St. Mary 's , and was only kept upon her pillow by the strong arm of Morris , who stood over her when Wilford entered , trying in vain to quiet her . 
She knew him , and writhing herself away from Morris 's arms , she said to him , `` Genevra is not in that grave at St. Mary 's ; she is living , and you are not my husband . 
In some moods Wilford would have smiled at being thus summarily dismissed from his own house ; but he was too sore now , too sensitive to smile , and his voice was rather severe as he laid his hand on Katy 's and said , `` Do n't be foolish , Katy . 
`` That was , you mean , '' Katy rejoined , drawing her hand quickly away . 
She would not let him come near her , and grew so excited with his presence that he was forced either to leave the room or sit where she could not see him . 
Afterwards he might remember it differently , but now he was too anxious to keep Morris there to quarrel with him , and so he made no reply , but sat watching Katy as she slept , wondering if she would die , and feeling how terrible life would be without her . 
Could the last few days be blotted out , and Katy stand just where she did , with no suspicion of him , he would have cast his remorse to the winds , and as it is not such repentance God accepts , Wilford had only begun to sip the cup of retribution presented to his lips . 
Convinced that Morris 's sudden journey to New York had something to do with Katy 's illness , and almost distracted with fears for her daughter 's life , Mrs. Lennox could not remain at home and wait for the tardy mail or careless telegraph . 
It hurt Wilford 's pride that she , whom he considered greatly his inferior , should learn his secret ; but it could not now be helped , and within an hour after her arrival she was looking curiously at him for an explanation of the strange things she heard from Katy 's lips . 
His sudden journey to New York was thus accounted for , and Helen explained it to her mother , advising her to say nothing of it , as it might be better for Wilford not to know that Katy had telegraphed for Morris . 
`` Dr. Craig will do as well as I. '' Wilford admitted that he might , but it was with a sinking heart that he saw Morris depart , and then went to Katy , who began to grow very restless and uneasy , bidding him go away and send Dr. Morris back . 
Katy grew constantly worse , until Mrs. Lennox asked that another doctor be called . 
Fear of exposure and censure was stronger than his fears for Katy 's life , which seemed balancing upon a thread as that long night and the next day went by . 
Three times Wilford telegraphed for Morris , and it was with unfeigned joy that he welcomed him back at last , and heard that he had so arranged his business as to stay with Katy while the danger lasted . 
Once , Bell Cameron came round to call on Helen , holding her breath as she passed through the hall , and never asking to go near Katy 's room . 
Wearily after that the days passed with Helen until all thoughts of herself were forgotten in the terrible fear that death was really brooding over the pillow where Katy lay , insensible to all that was passing around her . 
Juno , Bell , and father Cameron all came to see her , dropping tears upon the face looking so old and worn with suffering . 
And while she thus arranged , the mother who had given birth to Katy wrestled in earnest prayer that God would spare her child , or at least grant some space in which she might be told of the world to which she was hastening . 
With p591-317 lip compressed , and brows firmly knit together , Morris , too , sat watching Katy , feeling for the pulse , and bending his ear to catch the faintest breath which came from her parted lips , while in his heart there was an earnest prayer for the safety of the soul , hovering so evenly between this world and the next . 
He did not ask that she might live , for if all were well hereafter he knew it was better for her to die in her young womanhood , than to live till the heart , now so sad and bleeding , had grown callosed with sorrow . 
And yet it was terrible to think of Katy dead ; terrible to think of that face and form laid away beneath the turf of Greenwood , where those who loved her best could seldom go to weep . 
Before his marriage , a jealous thought of Morris Grant , had found a lodgment in Wilford 's breast ; but he had tried to drive it out , and fancied that he had succeeded , experiencing a sudden shock when he felt it lifting its green head , and poisoning his mind against the man who was doing for Katy only what a brother might do . 
Jealous men never reason clearly , and in this case , Wilford did not reason at all , but jumped readily at his conclusion , calling to his aid as proof all that he had ever seen pass between Katy and her cousin . 
That Morris Grant loved Katy was , after a few moments ' reflection , as fixed a fact in his mind , as that she lay there between them , moaning feebly , as if about to speak . 
There was a clenching of his fist , a knitting of his brows , and a gathering blackness in his eyes as he listened while Katy , rousing partially from her lethargy , talked of the days when she was a little girl , and Morris had built the play-house for her by the brook , where the thorn-apples grew and the waters fell over the smooth , white rocks . 
`` Take me back there , '' she said , `` and let me lie on the grass again . 
Wilford 's body shook as he bent forward to listen , while Katy continued : `` Were there no Genevra , I should not think so , but there is , and yet Morris said that made no difference when I telegraphed for him to come and take me away . '' 
He could not speak with those fiery eyes upon him , and he sat erect in his chair , while Katy talked of Silverton , until her voice grew very faint , ceasing at last as she fell into a second sleep , heavier , more deathlike , than the first . 
Something in her face alarmed Morris , and in spite of the eyes watching him he bent every energy to retain the feeble pulse , and the breath which grew shorter with each respiration . 
thank God , Katy is saved ! '' 
What did Katy mean by sending for Morris to take her away ? 
Did she send for him , and was that the cause of his being there ? 
In Morris 's heart there was a moment 's hesitancy to know just what to answer -- an ejaculatory prayer for guidance -- and then lifting up his head , his calm blue eyes met the eyes of black unflinchingly as he replied , `` I have loved her always . '' 
`` How do you reconcile your acknowledged love for Katy with the injunctions of the Bible whose doctrines you indorse ? '' 
`` And that one -- is -- is Katy ? '' 
`` No , not Katy . 
She has no suspicion of the pain which , since I saw her made another 's , has eaten into my heart , making me grow old so fast , and blighting my early manhood . '' 
Something in Morris 's tone and manner made Wilford relax his grasp upon the arm , and sent him back to his chair while Morris continued , `` Most men would shrink from talking to a husband of the love they bore his wife , and an hour ago I should have shrunk from it too , but you have forced me to it , and now you must listen while I tell you of my love for Katy . 
It began longer ago than she can remember -- began when she was my baby sister , and I hushed her in my arms to sleep , kneeling by her cradle and watching her with a feeling I have never been able to define . 
She was in all my thoughts , her face upon the printed page of every book I studied , and her voice in every strain of music I ever heard . 
Then when she grew older , I used to watch the frolicsome child by the hour , building castles of the future , when she would be a woman , and I a man , with a man 's right to win her . 
I know that she shielded me from many a snare into which young men are apt to fall , for when the temptation was greatest , and I was at its verge , a thought of her was sufficient to lead me back to virtue . 
I carried her in my heart across the sea , and said when I go back I will ask her to be mine . 
I went back , but at my first meeting with Katy after her return from Canandaigua , she told me of you , and I knew then that hope for me was gone . 
God grant that you may never experience what I experienced on that day which made her your wife , and I saw her go away . 
In the midst of it Helencame , discovering my secret , and sympathizing with me until the pain at my heart grew less , and I could pray that God would grant me a feeling for Katy which should not be sinful . 
And He did at last , so I could think of her without a wish that she was mine . 
When Katy came to us last summer there was an hour of trial , when faith in God grew weak , and I was tempted to question the justice of His dealing with me . 
But that too passed , and in my love for your child I forgot the mother in part , looking upon her as a sister rather than the Katy I had loved so well . 
Though dead , that baby is still a bar , and Katy is not the same to me she was before that little life came into being . 
It is not wrong to love her as I do now . 
Morris paused a moment , while Wilford said , `` She spoke of telegraphing for you . 
It was natural that you should come , but foolish in Katy to send or think Genevra is living . 
Did Katy name any one whom she believed to be Genevra ? '' 
She merely said she had seen the original of the picture , '' Morris replied . 
`` A fancy , -- a mere whim , '' Wilford muttered to himself , as , greatly disquieted and terribly humbled , he paced the room moodily , trying not to think hard thoughts either against his wife or Dr. Grant , who , feeling that it would be pleasanter for Wilford if he were gone , suggested returning to Silverton at once , inasmuch as the crisis was past and Katy out of danger . 
It was broad day when Katy woke , so weak as to be unable to turn her head upon the pillow , but in her eyes the light of reason was shining , and she glanced wonderingly , first at Helen , who had come in , and then at Wilford , as if trying to comprehend what had happened . 
`` Yes , '' and Katy shivered a little . 
Wilford 's face grew dark at once , and stepping back as Morris came in , he said , `` She asks for you . '' 
Then with a rising feeling of resentment he watched them , while Morris spoke to Katy , telling her she must not allow herself in any way to be excited . 
she asked ; and when Morris replied in the affirmative , she said , `` Of whom have I talked most ? '' 
`` Of Genevra , '' was the answer , and Katy continued , `` Did I mention any one else ? '' 
Morris guessed of whom she was thinking , and answered indifferently , `` You spoke of Miss Hazleton in connection with baby , but that was all . '' 
Katy was satisfied , and closing her eyes fell away to sleep again , while Morris made his preparations for leaving . 
It hardly seemed right for him to go just then , but the only one who could have kept him maintained a frigid silence with regard to a longer stay , and so the first train which left New York for Springfield carried Dr. Grant , and Katy was without a physician . 
Wilford had hoped that Mrs. Lennox , too , would see the propriety of accompanying Morris , but she would not leave Katy , and Wilford was fain to submit to what he could not help . 
Poor Mrs. Lennox understood this perfectly , but she was too much afraid of the great lady to venture a reply , and a tear rolled down her cheek as she wet the napkin for Katy 's head , and wished she had back again the daughter whose family the Camerons despised . 
The atmosphere of Madison Square did not suit Mrs Lennox , especially when , as the days went by and Katy began to amend , troops of gay ladies called , mistaking her for the nurse , and staring a little curiously when told she was Mrs. Cameron 's mother . 
`` You do n't know how I dread your going , or how wretched I shall be without you , '' Katy said , when for a few moments they were alone . 
As well as she could , Helen comforted her sister , and p591-325 commending her to One who would care for her far more than earthly friends could do , she bade her good-bye , and with her mother went back to Silverton . 
He had been humbled to the very dust , and it was Katy who had done it -- Katy , towards whom his heart kept hardening as he thought over all the past . 
What right had she to go to his mother 's after having once declined ; or , being there , what right had she to listen and thus learn the secret he would almost have died to keep ; or , having learned it , why need she have been so much excited , and sent for Dr. Grantto tell her if she were really a wife , and if not to take her away ? 
He had said that he forgave Morris , and at the time he said it he fancied he did , but as the days went by , and thought was all the busier from the moody silence he maintained , there gradually came to life a feeling of hatred for the man whose name he could not hear without a frown , while he watched Katy closely to detect , if possible , some sign by which he should know that Morris 's love was reciprocated . 
But Katy was innocence itself , and tried so hard to do her duty as a wife , going often to the Friend of whom Helen had told her , and finding there the grace which helped her bear what otherwise she could not have borne and lived . 
Wilford had never mentioned Genevra to her since the day of his return , and Katy sometimes felt it would be well to talk that matter over . 
But Wilford repulsed all her advances on that subject , and Genevra was a dead name in their household . 
Times there were when for an entire day he would appear like his former self , caressing her with unwonted tenderness , but never asked her forgiveness for all he had made her suffer . 
He was too proud to do that , and his tenderness always passed away when he remembered Morris Grant and Katy 's remark to Helen which he accidentally overheard . 
He could not reason upon anything naturally , and matters grew daily worse , while Katy 's face grew whiter and her voice sadder in its tone . 
When the Lenten days came on , oh how Katy longed to be in Silverton -- to kneel again in its quiet church , and offer up her penitential prayers with the loved ones at home . 
At last she ventured to ask Wilford if she might go , her spirits rising when he did not refuse her request at once , but asked , `` Whom do you wish to see the most ? '' 
His black eyes seemed reading her through , and someththing in their expression brought to her face the blush he construed according to his jealousy , and when she answered , `` I wish to see them all , '' he retorted , `` Say , rather , you wish to see that doctor , who has loved you so long , and who but for me would have asked you to be his wife ! '' 
she asked , and Wilford replied , `` Dr. Grant , of course . 
`` Never , '' and Katy 's face grew very white , while Wilford continued , `` I had it from his own lips ; he sitting on one side of you and I upon the other . 
`` Never , no never , '' Katy said , panting for her breath , and remembering suddenly many things which confirmed what she had heard . 
`` Poor Morris , how my thoughtlessness must have wounded him , '' she murmured , and then all the pent up passion in Wilford 's heart burst out in an impetuous storm . 
`` But you can think of it now , '' Wilford continued , his cold , icy tone making Katy shiver , as , more to herself than to him , she whispered , `` A life at Linwood with him would be perfect rest , compared with this . '' 
Wilford had goaded her on to say that which roused him to a pitch of frenzy . 
`` You can go to your restat Linwood as soon as you like , and I will go my way , '' he whispered hoarsely , and believing himself the most injured man in existence , he left the house , and Katy heard his step , as it went furiously down the steps . 
For a time she sat stunned with what she had heard , and then there came stealing into her heart a glad feeling that Morris deemed her worthy of his love when she had so often feared the contrary . 
And in this she was not faithless to Wilford . 
She could pray with just as pure a heart as before , and she did pray , thanking God for the love of this good man , but asking that long ere this he might have learned to be content without her . 
Never once did the thought `` It might have been , '' intrude itself upon her , nor did she send one regret after the life she had missed . 
She seemed to rise above all that , and Wilford , had he read her heart , would have found no evil there . 
`` Poor Morris , '' she kept repeating , while little throbs of pleasure went dancing through her veins , and the world was not one half so dreary for knowing he had loved her . 
Towards Wilford , too , her heart went out in a fresh gush of tenderness , for she knew how one of his jealous nature must have suffered . 
And all that day she was thinking of him , and how pleasantly she would meet him when he came home at night , and how she would try to win him from the dark silent mood now so habitual to him . 
More than usual pains she took with her toilet , arranging her bright hair in the long , glossy curls , which she knew he used to admire , and making sundry little changes in her black dress . 
Excitement had brought a faint flush to her cheeks , and she was conscious of a feeling of gratification that for the first time in months she was looking like her former self . 
Slowly the minutes crept on , and the silver-toned clock in the dining-room said it was time for Wilford to come ; then the night shadows gathered in the rooms , and the gas was lighted in the hall and in the parlor , where Katy 's face was pressed against the window pane , and Katy 's eyes peered anxiously out into the darkening streets , but saw no one alighting at their door . 
Neither six , nor seven , nor eight brought him home , and Katy sat down alone to her dinner , which , save the soup and coffee , was removed untasted . 
She could not eat with the terrible dread at her heart that this long protracted absence portended something more than common . 
He hadstaid out as late as that frequently , but rarely later , and Katy listened again for him , until the clock struck one , and she grew sick with fear and apprehension . 
It was a long , long , wretched night , but morning came at last , and at an early hour Katy drove down to Wilford 's office , finding no one there besides Tom Tubbs and Mills , the other clerk . 
Katy could not conceal her agitation , and her face was very white as she asked what time Mr. Cameron left the office the previous day . 
If Katy had one subject more loyal than another it was young Tom Tubbs , whose boyish blood had often boiled with rage at the cool manner with which Wilford treated his wife , when , as she sometimes did , she came into the office . 
He saw at once , that something unusual was troubling her , and hastening to bring her a chair , told her that Mr. Cameron left the office about four o'clock ; that he had spent the most of the day in his private office writing and looking over papers ; that he had given his clerks so many directions with regard to certain matters , that Mills had remarked upon it , saying , `` It would seem as if he did not expect to be here to see to it himself ; '' and this was all Katy could learn , but it was enough to increase the growing terror at her heart , and dropping her veil , she went out to her carriage , followed by Tom , who adjusted the gay robe across her lap , and then looked wistfully after her as she drove up Broadway . 
`` To father Cameron 's , '' she said to the driver , who turned his horses towards Fifth Avenue , where , just coming down the steps of his own house , they met the elder Cameron . 
Katy would rather see him first alone , and motioning him to her side she whispered : `` Oh , father , is Wilford here ? '' 
`` Wilford be -- '' ; the old man did not say what , for the expression of Katy 's face startled him . 
That there was something wrong , and father Cameron knew it , was Katy 's conviction , and she gasped out , `` Tell me the worst . 
Father Cameron was in the carriage by this time , and riding towards Madison Square , for he did not care to introduce Katy into his household , which , just at present , presented a scene of dire confusion and dismay , occasioned by a note received from Wilford to the intent that he had left New York , and did not know when he should return . 
`` Katy can tell you why I go , '' he added , and father Cameron was going to Katy when she met him at his door . 
To Katy 's repeated question , `` Is he dead ? '' 
and father Cameron 's grey eyes rested earnestly on the white , frightned face which looked up so quickly as Katy gasped , `` There hasbeen trouble -- that is , he has not appeared quite the same since -- '' She was interrupted by the carriage stopping before her door ; but when they were in the parlor , father Cameron said , `` Go on now . 
Thus importuned Katy , continued , `` Since baby died . 
father Cameron growled , while Katy , without considering that he had never heard of Genevra , continued , `` And then it was worse after I found out about Genevra , his first wife . '' 
and father Cameron bent down to look in Katy 's face , thinking she was going mad . 
But Katy was not mad , and knowing it was now too late to retract , she told the story of Genevra Lambert to the old man , who , utterly confounded , stalked up and down the room , kicking away chairs and footstools , and whatever came in his way , and swearing promiscuously at his wife and Wilford , whom he pronounced a precious pair of fools , with a dreadful adjective appended to the fools , and an emphasis in his voice which showed he meant what he said . 
Katy , '' and pausing in his walk , Mr. Cameron came close to his daughter-in-law , who was lying with her face upon the sofa . 
`` Katy , be glad your baby died . 
The old man 's voice shook now , and Katy felt his tears dropping on her hair as he stooped over her . 
Katy thought of Dr. Morris , but she could not tell of that , and so she answered , `` There was -- but please do n't ask me now . 
There was one from Wilford for Katy , who nervously tore off the envelope and read as follows : `` Will you be sorry when you read this and find that I am gone , that you are free from the husband you do not love , -- whom , perhaps , you never loved , though I thought you did . 
You are a coquette , Katy , and the greater one because of that semblance of artlessness which is the perfection of art . 
Do n't deny it , Katy ; I saw it in your face when I first told you of Dr. Grant 's confession , and I heard it in your voice as well as in your words when you said ` A life at Linwood would be perfect rest compared with this . ' 
That hurt me cruelly , Katy . 
This was the letter , and there was perfect silence while Katy read it through , Mr. Cameron never taking his eyes from her face , which turned first white , then red , then spotted , and finally took a leaden hue as Katy ran over the lines , comprehending the truth as she read , and when the letter was finished , lifting her dry , tearless eyes to Father Cameron , and whispering to herself , `` Deserted ! '' 
She let him read the letter , and when he had finished , explained the parts he did not understand , telling him now what Morris had confessed -- telling him too that in her first sorrow , when life and sense seemed reeling , she had sent for Dr. Grant , knowing she could trust him and be right in doing whatever he advised . 
Mr. Cameron asked , and Katy told him her belief that Genevra was living -- that it was she who made the bridal trousseau for Wilford 's second wife , she who nursed his child until it died , giving to it her own name , arraying it for the grave , and then leaving before the father came . 
`` I never told Wilford , '' Katy said . 
Mr. Cameron could not look upon the woman who stood before him , so helpless and stricken in her desolation , and believe her wrong in anything . 
The guilt lay in another direction , and when , as the terrible reality that she was indeed a deserted wife came rushing over Katy , she tottered toward him for help ; he stretched his arms out for her , and taking the sinking figure in them , laid it upon the sofa as gently , as kindly , as Wilford had ever touched it in his most loving days . 
Katy did not faint nor weep . 
She was past all that ; but her face was like a piece of marble , and her eyes were like those of the hunted fawn when the chase is at its height , and escape impossible . 
Katy tried to protest , but he was half way down the stairs , and in a moment more was with his wife , who , impatient at his long delay , had come herself , armed and equipped , to censure Katy as the cause of Wilford 's disappearance , and to demand of her what she had done . 
See if you like better a dressmaker , a nurse to Katy 's baby , Marian Hazelton ! '' 
`` I know what is in your mind , '' he said ; `` people willtalk about Wilford 's going off so suddenly , and you would like to have all the blame rest on Katy ; but , madam hear me : Just so sure as through your means one breath of suspicion falls on her , I 'll bla-atout the whole story of Genevra . 
On the other hand , if you hold your tongue , and make Juno hold hers , and stick to Katy through thick and thin , acting as if you would like to swallow her whole , I 'll say nothing of this Genevra . 
`` Yes , '' came faintly from the sofa cushions , where Mrs. Cameron had buried her face , sobbing in a confused , frightened way , and after a few moments asking to see Katy , whom she kissed and caressed with unwonted tenderness , telling her Wilford would come back , and adding , that in any event no one could or should blame her . 
You think she is living still -- that she is Marian Hazelton ? '' 
and Mrs. Cameron smoothed Katy 's hair as she talked , trying to be motherly and kind , while her heart beat more painfully at thoughts of a Genevra living , than it ever had at thoughts of a Genevra dead . 
She would swear Katy was innocent of everything , if necessary , while Juno and Bell should swear too . 
Of course , they must know , and she should tell them that very night , she said to herself ; and hence it was that in the gossip which followed Wilford 's disappearance , not a word was breathed against Katy , whose cause the family espoused so warmly , -- Bell and the father because they really loved and pitied her , and Mrs. Cameron and Juno because it saved them from the disgrace which would have fallen on Wilford , had the fashionable world known then of Genevra . 
They could not believe in domestic troubles when they saw how his family clung to and defended Katy from the least approach of censure , Juno taking up her abode with her `` afflicted sister , '' Mrs. Cameron driving round each day to see her ; Bell always speaking of her with genuine affection , while the father clung to her like a hero , the quartette forming a barrier across which the shafts of scandal could not reach . 
WHEN Wilford left Katy so abruptly he had no definite purpose in his mind . 
Like most angry people , he forgot wherein he had been in fault , but charged it all to Katy as he went down Broadway that spring morning , finding on his table a letter from an old classmate , who was then in Washington getting up a company , and who wrote urging his friend to join him at once , and offering him the rank of First Lieutenant . 
Here was a temptation , -- here an opportunity to revenge himself on Katy , against whom he wrote a sad list of errors , making it sadder by brooding over and magnifying it until he reached a point from which he would not swerve . 
`` I will spare Katy as much as possible , '' he said , `` for hers is a different nature from Genevra 's . 
She can not bear as well , '' and a bitter groan broke the silence of the room as Katy came up before him just as she had looked that very morning standing by the window , with tears in her eyes , and a wistful , sorry look on her white face . 
But Wilford was not one to retract when a decision was reached , and so he arranged his business matters as well as his limited time would allow ; then , after the brief note to his father , wrote the letter to Katy , and then followed to the Jersey ferry a regiment of soldiers who were going on to Washington that night . 
A week of terrible suspense went by , and then there came a letter to Mr. Cameron from his son , requesting him to care for Katy , but asking no forgiveness for himself . 
There were no apologies , no explanations , no kind words for Katy , whose eyes moved slowly over the short letter , and then were lifted sadly to her father 's face as she said , `` I will write to him myself , and on his answer will depend my future course . '' 
This she said referring to the question she had raised as to whether she should remain in New York or go to Silverton , where the family as yet knew nothing except that Wilford had joined the army . 
And so the days went by , while Katy 's letter was sent to Wilford , together with another from his father , who called his son a `` confounded fool , '' telling him to throw up his shoulder straps , which only honest men had a right to wear , and come home where he belonged . 
To Katy , however , Wilford wrote in a different strain , showing here and there marks of tenderness and relenting , but saying what he had done could not now be helped , -- he was in for a soldier 's life for two years , and should abide his choice . 
This was the purport of Wilford 's letter , and Katy , when she finished reading it , said sorrowfully , `` Wilford never loved me , and I can not stay in hishome , knowing that I am not trusted and respected as a wife should be . 
Meanwhile at Silverton there was much anxiety for Katy , and many doubts expressed lest something was wrong . 
Presuming upon her experience as a traveler , Aunt Betsy had proffered sundry pieces of advice with reference to what it was best for him to do on the road , telling him which side of the car to sit , where to get out , and above all things not to shake hands with the conductor when asked for his ticket . 
With a scream of joy Katy threw herself into Uncle Ephraim 's arms , and then led him to her own room , while the first tears she had shed since she knew she was deserted rained in torrents over her face . 
Uncle Ephraim asked ; and with his arm around her , Katy told him what had happened , and asked what she should do . 
You need not deny it , for it 's writ all over your face , '' he continued , as Katy tried to stop him , for sore as was her heart with the great injustice done her , she would not have Wilford blamed , and she was glad when dinner was announced , as that would put an end to the painful conversation . 
Leading Uncle Ephraim to the table , she presented him to Juno , whose cold nod and haughty stare were lost on the old man , bowing his white head so reverently as he asked the first blessing which had ever been asked at that table . 
God had almost been forgotten , and now He was pouring His wrath upon the handsome dwelling , making it so distasteful that Katy was anxious to leave it , and expressed her desire to accompany Uncle Ephraim to Silverton as soon as the necessary arrangements could be made . 
`` I do n't take it she comes for good , '' Uncle Ephraim said that evening , when Mr. Cameron opposed her going . 
When the two years are gone , and her man wants her back , she must come of course . 
But she grows poor here in the city . 
It do n't agree with her like the scent of the clover and the breeze from the hils . 
Mr. Cameron knew that Katy would be happier at Silverton , and he finally consented to her going , and placed at her disposal a sum which seemed to the deacon a little fortune in itself . 
To Mrs. Cameron and Juno it was a relief to have Katy taken from their hands , and though they made a show of opposition , they were easily quieted , and helped her off with alacrity , the mother promising to see that the house was properly cared for , and Juno offering to send the latest fashions which might be suitable , as soon as they appeared . 
Something tells me so , '' she said , as she stood with her arms around Katy 's p591-339 waist , and her lips occasionally touching Katy 's forehead . 
`` But I shall see you , '' she continued ; `` I am coming to the farm-house in the summer , and you may say to Aunt Betsy that I like her ever so much , and '' -- Bell glanced behind her , to see that no one was listening , and then continued -- `` tell her a certain officer was sick a few days in a hospital last winter , and one of his men brought to him a dish of the most delicious dried peaches he ever ate . 
`` I 'll tell her , '' Katy said , and then bidding them all good-bye , and putting her hand on Uncle Ephraim 's arm , she went with him from the home where she had lived but two years , and those the saddest , most eventful ones of her short life . 
THERE was much talk in Silverton when it was known that Katy had come to stay until her husband returned from the war , and at first the people watched her curiously as she came among them again , so quiet , so subdued , so unlike the Katy of old that they would have hardly recognized her but for the beauty of her face and the sunny smile she gave to all , and which rested oftenest on the poor and suffering , who blessed her as the angel of their humble homes , praying that God would remember her for all she was to them . 
Wilford had censured her at first for going to Silverton , when he preferred she should stay in New York , hinting darkly at the reason of her choice , and saying to her once , when she told him how the Sunday before her twenty-first birthday she had knelt before the altar and taken upon herself the vows of confirmation , `` Your saintly cousin is , of course , delighted , and that I suppose is sufficient , without my congratulations . '' 
Perhaps he did not mean it , but he seemed to take delight in teasing her , and Katy sometimes felt she should be happier without his letters than with them . 
He never said he was sorry he had left her so suddenly -- indeed he seldom referred to the past in any way ; or if he did , it was in a manner which showed that he thought himself the injured party , if either . 
Katy did not often go to Linwood , and seldom saw Morris alone . 
After what had passed she thought it better to avoid him as much as possible , and was glad when early in June he accepted a situation offered him as surgeon in a Georgetown hospital , and left Silverton for his new field of labor . 
True to her promise , Bell came the last of July to Silverton , proving herself a dreadful romp , as she climbed over the rocks in Aunt Betsy 's famous sheep-pasture , or raked the hay in the meadow , and proving herself , too , a genuine woman , as with blanched cheek and anxious heart she waited for tidings from the battles before Richmond , where the tide of success seemed to turn , and the North , hitherto so jubilant and hopeful , wore weeds of mourning from Maine to Oregon . 
Only once did he call at Mr. Cameron 's , and then as Juno was out Bell had him to herself , talking of Silverton , of Helen and Katy , in the latter of whom he seemed far more interested than her sister . 
Many questions he asked concerning Katy , expressing his regret that Wilford had left her , and saying he believed Wilford was sorry , too . 
He was in the hospital now , with a severe cold and a touch of the rheumatism , he said ; but as Bell knew this already she did not dwell long upon that subject , choosing rather to talk of Helen , who , she said , was `` as much interested in the soldiers , as if she had a brother or a lover in the army , '' and her bright eyes glanced meaningly at Mark , who answered carelessly , `` Dr. Grantis there , and that may account for her interest . '' 
But the work was over now ; the church was swept and dusted , the tree with its gay adornings was in its place , the little ones , who had hindered so much , were gone , as were their mothers , and Helen only tarried with the organ boy to play the Christmas Carol , which Katy was to sing alone , the children joining in the chorus as they had been trained to do . 
Katy , to whom Mark first communciated his desire , warmly espoused his cause , and that went far towards reassuring Helen , who for some time past had been learning to look up to Katy as to an older sister , so sober , so earnest , so womanly had Katy grown since Wilford went away . 
`` It is so sudden , and people will talk , '' Helen said , knowing , while she said it , how little she cared for people , and smiling at Katy 's reply . 
After Katy , Aunt Betsy was Mark 's best advocate . 
Accordingly she threw herself into the scale beginning to balance in favor of Mark , and when at last old Whitey stood at the door , ready to take the family to the church , Helen sat upon the lounge listening half bewildered while Katy assured her that shecould play the voluntary , even if she had not looked at it , that she could lead the children without the organ , and in short do everything Helen was expected to do except go to the altar with Mark . 
The cross was a `` quirk , '' with which she 'd have nothing to do , though once , when Katy seemed more than usually bothered and wished somebody would hand her tacks , Aunt Betsy relented so far as to bring the hoop she was winding close to Katy , holding the little nails in her mouth , and giving them out as they were wanted ; but with each one given out , conscientiously turning her head away , lest her eyes should fall upon what she conceived the symbol of the Romish Church . 
That she knew something her neighbors did n't was evident , but she kept it to herself , turning her head occasionally to look up at the organ where Katy was presiding . 
It was a skillful hand which swept the keys that night , for Katy played with her whole soul -- not the voluntary there before her in printed form , nor any one thing she had ever heard , but taking parts of many things , and mingling them with strains of her own improvising she filled the house as it had never been filled before , playing a soft , sweet refrain when she thought of Helen , then bursting into louder , fuller tones , when she remembered Bethlehem 's Child and the song the angels sang , and then as she recalled her own sad life since she knelt at the altar a happy bride , the organ notes seemed much like human sobs , now rising to a stormy pitch of passion , wild and uncontrolled , and then dying out as dies the summer wind after a fearful storm . 
Awed and wonderstruck the organ boy looked at Katy as she played , almost forgetting his part of the performance in his amazement , and saying to himself when she had finished , `` Guy , ai n't she a brick ? '' 
and whispering to her , `` Did n't we go that strong ? '' 
The people had wondered where Helen was , as , without the aid of music , Katy led the children in their carols , and this wonder increased when it was whispered round that `` Miss Lennox had come , and was standing with a manback by the register . '' 
At a sign from the rector , Katy went with her mother to the altar , followed by Uncle Ephraim , his wife , and Aunt Betsy , while Helen , throwing off the cloud she had worn upon her head , and giving it , with her cloak and fur , into Billy 's charge , took Mark 's arm , and with beating heart and burning cheeks passed between the sea of eyes fixed so curiously upon her , up to where Katy once stood on the June morning , when she had been the bride . 
Much the Silvertonians discussed the wedding , and had Helen been the queen , she could hardly have been stared at more curiously than she was that Christmas day , when late in the afternoon she drove through the town with Katy , the villagers looking admiringly after her , noting the tie of her bonnet , the arrangement of her face trimmings , and discovering in both a style and fitness they had never discovered before . 
As the wife of Mark Ray , Helen became suddenly a heroine , in whose presence poor Katy subsided completely ; nor was the interest at all diminished when , two days later , Mrs. Banker came to Silverton and was met at the depot by Helen , whom she hugged affectionately , calling her `` my dear daughter , '' and holding her hand all the way to the covered sleigh waiting there for her . 
I will try to fill her place , '' Katy said , though while she said it her heart throbbed with pain and dread as she thought how desolate she should be without her sister . 
But it was right , and Katy urged Helen 's going , bearing up bravely so long as Helen was in sight , but shedding bitter tears when at last she was gone , tears which were only stayed when kind old Uncle Ephraim offered to take her to the little grave , where , from experience , he knew she always found rest and peace . 
The winter snows were on it now , but Katy knew just where the daisies were , and the blue violets which with the spring would bloom again , feeling comforted as she thought of that eternal spring in the bright world above , where her child had gone . 
And so that night , when they gathered again around the fire in the pleasant little parlor , the mother and the old people did not miss Helen half so much as they had feared they might , for Katy sang her sweetest songs and wore her sunniest smile , while she told them of Helen 's new home , and talked of whatever else she thought would interest and please them . 
Once Helen thought p591-357 seriously of going to him for a week or more , but the project was prevented by the sudden arrival in New York of Katy , who came one night to Mrs. Banker 's , with her face as white as ashes , and a wild expression in her eyes as she said to Helen , `` I am going to Wilford . 
I ought to go on to-night , but can not , my head aches so , '' and pressing both her hands upon her head Katy sank fainting into Helen 's arms . 
So read the telegram received by Katy one winter morning , and which stunned her for a few minutes so that she could neither feel nor think . 
Bravely she kept up until New York was reached , when the tension of her nerves gave way , and she fainted , as we have seen . 
They heard of Katy 's arrival , and Bell came at once to see her . 
`` She will not be able to join us to-morrow , '' was the report Bell carried home , for she saw more than mere exhaustion in the white face lying so motionless on Helen 's pillow , with the dark rings about the eyes , and the quiver of the muscles about the mouth . 
`` It is very hard , but God knows best , '' poor Katy moaned , when the next day her father and Bell went without her . 
Katy said it many times that long , long week , during which she staid with Helen , living from day to day upon the letters sent by Bell , who gave but little hope that Wilford would recover . 
Not a word did she say of Marian , and only twice did she mention Morris , who was one of the physicians in that hospital , so that when at last Katy was strong enough to venture on the journey , she had but little idea of what had transpired in Wilford 's sick room . 
Of Katy he thought continually , repenting of his rashness , and wishing so much that the past could be undone . 
Gradually , however , there came a change , and Wilford grew softer in his feelings , half resolving to send for Katy , who had offered to come , and to whom he had replied , `` It is not necessary . '' 
Once he dreamed Genevra was there -- that her fingers threaded his hair as they used to do in the happy days at Brighton -- that her hand was on his brow , her breath upon his face , and with a start he awoke just as the rustle of female garments died away in the hall . 
Retaining the same proud reserve which had characterized his whole life , he asked no questions , but listened to what his companions were saying of the beauty and tenderness of the `` young girl , '' as they called her , who had glided for a few moments into their presence , winning their hearts in that short space of time , and making them wish she would come back again . 
Wilford wished so too , conjuring up all sorts of conjectures about the unknown nurse , and once going so far as to fancy it was Katy herself . 
But Katy would hardly venture there as nurse , and if she did she would not keep aloof from him . 
It was not Katy , and if not , who was it that twice when he was sleeping came and looked at him , his comrades said , rallying him upon the conquest he had made , and so exciting his imagination that the fever began to increase , and the blood throbbed hotly through his veins , while his brows were knit together with thoughts of the mysterious stranger . 
Then , with a great shock it occurred to him that Katy had affirmed , `` Genevrais alive . '' 
When they said he was unconscious , Marian Hazelton obtained permission to attend him , and again the eyes of the other occupants of the room were turned wonderingly towards her as she bent over the sick man , parting his matted hair , smoothing his pillow , and holding the cooling draught to the parched lips which muttered strange things of Brighton , of Alnwick and Rome -- of the heather on the Scottish moors , and the daisies on Genevra 's grave , where Katy once sat down . 
`` She did not know Genevra was there , '' he said ; `` but I knew , and I felt as if the dead were wronged by that act of Katy 's . 
Do youknow Katy ? '' 
and his black eyes fastened upon Marian , who , soothed him into quiet , while she talked to him of Katy , telling of her graceful beauty , her loving heart , and the sorrow she would feel when she heard how sick he was . 
`` Shall I send for her ? '' 
she asked , but Wilford answered , `` No , I am satisfied with you . '' 
This was her first day with him , but there were other days when all her strength , and that of Morris , who , at at her earnest solicitation , came to her aid , was required to keep him on his bed . 
He was going home , he said , going to Katy ; and like a giant he writhed under a force superior to his own , and which held him down and controlled him , while his loud outcries filled the building , and send a shudder to the hearts of those who heard them . 
And thus the room was left alone for Wilford , who grew worse so fast that Marian telegraphed to Katy , bidding her come at once . 
Slowly the wintry night was passing , the fifth since Marian 's message was sent to Katy , and Morris sat by Wilford 's cot , when suddenly he met Wilford 's eyes fixed upon him with a look of recognition he could not mistake . 
A pressure of the hand was Wilford 's reply , and then there was silence between them , while Wilford mastered all his pride , and with quivering lips whispered , `` Katy ! '' 
`` It would not be best , both for his sake and Katy 's , '' Morris said , and with a moan like the dying out of her last hope , Marian turned away , her eyes dim with tears and her heart heavy with a sense of something lost , as in the grey dawn of the morning she went back to her former patients , who hailed her coming with childish joy , one fair young boy from the Granite hills kissing the hand which bandaged his poor crushed arm so tenderly , and thanking her that she had returned to him again . 
`` Mr. J. Cameron , Miss Bell Cameron , '' were the names on the cards sent to Dr. Grant late that afternoon , and in a few moments he was with the father and sister who asked so anxiously for Wilford and explained why Katy was not with them . 
Wilford was sleeping when they entered his room , his face looking so worn and thin , and his hands folded so helplessly upon his breast , that with a gush of tears Bell knelt beside him , and laying her warm cheek against his bony one , woke him with her sobs . 
For a moment he seemed bewildered , then recognizing her , he raised his feeble arm and winding it about her neck , kissed her more tenderly than he had ever done before . 
But Bell was his favorite , and he held her close to him while his eyes moved past his father , whom he did not see , on to the door as if in quest of some one . 
It was Katy , and guessing his thoughts , Bell said , `` She is not here . 
He was too weak to talk , but he held Bell 's hand in his as if afraid that she would leave him , while his eyes rested alternately upon her face and that of his father , who , wholly unmanned at the fearful change in his son , laid his head upon the bed and cried aloud . 
Next morning Bell was very white and her voice trembled as she came from a conference with Dr. Morris , who had told her that her brother would die . 
Bell thought , as she went to her brother , mourning her misspent days , and feeling her courage giving way when at last she stood in his presence and met his kindly smile . 
Nor had he ; and it came like a thunderbolt when Bell , forgetting all her prudence , said impetuously , `` Oh , Wilford , maybe you 'll never go home . 
He was terribly excited , and in her fright Bell ran for Dr. Grant . 
With a strange feeling of interest Mr. Cameron and Bell watched her , wondering if she were indeed Genevra , as Katy had affirmed . 
They would not ask her ; and both breathed more freely when , with a bow in acknowledgment of Mr. Cameron 's compliment to her skill in quieting his son , she left the room . 
`` I was too proud , too selfish , to make others happy , '' he said `` I thought it all over yesterday , and the past came back again so vividly , especially the part connected with Katy . 
Oh , Katy , I did abuse her ! '' 
and a bitter sob attested the genuineness of Wilford 's grief for his treatment of Katy . 
`` I despised her family , I treated them with contempt . 
I broke Katy 's heart , and now I must die without telling her I am sorry . 
But you 'll tell her , Bell , how I tried to pray , but could not for thoughts of my sin to her . 
She will not be glad that I am dead . 
I know her better than to think that ; and I believe she loves me . 
But , after I am gone , and the duties of the world have closed up the gap I shall leave , I see , a brighter future for her than her past has been ; and you may tell her I am -- '' He could not say `` I am willing . '' 
`` Would you like to see her , if she was living ? '' 
He had no suspicion of her presence ; and it was best he should not . 
Katy was the one uppermost in his mind ; and in the letter Bell sent to her next day , he tried to write , `` Good-bye , my darling ; '' but the words were scarcely legible , and his nerveless hand fell helpless at his side as he said , `` She will never know the effort it cost me , nor hear me say that I hope I am forgiven . 
It came to me last night ; and now the way is not so dark , but Katy will not know . '' 
KATY would know ; for she was coming at last . 
A telegram had announced that she was on the road ; and with nervous restlessness Wilford asked repeatedly what time it was , reducing the hours to minnutes , and counting his own pulses to see if he could last so long . 
`` Save me , Doctor , '' he whispered to Morris , `` keep me alive till Katy comes . 
I must see Katy again . '' 
And Morris , tenderer than a brother , did all he could to keep the feeble breath from going out ere Katy came . 
The train was due at five ; but it was dark in the hospital , and from every window a light was shining , when Morris carried , rather than led , a quivering figure up the stairs and through the hall to the room where the Camerons were , the father standing at the foot of Wilford 's bed , and Bell bending over his pillow , administering the stimulants which kept her brother alive . 
When Katy came in , she moved away , as did her father , while Morris too stepped back into the hall ; and thus the husband and wife were left alone . 
`` Katy , precious Katy , you have forgiven me ? '' 
Wilford whispered , and the rain of tears and kisses on his face was Katy 's answer as she hung over him . 
She had forgiven him , and she told him so when she found voice to talk , wondering to find him so changed from the proud , exacting , self-worshiping man to the humble , repentant and self-accusing person , who took all blame of the past to himself , and exonerated her from every fault . 
But when he drew her close to him , and whispered something in her ear , she knew whence came the change , and a reverent `` Thank the good Father , '' dropped from her lips . 
`` The way was dark and thorny , '' Wilford said , making her sit down where he could see her as he talked , `` and only for God 's goodness I should have lost the path . 
Oh , Katy , you do not know how that rested upon my conscience . 
Forgive me , Katy , that I robbed you of your child . '' 
He was growing very weak , and he looked so white and ghastly that Katy called for Bell , who came with her father , and the three stood together around the bedside of the dying . 
`` You will remember me , Katy , '' he said , `` but you can not mourn for me always , and sometime in the future you will cease to be my widow , and , Katy , I am willing . 
Wholly bewildered , Katy made no reply , and Wilford was silent a few moments , in which he seemed partially asleep . 
Did you mean it , Katy ? '' 
Frightened and bewildered , Katy turned appealingly to her father-in-law , who answered for her , `` She meant it -- Genevra is not dead , '' while a blood-red flush stained Wilford 's face , and his fingers beat the bedspread thoughtfully . 
`` I fancied once that she was here -- that she was the nurse the boys praise so much . 
But that was a delusion , '' he said , and without a thought of the result , Katy asked impetuously , `` if she were here would you care to see her ? '' 
There was a startled look on Wilford 's face , and he grasped Katy 's hand nervously , his frame trembling with a dread of the great shock which he felt impending over him . 
`` Is she here ? 
They did not contradict him , nor did he ask to see her . 
With Katy there he felt he had better not ; but after a moment he continued , `` It is all so strange . 
There were no convulsive struggles , only heavy breathings , which grew farther and farther apart , until at last Wilford drew Katy close to him , and winding his arm around her neck , whispered , `` I am almost home , my darling , and all is well . 
He never spoke again , and a few minutes later Morris led Katy from the room , and then went out to give orders for the embalming . 
In the little room she called her own , Marian Hazelton sat , her beautiful hair disordered , and her eyes dim with the tears she had shed . 
She had not expected to see him with Katy present ; but now that it was over she might go to him . 
No one but Morris would know who she was , she thought , when there came a timid knock upon her door , and Katy entered , her face very pale , and her manner very calm , as she came to Marian , and kneeling down beside her , laid her head in her lap with the air of a weary child who has sought its mother for rest . 
`` Poor little Katy ! '' 
`` Yes ; '' and Katy lifted up her head , and fixing her eyes earnestly upon Marian , continued , `` Wilford is dead , but before he died he left a message for Genevra Lambert.Will she hear it now ? '' 
Wilford thought you were dead , '' Katy said , flinching a little before Marian 's burning gaze , which fascinated even while it startled her . 
As Marian 's was the stronger nature , so she was the first to rally , and with the tears swimming in her eyes she drew Katy closely to her , and said , `` Now that he is gone I am glad you know it . 
Carefully Katy repeated every word Wilford had said , and with a gasping cry Marian wound her arms around her neck , exclaiming , `` And you willlove me , because I have suffered so much . 
You will let me call you Katy when we are alone . 
Marian was now the weaker of the two , and it was Katy 's task to comfort her , as sinking back in her chair she sobbed , `` He did love me once . 
she suddenly asked , and when assured that they did , she relapsed into a silent mood , while Katy stole quietly out and left her there alone . 
That night in Marian 's room Katy sat and listened to what she did not before know of the strange story kept from her so long . 
Marian confirmed all Wilford had told , breathing no word of blame against him now that he was dead , only stating facts , and leaving Katy to draw her own conclusions . 
`` I knew that I was handsome , '' she said , `` and I liked to test my power ; but for that weakness I have been sorely punished . 
Marian had said all she meant to say , and all Katy came to hear . 
Few were the parting words they spoke , for the great common sorrow welling up from their hearts ; but when at last they said good-bye , the bond of friendship p591-373 between them was more strongly cemented than ever , and Katy long remembered Marian 's parting words . 
THE grand funeral which Mrs. Cameron once had planned for Katy was a reality at last , but the breathless form lying so cold and still in the darkened room at No . 
To Katy she was very kind , caressing her with unwonted affection , and scarcely suffering her to leave her sight , much less to stay for a day at Mrs. Banker 's , where Katy secretly preferred to be . 
Of Genevra , too , she talked with Katy , and at her instigation wrote a friendly letter , thanking Mrs. Lambertfor all her kindness to her son , expressing her sorrow that she had ever been so unjust to her , and sending her a handsome locket , containing on one side a lock of Wilford 's hair , and on the other his picture , taken from a large sized photograph . 
With Mr. Cameron the blow struck deeper , and his Wall street friends talked together of the old man he had grown since Wilford died , while Katy often found him bending over his long-neglected Bible , as he sat alone in his room at night . 
And when at last she ventured to speak to him upon the all important subject , he put his p591-375 hand in hers , and bade her teach him the narrow way which she had found , and wherein Wilford too had walked at the very last , they hoped . 
For many weeks Katy lingered in New York , and the June roses were blooming when she went back to Silverton , a widow and the rightful owner of all Wilford 's ample fortune . 
They had found among his papers a will , drawn up and excuted not long before his illness , and in which Katy was made his heir , without condition or stipulation . 
All was hers to do with as she pleased , and Katy wept passionately when she heard how generous Wilford had been . 
Then , as she thought of Marian and the life of poverty before her , she crept to Father Cameron 's side , and said to him , pleadingly , `` Let Genevrashare it with me . 
Father Cameron would not permit Katy to divide equally with Marian . 
It was not just , he said ; but he did not object to a few thousands going to her , and before Katy left New York for Silverton , she wrote a long , kind letter to Marian , presenting her with ten thousand dollars , which she begged her to accept , not so much as a gift , but as her rightful due . 
There was a moment 's hesitancy on the part of Marian when she read the letter , a feeling that she could not take so much from Katy ; but when she looked at the pale sufferers around her , and remembered how many wretched hearts that money would help to cheer , she said , `` I will keep it . '' 
`` I shall never see him again , '' she said despairingly ; and when the message came that Mark had been removed , and that too just at the time when an exchange was constantly expected , she gave him up as lost , feeling almost as much windowed as Katy in her weeds . 
Much of Bell 's time was passed with Katy , at the farm-house , and here Lieutenant Reynolds found her , accepting readily of Uncle Ephraim 's hearty invitation to remain , and spending his entire vacation there with the exception of three days , given to his family . 
Helen was glad Morris was coming home , for he always did her good ; he could comfort her better than any one else , unless it were Katy , whose loving , gentle words of hope were very soothing to her . 
she sighed , as she finished his letter , and then took it to the family , who were sitting upon the pleasant piazza , which , at Katy 's expense and her own , had been added to the house , and overlooked Fairy Pond and the pleasant hills beyond . 
His eyes are badly diseased , but he hopes that coming back to us will cure him , '' she added , glancing at Katy , who sat upon a step of the piazza , her hands folded together upon her lap , and her blue eyes looking far off into the fading sunset . 
When she heard Morris 's name , she turned her head a little , so that the ripple of her golden hair was more distinctly visible beneath the silken net she wore ; but she made no comment nor showed by any sign that she heard what they were saying . 
Katy was very lovely and consistent in her young widowhood , and not a whisper of gossip had the Silvertonians coupled with her name since she came to them , leaving her husband in Greenwood . 
There had been no parading of her grief before the public , or assumption of greater sorrow than many others had known ; but the soberness of her demeanor , and the calm , subdued expression of her face , attested to what she had suffered . 
Sixteen months had passed since Wilford died , and she still wore her deep mourning weeds , except the widow 's cap , which , at her mother 's and Aunt Betsy 's earnest solicitations , she had laid aside , substituting in its place a simple net , which confined her waving hair and kept it from breaking out in flowing curls , as it was disposed to do . 
Katy had never been prettier than she was now , in her mature womanhood , and to the poor and sorrowful whose homes she cheered so often she was an angel of goodness . 
Truly she had been purified by suffering ; the dross had been burned out , and only the gold remained , shedding its brightness on all with which it came in contact . 
They would miss her at the farm-house now more than they did when she first went away , for she made the sunshine of their home , filling Helen 's place when she was in New York , and when she came back proving to her a stay and comforter . 
Indeed , but for Katy 's presence Helen often felt that she could not endure the sickening suspense and doubt which hung so darkly over her husband 's fate . 
`` He is alive ; he willcome back , '' Katy always said , and from her perfect faith Helen , too , caught a glimpse of hope . 
Could they have forgotten Mark they would have been very happy at the farm-house now , for with the budding spring and blossoming summer Katy 's spirits had returned , and her old musical laugh rang through the house just as it used to do in the happy days of girlhood , while the same silvery voice which led the choir in the brick church , and sang with the little children their Sunday hymns , often broke forth into snatches of songs , which made even the robins listen , as they built their nests in the trees . 
If Katy thought of Morris , she never spoke of him when she could help it . 
It was a morbid fancy to which she clung , that duty to Wilford 's memory required her to avoid the man who had so innocently come between them ; and when she heard he was coming home she felt more pain than pleasure , though for an instant the blood throbbed through her veins as she thought of Morris at Linwood , just as he used to be . 
The day of his return was balmy and beautiful , and at an early hour Helen went over to Linwood to see that everything was in order for his arrival , while Katy followed at a later hour , wondering if Wilford would object if he knew she was going to welcome Morris , who might misconstrue her motives if she staid away . 
There was very little for her to do , Helen and Mrs. Hull having done all that was necessary , but she went from room to room , lingering longest in Morris 's own apartment , where she made some alterations in the arrangement of the furniture , putting one chair a little more to the right , and pushing a stand or table to the left , just as her artistic eye dictated . 
By some oversight no flowers had been put in there , but Katy gathered a bouquet and left it on the mantel , just where she remembered to have seen flowers when Morris was at home . 
`` He will be tired , '' she said . 
`` He will lie down after dinner , '' and she laid a few sweet English violets upon his pillow , thinking their perfume might be grateful to him after the pent-up air of the hospital and cars . 
`` He will think Helen put them there , or Mrs. Hull , '' she thought , as she stole softly out and shut the door behind her , glancing next at the clock , and feeling a little impatient that a whole hour must elapse before they could expect him . 
while keen as the cut of a sharpened knife was the pang with which he thought of Katy , and wondered would she care if he were blind . 
He could not by sight distinguish one from the other , but without the aid of her voice he would have known when Katy 's hand was put in his , it was so small , so soft , and trembled so as he held it . 
She forgot Wilford in her excitement . 
Pity was the strongest feeling of which she was conscious , and it manifested itself in various ways . 
Let melead you , Cousin Morris , '' she said , as she saw him groping his way to his room , and without waiting for his reply , she held his hand again in hers and led him to his room , where the English violets were . 
The tone of his voice was inexpressibly sad , but his smile was as cheerful as ever as his face turned towards Katy , who could not answer for her tears . 
Towards the middle of July , Helen , whose health was suffering from her anxiety concerning Mark , was taken by Mrs. Banker to Nahant , where Mark 's sister , Mrs. Ernst , was spending the summer , and thus on Katy fell the duty of paying to Morris those acts of sisterly attention such as no other member of the family knew how to pay . 
In the room where he lay so helpless Katy was not afraid of him , nor did she deem herself faithless to Wilford 's memory , because each day found her at Linwood , sometimes bathing Morris 's inflamed eyes , sometimes bringing him the cooling drink , and again reading to him by the hour , until , soothed by the music of her voice , he would fall away to sleep and dream he heard the angels sing . 
`` My eyes are getting better , '' he said to her one day toward the latter part of August , when she came as usual to his room . 
Very soon , I hope to see you , Katy , and know if you have changed . '' 
She was standing close by him , and as he talked he raised his hand to rest it on her head , but , with a sudden movement , Katy eluded the touch , and stepped a little further from him . 
When next she went to Linwood there was in her maner a shade of dignity , which both amused and interested Morris . 
He did not know for certain that Wilford had told Katy of the confession made that memorable night when her recovery seemed so doubtful , but he more than half suspected it from the shyness of her manner , and from the various excuses she began to make for not coming to Linwood as often as she had heretofore done . 
In his great pity for Katy when she was first a widow , Morris had scarcely remembered that she was free , or if it did flash upon his mind , he thrust the thought aside as injustice to the dead ; but as the months and the year went by , and he heard constantly from Helen of Katy 's increasing cheerfulness , it was not in his nature never to think of what might be , and more than once he had prayed , that if consistent with his Father 's will , the woman he had loved so well , should yet be his . 
The weary weeks of sickness , during which Katy had ministered to him so kindly , had not been without their effect , and if Morris had loved the frolicsome , child-like Katy Lennox , he loved far more the gentle , beautiful woman , whose character had been so wonderfully developed by suffering , and who was more worthy of his love than in her early girlhood . 
`` I can not lose her now , '' was the thought constantly in Morris 's mind , as he experienced more and more how desolate were the days which did not bring her to him . 
`` Surely , she would some day be his own , '' and leaning his head upon the cane he carried , he prayed earnestly for the good he coveted , keeping his head down so long that , until it had left the strip of woods and emerged into the open fields , he did not see the figure wrapped in water-proof and hood , with a huge umbrella over its head and a basket upon its arm , which came picking its way daintily toward the house , stopping occasionally , and lifting up the little high-heeled Balmoral , which the mud was ruining so completely . 
Katy was coming to Linwood . 
It had been baking-day at the farm-house , and remembering how much Morris used to love her custards , Aunt Betsy had prepared him some , and asked Katy to take them over , so he could have them for tea . 
`` The rain wo n't hurt you an atom , '' she said as Katy began to demur , and glance at the lowering sky . 
Thus importuned , Katy consented to go , but declined the loan of Aunt Betsy 's shaker , which being large of the kind , and capeless , too , was not the most becoming head-gear a woman could wear . 
With the basket of custards , and cup of jelly , Katy finally started , Aunt Betsy saying to her , as she stopped to take up her dress , `` It must be dretful lonesome for Morris to-day . 
Katy made no reply , and walked away , while Aunt Betsy went back to the coat she was patching for her brother , saying to herself , `` I 'm bound to fetch that round . 
Aunt Betsy had turned match-maker in her old age , and day and night she planned how to bring about the match between Morris and Katy . 
That they were made for each other , she had no doubt . 
From something which Helen inadvertently let fall , she had guessed that Morris loved Katy prior to her marriage with Wilford . 
She had suspected as much before ; she was sure of it now , and straightway put her wits to work `` to make it go , '' as she expressed it . 
But Katy was too shy to suit her , and since Morris 's convalescence , had staid too much from Linwood . 
With no suspicion whatever of the good dame 's intentions , Katy picked her way to Linwood , and leaving her damp garments in the hall , went at once into the library , where Morris was sitting near to a large chair kept sacred for her , his face looking unusually cheerful , and the room unusually pleasant , with the bright wood fire on the hearth . 
`` I have been so lonely , with no company but the rain , '' he said , pushing the chair a little towards her , and bidding her sit near the fire , where she could dry her feet . 
Katy obeyed , and sat down so near to him that had he chosen he might have touched the golden hair , fastened in heavy coils low on her neck , and giving to her a very girlish appearance , as Morris thought , for he could see her now , and while she dried her feet he looked at her eagerly , wondering that the fierce storm she had encountered had left so few traces upon her face . 
Just about the mouth there was a deep cut line , but this was all ; the remainder of the face was fair and smooth as in her early girlhood , and far more beautiful , just as her character was lovelier , and more to be admired . 
Morris had done well to wait if he could win her now . 
Perhaps he thought so , too , and this was why his spirits became so gay as he kept talking to her , suggesting at last that she should stay to tea . 
She could not go then , even had she wished it , and though it was earlier than his usual time , Morris at once rang for Mrs. Hull , and ordered that tea be served as soon possible . 
It is not proper , '' Katy kept thinking , as she fidgeted in her chair , and watched the girl setting the table for two , and occasionally deferring some debatable point to her as if she were mistress there . 
It was Katy who toasted the bread , kneeling upon the hearth , burning her face and scorching the bread in her nervousness at the novel position in which she so unexpectedly found herself . 
It was Katy , too , who prepared Morris 's tea , and tried to eat , but could not . 
She was not hungry , she said , and the custard was the only thing she tasted , besides the tea , which she sipped at frequent intervals so as to make Morris think she was eating more than she was . 
Possibly she suspected his intention , and if so , the sooner he reached the point the better . 
So when the tea equipage was put away , and she began again to speak of going home , he said , `` No , Katy , you ca n't go yet , till I have said what 's in my mind to say , '' and laying his hand upon her shoulder he made her sit down beside him and listen while he told her of the love he had borne for her long before she knew the meaning of that word as she knew it now -- of the struggle to keep that love in bounds after its indulgence was a sin ; of his temptations and victories , of his sincere regret for Wilford , and of his deep respect for her grief , which made her for a time as a sister to him . 
She was not his sister now , nor ever could be again . 
She was Katy , dearer , more precious , more desired even than before another called her wife , and he asked her to be his , to come up there to Linwood and live with him , making the rainy days brighter , balmier , than the sunniest had ever been , and helping him in his work of caring for the poor and sick around them . 
And Katy felt it all , understanding what it was to be offered such a love as Morris offered , but only comprehending in part what it would be to refuse that love . 
For her blinded judgment said she must refuse it . 
Had there been no sad memories springing from that grave in Greenwood , no bitter reminiscences connected with her married life -- had Wilford never heard of Morris 's love and taunted her with it , she might perhaps consent , for she craved the rest there would be with Morris to lean upon . 
But the happiness was too great for her to accept . 
It would seem too much like faithlessness to Wilford , too much as if he had been right , when he charged her with preferring Morris to himself . 
`` It can not be ; -- oh , Morris , it can not be , '' she sobbed , when he pressed her for an answer . 
She writhed herself from the arms which tried to detain her , and rising to her feet left the room suddenly , and throwing on her wrappings quitted the house without another word , leaving basket and umbrella behind , and never knowing she had left them , or how the rain was pouring down upon her unsheltered person , until , as she entered the narrow strip of woodland , she was met by Aunt Betsy , who exclaimed at seeing her , and asked , `` What has become of your umberell?Your silk one too . 
and coming closer to Katy , Aunt Betsy looked searchingly in her face . 
Katy asked , half indignantly , as she began in part to understand her aunt 's great anxiety for her to visit Linwood that afternoon . 
she asked , hoping Katy had relented . 
But Katy had not ; and with a toss of her head , which shook the rain drops from her capeless shaker , Aunt Betsy went on her way , and was soon confronting Morris , sitting just where Katy had left him , and looking very pale and sad . 
But with his usual affability , he bade Aunt Betsy sit down , shivering a little when he saw her in the chair where Katy had sat , her thin , angular body presenting a striking contrast to the graceful , girlish figure which had sat there an hour since , and the huge India rubbers she held up to the fire , as unlike as possible to the boot of fairy dimensions he had admired so much when it was drying on the hearth . 
Neither does Katy , and all she needs is a little urging , to tell you yes . 
So ask her again , will you ? '' 
Katy knew what she was doing , and meant what she said , '' Morris replied ; and with the consoling remark that if young folks would be fools it was none of her business to bother with them , Aunt Betsy pinned her shawl across her chest , and hunting up both basket and umbrella , bade Morris good night , and went back across the fields to the farm-house , hearing from Mrs. Lennox that Katy had gone to bed with a racking headache . 
Helen asked , when three weeks later she returned from New York , and at the hour for retiring sat in her chamber watching Katy as she brushed her hair , occasionally curling a tress around her fingers and letting it fall upon her snowy night-dress . 
They had been talking of Morris , whom Katy had seen but once since that rainy night , and that at church , where he had been the previous Sunday . 
Katy had written an account of the transaction to her sister , who had chosen to reply by word of month rather than by letter , and so the first moment they were alone she seized the opportunity to ask if Katy was of the same mind still as when she refused the doctor . 
Katy replied . 
Helen asked , abruptly , withnot waiting for Katy to finish her sentence . 
For an instant the hands stopped in their work , and Katy 's eyes filled with tears , which dropped into her lap as she replied , `` More than I wish I did , seeing I must always tell him no . 
She was sobbing now , with her head in Helen 's lap , and Helen , smoothing her bright hair , said gently , `` You do not reason correctly . 
Do you remember it , Katy ? '' 
and lifting up her face Katy looked at her sister with a wistfulness which told how anxiously she waited for the answer . 
He had been there two or three times since his return from Washington , but not since Katy 's refusal , and her cheeks were scarlet as she met him in the parlor and tried to be natural . 
He was not taking his rejection very hard , after all , she thought , and the little lady felt a very little piqued to find him so cheerful , when she had scarcely known a moment 's quiet since the day she carried him the custards and forgot to bring away her umbrella . 
During the evening he did not often address Katy directly , but he knew each time she moved , and watched every expression of her face , feeling a kind of pity for her , when , without appearing to do so intentionally , the family , one by one , stole from the room , -- Uncle Ephraim and Aunt Hannah without any excuse ; Aunt Betsy to mix the cakes for breakfast ; Mrs. Lennox to wind the clock , and Helen to find a book for which Morris had asked . 
Katy might not have thought strange of their departure , were it not that neither one came back again , and after the lapse of ten minutes or more she felt convinced that she had purposely been left alone with Morris . 
The weather and the family had conspired against her , but after one throb of fear she resolved to brave the difficulty , and meet whatever might happen as became a woman of twenty-three , and a widow . 
`` From Wilford , -- yes , '' Katy faltered . 
`` I understand now why you have been so shy of me , '' Morris said ; `` but , Katy , must this shyness continue always ? 
Katy looked wonderingly at him , and he continued , `` You said you could not be my wife . 
Katy 's cheeks were scarlet , and her hands had ceased to flutter about the knitting which lay upon her lap . 
`` I meant what I said , '' she whispered ; `` for , knowing how Wilford felt , it would not be right for me to be so happy . 
Is that it , Katy ? '' 
Morris asked , coming close to her now , and imprisoning her hands , which she did not try to take away , but let them lie in his as he continued , `` Wilford was willing at the last . 
`` I had , until Helen reminded me , '' Katy replied . 
She was beginning to relent , Morris knew , and bending nearer to her he said , `` It was not yesterday . 
I need you , Katy . 
Tell me , then , Katy , will you be my wife ? '' 
He was kissing her cold hands , and as he did so he felt her tears dropping on his hair . 
Katy was proving herself a true woman , who remembered only the good there was in Wilford , and Morris did not love her less for it . 
She was all the dearer to him , all the more desirable , and he told her so , winding his arms about her , and resting her head upon his shoulder , where it lay just as it had never lain before , for with the first kiss Morris gave her , calling her `` My own little Katy , '' she felt stealing over her the same indescribable peace she had always felt with him , intensified now , and sweeter from the knowing that it would remain if she should will it so . 
And she did will it so , kissing Morris back when he asked her to , and thus sealing the compact of her second betrothal . 
There were no tumultuous emotions , or ecstatic joys , but Katy felt in her inmost heart that she was happier now than then ; that between herself and Morris there was more affinity than there had been between herself and Wilford , and as she looked back over the road she had come , and remembered all Morris had been to her , she wondered at her blindness in not recognizing and responding to the love in which she had now found shelter . 
It was very late that night when Katy went up to bed , and Helen , who was not asleep , knew by the face on which the lamp-light fell that Morris had not sued in vain . 
Aunt Betsy knew it , too , next morning , by the same look on Katy 's face when she came down stairs , but this did not prevent her saying abruptly , as Katy stood by the sink , `` Be you two engaged ? '' 
`` We are , '' was Katy 's frank reply , which brought back all Aunt Betsy 's visions of roasted fowls and frosted cake , and maybe a dance in the kitchen , to say nothing of the feather bed which she had not dared to offer Katy Cameron , but which she thought would come in play for `` Miss Dr. Grant . '' 
It was after Katy 's betrothal , and Helen was in New York , hoping to hear news from Mark , and perhaps to see him ere long , for as nearly as she could trace him from reports of others , he was last at Andersonville . 
She is of age . 
Let her speak for herself . '' 
THOSE first warm days of March , 1865 , when spring and summer seemed to kiss each other and join hands for a brief space of time , how balmy , how still , how pleasant they were , and how bright the farm-house looked , where preparations for Katy 's second bridal were going rapidly forward . 
In the dining-room the table was set with the new China ware and silver , a joint Christmas gift from Helen and Katy to their good Aunt Hannah , as real mistress of the house . 
The coffee-urn was Katy 's , so was the tea-kettle and the massive pitcher , but the rest was `` ours , '' Aunt Betsy complacently reflected as she contemplated the glittering array , and then hurried off to see what was burning on the stove , stumbling over Morris as she went , and telling him `` he had come too soon -- it was not fittin ' for him to be there under foot until he was wanted . '' 
Without replying directly to Aunt Betsy , Morris knocked with a vast amount of assurance at a side-door , which opened directly , and Katy 's glowing face looked out , and Katy 's voice was heard , saying joyfully , `` Oh , Morris , it 's you . 
I 'm so glad you 've come , for I wanted '' -- But what she wanted was lost to Aunt Betsy by the closing of the door , and Morris and Katy were alone in the little sewing room where latterly they had passed so many quiet hours together , and where lay the bridal dress with its chaste and simple decorations . 
Katy had clung tenaciously to her mourning robe , asking if she mightwear black , as ladies sometimes did . 
And so black was laid aside , and Katy , in soft tinted colors , with her bright hair curling on her neck , looked as girlish and beautiful as if in Greenwood there were no pretentious monument , with Wilford 's name upon it , nor any little grave in Silverton where Baby Cameron slept . 
She had been both wife and mother , but she was quite as dear to Morris as if she had never borne other name than Katy Lennox , and as he held her for a moment to his heart he thanked God who had at last given to him the idol of his boyhood and the love of his later years . 
Across their pathway no shadow was lying , except when they remembered Helen , on whom the mantle of widowhood had fallen just as Katy was throwing it off . 
the tears always crept to Katy 's eyes when she thought of her , and now , as she saw her steal across the road and strike into the winding path which led to the pasture where the pines and hemlock grew , she nestled closer to Morris , and whispered , `` Sometimes I think it wrong to be so happy when Helen is so sad . 
She had tried to keep up through the preparations for Katy 's bridal , tried to seem interested and even cheerful , while all the time a hidden agony was tugging at her heart , and life seemed a heavier burden than she could bear . 
All her portion of the work was finished now , and in the balmy brightness of that warm April afternoon she went into the fields where she could be alone beneath the soft summer-like sky , and pour out her pent-up anguish into the ear of Him who had so often soothed and comforted her when other aids had failed . 
Last night , for the first time since she heard the dreadful news , she had dreamed of Mark , and when she awoke she still felt the pressure of his lips upon her brow , the touch of his arm upon her waist , and the thrilling clasp of his warm hand as it pressed and held her own . 
But that was a dream , a cruel delusion , and its memory made the more dark and dreary as she went slowly up the beaten path , pausing once beneath a chestnut tree and leaning her throbbing head against the shaggy bark as she heard in the distance the shrill whistle of the downward train from Albany , and thought as she always did when she heard that whistle , `` Oh , if that heralded Mark 's return , how happy I should be . '' 
But many sounds like that had echoed across the Silverton hills , bringing no hope to her , and now as it again died away in the Cedar Swamp she pursued her way up the path till she reached a long white ledge of rocks -- `` The lovers ' Rock , '' some called it , for village boys and maidens knew the place , repairing to it often , and whispering their vows beneath the overhanging pines , which whispered back again , and told the winds the story which though so old is always new to her who listens and to him who tells . 
ON the same train with Mrs. Banker and Mark , Bell Cameron came with Bob , but father Cameron was not able to come ; he would gladly have done so if he could , and he sent his blessing to Katy with the wish that she might be very happy in her second married life . 
This message Bell gave to Katy , and then tried to form some reasonable excuse for her mother 's and Juno 's absence , for she could not tell how haughtily both had declined the invitation , Juno finding fault because Katy had not waited longer than two years , and Mrs. Cameron blaming her for being so very vulgar as to be married at home , instead of in church . 
On this point Katy herself had been a little disquieted , feeling how much more appropriate it was that she be married in the church , but shrinking from standing again a bride at the same altar where she had once before been made a wife . 
She could not do it , she finally decided ; there would be too many harrowing memories crowding upon her mind , and as Morris did not particularly care where the ceremony was performed , it was settled that it should be at the house , even though Mrs. Deacon Bannister did say that `` she had supposed Dr. Grant too High Churchto do anything so Presbyteriannyas that . '' 
`` And I brought your pearls , for you will be most as much a bride as Katy , and I have a pride in seeing my son 's wife appropriately dressed . '' 
`` They are waiting for you , '' was said several times , and down the stairs passed Mark Ray and Helen , Lieut. Bob and Bell , with Dr. Grant and Katy , whose face , as she stood again before the clergyman and spoke her marriage vows , shone with a strange , peaceful light , which made it seem to those who gazed upon her like the face of some pure angel . 
There was no thought then of that deathbed in Georgetown -- no thought of Greenwood or the little grave in Silverton , where the crocuses and hyacinths were blossoming -- no thought of anything save the man at her side , whose voice was so full and earnest as it made the responses , and who gently pressed the little hand as he fitted the wedding-ring . 
It was over at last , and Katy was Morris 's wife , blushing now as they called her Mrs. Grant , and putting up her rosebud lips to be kissed by all who claimed that privilege . 
And so it happened that there was no dancing at Katy 's wedding , and Uncle Ephraim escaped the reproof which his brother deacon would have felt called upon to give him had he permitted so grievous a sin , while Mrs. Deacon Bannister , who , at the first trip of the toe would have departed lest her eyes should look upon the evil thing , was permitted to remain until `` it was out , '' and the guests retired en masseto their respective homes . 
The carriage from Linwood stood at the farm-house door , and Katy , wrapped in shawls and hood , was ready to go with her husband . 
There were no tears shed at this parting , for their darling was not going far away ; her new home was just across the fields , and through the soft moonlight they could see its chimney tops , and trace for some little distance the road over which the carriage went bearing her swiftly on ; her hands fast locked in Morris 's , her head upon his arm , and the hearts of both too full of bliss for either to speak a word until Linwood was reached , when , folding Katy to his bosom in a passionate embrace , Morris said to her , `` We are home at last -- your home and mine , my precious , precious wife . '' 
He had ordered it kindled there , for he had a fancy ere he slept to see fulfilled a dream he had dreamed so often , of Katy sitting as his wife in the chair across the hearth , where he placed her now , himself removing her shawl and hood ; then kneeling down before her , with his arm around her waist and his head upon her shoulder , he prayed aloud to the God who had brought her there , asking His blessing upon their future life , and dedicating himself and all he had to his Master 's service . 
THE scene shifts now to New York , where , one week after that wedding in Silverton , Mark and Helen went , together with Morris and Katy . 
That house had been sold , and Katy saw it but once , her tears falling fast as , driving slowly by with Morris , she gazed at the closed doors and windows of what was once her home , and around which lingered no pleasant memories save that it was the birthplace of baby Cameron . 
Lieutenant Reynolds had thought to buy it , but Bell said , `` No , it would not be pleasant for Katy to visit me there , and I mean to have her with me as much as possible . '' 
So the house went to strangers , and a less pretentious but quite as comfortable one was bought for Bell , so far up town that Juno wondered how her sister would manage to exist so far from everything , intimating that her visits would be far between , a threat which Lieutenant Bob took quite heroically ; indeed , it rather enhanced the value of his pleasant home than otherwise , for Juno was not a favorite , and his equanimity was not likely to be disturbed if she never crossed his threshold . 
She was throwing bait to Arthur Grey , the man who swore he was fifty to escape the draft , and who , now that the danger was over , would gladly take back his oath and be forty , as he really was . 
With the most freezing kiss imaginable Juno greeted Katy , calling her `` Mrs. Grant , '' and treating Morris as if he were an entire stranger , instead of the man whom to get she would once have moved both earth and heaven . 
Mrs. Cameron , too , though glad that Katy was married , and fully approving her choice , threw into her manner so much reserve that Katy 's intercourse with her was anything but agreeable , and she turned with alacrity to father Cameron , who received her with open arms , calling her his daughter , and welcoming Morris as his son , taken in Wilford 's stead . 
Greatly he wished that they should stay with him while they remained in New York , but Katy preferred going to Mrs. Banker 's , where she would be more quiet , and avoid the bustle and confusion attending the preparations for Bell 's wedding . 
Softly the May rain falls on Linwood , where the fresh green grass is springing and the early spring flowers blooming , and where Katy stands for a moment in the bay window of the library , listening to the patter on the tin roof overhead , and gazing wistfully down the road , as if watching for some one ; then turning , she enters the dining-room and inspects the supper table , for her mother , Aunt Hannah , and Aunt Betsy are visiting her this rainy afternoon , while Morris , on his return from North Silverton , is to call for Uncle Ephraim and bring him home to tea . 
Linwood is a nice place to visit , and the old ladies enjoy it vastly , especially Aunt Betsy , who never tires of telling what they have `` over to Katy 's , '' and whose capeless shaker hangs often on the hall stand , just as it hangs now , while she , good soul , sits in the pleasant parlor , and darns the socks for Morris , taking as much pains as if it were a network of fine lace she was weaving , instead of a shocking rent in some luckless heel or toe . 
Up stairs there is a pleasant room which Katy calls Aunt Betsy 's , and in it is the feather bed , '' which never found its way to Madison Square . 
Morris himself did not think much of feathers , but he made no objections when Aunt Betsy insisted upon Katy 's having the bed kept for so many years , and only smiled a droll kind of smile when he one morning met it coming up the walk in the wheelbarrow which Uncle Ephraim trundled . 
Morris and his young wife are very happy together and Katy finds the hours of his absence very long , especially when left alone . 
Even to-day the time drags heavily , and she looks more than once from the bay window , until at last Brownie 's head is seen over the hill , and a few moments after Morris 's arm is round her shoulders , and her lips are upturned for the kiss he gives as he leads her into the house , chiding her for exposing herself to the rain , and placing in her hand three letters , which she does not open until the cozy tea is over and her family friends have gone . 
Then , while her husband , looks over his evening paper , she breaks the seals one by one , reading first the letter from `` Mrs. Bob Reynolds , '' who has returned from the West , and who is in the full glory of her bridal calls . 
`` I was never so happy in my life as I am now , '' she wrote . 
You do n't know , Katy , how much father thinks of you , blessing the day which brought you to us , and saying that if he is ever saved , he shall in a great measure owe it to your influence and consistent life after the great trouble came upon you , '' There were tears in Katy 's eyes as she read this letter from Bell , and with a mental prayer of thanksgiving that she had been of any use in guiding even one to the Shepherd 's Fold , she took next the letter whose superscription brought back so vividly to her mind the daisy-covered grave in Alnwick . 
Marian , who was now at Annapolis , caring for the returned prisoners , did not write often , and her letters were prized the more by Katy , who read with a beating heart the kind congratulations upon her recent marriage , sent by Marian Hazelton . 
`` I knew how it would end , when you were in Georgetown , '' she wrote , `` and I am glad that it is so , praying daily that you may be happy with Dr. Grant and remember the sad past only as some dream from which you have awakened . 
For a long time Katy held this letter in her hand , wondering if the sorrowful woman whose life was once so strangely blended with that of Marian Hazelton , could be the Katy Grant who sat by the evening fire at Linwood , with the sunshine of perfect happiness resting on her heart . 
`` Truly He doeth all things well to those who wait upon Him , '' she thought , as she laid down Marian 's letter and took up the third and last , Helen 's letter , dated at Fortress Monroe , whither , with Mark Ray , she had gone just after Bell Cameron 's bridal . 
I kissed her , Katy -- all black , and rough , and uncouth as she was . 
I am getting together a curious household , you will say ; but I like to have those about me to whom I can do the greatest amount of good , and as I happen to know how much Mattie admires ` the Lennox girls , ' I did not hesitate to take her . 
You can guess who she is , Katy . 
There were great tear blots upon that letter as Katy put it aside , and nestling close to Morris , laid her head upon his knee , where his hand could smooth her golden curls , while she pondered Helen 's closing words , thinking how much they expressed , and how just a tribute they were to the noble woman whose life had been one constant sacrifice of self for another 's good -- `` The soldiers call her an angel , but we know her as Marian . '' 
