Aunt Sally went close to her husband , as if she looked no further than to him for aid ; it was not for her even to pray , except as Peter did . 
A good and loving woman she was , but with too little reliance on herself -- too much upon Peter . 
Uncle Peter , having tried to say `` afflictions spring not from the dust , '' snuffed the candle , and taking up a newspaper , which chanced to lie on a chair by his side , appeared rather unconcerned in the events about him than absorbed in the reading , while , nervous and pale , Aunt Sally sat on a low stool at his feet , looking wistfully on him , through her tears . 
`` Oh , Peter ! '' 
`` Oh , Peter , what shall I do ? '' 
I listened at first , for his presence awed me , and looking at the ruffle of his shirt , and the jewelled ring on his finger , and his soft brown hair -- I did n't know it was a wig -- I was for a moment still . 
There must be wisdom in his words ; I was sure of that ; and more especially was I so when Aunt Sally said , giving her husband a loving look , `` You must thank your uncle for being so good to you ; many a little girl has n't any Uncle Peter to give her good advice when her mother dies . '' 
Here Aunt Sally closed her eyes -- that judiciouslyshe did not quite understand ; it was too wonderful for her , that was all ; and Uncle Peter went on to say , that if , in the dispensations of Providence , afflictments should be sent upon him -- such as the loss of his dear companion , my Aunt Sarah -- he would endeavor to be resigned ; he knew , in fact , that under any afflictment he would be patient and calm . 
Their home was a dozen miles from ours , and Uncle Peter had no time to visit , so he said ; perhaps it was so ; I am sure he had no time to visit poor relations . 
Uncle Peter never once thought that himself could be at fault -- that he was not too large , nor his coat too small , were fixed facts ; therefore it followed that poor Aunt Sally was extremely inefficient . 
Uncle Peter thought he would ride home and try to get a little rest -- -LRB- he had slept in his chair except at intervals when he had philosophized for my benefit -RRB- all the night . 
`` Now , children , '' he said , as he took leave , `` you must not cry when they lay your mother in the coffin , nor when they put her in the grave ; we must all die when our time comes ; and to murmur is to complain of the will of the Lord -- it ai n't nothing else under the sun -- that 's just what it is ; now , if you cry , you will offend Heaven , and what is more , you will very much displease your Uncle Peter . '' 
Mrs. Perrin was a simple old woman in his eyes , who might watch with the sick , but to whom his wisdom was a sealed book . 
I WILL pass over the funeral , the breaking up of our broken household , the parting with our father , who went to visit the home of his boyhood , far across the mountains , and resume my narrative the day when , with little parcels in our hands , containing all our effects , we were helped into Uncle Peter 's coach , and , partly laughing and partly crying , carried to his fine house to live . 
He smiled graciously , and drawing down the window directed Westley , the coachman , to drive slow , and give his little wards a view of `` the scenergy about the Hall . '' 
I was trying to make a picture of it , the beautiful house , when Uncle Peter assuming a grave aspect , said , `` My little wards , I have one request , which is , that you will hereafter address me as Uncle Samuel Peter ; that is my name , wards , and it sounds better to the ear than simple Peter . '' 
`` Simple Peter , I think , '' whispered Rosie to me . 
asked Uncle Samuel Peter . 
`` That Samuel Peter is greatly more dignified than simply Peter , '' she replied , looking earnest and serious . 
`` And shall we say Aunt Sarah , Uncle Samuel Peter ? '' 
`` Were you ever sick , Uncle Samuel Peter ? '' 
`` No , Uncle Samuel Peter -- that was why I asked -- you looked so remarkably well for your years , '' she went on . 
`` Why , '' she continued , as if pursuing the same train of thought , `` you must be forty , Uncle Samuel Peter , ai n't you ? '' 
`` Yes , my darling ward , about that , '' he replied , stroking his chin . 
he said , and put his hand through Rosie 's hair , caressingly and admiringly . 
She laughed , shaking loose her curls , and asked something about `` Throckmorton Hall , '' not forgetting the entire name of Samuel Peter . 
Rosie knew intuitively how to read human nature ; I did not know then , nor why it was she said Uncle Samuel Peter , while I said nothing . 
our success in this world depends greatly on the facility with which we can say Uncle Samuel Peter ! 
Peter , simply , will not do at all . 
Whether she lived at the Hall or at the old homestead was the same to her , so far as pride and humility were concerned ; but she saw that Uncle Peter looked down on our homestead , and so , smiling at his weakness , she seemed to look up to the Hall ; I really thought it a much finer place than our little farm ; but this availed nothing -- I could not say Samuel Peter , half so smoothly as she . 
`` Why , Uncle Samuel Peter ! '' 
She did not say any more , but her tone and manner implied to him wonder , admiration , and curiosity , and a great deal of general interest besides . 
at the same time : I forgot to add the Peter , in my earnestness ; but Rosie was not so earnest as to forget a matter thus important , and the consequence was that my exclamation elicited no attention , and our uncle said , `` Because , my ward , '' not my wards , `` I would like to make an example of myself ; I would like to show the world what heroism , under affliction , is . 
`` O , Uncle Samuel Peter , '' answered Rosie , `` you ca n't make yourself seem old to me , if you are forty , '' and she ran on at once with some inquiry about the Hall , so Uncle Peter altogether forgot the irreverence . 
he answered ? 
`` I believe , madam , I must say good evening , '' and uncle Peter bowed politely . 
Rosalie was greatly amused by this `` vision of a lady , '' as she called our meeting with Mrs. Muggins , and Uncle Samuel Peter laughed immoderately at the charming humor of his ward , scarcely ceasing till we arrived at the gate of Throckmorton Hall . 
Rosie clapped her hands , saying , `` No wonder Uncle Samuel Peter keeps young , in a place like this ; '' and away she ran , up one walk and down another , delighted as a spring bird , while I walked silently and bashfully toward the house . 
There were tears in Aunt Sally 's eyes as she met me -- I thought at first because she was so glad to see me ; but with a glance and a smile she went right past me , and throwing her arms about Uncle Peter , embraced him as though she had not seen him for twenty years . 
she repeated over and again , holding his hands and looking in his face as a saint would look into heaven . 
Uncle Peter had no reading chair , and she knew it before she set out on her fruitless search , but so accustomed was she to making some sort of shift to meet his wishes , that she would have essayed to obey him if he had told her to bring in the moon . 
that unpronounceable Samuel Peter I.T. cost me a great deal . 
He always kept half a dozen apertures in the crown of his hat for the admission of air , wore a galvanized ring , which was almost concealed by the superabundant wealth of flesh upon his fingers ; and would never taste the milk of a black cow -- to him it was rank poison . 
With the first sight of Uncle Peter , completely filling the seat of his sulky , there was an impression that he was a superior character . 
The weight of his opinion , in the neighborhood affairs , as against that of little Jenkins , the saddler , could be determined exactly by the scales in front of the tavern . 
How could my Uncle Peter be so much richer than Jenkins except by his greater wit , his sounder judgment , his more indefectable virtue ? 
He was great in person , great in property , great in the esteem of his neighbors , and unapproachably great in his own conceit . 
I remember , as an illustration of the importance in which his opinion was held , that when a new turnpike was made , the judgment of all inferior stockholders yielded to his , and a bend which took in various hills and hollows , was made , greatly to the detriment of the general interest , merely for the sake of avoiding Uncle Peter 's barn . 
On returning from a dinner party at Squire Thornton 's , one day , Uncle Peter professed himself somewhat indisposed , and though , perhaps , a little exercise and abstinence would have operated as restoratives , he was of a different opinion , and tumbling himself into bed , and being smothered in blankets , and having hot bricks at his feet , sought by a liberal allowance of confections to renew the healthy action of his digestive organs . 
It soon became apparent , notwithstanding Uncle Peter 's stoical pretensions hitherto , that he was likely to make an example of himself not at all in keeping with his promises or his intentions . 
`` My dear Mrs. Throckmorton , I wish you could , '' Uncle Peter would answer , and Aunt Sally thought he was very good to notice her at all . 
Such a groaning and moaning he made , and Aunt Sally so often wiped her eyes , that my sympathies were enlisted , and I feared Uncle Peter really would die , especially when the great surgeon , Dr. Cutaway , was sent for . 
Rose seemed not at all astonished , but read on in some book in which she was interested , all the time , looking up now and then , it is true , to ask Uncle Samuel Peter how he felt . 
It did him good to see her so calm , Uncle Peter said : Mrs. Throckmorton and Orpha did him more harm than good by their officiousness . 
Uncle Peter had changed his mind , and would have him go first for Deacon Dole ; he felt in a serious frame of mind , and believed the deacon was a good man , if there was such a thing in the world . 
Aunt Sally freely admitted that she did not always know what she said ; but Uncle Peter was not to be pacified : he felt so awfully bad , how could he be ? 
`` I wish we had sent for Mrs. Perrin , '' he resumed , after an interval of groans . 
`` Yes , Uncle Samuel Peter , '' said Rosie , `` or to a less agreeable place . '' 
Uncle Peter left off groaning long enough to say his ward was the wittiest young lady he had ever the pleasure of knowing , but hastened to add , `` Oh ! 
Westley returned , bringing intelligence that the Deacon would be there almost as soon as himself ; but Uncle Peter persisted in sending for Mrs. Perrin -- `` She can ride over on your horse , and you can walk , '' he said ; `` there is no time to harness the horses . 
His answer was interrupted by a soft knocking on the door ; the deacon had waived all ceremony , in view of the urgency of the case , and entered the house without ringing . 
At length Uncle Peter announced his belief that he could not survive the night , upon which the deacon consulted , in whispers , with the almost frantic wife , and returning to the bedside , groaning sympathetically , applied cloths , wet with camphor , to the nose and mouth of the wretched man , and sedately waved before his face a large palm leaf fan , as if to keep life in him as long as possible . 
He wore a cheerful but interested look , and taking Uncle Peter 's hand , said he was right sick , but not dangerously so ; and after a little talk about the late damp weather , rheumatism , & c. , he grew more cheerful , spoke of the election , the next presidency , and affairs generally . 
Uncle Peter renewed his exclamations of `` Oh Sally Ann ! '' 
but was so exhausted physically , and so relieved mentally , that he presently fell asleep , and woke not until sunrise the next morning . 
Uncle Peter was prevailed upon , and so much better in consequence of the sleep he had had , that he actually arose , and in gown and slippers awaited the consultation ; and furthermore , he expressed a hope that that miserable bore , Mr. Hatfield , would not trouble him with his simples . 
Uncle Peter thanked him civilly , and , without communicating the fact of Mr. Middleton 's visit , or its result , managed politely to get his honest-minded friend out of the house before the arrival of the doctor ; and well it was for Mr. Hatfield 's peace of mind that he did so , as otherwise he would have seen his precious preparations very contemptuously tossed aside . 
Aunt Sally could not be thankful enough ; she had prayed all night for her dear hus-band 's resforation , she said , but did n't suppose it was at all probable that herprayers had been answered ; Samuel must have prayed for himself , though she had not heard him . 
The doctor was formal , ostentatious , and wise ; and Uncle Peter was so much pre-possessed in his favor , that he almost regretted having sent for the surgeon . 
He inquired minutely all the symptoms , replying , as each was unfolded , `` Oh , yes , I supposed so ! 
and the like ; and left half-a-dozen small powders , neatly folded in white paper , with a phial containing some liquid , having an unpronounceable name ; and enjoining the strictest observance as to times and small quantities , took his departure . 
Aunt Sally could not see in what way he had manifested his skill ; nevertheless , she had no doubt that it was as Mr. Throckmorton asserted . 
said Uncle Samuel Peter . 
The smell of the medicine affected her unpleasantly , she said to Uncle Samuel Peter . 
Uncle Peter began to feel that everybody was his friend again , and even when Mrs. Rachel Muggins was announced , he smiled , and answered -- `` Let the woman come up , bless her ; it is kind of her , I am sure , to come and see me . '' 
She had with her the hopeful darling who made the fourth of a donkey 's load , when we first saw her , and as she talked and combed her hair , he stood pulling at her dress , and teasing her . 
`` Rache , gim me some , '' he said ; `` I 'll bite you , if you do n't -- gim me some , I say -- I 'm hungerry ! 
He wore stout boots and kicked at his mother by way of enforcing each appeal . 
she exclaimed , when at last he succeeded in gaining her attention , `` Mother will whip you till you hai n't hide nor skin of you left , if you do n't behave yourself . 
Uncle Peter was sure that good Mrs. Muggins had been sent to him by some intervention of Providence . 
he asked , again and again , and as Aunt Sally could not , by any possibility , have thought anything else , Westley was sent , post-haste , the distance of twelve miles , and in due time returned , accompanied by Dr. Snakeroot , with a variety of dried roots , snake skins , herbs , bears ' ears , & c. Simples were soon simmering in sheep 's milk and the blood of a pullet ; charms were uttered ; and the miraculous course of treatment began . 
Uncle Peter , now too ill to offer much opposition , said he was `` willing to try anything '' -- some young men might be wiser , for aught he knew , than some old ones . 
One thing was sure , he could not live long in the state in which he was ; Sally Ann and his dear ward , and everybody who had seen him , knew that ; and , thus encouraged , Mr. Clark Boots commenced operations . 
Uncle Peter was partially dressed , and assisted out of bed ; but to make a picture of him as he appeared jumping over a chair , defies my power . 
He had little strength , and no courage to use that which he had . 
Even Rosalie , who could not help seeing how ludicrous was his appearance , began to feel a sincere pity for him . 
He was making this exhibition as well as example of himself , when , to his relief , a new visitor arrived , Mr. Tompkins . 
Uncle Peter felt easier , he said , and no doubt he did , having the weight of twenty blankets removed ; and Aunt Sally , kissing his hand -- she dared not kiss his cheek , I suppose -- and bathing his face with her tears , retired for a little repose We might make temporary beds , so as to be within call , Mrs. Graham said , and she would watch till midnight , and then take her turn of sleep ; but she did not unclose her eyes , as she said so , and otherwise exhibited such unmistakable fondness for the drowsy god , that we thought it advisable to remain awake . 
And Rose would glide out of the room , and remain till Uncle Peter had fallen asleep again , or in some new want quite forgot his taking leave of Aunt Sally . 
Now , as Uncle Peter had slept the greater part of the night , in consequence of not having Aunt Sally to humor all his whims , he was decidedly better , and , having partaken of toast and tea , professed himself desirous of receiving the professional services of Dr. Stafford Graham . 
Doctor Stafford Graham 's visit was very brief -- he had declined making it at his mother 's suggestion , he said , but had come at the earliest moment on receiving the summons of Uncle Peter through his man . 
He thought no medical aid whatever was necessary : care as to diet and a short drive in the open air would insure a night 's repose , and the following morning his patient , he was sure , would be in a condition to sanction his prescription . 
He begged of Aunt Sally to feel no alarm at all , on her husband 's account , as nature would speedily right herself with him , but rather to direct attention to her own case ; and as he took her feverish hand in his , his tenderness of manner and voice contrasted strangely with his proud and almost haughty bearing toward Uncle Peter . 
I could not divert my eyes from him , as he sat conversing with my dear aunt ; so exceedingly handsome was he , as his face lighted up with a kindly smile ; and yet his was hardly the kind of beauty to inspire a quick affection , and his carriage , though perfectly polite , was that of the worldling , not of the Christian . 
Uncle Peter was a good deal vexed that he had received so little attention , but his humiliating and Christianizing fears were subdued , and , strive as he would , he could not take himself back to the door of death . 
A dismal night set in , such as comes sometimes in seasons of the greatest beauty ; and the gloomy time imparted a sombre feeling to all , so that none of us were sorry when Uncle Peter renewed his request that Mrs. Perrin should be sent for . 
Presently , to the music of her voice , and our pleased surprise , Uncle Peter fell asleep , and after an hour , awoke quite revived ; he even thought he `` could eat a mouthful . '' 
Having eaten all his stomach would bear , he said -- we thought it was all it would hold -- he fell asleep again , and did not awake till broad daylight . 
True to her promise , Mrs. Perrin remained , nursing and watching , till Uncle Peter was quite well , and though all his visitors took to themselves the credit of effecting his cure , I have always thought she deserved the largest share of gratitude ; and Uncle Peter thought so , too , as the future proved . 
UNCLE PETER was quite recovered , but in compliment to his late severe illness he kept his chamber most of the time , and adhered pertinaciously to morning gown and slippers . 
Uncle Peter either would not , or could not believe that I was capable of doing him a favor . 
`` Yes , Uncle Samuel Peter , '' she answered , closing her book over one of her fingers , and leaving the room , with a sly nod at me . 
She had n't done justice to her subject , she seemed to think , in her first exclamations , and strove to make what amends she might by new ejaculations : `` Peter , the Hermit ! 
Uncle Peter said I was very stupid to lose myself in an acre of woodland , and Aunt Sally kissed me , when he did not see it , and told me , in a whisper , I had better go to bed ; it would be best for myself , she thought it would be best for the good nature of her husband ; and I affected to believe her , and obeyed . 
Now , Uncle Peter had no easy-chair , nor had he given Westley any orders about one , and Aunt Sally knew it , nevertheless she believedshe had heard such a direction ; and I heard her feebly supporting herself along the stair-case , and keeping down her cough , as she went in search of the myth . 
he replied , rubbing his hands , assured that she was gone especially for his pleasure . 
I bowed my head lower and lower over my fringing , that Uncle Peter might not see how much I was affected by his words , and Aunt Sally , quietly leaving the room , beckoned me to follow . 
Uncle Peter held the lost handkerchief in his hand ; but Aunt Sally attached no blame to him ; she blamed herself for having been so stupid as not to look about a little up stairs before going down . 
I STATED at the close of the chapter about Uncle Peter 's illness and the way he made an example of himself , that he felt more indebted to Mrs. Perrin than to any one else for his recovery . 
He would sometimes -LRB- and Mrs. Throckmorton remarked , that it was generally after eating a late supper , or the tapping of a new cask of the nice brandy which did him so much good -RRB- awake in the night , and groan , as if in extreme distress ; upon which occasions `` Mrs. Throckmorton '' was in the habit of saying : `` Peter , what isthe matter ? '' 
It might be that a blush would just have mantled her cheek as in fancy she heard Peter for the first time calling her `` My dear Mrs. Throckmorton , '' when the whole bed would move to a new paroxysm of the husband 's discontent , and the bride would awake but Sally Ann again . 
Here my aunt , weak and nervous , and a little irritable , and a great deal alarmed , would place her thin , trembling hand on Peter 's head , and ascertain how his pulse was , and add a blanket to the clothing , and see what was the time , and then in tenderest accents inquire how he felt , and if that frightful weight seemed at all lightened . 
Uncle Peter would generally be relieved at this juncture ; and upon one occasion he was sufficiently so to relate a dream which had disturbed him . 
`` I think he looks like you , Peter , if you had a gold crown on your head . '' 
When he has finished his survey , not omitting to peep under the bed , he nestles close to her , and begs that she will talk to him a little ; say something -- anything -- he do n't care what ; and his admiring wife , her eyes fast shut , revives , dreamingly , the happy memories of their bridal day ; repeats how the morning was bright , and how pretty Mr. Throckmorton said she looked ; and how they walked in the garden , and how the young husband was vexed because that she accepted some flowers from Colonel Mitchel , and how they sat in the arbor , not seeing the clouds till the rain began to fall , and so the white dress was soiled , and she compelled to assume the blue the first day . 
`` You see , '' said Uncle Peter , hitching his chair a little closer to her ; `` I am a grateful man , Mrs. Perrin , and to you I owe my life , I may say , and if I could persuade you to accept some trifle -- some antique , or something or other , of a high style of art , it would really be another charity . '' 
It was fearful to be indebted to any fellow-being , as he was . 
Great was the joy of Uncle Peter , when he learned that he could pay his debt of gratitude ; but the joy was of short duration , and Mrs. Perrin had no sooner packed her black silk dress , than an uneasy feeling took possession of his heart . 
He hoped she would make her visit a short one . 
To be sure , he was glad to have her make the visit , but two things still oppressed him : the sense of gratitude was in nowise lightened -- he was perfectly satisfied that money could not pay for some things , and he was still under as great obligations as ever ; and then , suppose he should get sick , and that estimable woman be out of the neighborhood , a hundred or two hundred miles away ! 
the thought was a terror to him . 
Mrs. Perrin was advised of his uneasiness , and when she told him she should not be from home more than two weeks , and that he looked so well she thought it would be quite impossible for him to get sick , if he should try , he almost concluded it would be so , and , ashamed of the fears he had expressed , shook hands cordially and wished her good-bye . 
But Uncle Peter , replied that it was useless for her to say what she did not think ; he knew he must look very bad , and as white as a corpse , and if she thought he was dying , it would be better to say it ; there was no use in trying to deceive him . 
The poet beautifully said , long before our doctrine prevailed , that is , to any great extent , -- for it has in all ages had its adherents -- `` He seems to know a good deal , '' whispered my aunt , and Uncle Peter smiled , and said he felt a little easier . 
She smiled encouragingly , and he seemed to take heart . 
Anything seemed better than a resort to his old tormentors . 
And , lifting himself on one elbow , he gazed at the sleeping Charity , in an agony of despair . 
Uncle Peter thought he breathed a little easier , and reclined on his pillow , looking more earnestly at heaven than he had ever looked till then . 
She saw the sun set , with tearful eyes ; she feared that Peter would not survive the night . 
It was the conviction of my aunt that dissolution would not immediately take place , but she dared not ask herself how soon she might be deprived of her Peter . 
As the time went by , he became more impressed with the notion that he should not live till morning . 
he exclaimed , `` I might as well call executioners , and write my will . 
Uncle Peter , propped on pillows , and with the open Bible for a desk , had written -- `` I , Peter I. T. Throckmorton , being of sound mind , and conscious of my liability to be called '' -- when the lively exclamation of `` Hi ! 
arrested his hand , and , lifting his eyes , he saw the old black dress of Mrs. Perrin , and Mrs. Perrin 's cheerful countenance above it . 
he said ; `` tell her how bad I am . '' 
She had discovered the cat , no matter how , she said , but she had discovered him , and he was making nimble leaps before her broomstick , when Peter and Sally Ann became conscious . 
He was better , oh , so much better ! 
It was an unmistakable evidence of it that he did n't say `` Sally Ann . '' 
and Uncle Peter , to whom this was addressed , said , `` Just a mouthful , '' not that he wanted it , but he thought it would be nourishing ; then his cup was refilled , only to keep the excellent woman company ; and she resumed : `` My grandfather was a man who had no faith in ghosts ; he never would allow one of his children to say ghost , I have heard my father say ; and he often said if there was any such thing to be seen he wished he could see it . 
We had been at Uncle Peter 's since March , and Rosalie had become mistress of the house , and of the garden , and fields almost , for she had her way in everything , while I was scarcely more at home than at first : I had not learned to say Uncle Samuel Peter , naturally and easily . 
It was nothing ; we must not listen to her complaints ; she was foolish to make them ; especially while Uncle Peter was so much worse than she ; if he were only well , she should soon be up again ! 
She wished she had a little more strength , and could do something for Uncle Peter ; she was afraid she should never see him well again . 
`` How thin you are growing , '' she said to him , as soon as she could speak at all : `` let me feel your pulse , my dear ; '' and she took his great , moist hand in her thin and dry one ; if he had had any soul or any heart , and not been the great lump of selfishness he was , he would have perceived how hot and transparent that little hand was , and would have cast himself down in meanness and abjectness before her goodness and purity . 
`` I do n't know any such thing , '' he replied ; `` she may have been here when I was unconscious of it ; and I am surprised that you presume to contradict me . '' 
Aunt Sally was frightened into submission , and not only directed that the woman be informed she was not in , but said to Uncle Peter that no doubt he was quite too ill , at the time of Mrs. Muggins 's visit , to retain any recollection of it -- violating her conscience for the sake of pleasing him . 
`` Well , Uncle Samuel Peter , '' said Rose , `` you ca n't determine what to do in the premises , can you ? '' 
and he set down his cane as though he had awarded her proper retribution . 
The awful news had the effect to warm Uncle Peter 's heart towards every body but the perpetrators of the crime , and Mrs. Muggins and he drank wine together . 
said Uncle Peter , as though nothing Polly Perrin could do would shock him further , and Mrs. Muggins proceeded : `` She 's a dreadful gossip , that woman is -- there is nothing happens far nor near that she has n't something to say about it ; she is as full of news as an egg is full of meat ; oh , she is a dreadful gossip . 
`` I thank my God , '' said Uncle Peter , but he looked as though he thanked himself , `` that my reputation ca n't suffer by anything that woman can say . 
And he had not , apparently , the remotest idea that that advice was suited to his own condition , as he walked up and down the room , in angry excitement . 
he asked , directly . 
And he called upon my aunt to say whether there was not something about that woman that she did n't exactly like . 
Uncle Peter could n't tell ; she might have been coining , for all he knew . 
Water was brought ; she had yet strength enough to raise her hand and push the cup towards Uncle Peter , and , waiting for him to drink , her eyes closed , and she became insensible . 
And , day by day , Uncle Peter brought a button to the bedside to be sewed on , or a torn glove to be mended , telling my aunt , to comfort her , that he was slowly gaining strength , though he had great reason to complain of his appetite , which , indeed , the cook had , also . 
Sometimes he would ask her if she felt like riding out with him that day , for he had the sun-set and the sun-rise to manage , outside of the Hall , and could not have neglected his drives about the neighborhood , on any account . 
She fretted that his obligations were so heavy that he must brave heat and dust ; and then , too , though he did not speak of it , it pained him to be from her side . 
She wished it would rain , on his account . 
He bent softly toward her , and spoke with a tenderness which her gay and independent nature had never seemed to me to demand . 
He would not listen to a perhaps ; it must be so . 
And , having laid his hand on a dry pine table , he received an impressionthat Mrs. Throckmorton 's little indisposition was solely owing to a deficiency of will . 
The guests came in , and were greeted by Uncle Peter with his customary phrase , and more than his customary self-importance ; the minister came , and gossipped of the last ten years ' marriages in the neighborhood ; and at length the solemn service was said , and , `` forsaking all others , '' my sister was the wife of Stafford Graham . 
She could not walk without him , and had asked for him till she was weary , and now sat quite still . 
`` My dear Mrs. Throckmorton , '' he said , at last , appearing at the door . 
For the first time she did not answer him . 
He had not come to help her as she had desired , and she was gone alone . 
