Up such a stair -- past such a window -LRB- through which the moonlight fell on her with a glory of many colours -RRB- -- Ruth Hilton passed wearily one January night , now many years ago . 
And yet more than a dozen girls still sat in the room into which Ruth entered , stitching away as if for very life , not daring to gape , or show any outward manifestation of sleepiness . 
They only sighed a little when Ruth told Mrs. Mason the hour of the night , as the result of her errand ; for they knew that , stay up as late as they might , the work-hours of the next day must begin at eight , and their young limbs were very weary . 
But Ruth Hilton sprang to the large old window , and pressed against it as a bird presses against the bars of its cage . 
She put back the blind , and gazed into the quiet moonlight night . 
Ruth pressed her hot forehead against the cold glass , and strained her aching eyes in gazing out on the lovely sky of a winter 's night . 
The impulse was strong upon her to snatch up a shawl , and wrapping it round her head , to sally forth and enjoy the glory ; and time was when that impulse would have been instantly followed ; but now , Ruth 's eyes filled with tears , and she stood quite still , dreaming of the days that were gone . 
Some one touched her shoulder while her thoughts were far away , remembering past January nights , which had resembled this , and were yet so different . 
`` Ruth , love , '' whispered a girl who had unwillingly distinguished herself by a long hard fit of coughing , `` come and have some supper . 
`` One run -- one blow of the fresh air would do me more good , '' said Ruth . 
answered Ruth . 
at home I have many a time run up the lane all the way to the mill , just to see the icicles hang on the great wheel , and when I was once out , I could hardly find in my heart to come in , even to mother , sitting by the fire ; -- even to mother , '' she added , in a low , melancholy tone , which had something of inexpressible sadness in it . 
said she , rousing herself , but not before her eyes were swimming in tears , `` own , now , that you never saw those dismal , hateful , tumble-down old houses there look half so -- what shall I call them ? 
But she put her arm round Ruth 's neck , and stood by her ; glad that the orphan apprentice , who was not yet inured to the hardship of a dressmaker 's workroom , should find so much to give her pleasure in such a common occurrence as a frosty night . 
Ruth 's place was the coldest and the darkest in the room , although she liked it the best ; she had instinctively chosen it for the sake of the wall opposite to her , on which was a remnant of the beauty of the old drawing-room , which must once have been magnificent , to judge from the faded specimen left . 
which lets every sound of the thread be heard as it goes eternally backwards and forwards , '' sobbed out Ruth , as she threw herself on her bed , without even undressing herself . 
`` Nay , Ruth , you know it wo n't be always as it has been to-night . 
Jenny 's advice was not resisted ; but before Ruth went to sleep , she said : `` Oh ! 
What was the matter with Ruth ? 
She was crying in her sleep as if her heart would break . 
`` Ruth ! 
Ruth ! '' 
said Ruth , sitting up in bed , and pushing back the masses of hair that were heating her forehead , `` I thought I saw mamma by the side of the bed , coming , as she used to do , to see if I were asleep and comfortable ; and when I tried to take hold of her , she went away and left me alone -- I do n't know where ; so strange ! '' 
Ruth was asleep again , even while she sighed . 
But to Ruth it was inexplicable . 
She had yawned , and loitered , and looked off at the beautiful panel , and lost herself in thoughts of home , until she fully expected the reprimand which at any other time she would have beensure to receive , and now , to her surprise , she was singled out as one of the most diligent ! 
Much as she longed for the delight of seeing the noble shire-hall -- the boast of the county -- and of catching glimpses of the dancers , and hearing the band ; much as she longed for some variety to the dull monotonous life she was leading , she could not feel happy to accept a privilege , granted , as she believed , in ignorance of the real state of the case ; so she startled her companions by rising abruptly and going up to Mrs. Mason , who was finishing a dress which ought to have been sent home two hours before : `` If you please , Mrs. Mason , I was not one of the most diligent ; I am afraid -- I believe -- I was not diligent at all . 
Ruth stood still an instant , although Mrs. Mason resumed her employment in a manner which any one but a `` new girl '' would have known to be intelligible enough , that she did not wish for any more conversation just then . 
But , looking up , she was struck afresh with the remarkable beauty which Ruth possessed ; such a credit to the house , with her waving outline of figure , her striking face , with dark eyebrows and dark lashes , combined with auburn hair and a fair complexion . 
diligent or idle , Ruth Hilton must appear to-night . 
Not a word more , '' as she fancied she saw Ruth again about to speak . 
you ought to have gone , not me , '' said Ruth , in no low voice to Miss Wood , as she sat down by her . 
Ruth . 
asked Mrs. Mason , in a half-dissatisfied tone , turning Ruth about ; for it was only her Sunday black silk , and was somewhat worn and shabby . 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' answered Ruth , quietly . 
`` I do not think he would send any if I wrote , '' answered Ruth , in a low voice . 
Mrs. Mason gave her a little push of dismissal , and Ruth fell into the ranks by her friend , Miss Wood . 
`` Never mind , Ruthie ; you 're prettier than any of them , '' said a merry , good-natured girl , whose plainness excluded her from any of the envy of rivalry . 
I know I am pretty , '' said Ruth , sadly , `` but I am sorry I have no better gown , for this is very shabby . 
`` Never mind , Ruth , '' said Jenny , `` you 've been looked at now , and Mrs. Mason will soon be too busy to think about you and your gown . '' 
`` Did you hear Ruth Hilton say she knew she was pretty ? '' 
whispered one girl to another , so loudly that Ruth caught the words . 
`` I could not help knowing , '' answered she , simply , `` for many people have told me so . '' 
At length these preliminaries were over , and they were walking briskly through the frosty air ; the free motion was so inspiriting that Ruth almost danced along , and quite forgot all about shabby gowns and grumbling guardians . 
The shire-hall was even more striking than she had expected . 
They quitted the place as Ruth and her companions entered . 
Then they stopped playing and talked , and their voices sounded goblin-like in their dark recess , where candles were carried about in an uncertain wavering manner , reminding Ruth of the flickering zig-zag motion of the will-o ' - the-wisp . 
Suddenly the room sprang into the full blaze of light , and Ruth felt less impressed with its appearance , and more willing to obey Mrs. Mason 's sharp summons to her wandering flock , than she had been when it was dim and mysterious . 
They had presently enough to do in rendering offices of assistance to the ladies who thronged in , and whose voices drowned all the muffled sound of the band Ruth had longed so much to hear . 
Still , if one pleasure was less , another was greater than she had anticipated . 
`` On condition '' of such a number of little observances that Ruth thought Mrs. Mason would never have ended enumerating them , they were allowed during the dances to stand at a side-door and watch . 
Ruth did not care to separate the figures that formed a joyous and brilliant whole ; it was enough to gaze , and dream of the happy smoothness of the lives in which such music , and such profusion of flowers , of jewels , elegance of every description , and beauty of all shapes and hues , were every-day things . 
She did not want to know who the people were ; although to hear a catalogue of names seemed to be the great delight of most of her companions . 
In fact , the enumeration rather disturbed her ; and to avoid the shock of too rapid a descent into the common-place world of Miss Smiths and Mr. Thomsons , she returned to her post in the anteroom . 
None were there but Ruth . 
So far she spoke sweetly and prettily . 
But now she addressed Ruth . 
And her voice became cold and authoritative . 
She was very pretty , with long dark ringlets and sparkling black eyes . 
These had struck Ruth in the hasty glance she had taken , before she knelt down to her task . 
She also saw that the gentleman was young and elegant . 
By way of showing a pretty child-like impatience , she began to beat time with her feet to the spirited air the band was playing . 
Ruth could not darn the rent in her dress with this continual motion , and she looked up to remonstrate . 
As she threw her head back for this purpose , she caught the eye of the gentleman who was standing by ; it was so expressive of amusement at the airs and graces of his pretty partner , that Ruth was infected by the feeling , and had to bend her face down to conceal the smile that mantled there . 
But not before he had seen it , and not before his attention had been thereby drawn to consider the kneeling figure , that , habited in black up to the throat , with the noble head bent down to the occupation in which she was engaged , formed such a contrast to the flippant , bright , artificial girl who sat to be served with an air as haughty as a queen on her throne . 
He took a candle from the table , and held it so that Ruth had more light . 
She did not look up to thank him , for she felt ashamed that he should have seen the smile which she had caught from him . 
`` I am sorry I have been so long , ma'am , '' said she , gently , as she finished her work . 
She rose . 
`` I would rather have had it torn than have missed that charming galoppe , '' said the young lady , shaking out her dress as a bird shakes its plumage . 
He was surprised that she gave no word or sign of thanks to the assistant . 
`` Oh -- of course , '' said she . 
Ruth received the flower silently , but with a grave , modest motion of her head . 
They had gone , and she was once more alone . 
Presently , her companions returned . 
`` Only her lace dress was torn , and I mended it , '' answered Ruth , quietly . 
They say he 's going to be married to her ; did he come , Ruth ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Ruth , and relapsed into silence . 
Ruth felt as if a dream had melted away , and she were once more in the actual world . 
How long it would be , even in the most favourable chance , before she should again enter the shire-hall ! 
Here was cold , biting mid-winter for her , and such as her -- for those poor beggars almost a season of death ; but to Miss Duncombe and her companions , a happy , merry time , when flowers still bloomed , and fires crackled , and comforts and luxuries were piled around them like fairy gifts . 
But Ruth fancied that Mr. Bellingham looked as if he could understand the feelings of those removed from him by circumstance and station . 
Ruth , then , had been watching him . 
Yet she had no idea that any association made her camelia precious to her . 
She believed it was solely on account of its exquisite beauty that she tended it so carefully . 
She told Jenny every particular of its presentation , with open , straight-looking eye , and without the deepening of a shade of colour . 
You ca n't think how nicely he did it , just when I was a little bit mortified by her ungracious ways . '' 
said Ruth , almost clasping her treasure as she placed it in water . 
`` That was before my time , '' said Ruth . 
It was long before Ruth followed her example . 
Even on a winter day , it was clear morning light that fell upon her face as she smiled in her slumber . 
He presented flower after flower to her in that baseless morning dream , which was all too quickly ended . 
Ruth was not inclined for , or capable of , much extra exertion ; and it would have tasked all her powers to have pleased her superior . 
Ruth reddened , and tears sprang to her eyes ; but she was so conscious of the falsity of the accusation , that she rebuked herself for being moved by it , and , raising her head , gave a proud look round , as if in appeal to her companions . 
inquired Mrs. Mason , fixing her eyes on Ruth . 
Such were the speeches which fell to Ruth 's share on this day of all days , when she was least fitted to bear them with equanimity . 
She left injunctions , and orders , and directions , and prohibitions without end ; but at last she was gone , and in the relief of her absence , Ruth laid her arms on the table , and , burying her head , began to cry aloud , with weak , unchecked sobs . 
Jenny , with a wiser insight into the grievance and its remedy , said : `` Suppose Ruth goes out instead of you , Fanny Barton , to do the errands . 
The fresh air will do her good ; and you know you dislike the cold east winds , while Ruth says she enjoys frost and snow , and all kinds of shivery weather . '' 
There was no temptation to come abroad , for those who were not absolutely obliged to leave their warm rooms ; indeed , the dusk hour showed that it was the usual tea-time for the humble inhabitants of that part of the town through which Ruth had to pass on her shopping expedition . 
As she came to the high ground just above the river , where the street sloped rapidly down to the bridge , she saw the flat country beyond all covered with snow , making the black dome of the cloud-laden sky appear yet blacker ; as if the winter 's night had never fairly gone away , but had hovered on the edge of the world all through the short bleak day . 
Ruth -LRB- a child in years herself -RRB- stood at the top of the declivity watching the adventurer , but as unconscious of any danger as the group of children below . 
The children shrieked aloud with terror ; and Ruth flew down to the little bay , and far into its shallow waters , before she felt how useless such an action was , and that the sensible plan would have been to seek for efficient help . 
Hardly had this thought struck her , when , louder and sharper than the sullen roar of the stream that was ceaselessly and unrelentingly flowing on , came the splash of a horse galloping through the water in which she was standing . 
Passed her like lightning -- down in the stream , swimming along with the current -- a stooping rider -- an outstretched , grasping arm -- a little life redeemed , and a child saved to those who loved it ! 
Ruth stood dizzy and sick with emotion while all this took place ; and when the rider turned his swimming horse , and slowly breasted up the river to the landing-place , she recognised him as the Mr. Bellingham of the night before . 
He carried the unconscious child across his horse ; the body hung in so lifeless a manner that Ruth believed it was dead , and her eyes were suddenly blinded with tears . 
She waded back to the beach , to the point towards which Mr. Bellingham was directing his horse . 
asked she , stretching out her arms to receive the little fellow ; for she instinctively felt that the position in which he hung was not the most conducive to returning consciousness , if , indeed , it would ever return . 
`` I think not , '' answered Mr. Bellingham , as he gave the child to her , before springing off his horse . 
said Ruth , who had sat down upon the ground , the better to prop the poor lad , `` his hand twitches ! 
`` We must take him into a house directly , '' said she . 
You must not hold him any longer , '' he continued , speaking to Ruth , and remembering her face now for the first time ; `` your dress is dripping wet already . 
But the child 's hand had nervously clenched Ruth 's dress , and she would not have him disturbed . 
She carried her heavy burden very tenderly towards a mean little cottage indicated by the neighbours ; an old crippled woman was coming out of the door , shaking all over with agitation . 
But the old woman was helpless and hopeless , and insisted on believing that her grandson was dead ; and dead he would have been if it had not been for Ruth , and one or two of the more sensible neighbours , who , under Mr. Bellingham 's directions , bustled about , and did all that was necessary until animation was restored . 
`` What a confounded time these people are in fetching the doctor , '' said Mr. Bellingham to Ruth , between whom and himself a sort of silent understanding had sprung up from the circumstance of their having been the only two -LRB- besides mere children -RRB- who had witnessed the accident , and also the only two to whom a certain degree of cultivation had given the power of understanding each other 's thoughts and even each other 's words . 
If you 'll allow me , I 'll leave you my purse , '' continued he , giving it to Ruth , who was only too glad to have this power entrusted to her of procuring one or two requisites which she had perceived to be wanted . 
But she saw some gold between the network ; she did not like the charge of such riches . 
Ruth was looking at him with her earnest eyes -LRB- Mrs. Mason and her errands quite forgotten in the interest of the afternoon 's event -RRB- , her whole thoughts bent upon rightly understanding and following out his wishes for the little boy 's welfare ; and until now this had been the first object in his own mind . 
But at this moment the strong perception of Ruth 's exceeding beauty came again upon him . 
The night before , he had not seen her eyes ; and now they looked straight and innocently full at him , grave , earnest , and deep . 
But when she instinctively read the change in the expression of his countenance , she dropped her large white veiling lids ; and he thought her face was lovelier still . 
The irresistible impulse seized him to arrange matters so that he might see her again before long . 
`` Oh , yes , sir , '' said Ruth , alive to the magnitude of the wants to which she might have to administer , and yet rather afraid of the responsibility implied in the possession of so much money . 
He meant that he relied on her promise to meet him ; but Ruth thought that he was referring to the responsibility of doing the best she could for the child . 
He was going away , when a fresh thought struck him , and he turned back into the cottage once more , and addressed Ruth , with a half-smile on his countenance : `` It seems rather strange , but we have no one to introduce us ; my name is Bellingham -- yours is -- ? '' 
`` Ruth Hilton , sir , '' she answered , in a low voice , for now that the conversation no longer related to the boy , she felt shy and restrained . 
He held out his hand to shake hers , and just as she gave it to him , the old grandmother came tottering up to ask some question . 
By this time he was mounted , and , bowing to Ruth , he rode away . 
`` He is Mr. Bellingham , '' said Ruth , shocked at the old woman 's apparent ingratitude . 
`` He did not come in only to abuse it , '' said Ruth , gently . 
She stopped to cough ; and Ruth judiciously changed the subject , and began to consult the old woman as to the wants of her grandson , in which consultation they were soon assisted by the medical man . 
When Ruth had made one or two arrangements with a neighbour , whom she asked to procure the most necessary things , and had heard from the doctor that all would be right in a day or two , she began to quake at the recollection of the length of time she had spent at Nelly Brownson 's , and to remember , with some affright , the strict watch kept by Mrs. Mason over her apprentices ' out-goings and in-comings on working-days . 
His spirited and natural action of galloping into the water to save the child , was magnified by Ruth into the most heroic deed of daring ; his interest about the boy was tender , thoughtful benevolence in her eyes , and his careless liberality of money was fine generosity ; for she forgot that generosity implies some degree of self-denial . 
She was gratified , too , by the power of dispensing comfort he had entrusted to her , and was busy with Alnaschar visions of wise expenditure , when the necessity of opening Mrs. Mason 's house-door summoned her back into actual present life , and the dread of an immediate scolding . 
During her absence , Jenny 's difficulty of breathing had suddenly become worse , and the girls had , on their own responsibility , put her to bed , and were standing round her in dismay , when Mrs. Mason 's return home -LRB- only a few minutes before Ruth arrived -RRB- fluttered them back into the workroom . 
And now , all was confusion and hurry ; a doctor to be sent for ; a mind to be unburdened of direction for a dress to a fore-woman , who was too ill to understand ; scoldings to be scattered with no illiberal hand amongst a group of frightened girls , hardly sparing the poor invalid herself for her inopportune illness . 
In the middle of all this turmoil , Ruth crept quietly to her place , with a heavy saddened heart at the indisposition of the gentle fore-woman . 
She would gladly have nursed Jenny herself , and often longed to do it , but she could not be spared . 
Meanwhile , extra diligence was required in the workroom ; and Ruth found no opportunity of going to see little Tom , or to fulfil the plans for making him and his grandmother more comfortable , which she had proposed to herself . 
Ruth told of her own adventure , to be sure , but when she was at the very crisis of the boy 's fall into the river , the more fresh and vivid interest of some tidings of Jenny was brought into the room , and Ruth ceased , almost blaming herself for caring for anything besides the question of life or death to be decided in that very house . 
Mrs. Mason went the accustomed visit to her father 's , making some little show of apology to Mrs. Wood for leaving her and her daughter ; the apprentices dispersed to the various friends with whom they were in the habit of spending the day ; and Ruth went to St. Nicholas ' , with a sorrowful heart , depressed on account of Jenny , and self-reproachful at having rashly undertaken what she had been unable to perform . 
Ruth had been so much accustomed to blame of late , that she almost anticipated some remonstrance or reproach now , for not having fulfilled her promise better . 
She little guessed that Mr. Bellingham was far more busy trying to devise some excuse for meeting her again , during the silence that succeeded her speech , than displeased with her for not bringing a more particular account of the little boy , in whom he had ceased to feel any interest . 
She repeated , after a minute 's pause : `` I am very sorry I have done so little , sir . '' 
`` He is displeased with me , '' thought Ruth , `` for what he believes to have been neglect of the boy , whose life he risked his own to save . 
`` Oh , yes , sir , '' said Ruth , glad that this commission was completely within her power to execute , and anxious to make up for her previous seeming neglect . 
Ruth watched her down the street from an upper window , and , sighing deep and long , returned to the workroom , whence the warning voice and the gentle wisdom had departed . 
His thoughts had been far more occupied by Ruth than hers by him , although his appearance upon the scene of her life was more an event to her than it was to him . 
He was puzzled by the impression she had produced on him , though he did not in general analyse the nature of his feelings , but simply enjoyed them with the delight which youth takes in experiencing new and strong emotion . 
He was old compared to Ruth , but young as a man ; hardly three-and-twenty . 
He cared little or nothing about it -- it was time enough to be married ten years hence ; and so he was dawdling through some months of his life -- sometimes flirting with the nothing-loth Miss Duncombe , sometimes plaguing , and sometimes delighting his mother , at all times taking care to please himself -- when he first saw Ruth Hilton , and a new , passionate , hearty feeling shot through his whole being . 
He did not know why he was so fascinated by her . 
She was very beautiful , but he had seen others equally beautiful , and with many more agaceries calculated to set off the effect of their charms . 
There was a spell in the shyness , which made her avoid and shun all admiring approaches to acquaintance . 
It would be an exquisite delight to attract and tame her wildness , just as he had often allured and tamed the timid fawns in his mother 's park . 
Ruth believed she should never see him again ; and , in spite of sundry self-upbraidings for her folly , she could not help feeling as if a shadow were drawn over her existence for several days to come . 
What became of such as Ruth , who had no home and no friends in that large populous desolate town ? 
She had hitherto commissioned the servant , who went to market on Saturdays for the family , to buy her a bun or biscuit , whereon she made her fasting dinner in the deserted workroom ; sitting in her walking-dress to keep off the cold , which clung to her in spite of shawl and bonnet . 
Then she would sit at the window , looking out on the dreary prospect till her eyes were often blinded by tears ; and , partly to shake off thoughts and recollections , the indulgence in which she felt to be productive of no good , and partly to have some ideas to dwell upon during the coming week beyond those suggested by the constant view of the same room , she would carry her Bible , and place herself in the window-seat on the wide landing , which commanded the street in front of the house . 
From thence she could see the irregular grandeur of the place ; she caught a view of the grey church-tower , rising hoary and massive into mid-air ; she saw one or two figures loiter along on the sunny side of the street , in all the enjoyment of their fine clothes and Sunday leisure ; and she imagined histories for them , and tried to picture to herself their homes and their daily doings . 
After church was over , she used to return home to the same window-seat , and watch till the winter twilight was over and gone , and the stars came out over the black masses of houses . 
And then she would steal down to ask for a candle , as a companion to her in the deserted workroom . 
Occasionally the servant would bring her up some tea ; but of late Ruth had declined taking any , as she had discovered she was robbing the kind-hearted creature of part of the small provision left out for her by Mrs. Mason . 
She sat on , hungry and cold , trying to read her Bible , and to think the old holy thoughts which had been her childish meditations at her mother 's knee , until one after another the apprentices returned , weary with their day 's enjoyment , and their week 's late watching ; too weary to make her in any way a partaker of their pleasure by entering into details of the manner in which they had spent their day . 
For five months Ruth had been an inmate at Mrs. Mason 's , and such had been the regular order of the Sundays . 
While the fore-woman stayed there , it is true , she was ever ready to give Ruth the little variety of hearing of recreations in which she was no partaker ; and however tired Jenny might be at night , she had ever some sympathy to bestow on Ruth for the dull length of day she had passed . 
After her departure , the monotonous idleness of the Sunday seemed worse to bear than the incessant labour of the work-days ; until the time came when it seemed to be a recognised hope in her mind , that on Sunday afternoons she should see Mr. Bellingham , and hear a few words from him , as from a friend who took an interest in her thoughts and proceedings during the past week . 
Ruth 's mother had been the daughter of a poor curate in Norfolk , and , early left without parents or home , she was thankful to marry a respectable farmer , a good deal older than herself . 
But when Ruth was about twelve , one morning in the busy hay-time , Mrs. Hilton was left alone for some hours . 
If Ruth , with coaxings and draggings , induced him to come out with her , he went with measured steps around his fields , his head bent to the ground with the same abstracted , unseeing look ; never smiling -- never changing the expression of his face , not even to one of deeper sadness , when anything occurred which might be supposed to remind him of his dead wife . 
After his death , the creditors were the chief people who appeared to take any interest in the affairs ; and it seemed strange to Ruth to see people , whom she scarcely knew , examining and touching all that she had been accustomed to consider as precious and sacred . 
Her father had made his will at her birth . 
He was a sensible , hard-headed man of the world ; having a very fair proportion of conscience as consciences go ; indeed , perhaps more than many people ; for he had some ideas of duty extending to the circle beyond his own family ; and did not , as some would have done , decline acting altogether , but speedily summoned the creditors , examined into the accounts , sold up the farming-stock , and discharged all the debts ; paid about 80l into the Skelton bank for a week , while he inquired for a situation or apprenticeship of some kind for poor heart-broken Ruth ; heard of Mrs. Mason 's , arranged all with her in two short conversations ; drove over for Ruth in his gig ; waited while she and the old servant packed up her clothes , and grew very impatient while she ran , with her eyes streaming with tears , round the garden , tearing off in a passion of love whole boughs of favourite China and damask roses , late flowering against the casement-window of what had been her mother 's room . 
When she took her seat in the gig , she was little able , even if she had been inclined , to profit by her guardian 's lectures on economy and self-reliance ; but she was quiet and silent , looking forward with longing to the night-time , when , in her bedroom , she might give way to all her passionate sorrow at being wrenched from the home where she had lived with her parents , in that utter absence of any anticipation of change , which is either the blessing or the curse of childhood . 
But at night there were four other girls in her room , and she could not cry before them . 
She watched and waited till one by one dropped off to sleep , and then she buried her face in the pillow , and shook with sobbing grief ; and then she paused to conjure up , with fond luxuriance , every recollection of the happy days , so little valued in their uneventful peace while they lasted , so passionately regretted when once gone for ever ; to remember every look and word of the dear mother , and to moan afresh over the change caused by her death ; -- the first clouding in of Ruth 's day of life . 
It was Jenny 's sympathy on this first night , when awakened by Ruth 's irrepressible agony , that had made the bond between them . 
But Ruth 's loving disposition , continually sending forth fibres in search of nutriment , found no other object for regard among those of her daily life to compensate for the want of natural ties . 
But , almost insensibly , Jenny 's place in Ruth 's heart was filled up ; there was some one who listened with tender interest to all her little revelations ; who questioned her about her early days of happiness , and , in return , spoke of his own childhood -- not so golden in reality as Ruth 's , but more dazzling , when recounted with stories of the beautiful cream-coloured Arabian pony , and the old picture-gallery in the house , and avenues , and terraces , and fountains in the garden , for Ruth to paint , with all the vividness of imagination , as scenery and background for the figure which was growing by slow degrees most prominent in her thoughts . 
On Sunday , Mr. Bellingham only spoke to her to receive the information about the panel ; nor did he come to St. Nicholas ' the next , nor yet the following Sunday . 
But the third he walked by her side a little way , and , seeing her annoyance , he left her ; and then she wished for him back again , and found the day very dreary , and wondered why a strange undefined feeling had made her imagine she was doing wrong in walking alongside of one so kind and good as Mr. Bellingham ; it had been very foolish of her to be self-conscious all the time , and if ever he spoke to her again she would not think of what people might say , but enjoy the pleasure which his kind words and evident interest in her might give . 
Then she thought it was very likely he never would notice her again , for she knew that she had been very rude with her short answers ; it was very provoking that she had behaved so rudely . 
She should be sixteen in another month , and she was still childish and awkward . 
Thus she lectured herself , after parting with Mr. Bellingham ; and the consequence was , that on the following Sunday she was ten times as blushing and conscious , and -LRB- Mr. Bellingham thought -RRB- ten times more beautiful than ever . 
He suggested , that instead of going straight home through High-street , she should take the round by the Leasowes ; at first she declined , but then , suddenly wondering and questioning herself why she refused a thing which was , as far as reason and knowledge -LRB- her knowledge -RRB- went , so innocent , and which was certainly so tempting and pleasant , she agreed to go the round ; and when she was once in the meadows that skirted the town , she forgot all doubt and awkwardness -- nay , almost forgot the presence of Mr. Bellingham -- in her delight at the new tender beauty of an early spring day in February . 
Among the last year 's brown ruins , heaped together by the wind in the hedgerows , she found the fresh green crinkled leaves and pale star-like flowers of the primroses . 
Here and there a golden celandine made brilliant the sides of the little brook that -LRB- full of water in `` February fill-dyke '' -RRB- bubbled along by the side of the path ; the sun was low in the horizon , and once , when they came to a higher part of the Leasowes , Ruth burst into an exclamation of delight at the evening glory of mellow light which was in the sky behind the purple distance , while the brown leafless woods in the foreground derived an almost metallic lustre from the golden mist and haze of sunset . 
Ruth turned to thank Mr. Bellingham for his kindness in taking her home by this beautiful way , but his look of admiration at her glowing , animated face made her suddenly silent ; and , hardly wishing him good-by , she quickly entered the house with a beating , happy , agitated heart . 
`` How strange it is , '' she thought that evening , `` that I should feel as if this charming afternoon 's walk were , somehow , not exactly wrong , but yet as if it were not right . 
She was not conscious , as yet , that Mr. Bellingham 's presence had added any charm to the ramble ; and when she might have become aware of this , as , week after week , Sunday after Sunday , loitering ramble after loitering ramble succeeded each other , she was too much absorbed with one set of thoughts to have much inclination for self-questioning . 
`` Tell me everything , Ruth , as you would to a brother ; let me help you , if I can , in your difficulties , '' he said to her one afternoon . 
And he really did try to understand , and to realise , how an insignificant and paltry person like Mason the dressmaker could be an object of dread , and regarded as a person having authority , by Ruth . 
He flamed up with indignation when , by way of impressing him with Mrs. Mason 's power and consequence , Ruth spoke of some instance of the effects of her employer 's displeasure . 
He declared his mother should never have a gown made again by such a tyrant -- such a Mrs. Brownrigg ; that he would prevent all his acquaintances from going to such a cruel dressmaker ; till Ruth was alarmed at the threatened consequences of her one-sided account , and pleaded for Mrs. Mason as earnestly as if a young man 's menace of this description were likely to be literally fulfilled . 
She is often very good to us ; it is only sometimes she goes into a passion ; and we are very provoking , I dare say . 
`` I will take care and not tell again , sir , '' said Ruth , in a low voice . 
`` Nay , Ruth , you are not going to have secrets from me , are you ? 
Ruth smiled . 
On the left hand of the road , is it , Ruth ? '' 
`` Why , Ruth , you -- we may go next Sunday afternoon , if you like . '' 
She looked up at him with a lovely light of pleasure in her face at the idea . 
He was revolving plans in his head for giving her this pleasure , and he had also his own in view . 
`` Are you a good walker , Ruth ? 
`` In the first place , I miss going to church by setting out at two , '' said Ruth , a little gravely . 
Come , Ruth , do n't pin your faith on any one , but judge for yourself . 
Ruth hung down her head , and blushed with exceeding happiness ; but she could not speak , even to urge her doubts afresh . 
How delightfully happy the plan made her through the coming week ! 
She was too young when her mother died to have received any cautions or words of advice respecting the subject of a woman 's life -- if , indeed , wise parents ever directly speak of what , in its depth and power , can not be put into words -- which is a brooding spirit with no definite form or shape that men should know it , but which is there , and present before we have recognised and realised its existence . 
Ruth was innocent and snow-pure . 
She had heard of falling in love , but did not know the signs and symptoms thereof ; nor , indeed , had she troubled her head much about them . 
Sorrow had filled up her days , to the exclusion of all lighter thoughts than the consideration of present duties , and the remembrance of the happy time which had been . 
But the interval of blank , after the loss of her mother and during her father 's life-in-death , had made her all the more ready to value and cling to sympathy -- first from Jenny , and now from Mr. Bellingham . 
Ruth thought it was too strong a realisation of her hopes , and looked for an over-clouding at noon ; but the glory endured , and at two o'clock she was in the Leasowes , with a beating heart full of joy , longing to stop the hours , which would pass too quickly through the afternoon . 
They clambered the little hill , not yet fully shaded by the overarching elms ; and then Ruth checked Mr. Bellingham , by a slight motion of the hand which lay within his arm , and glanced up into his face to see what that face should express as it looked on Milham Grange , now lying still and peaceful in its afternoon shadows . 
The sight of this conveyed a sense of desolation to Ruth 's heart ; she thought it was possible the state-entrance had never been used since her father 's dead body had been borne forth , and , without speaking a word , she turned abruptly away , and went round the house to another door . 
Mr. Bellingham followed without questioning little understanding her feelings , but full of admiration for the varying expression called out upon her face . 
Ruth sprang forward to shake the horny hand stretched forward in the action of blessing . 
She pressed it between both of hers , as she rapidly poured out questions . 
Mr. Bellingham 's `` blood of all the Howards '' rose and tingled about his ears , so that he could not hear Ruth 's answer . 
He was hardly himself again when Ruth shyly came to the window-recess and asked him if he would like to see the house-place , into which the front door entered ; many people thought it very pretty , she said , half timidly , for his face had unconsciously assumed a hard and haughty expression , which he could not instantly soften down . 
He followed her , however ; but before he left the kitchen he saw the old man standing , looking at Ruth 's companion with a strange , grave air of dissatisfaction . 
Ruth stood gazing into the room , seeing nothing of what was present . 
She saw a vision of former days -- an evening in the days of her childhood ; her father sitting in the `` master 's corner '' near the fire , sedately smoking his pipe , while he dreamily watched his wife and child ; her mother reading to her , as she sat on a little stool at her feet . 
It was gone -- all gone into the land of shadows ; but for the moment it seemed so present in the old room , that Ruth believed her actual life to be the dream . 
Then , still silent , she went on into her mother 's parlour . 
`` Dearest Ruth , do n't give way so . 
`` I know it can not , '' murmured Ruth ; `` and that is why I cry . 
She sobbed afresh , but more gently , for his kind words soothed her , and softened , if they could not take away , her sense of desolation . 
Come '' -- raising her with gentle violence -- `` show me your little garden you have often told me about . 
He led her round through the back part of the house into the pretty old-fashioned garden . 
There was a sunny border just under the windows , and clipped box and yew-trees by the grass-plat , further away from the house ; and she prattled again of her childish adventures and solitary plays . 
Mr. Bellingham looked graver than he had done while witnessing Ruth 's passionate emotion in her mother 's room . 
But he lost his sense of indignity in admiration of his companion as she wandered among the flowers , seeking for favourite bushes or plants , to which some history or remembrance was attached . 
She wound in and out in natural , graceful , wavy lines between the luxuriant and overgrown shrubs , which were fragrant with a leafy smell of spring growth ; she went on , careless of watching eyes , indeed unconscious , for the time , of their existence . 
Once she stopped to take hold of a spray of jessamine , and softly kiss it ; it had been her mother 's favourite flower . 
Old Thomas was standing by the horse-mount , and was also an observer of all her goings on . 
Not Ruth , indeed ! 
Ruth was half-way towards the impatient Mr. Bellingham when her old friend called her back . 
He longed to give her a warning of the danger that he thought she was in , and yet he did not know how . 
When she came up , all he could think of to say was a text ; indeed , the language of the Bible was the language in which he thought , whenever his ideas went beyond practical every-day life into expressions of emotion or feeling . 
`` My dear , remember the devil goeth about as a roaring lion , seeking whom he may devour ; remember that , Ruth . '' 
The words fell on her ear , but gave no definite idea . 
The utmost they suggested was the remembrance of the dread she felt as a child when this verse came into her mind , and how she used to imagine a lion 's head with glaring eyes peering out of the bushes in a dark shady part of the wood , which , for this reason , she had always avoided , and even now could hardly think of without a shudder . 
She never imagined that the grim warning related to the handsome young man who awaited her with a countenance beaming with love , and tenderly drew her hand within his arm . 
`` The Lord may help her to guide her steps aright . 
But I 'm afeard she 's treading in perilous places . 
I 'll put my missis up to going to the town and getting speech of her , and telling her a bit of her danger . 
The poor old labourer prayed long and earnestly that night for Ruth . 
Ruth went on her way , all unconscious of the dark phantoms of the future that were gathering around her ; her melancholy turned , with the pliancy of childish years , at sixteen not yet lost , into a softened manner which was infinitely charming . 
By-and-by she cleared up into sunny happiness . 
The evening was still and full of mellow light , and the new-born summer was so delicious that , in common with all young creatures , she shared its influence and was glad . 
Ruth and Mr. Bellingham plunged through the broken ground to regain the road near the wayside inn . 
Once on the road , at the summit , Ruth stood silent , in breathless delight at the view before her . 
asked Ruth . 
He dropped Ruth 's arm , and went into the public-house . 
Ruth turned round , when the sound of the horse 's footsteps came distinctly as he reached the level . 
She faced Mrs. Mason ! 
At the same moment they recognised each other , and , what was worse , Mrs. Mason had clearly seen , with her sharp , needle-like eyes , the attitude in which Ruth had stood with the young man who had just quitted her . 
Ruth 's hand had been lying in his arm , and fondly held there by his other hand . 
While she was thus charged with anger -LRB- for her brother justly defended her son 's master and companions from her attacks -RRB- , she saw Ruth standing with a lover , far away from home , at such a time in the evening , and she boiled over with intemperate displeasure . 
`` Come here directly , Miss Hilton , '' she exclaimed , sharply . 
Then , dropping her voice to low , bitter tones of concentrated wrath , she said to the trembling , guilty Ruth : `` Do n't attempt to show your face at my house again after this conduct . 
The horse started away , for he was impatient to be off , and Ruth was left standing there , stony , sick , and pale , as if the lightning had torn up the ground beneath her feet . 
She could not go on standing , she was so sick and faint ; she staggered back to the broken sand-bank , and sank down , and covered her face with her hands . 
`` My dearest Ruth ! 
They loosened the fountain of Ruth 's tears , and she cried bitterly . 
did you see her -- did you hear what she said ? '' 
`` She ! 
Do n't sob so , Ruth ; tell me what it is . 
cried Ruth ; `` are you going away ? 
She wept afresh , giving herself up to the desolate feeling of sorrow , which absorbed all the terror she had been experiencing at the idea of Mrs. Mason 's anger . 
`` I can hardly bear the idea of leaving you , my own Ruth . 
He went on : `` Ruth , would you go with me to London ? 
Oh , Ruth -LRB- reproachfully -RRB- , can you not trust me ? '' 
Oh , Ruth ! '' 
You make me too happy by your silence , Ruth . '' 
exclaimed Ruth . 
`` How , my dearest Ruth ? 
If so , Ruth ! 
He said this very sadly -LRB- it seemed so to Ruth , at least -RRB- , and made as though he would have drawn his hand from hers , but now she held it with soft force . 
You see your position ; Mrs. Mason writes and gives her own exaggerated account to your guardian ; he is bound by no great love to you , from what I have heard you say , and throws you off ; I , who might be able to befriend you -- through my mother , perhaps -- I , who could at least comfort you a little -LRB- could not I , Ruth ? -RRB- 
Then we are together , come what may ; that is enough for me , is it not for you , Ruth ? 
Ruth , say yes . '' 
Low and soft , with much hesitation , came the `` Yes ; '' the fatal word of which she so little imagined the infinite consequences . 
She rose , and , leaning on his arm , went into the house . 
She was shaking and dizzy with the agitation of the last hour . 
`` Dearest Ruth , I must go ; there is not an instant to be lost ; promise me to take some tea , for you are shivering all over , and deadly pale with the fright that abominable woman has given you . 
He kissed her pale cold face , and went away . 
The room whirled round before Ruth ; it was a dream -- a strange , varying , shifting dream -- with the old home of her childhood for one scene , with the terror of Mrs. Mason 's unexpected appearance for another ; and then , strangest , dizziest , happiest of all , there was the consciousness of his love , who was all the world to her ; and the remembrance of the tender words , which still kept up their low soft echo in her heart . 
Her head ached so much that she could hardly see ; even the dusky twilight was a dazzling glare to her poor eyes ; and when the daughter of the house brought in the sharp light of the candles , preparatory for tea , Ruth hid her face in the sofa pillows with a low exclamation of pain . 
Ruth murmured acquiescence ; the young girl -LRB- about Ruth 's own age , but who was the mistress of the little establishment , owing to her mother 's death -RRB- made tea , and brought Ruth a cup to the sofa where she lay . 
Ruth was feverish and thirsty , and eagerly drank it off , although she could not touch the bread-and-butter which the girl offered her . 
`` Thank you , '' said Ruth . 
Ruth became as hot as she had previously been cold , and went and opened the window , and leant out into the still , sweet , evening air . 
The bush of sweet-briar , underneath the window , scented the place , and the delicious fragrance reminded her of her old home . 
I think scents affect and quicken the memory more than either sights or sounds ; for Ruth had instantly before her eyes the little garden beneath the window of her mother 's room , with the old man leaning on his stick , watching her , just as he had done , not three hours before , on that very afternoon . 
She put on her bonnet , and opened the parlour door ; but then she saw the square figure of the landlord standing at the open house-door , smoking his evening pipe , and looming large and distinct against the dark air and landscape beyond . 
Ruth remembered the cup of tea that she had drank ; it must be paid for , and she had no money with her . 
She feared that he would not let her quit the house without paying . 
She thought that she would leave a note for Mr. Bellingham , saying where she was gone , and how she had left the house in debt , for -LRB- like a child -RRB- all dilemmas appeared of equal magnitude to her ; and the difficulty of passing the landlord while he stood there , and of giving him an explanation of the circumstances -LRB- as far as such explanation was due to him -RRB- , appeared insuperable , and as awkward , and fraught with inconvenience , as far more serious situations . 
She kept peeping out of her room , after she had written her little pencil note , to see if the outer door was still obstructed . 
The fumes of the tobacco were carried by the air into the house , and brought back Ruth 's sick headache . 
Her energy left her ; she became stupid and languid , and incapable of spirited exertion ; she modified her plan of action , to the determination of asking Mr. Bellingham to take her to Milham Grange , to the care of her humble friends , instead of to London . 
And she thought , in her simplicity , that he would instantly consent when he had heard her reasons . 
She started up . 
She hushed her beating heart , and tried to stop her throbbing head to listen . 
She heard him speaking to the landlord , though she could not distinguish what he said ; heard the jingling of money , and , in another moment , he was in the room , and had taken her arm to lead her to the carriage . 
I want you to take me to Milham Grange , '' said she , holding back . 
She was little accustomed to oppose the wishes of any one -- obedient and docile by nature , and unsuspicious and innocent of any harmful consequences . 
She entered the carriage , and drove towards London . 
`` I did not know you had been here before , '' said Ruth , as Mr. Bellingham helped her off with her cloak . 
I only thought it seemed rather unfair -- '' said Ruth , gently ; but she did not end her sentence , for Mr. Bellingham formed his lips into a whistle , and walked to the window to survey the rain . 
It was most true enjoyment to Ruth . 
It was opening a new sense ; vast ideas of beauty and grandeur filled her mind at the sight of the mountains now first beheld in full majesty . 
She was almost overpowered by the vague and solemn delight ; but by-and-by her love for them equalled her awe , and in the night-time she would softly rise , and steal to the window to see the white moonlight , which gave a new aspect to the everlasting hills that girdle the mountain village . 
Their breakfast-hour was late , in accordance with Mr. Bellingham 's tastes and habits ; but Ruth was up betimes , and out and away , brushing the dewdrops from the short crisp grass ; the lark sung high above her head , and she knew not if she moved or stood still , for the grandeur of this beautiful earth absorbed all idea of separate and individual existence . 
Even rain was a pleasure to her . 
She sat in the window-seat of their parlour -LRB- she would have gone out gladly , but that such a proceeding annoyed Mr. Bellingham , who usually at such times lounged away the listless hours on a sofa , and relieved himself by abusing the weather -RRB- ; she saw the swift fleeting showers come athwart the sunlight like a rush of silver arrows ; she watched the purple darkness on the heathery mountain side , and then the pale golden gleam which succeeded . 
There was no change or alteration of nature that had not its own peculiar beauty in the eyes of Ruth ; but if she had complained of the changeable climate , she would have pleased Mr. Bellingham more ; her admiration and her content made him angry , until her pretty motions and loving eyes soothed down his impatience . 
`` Really , Ruth , '' he exclaimed one day , when they had been imprisoned by rain a whole morning , `` one would think you had never seen a shower of rain before ; it quite wearies me to see you sitting there watching this detestable weather with such a placid countenance ; and for the last two hours you have said nothing more amusing or interesting than -- ` Oh , how beautiful ! ' 
Ruth left her seat very gently , and took up her work . 
She wished she had the gift of being amusing ; it must be dull for a man accustomed to all kinds of active employments to be shut up in the house . 
She was recalled from her absolute self-forgetfulness . 
What could she say to interest Mr. Bellingham ? 
While she thought , he spoke again : `` I remember when we were reading here three years ago , we had a week of just such weather as this ; but Howard and Johnson were capital whistplayers , and Wilbraham not bad , so we got through the days famously . 
Can you play cart , Ruth , or picquet ? '' 
`` No , sir ; I have sometimes played at beggar-my-neighbour , '' answered Ruth , humbly , regretting her own deficiencies . 
But Ruth was stupid , not so good as a dummy , he said ; and it was no fun betting against himself . 
Ruth picked them up . 
As she rose , she sighed a little with the depression of spirits consequent upon her own want of power to amuse and occupy him she loved . 
said he , half repenting of his anger at her blunders over the cards . 
She left the room with a feeling of relief ; for if he were dull without her , she should not feel responsible , and unhappy at her own stupidity . 
The open air , that kind soothing balm which gentle mother Nature offers to us all in our seasons of depression , relieved her . 
Ruth went down to the circular dale , into which the brown-foaming mountain river fell and made a deep pool , and , after resting there for a while , ran on between broken rocks down to the valley below . 
The waterfall was magnificent , as she had anticipated ; she longed to extend her walk to the other side of the stream , so she sought the stepping-stones , the usual crossing-place , which were overshadowed by trees , a few yards from the pool . 
The waters ran high and rapidly , as busy as life , between the pieces of grey rock ; but Ruth had no fear , and went lightly and steadily on . 
About the middle , however , there was a great gap ; either one of the stones was so covered with water as to be invisible , or it had been washed lower down ; at any rate , the spring from stone to stone was long , and Ruth hesitated for a moment before taking it . 
The sound of rushing waters was in her ears to the exclusion of every other noise ; her eyes were on the current running swiftly below her feet ; and thus she was startled to see a figure close before her on one of the stones , and to hear a voice offering help . 
She looked up and saw a man , who was apparently long past middle life , and of the stature of a dwarf ; a second glance accounted for the low height of the speaker , for then she saw he was deformed . 
As the consciousness of this infirmity came into her mind , it must have told itself in her softened eyes , for a faint flush of colour came into the pale face of the deformed gentleman , as he repeated his words : `` The water is very rapid ; will you take my hand ? 
Ruth accepted the offer , and with this assistance she was across in a moment . 
He made way for her to precede him in the narrow wood path , and then silently followed her up the glen . 
When they had passed out of the wood into the pasture-land beyond , Ruth once more turned to mark him . 
She was struck afresh with the mild beauty of the face , though there was something in the countenance which told of the body 's deformity , something more and beyond the pallor of habitual ill-health , something of a quick spiritual light in the deep-set eyes , a sensibility about the mouth ; but altogether , though a peculiar , it was a most attractive face . 
She wondered who her companion might be . 
She should have known him , if she had seen him among the strangers at the inn ; and yet he spoke English too well to be a Welshman ; he knew the country and the paths so perfectly , he must be a resident ; and so she tossed him from England to Wales and back again in her imagination . 
asked Ruth , timidly . 
asked Ruth . 
`` I do not wonder at your choice , '' replied Ruth . 
Ruth was too shy to keep up the conversation by any remark of her own , although his gentle , pensive manner was very winning . 
He looked at her with a grave smile , which did not enliven his thoughtful eyes , but gave an inexpressible sweetness to his face . 
asked Ruth , innocently . 
`` It 's a very pretty fancy , '' said Ruth , much interested , and wishing that he would go on , without expecting her to reply . 
But they were already at the wooden bridge ; he led her across , and then , bowing his adieu , he had taken a different path even before Ruth had thanked him for his attention . 
`` Ruth , '' said he , when he returned , `` I 've seen your little hunchback . 
asked Ruth , surprised . 
asked Ruth . 
said she , softly ; but the subject did not interest Mr. Bellingham , and he let it drop . 
Ruth was quite unconscious of being the object of remark , and , in her light rapid passings to and fro , had never looked at the doors and windows , where many watchers stood observing her , and commenting upon her situation or her appearance . 
`` She 's a very lovely creature , '' said one gentleman , rising from the breakfast-table to catch a glimpse of her , as she entered from her morning 's ramble . 
Ruth found Mr. Bellingham was not yet come down ; so she sallied out for an additional half hour 's ramble . 
Flitting about through the village , trying to catch all the beautiful sunny peeps at the scenery between the cold stone houses , which threw the radiant distance into arial perspective far away , she passed by the little shop ; and , just issuing from it , came the nurse and baby , and little boy . 
Her fresh , soft , peachy complexion was really tempting ; and Ruth , who was always fond of children , went up to coo and to smile at the little thing , and , after some `` peepboing , '' she was about to snatch a kiss , when Harry , whose face had been reddening ever since the play began , lifted up his sturdy little right arm and hit Ruth a great blow on the face . 
`` Children pick up such notions , ma'am , '' said she at last , apologetically to Ruth , who stood , white and still , with a new idea running through her mind . 
said the boy , in infantile vehemence of passion to Ruth . 
To the nurse 's infinite relief , Ruth turned away , humbly and meekly , with bent head , and slow , uncertain steps . 
But as she turned , she saw the mild sad face of the deformed gentleman , who was sitting at the open window above the shop ; he looked sadder and graver than ever ; and his eyes met her glance with an expression of deep sorrow . 
And so , condemned alike by youth and age , she stole with timid step into the house . 
Mr. Bellingham was awaiting her coming in the sitting-room . 
He talked gaily away , without pausing for a reply ; while Ruth made tea , and tried to calm her heart , which was yet beating with the agitation of the new ideas she had received from the occurrence of the morning . 
Luckily for her , the only answers required for some time were monosyllables ; but those few words were uttered in so depressed and mournful a tone , that at last they struck Mr. Bellingham with surprise and displeasure , as the condition of mind they unconsciously implied did not harmonise with his own . 
`` Ruth , what is the matter this morning ? 
The tears fell quickly down Ruth 's cheeks , but she did not speak . 
She could not put into words the sense she was just beginning to entertain of the estimation in which she was henceforward to be held . 
She thought he would be as much grieved as she was at what had taken place that morning ; she fancied she should sink in his opinion if she told him how others regarded her ; besides , it seemed ungenerous to dilate upon the suffering of which he was the cause . 
`` I will not , '' thought she , `` embitter his life ; I will try and be cheerful . 
Accordingly , she made every effort possible to be as light-hearted as he was ; but , somehow , the moment she relaxed , thoughts would intrude , and wonders would force themselves upon her mind ; so that altogether she was not the gay and bewitching companion Mr. Bellingham had previously found her . 
`` Oh , there are water-lilies , '' said Ruth , her eye catching on the farther side . 
Sit still , Ruth ; this heap of grass will make a capital seat . '' 
He went round , and she waited quietly for his return . 
When he came back he took off her bonnet , without speaking , and began to place his flowers in her hair . 
She was quite still while he arranged her coronet , looking up in his face with loving eyes , with a peaceful composure . 
She knew that he was pleased from his manner , which had the joyousness of a child playing with a new toy , and she did not think twice of his occupation . 
When he had decked her out , he said : `` There , Ruth ! 
She obeyed , and could not help seeing her own loveliness ; it gave her a sense of satisfaction for an instant , as the sight of any other beautiful object would have done , but she never thought of associating it with herself . 
She knew that she was beautiful ; but that seemed abstract , and removed from herself . 
Her existence was in feeling , and thinking , and loving . 
Her beauty was all that Mr. Bellingham cared for , and it was supreme . 
It was all he recognised of her , and he was proud of it . 
She stood in her white dress against the trees which grew around ; her face was flushed into a brilliancy of colour which resembled that of a rose in June ; the great heavy white flowers drooped on either side of her beautiful head , and if her brown hair was a little disordered , the very disorder only seemed to add a grace . 
She pleased him more by looking so lovely than by all her tender endeavours to fall in with his varying humour . 
But when they left the wood , and Ruth had taken out her flowers , and resumed her bonnet , as they came near the inn , the simple thought of giving him pleasure was not enough to secure Ruth 's peace . 
She became pensive and sad , and could not rally into gaiety . 
`` Really , Ruth , '' said he , that evening , `` you must not encourage yourself in this habit of falling into melancholy reveries without any cause . 
`` I am very sorry , sir , '' said Ruth , her eyes filling with tears ; and then she remembered that it was very dull for him to be alone with her , heavy hearted as she had been all day . 
She said in a sweet , penitent tone : `` Would you be so kind as to teach me one of those games at cards you were speaking about yesterday , sir ? 
Her soft , murmuring voice won its way . 
He threw himself on the sofa , and in an instant she was by his side . 
`` Let me put my cool hands on your forehead , '' she begged ; `` that used to do mamma good . '' 
Ruth put out the candles , and sat patiently by him for a long time , fancying he would awaken refreshed . 
The room grew cool in the night air ; but Ruth dared not rouse him from what appeared to be sound , restoring slumber . 
She covered him with her shawl , which she had thrown over a chair on coming in from their twilight ramble . 
She had ample time to think ; but she tried to banish thought . 
At last , his breathing became quick and oppressed , and , after listening to it for some minutes with increasing affright , Ruth ventured to waken him . 
Ruth became more and more terrified ; all the household were asleep except one servant-girl , who was wearied out of what little English she had knowledge of in more waking hours , and could only answer , `` Iss , indeed , ma'am , '' to any question put to her by Ruth . 
She sat by the bedside all night long . 
It was a new form of illness to the miserable Ruth . 
Her yesterday 's suffering went into the black distance of long-past years . 
When she heard people stirring , she went in search of Mrs. Morgan , whose shrewd sharp manners , unsoftened by inward respect for the poor girl , had awed Ruth even when Mr. Bellingham was by to protect her . 
`` Mrs. Morgan , '' said she , sitting down in the little parlour appropriated to the landlady , for she felt her strength suddenly desert her -- `` Mrs. Morgan , I 'm afraid Mr. Bellingham is very ill ; '' -- here she burst into tears , but instantly checking herself , `` Oh , what must I do ? '' 
continued she ; `` I do n't think he has known anything all through the night , and he looks so strange and wild this morning . '' 
She gazed up into Mrs. Morgan 's face , as if reading an oracle . 
Ruth followed Mrs. Morgan up-stairs . 
When they entered the sick-room Mr. Bellingham was sitting up in bed , looking wildly about him , and as he saw them , he exclaimed : `` Ruth ! 
Ruth ! 
asked Ruth , wild with terror . 
Saying this , Mrs. Morgan left Ruth alone . 
Sounds of daily life began , bells rang , breakfast-services clattered up and down the passages , and Ruth sat on shivering by the bedside in that darkened room . 
Mrs. Morgan sent her breakfast up-stairs by a chambermaid , but Ruth motioned it away in her sick agony , and the girl had no right to urge her to partake of it . 
She heard the sound of merry parties setting out on excursions , on horseback or in carriages ; and once , stiff and wearied , she stole to the window , and looked out on one side of the blind ; but the day looked bright and discordant to her aching , anxious heart . 
It was some hours after he was summoned before the doctor made his appearance . 
He questioned his patient , and , receiving no coherent answers , he asked Ruth concerning the symptoms , but when she questioned him in turn he only shook his head and looked grave . 
He made a sign to Mrs. Morgan to follow him out of the room , and they went down to her parlour , leaving Ruth in a depth of despair , lower than she could have thought it possible there remained for her to experience , an hour before . 
And Ruth came in . 
She was white and trembling ; but she stood in that dignity which strong feeling , kept down by self-command , always imparts . 
Her manner was calm and serious , and her countenance and deportment showed that the occasion was calling out strength sufficient to meet it . 
Mr. Jones spoke with a deference which he had not thought of using up-stairs , even while he supposed her to be the sister of the invalid . 
Ruth listened gravely ; she repeated some of the injunctions , in order that she might be sure that she fully comprehended them , and then , bowing , left the room . 
Ruth put away every thought of the past or future ; everything that could unfit her for the duties of the present . 
She never left the room after the first day ; she forced herself to eat , because his service needed her strength . 
She did not indulge in any tears , because the weeping she longed for would make her less able to attend upon him . 
She watched , and waited , and prayed : prayed with an utter forgetfulness of self , only with a consciousness that God was all powerful , and that he , whom she loved so much , needed the aid of the Mighty One . 
She lost count of time in the hushed and darkened room . 
`` She 's come , '' whispered Mrs. Morgan , looking very much excited , and forgetting that Ruth had never heard that Mrs. Bellingham had been summoned . 
asked Ruth . 
Her morality was rather shocked at the idea of a proper real lady like Mrs. Bellingham discovering that she had winked at the connexion between her son and Ruth . 
She was quite inclined to encourage Ruth in her inclination to shrink out of Mrs. Bellingham 's observation , an inclination which arose from no definite consciousness of having done wrong , but principally from the representations she had always heard of the lady 's awfulness . 
Mrs. Bellingham swept into her son 's room as if she were unconscious what poor young creature had lately haunted it ; while Ruth hurried into some unoccupied bedroom , and , alone there , she felt her self-restraint suddenly give way , and burst into the saddest , most utterly wretched weeping she had ever known . 
She was worn out with watching , and exhausted by passionate crying , and she lay down on the bed and fell asleep . 
The day passed on ; she slumbered unnoticed and unregarded ; she awoke late in the evening with a sense of having done wrong in sleeping so long ; the strain upon her responsibility had not yet left her . 
Twilight was closing fast around ; she waited until it had become night , and then she stole down to Mrs. Morgan 's parlour . 
Jenny Morgan was doing up the hieroglyphics which she called her accounts ; she answered sharply enough , but it was a permission to enter , and Ruth was thankful for it . 
Ruth sighed . 
she inquired , after a pause . 
Her sharp voice recalled Ruth from the sick unconsciousness that had been creeping over her as she listened to the latter part of this speech . 
She sat down and could not speak -- the room whirled round and round -- her white feebleness touched Mrs. Morgan 's heart . 
She rang the bell with energy , and seconded her pull by going to the door and shouting out sharp directions , in Welsh , to Nest and Gwen , and three or four other rough , kind , slatternly servants . 
But the heartiness with which the kind , rosy waiter pressed her to eat , and the scolding Mrs. Morgan gave her , when she found the buttered toast untouched -LRB- toast on which she had herself desired that the butter might not be spared -RRB- , did Ruth more good than the tea . 
She began to hope , and to long for the morning when hope might have become certainty . 
It was all in vain that she was told that the room she had been in all day was at her service ; she did not say a word , but she was not going to bed that night , of all nights in the year , when life or death hung trembling in the balance . 
She went into the sick room till the bustling house was still , and heard busy feet passing to and fro into the room she might not enter ; and voices , imperious , though hushed down to a whisper , ask for innumerable things . 
Then there was silence ; and when she thought that all were dead asleep , except the watchers , she stole out into the gallery . 
Ruth crouched where no light fell . 
She sat on the ground close by the door ; her whole existence was absorbed in listening ; all was still ; it was only her heart beating with the strong , heavy , regular sound of a hammer . 
She wished she could stop its rushing , incessant clang . 
She heard a rustle of a silken gown , and knew it ought not to have been worn in a sick room ; for her senses seemed to have passed into the keeping of the invalid , and to feel only as he felt . 
But Ruth 's heart beat loud . 
She rose with as little noise as if she were a vision , and crept to the open window to try and lose the nervous listening for the ever-recurring sound . 
Here and there a black round shadow reminded Ruth of some `` Cwm , '' or hollow , where she and her lover had rambled in sun and in gladness . 
She then thought the land enchanted into everlasting brightness and happiness ; she fancied , then , that into a region so lovely no bale or woe could enter , but would be charmed away and disappear before the sight of the glorious guardian mountains . 
Now she knew the truth , that earth has no barrier which avails against agony . 
Between the low boundary of the garden and the hills swept one or two green meadows ; Ruth looked into the grey darkness till she traced each separate wave of outline . 
Then she heard a little restless bird chirp out its wakefulness from a nest in the ivy round the walls of the house . 
But the mother-bird spread her soft feathers , and hushed it into silence . 
Ruth gave a sigh of relief that the night was over and gone ; for she knew that soon suspense would be ended , and the verdict known , whether for life or for death . 
She grew faint and sick with anxiety ; it almost seemed as if she must go into the room and learn the truth . 
Then she heard movements , but they were not sharp or rapid , as if prompted by any emergency ; then , again , it was still . 
She sat curled up upon the floor , with her head thrown back against the wall , and her hands clasped round her knees . 
She had yet to wait . 
His mother had sat by him the night through , and was now daring to change her position for the first time ; she was even venturing to give directions in a low voice to the old nurse , who had dozed away in an arm-chair , ready to obey any summons of her mistress . 
Ruth sprang upright at the first sound of the creaking handle . 
Her very lips were stiff and unpliable with the force of the blood which rushed to her head . 
It seemed as if she could not form words . 
She stood right before Mrs. Bellingham . 
Ruth could not wait ; she spoke again : `` For the love of God , madam , speak ! 
If she did not answer her , she thought the creature was desperate enough to force her way into his room . 
So she spoke . 
my God , I thank thee , '' murmured Ruth , sinking back against the wall . 
Mrs. Bellingham looked at her with cold , contemptuous eyes , whose glances were like ice-bolts , and made Ruth shiver up away from them . 
She stood for a moment as if awaiting an answer , and half expecting it to be a defiance . 
But she did not understand Ruth . 
She did not imagine the faithful trustfulness of her heart . 
Ruth believed that if Mr. Bellingham was alive and likely to live , all was well . 
When he wanted her , he would send for her , ask for her , yearn for her , till every one would yield before his steadfast will . 
At present she imagined that he was probably too weak to care or know who was about him ; and though it would have been an infinite delight to her to hover and brood around him , yet it was of him she thought and not of herself . 
She gently drew herself on one side to make way for Mrs. Bellingham to pass . 
Ruth was still near the door , from which it seemed as if she could not tear herself away . 
Ruth turned away like a chidden child . 
All that day long , Ruth kept herself close prisoner in the room to which Mrs. Morgan accorded her ; all that day , and many succeeding days . 
But at nights , when the house was still , and even the little brown mice had gathered up the crumbs , and darted again to their holes , Ruth stole out , and crept to his door to catch , if she could , the sound of his beloved voice . 
She could tell by its tones how he felt , and how he was getting on , as well as any of the watchers in the room . 
She yearned and pined to see him once more ; but she had reasoned herself down into something like patience . 
When he was well enough to leave his room , when he had not always one of the nurses with him , then he would send for her , and she would tell him how very patient she had been for his dear sake . 
Poor Ruth ! 
`` Ruth is no improper character , mother ; you do her injustice ! '' 
`` My dear boy , you do n't mean to uphold her as a paragon of virtue ! '' 
`` Ruth was neither impudent nor hardened ; she was ignorant enough , and might offend from knowing no better . '' 
From the time he had become conscious of his mother 's presence , he had felt the dilemma he was in in regard to Ruth , and various plans had directly crossed his brain ; but it had been so troublesome to weigh and consider them all properly , that they had been put aside to be settled when he grew stronger . 
But this difficulty in which he was placed by his connexion with Ruth , associated the idea of her in his mind with annoyance and angry regret at the whole affair . 
He wished , in the languid way in which he wished and felt everything not immediately relating to his daily comfort , that he had never seen her . 
Notwithstanding this annoyance connected with and arising out of Ruth , he would not submit to hear her abused ; and something in his manner impressed this on his mother , for she immediately changed her mode of attack . 
Again no answer , but inward and increasing annoyance , of which Mr. Bellingham considered Ruth the cause . 
Ruth has not been so much to blame as you imagine , that I must say ; but I do not wish to see her again , if you can tell me how to arrange it otherwise , without behaving unhandsomely . 
Dismiss her , as you wish it ; but let it be done handsomely , and let me hear no more about it ; I can not bear it ; let me have a quiet life , without being lectured while I am pent up here , and unable to shake off unpleasant thoughts . '' 
She sat silent , thinking for a little while , and then sent for her writing-case , and began to write . 
Her son became restless , and nervously irritated . 
`` You must not think of such a thing , Henry , '' said she , alarmed at the very idea . 
He felt that he was not behaving as he should do , to Ruth , though the really right never entered his head . 
But it would extricate him from his present dilemma , and save him many lectures ; he knew that his mother , always liberal where money was concerned , would `` do the thing handsomely , '' and it would always be easy to write and give Ruth what explanation he felt inclined , in a day or two ; so he consented , and soon lost some of his uneasiness in watching the bustle of the preparation for their departure . 
All this time Ruth was quietly spending in her room , beguiling the waiting , weary hours , with pictures of the meeting at the end . 
Her room looked to the back , and was in a side-wing away from the principal state apartments , consequently she was not roused to suspicion by any of the commotion ; but , indeed , if she had heard the banging of doors , the sharp directions , the carriage wheels , she would still not have suspected the truth ; her own love was too faithful . 
It was four o'clock and past , when some one knocked at her door , and , on entering , gave her a note , which Mrs. Bellingham had left . 
Had he , indeed , gone ? 
Ruth started up , and followed the chambermaid . 
She might overtake him -- she might -- she might speak one farewell word to him , print his face on her heart with a last look -- nay , when he saw her he might retract , and not utterly , for ever , leave her . 
Thus she thought ; and she flew back to her room , and snatching up her bonnet , ran , tying the strings with her trembling hands as she went down the stairs , out at the nearest door , little heeding the angry words of Mrs. Morgan ; for the hostess , more irritated at Mrs. Bellingham 's severe upbraiding at parting , than mollified by her ample payment , was offended by the circumstance of Ruth , in her wild haste , passing through the prohibited front door . 
But Ruth was away before Mrs. Morgan had finished her speech , out and away , scudding along the road , thought-lost in the breathless rapidity of her motion . 
Every time it was visible it was in fact more distant , but Ruth would not believe it . 
If she could but gain the summit of that weary , everlasting hill , she believed that she could run again , and would soon be nigh upon the carriage . 
As she ran , she prayed with wild eagerness ; she prayed that she might see his face once more , even if she died on the spot before him . 
As it was , Ruth put her soul into it , and prayed it again , and yet again . 
Wave above wave of the ever-rising hills were gained , were crossed , and at last Ruth struggled up to the very top and stood on the bare table of moor , brown and purple , stretching far away till it was lost in the haze of the summer afternoon ; the white road was all flat before her , but the carriage she sought and the figure she sought had disappeared . 
There was no human being there ; a few wild , black-faced mountain sheep quietly grazing near the road , as if it were long since they had been disturbed by the passing of any vehicle , was all the life she saw on the belak moorland . 
She threw herself down on the ling by the side of the road , in despair . 
Her only hope was to die , and she believed she was dying . 
She could not think ; she could believe anything . 
Surely life was a horrible dream , and God would mercifully awaken her from it . 
She had no penitence , no consciousness of error or offence ; no knowledge of any one circumstance but that he was gone . 
Yet afterwards , long afterwards , she remembered the exact motion of a bright green beetle busily meandering among the wild thyme near her , and she recalled the musical , balanced , wavering drop of a skylark into her nest near the heather-bed where she lay . 
The sun was sinking low , the hot air had ceased to quiver near the hotter earth , when she bethought her once more of the note which she had impatiently thrown down before half mastering its contents . 
`` Oh , perhaps , '' she thought , `` I have been too hasty . 
She lifted herself heavily and stiffly from the crushed heather . 
She stood dizzy and confused with her change of posture ; and was so unable to move at first , that her walk was but slow and tottering ; but , by-and-by , she was tasked and goaded by thoughts which forced her into rapid motion , as if , by it , she could escape from her agony . 
She came down on the level ground , just as many gay or peaceful groups were sauntering leisurely home with hearts at ease ; with low laughs and quiet smiles , and many an exclamation at the beauty of the summer evening . 
Ever since her adventure with the little boy and his sister , Ruth had habitually avoided encountering these happy -- innocents , may I call them ? 
And even now , the habit grounded on sorrowful humiliation had power over her ; she paused , and then , on looking back , she saw more people who had come into the main road from a side path . 
She opened a gate into a pasture-field , and crept up to the hedge-bank until all should have passed by , and she could steal into the inn unseen . 
She sat down on the sloping turf by the roots of an old hawthorn-tree which grew in the hedge ; she was still tearless with hot burning eyes ; she heard the merry walkers pass by ; she heard the footsteps of the village children , as they ran along to their evening play ; she saw the small black cows come into the fields after being milked ; and life seemed yet abroad . 
When would the world be still and dark , and fit for such a deserted , desolate creature as she was ? 
Even in her hiding-place she was not long at peace . 
The little children , with their curious eyes peering here and there , had peeped through the hedge , and through the gate , and now they gathered from all the four corners of the hamlet , and crowded round the gate ; and one more adventurous than the rest , had run into the field to cry , `` Gi ' me a halfpenny , '' which set the example to every little one , emulous of his boldness ; and there , where she sat , low on the ground , and longing for the sure hiding-place earth gives to the weary , the children kept running in , and pushing one another forwards , and laughing . 
Ruth would have begged them to leave her alone , and not madden her utterly ; but they knew no English save the one eternal `` Gi ' me a halfpenny . '' 
She felt in her heart that there was no pity anywhere . 
Suddenly , while she thus doubted God , a shadow fell across her garments , on which her miserable eyes were bent . 
She looked up . 
The deformed gentleman she had twice before seen , stood there . 
Ruth lifted up her eyes , and looked at him with a dim perception of the meaning of his words . 
She regarded him fixedly in a dreamy way , as if they struck some chord in her heart , and she were listening to its echo ; and so it was . 
His pitiful look , or his words , reminded her of the childish days when she knelt at her mother 's knee , and she was only conscious of a straining , longing desire to recal it all . 
He let her take her time , partly because he was powerfully affected himself by all the circumstances , and by the sad pale face upturned to his ; and partly by an instinctive consciousness that the softest patience was required . 
But suddenly she startled him , as she herself was startled into a keen sense of the suffering agony of the present ; she sprang up and pushed him aside , and went rapidly towards the gate of the field . 
Ruth , speeding on in her despair , heard the sharp utterance , and stopped suddenly short . 
It did what no remonstrance could have done ; it called her out of herself . 
The tender nature was in her still , in that hour when all good angels seemed to have abandoned her . 
In the old days she could never bear to hear or see bodily suffering in any of God 's meanest creatures , without trying to succour them ; and now , in her rush to the awful death of the suicide , she stayed her wild steps , and turned to find from whom that sharp sound of anguish had issued . 
He lay among the white stones , too faint with pain to move , but with an agony in his mind far keener than any bodily pain , as he thought that by his unfortunate fall he had lost all chance of saving her . 
He was almost overpowered by his intense thankfulness when he saw her white figure pause , and stand listening , and turn again with slow footsteps , as if searching for some lost thing . 
She came quickly towards him . 
Ruth flew to the little mountain stream , the dashing sound of whose waters had been tempting her , but a moment before , to seek forgetfulness in the deep pool into which they fell . 
She made a basin of her joined hands , and carried enough of the cold fresh water back to dash into his face and restore him to consciousness . 
While he still kept silence , uncertain what to say best fitted to induce her to listen to him , she said softly : `` Are you better , sir ? 
He was so anxious to comply with her wish , and not weary out her thought for him , and so turn her back upon herself , that he tried to rise . 
The pain was acute , and this she saw . 
Then came across her mind the recollection of the business that was thus deferred , but the few homely words which had been exchanged between them seemed to have awakened her from her madness . 
She sat down by him , and , covering her face with her hands , cried mournfully and unceasingly . 
She forgot his presence , and yet she had a consciousness that some one looked for her kind offices , that she was wanted in the world , and must not rush hastily out of it . 
The consciousness did not take this definite form , it did not become a thought , but it kept her still , and it was gradually soothing her . 
She did not speak , but she helped him up , and then he took her arm , and she led him tenderly through all the little velvet paths , where the turf grew short and soft between the rugged stones . 
He guided her by a slight motion of the arm , through the more unfrequented lanes , to his lodgings at the shop ; for he thought for her , and conceived the pain she would have in seeing the lighted windows of the inn . 
He leant more heavily on her arm , as they awaited the opening of the door . 
`` Come in , '' said he , not relaxing his hold , and yet dreading to tighten it , lest she should defy restraint , and once more rush away . 
The deformed gentleman looked very pale , but Ruth looked as if the shadow of death was upon her . 
Ruth stood in the little bow-window , looking out . 
The work they were commanded to do was not here ; the mighty gathering-place lay eastward , immeasurable leagues , and on they went , chasing each other over the silent earth , now black , now silver-white at one transparent edge , now with the moon shining like Hope through their darkest centre , now again with a silver lining ; and now , utterly black , they sailed lower in the lift , and disappeared behind the immovable mountains ; they were rushing in the very direction in which Ruth had striven and struggled to go that afternoon ; they , in their wild career , would soon pass over the very spot where he -LRB- her world 's he -RRB- was lying sleeping , or perhaps not sleeping , perhaps thinking of her . 
The storm was in her mind , and rent and tore her purposes into forms as wild and irregular as the heavenly shapes she was looking at . 
If , like them , she could pass the barrier horizon in the night , she might overtake him . 
Mr. Benson saw her look , and read it partially . 
He saw her longing gaze outwards upon the free , broad world , and thought that the syren waters , whose deadly music yet rang in his ears , were again tempting her . 
He called her to him , praying that his feeble voice might have power . 
He looked at her , but her face was immovable , and she did not speak . 
She could not give up her hope , her chance , her liberty till to-morrow . 
`` God help me , '' said he , mournfully , `` my words do not touch her ; '' and , still holding her hand , he sank back on the pillows . 
Indeed , it was true that his words did not vibrate in her atmosphere . 
The storm-spirit raged there , and filled her heart with the thought that she was an outcast ; and the holy words `` for His sake , '' were answered by the demon , who held possession , with a blasphemous defiance of the merciful God : `` What have I to do with Thee ? '' 
She knelt down at the foot of the sofa , and shook it with her sobs . 
Her heart was touched , and he hardly dared to speak again . 
`` No , '' whispered Ruth ; and then there was a great blank in her heart . 
She had given up her chance . 
She was calm , in the utter absence of all hope . 
She slowly said , `` Yes . '' 
But she was subdued . 
She came from her adjoining shop . 
His voice died away to silence ; but as Ruth rose from her knees at his bidding , she looked at his face through her tears . 
His lips were moving in earnest , unspoken prayer , and she knew it was for her . 
He met Ruth in all possible places and ways , and addressed her in every manner he could imagine most calculated to move and affect her to penitence and virtue . 
Towards morning he fell asleep , but the same thoughts haunted his dreams ; he spoke , but his voice refused to utter aloud ; and she fled , relentless , to the deep , black pool . 
In a very short time he was standing with Mrs. Hughes by Ruth 's bedside . 
She lay as still as if she were dead , her eyes shut , her wan face numbed into a fixed anguish of expression . 
She did not speak when they spoke , though after a while they thought she strove to do so . 
But all power of motion and utterance had left her . 
She was dressed in everything , except her bonnet , as she had been the day before ; although sweet , thoughtful Mrs. Hughes , had provided her with night-gear , which lay on the little chest of drawers that served as a dressing-table . 
It was true that Ruth 's condition ought to be known by those who were her friends ; but were these people to whom he was now going to write , friends ? 
He knew there was a rich mother , and a handsome , elegant son ; and he had also some idea of the circumstances which might a little extenuate their mode of quitting Ruth . 
He had wide enough sympathy to understand that it must have been a most painful position in which the mother had been placed , on finding herself under the same roof with a girl , who was living with her son as Ruth was . 
There was no alteration in Ruth ; she was as one stunned into unconsciousness ; she did not move her posture , she hardly breathed . 
It is awkward though , very , '' said she , relapsing into a musing fit over the condition of Ruth . 
that 's enough , '' said Mrs. Bellingham , sharply , for the maid 's chattering had outrun her tact ; and in her anxiety to vindicate the character of her friend Mrs. Mason by blackening that of Ruth , she had forgotten that she a little implicated her mistress 's son , whom his proud mother did not like to imagine as ever passing through a low and degraded part of the town . 
He had been accustomed from childhood to rely on her prompt judgment and excellent sense ; and to her care he felt that Ruth ought to be consigned , as it was too much to go on taxing good Mrs. Hughes with night watching , and sick nursing , with all her other claims on her time . 
He asked her once more to sit by Ruth , while he went to meet his sister . 
He had asked after various members of his congregation , for he was a Dissenting minister in a country-town , and she had answered ; but they neither of them spoke of Ruth , though their minds were full of her . 
Mrs. Hughes had pinned up a piece of green calico , by way of a Venetian blind , to shut out the afternoon sun ; and in the light thus shaded lay Ruth , still , and wan , and white . 
Even with her brother 's account of Ruth 's state , such death-like quietness startled Miss Benson -- startled her into pity for the poor lovely creature who lay thus stricken and felled . 
Mr. Benson looked more at his sister 's face than at Ruth 's ; he read her countenance as a book . 
Before ten o'clock she reigned sole power and potentate in Ruth 's little chamber . 
It was broad morning light , though barely five o'clock , when Miss Benson caught the sight of Ruth 's lips moving , as if in speech . 
asked Ruth , in the faintest of whispers . 
The words conveyed no knowledge to Ruth ; on the contrary , weak as a babe in mind and body as she was , her lip began to quiver , and her eyes to show a terror similar to that of any little child who wakens in the presence of a stranger , and sees no dear , familiar face of mother or nurse to reassure its trembling heart . 
Mr. Benson had remained in the house all day to hear the doctor 's opinion ; and now that he was relieved from the charge of Ruth by his sister 's presence , he had the more time to dwell upon the circumstances of her case -- so far as they were known to him . 
He remembered his first sight of her ; her little figure swaying to and fro as she balanced herself on the slippery stones , half smiling at her own dilemma , with a bright , happy light in the eyes that seemed like a reflection from the glancing waters sparkling below . 
Then he recalled the changed , affrighted look of those eyes as they met his , after the child 's rebuff of her advances ; -- how that little incident filled up the tale at which Mrs. Hughes had hinted , in a kind of sorrowful way , as if loth -LRB- as a Christian should be -RRB- to believe evil . 
He never believed Ruth to be more guilty than she seemed . 
She was allowed to make noises unnoticed for a few minutes . 
Her brother did not speak . 
At last she wanted his sympathy . 
Her brother was not attending to her ; he was reducing his own ideas to form . 
Ruth moved the bed-curtain aside , in her soft manner , when Miss Benson re-entered the room ; she did not speak , but she looked at her as if she wished her to come near . 
Ruth took her hand in hers and kissed it ; then , as if fatigued even by this slight movement , she fell asleep . 
`` That young creature 's name is Ruth Hilton . '' 
She is much stronger . 
I slept with her last night , and I was aware she was awake long before I liked to speak , but at last I began . 
I do n't know what I said , or how it went on , but I think it was a little relief to her to tell me something about herself . 
She sobbed and cried herself to sleep ; I think she is asleep now . '' 
`` Tell me what she said about herself . '' 
She is an orphan , without brother or sister , and with a guardian , whom , I think she said , she never saw but once . 
He apprenticed her -LRB- after her father 's death -RRB- to a dressmaker . 
This Mr. Bellingham got acquainted with her , and they used to meet on Sunday afternoons . 
She seems to have been very angry , and not unnaturally so . 
When Ruth began to sit up -LRB- and the strange , new , delicious prospect of becoming a mother seemed to give her some mysterious source of strength , so that her recovery was rapid and swift from that time -RRB- , Miss Benson brought her the letters and the bank-note . 
`` Do you recollect receiving this letter , Ruth ? '' 
Ruth changed colour , and took it and read it again without making any reply to Miss Benson . 
Miss Benson went and enclosed it up , there , and then ; simply writing these words in the envelope , `` From Ruth Hilton . '' 
But Ruth looked tearful and sad ; not about returning the note , but from the conviction that the reason she had given for the ground of her determination was true -- he no longer loved her . 
To cheer her , Miss Benson began to speak of the future . 
Thus she grew warm and happy in the idea of taking Ruth home ; but Ruth remained depressed and languid under the conviction that he no longer loved her . 
No home , no future , but the thought of her child , could wean her from this sorrow . 
`` I admired her at the time for sending away her fifty pounds so proudly ; but I think she has a cold heart : she hardly thanked me at all for my proposal of taking her home with us . '' 
`` Her thoughts are full of other things just now ; and people have such different ways of showing feeling : some by silence , some by words . 
`` That is good of her , '' said Miss Benson , her sense of justice satisfied ; and , remembering the way in which Ruth and spoken of the watch , she felt what a sacrifice it must have been to resolve to part with it . 
`` And her goodness just helps us out of our dilemma , '' said her brother ; who was unaware of the feelings with which Ruth regarded her watch , or , perhaps , he might have parted with his Facciolati . 
He even , as Mrs. Hughes had foretold , `` paid money for it ; '' more than was required to defray the expenses of Ruth 's accommodation ; as most of the articles of food she had were paid for at the time by Mr. or Miss Benson , but they strictly forbade Mrs. Hughes to tell Ruth of this . 
But , at the mention of her child , Ruth started and turned ruby-red ; as she always did when allusion was made to it . 
Indeed , '' said she , very low , as if to herself , `` I do n't know how to thank you for all you are doing ; but I do love you , and will pray for you , if I may . '' 
`` If you may , Ruth ! '' 
My dear Ruth , you do n't know how often I sin ; I do so wrong , with my few temptations . 
She had always looked upon herself as so inferior to her brother in real goodness ; had seen such heights above her , that she was distressed by Ruth 's humility . 
After a short time she resumed the subject . 
said Ruth , hastily . 
Miss Benson , who had hitherto kept her eyes averted from Ruth 's face from a motive of kindly delicacy , now looked at her with surprise . 
asked she . 
`` It was my mother 's name , '' said Ruth , in a low voice . 
When she told Mr. Benson of this choice of name , he was rather sorry ; it was like his sister 's impulsive kindness -- impulsive in everything -- and he could imagine how Ruth 's humility had touched her . 
She desired the spare-room might be prepared , and made every provision she could think of for Ruth 's comfort ; for Ruth still remained feeble and weak . 
When the black gown , at which she had stitched away incessantly , was finished -- when nothing remained but to rest for the next day 's journey -- Ruth could not sit still . 
She wandered from window to window , learning off each rock and tree by heart . 
The sound of running waters she heard that quiet evening , was in her ears as she lay on her death-bed ; so well had she learnt their tune . 
She had driven in to Llan-dhu , sitting by her lover 's side , living in the bright present , and strangely forgetful of the past or the future ; she had dreamed out her dream , and she had awakened from the vision of love . 
She walked slowly and sadly down the long hill , her tears fast falling , but as quickly wiped away ; while she strove to make steady the low quivering voice which was often called upon to answer some remark of Miss Benson 's . 
Ruth buried her face in some flowers which Mrs. Hughes had given her on parting ; and was startled when the mail drew up with a sudden pull , which almost threw the horses on their haunches . 
She was placed inside , and the coach had set off again , before she was fully aware that Mr. and Miss Benson were travelling on the outside ; but it was a relief to feel she might now cry without exciting their notice . 
Ruth durst cry no more ; it was no relief , now she was watched and noticed , and plied with a sandwich or a gingerbread each time she looked sad . 
Every now and then , Miss Benson scrambled down , and made kind inquiries of the pale , weary Ruth ; and once they changed coaches , and the fat old lady left her with a hearty shake of the hand . 
`` It is not much further now , '' said Miss Benson , apologetically , to Ruth . 
The first wonder in Ruth 's mind was , why then , if Mr. Benson were so tired , did they not stop where they were for the night ; for she knew little of the expenses of a night at an inn . 
The next thought was , to beg that Mr. Benson would take her place inside the coach , and allow her to mount up by Miss Benson . 
So Mr. Benson got down , and changed places with Ruth . 
She hardly yet understood the numerous small economies which he and his sister had to practise -- the little daily self-denials , -- all endured so cheerfully , and simply , that they had almost ceased to require an effort , and it had become natural to them to think of others before themselves . 
Ruth had not understood that it was for economy that their places had been taken on the outside of the coach , while hers , as an invalid requiring rest , was to be the inside ; and that the biscuits which supplied the place of a dinner were , in fact , chosen because the difference in price between the two would go a little way towards fulfilling their plan for receiving her as an inmate . 
Her thought about money had been hitherto a child 's thought ; the subject had never touched her ; but afterwards , when she had lived a little while with the Bensons , her eyes were opened , and she remembered their simple kindness on the journey , and treasured the remembrance of it in her heart . 
Beyond the place where she was expected to believe it existed , arose round , waving uplands ; nothing to the fine outlines of the Welsh mountains , but still going up nearer to heaven than the rest of the flat world into which she had now entered . 
Even Mr. Benson spoke very cheerfully to Ben , and made many inquiries of him respecting people whose names were strange to Ruth . 
She was cold , and utterly weary . 
She took Miss Benson 's offered arm , and could hardly drag herself as far as the little quiet street in which Mr. Benson 's house was situated . 
She gave Mr. Benson a hearty shake of the hand , and kissed Miss Benson warmly ; then , turning to Ruth , she said , in a loud whisper , `` Who 's you ? '' 
The little narrow passage was cleared , and Miss Benson took Ruth into the sitting-room . 
From the place in which Ruth sat she could see all Sally 's movements ; and though she was not conscious of close or minute observation at the time -LRB- her body being weary , and her mind full of other thoughts -RRB- , yet it was curious how faithfully that scene remained depicted on her memory in after years . 
The square stout , bustling figure , neat and clean in every respect , but dressed in the peculiar , old-fashioned costume of the county , namely , a dark-striped linsey-woolsey petticoat , made very short , displaying sturdy legs in woollen stockings beneath ; a loose kind of jacket called there a `` bedgown , '' made of pink print ; a snow-white apron and cap , both of linen , and the latter made in the shape of a `` mutch ; '' -- these articles completed Sally 's costume , and were painted on Ruth 's memory . 
Whilst Sally was busied in preparing tea , Miss Benson took off Ruth 's things ; and the latter instinctively felt that Sally , in the midst of her movements , was watching their proceedings . 
All these particulars sank unconsciously into Ruth 's mind ; but they did not rise to the surface , and become perceptible , for a length of time . 
She was weary , and much depressed . 
Even the very kindness that ministered to her was overpowering . 
But over the dark , misty moor a little light shone , -- a beacon ; and on that she fixed her eyes , and struggled out of her present deep dejection -- the little child that was coming to her ! 
Mr. Benson was as languid and weary as Ruth , and was silent during all this bustle and preparation . 
His silence was more grateful to Ruth than Miss Benson 's many words , although she felt their kindness . 
As Miss Benson helped the pale Ruth to undress , her voice became less full-toned and hurried ; the hush of approaching night subdued her into a softened , solemn kind of tenderness , and the murmured blessing sounded like granted prayer . 
His heart had been very full of Ruth all day long , and he was afraid of his sister beginning the subject ; so he read on , or seemed to do so , though he hardly saw the letter he held before him . 
Ruth , sleepless , weary , restless with the oppression of a sorrow which she dared not face and contemplate bravely , kept awake all the early part of the night . 
Many a time did she rise , and go to the long casement window , and look abroad over the still and quiet town -- over the grey-stone walls , and chimneys , and old high-pointed roofs -- on to the far-away hilly line of the horizon , lying calm under the bright moonshine . 
It was late in the morning when she woke from her long-deferred slumbers ; and when she went down-stairs , she found Mr. and Miss Benson awaiting her in the parlour . 
Miss Benson was arranging a bunch of China and damask roses in an old-fashioned jar ; they lay , all dewy and fresh , on the white breakfast-cloth when Ruth entered . 
With gentle morning speech they greeted her ; but the quiet repose of the scene was instantly broken by Sally popping in from the kitchen , and glancing at Ruth with sharp reproach . 
She said : `` I reckon I may bring in breakfast , now ? '' 
`` I am afraid I am very late , '' said Ruth . 
Sally came slapping in , and put down some withered , tough , dry toast , with -- `` It 's not my doing if it is like leather ; '' but as no one appeared to hear her , she withdrew to her kitchen , leaving Ruth 's cheeks like crimson at the annoyance she had caused . 
All day long , she had that feeling common to those who go to stay at a fresh house among comparative strangers : a feeling of the necessity that she should become accustomed to the new atmosphere in which she was placed , before she could move and act freely ; it was , indeed , a purer ether , a diviner air , which she was breathing in now , than what she had been accustomed to for long months . 
Ruth sat still and quiet through the long first day . 
She was languid and weary from her journey ; she was uncertain what help she might offer to give in the household duties , and what she might not . 
And , in her languor and in her uncertainty , it was pleasant to watch the new ways of the people among whom she was placed . 
After breakfast , Mr. Benson withdrew to his study , Miss Benson took away the cups and saucers , and , leaving the kitchen door open , talked sometimes to Ruth , sometimes to Sally , while she washed them up . 
Sally had upstairs duties to perform , for which Ruth was thankful , as she kept receiving rather angry glances for her unpunctuality as long as Sally remained down-stairs . 
Miss Benson assisted in the preparation for the early dinner , and brought some kidney-beans to shred into a basin of bright , pure spring-water , which caught and danced in the sunbeams as she sat near the open casement of the parlour , talking to Ruth of things and people which as yet the latter did not understand , and could not arrange and comprehend . 
She was like a child who gets a few pieces of a dissected map , and is confused until a glimpse of the whole unity is shown him . 
Mr. and Mrs. Bradshaw were the centre pieces in Ruth 's map ; their children , their servants , were the accessories ; and one or two other names were occasionally mentioned . 
Ruth wondered and almost wearied at Miss Benson 's perseverance in talking to her about people whom she did not know ; but , in truth , Miss Benson heard the long-drawn , quivering sighs which came from the poor heavy heart , when it was left to silence , and had leisure to review the past ; and her quick accustomed ear caught also the low mutterings of the thunder in the distance , in the shape of Sally 's soliloquies , which , like the asides at a theatre , were intended to be heard . 
Suddenly , Miss Benson called Ruth out of the room , up-stairs into her own bed-chamber , and then began rummaging in little old-fashioned boxes , drawn out of an equally old-fashioned bureau , half desk , half table , and wholly drawers . 
and she pulled out an old wedding-ring , and hurried it on Ruth 's finger . 
Ruth hung down her head , and reddened deep with shame ; her eyes smarted with the hot tears that filled them . 
Ruth went up to her room , and threw herself down on her knees by the bedside , and cried as if her heart would break ; and then , as if a light had come down into her soul , she calmed herself and prayed -- no words can tell how humbly , and with what earnest feeling . 
When she came down , she was tear-stained and wretchedly pale ; but even Sally looked at her with new eyes , because of the dignity with which she was invested by an earnestness of purpose which had her child for its object . 
In this way the day wore on ; early dinner , early tea , seemed to make it preternaturally long to Ruth ; the only event was some unexplained absence of Sally 's , who had disappeared out of the house in the evening , much to Miss Benson 's surprise , and somewhat to her indignation . 
At night , after Ruth had gone up to her room , this absence was explained to her at least . 
She had let down her long waving glossy hair , and was standing absorbed in thought in the middle of the room , when she heard a round clumping knock at her door , different from that given by the small knuckles of delicate fingers , and in walked Sally , with a judge-like severity of demeanour , holding in her hand two widow 's caps of commonest make and coarsest texture . 
She walked up to the beautiful , astonished Ruth , where she stood in her long , soft , white dressing-gown , with all her luxuriant brown hair hanging dishevelled down her figure , and thus Sally spoke : `` Missus -- or miss , as the case may be -- I 've my doubts as to you . 
She laid no light hand on Ruth 's shoulder ; and the latter , partly intimidated by the old servant , who had hitherto only turned her vixen lining to observation , and partly because she was broken-spirited enough to be indifferent to the measure proposed , quietly sat down . 
She expected some remonstrance or some opposition , and had a torrent of words ready to flow forth at the least sign of rebellion ; but Ruth was still and silent , with meekly-bowed head , under the strange hands that were shearing her beautiful hair into the clipped shortness of a boy 's . 
Long before she had finished , Sally had some slight misgivings as to the fancied necessity of her task ; but it was too late , for half the curls were gone , and the rest must now come off . 
When she had done , she lifted up Ruth 's face by placing her hand under the round white chin . 
She gazed into the countenance , expecting to read some anger there , though it had not come out in words ; but she only met the large , quiet eyes , that looked at her with sad gentleness out of their finely-hollowed orbits . 
Ruth 's soft , yet dignified submission , touched Sally with compunction , though she did not choose to show the change in her feelings . 
But in a minute she popped her head into Ruth 's room once more : `` You 'll put on them caps to-morrow morning . 
Ruth felt very shy when she came down -LRB- at half-past seven -RRB- the next morning , in her widow 's cap . 
Her smooth , pale face , with its oval untouched by time , looked more young and child-like than ever , when contrasted with the head-gear usually associated with ideas of age . 
She blushed very deeply as Mr. and Miss Benson showed the astonishment , which they could not conceal , in their looks . 
Miss Benson made no reply ; but was startled at the intelligence , which she thought was conveyed in this speech , of Sally 's acquaintance with Ruth 's real situation . 
She noticed Sally 's looks particularly this morning . 
The manner in which the old servant treated Ruth , had in it far more of respect than there had been the day before ; but there was a kind of satisfied way of braving out Miss Benson 's glances which made the latter uncertain and uncomfortable . 
It was her odd way of ducking her head about , as if to catch a good view of Ruth 's left hand , that made me think of the wedding-ring ; and once , yesterday , when I thought I had made up quite a natural speech , and was saying how sad it was for so young a creature to be left a widow , she broke in with ` widow be farred ! ' 
I do n't mind doing the thing , since you talked to me that day , and since I 've got to know Ruth ; but I do mind all the clatter people will make about it . '' 
people know you too well to think any ill of you , '' said Miss Benson , who was pleased to find the difficulty so easily got over ; for , in truth , Sally had been much softened by the unresisting gentleness with which Ruth had submitted to the `` clipping '' of the night before . 
She found Ruth busy washing the breakfast-things ; and they were done in so quiet and orderly a manner , that neither Miss Benson nor Sally , both particular enough , had any of their little fancies or prejudices annoyed . 
That afternoon , as Miss Benson and Ruth sat at their work , Mrs. and Miss Bradshaw called . 
Miss Benson was so nervous as to surprise Ruth , who did not understand the probable and possible questions which might be asked respecting any visitor at the minister 's house . 
Ruth went on sewing , absorbed in her own thoughts , and glad that the conversation between the two elder ladies and the silence of the younger one , who sat at some distance from her , gave her an opportunity of retreating into the haunts of memory ; and soon the work fell from her hands , and her eyes were fixed on the little garden beyond , but she did not see its flowers or its walls ; she saw the mountains which girdled Llan-dhu , and saw the sun rise from behind their iron outline , just as it had done -- how long age ? 
-- since she had watched the night through , crouched up at his door . 
His moans rang more clearly in her ears than the buzzing of the conversation between Mrs. Bradshaw and Miss Benson . 
At length the subdued , scared-looking little lady and her bright-eyed silent daughter rose to take leave ; Ruth started into the present , and stood up and curtseyed , and turned sick at heart with sudden recollection . 
Miss Benson accompanied Mrs. Bradshaw to the door ; and in the passage gave her a long explanation of Ruth 's -LRB- fictitious -RRB- history . 
She was rather dismayed when he called her into his room after Mrs. Bradshaw 's departure , and asked her what she had been saying about Ruth ? 
Besides , '' said she , with sudden boldness , `` I do think I 've a talent for fiction , it is so pleasant to invent , and make the incidents dovetail together ; and after all , if we are to tell a lie , we may as well do it thoroughly , or else it 's of no use . 
I will restrain myself if I have to talk about Ruth again . 
Ruth sat on a low hassock , and coaxed the least of the little creatures to her , and showed it pictures till it fell asleep in her arms , and sent a thrill through her , at the thought of the tiny darling who would lie on her breast before long , and whom she would have to cherish and to shelter from the storms of the world . 
And then she remembered , that she was once white and sinless as the wee lassie who lay in her arms ; and she knew that she had gone astray . 
Ruth did not see this , or hear aught but the words which were reverently -- oh , how reverently ! 
He had had Ruth present in his thoughts all the time he had been preparing for his Sunday duty ; and he had tried carefully to eschew everything which she might feel as an allusion to her own case . 
He remembered how the Good Shepherd , in Poussin 's beautiful picture , tenderly carried the lambs which had wearied themselves by going astray , and felt how like tenderness was required towards poor Ruth . 
And so it fell out that , as he read , Ruth 's heart was smitten , and she sank down , and down , till she was kneeling on the floor of the pew , and speaking to God in the spirit , if not in the words of the Prodigal Son : `` Father ! 
Miss Benson was thankful -LRB- although she loved Ruth the better for this self-abandonment -RRB- that the minister 's seat was far in the shade of the gallery . 
She tried to look most attentive to her brother , in order that Mr. Bradshaw might not suspect anything unusual , while she stealthily took hold of Ruth 's passive hand , as it lay helpless on the cushion , and pressed it softly and tenderly . 
But Ruth sat on the ground , bowed down and crushed in her sorrow , till all was ended . 
Miss Benson loitered in her seat , divided between the consciousness that she , as locum tenens for the minister 's wife , was expected to be at the door to receive the kind greetings of many after her absence from home , and her unwillingness to disturb Ruth , who was evidently praying , and , by her quiet breathing , receiving grave and solemn influences into her soul . 
At length she rose up , calm and composed even to dignity . 
They were probably those of people waiting for her ; and she summoned courage , and taking Ruth 's arm in hers , and holding her hand affectionately , they went out into the broad daylight . 
Miss Benson glanced at Ruth ; she either did not hear or did not understand , but passed on into the awful sphere of Mr. Bradshaw 's observation unmoved . 
He was in a bland and condescending humour of universal approval , and when he saw Ruth , he nodded his head in token of satisfaction . 
`` After dinner , you must go and lie down , my dear , '' said she , untying Ruth 's bonnet-strings , and kissing her . 
In this way Ruth 's first Sunday passed over . 
`` Here is a parcel for you , Ruth ! '' 
said Ruth , all sorts of rushing thoughts and hopes filling her mind , and turning her dizzy with expectation . 
`` It is in Mrs. Bradshaw 's handwriting ; '' and , far more curious than Ruth , she awaited the untying of the close-knotted string . 
When the paper was opened , it displayed a whole piece of delicate cambric-muslin ; and there was a short note from Mrs. Bradshaw to Ruth , saying her husband had wished her to send this muslin in aid of any preparations Mrs. Denbigh might have to make . 
Ruth said nothing , but coloured up , and sat down again to her employment . 
`` Very fine muslin , indeed , '' said Miss Benson , feeling it , and holding it up against the light , with the air of a connoisseur ; yet all the time she was glancing at Ruth 's grave face . 
The latter kept silence , and showed no wish to inspect her present further . 
At last she said , in a low voice , `` I suppose I may send it back again ? '' 
asked Ruth , still in her quiet voice . 
Ruth was silent for a moment , and then said : `` There are people to whom I love to feel that I owe gratitude -- gratitude which I can not express , and had better not talk about -- but I can not see why a person whom I do not know should lay me under an obligation . 
He had come hastily , for he had much to do ; but he no sooner heard the case than he sat down , and tried to draw some more explicit declaration of her feeling from Ruth , who had remained silent during Miss Benson 's explanation . 
`` Yes , '' she answered , softly . 
Is this it , Ruth ? '' 
asked Ruth . 
I have often been similarly situated to you , Ruth ; Mr. Bradshaw has frequently opposed me on the points on which I feel the warmest -- am the most earnestly convinced . 
Take this muslin , Ruth , for the reason I named ; and thank him as your feelings prompt you . 
Ruth listened to Mr. Benson ; but she had not yet fallen sufficiently into the tone of his mind to understand him fully . 
She only felt that he comprehended her better than Miss Benson , who once more tried to reconcile her to her present , by calling her attention to the length and breadth thereof . 
`` I will do what you wish me , '' she said , after a little pause of thoughtfulness . 
Mr. Benson saw that his sister 's frame of mind was not particularly congenial with Ruth 's , any more than Ruth 's was with Miss Benson 's ; and , putting aside all thought of returning to the business which had appeared to him so important when he came into the room -LRB- but which principally related to himself -RRB- , he remained above an hour in the parlour , interesting them on subjects far removed from the present , and left them at the end of that time soothed and calm . 
But the present gave a new current to Ruth 's ideas . 
Her heart was as yet too sore to speak , but her mind was crowded with plans . 
She asked Sally to buy her -LRB- with the money produced by the sale of a ring or two -RRB- the coarsest linen , the homeliest dark blue print , and similar materials ; on which she set busily to work to make clothes for herself ; and as they were made , she put them on ; and as she put them on , she gave a grace to each , which such homely material and simple shaping had never had before . 
Then the fine linen and delicate soft white muslin , which she had chosen in preference to more expensive articles of dress when Mr. Bellingham had given her carte blanche in London , were cut into small garments , most daintily stitched and made ready for the little creature , for whom in its white purity of soul nothing could be too precious . 
Indeed , Ruth altogether found favour with him . 
Her quiet manner , subdued by an internal consciousness of a deeper cause for sorrow than he was aware of , he interpreted into a very proper and becoming awe of him . 
He looked off from his own prayers to observe how well she attended to hers at chapel ; when he came to any verse in the hymn relating to immortality or a future life , he sang it unusually loud , thinking he should thus comfort her in her sorrow for her deceased husband . 
Though Ruth pleaded delicacy of health , and declined accompanying Mr. and Miss Benson on their visit to Mr. Bradshaw , she still preserved her place in his esteem ; and Miss Benson had to call a little upon her `` talent for fiction '' to spare Ruth from the infliction of further presents , in making which his love of patronising delighted . 
When Ruth sank down to languor and sadness , Miss Benson trotted up-stairs , and rummaged up every article of spare or wornout clothing , and bringing down a variety of strange materials , she tried to interest Ruth in making them up into garments for the poor . 
But though Ruth 's fingers flew through the work , she still sighed with thought and remembrance . 
When she heard the low , long sigh , and saw the dreamy eyes filling with glittering tears , she would say , `` What is the matter , Ruth ? '' 
in a half-reproachful tone , for the sight of suffering was painful to her ; she had done all in her power to remedy it ; and , though she acknowledged a cause beyond her reach for Ruth 's deep sorrow , and , in fact , loved and respected her all the more for these manifestations of grief , yet at the time they irritated her . 
Then Ruth would snatch up the dropped work , and stitch away with drooping eyes , from which the hot tears fell fast ; and Miss Benson was then angry with herself , yet not at all inclined to agree with Sally when she asked her mistress `` why she kept ` mithering ' the poor lass with asking her for ever what was the matter , as if she did not know well enough . '' 
The earth was still `` hiding her guilty front with innocent snow , '' when a little baby was laid by the side of the pale white mother . 
Oh , how Ruth prayed , even while she was yet too weak to speak ; and how she felt the beauty and significance of the words , `` Our Father ! '' 
She was roused from this holy abstraction by the sound of Miss Benson 's voice . 
`` Look , Ruth ! '' 
And she put them on the pillow by Ruth ; the baby lay on the opposite side . 
said Ruth ; `` he is so pretty ! '' 
Miss Benson had a strange reluctance to see him . 
To Ruth , in spite of all that had come and gone , she was reconciled -- nay , more , she was deeply attached ; but over the baby there hung a cloud of shame and disgrace . 
Poor little creature , her heart was closed against it -- firmly , as she thought . 
But she could not resist Ruth 's low faint voice , nor her pleading eyes , and she went round to peep at him as he lay in his mother 's arm , as yet his shield and guard . 
`` Sally says he will have black hair , she thinks , '' said Ruth . 
Just feel how firmly he closes it ; '' and with her own weak fingers she opened his little red fist , and taking Miss Benson 's reluctant hand , placed one of her fingers in his grasp . 
said Ruth , falling back weak and weary . 
A pang of affright shot through Ruth 's heart at these words ; had she already sinned and made her child into an idol , and was there punishment already in store for her through him ? 
`` Now go to sleep , Ruth , '' said Miss Benson , kissing her , and darkening the room . 
But Ruth could not sleep ; if her heavy eyes closed , she opened them again with a start , for sleep seemed to be an enemy stealing from her the consciousness of being a mother . 
For Ruth believed there was a worse . 
She dreamt she saw the girl , wandering , lost ; and that she saw her son in high places , prosperous -- but with more than blood on his soul . 
She saw her son dragged down by the clinging girl into some pit of horrors into which she dared not look , but from whence his father 's voice was heard , crying aloud , that in his day and generation he had not remembered the words of God , and that now he was `` tormented in this flame . '' 
Then she started in sick terror , and saw , by the dim rushlight , Sally , nodding in an arm-chair by the fire ; and felt her little soft warm babe , nestled up against her breast , rocked by her heart , which yet beat hard from the effects of the evil dream . 
Sally and Miss Benson took it in turns to sit up , or rather , they took it in turns to nod by the fire ; for if Ruth was awake she lay very still in the moonlight calm of her sick bed . 
The white snowy rolling mist covers up under its great sheet all trees and meadows , and tokens of earth ; but it can not rise high enough to shut out the heavens , which on such nights seem bending very near , and to be the only real and present objects ; and so near , so real and present , did heaven , and eternity , and God seem to Ruth , as she lay encircling her mysterious holy child . 
asked Ruth . 
But Ruth said she would rather hear about Sally 's sweethearts , much to the disappointment of the latter , who considered the dinner by far the greatest achievement . 
Sally waited for some exclamation at the conclusion of her tale ; but receiving none , she stepped softly to the bedside , and there lay Ruth , peaceful as death , with her baby on her breast . 
So Ruth strove and strengthened , and her baby flourished accordingly ; and before the little celandines were out on the hedge-banks , or the white violets had sent forth their fragrance from the border under the south wall of Miss Benson 's small garden , Ruth was able to carry her baby into that sheltered place on sunny days . 
She often wished to thank Mr. Benson and his sister , but she did not know how to tell the deep gratitude she felt , and therefore she was silent . 
But they understood her silence well . 
One day , as she watched her sleeping child , she spoke to Miss Benson , with whom she happened to be alone . 
said Miss Benson , dropping her knitting , in order to observe Ruth more closely . 
`` I mean , '' said Ruth , `` where I might lodge with my baby -- any very poor place would do , only it must be clean , or he might be ill . '' 
Ruth did not lift up her eyes , but she spoke with a firmness which showed that she had considered the subject . 
somebody who would be patient with me , '' said Ruth . 
`` Perhaps I could find plain work to do , '' said Ruth , very meekly . 
Ruth took him up , and carried him about the room while she went on speaking . 
Ruth ! 
Now brother '' -LRB- Mr. Benson had just come in -RRB- , `` is not this too bad of Ruth ; here she is planning to go away and leave us , just as we -- as I , at least -- have grown so fond of baby , and he 's beginning to know me . '' 
`` Where were you thinking of going to , Ruth ? '' 
Mr. Benson thought a minute or two , and then he spoke to Ruth . 
`` Whatever you may do when this little fellow is a year old , and able to dispense with some of a mother 's care , let me beg you , Ruth , as a favour to me -- as a still greater favour to my sister , is it not , Faith ? '' 
Never fear leading an idle life , Ruth . 
Ruth was sobbing . 
`` I do not deserve your kindness , '' said she , in a broken voice ; `` I do not deserve it . '' 
Her tears fell fast and soft like summer rain , but no further word was spoken . 
But when there was nothing to decide upon , and no necessity for entering upon any new course of action , Ruth 's mind relaxed from its strung-up state . 
She fell into trains of reverie , and mournful regretful recollections which rendered her languid and tearful . 
This was noticed both by Miss Benson and Sally , and as each had keen sympathies , and felt depressed when they saw any one near them depressed , and as each , without much reasoning on the cause or reason for such depression , felt irritated at the uncomfortable state into which they themselves were thrown , they both resolved to speak to Ruth on the next fitting occasion . 
Accordingly , one afternoon -- the morning of that day had been spent by Ruth in house-work , for she had insisted on Mr. Benson 's words , and had taken Miss Benson 's share of the more active and fatiguing household duties , but she went through them heavily , and as if her heart was far away -- in the afternoon when she was nursing her child , Sally , on coming into the back parlour , found her there alone , and easily detected the fact that she was crying . 
`` Gone out with Mr. Benson , '' answered Ruth , with an absent sadness in her voice and manner . 
Her tears , scarce checked while she spoke , began to fall afresh ; and as Sally stood and gazed she saw the babe look back in his mother 's face , and his little lip begin to quiver , and his open blue eye to grow over-clouded , as with some mysterious sympathy with the sorrowful face bent over him . 
Sally took him briskly from his mother 's arms ; Ruth looked up in grave surprise , for in truth she had forgotten Sally 's presence , and the suddenness of the motion startled her . 
Any one but a child like thee , '' continued she , turning to Ruth , `` would have known better than to bring ill-luck on thy babby by letting tears fall on its face before it was weaned . 
Sally did not look at Ruth , for she was too much engaged in amusing the baby with the tassel of the string to the window-blind , or else she would have seen the dignity which the mother 's soul put into Ruth at that moment . 
Sally was quelled into silence by the gentle composure , the self-command over her passionate sorrow , which gave to Ruth an unconscious grandeur of demeanour as she came up to the old servant . 
Thank you , Sally , '' as the servant relinquished him to her who came in the name of a mother . 
Sally watched Ruth 's grave , sweet smile , as she followed up Sally 's play with the tassel , and imitated , with all the docility inspired by love , every movement and sound which had amused her babe . 
`` Thou ` lt be a mother , after all , '' said Sally , with a kind of admiration of the control which Ruth was exercising over herself . 
said Ruth ; `` I try to do all I can . '' 
But she saw with much satisfaction , that henceforward Ruth nursed her boy with a vigour and cheerfulness that were reflected back from him ; and the household work was no longer performed with a languid indifference , as if life and duty were distasteful . 
One day as she and Ruth sat together , Miss Benson spoke of the child , and thence went on to talk about her own childhood . 
By degrees they spoke of education , and the book-learning that forms one part of it ; and the result was that Ruth determined to get up early all through the bright summer mornings , to acquire the knowledge hereafter to be given to her child . 
Her mind was uncultivated , her reading scant ; beyond the mere mechanical arts of education she knew nothing ; but she had a refined taste , and excellent sense and judgment to separate the true from the false . 
With these qualities , she set to work under Mr. Benson 's directions . 
She read in the early morning the books that he marked out ; she trained herself with strict perseverance to do all thoroughly ; she did not attempt to acquire any foreign language , although her ambition was to learn Latin , in order to teach it to her boy . 
Those summer mornings were happy , for she was learning neither to look backwards nor forwards , but to live faithfully and earnestly in the present . 
She rose while the hedge-sparrow was yet singing his rveille to his mate ; she dressed and opened her window , shading the soft-blowing air and the sunny eastern light from her baby . 
If she grew tired , she went and looked at him , and all her thoughts were holy prayers for him . 
Then she would gaze a while out of the high upper window on to the moorlands , that swelled in waves one behind the other , in the grey , cool morning light . 
These were her occasional relaxations , and after them she returned with strength to her work . 
There had been many conversations in the little sitting-room between the brother and sister and their protege , which had consisted more of questions betraying a thoughtful wondering kind of ignorance on the part of Ruth , and answers more suggestive than explanatory from Mr. Benson ; while Miss Benson kept up a kind of running commentary , always simple and often quaint , but with that intuition into the very heart of all things truly religious which is often the gift of those who seem , at first sight , to be only affectionate and sensible . 
When Mr. Benson had explained his own views of what a christening ought to be considered , and , by calling out Ruth 's latent feelings into pious earnestness , brought her into a right frame of mind , he felt that he had done what he could to make the ceremony more than a mere form , and to invest it , quiet , humble , and obscure as it must necessarily be in outward shape -- mournful and anxious as much of its antecedents had rendered it -- with the severe grandeur of an act done in faith and truth . 
The whole procession was to have consisted of Mr. and Miss Benson , Ruth carrying her babe , and Sally , who felt herself , as a Church-of-England woman , to be condescending and kind in requesting leave to attend a baptism among `` them Dissenters ; '' but unless she had asked permission , she would not have been desired to attend , so careful was the habit of her master and mistress that she should be allowed that freedom which they claimed for themselves . 
Both her brother and Ruth shared in this feeling , although no one expressed it ; and it was presently forgotten . 
She thought Ruth looked so pale and awed because she was left a solitary parent ; but Ruth came to the presence of God , as one who had gone astray , and doubted her own worthiness to be called His child ; she came as a mother who had incurred a heavy responsibility , and who entreated His almighty aid to enable her to discharge it ; full of passionate , yearning love which craved for more faith in God , to still her distrust and fear of the future that might hang over her darling . 
When she thought of her boy , she sickened and trembled ; but when she heard of God 's loving kindness , far beyond all tender mother 's love , she was hushed into peace and prayer . 
He and Ruth forgot all in their earnestness of thought ; and when he said `` Let us pray , '' and the little congregation knelt down , you might have heard the baby 's faint breathing , scarcely sighing out upon the stillness , so absorbed were all in the solemnity . 
Miss Bradshaw hung about the babe and Ruth , and begged to be allowed to carry the child home , but Ruth pressed him to her , as if there was no safe harbour for him but in his mother 's breast . 
While Sally was clearing away the tea-things , Miss Benson and Jemima accompanied Ruth upstairs , when she went to put little Leonard to bed . 
said Jemima , hastily , and wanting to return to her question ; but just then she caught the sight of tears falling fast down the cheeks of the silent Ruth as she bent over her child , crowing and splashing away in his tub . 
With a sudden consciousness that unwittingly she had touched on some painful chord , Jemima rushed into another subject , and was eagerly seconded by Miss Benson . 
Her admiration for beauty was keen , and little indulged at home ; and Ruth was very beautiful in her quiet mournfulness ; her mean and homely dress left her herself only the more open to admiration , for she gave it a charm by her unconscious wearing of it that made it seem like the drapery of an old Greek statue -- subordinate to the figure it covered , yet imbued by it with an unspeakable grace . 
Then the pretended circumstances of her life were such as to catch the imagination of a young romantic girl . 
Altogether , Jemima could have kissed her hand and professed herself Ruth 's slave . 
She moved away all the articles used at this little coucher ; she folded up Leonard 's day-clothes ; she felt only too much honoured when Ruth trusted him to her for a few minutes -- only too amply rewarded when Ruth thanked her with a grave , sweet smile , and a grateful look of her loving eyes . 
`` Leonard shall never be afraid of me , '' said Ruth , following her own train of thought . 
`` What made you wish to call him Leonard , Ruth ? '' 
`` It was my mother 's father 's name ; and she used to tell me about him and his goodness , and I thought if Leonard could be like him -- '' `` Do you remember the discussion there was about Miss Bradshaw 's name , Thurstan ? 
`` I did not know Jemima was a Scripture name , '' said Ruth . 
Ruth was arranging her child 's clothes against the morrow . 
Yet , somehow , the peacefulness of the time , the window open into the little garden , the scents that came stealing in , and the clear summer heaven above , made the time be remembered as a happy festival by Ruth . 
Even Sally seemed more placid than usual when she came in to prayers ; and she and Miss Benson followed Ruth to her bedroom , to look at the beautiful sleeping Leonard . 
`` Now , do n't get up too early , Ruth ! 
When Ruth had shut her door , she went again to the bed , and looked at her boy till her eyes filled with tears . 
But then his pupils were only children , and by their progress he was little prepared for Ruth 's . 
She had had early teaching , of that kind which need never be unlearnt , from her mother ; enough to unfold many of her powers ; they had remained inactive now for several years , but had grown strong in the dark and quiet time . 
Her tutor was surprised at the bounds by which she surmounted obstacles , the quick perception and ready adaptation of truths and first principles , and her immediate sense of the fitness of things . 
Her delight in what was strong and beautiful called out her master 's sympathy ; but , most of all , he admired the complete unconsciousness of uncommon power , or unusual progress . 
It was less of a wonder than he considered it to be , it is true , for she never thought of comparing what she was now with her former self , much less with another . 
Indeed , she did not think of herself at all , but of her boy , and what she must learn in order to teach him to be and to do as suited her hope and her prayer . 
If any one 's devotion could have flattered her into self-consciousness , it was Jemima 's . 
Mr. Bradshaw never dreamed that his daughter could feel herself inferior to the minister 's protege , but so it was ; and no knight-errant of old could consider himself more honoured by his ladye 's commands than did Jemima , if Ruth allowed her to do anything for her or for her boy . 
Ruth loved her heartily , even while she was rather annoyed at the open expressions Jemima used of admiration . 
Ruth spoke so gravely , that Jemima feared lest she was displeased . 
said Ruth , with a tender kiss . 
Jemima would not have been allowed to come so frequently if Mr. Bradshaw had not been possessed with the idea of patronising Ruth . 
If the latter had chosen , she might have gone dressed from head to foot in the presents which he wished to make her , but she refused them constantly ; occasionally to Miss Benson 's great annoyance . 
Mrs. Bradshaw , in her lack-a-daisical , sweet-tempered way , seconded her husband in his desire of being kind to Ruth ; and as she cherished privately a great taste for what was beautiful or interesting , as opposed to her husband 's love of the purely useful , this taste of hers had rarely had so healthy and true a mode of gratification as when she watched Ruth 's movements about the room , which seemed in its unobtrusiveness and poverty of colour to receive the requisite ornament of light and splendour from Ruth 's presence . 
By-and-by , Mrs. Bradshaw and Miss Benson fell into one tte--tte , and Ruth and Jemima into another . 
Just before the supper-tray was brought in , a gentleman was announced whom Ruth had never previously seen , but who appeared well known to the rest of the party . 
Ruth wondered to hear him contradict Mr. Bradshaw , and almost expected some rebuff , but Mr. Bradshaw , if he did not yield the point , admitted , for the first time that evening , that it was possible something might be said on the other side . 
For these reasons , although Mr. Farquhar had never spoken to Ruth , she came away with the impression that he was a man to be respected , and perhaps liked . 
Ruth wondered a little about it . 
She loved Jemima well enough to be interested in what related to her ; but , after thinking for a few minutes , she decided that such a marriage was , and would ever be , very unlikely . 
They intended to stay to tea if they were invited , and Ruth and Sally were left to spend a long afternoon together . 
At first , Sally was busy in her kitchen , and Ruth employed herself in carrying her baby out into the garden . 
It was now nearly a year since she came to the Bensons ' ; it seemed like yesterday , and yet as if a life time had gone between . 
The flowers were budding now , that were all in bloom when she came down , on the first autumnal morning , into the sunny parlour . 
Ruth knew every plant now ; it seemed as though she had always lived here , and always known the inhabitants of the house . 
She heard Sally singing her accustomed song in the kitchen , a song she never varied over her afternoon 's work . 
But the strange change was in Ruth herself . 
She was conscious of it though she could not define it , and did not dwell upon it . 
Life had become significant and full of duty to her . 
She delighted in the exercise of her intellectual powers , and liked the idea of the infinite amount of which she was ignorant ; for it was a grand pleasure to learn -- to crave , and be satisfied . 
She strove to forget what had gone before this last twelve months . 
She shuddered up from contemplating it ; it was like a bad , unholy dream . 
And yet , there was a strange yearning kind of love for the father of the child whom she pressed to her heart , which came , and she could not bid it begone as sinful , it was so pure and natural , even when thinking of it , as in the sight of God . 
Little Leonard cooed to the flowers , and stretched after their bright colours ; and Ruth laid him on the dry turf , and pelted him with the gay petals . 
He chinked and crowed with laughing delight , and clutched at her cap , and pulled it off . 
Her short rich curls were golden-brown in the slanting sunlight , and by their very shortness made her look more child-like . 
She hardly seemed as if she could be the mother of the noble babe over whom she knelt , now snatching kisses , now matching his cheek with rose leaves . 
Ruth was still in a moment , she knew not why ; and the tears came into her eyes as she listened . 
When it was ended , she kissed her baby , and bade God bless him . 
She had done her work , and she and Ruth were to drink tea together in the exquisitely clean kitchen ; but while the kettle was boiling , she came out to enjoy the flowers . 
She gathered a piece of southern-wood , and stuffed it up her nose , by way of smelling it . 
asked she . 
`` Old-man , '' replied Ruth . 
She quite put on her company manners to receive Ruth in the kitchen . 
After shaking her head a little over the degeneracy of the times , Sally returned to a part of the subject on which she thought she had given Ruth a wrong idea . 
So I flung off in a huff ; but in the course of the evening , Master Thurstan came in and sat down in the kitchen , and he 's such winning ways he wiles one over to anything ; and besides , a notion had come into my head -- now you 'll not tell , '' said she , glancing round the room , and hitching her chair nearer to Ruth in a confidential manner ; Ruth promised , and Sally went on : `` I thought I should like to be an heiress wi ' money , and leave it all to Master and Miss Faith ; and I thought if I 'd six pound a year I could , maybe , get to be an heiress ; all I was feared on was that some chap or other might marry me for my money , but I 've managed to keep the fellows off ; so I looks mim and grateful , and I thanks Master Thurstan for his offer , and I takes the wages ; and what do you think I 've done ? '' 
asked Ruth . 
said she , slapping Ruth on the back . 
asked Ruth . 
She held up her hand , and threatened Ruth as she left the kitchen to fetch the will . 
When she came back , she brought a parcel tied up in a blue pocket-handkerchief ; she sat down , squared her knees , untied the handkerchief , and displayed a small piece of parchment . 
said she , holding it up . 
said she , giving it to Ruth . 
Ruth smiled , and began to read ; Sally listening with rapt attention . 
When Ruth came to the word `` testatrix , '' Sally stopped her . 
Presently Ruth read , `` accruing . '' 
The time was now drawing near when little Leonard might be weaned -- the time appointed by all three for Ruth to endeavour to support herself in some way more or less independent of Mr. and Miss Benson . 
Have not you often wondered what was to be done with Ruth when the time came at which we promised her she should earn her living ? 
He made it very clear I was not to bring Ruth ; and , indeed , she was only too happy to stay at home with baby . 
And so I went ; and Mrs. Bradshaw took me into her bedroom , and shut the doors , and said Mr. Bradshaw had told her , that he did not like Jemima being so much confined with the younger ones while they were at their lessons , and that he wanted some one above a nursemaid to sit with them while their masters were there -- some one who would see about their learning their lessons , and who would walk out with them ; a sort of nursery governess I think she meant , though she did not say so ; and Mr. Bradshaw -LRB- for , of course , I saw his thoughts and words constantly peeping out , though he had told her to speak to me -RRB- believed that our Ruth would be the very person . 
Now , Thurstan , do n't look so surprised , as if she had never come into your head ! 
`` I ought to go and tell Mr. Bradshaw the whole story -- '' `` And get Ruth turned out of our house , '' said Miss Benson , indignantly . 
`` Yes , Mr. Bradshaw would try ; and he would blazon out poor Ruth 's sin , and there would not be a chance for her left . 
`` A year ago , he did not want to put her in a situation of trust about his children . '' 
`` And you think she 'll abuse that trust , do you ? 
You 've lived a twelvemonth in the house with Ruth , and the end of it is , you think she will do his children harm ! 
Besides , who encouraged Jemima to come to the house so much to see Ruth ? 
`` If you had not known Ruth as well as you do -- if during her stay with us you had marked anything wrong , or forward , or deceitful , or immodest , I would say at once , do n't allow Mr. Bradshaw to take her into his house ; but still I would say , do n't tell of her sin and her sorrow to so severe a man -- so unpitiful a judge . 
But here I ask you , Thurstan , can you , or I , or Sally -LRB- quick-eyed as she is -RRB- , say , that in any one thing we have had true , just occasion to find fault with Ruth ? 
I do n't mean that she is perfect -- she acts without thinking , her temper is sometimes warm and hasty ; but have we any right to go and injure her prospects for life , by telling Mr. Bradshaw all we know of her errors -- only sixteen when she did so wrong , and never to escape from it all her many years to come -- to have the despair which would arise from its being known , clutching her back into worse sin ? 
What harm do you think she can do ? 
`` I have watched Ruth , and I believe she is pure and truthful ; and the very sorrow and penitence she has felt -- the very suffering she has gone through -- has given her a thoughtful conscientiousness beyond her age . '' 
`` That and the care of her baby , '' said Miss Benson , secretly delighted at the tone of her brother 's thoughts . 
`` But to return to Ruth and Mr. Bradshaw . 
They would understand that I must consult you and Ruth , before it could be considered as finally settled . '' 
`` And have you named it to her ? '' 
`` And what did she say ? '' 
`` At first she seemed very glad , and fell into my mood of planning how it should all be managed ; how Sally and I should take care of the baby the hours that she was away at Mr. Bradshaw 's ; but by-and-by she became silent and thoughtful , and knelt down by me and hid her face in my lap , and shook a little as if she was crying ; and then I heard her speak in a very low smothered voice , for her head was still bent down -- quite hanging down , indeed , so that I could not see her face , so I stooped to listen , and I heard her say , ` Do you think I should be good enough to teach little girls , Miss Benson ? ' 
And I said then , ` Ruth , as you strive and as you pray for your own child , so you must strive and pray to make Mary and Elizabeth good , if you are trusted with them . ' 
One who had known them at the date of Ruth 's becoming a governess in Mr. Bradshaw 's family , and had been absent until the time of which I am now going to tell you , would have noted some changes which had imperceptibly come over all ; but he , too , would have thought , that the life which had brought so little of turmoil and vicissitude must have been calm and tranquil , and in accordance with the bygone activity of the town in which their existence passed away . 
Ruth was there , quiet , very pale , and with compressed lips , sick at heart as she heard Miss Benson 's arguments for the necessity of whipping , in order to cure Leonard of his story-telling . 
At any rate , the vote for whipping carried the day ; and even Ruth , trembling and cold , agreed that it must be done ; only she asked , in a meek , sad voice , if she need be present -LRB- Mr. Benson was to be the executioner -- the scene , the study -RRB- ; and being instantly told that she had better not , she went slowly and languidly up to her room , and kneeling down , she closed her ears , and prayed . 
But although decided and prompt as ever , Miss Benson was grown older since the summer afternoon when she dismounted from the coach at the foot of the long Welsh hill that led to Llan-dhu , where her brother awaited her to consult her about Ruth . 
It was not one where the sitting-rooms are refurnished every two or three years ; not now , even -LRB- since Ruth came to share their living -RRB- a place where , as an article grew shabby or worn , a new one was purchased . 
The laburnum-tree , which when Ruth came was like a twig stuck into the ground , was now a golden glory in spring , and a pleasant shade in summer . 
But , perhaps , in Ruth herself there was the greatest external change ; for of the change which had gone on in her heart , and mind , and soul , or if there had been any , neither she nor any one around her was conscious ; but sometimes Miss Benson did say to Sally , `` How very handsome Ruth is grown ! '' 
she 's well enough . 
But even Sally could not help secretly admiring Ruth . 
If her early brilliancy of colouring was gone , a clear ivory skin , as smooth as satin , told of complete and perfect health , and was as lovely , if not so striking in effect , as the banished lilies and roses . 
Her hair had grown darker and deeper , in the shadow that lingered in its masses ; her eyes , even if you could have guessed that they had shed bitter tears in their day , had a thoughtful spiritual look about them , that made you wonder at their depth , and look -- and look again . 
The increase of dignity in her face had been imparted to her form . 
I do not know if she had grown taller since the birth of her child , but she looked as if she had . 
And although she had lived in a very humble home , yet there was something about either it or her , or the people amongst whom she had been thrown during the last few years , which had so changed her , that whereas , six or seven years ago , you would have perceived that she was not altogether a lady by birth and education , yet now she might have been placed among the highest in the land , and would have been taken by the most critical judge for their equal , although ignorant of their conventional etiquette -- an ignorance which she would have acknowledged in a simple childlike way , being unconscious of any false shame . 
Her whole heart was in her boy . 
She often feared that she loved him too much -- more than God himself -- yet she could not bear to pray to have her love for her child lessened . 
But she would kneel down by his little bed at night -- at the deep , still midnight -- with the stars that kept watch over Rizpah shining down upon her , and tell God what I have now told you , that she feared she loved her child too much , yet could not , would not , love him less ; and speak to Him of her one treasure as she could speak to no earthly friend . 
And so , unconsciously , her love for her child led her up to love to God , to the All-knowing , who read her heart . 
It might be superstition -- I dare say it was -- but , somehow , she never lay down to rest without saying , as she looked her last on her boy , `` Thy will , not mine , be done ; '' and even while she trembled and shrunk with infinite dread from sounding the depths of what that will might be , she felt as if her treasure were more secure to waken up rosy and bright in the morning , as one over whose slumbers God 's holy angels had watched , for the very words which she had turned away in sick terror from realising the night before . 
Her daily absence at her duties to the Bradshaw children only ministered to her love for Leonard . 
Ruth gave the Bradshaws the highest satisfaction , as Mr. Bradshaw often said both to her and to the Bensons ; indeed , she rather winced under his pompous approbation . 
But his favourite recreation was patronising ; and when Ruth saw how quietly and meekly Mr. Benson submitted to gifts and praise , when an honest word of affection , or a tacit , implied acknowledgment of equality , would have been worth everything said and done , she tried to be more meek in spirit , and to recognise the good that undoubtedly existed in Mr. Bradshaw . 
Mary and Elizabeth were the two girls whom Ruth had in charge ; they resembled Jemima more than their brother in character . 
They loved Ruth dearly , made a great pet of Leonard , and had many profound secrets together , most of which related to their wonders if Jemima and Mr. Farquhar would ever be married . 
Ruth rose early , and shared the household work with Sally and Miss Benson , till seven ; and then she helped Leonard to dress , and had a quiet time alone with him till prayers and breakfast . 
And so the peaceful days passed on into weeks , and months , and years , and Ruth and Leonard grew and strengthened into the riper beauty of their respective ages ; while as yet no touch of decay had come on the quaint , primitive elders of the household . 
It was a wonderful proof of the influence Ruth had gained in the family , that Mr. Bradshaw , after much deliberation , congratulated himself on the wise determination he had made of requesting her to speak to Jemima , and find out what feeling was at the bottom of all this change in her ways of going on . 
Ruth came . 
But Ruth did not quite comprehend what was required of her , and disliked the glimpse she had gained of the task very much . 
asked Ruth , a little astonished , and shrinking more than ever from the proposed task . 
`` I beg your pardon , sir , '' said Ruth , gently . 
Warned by me , and , consequently , with your observation quickened , you can hardly fail to notice instances of what I have pointed out ; and then I will trust to your own good sense '' -LRB- Mr. Bradshaw bowed to her at this part of his sentence -RRB- `` to find an opportunity to remonstrate with her . '' 
Ruth was beginning to speak , but he waved his hand for another minute of silence . 
`` I am afraid I can not do it , '' Ruth began : but while she was choosing words delicate enough to express her reluctance to act as he wished , he had almost bowed her out of the room ; and thinking that she was modest in her estimate of her qualifications for remonstrating with his daughter , he added , blandly , `` No one so able , Mrs. Denbigh . 
If he had observed Ruth that morning , he would have seen an absence of mind , and depression of spirits , not much to her credit as a teacher ; for she could not bring herself to feel , that she had any right to go into the family purposely to watch over and find fault with any one member of it . 
If she had seen anything wrong in Jemima , Ruth loved her so much that she would have told her of it in private ; and with many doubts , how far she was the one to pull out the mote from any one 's eye , even in the most tender manner ; -- she would have had to conquer reluctance before she could have done even this ; but there was something undefinably repugnant to her in the manner of acting which Mr. Bradshaw had proposed , and she determined not to accept the invitations which were to place her in so false a position . 
But as she was leaving the house , after the end of the lessons , while she stood in the hall tying on her bonnet , and listening to the last small confidences of her two pupils , she saw Jemima coming in through the garden-door , and was struck by the change in her looks . 
She looked up , and her eyes met Ruth 's . 
And her face changing to a soft , tender look , she went up to Ruth , and kissed her fondly ; as if it were a relief to be near some one on whose true pure heart she relied . 
Ruth returned the caress ; and even while she did so , she suddenly rescinded her resolution to keep clear of what Mr. Bradshaw had desired her to do . 
On her way home she resolved , if she could , to find out what were Jemima 's secret feelings ; and if -LRB- as from some previous knowledge she suspected -RRB- they were morbid and exaggerated in any way , to try and help her right with all the wisdom which true love gives . 
A few days after Ruth 's conversation with Mr. Bradshaw , the invitation she had been expecting , yet dreading , came . 
It was to her alone . 
Ruth came down-stairs with a little flush on her cheeks when she was ready to go . 
She held her bonnet and shawl in her hand , for she knew Miss Benson and Sally would want to see her dressed . 
`` I think my ruff looks so nice , '' said Ruth , with gentle pleasure . 
Her hair , now grown long and thick , was smoothed as close to her head as its waving nature would allow , and plaited up in a great rich knot low down behind . 
`` You should have light gloves , Ruth , '' said Miss Benson . 
`` Here , Ruth , '' said Mr. Benson , coming in from the garden , `` here 's a rose or two for you . 
When she saw Ruth she brightened a little , and went to her and kissed her . 
I thought your father was here , '' said she , evidently relieved to find that he had not come in and caught her sleeping . 
Jemima had been talking to Ruth with some interest before then ; but , on seeing Mr. Farquhar , she bent her head down over her work , went a little paler , and turned obstinately silent . 
She turned away pettishly , and asked Ruth to hold it for her . 
Ruth was hurt for Mr. Farquhar , and looked sorrowfully at Jemima ; but Jemima would not see her glance of upbraiding , as Ruth , hoping that she would relent , delayed a little to comply with her request . 
He saw Jemima turbulent and stormy in look ; he saw Ruth , to all appearance , heavenly calm as the angels , or with only that little tinge of sorrow which her friend 's behaviour had called forth . 
He saw the unusual beauty of her face and form , which he had never noticed before ; and he saw Jemima , with all the brilliancy she once possessed in eyes and complexion , dimmed and faded . 
He watched Ruth , speaking low and soft to the little girls , who seemed to come to her in every difficulty ; and he remarked her gentle firmness when their bedtime came , and they pleaded to stay up longer -LRB- their father was absent in his counting-house , or they would not have dared to do so -RRB- . 
He liked Ruth 's soft , distinct , unwavering `` No ! 
He was wandering off into this comparison , while Ruth , with delicate and unconscious tact , was trying to lead Jemima into some subject which should take her away from the thoughts , whatever they were , that made her so ungracious and rude . 
Jemima was ashamed of herself before Ruth , in a way which she had never been before any one else . 
She valued Ruth 's good opinion so highly , that she dreaded lest her friend should perceive her faults . 
She put a check upon herself -- a check at first ; but after a little time she had forgotten something of her trouble , and listened to Ruth , and questioned her about Leonard , and smiled at his little witticisms ; and only the sighs , that would come up from the very force of habit , brought back the consciousness of her unhappiness . 
He never doubted but that Ruth had given her some sort of private exhortation to behave better . 
He could not have understood the pretty art with which , by simply banishing unpleasant subjects , and throwing a wholesome natural sunlit tone over others , Ruth had insensibly drawn Jemima out of her gloom . 
He did not believe she had a silk gown , poor creature ! 
He had noticed that dark grey stuff , this long long time , as her Sunday dress . 
For he had no doubt she would like to have it remarked , and , perhaps , would not object to tell people that it was a present from Mr. Bradshaw -- a token of his approbation . 
He smiled a little to himself as he thought of this additional source of pleasure to Ruth . 
She , in the mean time , was getting up to go home . 
While Jemima was lighting the bed-candle at the lamp , Ruth came round to bid good night . 
Mr. Bradshaw could not allow her to remain till the morrow , uncertain whether he was satisfied or not . 
Mr. Farquhar offered to accompany Ruth home ; but the streets that intervened between Mr. Bradshaw 's and the Chapel-house were so quiet that he desisted , when he learnt from Ruth 's manner how much she disliked his proposal . 
She went upstairs with Ruth to help her to put on her things . 
said Ruth , `` I am so glad to see you looking better to-night ! 
`` Oh , Ruth ! 
I want you to come and put me to-rights , '' she continued , half smiling . 
said Ruth . 
asked Ruth , tenderly . 
`` Take your own time , love , '' said Ruth ; `` only remember , as far as I can , how glad I am to help you . '' 
`` Do n't say so , '' replied Ruth , earnestly , almost as if she were afraid . 
With the fragrance of Ruth 's sweetness lingering about her , Jemima was her best self during the next half hour . 
Mr. Bradshaw was more and more pleased , and raised the price of the silk , which he was going to give Ruth , sixpence a yard during the time . 
The next morning , as Jemima and her mother sat at their work , it came into the head of the former to remember her father 's very marked way of thanking Ruth the evening before . 
`` What a favourite Mrs. Denbigh is with papa , '' said she . 
She did not like this close observation and constant comment upon her manners ; and what had Ruth to do with it ? 
`` I am glad you were pleased , '' said she , very coldly . 
Then , after a pause , she added , `` But you have not told me what Mrs. Denbigh had to do with my good behaviour . '' 
Jemima remembered , with smouldered anger , Ruth 's pleading way of wiling her from her sullenness the night before . 
but in this case it was peculiarly revolting ; so much so , that she could hardly bear to believe that the seemingly-transparent Ruth had lent herself to it . 
After this conversation , Jemima repulsed all Ruth 's timid efforts to ascertain the cause of her disturbance , and to help her if she could . 
Ruth 's tender , sympathising manner , as she saw Jemima daily looking more wretched , was distasteful to the latter in the highest degree . 
She could not say that Mrs. Denbigh 's conduct was positively wrong -- it might even be quite right ; but it was inexpressibly repugnant to her to think of her father consulting with a stranger -LRB- a week ago she almost considered Ruth as a sister -RRB- how to manage his daughter , so as to obtain the end he wished for ; yes , even if that end was for her own good . 
She was thankful and glad to see a brown-paper parcel lying on the hall-table , with a note in Ruth 's handwriting , addressed to her father . 
She knew what it was , the grey silk dress . 
That she was sure Ruth would never accept . 
The consequences of all this `` admirable management '' of Mr. Bradshaw 's would have been very unfortunate to Mr. Farquhar -LRB- who was innocent of all connivance in any of the plots -- indeed , would have been as much annoyed at them as Jemima , had he been aware of them -RRB- , but that the impression made upon him by Ruth on the evening I have so lately described , was deepened by the contrast which her behaviour made to Miss Bradshaw 's on one or two more recent occasions . 
And now her quick-sighted eyes saw he was gone for ever -- past recal ; for did not her jealous , sore heart feel , even before he himself was conscious of the fact , that he was drawn towards sweet , lovely , composed , and dignified Ruth -- one who always thought before she spoke -LRB- as Mr. Farquhar used to bid Jemima do -RRB- -- who never was tempted by sudden impulse , but walked the world calm and self-governed . 
What now availed Jemima 's reproaches , as she remembered the days when he had watched her with earnest , attentive eyes , as he now watched Ruth ; and the times since , when , led astray by her morbid fancy , she had turned away from all his advances ! 
Her sisters came in bright and glowing . 
-LRB- she had felt it even chilly . -RRB- 
said she . 
Ruth was beautiful , gentle , good , and conscientious . 
Every touch of fancy which could heighten her idea of their enjoyment , and of Mr. Farquhar 's attention to the blushing , conscious Ruth -- every such touch which would add a pang to her self-reproach and keen jealousy , was added by her imagination . 
She got up and walked about , to try and stop her over-busy fancy by bodily exercise . 
But she had eaten little all day , and was weak and faint in the intense heat of the sunny garden . 
Yet her sisters found her there when they returned , walking quickly up and down , as if to warm herself on some winter 's day . 
Poor Ruth did not need his implied reproaches . 
When she saw her gentle Elizabeth lying feeble and languid , her heart blamed her for thoughtlessness , so severely as to make her take all Mr. Bradshaw 's words and hints as too light censure for the careless way in which , to please her own child , she had allowed her two pupils to fatigue themselves with such long walks . 
Whether it was that Ruth , who was not an inmate of the house , brought with her a fresher air , more change thought to the invalid , I do not know , but Elizabeth always gave her a peculiarly tender greeting ; and if she had sunk down into languid fatigue , in spite of all Jemima 's endeavours to interest her , she roused up into animation when Ruth came in with a flower , a book , or a brown and ruddy pear , sending out the warm fragrance it retained from the sunny garden-wall at Chapel-house . 
The jealous dislike which Jemima was allowing to grow up in her heart against Ruth was , as she thought , never shown in word or deed . 
She was cold in manner , because she could not be hypocritical ; but her words were polite and kind in purport ; and she took pains to make her actions the same as formerly . 
Ruth felt the change acutely . 
She suffered from it some time before she ventured to ask what had occasioned it . 
But , one day , she took Miss Bradshaw by surprise , when they were alone together for a few minutes , by asking her if she had vexed her in any way , she was so changed ? 
But the tone was so constrained and cold , that Ruth 's heart sank within her . 
She knew now , as well as words could have told her , that not only had the old feeling of love passed away from Jemima , but that it had gone unregretted , and no attempt had been made to recal it . 
Love was very precious to Ruth now , as of old time . 
It was one of the faults of her nature to be ready to make any sacrifices for those who loved her , and to value affection almost above its price . 
She had yet to learn the lesson , that it is more blessed to love than to be beloved ; and lonely as the impressible years of her youth had been -- without parents , without brother or sister -- it was , perhaps , no wonder that she clung tenaciously to every symptom of regard , and could not relinquish the love of any one without a pang . 
But yet she could not bear to leave the neighbourhood of Mr. Farquhar ; especially as , if she went to Abermouth , Ruth would in all probability be left to take her holiday at home . 
When Mr. Bradshaw decided that she was to go , Ruth tried to feel glad that he gave her the means of repairing her fault towards Elizabeth ; and she resolved to watch over the two girls most faithfully and carefully , and to do all in her power to restore the invalid to health . 
But a tremor came over her whenever she thought of leaving Leonard ; she had never quitted him for a day , and it seemed to her as if her brooding , constant care , was his natural and necessary shelter from all evils -- from very death itself . 
She would not go to sleep at nights , in order to enjoy the blessed consciousness of having him near her ; when she was away from him teaching her pupils , she kept trying to remember his face , and print it deep on her heart , against the time when days and days would elapse without her seeing that little darling countenance . 
Miss Benson would wonder to her brother that Mr. Bradshaw did not propose that Leonard should accompany his mother ; he only begged her not to put such an idea into Ruth 's head , as he was sure Mr. Bradshaw had no thoughts of doing any such thing , yet to Ruth it might be a hope , and then a disppointment . 
Ruth cried until she could cry no longer , and felt very much ashamed of herself as she saw the grave and wondering looks of her pupils , whose only feeling on leaving home was delight at the idea of Abermouth , and into whose minds the possibility of death to any of their beloved ones never entered . 
Ruth dried her eyes , and spoke cheerfully as soon as she caught the perplexed expression of their faces ; and by the time they arrived at Abermouth , she was as much delighted with all the new scenery as they were , and found it hard work to resist their entreaties to go rambling out on the sea-shore at once ; but Elizabeth had undergone more fatigue that day , than she had had before for many weeks , and Ruth was determined to be prudent . 
In spite of her absence from her child , which made one great and abiding sorrow , Ruth enjoyed her sea-side visit exceedingly . 
Ruth had gone to `` the shop '' in the little village , about half a mile distant , where all letters were left till fetched . 
She only expected one , but that one was to tell her of Leonard . 
She , however , received two ; the unexpected one was from Mr. Bradshaw , and the news it contained was , if possible , a greater surprise than the letter itself . 
Mr. Bradshaw informed her , that he planned arriving by dinner-time the following Saturday , at Eagle 's Crag ; and more , that he intended bringing Mr. Donne and one or two other gentlemen with him , to spend the Sunday there ! 
The dinner-hour was fixed to be at six ; but , of course , Ruth and the girls would have dined long before . 
Ruth was to engage a waiter from the inn , and this it was that detained her so long . 
While she sat in the little parlour , awaiting the coming of the landlady , she could not help wondering why Mr. Bradshaw was bringing this strange gentleman to spend two days at Abermouth , and thus giving himself so much trouble and fuss of preparation . 
There were so many small reasons that went to make up the large one which had convinced Mr. Bradshaw of the desirableness of this step , that it was not likely that Ruth should guess at one half of them . 
All these mingled motives caused the determination which made Ruth sit in the little inn-parlour at Abermouth during the wild storm 's passage . 
She wondered if she had fulfilled all Mr. Bradshaw 's directions . 
She looked at the letter . 
And now home with her news , through the wet lane , where the little pools by the roadside reflected the deep blue sky and the round white clouds with even deeper blue and clearer white ; and the rain-drops hung so thick on the trees , that even a little bird 's flight was enough to shake them down in a bright shower as of rain . 
When she told the news , Mary exclaimed , `` Oh , how charming ! 
said Ruth , `` in the dressing-room next to my room . 
to-morrow may be better , '' said Ruth , cheerily . 
`` Yes , '' answered Ruth . 
And in all this Ruth was as great a child as any . 
Only she longed for Leonard with a mother 's longing , as indeed she did every day , and all hours of the day . 
It was very little , but Ruth feared a shower for her delicate Elizabeth , and besides , the September evening was fast closing in the dark and sunless day . 
But that is not Mr. Farquhar , I am sure , '' said Ruth . 
The girls looked at each other , as they always did , when Ruth mentioned Mr. Farquhar 's name ; but she was perfectly unconscious both of the look and of the conjectures which gave rise to it . 
He kissed them , and shook hands with Ruth ; told his companions that these were the little girls who were tempting him to this extravagance of purchasing Eagle 's Crag ; and then , rather doubtfully , and because he saw that Mr. Donne expected it , he introduced `` My daughters ' governess , Mrs. Denbigh . '' 
Mr. Bradshaw held a hand of each of his daughters , and Ruth walked alongside , the two strange gentlemen being on the outskirts of the party . 
The gentleman nearest to Ruth spoke to her . 
The sands heaved and trembled beneath Ruth . 
The figures near her vanished into strange nothingness ; the sounds of their voices were as distant sounds in a dream , while the echo of one voice thrilled through and through . 
She could have caught at his arm for support , in the awful dizziness which wrapped her up , body and soul . 
if name , and face , and figure , were all changed , that voice was the same which had touched her girlish heart , which had spoken most tender words of love , which had won , and wrecked her , and which she had last heard in the low mutterings of fever . 
She dared not look round to see the figure of him who spoke , dark as it was . 
She knew he was there -- she heard him speak in the manner in which he used to address strangers years ago ; perhaps she answered him , perhaps she did not -- God knew . 
It seemed as if weights were tied to her feet -- as if the steadfast rocks receded -- as if time stood still ; -- it was so long , so terrible , that path across the reeling sand . 
They appealed to Ruth , but Ruth did not answer , and they were too impatient to convince each other to repeat the question . 
The first little ascent from the sands to the field surmounted , Ruth sat down suddenly , and covered her face with her hands . 
They were still more startled when Ruth wailed aloud some inarticulate words . 
asked Elizabeth , gently , kneeling down on the grass by Ruth . 
She sat facing the west . 
The low watery twilight was on her face as she took her hands away . 
You should not be with me , '' said she , shaking her head slowly . 
Ruth looked at her , as if she did not understand the meaning of her words . 
No more she did at first . 
But by-and-by the dulled brain began to think most vividly and rapidly , and she spoke in a sharp way which deceived the girls into a belief that nothing had been the matter . 
Feel how it flutters and beats , '' said she , taking Elizabeth 's hand , and holding it to her side . 
It was a contrast in more than colour to the lonely dusky field , which even the little girls perceived ; and the noise , the warmth , the very bustle of the servants , were a positive relief to Ruth , and for the time lifted off the heavy press of pent-up passion . 
Then , she must have given way , and cried out . 
As it was , she went up the old awkward back stairs , and into the room they were to sit in . 
But she was struck by the strange paleness of Ruth 's face , now that the light fell upon it . 
Another time Ruth would have dreaded Mr. Bradshaw 's displeasure ; for it was an understood thing that no one was to be ill or tired in his household without leave asked , and cause given and assigned . 
But she never thought of that now . 
Her great desire was to hold quiet till she was alone . 
Quietness it was not -- it was rigidity ; but she succeeded in being rigid in look and movement , and went through her duties to Elizabeth -LRB- who preferred remaining with her up-stairs -RRB- with wooden precision . 
But her heart felt at times like ice , at times like burning fire ; always a heavy , heavy weight within her . 
Still Ruth dared not think . 
Mary would come up-stairs soon ; and with a strange , sick , shrinking yearning , Ruth awaited her -- and the crumbs of intelligence she might drop out about him . 
Ruth 's sense of hearing was quickened to miserable intensity as she stood before the chimney-piece , grasping it tight with both hands -- gazing into the dying fire , but seeing -- not the dead grey embers , or the little sparks of vivid light that ran hither and thither among the wood-ashes -- but an old farm-house , and climbing winding road , and a little golden breezy common , with a rural inn on the hill-top , far , far away . 
Indifferent people would only have guessed that Mr. Donne was speaking by the quietness in which the others listened ; but Ruth heard the voice and many of the words , though they conveyed no idea to her mind . 
She was too much stunned even to feel curious to know to what they related . 
That was her one fact . 
Had Ruth seen him ? 
She could not , it was so dark on those stupid sands . 
Well , never mind , she would see him to-morrow . 
She must be well to-morrow . 
Papa seemed a good deal put out that neither she nor Elizabeth were in the drawing-room to-night ; and his last words were , `` Tell Mrs. Denbigh I hope '' -LRB- and papa 's `` hopes '' always meant `` expect '' -RRB- `` she will be able to make breakfast at nine o'clock ; '' and then she would see Mr. Donne . 
That was all Ruth heard about him . 
She went with Mary into her bedroom , helped her to undress , and put the candle out . 
At length she was alone in her own room ! 
She fastened her door , and threw open the window , cold and threatening as was the night . 
She tore off her gown ; she put her hair back from her heated face . 
It seemed now as if she could not think -- as if thought and emotion had been repressed so sternly that they would not come to relieve her stupified brain . 
Till all at once , like a flash of lightning , her life , past and present , was revealed to her to its minutest detail . 
And when she saw her very present `` Now , '' the strange confusion of agony was too great to be borne , and she cried aloud . 
Then she was quite dead , and listened as to the sound of galloping armies . 
It was not him , it was his mother , '' said she , almost fiercely , as if answering herself . 
but he might have found me out before this , '' she continued , sadly . 
He did not care for me at all , '' she went on wildly and sharply . 
asked she , tenderly . 
But that very circumstance , full of such tender meaning in many cases , threw a new light into her mind . 
It changed her from the woman into the mother -- the stern guardian of her child . 
She was still for a time , thinking . 
Then she began again , but in a low , deep voice , `` He left me . 
She raised her voice while uttering this determination , and then , feeling her own weakness , she moaned out , `` Alas ! 
And then she started up , for all this time she had been rocking herself backwards and forwards as she sat on the ground , and began to pace the room with hurried steps . 
I who have striven -LRB- or made a mock of trying -RRB- to learn God 's holy will , in order to bring up Leonard into the full strength of a Christian -- I who have taught his sweet innocent lips to pray ` Lead us not into temptation , but deliver us from evil ; ' and yet , somehow , I 've been longing to give him to his father , who is -- who is -- '' she almost choked , till at last she cried sharp out , `` Oh , my God ! 
She threw her body half out of the window into the cold night air . 
The rain beat down on her . 
It did her good . 
A still , calm night would not have soothed her as this did . 
The wild tattered clouds , hurrying past the moon , gave her a foolish kind of pleasure that almost made her smile a vacant smile . 
The blast-driven rain came on her again , and drenched her hair through and through . 
The words `` stormy wind fulfilling his word '' came into her mind . 
She sat down on the floor . 
This time her hands were clasped round her knees . 
And then her thoughts went back to the various times of old , when , affrighted by the weather -- sounds so mysterious in the night -- he had crept into her bed and clung to her , and she had soothed him , and sweetly awed him into stillness and childlike faith , by telling him of the goodness and power of God . 
Of a sudden , she crept to a chair , and there knelt as in the very presence of God , hiding her face , at first not speaking a word -LRB- for did He not know her heart -RRB- , but by-and-by moaning out , amid her sobs and tears -LRB- and now for the first time she wept -RRB- , `` Oh , my God , help me , for I am very weak . 
She could not think , or , indeed , remember anything but that she was weak , and God was strong , and `` a very present help in time of trouble ; '' and the wind rose yet higher , and the house shook and vibrated as , in measured time , the great and terrible gusts came from the four quarters of the heavens and blew around it , dying away in the distance with loud and unearthly wails , which were not utterly still before the sound of the coming blast was heard like the trumpets of the vanguard of the Prince of Air . 
Ruth calmed her passionate breathing by one hasty draught of water , and opened the door to the timid girl . 
Ruth was too much shaken to be able to speak all at once ; but she took Elizabeth in her arms to reassure her . 
said Ruth . 
Ruth shut the window , and went to bed . 
To soothe her , Ruth made a great effort ; and spoke of Leonard and his fears , and , in a low hesitating voice , she spoke of God 's tender mercy , but very humbly , for she feared lest Elizabeth should think her better and holier than she was . 
The little girl was soon asleep , her fears forgotten ; and Ruth , worn out by passionate emotion , and obliged to be still for fear of awaking her bedfellow , went off into a short slumber , through the depths of which the echoes of her waking sobs quivered up . 
When she awoke , the grey light of autumnal dawn was in the room . 
Elizabeth slept on ; but Ruth heard the servants about , and the early farmyard sounds . 
After she had recovered from the shock of consciousness and recollection , she collected her thoughts with a stern calmness . 
He was here . 
In a few hours she must meet him . 
How it would all turn out she could not say , or even guess . 
But of one thing she was clear , and to one thing she would hold fast ; that was , that , come what might , she would obey God 's law , and , be the end of all what it might , she would say `` Thy will be done ! '' 
She only asked for strength enough to do this when the time came . 
How the time would come -- what speech or action would be requisite on her part , she did not know -- she did not even try to conjecture , She left that in His hands . 
She was icy cold , but very calm when the breakfast-bell rang . 
She went down immediately ; because she felt that there was less chance of a recognition , if she were already at her place behind the tea-urn , and busied with the cups , than if she came in after all were settled . 
Her heart seemed to stand still , but she felt almost a strange exultant sense of power over herself . 
She felt , rather than saw , that he was not there . 
Mr. Bradshaw and Mr. Hickson were , and so busy talking election-politics that they did not interrupt their conversation even when they bowed to her . 
Her pupils sat one on each side of her . 
Ruth felt as if that moment was like death . 
She had a kind of desire to make some sharp sound , to relieve a choking sensation , but it was over in an instant , and she sat on very composed and silent -- to all outward appearance , the very model of a governess who knew her place . 
And by-and-by she felt strangely at ease in her sense of power . 
She could even listen to what was being said . 
She had never dared as yet to look at Mr. Donne , though her heart burnt to see him once again . 
Ruth was compelled to sit there , and it was good for her that she did . 
That half hour seemed to separate the present Mr. Donne very effectively , from her imagination of what Mr. Bellingham had been . 
She was no analyser ; she hardly even had learnt to notice character ; but she felt there was some strange difference between the people she had lived with lately and the man who now leant back in his chair , listening in a careless manner to the conversation , but never joining in , or expressing any interest in it , unless it somewhere , or somehow , touched him himself . 
Suddenly Ruth felt that his attention was caught by her . 
Until now , seeing his short-sightedness , she had believed herself safe ; now her face flushed with a painful , miserable blush . 
But , in an instant , she was strong and quiet . 
She looked up straight at his face ; and , as if this action took him aback , he dropped his glass , and began eating away with great diligence . 
She had seen him . 
He was changed , she knew not how . 
But he was very handsome still ; and her quick eye had recognised , with a sort of strange pride , that the eyes and mouth were like Leonard 's . 
Although perplexed by the straightforward brave look she had sent right at him , he was not entirely baffled . 
He thought this Mrs. Denbigh was certainly like poor Ruth ; but this woman was far handsomer . 
Poor Ruth ! 
Poor Ruth ! 
There were little dimples came out about the mouth as she spoke , just like those he used to admire so much in Ruth , and which he had never seen in any one else -- the sunshine without the positive movement of a smile . 
He absolutely felt jealous when Mr. Hickson sprang up to open the door , as Ruth and her pupils left the room . 
Mr. Donne had noticed that Mr. Hickson had tried to be gallant to Miss Bradshaw ; let him , if he liked ; but let him beware how he behaved to this fair creature , Ruth or no Ruth . 
It certainly was Ruth ; only how the devil had she played her cards so well as to be the governes -- the respected governess , in such a family as Mr. Bradshaw 's ? 
`` How singular it is , '' said he , `` that the name of Ruth is so seldom chosen by those good people who go to the Bible before they christen their children . 
`` Yes , papa , '' replied Mary , eagerly ; `` and I know two other Ruths ; there 's Ruth Brown here , and Ruth Macartney at Eccleston . '' 
`` And I have an aunt called Ruth , Mr. Donne ! 
Ruth was glad when she got into the open air , and away from the house . 
She felt weak and trembling in body , but strong in power over herself . 
But presently , to Ruth 's dismay , she heard a step behind , coming at a rapid pace , a peculiar clank of rather high-heeled boots , which gave a springy sound to the walk , that she had known well long ago . 
There he was by her side ; and there was still a quarter of a mile intervening between her and the church ; but even yet she trusted that he had not recognised her . 
He knew , if she were Ruth , she could not answer any indifferent words of his ; and her silence made him more certain of her identity with the lady by his side . 
Ruth writhed in body and spirit , but struggled on . 
The church-door would be gained at last ; and in that holy place she would find peace . 
He repeated in a louder tone , so as to compel an answer in order to conceal her agitation from the girls . 
He used `` never , '' instead of `` ever , '' and laid the emphasis on that word , in order to mark his meaning to Ruth , and Ruth only . 
But he drove her to bay . 
`` I have been in Wales , sir , '' she replied , in a calm , grave tone . 
Ruth 's heart sank as she saw him there ; just oppsite to her ; coming between her and the clergyman who was to read out the word of God . 
It was merciless -- it was cruel to haunt her there . 
She durst not lift her eyes to the bright eastern light -- she could not see how peacefully the marble images of the dead lay on their tombs , for he was between her and all Light and Peace . 
She knew that his look was on her ; that he never turned his glance away . 
She could not join in the prayer for the remission of sins while he was there , for his very presence seemed as a sign that their stain would never be washed out of her life . 
But , although goaded and chafed by her thoughts and recollections , she kept very still . 
No sign of emotion , no flush of colour was on her face , as he looked at her . 
Elizabeth could not find her place , and then Ruth breathed once , long and deeply , as she moved up the pew , and out of the straight burning glance of those eyes of evil meaning . 
When they sat down for the reading of the first lesson , Ruth turned the corner of the seat so as no longer to be opposite to him . 
She could not listen . 
The words seemed to be uttered in some world far away , from which she was exiled and cast out ; their sound , and yet more their meaning , was dim and distant . 
But in this extreme tension of mind to hold in her bewildered agony , it so happened that one of her senses was preternaturally acute . 
While all the church and the people swam in misty haze , one point in a dark corner grew clearer and clearer till she saw -LRB- what , at another time she could not have discerned at all -RRB- a face -- a gargoyle I think they call it -- at the end of the arch next to the narrowing of the nave into the chancel , and in the shadow of that contraction . 
If mortal gaze had never sought it 's meaning before , in the deep shadow where it had been placed long centuries ago , yet Ruth 's did now . 
Human art was ended -- human life done -- human suffering over ; but this remained ; it stilled Ruth 's beating heart to look on it . 
She grew still enough to hear words , which have come to many in their time of need , and awed them in the presence of the extremest suffering that the hushed world has ever heard of . 
And when they prayed again , Ruth 's tongue was unloosed , and she also could pray , in His name , who underwent the agony in the garden . 
Standing for a moment , impeded by the people who were thus collected under the porch , Ruth heard a voice close to her say , very low but very distinctly , `` I have much to say to you -- much to explain . 
Ruth did not reply . 
She would not acknowledge that she heard ; but she trembled nevertheless , for the well-remembered voice was low and soft , and had yet its power to thrill . 
She earnestly desired to know why and how he had left her . 
It appeared to her , as if that knowledge could alone give her a relief from the restless wondering that distracted her mind , and that one explanation could do no harm . 
Ruth and the girls had each an umbrella . 
She turned to Mary , and said , `` Mary , give your umbrella to Mr. Donne , and come under mine . '' 
Her way of speaking was short and decided ; she was compressing her meaning into as few words as possible . 
I have a right to be heard , Ruth ! 
But he himself had done much to destroy the illusion which had hung about his memory for years , whenever Ruth had allowed herself to think of it . 
Besides which , during the time of her residence in the Benson family , her feeling of what people ought to be had been unconsciously raised and refined ; and Mr. Donne , even while she had to struggle against the force of past recollections , repelled her so much by what he was at present , that every speech of his , every minute they were together , served to make her path more and more easy to follow . 
When he spoke , without her seeing him , she could not help remembering former days . 
She did not answer this last speech any more than the first . 
She saw clearly , that , putting aside all thought as to the character of their former relationship , it had been dissolved by his will -- his act and deed ; and that , therefore , the power to refuse any further intercourse whatsoever remained with her . 
When Mr. Donne saw that Ruth would not answer him , he became only the more determined that she should hear what he had to say . 
The umbrella protected Ruth from more than the rain on that walk homewards , for under its shelter she could not be spoken to unheard . 
She had not rightly understood at what time she and the girls were to dine . 
From the gathering at meal-times she must not shrink . 
She must show no sign of weakness . 
the relief , after that walk , to sit in her own room , locked up , so that neither Mary or Elizabeth could come by surprise , and to let her weary frame -LRB- weary with being so long braced up to rigidity and stiff quiet -RRB- fall into a chair anyhow -- all helpless , nerveless , motionless , as if the very bones had melted out of her ! 
Mr. Donne kept wondering if he could have met Ruth -- if , in fact , she had gone out with her pupils , now that the afternoon had cleared up . 
Lunch was lingering in the dining-room , left there for the truant Mr. Hickson ; but of the children or Ruth there was no sign . 
Mr. Donne languidly assented to this proposal of going out , and then he became restless until Mr. Hickson had eaten a hasty lunch , for he hoped to meet Ruth on the way from church , to be near her , and watch her , though he might not be able to speak to her . 
To have the slow hours roll away -- to know he must leave the next day -- and yet , so close to her , not to be seeing her -- was more than he could bear . 
No Ruth was there . 
She and her pupils had returned by the field-way , as Mr. Bradshaw informed his guests at dinner-time . 
His heart gave a fierce bound when he saw her in the drawing-room with the little girls . 
She was reading to them -- with how sick and trembling a heart , no words can tell . 
But she could master and keep down outward signs of her emotion . 
An hour more to-night -LRB- part of which was to be spent in family prayer , and all in the safety of company -RRB- , another hour in the morning -LRB- when all would be engaged in the bustle of departure -RRB- -- if , during this short space of time , she could not avoid speaking to him , she could at least keep him at such a distance as to make him feel that henceforward her world and his belonged to separate systems , wide as the heavens apart . 
By degrees she felt that he was drawing near to where she stood . 
The little girls could not hear ; but Ruth , hemmed in so that no escape was possible , did hear . 
She took sudden courage , and said , in a clear voice , `` Will you read the whole passage aloud ? 
Ruth sat with her head drooping , more from exhaustion after a season of effort than because she shunned Mr. Donne 's looks . 
He had so lost his power over her -- his power , which had stirred her so deeply the night before -- that , except as one knowing her error and her shame , and making a cruel use of such knowledge , she had quite separated him from the idol of her youth . 
And yet , for the sake of that first and only love , she would gladly have known what explanation he could offer to account for leaving her . 
It would have been something gained to her own self-respect , if she had learnt that he was not then , as she felt him to be now , cold and egotistical , caring for no one and nothing but what related to himself . 
Mary and Elizabeth went to bed immediately after prayers , and Ruth accompanied them . 
Just as the carriage came round , Mr. Bradshaw turned to Ruth : `` Any message for Leonard beyond love , which is a matter of course ? '' 
Ruth gasped -- for she saw Mr. Donne catch at the name ; she did not guess the sudden sharp jealousy called out by the idea that Leonard was a grown-up man . 
Under some pretence or other , he drew near to Ruth ; and in that low voice , which she had learnt to loathe , he said , `` Our child ! '' 
By the white misery that turned her face to stone -- by the wild terror in her imploring eyes -- by the gasping breath , which came out as the carriage drove away -- he knew that he had seized the spell to make her listen at last . 
These words rang like a tolling bell through Ruth 's head . 
It seemed to her that her doom was certain . 
Leonard would be taken from her ! 
She had a firm conviction -- not the less firm because she knew not on what it was based -- that a child , whether legitimate or not , belonged of legal right to the father . 
She had been too strongly taxed to have much power left her to reason coolly and dispassionately , just then , even if she had been with any one who could furnish her with information from which to draw correct conclusions . 
The one thought haunted her night and day . 
In her dreams she saw Leonard borne away into some dim land , to which she could not follow . 
Sometimes he sat in a swiftly-moving carriage , at his father 's side , and smiled on her as he passed by , as if going to promised pleasure . 
At another time , he was struggling to return to her ; stretching out his little arms , and crying to her for the help she could not give . 
How she got through the days , she did not know ; her body moved about and habitually acted , but her spirit was with her child . 
She thought often of writing and warning Mr. Benson of Leonard 's danger : but then she shrank from recurring to circumstances , all mention of which had ceased years ago ; the very recollection of which seemed buried deep for ever . 
Besides , she feared occasioning discord or commotion in the quiet circle in which she lived . 
Mr. Benson 's deep anger against her betrayer had been shown too clearly in the old time to allow her to think that he would keep it down without expression now . 
He would cease to do anything to forward his election ; he would oppose him as much as he could ; and Mr. Bradshaw would be angry , and a storm would arise , from the bare thought of which Ruth shrank with the cowardliness of a person thoroughly worn out with late contest . 
She was bodily wearied with her spiritual buffeting . 
One morning , three or four days after their departure , she received a letter from Miss Benson . 
`` Monday we did so-and-so ; Tuesday , so-and-so , & c. '' Ruth glanced rapidly down the page . 
Although a stranger might have considered this letter wearisome from the multiplicity of the details , Ruth craved greedily after more . 
After wondering and wondering over these points , Ruth composed herself by the hope that in a day or two she should hear again ; and to secure this end , she answered the letters by return of post . 
On Friday she had another letter , in a strange hand . 
Ruth did not attempt to answer this letter till the last five minutes before the post went out . 
She could not decide until forced to it . 
Either way she dreaded . 
She was very nearly leaving the letter altogether unanswered . 
But suddenly she resolved she would know all , the best , the worst . 
No cowardly dread of herself , or of others , should make her neglect aught that came to her in her child 's name . 
She took up a pen and wrote : `` The sands below the rocks , where we met you the other night . 
When they came to kiss her before leaving her , according to their fond wont , they were struck by the coldness of her face and lips . 
I am well ; '' and tears sprang into her eyes as she looked at their anxious little faces . 
`` And then it will be over , '' she murmured -- `` over . '' 
It never came into her head to watch the girls , as they disappeared down the lane on their way to church . 
She knew them too well to distrust their doing what they were told . 
She sat still , her head bowed on her arms for a few minutes , and then rose up and went to put on her walking things . 
Some thoughts impelled her to sudden haste . 
She crossed the field by the side of the house , ran down the steep and rocky path , and was carried by the impetus of her descent far out on the level sands -- but not far enough for her intent . 
Without looking to the right hand or to the left , where comers might be seen , she went forwards to the black posts , which , rising above the heaving waters , marked where the fishermen 's nets were laid . 
She went straight towards this place , and hardly stinted her pace even where the wet sands were glittering with the receding waves . 
Once there , she turned round , and in a darting glance , saw that as yet no one was near . 
She was perhaps half a mile or more from the grey silvery rocks , which sloped away into brown moorland , interspersed with a field here and there of golden , waving corn . 
A little on one side from where she stood , she saw the white cottages and houses which formed the village of Abermouth , scattered up and down , and , on a windy hill , about a mile inland , she saw the little grey church , where even now many were worshipping in peace . 
she sighed out , as this object caught her eye . 
And now , close under the heathery fields , where they fell softly down and touched the sands , she saw a figure moving in the direction of the great shadow made by the rocks -- going towards the very point where the path from Eagle 's Crag came down to the shore . 
said she to herself . 
And she turned round and looked seaward . 
Very near they were when Ruth , unwilling to show the fear that rioted in her heart , turned round , and faced Mr. Donne . 
my own Ruth , '' said he . 
Ruth 's arms hung down motionless at her sides . 
Ruth , have you no word for me ? '' 
`` I have nothing to say , '' said Ruth . 
`` I do not want explanations , '' said Ruth , in a trembling tone . 
Suddenly Ruth 's beautiful eyes were raised to him , full of lucid splendour , but grave and serious in their expression ; and her cheeks , heretofore so faintly tinged with the tenderest blush , flashed into a ruddy glow . 
`` And yet , '' replied he , secretly exulting in her admission , and not perceiving the inner strength of which she must have been conscious before she would have dared to make it -- `` and yet , Ruth , we are not to recur to the past ! 
He tried once more to take her hand , but she quietly stepped back . 
`` I came to hear what you had to say about my child , '' said she , beginning to feel very weary . 
`` Our child , Ruth . '' 
She drew herself up , and her face went very pale . 
`` What have you to say about him ? '' 
asked she , coldly . 
`` Much , '' exclaimed he -- `` much that may affect his whole life . 
Ruth , you will drive me mad . 
She did not reply , but he caught a deep , involuntary sigh . 
I could see that , Ruth . 
There was no sign of maternal ambition on the motionless face , though there might be some little spring in her heart , as it beat quick and strong at the idea of the proposal she imagined he was going to make of taking her boy away to give him the careful education she had often craved for him . 
She should refuse it , as she would everything else which seemed to imply that she acknowledged a claim over Leonard ; but yet sometimes , for her boy 's sake , she had longed for a larger opening -- a more extended sphere . 
`` Ruth ! 
Ah , Ruth ! 
The tears dropped , large and round , from Ruth 's eyes -- she could not help it -- how could she ? 
`` We were happy then , '' continued he , gaining confidence from the sight of her melted mood , and recurring once more to the admission which he considered so much in his favour . 
Thus he went on , quickly , anxious to lay before her all he had to offer , before she should fully understand his meaning . 
`` If you would consent , Leonard should be always with you -- educated where and how you liked -- money to any amount you might choose to name should be secured to you and him -- if only , Ruth -- if only those happy days might return . '' 
Ruth spoke . 
Mr. Donne looked at her , as she uttered these words , to see if she was wandering in her mind , they seemed to him so utterly strange and incoherent . 
`` My dear Ruth , compose yourself ! 
said Ruth . 
said Ruth , now that the idea of what he proposed had entered her mind . 
She was so strongly agitated that she put her hands over her face , and sobbed without restraint . 
Then , taking them away , she looked at him with a glowing face , and beautiful , honest , wet eyes , and tried to speak calmly , as she asked if she needed to stay longer -LRB- she would have gone away at once but that she thought of Leonard , and wished to hear all that his father might have to say -RRB- . 
He was so struck anew by her beauty , and understood her so little , that he believed that she only required a little more urging to consent to what he wished ; for in all she had said there was no trace of the anger and resentment for his desertion of her , which he had expected would be a prominent feature -- the greatest obstacle he had to encounter . 
The deep sense of penitence she expressed , he mistook for earthly shame ; which he imagined he could soon soothe away . 
I have been sinful , but it is not you who should -- '' She could not speak , she was so choking with passionate sorrow . 
He wanted to calm her , as he saw her shaken with repressed sobs . 
He put his hand on her arm . 
She shook it off impatiently , and moved away in an instant . 
`` Ruth ! '' 
said he , nettled by her action of repugnance , `` I begin to think you never loved me . '' 
Her eyes flamed on him as she spoke . 
Her red , round lip curled into beautiful contempt . 
`` I did not come here to be spoken to in this way , '' said she . 
She was silent . 
She longed to go away , but dreaded lest he should follow her , where she might be less subject to interruption than she was here -- near the fisherman 's nets , which the receding tide was leaving every moment barer and more bare , and the posts they were fastened to more blackly uprising above the waters . 
Mr. Donne put his hands on her arms as they hung down before her -- her hands tightly clasped together . 
The vehemence of his action took Ruth by surprise , and the painful tightness of the grasp almost made her exclaim . 
But she was quite still and mute . 
`` Ask me , '' said he , giving her a little shake . 
She did not speak . 
Her eyes , fixed on the distant shore , were slowly filling with tears . 
She saw some distant object that gave her hope . 
`` It is Stephen Bromley , '' said she . 
`` Mr. and Miss Benson know all -- they have not thrown me off , '' Ruth gasped out . 
`` I think once more ; '' she spoke solemnly . 
I should not mind his knowing my past sin , compared to the awful corruption it would be if he knew me living now , as you would have me , lost to all fear of God -- '' Her speech was broken by sobs . 
She lifted her eyes to heaven , and clasped and wreathed her hands together tight . 
Then she said : `` You have humbled me enough , sir . 
She turned away resolutely . 
Mr. Donne folded his arms , and set his teeth , and looked after her . 
He unfolded his arms , and began to follow her . 
He gained upon her , for her beautiful walk was now wavering and unsteady . 
The works which had kept her in motion were running down fast . 
`` Ruth ! '' 
said he , overtaking her . 
I am come to offer to marry you , Ruth ; come what may , I will have you . 
`` I can not , '' said she ; her voice was very faint and low . 
`` I can not , '' repeated she , more distinct and clear , though still very low . 
You have talked of it with no sound of moaning in your voice -- no shadow over the brightness of your face ; it has left no sense of sin on your conscience , while me it haunts and haunts ; and yet I might plead that I was an ignorant child -- only I will not plead anything , for God knows all -- But this is only one piece of our great difference -- '' `` You mean that I am no saint , '' he said , impatient at her speech . 
She stood very erect . 
said he , making her a low bow . 
They walked apart -- he back to the inn , to set off instantly , while the blood was hot in him , from the place where he had been so mortified -- she to steady herself along till she reached the little path , more like a rude staircase than anything else , by which she had to climb to the house . 
She did not turn round for some time after she was fairly lost to the sight of any one on the shore ; she clambered on , almost stunned by the rapid beating of her heart . 
Her eyes were hot and dry ; and at last became as if she were suddenly blind . 
Unable to go on , she tottered into the tangled underwood which grew among the stones , filling every niche and crevice , and little shelving space , with green and delicate tracery . 
She sank down behind a great overhanging rock , which hid her from any one coming up the path . 
As Ruth 's limbs fell , so they lay . 
She had no strength , no power of volition to move a finger . 
She could not think or remember . 
She was literally stunned . 
The first sharp sensation which roused her from her torpor was a quick desire to see him once more ; up she sprang , and climbed to an out-jutting dizzy point of rock , but a little above her sheltered nook , yet commanding a wide view over the bare naked sands ; -- far away below , touching the rippling water-line , was Stephen Bromley , busily gathering in his nets ; besides him there was no living creature visible . 
Ruth shaded her eyes , as if she thought they might have deceived her ; but no , there was no one there . 
She went slowly down to her old place , crying sadly as she went . 
She could not take in the general view and scope of their conversation -- the event was too near her for that ; but her heart felt sore at the echo of her last words , just and true as their severity was . 
Her struggle , her constant flowing tears , which fell from very weakness , made her experience a sensation of intense bodily fatigue ; and her soul had lost the power of throwing itself forward , or contemplating anything beyond the dreary present , when the expanse of grey , wild , bleak moors , stretching wide away below a sunless sky , seemed only an outward sign of the waste world within her heart , for which she could claim no sympathy ; -- for she could not even define what its woes were ; and if she could , no one would understand how the present time was haunted by the terrible ghost of the former love . 
she moaned aloud at last . 
She shut her eyes , until through the closed lids came a ruddy blaze of light . 
Ruth forgot herself in looking at the gorgeous sight . 
She sat up gazing , and , as she gazed , the tears dried on her cheeks ; and , somehow , all human care and sorrow were swallowed up in the unconscious sense of God 's infinity . 
The sunset calmed her more than any words , however wise and tender , could have done . 
It even seemed to give her strength and courage ; she did not know how or why , but so it was . 
She rose , and went slowly towards home . 
Her limbs were very stiff , and every now and then she had to choke down an unbidden sob . 
Her pupils had been long returned from church , and had busied themselves in preparing tea -- an occupation which had probably made them feel the time less long . 
If they had ever seen a sleep-walker , they might have likened Ruth to one for the next few days , so slow and measured did her movements seem -- so far away was her intelligence from all that was passing around her -- so hushed and strange were the tones of her voice ! 
There was so much pains taken to disguise anxiety , that it was very evident much anxiety was felt ; and the girls were almost alarmed by Ruth 's sudden change from taciturn languor to eager , vehement energy . 
Every plan that could facilitate packing and winding-up affairs at Abermouth , every errand and arrangement that could expedite their departure by one minute , was done by Ruth with stern promptitude . 
She spared herself in nothing . 
She made them rest , made them lie down , while she herself lifted weights and transacted business with feverish power , never resting , and trying never to have time to think . 
For in remembrance of the Past there was Remorse , -- how had she forgotten Leonard these last few days ! 
-- how had she repined and been dull of heart to her blessing ! 
And in anticipation of the Future there was one sharp point of red light in the darkness which pierced her brain with agony , and which she would not see or recognise -- and saw and recognised all the more for such mad determination -- which is not the true shield against the bitterness of the arrows of Death . 
By a firm resolution , Ruth kept from shaping the question , `` Is he alive ? '' 
as if by giving shape to her fears she made their realisation more imminent . 
She said merely , `` How is he ? '' 
but she said it with drawn , tight , bloodless lips , and in her eyes Mr. Benson read her anguish of anxiety . 
His was a character to bask in peace ; and lovely , quiet Ruth , with her low tones and soft replies , her delicate waving movements , appeared to him the very type of what a woman should be -- a calm , serene soul , fashioning the body to angelic grace . 
When Sally was not cooking for the little invalid , she was crying ; for she had had a dream about green rushes , not three months ago , which , by some queer process of oneiromancy , she interpreted to mean the death of a child ; and all Miss Benson 's endeavours were directed to making her keep silence to Ruth about this dream . 
Miss Benson 's great object was to keep her from having any confidential talks with Ruth ; as if any repetition of the dream could have deepened the conviction in Ruth 's mind that the child would die . 
It seemed to her that his death would only be the fitting punishment for the state of indifference towards him -- towards life and death -- towards all things earthly or divine , into which she had suffered herself to fall since her last interview with Mr. Donne . 
She did not understand that such exhaustion is but the natural consequence of violent agitation and severe tension of feeling . 
The only relief she experienced was in constantly serving Leonard ; she had almost an animal 's jealousy lest any one should come between her and her young . 
Mr. Benson saw this jealous suspicion , although he could hardly understand it ; but he calmed his sister 's wonder and officious kindness , so that the two patiently and quietly provided all that Ruth might want , but did not interfere with her right to nurse Leonard . 
But when he was recovering , Mr. Benson , with the slight tone of authority he knew how to assume when need was , bade Ruth lie down and take some rest , while his sister watched . 
Ruth did not answer , but obeyed in a dull , weary kind of surprise at being so commanded . 
She lay down by her child , gazing her fill at his calm slumber , and as she gazed , her large white eyelids were softly pressed down as with a gentle irresistible weight , and she fell asleep . 
She dreamed that she was once more on the lonely shore , striving to carry Leonard away from some pursuer -- some human pursuer -- she knew he was human , and she knew who he was , although she dared not say his name even to herself , he seemed so close and present , gaining on her flying footsteps , rushing after her as with the sound of the roaring tide . 
Her feet seemed heavy weights fixed to the ground ; they would not move . 
All at once , just near the shore , a great black whirlwind of waves clutched her back to her pursuer ; she threw Leonard on to land , which was safety ; but whether he reached it or no , or was swept back like her into a mysterious something too dreadful to be borne , she did not know , for the terror awakened her . 
At first the dream seemed yet a reality , and she thought that the pursuer was couched even there , in that very room , and the great boom of the sea was still in her ears . 
But as full consciousness returned , she saw herself safe in the dear old room -- the haven of rest -- the shelter from storms . 
On one of these the kettle hummed and buzzed , within two points of boiling whenever she or Leonard required tea . 
In her dream that home-like sound had been the roaring of the relentless sea , creeping swiftly on to seize its prey . 
Miss Benson bent over the side of the bed on which Ruth lay , to catch the low tones of her voice . 
`` I only said , '' replied Ruth , timidly , `` thank God ! 
Ruth mourned a little over the vanished babyhood , when she was all in all , and over the childhood , whose petals had fallen away ; it seemed as though two of her children were gone -- the one an infant , the other a bright thoughtless darling ; and she wished that they could have remained quick in her memory for ever , instead of being absorbed in loving pride for the present boy . 
Peace and thankfulness were once more the atmosphere of her mind ; nor was her unconsciousness disturbed by any suspicion of Mr. Farquhar 's increasing approbation and admiration , which he was diligently nursing up into love for her . 
She knew that he had sent -- she did not know how often he had brought -- fruit for the convalescent Leonard . 
She heard , on her return from her daily employment , that Mr. Farquhar had brought a little gentle pony on which Leonard , weak as he was , might ride . 
To confess the truth , her maternal pride was such that she thought that all kindness shown to such a boy as Leonard was but natural ; she believed him to be A child whom all that looked on , loved . 
To all such , when Leonard was better , Ruth went , and thanked them from her heart . 
She and the old cripple sat hand in hand over the scanty fire on the hearth of the latter , while she told in solemn , broken , homely words how her child sickened and died . 
Tears fell like rain down Ruth 's cheeks ; but those of the old woman were dry . 
But after this , Ruth `` clave unto her , '' and the two were henceforward a pair of friends . 
Mr. Farquhar was only included in the general gratitude which she felt towards all who had been kind to her body . 
The winter passed away in deep peace after the storms of the autumn , yet every now and then a feeling of insecurity made Ruth shake for an instant . 
Those wild autumnal storms had torn aside the quiet flowers and herbage that had gathered over the wreck of her early life , and shown her that all deeds , however hidden , and long passed by , have their eternal consequences . 
She turned sick and faint whenever Mr. Donne 's name was casually mentioned . 
No one saw it ; but she felt the miserable stop in her heart 's beating , and wished that she could prevent it by any exercise of self-command . 
She had never named his identity with Mr. Bellingham , nor had she spoken about the sea-side interview . 
Deep shame made her silent and reserved on all her life before Leonard 's birth ; from that time she rose again in her self-respect , and spoke as openly as a child -LRB- when need was -RRB- of all occurrences which had taken place since then ; except that she could not , and would not , tell of this mocking echo , this haunting phantom , this past , that would not rest in its grave . 
The very circumstance that it was stalking abroad in the world , and might re-appear at any moment , made her a coward : she trembled away from contemplating what the reality had been ; only she clung more faithfully than before to the thought of the great God , who was a rock in the dreary land , where no shadow was . 
With a strange perversity , the only intelligence she cared to hear , the only sights she cared to see , were the circumstances which gave confirmation to the idea that Mr. Farquhar was thinking of Ruth for a wife . 
She craved with stinging curiosity to hear something of their affairs every day ; partly because the torture which such intelligence gave was almost a relief from the deadness of her heart to all other interests . 
And so spring -LRB- gioventu dell ` anno -RRB- came back to her , bringing all the contrasts which spring alone can bring to add to the heaviness of the soul . 
Ruth , too , saw that Jemima was not looking well . 
I believe that this sort of dislike is only shown by the jealous , and that it renders the disliker even more miserable , because more continually conscious than the object ; but the growing evidences of Jemima 's feeling made Ruth very unhappy at times . 
This very May , too , an idea had come into her mind , which she had tried to repress -- namely , that Mr. Farquhar was in love with her . 
It annoyed her extremely ; it made her reproach herself that she ever should think such a thing possible . 
She tried to strangle the notion , to drown it , to starve it out by neglect -- its existence caused her such pain and distress . 
The best was some journey connected with business , which would take him to the continent for several weeks ; and , during that time , surely this disagreeable fancy of his would die away , if untrue ; and if true , some way would be opened by which she might put a stop to all increase of predilection on his part , and yet retain him as a friend for Leonard -- that darling for whom she was far-seeing and covetous , and miserly of every scrap of love and kindly regard . 
Mr. Farquhar would not have been flattered if he had known how much his departure contributed to Ruth 's rest of mind on the Saturday afternoon on which he set out on his journey . 
Ruth sat at her work in the shadow formed by the old grey garden wall ; Miss Benson and Sally -- the one in the parlour window-seat mending stockings , the other hard at work in her kitchen -- were both within talking distance , for it was weather for open doors and windows ; but none of the three kept up any continued conversation ; and in the intervals Ruth sang low a brooding song , such as she remembered her mother singing long ago . 
Now and then she stopped to look at Leonard , who was labouring away with vehement energy at digging over a small plot of ground , where he meant to prick out some celery plants that had been given to him . 
Ruth 's heart warmed at the earnest , spirited way in which he thrust his large spade deep down into the brown soil , his ruddy face glowing , his curly hair wet with the exertion ; and yet she sighed to think that the days were over when her deeds of skill could give him pleasure . 
Now , his delight was in acting himself ; last year , not fourteen months ago , he had watched her making a daisy-chain for him , as if he could not admire her cleverness enough ; this year -- this week , when she had been devoting every spare hour to the simple tailoring which she performed for her boy -LRB- she had always made every article he wore , and felt almost jealous of the employment -RRB- , he had come to her with a wistful look , and asked when he might begin to have clothes made by a man ? 
Ever since the Wednesday when she had accompanied Mary and Elizabeth , at Mrs. Bradshaw 's desire , to be measured for spring clothes by the new Eccleston dressmaker , she had been looking forward to this Saturday afternoon 's pleasure of making summer trousers for Leonard ; but the satisfaction of the employment was a little taken away by Leonard 's speech . 
said Jemima , remembering that Ruth had once spoken of the place as one in which she had spent some time , while the county in which it was situated was the same in which Ruth was born . 
repeated Jemima , convinced by these words that there could be no identity between Ruth and the `` young person '' alluded to . 
All I meant to say -- and perhaps that was a liberty I ought not to have taken , considering what Ruth Hilton was -- '' `` Ruth Hilton ! '' 
`` Tell me about her -- what did she do ? '' 
`` I do n't know whether I ought to tell you , ma'am -- it is hardly a fit story for a young lady ; but this Ruth Hilton was an apprentice to my sister-in-law , who had a first-rate business in Fordham , which brought her a good deal of patronage from the county families ; and this young creature was very artful and bold , and thought sadly too much of her beauty ; and , somehow , she beguiled a young gentleman , who took her into keeping -LRB- I am sure , ma'am , I ought to apologise for polluting your ears -- -RRB- '' `` Go on , '' said Jemima , breathlessly . 
interrupted Jemima -- `` the young man 's mother , or -- or Ruth Hilton ? '' 
She had some dim recollection of hearing her sisters ask if they might not go and invite Leonard and his mother to tea ; and how could she face Ruth , after the conviction had taken possession of her heart that she , and the sinful creature she had just heard of , were one and the same ? 
She loathed the thought of meeting Ruth again . 
She wished that she could take her up , and put her down at a distance somewhere -- anywhere -- where she might never see or hear of her more ; never be reminded , as she must be whenever she saw her , that such things were , in this sunny , bright , lark-singing earth , over which the blue dome of heaven bent softly down as Jemima sat in the hay-field that June afternoon ; her cheeks flushed and red , but her lips pale and compressed , and her eyes full of a heavy , angry sorrow . 
how she sickened at the thought of seeing Ruth ! 
Who was to be trusted more , if Ruth -- calm , modest , delicate , dignified Ruth -- had a memory blackened by sin ? 
As she went heavily along , the thought of Mr. Farquhar came into her mind . 
With the thought of him came in her first merciful feeling towards Ruth . 
This would never have been , had there been the least latent suspicion in Jemima 's jealous mind that Ruth had purposely done aught -- looked a look -- uttered a word -- modulated a tone -- for the sake of attracting . 
As Jemima recalled all the passages of their intercourse , she slowly confessed to herself how pure and simple had been all Ruth 's ways in relation to Mr. Farquhar . 
It was not merely that there had been no coquetting , but there had been simple unconsciousness on Ruth 's part , for so long a time after Jemima had discovered Mr. Farquhar 's inclination for her ; and when at length she had slowly awakened to some perception of the state of his feelings , there had been a modest , shrinking dignity of manner , not startled , or emotional , or even timid , but pure , grave , and quiet ; and this conduct of Ruth 's , Jemima instinctively acknowledged to be of necessity transparent and sincere . 
Now , and here , there was no hypocrisy ; but some time , somewhere , on the part of somebody , what hypocrisy , what lies must have been acted , if not absolutely spoken , before Ruth could have been received by them all as the sweet , gentle , girlish widow , which she remembered they had all believed Mrs. Denbigh to be when first she came among them . 
Not sufficiently acquainted with the world to understand how strong had been the temptation to play the part they did , if they wished to give Ruth a chance , Jemima could not believe them guilty of such deceit as the knowledge of Mrs. Denbigh 's previous conduct would imply ; and yet how it darkened the latter into a treacherous hypocrite , with a black secret shut up in her soul for years -- living in apparent confidence , and daily household familiarity with the Bensons for years , yet never telling the remorse that ought to be corroding her heart ! 
Could there be two Ruth Hiltons . 
She knew that Mrs. Denbigh 's former name had been Hilton . 
She had heard her speak casually , but charily , of having lived in Fordham . 
She knew she had been in Wales but a short time before she made her appearance in Eccleston . 
Into the middle of Jemima 's pain and horror at the afternoon 's discovery , there came a sense of the power which the knowledge of this secret gave her over Ruth ; but this was no relief , only an aggravation of the regret with which Jemima looked back on her state of ignorance . 
She might shun and recoil from Ruth , but she now thought that she could never more be jealous of her . 
In her pride of innocence , she felt almost ashamed that such a feeling could have had existence . 
Could Mr. Farquhar hesitate between her own self and one who -- No ! 
she could not name what Ruth had been , even in thought . 
And yet he might never know , so fair a seeming did her rival wear . 
It might be -- she used to think such things possible , before sorrow had embittered her -- that Ruth had worked her way through the deep purgatory of repentance up to something like purity again ; God only knew ! 
If her present goodness was real -- if , after having striven back thus far on the heights , a fellow-woman was to throw her down into some terrible depth with her unkind , incontinent tongue , that would be too cruel ! 
And yet , if -- there was such woeful uncertainty and deceit somewhere -- if Ruth -- No ! 
Whatever Ruth had been , she was good , and to be respected as such , now . 
But this last she thought , from what she knew of Ruth 's character , was impossible . 
At any rate , she would watch , and wait . 
Come what might , Ruth was in her power . 
And , strange to say , this last certainty gave Jemima a kind of protecting , almost pitying , feeling for Ruth . 
Her horror at the wrong was not diminished ; but the more she thought of the struggles that the wrong-doer must have made to extricate herself , the more she felt how cruel it would be to baffle all by revealing what had been . 
But for her sisters ' sake she had a duty to perform ; she must watch Ruth . 
For her love 's sake she could not have helped watching ; but she was too much stunned to recognise the force of her love , while duty seemed the only stable thing to cling to . 
For the present she would neither meddle nor mar in Ruth 's course of life . 
So it was that Jemima no longer avoided Ruth , nor manifested by word or look the dislike which for a long time she had been scarce concealing . 
Ruth could not help noticing that Jemima always sought to be in her presence while she was at Mr. Bradshaw 's house ; either when daily teaching Mary and Elizabeth , or when she came as an occasional visitor with Mr. and Miss Benson , or by herself . 
Up to this time , Jemima had used no gentle skill to conceal the abruptness with which she would leave the room rather than that Ruth and she should be brought into contact -- rather than that it should fall to her lot to entertain Ruth during any part of the evening . 
It was months since Jemima had left off sitting in the school-room , as had been her wont during the first few years of Ruth 's governess-ship . 
Now , each morning , Miss Bradshaw seated herself at a little round table in the window , at her work , or at her writing ; but whether she sewed , or wrote , or read , Ruth felt that she was always watching -- watching . 
At first , Ruth had welcomed all these changes in habit and behaviour , as giving her a chance , she thought , by some patient waiting or some opportune show of enduring constant love , to regain her lost friend 's regard ; but by-and-by , the icy chillness , immovable and grey , struck more to her heart than many sudden words of unkindness could have done . 
The watching , which Ruth felt was ever upon her , made her unconsciously shiver , as you would if you saw that the passionless eyes of the dead were visibly gazing upon you . 
Her very being shrivelled and parched up in Jemima 's presence , as if blown upon by a bitter , keen , east wind . 
Jemima bent every power she possessed upon the one object of ascertaining what Ruth really was . 
Sometimes the strain was very painful ; the constant tension made her soul weary ; and she moaned aloud , and upbraided circumstance -LRB- she dared not go higher -- to the maker of circumstance -RRB- for having deprived her of her unsuspicious happy ignorance . 
`` My father will like to know ; tell it him ; '' continued she , as she was leaving the room , to be alone , in order to still her habitual agitation whenever she heard Mr. Farquhar and Ruth coupled together . 
Her brother did not allow a word , a look , or an incident , which might be supposed on Mr. Farquhar 's side to refer to Ruth , to pass unnoticed ; he pointed out all to his sister , never dreaming of the torture he was inflicting , only anxious to prove his own extreme penetration . 
For the next week , she seemed to see and hear nothing but what confirmed the idea of Mr. Farquhar 's decided attachment to Ruth . 
Even her mother spoke of it as a thing which was impending , and which she wondered how Mr. Bradshaw would like ; for his approval or disapproval was the standard by which she measured all things . 
Ruth and Leonard were to go ; they four . 
Ruth took off her bonnet , and folded her shawl with her usual dainty , careful neatness , and laid them aside in a corner of the room to be in readiness . 
She tried to forget the pleasure she always anticipated from a long walk towards the hills , while the morning 's work went on ; but she showed enough of sympathy to make the girls cling round her with many a caress of joyous love . 
Ruth said , `` Now , do let us try to be very steady this next hour , '' and Mary pulled back Ruth 's head , and gave the pretty budding mouth a kiss . 
Ruth 's voice lost a tone or two of its peacefulness , and her eyes looked more dim and anxious at Jemima 's presence . 
She wondered in her heart if she dared to ask Miss Bradshaw to accompany them in their expedition . 
Eighteen months ago she would have urged it on her friend with soft , loving entreaty ; now she was afraid even to propose it as a hard possibility , everything she did or said was taken so wrongly -- seemed to add to the old dislike , or the later stony contempt with which Miss Bradshaw had regarded her . 
She maintained her ground , facing round upon her father , and Ruth -- Ruth , who had risen , and stood trembling , shaking , a lightning-fear having shown her the precipice on which she stood . 
Ruth stood speechless , motionless . 
Her head drooped a little forward , her eyes were more than half veiled by the large quivering lids , her arms hung down straight and heavy . 
At last she heaved the weight off her heart enough to say , in a faint , moaning voice , speaking with infinite difficulty : `` I was so young . '' 
Look at that woman '' -LRB- indicating Ruth , who moved her drooping head a little on one side , as if by such motion she could avert the pitiless pointing -- her face growing whiter and whiter still every instant -RRB- -- `` look at that woman , I say -- corrupt long before she was your age -- hypocrite for years ! 
Jemima , all flushed and panting , went up and stood side by side with wan Ruth . 
She took the cold , dead hand which hung next to her in her warm convulsive grasp , and , holding it so tight , that it was blue and discoloured for days , she spoke out beyond all power of restraint from her father . 
I will bear witness to Ruth . 
I have hated her -- so keenly , may God forgive me ! 
I have hated her , and my hatred was only quenched into contempt -- not contempt now , dear Ruth -- dear Ruth '' -- -LRB- this was spoken with infinite softness and tenderness , and in spite of her father 's fierce eyes and passionate gesture -RRB- -- `` I heard what you have learnt now , father , weeks and weeks ago -- a year it may be , all time of late has been so long ; and I shuddered up from her and from her sin ; and I might have spoken of it , and told it there and then , if I had not been afraid that it was from no good motive I should act in so doing , but to gain a way to the desire of my own jealous heart . 
Yes , father , to show you what a witness I am for Ruth , I will own that I was stabbed to the heart with jealousy ; some one -- some one cared for Ruth that -- oh , father ! 
Her face was double-dyed with crimson blushes , and she paused for one moment -- no more . 
`` I watched her , and I watched her with my wild-beast eyes . 
`` And I will tell you how much your witness is worth , '' said her father , beginning low , that his pent-up wrath might have room to swell out . 
`` I have done very wrong , '' murmured Ruth , but so low , that perhaps he did not hear her , for he went on , lashing himself up . 
I was duped into allowing her bastard -- -LRB- I sicken at the thought of it -RRB- -- '' At the mention of Leonard , Ruth lifted up her eyes for the first time since the conversation began , the pupils dilating , as if she were just becoming aware of some new agony in store for her . 
Ruth spread her arms before her , clasping and lacing her fingers together , her head thrown a little back , as if in intensest suffering . 
`` I can not bear it -- I can not bear it , '' were the words wrung out of Ruth . 
Ruth spoke out . 
She stood like a wild creature at bay , past fear now . 
Ruth had caught up her shawl , and was tying on her bonnet with her trembling hands . 
What if Leonard was hearing of her shame from common report ? 
She must face him , and see the look in his eyes , before she knew whether he recoiled from her ; he might have his heart turned to hate her , by their cruel jeers . 
She helped in arranging the dress , with one or two gentle touches , which were hardly felt by Ruth , but which called out all Mr. Bradshaw 's ire afresh ; he absolutely took her by the shoulders and turned her by force out of the room . 
In the hall , and along the stairs , her passionate woeful crying was heard . 
The sound only concentrated Mr. Bradshaw 's anger on Ruth . 
He needed not have added this , if he had seen Ruth 's face . 
As Ruth went along the accustomed streets , every sight and every sound seemed to bear a new meaning , and each and all to have some reference to her boy 's disgrace . 
She held her head down , and scudded along dizzy with fear , lest some word should have told him what she had been , and what he was , before she could reach him . 
It was a wild unreasoning fear , but it took hold of her as strongly as if it had been well founded . 
As Ruth came up to the door of the Chapel-house , it was opened , and Leonard came out , bright and hopeful as the morning , his face radiant at the prospect of the happy day before him . 
He was dressed in the clothes it had been such a pleasant pride to her to make for him . 
He had the dark blue ribbon tied round his neck that she had left out for him that very morning , with a smiling thought of how it would set off his brown handsome face . 
She caught him by the hand as they met , and turned him , with his face homewards , without a word . 
Her looks , her rushing movement , her silence , awed him ; and although he wondered , he did not stay to ask why she did so . 
The door was on the latch ; she opened it , and only said , `` Up-stairs , '' in a hoarse whisper . 
Up they went into her own room . 
She drew him in , and bolted the door ; and then , sitting down , she placed him -LRB- she had never let go of him -RRB- before her , holding him with her hands on each of his shoulders , and gazing into his face with a woeful look of the agony that could not find vent in words . 
At last she tried to speak ; she tried with strong bodily effort , almost amounting to convulsion . 
But the words would not come ; it was not till she saw the absolute terror depicted on his face that she found utterance ; and then the sight of that terror changed the words from what she meant them to have been . 
She drew him to her , and laid her head upon his shoulder ; hiding her face even there . 
Ruth lifted herself up , and put away the hair that had fallen over and was blinding her eyes . 
She looked at him with intense wistfulness . 
said she -- `` kiss me , my darling , once more in the old way ! '' 
Leonard threw himself into her arms , and hugged her with all his force , and their lips clung together as in the kiss given to the dying . 
said she at length , holding him away from her , and nerving herself up to tell him all by one spasmodic effort -- `` Listen to me . '' 
The boy stood breathless and still , gazing at her . 
On her impetuous transit from Mr. Bradshaw 's to the Chapel - house , her wild desperate thought had been that she would call herself by every violent , coarse name which the world might give her -- that Leonard should hear those words applied to his mother first from her own lips ; but the influence of his presence -- for he was a holy and sacred creature in her eyes , and this point remained steadfast , though all the rest were upheaved -- subdued her ; and now it seemed as if she could not find words fine enough , and pure enough , to convey the truth that he must learn , and should learn from no tongue but hers . 
`` You forget , my child , '' said Ruth , in the sweetest , saddest tone that ever was heard , `` I said it of myself ; I said it because it was true . '' 
Leonard threw his arms tight round her , and hid his face against her bosom . 
She felt him pant there like some hunted creature . 
She had no soothing comfort to give him . 
At last , exhausted , he lay so still and motionless , that she feared to look . 
She wanted him to speak , yet dreaded his first words . 
She kissed his hair , his head , his very clothes ; murmuring low inarticulate moaning sounds . 
`` Leonard , '' said she , `` Leonard , look up at me ! 
said she , `` what can I do or say ? 
She spoke now as if she had found the clue which might lead him to rest and strength at last . 
-- -LRB- she felt him kiss her , as if mutely trying to comfort her -- it gave her strength to go on -RRB- -- `` remember , darling of my heart , it is only your own sin that can make you an outcast from God . '' 
She grew so faint that her hold of him relaxed . 
He brought her water -- he threw it overdeath-like . 
She almost hoped the swoon that hung around her might be Death , and in that imagination she opened her eyes to take a last look at her boy . 
She saw him pale and terror-stricken ; and pity for his affright roused her , and made her forget herself in the wish that he should not see her death , if she were indeed dying . 
whispered she ; `` I am weary , and want sleep . '' 
She tried to smile upon him , that what she thought would be her last look might dwell in his remembrance as tender and strong ; she watched him to the door , she saw him hesitate , and return to her . 
He came back to her , and said in a timid , apprehensive tone : `` Mother -- will they speak to me about -- it ? '' 
Ruth closed her eyes , that they might not express the agony she felt , like a sharp knife , at this question . 
Leonard had asked it with a child 's desire of avoiding painful and mysterious topics , -- from no personal sense of shame as she understood it , shame beginning thus early , thus instantaneously . 
`` No , '' she replied . 
But now she would have been thankful for the unconsciousness of fainting ; that one little speech bore so much meaning to her hot irritable brain . 
Miss Benson thought the purposed expedition had taken place , and never dreamed but that Ruth and Leonard were on distant sunny Scaurside-hill ; and after a very early dinner , she had set out to drink tea with a farmer 's wife who lived in the country two or three miles off . 
Mr. Benson meant to have gone with her ; but while they were at dinner , he had received an unusually authoritative note from Mr. Bradshaw desiring to speak with him , so he went to that gentleman 's house instead . 
Why I advised -LRB- perhaps I only yielded to advice -RRB- a change of name -- an assumption of a false state of widowhood -- was because I earnestly desired to place her in circumstances in which she might work out her self-redemption ; and you , sir , know how terribly the world goes against all such as have sinned as Ruth did . 
She was so young , too . '' 
You applied to me with your proposal that Ruth should be your children 's governess . '' 
`` But , '' continued he , after a moment 's pause , `` I will not speak of myself , but of Ruth . 
Surely , sir , the end I aimed at -LRB- the means I took to obtain it were wrong , you can not feel that more than I do -RRB- was a right one ; and you will not -- you can not say , that your children have suffered from associating with her . 
I had her in my family , under the watchful eyes of three anxious persons for a year or more ; we saw faults -- no human being is without them -- and poor Ruth 's were but slight venial errors ; but we saw no sign of a corrupt mind -- no glimpse of boldness or forwardness -- no token of want of conscientiousness ; she seemed , and was , a young and gentle girl , who had been led astray before she fairly knew what life was . '' 
Ruth was not depraved , and you know it . 
You can not have seen her -- have known her daily , all these years , without acknowledging that ! '' 
`` I saw her daily -- I did not know her . 
If I had known her , I should have known she was fallen and depraved , and consequently not fit to come into my house , nor to associate with my pure children . '' 
I declare before God , that if I believe in any one human truth , it is this -- that to every woman , who , like Ruth , has sinned , should be given a chance of self-redemption -- and that such a chance should be given in no supercilious or contemptuous manner , but in the spirit of the holy Christ . '' 
`` Such as getting her into a friend 's house under false colours . '' 
`` I do not argue on Ruth 's case . 
If Mr. Benson had felt any hope of making Mr. Bradshaw 's obstinate mind receive the truth , that he acknowledged and repented of his connivance at the falsehood by means of which Ruth had been received into the Bradshaw family , this last sentence prevented his making the attempt . 
Ruth 's hand was on the latch when Mr. Benson came out . 
Her face was very white , except two red spots on each cheek -- her eyes were deep sunk and hollow , but glittered with feverish lustre . 
`` Ruth ! '' 
She moved her lips , but her throat and mouth were too dry for her to speak . 
asked he ; for she had all her walking things on , yet trembled so , even as she stood , that it was evident she could not walk far without falling . 
She hesitated -- she looked up at him , still with the same dry glittering eyes . 
At last she whispered -LRB- for she could only speak in a whisper -RRB- , `` To Helmsby -- I am going to Helmsby . '' 
for he saw she hardly knew what she was saying . 
he 's asleep , '' said she , as Mr. Benson had unconsciously raised his voice . 
`` That poor little boy , '' said she , beginning to quiver and cry . 
said he , authoritatively , drawing her into the study . 
He went in search of his sister , but she had not returned . 
`` How long has Ruth been at home ? '' 
`` Ruth ! 
Ruth sat where he had placed her , her head bent back , and her eyes shut . 
But when he came in she started up . 
`` I must be going , '' she said , in a hurried way . 
`` Nay , Ruth , you must not go . 
said she , looking at him wistfully . 
As she looked , her eyes filled slowly with tears . 
Ruth . 
she asked , in a low , hoarse voice . 
she replied , bursting into tears -- `` and I must leave you , and leave Leonard , that you may not share in my disgrace . '' 
`` To Helmsby , '' she said , humbly . 
She was crying sadly by this time , but Mr. Benson knew the flow of tears would ease her brain . 
He brought it to her without Sally 's being aware for whom it was intended . 
She took the tea , and drank it feverishly ; but when she tried to eat , the food seemed to choke her . 
Still she was docile , and she tried . 
`` I can not , '' said she at last , putting down the piece of toast . 
There was a return to something of her usual tone in the words . 
She spoke gently and softly ; no longer in the shrill , hoarse voice she had used at first . 
Mr. Benson sat down by her . 
`` Now , Ruth , we must talk a little together . 
`` It is where my mother lived , '' she answered . 
I meant to tell them the truth , '' said she , dropping her eyes ; `` but still they would , perhaps , give me some employment -- I do n't care what -- for her sake . 
I could do many things , '' said she , suddenly looking up . 
she cried out , sobbing afresh . 
`` Ruth ! 
And if you go away , he may be unhappy or ill ; and you , who above all others have -- and have from God -- remember that , Ruth ! 
All this time he was watching her narrowly , and saw her slowly yield herself up to the force of what he was saying . 
`` Besides , Ruth , '' he continued , `` we have gone on falsely hitherto . 
Perhaps you will have to find your work in the world very low -- not quite working in the fields , '' said he , with a gentle smile , to which she , downcast and miserable , could give no response . 
`` Nay , perhaps , Ruth , '' he went on , `` you may have to stand and wait for some time ; no one may be willing to use the services you would gladly render ; all may turn aside from you , and may speak very harshly of you . 
Ruth had been hushed and very still until now , when the pleading earnestness of his question urged her to answer : `` Yes ! '' 
said she . 
But Leonard -- '' She looked up at him . 
there it is hard , Ruth . 
`` The world is not everything , Ruth ; nor is the want of men 's good opinion and esteem the highest need which man has . 
Ruth ! 
Oh , Ruth ! '' 
Ruth sat very quiet . 
Her eyes were fixed on the ground , and she seemed lost in thought . 
At length she rose up . 
said she , standing before him , and propping herself by the table , as she was trembling sadly from weakness , `` I mean to try very , very hard , to do my duty to Leonard -- and to God , '' she added , reverently . 
That is no vain or untried promise , Ruth ! '' 
She sat down again , unable longer to stand . 
`` I must never go to Mr. Bradshaw 's again , '' she said at last , ' as if thinking aloud . 
`` No , Ruth , you shall not , '' he answered . 
added she , quickly , for she thought that he did not perceive the difficulty that was troubling her . 
`` You surely know , Ruth , that while Faith and I have a roof to shelter us , or bread to eat , you and Leonard share it with us . '' 
`` I know -- I know your most tender goodness , '' said she , `` but it ought not to be . '' 
`` Hush , '' said Ruth ; `` Leonard is moving about in the parlour . 
But when she stood up , she turned so dizzy , and tottered so much , that she was glad to sit down again immediately . 
He left her ; and when he was gone , she leaned her head on the back of the chair , and cried quietly and incessantly ; but there was a more patient , hopeful , resolved feeling in her heart , which all along , through all the tears she shed , bore her onwards to higher thoughts , until at last she rose to prayers . 
He himself made no allusion to any unusual occurrence ; he spoke of Ruth as sitting , overcome by headache , in the study for quietness : he hurried on the preparations for tea , while Leonard sat by in the great armchair , and looked on with sad dreamy eyes . 
When Leonard had gone up-stairs , Mr. Benson went immediately to Ruth , and said , `` Ruth ! 
Leonard is just gone up to bed , '' secure in the instinct which made her silently rise , and go up to the boy -- certain , too , that they would each be the other 's best comforter , and that God would strengthen each through the other . 
`` I do n't know how , but the real story about Ruth is found out . '' 
`` Does Ruth know that it has all come out ? '' 
`` Ruth has had some years of peace , in which to grow stronger and wiser , so that she can bear her shame now in a way she never could have done at first . '' 
it is such a relief to me to have the truth known , that I am afraid I have not been sufficiently sympathising with Ruth . '' 
`` Poor Ruth ! '' 
He was very angry , and said some things about me that were very just , and some about Ruth that were very hard . 
`` Does Ruth know all he said ? '' 
Why should she ? 
I do n't know if she knows he has spoken to me at all . 
she had enough to craze her almost without that ! 
She was for going away and leaving us that we might not share in her disgrace . 
I was afraid of her being quite delirious . 
However , I did the best I could , I spoke to her very coldly , and almost sternly , all the while my heart was bleeding for her . 
I dared not give her sympathy ; I tried to give her strength . 
But the Dawsons are so kind -- and the day was so fine -- Where is Ruth now ? '' 
He is her great earthly motive -- I thought that being with him would be best . 
`` I will go up to her , '' said Miss Faith . 
She found Ruth keeping watch by Leonard 's troubled sleep ; but when she saw Miss Faith she rose up , and threw herself on her neck and clung to her , without speaking . 
After a while Miss Benson said : `` You must go to bed , Ruth ! '' 
How is poor Ruth ? 
dear Ruth ! 
I wonder if she has forgiven me my cruelty to her ? 
And I may not go to her now , when I should be so glad and thankful to make up for it . '' 
`` I never heard you had been cruel to her . 
I am sure she does not think so . '' 
`` She ought , she must . 
What is she doing ? 
I have so much to ask , I can never hear enough ; and papa says -- she hesitated a moment , afraid of giving pain , and then , believing that they would understand the state of affairs , and the reason for her behaviour better if she told the truth , she went on : `` Papa says I must not go to your house -- I suppose it 's right to obey him ? '' 
but if I could do any good -- if I could be of any use or comfort to any of you -- especially to Ruth , I should come , duty or not . 
Mr. Benson , '' continued she , reddening very much , `` I think you did quite right about poor Ruth . '' 
But I have been thinking a great deal about poor Ruth 's -- you know I could not help it when everybody was talking about it -- and it made me think of myself , and what I am . 
With a father and mother , and home and careful friends , I am not likely to be tempted like Ruth ; but oh ! 
Mr. Benson , '' said she , lifting her eyes , which were full of tears , to his face , for the first time since she began to speak , `` if you knew all I have been thinking and feeling this last year , you would see how I have yielded to every temptation that was able to come to me ; and , seeing how I have no goodness or strength in me , and how I might just have been like Ruth , or rather , worse than she ever was , because I am more headstrong and passionate by nature , I do so thank you and love you for what you did for her ! 
And will you tell me really and truly now if I can ever do anything for Ruth ? 
When Mr. Benson caught Ruth 's look of agony at her child 's rebuffs , his patience failed ; or rather , I should say , he believed that a stronger , severer hand than hers was required for the management of the lad . 
But , when she heard Mr. Benson say so , she pleaded with him . 
`` Have patience with Leonard , '' she said . 
Even while she spoke , her lips quivered , and her colour went and came with eager anxiety . 
So Mr. Benson held his peace , and let her take her course . 
It was beautiful to see the intuition by which she divined what was passing in every fold of her child 's heart , so as to be always ready with the right words to soothe or to strengthen him . 
Her watchfulness was unwearied , and with no thought of self tainting it , or else she might have often paused to turn aside and weep at the clouds of shame which came over Leonard 's love for her , and hid it from all but her faithful heart ; she believed and knew that he was yet her own affectionate boy , although he might be gloomily silent , or apparently hard and cold . 
And in all this , Mr. Benson could not choose but admire the way in which she was insensibly teaching Leonard to conform to the law of right , to recognise Duty in the mode in which every action was performed . 
It was what must be ; an inevitable consequence of what had been ; and Ruth had to be patient , and pray in secret , and with many tears , for the strength she needed . 
She knew what it was to dread the going out into the streets after her story had become known . 
For days and days she had silently shrunk from this effort . 
But one evening towards dusk , Miss Benson was busy , and asked her to go an errand for her ; and Ruth got up and silently obeyed her . 
That silence as to inward suffering was only one part of her peculiar and exquisite sweetness of nature ; part of the patience with which she `` accepted her penance . '' 
Her true instincts told her that it was not right to disturb others with many expressions of her remorse ; that the holiest repentance consisted in a quiet and daily sacrifice . 
Still there were times when she wearied pitifully of her inaction . 
She was so willing to serve and work , and every one despised her services . 
Her mind , as I have said before , had been well cultivated during these last few years ; so now she used all the knowledge she had gained in teaching Leonard , which was an employment that Mr. Benson relinquished willingly , because he felt that it would give her some of the occupation that she needed . 
She endeavoured to make herself useful in the house in every way she could ; but the waters of housekeeping had closed over her place during the time of her absence at Mr. Bradshaw 's -- and , besides , now that they were trying to restrict every unnecessary expense , it was sometimes difficult to find work for three women . 
Many and many a time Ruth turned over in her mind every possible chance of obtaining employment for her leisure hours , and nowhere could she find it . 
But whatever it was , Ruth took it , and was thankful , although it added but a few pence to the household purse . 
Ruth 's salary of forty pounds was gone , while more of her `` keep , '' as Sally called it , was thrown upon the Bensons . 
So Ruth 's small earnings were but very little in actual hard commercial account , though in another sense they were much ; and Miss Benson always received them with quiet simplicity . 
By degrees , Mr. Benson absorbed some of Ruth 's time in a gracious and natural way . 
He employed her mind in all the kind offices he was accustomed to render to the poor around him . 
If Ruth began low down to find her place in the world , at any rate there was no flaw in the foundation . 
The truth was , he could not help recurring to the last time when he was in that room , waiting to take Leonard a ride , and his heart beating rather more quickly than usual at the idea that Ruth might bring the boy in when he was equipped . 
He was very full now of the remembrance of Ruth ; and yet he was also most thankful , most self-gratulatory , that he had gone no further in his admiration of her -- that he had never expressed his regard in words -- that no one , as he believed , was cognisant of the incipient love which had grown partly out of his admiration , and partly out of his reason . 
He was thankful to be spared any implication in the nine-days ' wonder which her story had made in Eccleston . 
And yet his feeling for her had been of so strong a character , that he winced , as with extreme pain , at every application of censure to her name . 
His first rebound to Jemima was occasioned by Mrs. Bradshaw 's account of how severely her husband was displeased at her daughter 's having taken part with Ruth ; and he could have thanked and almost blessed Jemima when she dropped in -LRB- she dared to no more -RRB- her pleading excuses and charitable explanations on Ruth 's behalf . 
Jemima had learnt some humility from the discovery which had been to her so great a shock ; standing , she had learnt to take heed lest she fell ; and when she had once been aroused to a perception of the violence of the hatred which she had indulged against Ruth , she was more reticent and measured in the expression of all her opinions . 
It showed how much her character had been purified from pride , that now she felt aware that what in her was again attracting Mr. Farquhar was her faithful advocacy of her rival , wherever such advocacy was wise or practicable . 
He was quite un-aware that Jemima had been conscious of his great admiration for Ruth ; he did not know that she had ever cared enough for him to be jealous . 
But the unacknowledged bond between them now was their grief , and sympathy , and pity for Ruth ; only in Jemima these feelings were ardent , and would fain have become active ; while in Mr. Farquhar they were strongly mingled with thankfulness that he had escaped a disagreeable position , and a painful notoriety . 
His natural caution induced him to make a resolution never to think of any woman as a wife until he had ascertained all her antecedents , from her birth upwards ; and the same spirit of caution , directed inwardly , made him afraid of giving too much pity to Ruth , for fear of the conclusions to which such a feeling might lead him . 
But still his old regard for her , for Leonard , and his esteem and respect for the Bensons , induced him to lend a willing ear to Jemima 's earnest entreaty that he would go and call on Mr. Benson , in order that she might learn something about the family in general , and Ruth in particular . 
The two gentlemen shook hands with each other warmly on parting ; but no further allusion was made to either Ruth or Leonard . 
I wonder what Ruth can be doing to support herself and Leonard ? 
`` And you never see Ruth by any chance ? '' 
They were not raised when , half an hour afterwards , she said , `` You wo n't forbid my going to see Ruth , will you ? 
`` Not more faithful than I have been to you , '' for in truth , the recollection of his love for Ruth had utterly faded away , and he thought himself a model of constancy ; `` and you have tried me pretty well . 
Jemima sighed ; smitten with the consciousness of how little she had deserved her present happiness ; humble with the recollection of the evil thoughts that had raged in her heart during the time -LRB- which she remembered well , though he might have forgotten it -RRB- when Ruth had the affection which her jealous rival coveted . 
for some reason or fancy which she could not define , and could not be persuaded out of , she wished to keep their mutual understanding a secret . 
She had a natural desire to avoid the congratulations she expected from her family . 
She dreaded her father 's consideration of the whole affair as a satisfactory disposal of his daughter to a worthy man , who , being his partner , would not require any abstraction of capital from the concern ; and Richard 's more noisy delight at his sister 's having `` hooked '' so good a match . 
Somehow , the sympathy of all others that she most longed for was Ruth 's ; but the first communication of such an event was due to her parents . 
She imposed very strict regulations on Mr. Farquhar 's behaviour ; and quarrelled and differed from him more than ever , but with a secret joyful understanding with him in her heart , even while they disagreed with each other -- for similarity of opinion is not always -- I think not often -- needed for fulness and perfection of love . 
After Ruth 's `` detection , '' as Mr. Bradshaw used to call it , he said he could never trust another governess again ; so Mary and Elizabeth had been sent to school the following Christmas , and their place in the family was but poorly supplied by the return of Mr. Richard Bradshaw , who had left London , and been received as a partner . 
The conversation narrated in the last chapter as taking place between Mr. Farquhar and Jemima , occurred about a year after Ruth 's dismissal from her situation . 
They consisted in Ruth 's futile endeavours to obtain some employment , however humble ; in Leonard 's fluctuations of spirits and health ; in Sally 's increasing deafness ; in the final and unmendable wearing-out of the parlour carpet , which there was no spare money to replace , and so they cheerfully supplied its want by a large hearth-rug that Ruth made out of ends of list ; and , what was more a subject of unceasing regret to Mr. Benson than all , the defection of some of the members of his congregation , who followed Mr. Bradshaw 's lead . 
He only wished he could more frequently leave the solitary comfort of his study , and join the kitchen party ; where Sally sat as mistress in the chimney-corner , knitting by fire-light , and Miss Benson and Ruth , with the candle between them , stitched away at their work ; while Leonard strewed the ample dresser with his slate and books . 
Mr. Benson saw this , but reserved his offers of help as long as he could , hoping that before his assistance became absolutely necessary , some mode of employment beyond that of occasional plain-work might be laid open to Ruth . 
They wondered -- Miss Benson and Ruth did at least -- much about the details . 
Ruth sat over her sewing , fancying how all had taken place ; and as soon as she had arranged the events which were going on among people and places once so familiar to her , she found some discrepancy , and set-to afresh to picture the declaration of love , and the yielding , blushing acceptance ; for Mr. Farquhar had told little beyond the mere fact that there was an engagement between himself and Jemima which had existed for some time , but which had been kept secret until now , when it was acknowledged , sanctioned , and to be fulfilled as soon as he returned from an arrangement of family affairs in Scotland . 
This intelligence had been enough for Mr. Benson , who was the only person Mr. Farquhar saw ; as Ruth always shrank from the post of opening the door , and Mr. Benson was apt at recognising individual knocks , and always prompt to welcome Mr. Farquhar . 
Miss Benson occasionally thought -- and what she thought she was in the habit of saying -- that Jemima might have come herself to announce such an event to old friends ; but Mr. Benson decidedly vindicated her from any charge of neglect , by expressing his strong conviction that to her they owed Mr. Farquhar 's calls -- his all but out-spoken offers of service -- his quiet , steady interest in Leonard ; and , moreover -LRB- repeating the conversation he had with her in the street , the first time they met after the disclosure -RRB- , Mr. Benson told his sister how glad he was to find that , with all the warmth of her impetuous disposition hurrying her on to rebellion against her father , she was now attaining to that just self-control which can distinguish between mere wishes and true reasons -- that she could abstain from coming to see Ruth while she could do but little good , reserving herself for some great occasion or strong emergency . 
Ruth said nothing , but she yearned all the more in silence to see Jemima . 
In her recollection of that fearful interview with Mr. Bradshaw , which haunted her yet , sleeping or waking , she was painfully conscious that she had not thanked Jemima for her generous , loving advocacy ; it had passed unregarded at the time in intensity of agony -- but now she recollected that by no word , or tone , or touch , had she given any sign of gratitude . 
Ruth 's only point of hope was Leonard . 
She was weary of looking for work and employment , which everywhere seemed held above her reach . 
She was not impatient of this , but she was very , very sorry . 
She felt within her such capability , and all ignored her , and passed her by on the other side . 
But she saw some progress in Leonard . 
At present there was no harmony in Leonard 's character ; he was as full of thought and self-consciousness as many men , planning his actions long beforehand , so as to avoid what he dreaded , and what she could not yet give him strength to face , coward as she was herself , and shrinking from hard remarks . 
Next to Ruth , Sally had perhaps the most influence over him ; but he dearly loved both Mr. and Miss Benson ; although he was reserved on this , as on every point not purely intellectual . 
On the evening of the 13th , Ruth was sitting alone in the parlour , idly gazing out on the darkening shadows in the little garden ; her eyes kept filling with quiet tears , that rose , not for her own isolation from all that was going on of bustle and preparation for the morrow 's event , but because she had seen how Miss Benson had felt that she and her brother were left out from the gathering of old friends in the Bradshaw family . 
As Ruth sat , suddenly she was aware of a figure by her ; she started up , and in the gloom of the apartment she recognised Jemima . 
whispered Jemima in Ruth 's ear . 
`` Oh , Ruth , how I hated you once ! '' 
Oh , Ruth , I did hate you ! '' 
Ruth spoke first . 
`` I will go for them , '' said Ruth . 
Ruth , '' said she , dropping her voice , `` is Leonard stronger than he was ? 
asked she anxiously . 
Not what a boy of his age should be , '' replied his mother , in a tone of quiet but deep mournfulness . 
continued she , `` my sharpest punishment comes through him . 
Jemima added the last words in a hesitating and doubtful manner , as if she did not know how to express her full meaning without hurting Ruth . 
But he is better , '' she continued , feeling that Jemima 's kind anxiety required an answer at any cost of pain to herself . 
Ruth , I have been talking to papa to-night , very seriously and quietly , and it has made me love him so much more , and understand him so much better . '' 
I hope he does , '' said Ruth . 
`` Mr. and Miss Benson wo n't hear of my going away , '' said Ruth , sadly . 
But now , Ruth , will you tell Mr. and Miss Benson that I am here ? 
Not many weeks after this , the poor old woman whom I have named as having become a friend of Ruth 's , during Leonard 's illness three years ago , fell down and broke her hip-bone . 
It was a serious -- probably a fatal injury , for one so old ; and as soon as Ruth heard of it she devoted all her leisure time to old Ann Fleming . 
Leonard had now outstript his mother 's powers of teaching , and Mr. Benson gave him his lessons ; so Ruth was a great deal at the cottage both night and day . 
She and Mr. Farquhar had been to the Bensons , and had sat there some time ; and now Jemima had come on just to see Ruth for five minutes , before the evening was too dark for her to return alone . 
She found Ruth sitting on a stool before the fire , which was composed of a few sticks on the hearth . 
The blaze they gave was , however , enough to enable her to read ; and she was deep in study of the Bible , in which she had read aloud to the poor old woman , until the latter had fallen asleep . 
Jemima backoned her out , and they stood on the green just before the open door , so that Ruth could see if Ann awoke . 
said Jemima , involuntarily glancing over the beautiful lithe figure , and the lovely refinement of Ruth 's face , as the light of the rising moon fell upon it . 
`` My dear Ruth , I do n't think you are fitted for it ! '' 
said Ruth , a little disappointed . 
Why , Ruth , you are better educated than I am ! '' 
`` Your knowledge of Latin , for instance , '' said Jemima , hitting , in her vexation at the plan , on the first acquirement of Ruth she could think of . 
said Ruth , `` that wo n't come amiss ; I can read the prescriptions . '' 
Ruth was quite silent for some time . 
At last she said : `` At any rate it is work , and as such I am thankful for it . 
Walter and I had planned that we would persuade you to come to us very often '' -LRB- she had planned , and Mr. Farquhar had consented -RRB- ; `` and now you will have to be fastened up in a sick room . '' 
`` I could not have come , '' said Ruth quickly . 
He could and did obtain employment for Ruth as a sick nurse . 
Her home was with the Bensons ; every spare moment was given to Leonard and to them ; but she was at the call of all the invalids in the town . 
At first her work lay exclusively among the paupers . 
At first , too , there was a recoil from many circumstances , which impressed upon her the most fully the physical sufferings of those whom she tended . 
But she tried to lose the sense of these -- or rather to lessen them , and make them take their appointed places -- in thinking of the individuals themselves , as separate from their decaying frames ; and all along she had enough self-command to control herself from expressing any sign of repugnance . 
She allowed herself no nervous haste of movement or touch that should hurt the feelings of the poorest , most friendless creature , who ever lay a victim to disease . 
There was no rough getting over of all the disagreeable and painful work of her employment . 
When it was a lessening of pain to have the touch careful and delicate , and the ministration performed with gradual skill , Ruth thought of her charge and not of herself . 
As she had foretold , she found a use for all her powers . 
The poor patients themselves were unconsciously gratified and soothed by her harmony and refinement of manner , voice , and gesture . 
By degrees her reputation as a nurse spread upwards , and many sought her good offices who could well afford to pay for them . 
Whatever remuneration was offered to her , she took it simply and without comment : for she felt that it was not hers to refuse ; that it was , in fact , owing to the Bensons for her and her child 's subsistence . 
She went wherever her services were first called for . 
If the poor bricklayer who broke both his legs in a fall from the scaffolding sent for her when she was disengaged , she went and remained with him until he could spare her , let who would be the next claimant . 
From the happy and prosperous in all but health , she would occasionally beg off , when some one less happy and more friendless wished for her ; and sometimes she would ask for a little money from Mr. Benson to give to such in their time of need . 
But it was astonishing how much she was able to do without money . 
Her ways were very quiet ; she never spoke much . 
And yet Ruth 's silence was not like reserve ; it was too gentle and tender for that . 
She did not talk much about religion ; but those who noticed her knew that it was the unseen banner which she was following . 
The low-breathed sentences which she spoke into the ear of the sufferer and the dying carried them upwards to God . 
She gradually became known and respected among the roughest boys of the rough populace of the town . 
They would make way for her when she passed along the streets with more deference then they used to most ; for all knew something of the tender care with which she had attended this or that sick person , and , besides , she was so often in connexion with Death that something of the superstitious awe with which the dead were regarded by those rough boys in the midst of their strong life , surrounded her . 
She herself did not feel changed . 
She felt just as faulty -- as far from being what she wanted to be , as ever . 
She best knew how many of her good actions were incomplete , and marred with evil . 
She did not feel much change from the earliest Ruth she could remember . 
This told Ruth of the lapse of life and time . 
This latter feeling even went so far that Mr. Farquhar called one day , and with much diffidence begged Mr. Benson to urge Ruth to let him be sent to school at his -LRB- Mr. Farquhar 's -RRB- expense . 
That evening there was a long conference , for , as it happened , Ruth was at home . 
She was strenuously against the school plan . 
She could see no advantages that would counterbalance the evil which she dreaded from any school for Leonard ; namely , that the good opinion and regard of the world would assume too high an importance in his eyes . 
The very idea seemed to produce in her so much shrinking affright , that by mutual consent the subject was dropped ; to be taken up again , or not , according to circumstances . 
When Ruth had no call upon her time , it was indeed a holiday at Chapel-house . 
She threw off as much as she could of the care and the sadness in which she had been sharing ; and returned fresh and helpful , ready to go about in her soft , quiet way , and fill up every measure of service , and heap it with the fragrance of her own sweet nature . 
The delicate mending , that the elder women could no longer see to do , was put by for Ruth 's swift and nimble fingers . 
The occasional copying , or patient writing to dictation , that gave rest to Mr. Benson 's weary spine , was done by her with sunny alacrity . 
But when one of the physicians had died , in consequence of his attendance -- when the customary staff of matrons and nurses had been swept off in two days -- and the nurses belonging to the Infirmary had shrunk from being drafted into the pestilential feverward -- when high wages had failed to tempt any to what , in their panic , they considered as certain death -- when the doctors stood aghast at the swift mortality among the untended sufferers , who were dependent only on the care of the most ignorant hirelings , too brutal to recognise the solemnity of Death -LRB- all this had happened within a week from the first acknowledgment of the presence of the plague -RRB- -- Ruth came one day , with a quieter step than usual , into Mr. Benson 's study , and told him she wanted to speak to him for a few minutes . 
said he ; for she was standing and leaning her head against the chimney-piece , idly gazing into the fire . 
She went on standing there , as if she had not heard his words ; and it was a few moments before she began to speak . 
Then she said : `` I want to tell you , that I have been this morning and offered myself as matron to the fever-ward while it is so full . 
`` Oh , Ruth ! 
Have you thought and weighed it enough , Ruth ? '' 
She was quite still for a moment , but her eyes grew full of tears . 
At last she said , very softly , with a kind of still solemnity : `` Yes ! 
Then Ruth said : `` I believe I have no fear . 
Oh , Mr. Benson , '' continued she , breaking out into the irrepressible tears -- `` Leonard , Leonard ! '' 
`` No , Ruth , he will not . 
`` I will not be afraid , '' she replied , lifting up her face , over which a bright light shone , as of God 's radiance . 
After a little pause , they began to arrange the manner of her going , and to speak about the length of time that she might be absent on her temporary duties . 
In talking of her return , they assumed it to be certain , although the exact time when was to them unknown , and would be dependent entirely on the duration of the fever ; but not the less , in their secret hearts , did they feel where alone the issue lay . 
Ruth was to communicate with Leonard and Miss Faith through Mr. Benson alone , who insisted on his determination to go every evening to the hospital to learn the proceedings of the day , and the state of Ruth 's health . 
All was settled with grave composure ; yet still Ruth lingered , as if nerving herself up for some effort . 
At length she said , with a faint smile upon her pale face : `` I believe I am a great coward . 
For only think , '' continued she , smiling through the tears that would gather in her eyes , `` what a comfort the remembrace of the last few words may be to the poor fellow , if -- '' The words were choked , but she smiled bravely on . 
said she , `` that must be done ; but perhaps you will spare me one thing -- will you tell Aunt Faith ? 
And calmly and gently did Ruth tell her boy of her purpose ; not daring even to use any unaccustomed tenderness of voice or gesture , lest , by so doing , she should alarm him unnecessarily as to the result . 
She spoke hopefully , and bade him be of good courage ; and he caught her bravery , though his , poor boy ! 
had root rather in his ignorance of the actual imminent danger than in her deep faith . 
When he had gone down , Ruth began to arrange her dress . 
When she came down-stairs she went into the old familiar garden and gathered a nosegay of the last lingering autumn flowers -- a few roses and the like . 
Mr. Benson had tutored his sister well ; and although Miss Faith 's face was swollen with crying , she spoke with almost exaggerated cheerfulness to Ruth . 
Ruth once or twice had roused herself to the pitch of saying `` Good-by , '' but when her eye fell on Leonard she was forced to hide the quivering of her lips , and conceal her trembling mouth amid the bunch of roses . 
`` No ; perhaps not , '' said Ruth , hurriedly . 
She gave the rest to him . 
It was her farewell ; for having now no veil to hide her emotion , she summoned all her bravery for one parting smile , and , smiling , turned away . 
But she gave one look back from the street , just from the last point at which the door could be seen , and catching a glimpse of Leonard standing foremost on the step , she ran back , and he met her half-way , and mother and child spoke never a word in that close embrace . 
But she was very near crying herself ; and she would have given way , I believe , if she had not found the wholesome outlet of scolding Sally , for expressing just the same opinion respecting Ruth 's proceedings as she herself had done not two hours before . 
Taking what her brother had said to her as a text , she delivered such a lecture to Sally on want of faith that she was astonished at herself , and so much affected by what she had said that she had to shut the door of communication between the kitchen and the parlour pretty hastily , in order to prevent Sally 's threatened reply from weakening her belief in the righteousness of what Ruth had done . 
Her words had gone beyond her conviction . 
Evening after evening Mr. Benson went forth to gain news of Ruth ; and night after night he returned with good tidings . 
The fever , it is true , raged ; but no plague came nigh her . 
He said her face was ever calm and bright , except when clouded by sorrow as she gave the accounts of the deaths which occurred in spite of every care . 
He said that he had never seen her face so fair and gentle as it was now , when she was living in the midst of disease and woe . 
Then they spoke of Ruth -- of his mother ; and Leonard held his breath to hear . 
Few were aware how much Ruth had done ; she never spoke of it , shrinking with sweet shyness from over-much allusion to her own work at all times . 
Her left hand truly knew not what her right hand did ; and Leonard was overwhelmed now to hear of the love and the reverence with which the poor and outcast had surrounded her . 
Many other wild , woe-begone creatures pressed forward with blessings on Ruth 's son , while he could only repeat : `` She is my mother . '' 
But the number of patients in the hospital was rapidly diminishing , and , for money , those were to be found who could supply Ruth 's place . 
But to her it was owing that the overwrought fear of the town was subdued ; it was she who had gone voluntarily , and , with no thought of greed or gain , right into the very jaws of the fierce disease . 
She bade the inmates of the hospital farewell , and after carefully submitting herself to the purification recommended by Mr. Davis , the principal surgeon of the place , who had always attended Leonard , she returned to Mr. Benson 's just at gloaming time . 
They hastened tea ; they wheeled the sofa to the fire ; they made her lie down ; and to all she submitted with the docility of a child ; and when the candles came , even Mr. Benson 's anxious eye could see no change in her looks , but that she seemed a little paler . 
The next morning , Miss Benson would insist upon making Ruth lie down on the sofa . 
Ruth longed to do many things ; to be much more active ; but she submitted , when she found that it would gratify Miss Faith if she remained as quiet as if she were really an invalid . 
Leonard sat by her holding her hand . 
Every now and then he looked up from his book , as if to make sure that she indeed was restored to him . 
He had brought her down the flowers which she had given him the day of her departure , and which he had kept in water as long as they had any greenness or fragrance , and then had carefully dried and put by . 
She too , smiling , had produced the one rose which she had carried away to the hospital . 
Never had the bond between her and her boy been drawn so firm and strong . 
They were softened by a mist of tears as she looked upon Ruth . 
Oh , Ruth ! 
Do you know , I taught Rosa to say her prayers as soon as ever you were gone to that horrid place , just on purpose that her little innocent lips might pray for you -- I wish you could hear her say it -- ` Please , dear God , keep Ruth safe . ' 
Jemima went on : `` Now , Ruth ! 
Ruth thought of the place . 
Her only reluctance arose from the remembrance of that one interview on the sands . 
That walk she could never go again ; but how much remained ! 
How much that would be a charming balm and refreshment to her ! 
Dear Ruth , it seems like an omen for the future ! '' 
Almost while she spoke , Miss Benson entered , bringing with her Mr. Grey , the rector of Eccleston . 
Ruth had seen him at the hospital once or twice , and Mrs. Farquhar had met him pretty frequently in general society . 
With all due emphasis he read aloud a formal letter from the Secretary to the Infirmary , conveying a vote of thanks to Ruth . 
The good rector did not spare her one word , from date to signature ; and then , folding the letter up , he gave it to Leonard , saying : `` There , sir ! 
I shall never forget the sensation of relief in my mind when she told us what she proposed to do ; but we thought it right to warn her to the full extent -- `` Nay , madam , '' said he , catching a glimpse of Ruth 's changing colour , `` I will spare you any more praises . 
Jemima came and kissed Ruth . 
Ruth went to her , and threw her arms round her neck , and said : `` I could not tell him just then . 
`` Under God , Ruth , '' said Miss Benson , speaking through her tears . 
Miss Benson , '' she continued , for she was anxious to turn the subject , `` you must be on my side , and persuade Ruth to come to Abermouth for a few weeks . 
I want her and Leonard both to come . '' 
`` Oh , as for lessons , Walter is so very anxious that you should give way to his superior wisdom , Ruth , and let Leonard go to school . 
`` I have no plan , '' said Ruth . 
`` Well , '' said Jemima , `` we must talk it over at Abermouth ; for I am sure you wo n't refuse to come , dearest , dear Ruth ! 
`` I do think of it , '' said Ruth , smiling at the happy picture Jemima drew . 
You 're well enough , '' continued she , surveying Ruth from head to foot ; `` you 're always trim and dainty in your gowns , though I reckon they cost but tuppence a yard , and you 've a face to set 'em off ; but as for you '' -LRB- as she turned to Miss Benson -RRB- , `` I think you might ha ' had something better on than that old stuff , if it had only been to do credit to a parishioner like me , whom he has known ever sin ' my father was his clerk . '' 
`` You might ha ' letten me do the jelly ; I ` se warrant I could ha ' pleased Ruth as well as you . 
What he came for , was to see Ruth ; and , as you say , she 's always neat and dainty . '' 
we 'll make that bargain , '' said Miss Benson ; `` and now , Ruth , I 'll go and fetch you a cup of warm jelly . '' 
indeed , Aunt Faith , '' said Ruth , `` I am very sorry to balk you ; but , if you 're going to treat me as an invalid , I am afraid I shall rebel . '' 
But when she found that Aunt Faith 's heart was set upon it , she submitted very graciously ; only dimpling up a little , as she found that she must consent to lie on the sofa , and be fed , when , in truth , she felt full of health , with a luxurious sensation of languor stealing over her now and then , just enough to make it very pleasant to think of the salt breezes , and the sea beauty which awaited her at Abermouth . 
Mr. Davis called in the afternoon , and his visit was also to Ruth . 
exclaimed Ruth ; `` what can I do for you ? 
Ruth could not speak ; for , even yet , she did not understand what he meant . 
He asked Ruth , but Miss Benson replied : `` He 'll be twelve next February . '' 
He said this last sentence as if to himself , but seeing Ruth crimson up , he abruptly changed his tone . 
`` I do n't know , '' faltered Ruth . 
`` It is so sudden -- '' `` It is very , very kind of you , Mr. Davis , '' said Miss Benson , a little scandalised at Ruth 's nonexpression of gratitude . 
Ruth lifted up her head . 
`` Mr. Davis , I am not ungrateful because I ca n't thank you '' -LRB- she was crying while she spoke -RRB- ; `` let me have a fortnight to consider about it . 
Ruth went very white at the remembrance . 
said Ruth . 
As Mr. Benson was showing Mr. Davis out , Ruth opened the study-door , and said , in a very calm , low voice : `` Mr. Benson ! 
Mr. Benson immediately consented , thinking that , in all probability , she wished to ask some further questions about Leonard ; but as Mr. Davis came into the room , and shut the door , he was struck by her pale , stern face of determination , and awaited her speaking first . 
I must go and nurse Mr. Bellingham , '' said she at last , clenching her hands tight together , but no other part of her body moving from its intense stillness . 
`` Mr. Donne , I mean , '' said she , hurriedly `` His name was Bellingham . '' 
`` I must go , '' she repeated . 
cried she , with sharp pain in her voice . 
said she , now speaking with soft entreaty . 
said she , dropping her voice , and going all over the deepest scarlet ; `` he is Leonard 's father ! 
Mr. Davis was indeed staggered by what she said , and for a moment he did not speak . 
So she went on : `` You will not tell ! 
For a moment or two she did not speak ; her head was bent down ; then she raised it up , and looked with clear and honest eyes into his face . 
repeated she , covering her face with her hands , and the quick hot tears stealing through her fingers . 
`` He is Leonard 's father , '' continued she , looking up at Mr. Davis suddenly . 
said Ruth , heavily . 
said Ruth , with dull persistency -- as if she had not attended to his dissuasions ; `` I must go . 
`` You will not tell my secret , Mr. Davis , '' she said , abruptly . 
He began recalling the circumstances of his own early life , and dreamily picturing scenes in the grey dying embers of the fire ; and he was almost startled when she stood before him , ready equipped , grave , pale , and quiet . 
The door opened , and Mr. Davis entered , followed by Ruth . 
She had gone up to the wild , raging figure , and with soft authority had made him lie down : and then , placing a basin of cold water by the bedside , she had dipped in it her pretty hands , and was laying their cool dampness on his hot brow , speaking in a low soothing voice all the time , in a way that acted like a charm in hushing his mad talk . 
Ruth was there , constant and still , intent upon watching the symptoms , and acting according to them , in obedience to Mr. Davis 's directions . 
She had never left the room . 
Now that Mr. Davis came and took her place , and that the room was quiet for the night , she became oppressed with heaviness , which yet did not tend to sleep . 
She could not remember the present time , or where she was . 
All times of her earliest youth -- the days of her childhood -- were in her memory with a minuteness and fulness of detail which was miserable ; for all along she felt that she had no real grasp on the scenes that were passing through her mind -- that , somehow , they were long gone by , and gone by for ever -- and yet she could not remember who she was now , nor where she was , and whether she had now any interests in life to take the place of those which she was conscious had passed away , although their remembrance filled her mind with painful acuteness . 
Her head lay on her arms , and they rested on the table . 
Every now and then she opened her eyes , and saw the large room , handsomely furnished with articles that were each one incongruous with the other , as if bought at sales . 
She saw the flickering night-light -- she heard the ticking of the watch , and the two breathings , each going on at a separate rate -- one hurried , abruptly stopping , and then panting violently , as if to make up for lost time ; and the other slow , steady and regular , as if the breather was asleep ; but this supposition was contradicted by an occasional repressed sound of yawning . 
It so happened that the rays of the lamp fell bright and full upon Ruth 's countenance , as she stood with her crimson lips parted with the hurrying breath , and the fever-flush brilliant on her cheeks . 
Her eyes were wide open , and their pupils distended . 
She looked on the invalid in silence , and hardly understood why Mr. Davis had summoned her there . 
But she did not speak ; her looks were riveted on his softly-unclosing eyes , which met hers as they opened languidly . 
She could not stir or speak . 
She was held fast by that gaze of his , in which a faint recognition dawned , and grew to strength . 
Mr. Davis drew Ruth away . 
The grey dawn was now filling the room with its cold light ; was it that made Ruth 's cheek so deadly pale ? 
Could that call out the wild entreaty of her look , as if imploring help against some cruel foe that held her fast , and was wrestling with her Spirit of Life ? 
She held Mr. Davis 's arm . 
If she had let it go , she would have fallen . 
`` Take me home , '' she said , and fainted dead away . 
Mr. Davis carried her out of the chamber , and sent the groom to keep watch by his master . 
He ordered a fly to convey her to Mr. Benson 's , and lifted her in when it came , for she was still half unconscious . 
It was he who carried her up-stairs to her room ; where Miss Benson and Sally undressed and laid her in her bed . 
What business had I to take her to nurse him -- '' He was cut short by Sally 's entrance , and announcement that Ruth was now prepared to see him . 
From that time forward Mr. Davis devoted all his leisure , his skill , his energy to save her . 
In spite of Mr. Davis 's real and deep anxiety about Ruth , he could not help chuckling over his rival 's literal interpretation of all he had said . 
Indeed , however much Mr. Davis might labour with all his professional skill -- however much they might all watch -- and pray -- and weep -- it was but too evident that Ruth `` home must go , and take her wages . '' 
Poor , poor Ruth ! 
It might be that , utterly exhausted by watching and nursing , first in the hospital , and then by the bedside of her former lover , the power of her constitution was worn out ; or , it might be , her gentle , pliant sweetness , but she displayed no outrage or discord even in her delirium . 
There she lay in the attic-room in which her baby had been born , her watch over him kept , her confession to him made ; and now she was stretched on the bed in utter helplessness , softly gazing at vacancy with her open , unconscious eyes , from which all the depth of their meaning had fled , and all they told was of a sweet , child-like insanity within . 
The watchers could not touch her with their sympathy , or come near her in her dim world ; -- so , mutely , but looking at each other from time to time with tearful eyes , they took a poor comfort from the one evident fact that , though lost and gone astray , she was happy and at peace . 
They had never heard her sing ; indeed the simple art which her mother had taught her , had died , with her early joyousness , at that dear mother 's death . 
But now she sang continually , very soft and low . 
She went from one old childish ditty to another without let or pause , keeping a strange sort of time with her pretty fingers , as they closed and unclosed themselves upon the counterpane . 
She never looked at any one with the slightest glimpse of memory or intelligence in her face ; no , not even at Leonard . 
Her strength faded day by day ; but she knew it not . 
Her sweet lips were parted to sing , even after the breath and the power to do so had left her , and her fingers fell idly on the bed . 
Two days she lingered thus -- all but gone from them , and yet still there . 
They stood around her bedside , not speaking , or sighing , or moaning ; they were too much awed by the exquisite peacefulness of her look for that . 
Suddenly she opened wide her eyes , and gazed intently forwards , as if she saw some happy vision , which called out a lovely , rapturous , breathless smile , They held their very breaths . 
`` I see the Light coming , '' said she . 
`` The Light is coming , '' she said . 
And , raising herself slowly , she stretched out her arms , and then fell back , very still for evermore . 
They had pent in his agony of apprehension till then , that no wail of her child might disturb her ineffable calm . 
But Ruth lay dead . 
The third day after Ruth 's death , a gentleman came to the door and asked to speak to Mr. Benson . 
asked she , in a trembling voice , for she had learnt who the visitor was from the driver of the fly , who had run up to the house to inquire what was detaining the gentleman that he had brought from the Queen 's Hotel ; and , knowing that Ruth had caught the fatal fever from her attendance on Mr. Donne , Sally imagined that it was but a piece of sad civility to invite him up-stairs to see the poor dead body , which she had laid out and decked for the grave , with such fond care that she had grown strangely proud of its marble beauty . 
He fancied that a change of place would banish the train of reflection that was troubling him ; but the change he anticipated was to a well-warmed , cheerful sitting-room , with signs of life , and a bright fire therein ; and he was on the last flight of stairs , -- at the door of the room where Ruth lay -- before he understood whither Sally was conducting him . 
He bowed in recognition of Mr. Donne , whom he knew as the member for the town , and whose presence impressed him painfully , as his illness had been the proximate cause of Ruth 's death . 
`` Poor Ruth ! '' 
Of course , if you decline retaining him , I must find some one else ; but the provision for him shall be the same , for my poor Ruth 's sake . '' 
I wish my last remembrance of my beautiful Ruth was not mixed up with all these people . '' 
His anger ruffled him , although such anger had been just , and such indignation well-deserved ; and both had been unconsciously present in his heart for years against the unknown seducer , whom he met face to face by the death-bed of Ruth . 
Ruth 's funeral passed over in calm and simple solemnity . 
Her child , her own household , her friend , and Mr. Farquhar , quietly walked after the bier , which was borne by some of the poor to whom she had been very kind in her lifetime . 
He looked , and , as he gazed , a mist came before him , and he could not see his sermon , nor his hearers , but only Ruth , as she had been -- stricken low , and crouching from sight , in the upland field by Llan-dhu -- like a woeful , hunted creature . 
And now her life was over ! 
her struggle ended ! 
They threaded their way among the grassy heaps to where Ruth was buried , in the south corner , beneath the great Wych-elm . 
