But , formed of such stuff as dreams are made of , what were they to the mansion of despair , in one corner of which Maria sat , endeavouring to recall her scattered thoughts ! 
Surprise , astonishment , that bordered on distraction , seemed to have suspended her faculties , till , waking by degrees to a keen sense of anguish , a whirlwind of rage and indignation roused her torpid pulse . 
One recollection with frightful velocity following another , threatened to fire her brain , and make her a fit companion for the terrific inhabitants , whose groans and shrieks were no unsubstantial sounds of whistling winds , or startled birds , modulated by a romantic fancy , which amuse while they affright ; but such tones of misery as carry a dreadful certainty directly to the heart . 
Her infant 's image was continually floating on Maria 's sight , and the first smile of intelligence remembered , as none but a mother , an unhappy mother , can conceive . 
From a stranger she could indeed receive the maternal aliment , Maria was grieved at the thought -- but who would watch her with a mother 's tenderness , a mother 's self-denial ? 
The retreating shadows of former sorrows rushed back in a gloomy train , and seemed to be pictured on the walls of her prison , magnified by the state of mind in which they were viewed -- Still she mourned for her child , lamented she was a daughter , and anticipated the aggravated ills of life that her sex rendered almost inevitable , even while dreading she was no more . 
To think that she was blotted out of existence was agony , when the imagination had been long employed to expand her faculties ; yet to suppose her turned adrift on an unknown sea , was scarcely less afflicting . 
After being two days the prey of impetuous , varying emotions , Maria began to reflect more calmly on her present situation , for she had actually been rendered incapable of sober reflection , by the discovery of the act of atrocity of which she was the victim . 
She could not have imagined , that , in all the fermentation of civilized depravity , a similar plot could have entered a human mind . 
She had been stunned by an unexpected blow ; yet life , however joyless , was not to be indolently resigned , or misery endured without exertion , and proudly termed patience . 
She had hitherto meditated only to point the dart of anguish , and suppressed the heart heavings of indignant nature merely by the force of contempt . 
Now she endeavoured to brace her mind to fortitude , and to ask herself what was to be her employment in her dreary cell ? 
Was it not to effect her escape , to fly to the succour of her child , and to baffle the selfish schemes of her tyrant -- her husband ? 
These thoughts roused her sleeping spirit , and the self-possession returned , that seemed to have abandoned her in the infernal solitude into which she had been precipitated . 
The first emotions of overwhelming impatience began to subside , and resentment gave place to tenderness , and more tranquil meditation ; though anger once more stopt the calm current of reflection , when she attempted to move her manacled arms . 
But this was an outrage that could only excite momentary feelings of scorn , which evaporated in a faint smile ; for Maria was far from thinking a personal insult the most difficult to endure with magnanimous indifference . 
She approached the small grated window of her chamber , and for a considerable time only regarded the blue expanse ; though it commanded a view of a desolate garden , and of part of a huge pile of buildings , that , after having been suffered , for half a century , to fall to decay , had undergone some clumsy repairs , merely to render it habitable . 
Maria contemplated this scene she knew not how long ; or rather gazed on the walls , and pondered on her situation . 
To the master of this most horrid of prisons , she had , soon after her entrance , raved of injustice , in accents that would have justified his treatment , had not a malignant smile , when she appealed to his judgment , with a dreadful conviction stifled her remonstrating complaints . 
A woman entered in the midst of these reflections , with a firm , deliberate step , strongly marked features , and large black eyes , which she fixed steadily on Maria 's , as if she designed to intimidate her , saying at the same time -- `` You had better sit down and eat your dinner , than look at the clouds . '' 
`` I have no appetite , '' replied Maria , who had previously determined to speak mildly ; `` why then should I eat ? '' 
asked Maria , meeting the searching glance of her eye . 
-- Maria sighed intelligibly . 
The attendant shook her head ; and a ghastly smile of desperate fortitude served as a forcible reply , and made Maria pause , before she added -- `` Yet I will take some refreshment : I mean not to die . 
Doubt gathered still thicker on the brow of her guard , as she attempted to convict her of mistake . 
exclaimed Maria , with a solemnity that inspired awe . 
A suffocation of voice betrayed the agonizing emotions she was labouring to keep down ; and conquering a qualm of disgust , she calmly endeavoured to eat enough to prove her docility , perpetually turning to the suspicious female , whose observation she courted , while she was making the bed and adjusting the room . 
`` Come to me often , '' said Maria , with a tone of persuasion , in consequence of a vague plan that she had hastily adopted , when , after surveying this woman 's form and features , she felt convinced that she had an understanding above the common standard ; `` and believe me mad , till you are obliged to acknowledge the contrary . '' 
The manner , rather than the expostulations , of Maria made a slight suspicion dart into her mind with corresponding sympathy , which various other avocations , and the habit of banishing compunction , prevented her , for the present , from examining more minutely . 
But when she was told that no person , excepting the physician appointed by her family , was to be permitted to see the lady at the end of the gallery , she opened her keen eyes still wider , and uttered a -- `` hem ! '' 
before she enquired -- `` Why ? '' 
She was briefly told , in reply , that the malady was hereditary , and the fits not occurring but at very long and irregular intervals , she must be carefully watched ; for the length of these lucid periods only rendered her more mischievous , when any vexation or caprice brought on the paroxysm of phrensy . 
Had her master trusted her , it is probable that neither pity nor curiosity would have made her swerve from the straight line of her interest ; for she had suffered too much in her intercourse with mankind , not to determine to look for support , rather to humouring their passions , than courting their approbation by the integrity of her conduct . 
A deadly blight had met her at the very threshold of existence ; and the wretchedness of her mother seemed a heavy weight fastened on her innocent neck , to drag her down to perdition . 
She could not heroically determine to succour an unfortunate ; but , offended at the bare supposition that she could be deceived with the same ease as a common servant , she no longer curbed her curiosity ; and , though she never seriously fathomed her own intentions , she would sit , every moment she could steal from observation , listening to the tale , which Maria was eager to relate with all the persuasive eloquence of grief . 
It is so cheering to see a human face , even if little of the divinity of virtue beam in it , that Maria anxiously expected the return of the attendant , as of a gleam of light to break the gloom of idleness . 
Indulged sorrow , she perceived , must blunt or sharpen the faculties to the two opposite extremes ; producing stupidity , the moping melancholy of indolence ; or the restless activity of a disturbed imagination . 
She sunk into one state , after being fatigued by the other : till the want of occupation became even more painful than the actual pressure or apprehension of sorrow ; and the confinement that froze her into a nook of existence , with an unvaried prospect before her , the most insupportable of evils . 
-- And to what purpose did she rally all her energy ? 
Though she failed immediately to rouse a lively sense of injustice in the mind of her guard , because it had been sophisticated into misanthropy , she touched her heart . 
Jemima -LRB- she had only a claim to a Christian name , which had not procured her any Christian privileges -RRB- could patiently hear of Maria 's confinement on false pretences ; she had felt the crushing hand of power , hardened by the exercise of injustice , and ceased to wonder at the perversions of the understanding , which systematize oppression ; but , when told that her child , only four months old , had been torn from her , even while she was discharging the tenderest maternal office , the woman awoke in a bosom long estranged from feminine emotions , and Jemima determined to alleviate all in her power , without hazarding the loss of her place , the sufferings of a wretched mother , apparently injured , and certainly unhappy . 
Hearing Maria perpetually complain of listlessness , and the not being able to beguile grief by resuming her customary pursuits , she was easily prevailed on , by compassion , and that involuntary respect for abilities , which those who possess them can never eradicate , to bring her some books and implements for writing . 
Maria 's conversation had amused and interested her , and the natural consequence was a desire , scarcely observed by herself , of obtaining the esteem of a person she admired . 
The remembrance of better days was rendered more lively ; and the sentiments then acquired appearing less romantic than they had for a long period , a spark of hope roused her mind to new activity . 
How grateful was her attention to Maria ! 
Oppressed by a dead weight of existence , or preyed on by the gnawing worm of discontent , with what eagerness did she endeavour to shorten the long days , which left no traces behind ! 
She seemed to be sailing on the vast ocean of life , without seeing any land-mark to indicate the progress of time ; to find employment was then to find variety , the animating principle of nature . 
Earnestly as Maria endeavoured to soothe , by reading , the anguish of her wounded mind , her thoughts would often wander from the subject she was led to discuss , and tears of maternal tenderness obscured the reasoning page . 
She descanted on `` the ills which flesh is heir to , '' with bitterness , when the recollection of her babe was revived by a tale of fictitious woe , that bore any resemblance to her own ; and her imagination was continually employed , to conjure up and embody the various phantoms of misery , which folly and vice had let loose on the world . 
The loss of her babe was the tender string ; against other cruel remembrances she laboured to steel her bosom ; and even a ray of hope , in the midst of her gloomy reveries , would sometimes gleam on the dark horizon of futurity , while persuading herself that she ought to cease to hope , since happiness was no where to be found . 
-- But of her child , debilitated by the grief with which its mother had been assailed before it saw the light , she could not think without an impatient struggle . 
Though this employment lightened the weight of time , yet , never losing sight of her main object , Maria did not allow any opportunity to slip of winning on the affections of Jemima ; for she discovered in her a strength of mind , that excited her esteem , clouded as it was by the misanthropy of despair . 
This general view of her life , Maria gathered from her exclamations and dry remarks . 
Maria alluded to the possibility of an escape , and mentioned a compensation , or reward ; but the style in which she was repulsed made her cautious , and determine not to renew the subject , till she knew more of the character she had to work on . 
Nay , the very energy of Maria 's character , made her suspect that the extraordinary animation she perceived might be the effect of madness . 
Maria was not permitted to walk in the garden ; but sometimes , from her window , she turned her eyes from the gloomy walls , in which she pined life away , on the poor wretches who strayed along the walks , and contemplated the most terrific of ruins -- that of a human soul . 
Thus thought Maria -- These are the ravages over which humanity must ever mournfully ponder , with a degree of anguish not excited by crumbling marble , or cankering brass , unfaithful to the trust of monumental fame . 
The playful tricks and mischievous devices of their disturbed fancy , that suddenly broke out , could not be guarded against , when they were permitted to enjoy any portion of freedom ; for , so active was their imagination , that every new object which accidentally struck their senses , awoke to phrenzy their restless passions ; as Maria learned from the burden of their incessant ravings . 
Sometimes , with a strict injunction of silence , Jemima would allow Maria , at the close of evening , to stray along the narrow avenues that separated the dungeon-like apartments , leaning on her arm . 
Maria wished to pass the threshold of her prison , yet , when by chance she met the eye of rage glaring on her , yet unfaithful to its office , she shrunk back with more horror and affright , than if she had stumbled over a mangled corpse . 
Her busy fancy pictured the misery of a fond heart , watching over a friend thus estranged , absent , though present -- over a poor wretch lost to reason and the social joys of existence ; and losing all consciousness of misery in its excess . 
Day after day rolled away , and tedious as the present moment appeared , they passed in such an unvaried tenor , Maria was surprised to find that she had already been six weeks buried alive , and yet had such faint hopes of effecting her enlargement . 
She was , earnestly as she had sought for employment , now angry with herself for having been amused by writing her narrative ; and grieved to think that she had for an instant thought of any thing , but contriving to escape . 
Jemima had evidently pleasure in her society : still , though she often left her with a glow of kindness , she returned with the same chilling air ; and , when her heart appeared for a moment to open , some suggestion of reason forcibly closed it , before she could give utterance to the confidence Maria 's conversation inspired . 
Discouraged by these changes , Maria relapsed into despondency , when she was cheered by the alacrity with which Jemima brought her a fresh parcel of books ; assuring her , that she had taken some pains to obtain them from one of the keepers , who attended a gentleman confined in the opposite corner of the gallery . 
Maria took up the books with emotion . 
`` They come , '' said she , `` perhaps , from a wretch condemned , like me , to reason on the nature of madness , by having wrecked minds continually under his eye ; and almost to wish himself -- as I do -- mad , to escape from the contemplation of it . '' 
Her heart throbbed with sympathetic alarm ; and she turned over the leaves with awe , as if they had become sacred from passing through the hands of an unfortunate being , oppressed by a similar fate . 
Some marginal notes , in Dryden 's Fables , caught her attention : they were written with force and taste ; and , in one of the modern pamphlets , there was a fragment left , containing various observations on the present state of society and government , with a comparative view of the politics of Europe and America . 
These remarks were written with a degree of generous warmth , when alluding to the enslaved state of the labouring majority , perfectly in unison with Maria 's mode of thinking . 
She read them over and over again ; and fancy , treacherous fancy , began to sketch a character , congenial with her own , from these shadowy outlines . 
She re-perused the marginal notes , and they seemed the production of an animated , but not of a disturbed imagination . 
Confined to this speculation , every time she re-read them , some fresh refinement of sentiment , or acuteness of thought impressed her , which she was astonished at herself for not having before observed . 
Maria had often thought , when disciplining her wayward heart , `` that to charm , was to be virtuous . '' 
`` They who make me wish to appear the most amiable and good in their eyes , must possess in a degree , '' she would exclaim , `` the graces and virtues they call into action . '' 
She took up a book on the powers of the human mind ; but , her attention strayed from cold arguments on the nature of what she felt , while she was feeling , and she snapt the chain of the theory to read Dryden 's Guiscard and Sigismunda . 
Maria , in the course of the ensuing day , returned some of the books , with the hope of getting others -- and more marginal notes . 
asked Maria , when Jemima brought her supper . 
enquired Maria , with an accent of disappointment . 
`` If he be so strong , he must be young , '' observed Maria . 
interrupted Maria with eagerness . 
exclaimed Maria , answering herself ; `` the man who could write those observations was not disordered in his intellects . '' 
She sat musing , gazing at the moon , and watching its motion as it seemed to glide under the clouds . 
Then , preparing for bed , she thought , `` Of what use could I be to him , or he to me , if it be true that he is unjustly confined ? 
She went to bed , dreamed of her child , yet woke exactly at half after five o'clock , and starting up , only wrapped a gown around her , and ran to the window . 
The morning was chill , it was the latter end of September ; yet she did not retire to warm herself and think in bed , till the sound of the servants , moving about the house , convinced her that the unknown would not walk in the garden that morning . 
She was ashamed at feeling disappointed ; and began to reflect , as an excuse to herself , on the little objects which attract attention when there is nothing to divert the mind ; and how difficult it was for women to avoid growing romantic , who have no active duties or pursuits . 
Maria replied in the affirmative ; but forbore to ask any more questions respecting the person to whom they belonged . 
Jemima had half-opened the door , when she distinguished her voice , and Maria stood close to it , scarcely daring to respire , lest a modulation should escape her , so exquisitely sweet , so passionately wild . 
She began with sympathy to pourtray to herself another victim , when the lovely warbler flew , as it were , from the spray , and a torrent of unconnected exclamations and questions burst from her , interrupted by fits of laughter , so horrid , that Maria shut the door , and , turning her eyes up to heaven , exclaimed -- `` Gracious God ! '' 
Several minutes elapsed before Maria could enquire respecting the rumour of the house -LRB- for this poor wretch was obviously not confined without a cause -RRB- ; and then Jemima could only tell her , that it was said , `` she had been married , against her inclination , to a rich old man , extremely jealous -LRB- no wonder , for she was a charming creature -RRB- ; and that , in consequence of his treatment , or something which hung on her mind , she had , during her first lying-in , lost her senses . '' 
thought Maria , while the poor maniac 's strain was still breathing on her ear , and sinking into her very soul . 
One instance of her kindness was , the permitting Maria to have one , till her own hour of retiring to rest . 
She had read this work long since ; but now it seemed to open a new world to her -- the only one worth inhabiting . 
Sleep was not to be wooed ; yet , far from being fatigued by the restless rotation of thought , she rose and opened her window , just as the thin watery clouds of twilight made the long silent shadows visible . 
The air swept across her face with a voluptuous freshness that thrilled to her heart , awakening indefinable emotions ; and the sound of a waving branch , or the twittering of a startled bird , alone broke the stillness of reposing nature . 
Absorbed by the sublime sensibility which renders the consciousness of existence felicity , Maria was happy , till an autumnal scent , wafted by the breeze of morn from the fallen leaves of the adjacent wood , made her recollect that the season had changed since her confinement ; yet life afforded no variety to solace an afflicted heart . 
She returned dispirited to her couch , and thought of her child till the broad glare of day again invited her to the window . 
She looked not for the unknown , still how great was her vexation at perceiving the back of a man , certainly he , with his two attendants , as he turned into a side-path which led to the house ! 
A confused recollection of having seen somebody who resembled him , immediately occurred , to puzzle and torment her with endless conjectures . 
Five minutes sooner , and she should have seen his face , and been out of suspense -- was ever any thing so unlucky ! 
His steady , bold step , and the whole air of his person , bursting as it were from a cloud , pleased her , and gave an outline to the imagination to sketch the individual form she wished to recognize . 
Feeling the disappointment more severely than she was willing to believe , she flew to Rousseau , as her only refuge from the idea of him , who might prove a friend , could she but find a way to interest him in her fate ; still the personification of Saint Preux , or of an ideal lover far superior , was after this imperfect model , of which merely a glance had been caught , even to the minutiæ of the coat and hat of the stranger . 
But if she lent St. Preux , or the demi-god of her fancy , his form , she richly repaid him by the donation of all St. Preux 's sentiments and feelings , culled to gratify her own , to which he seemed to have an undoubted right , when she read on the margin of an impassioned letter , written in the well-known hand -- `` Rousseau alone , the true Prometheus of sentiment , possessed the fire of genius necessary to pourtray the passion , the truth of which goes so directly to the heart . '' 
Maria was again true to the hour , yet had finished Rousseau , and begun to transcribe some selected passages ; unable to quit either the author or the window , before she had a glimpse of the countenance she daily longed to see ; and , when seen , it conveyed no distinct idea to her mind where she had seen it before . 
He must have been a transient acquaintance ; but to discover an acquaintance was fortunate , could she contrive to attract his attention , and excite his sympathy . 
Every glance afforded colouring for the picture she was delineating on her heart ; and once , when the window was half open , the sound of his voice reached her . 
Conviction flashed on her ; she had certainly , in a moment of distress , heard the same accents . 
They were manly , and characteristic of a noble mind ; nay , even sweet -- or sweet they seemed to her attentive ear . 
She started back , trembling , alarmed at the emotion a strange coincidence of circumstances inspired , and wondering why she thought so much of a stranger , obliged as she had been by his timely interference ; -LSB- for she recollected , by degrees , all the circumstances of their former meeting . -RSB- 
She found however that she could think of nothing else ; or , if she thought of her daughter , it was to wish that she had a father whom her mother could respect and love . 
When perusing the first parcel of books , Maria had , with her pencil , written in one of them a few exclamations , expressive of compassion and sympathy , which she scarcely remembered , till turning over the leaves of one of the volumes , lately brought to her , a slip of paper dropped out , which Jemima hastily snatched up . 
`` Let me see it , '' demanded Maria impatiently , `` You surely are not afraid of trusting me with the effusions of a madman ? '' 
`` I must consider , '' replied Jemima ; and withdrew , with the paper in her hand . 
In a life of such seclusion , the passions gain undue force ; Maria therefore felt a great degree of resentment and vexation , which she had not time to subdue , before Jemima , returning , delivered the paper . 
By the most pressing intreaties , Maria prevailed on Jemima to permit her to write a reply to this note . 
Another and another succeeded , in which explanations were not allowed relative to their present situation ; but Maria , with sufficient explicitness , alluded to a former obligation ; and they insensibly entered on an interchange of sentiments on the most important subjects . 
By some means , Darnford having discovered Maria 's window , when she next appeared at it , he made her , behind his keepers , a profound bow of respect and recognition . 
Two or three weeks glided away in this kind of intercourse , during which period Jemima , to whom Maria had given the necessary information respecting her family , had evidently gained some intelligence , which increased her desire of pleasing her charge , though she could not yet determine to liberate her . 
Maria took advantage of this favourable charge , without too minutely enquiring into the cause ; and such was her eagerness to hold human converse , and to see her former protector , still a stranger to her , that she incessantly requested her guard to gratify her more than curiosity . 
Writing to Darnford , she was led from the sad objects before her , and frequently rendered insensible to the horrid noises around her , which previously had continually employed her feverish fancy . 
Thinking it selfish to dwell on her own sufferings , when in the midst of wretches , who had not only lost all that endears life , but their very selves , her imagination was occupied with melancholy earnestness to trace the mazes of misery , through which so many wretches must have passed to this gloomy receptacle of disjointed souls , to the grand source of human corruption . 
Often at midnight was she waked by the dismal shrieks of demoniac rage , or of excruciating despair , uttered in such wild tones of indescribable anguish as proved the total absence of reason , and roused phantoms of horror in her mind , far more terrific than all that dreaming superstition ever drew . 
It was the uproar of the passions which she was compelled to observe ; and to mark the lucid beam of reason , like a light trembling in a socket , or like the flash which divides the threatening clouds of angry heaven only to display the horrors which darkness shrouded . 
Jemima would labour to beguile the tedious evenings , by describing the persons and manners of the unfortunate beings , whose figures or voices awoke sympathetic sorrow in Maria 's bosom ; and the stories she told were the more interesting , for perpetually leaving room to conjecture something extraordinary . 
Still Maria , accustomed to generalize her observations , was led to conclude from all she heard , that it was a vulgar error to suppose that people of abilities were the most apt to lose the command of reason . 
On the contrary , from most of the instances she could investigate , she thought it resulted , that the passions only appeared strong and disproportioned , because the judgment was weak and unexercised ; and that they gained strength by the decay of reason , as the shadows lengthen during the sun 's decline . 
Maria impatiently wished to see her fellow-sufferer ; but Darnford was still more earnest to obtain an interview . 
His travelling trunk , which contained the books lent to Maria , had been sent to him , and with a part of its contents he bribed his principal keeper ; who , after receiving the most solemn promise that he would return to his apartment without attempting to explore any part of the house , conducted him , in the dusk of the evening , to Maria 's room . 
I imagine sometimes that I hear the sea roar , and wished myself again on the Atlantic , till I had a glimpse of youThe introduction of Darnford as the deliverer of Maria in a former instance , appears to have been an after-thought of the author . 
A few moments were only allowed to Maria to comment on this narrative , when Darnford left her to her own thoughts , to the `` never ending , still beginning , '' task of weighing his words , recollecting his tones of voice , and feeling them reverberate on her heart . 
Pity , and the forlorn seriousness of adversity , have both been considered as dispositions favourable to love , while satirical writers have attributed the propensity to the relaxing effect of idleness ; what chance then had Maria of escaping , when pity , sorrow , and solitude all conspired to soften her mind , and nourish romantic wishes , and , from a natural progress , romantic expectations ? 
Maria was six-and-twenty . 
But , such was the native soundness of her constitution , that time had only given to her countenance the character of her mind . 
Grief and care had mellowed , without obscuring , the bright tints of youth , and the thoughtfulness which resided on her brow did not take from the feminine softness of her features ; nay , such was the sensibility which often mantled over it , that she frequently appeared , like a large proportion of her sex , only born to feel ; and the activity of her well-proportioned , and even almost voluptuous figure , inspired the idea of strength of mind , rather than of body . 
There was a simplicity sometimes indeed in her manner , which bordered on infantine ingenuousness , that led people of common discernment to underrate her talents , and smile at the flights of her imagination . 
But those who could not comprehend the delicacy of her sentiments , were attached by her unfailing sympathy , so that she was very generally beloved by characters of very different descriptions ; still , she was too much under the influence of an ardent imagination to adhere to common rules . 
Having had to struggle incessantly with the vices of mankind , Maria 's imagination found repose in pourtraying the possible virtues the world might contain . 
We mean not to trace the progress of this passion , or recount how often Darnford and Maria were obliged to part in the midst of an interesting conversation . 
A magic lamp now seemed to be suspended in Maria 's prison , and fairy landscapes flitted round the gloomy walls , late so blank . 
Rushing from the depth of despair , on the seraph wing of hope , she found herself happy . 
-- She was beloved , and every emotion was rapturous . 
To Darnford she had not shown a decided affection ; the fear of outrunning his , a sure proof of love , made her often assume a coldness and indifference foreign from her character ; and , even when giving way to the playful emotions of a heart just loosened from the frozen bond of grief , there was a delicacy in her manner of expressing her sensibility , which made him doubt whether it was the effect of love . 
One evening , when Jemima left them , to listen to the sound of a distant footstep , which seemed cautiously to approach , he seized Maria 's hand -- it was not withdrawn . 
They conversed with earnestness of their situation ; and , during the conversation , he once or twice gently drew her towards him . 
He felt the fragrance of her breath , and longed , yet feared , to touch the lips from which it issued ; spirits of purity seemed to guard them , while all the enchanting graces of love sported on her cheeks , and languished in her eyes . 
Jemima entering , he reflected on his diffidence with poignant regret , and , she once more taking alarm , he ventured , as Maria stood near his chair , to approach her lips with a declaration of love . 
She drew back with solemnity , he hung down his head abashed ; but lifting his eyes timidly , they met her 's ; she had determined , during that instant , and suffered their rays to mingle . 
He took , with more ardour , reassured , a half-consenting , half-reluctant kiss , reluctant only from modesty ; and there was a sacredness in her dignified manner of reclining her glowing face on his shoulder , that powerfully impressed him . 
Desire was lost in more ineffable emotions , and to protect her from insult and sorrow -- to make her happy , seemed not only the first wish of his heart , but the most noble duty of his life . 
Such angelic confidence demanded the fidelity of honour ; but could he , feeling her in every pulsation , could he ever change , could he be a villain ? 
The emotion with which she , for a moment , allowed herself to be pressed to his bosom , the tear of rapturous sympathy , mingled with a soft melancholy sentiment of recollected disappointment , said -- more of truth and faithfulness , than the tongue could have given utterance to in hours ! 
till , after a moment 's reflection , Maria drew her chair by the side of his , and , with a composed sweetness of voice , and supernatural benignity of countenance , said , `` I must open my whole heart to you ; you must be told who I am , why I am here , and why , telling you I am a wife , I blush not to '' -- the blush spoke the rest . 
She wiped it away , half ashamed ; and when Maria kindly enquired the cause , with all the eager solicitude of a happy being wishing to impart to all nature its overflowing felicity , Jemima owned that it was the first tear that social enjoyment had ever drawn from her . 
A despondent gloom had long obscured Maria 's horizon -- now the sun broke forth , the rainbow appeared , and every prospect was fair . 
`` No more can I , '' interrupted Maria ; `` yet they even expatiate on the peculiar happiness of indigence , though in what it can consist , excepting in brutal rest , when a man can barely earn a subsistence , I can not imagine . 
`` And as for the affections , '' added Maria , with a sigh , `` how gross , and even tormenting do they become , unless regulated by an improving mind ! 
Alarmed by some indistinct noise , Jemima rose hastily to listen , and Maria , turning to Darnford , said , `` I have indeed been shocked beyond expression when I have met a pauper 's funeral . 
-- Maria took her hand , and Jemima , more overcome by kindness than she had ever been by cruelty , hastened out of the room to conceal her emotions . 
Darnford soon after heard his summons , and , taking leave of him , Maria promised to gratify his curiosity , with respect to herself , the first opportunity . 
Active as love was in the heart of Maria , the story she had just heard made her thoughts take a wider range . 
The opening buds of hope closed , as if they had put forth too early , and the happiest day of her life was overcast by the most melancholy reflections . 
Maria thought , and thought again . 
Jemima 's humanity had rather been benumbed than killed , by the keen frost she had to brave at her entrance into life ; an appeal then to her feelings , on this tender point , surely would not be fruitless ; and Maria began to anticipate the delight it would afford her to gain intelligence of her child . 
This project was now the only subject of reflection ; and she watched impatiently for the dawn of day , with that determinate purpose which generally insures success . 
While Jemima waited to take away the breakfast , Maria alluded to the reflections , that had haunted her during the night to the exclusion of sleep . 
She spoke with energy of Jemima 's unmerited sufferings , and of the fate of a number of deserted females , placed within the sweep of a whirlwind , from which it was next to impossible to escape . 
Her manner implied an intention to do something more , but she seemed unwilling to impart her design ; and Maria , glad to have obtained the main point , thought it best to leave her to the workings of her own mind ; convinced that she had the power of interesting her still more in favour of herself and child , by a simple recital of facts . 
Maria uttered was peculiarly solemn and affectionate . 
Glad expectation sparkled in her eye ; and , for the first time since her detention , she pronounced the name of her child with pleasureable fondness ; and , with all the garrulity of a nurse , described her first smile when she recognized her mother . 
Such was the ferocity of manner , conspicuous in every word and gesture of this hag , that Maria was afraid to enquire , why Jemima , who had faithfully promised to see her before her door was shut for the night , came not ? 
Maria took up a cup with trembling hand , then forcibly recovering her fortitude , and restraining the convulsive movement which agitated the muscles of her mouth , she said , `` Spare yourself the pain of preparing me for your information , I adjure you ! 
`` Leave me , '' added Maria , making a fresh effort to govern her feelings , and hiding her face in her handkerchief , to conceal her anguish -- `` It is enough -- I know that my babe is no more -- I will hear the particulars when I am '' -- calmer , she could not utter ; and Jemima , without importuning her by idle attempts to console her , left the room . 
An advertisement quickly met my eye , purporting , that ` Maria Venables had , without any assignable cause , absconded from her husband ; and any person harbouring her , was menaced with the utmost severity of the law . ' 
The tumult on the landing place , brought out a gentleman , who had recently taken apartments in the house ; he enquired why I was thus assailed The introduction of Darnford as the deliverer of Maria , in an early stage of the history , is already stated -LRB- Chap . 
The introduction of Darnford as the deliverer of Maria , in an early stage of the history , is already stated -LRB- Chap . 
``` Not by her husband ? ' 
``` No , sir , not by her husband . ' 
Darnford returned the memoirs to Maria , with a most affectionate letter , in which he reasoned on `` the absurdity of the laws respecting matrimony , which , till divorces could be more easily obtained , was , '' he declared , `` the most insufferable bondage . 
He was ; and the tear which glistened in his eye , when he respectfully pressed her to his bosom , rendered him peculiarly dear to the unfortunate mother . 
-- What could have been more flattering to Maria ? 
-- Every instance of self-denial was registered in her heart , and she loved him , for loving her too well to give way to the transports of passion . 
-- One morning Jemima informed Maria , that her master intended to wait on her , and speak to her without witnesses . 
Maria answered with warmth , `` That she had no terms to make with the murderer of her babe , nor would she purchase liberty at the price of her own respect . '' 
She began to expostulate with her jailor ; but he sternly bade her `` Be silent -- he had not gone so far , not to go further . '' 
-- There was one peculiarity in Maria 's mind : she was more anxious not to deceive , than to guard against deception ; and had rather trust without sufficient reason , than be for ever the prey of doubt . 
Maria now , imagining that she had found a being of celestial mould -- was happy , -- nor was she deceived . 
-- He was then plastic in her impassioned hand -- and reflected all the sentiments which animated and warmed her . 
One morning confusion seemed to reign in the house , and Jemima came in terror , to inform Maria , `` that her master had left it , with a determination , she was assured -LRB- and too many circumstances corroborated the opinion , to leave a doubt of its truth -RRB- of never returning . 
Maria started up , her eyes darting towards the door , as if afraid that some one should fasten it on her for ever . 
-- exclaimed Maria , mournfully -- sitting down again , and crossing her arms -- `` I have no child to go to , and liberty has lost its sweets . '' 
In an agitation of spirit , not to be calmed , Maria began to write to Darnford . 
She called him by the sacred name of `` husband , '' and bade him `` hasten to her , to share her fortune , or she would return to him . '' 
The letter was sealed and given in charge ; and with light footsteps , yet terrified at the sound of them , she descended , scarcely breathing , and with an indistinct fear that she should never get out at the garden gate . 
A being , with a visage that would have suited one possessed by a devil , crossed the path , and seized Maria by the arm . 
Maria had no fear but of being detained -- `` Who are you ? 
`` If you are made of flesh and blood , '' his ghastly eyes glared on her , `` do not stop me ! '' 
-- Still he grasped her hand , muttering a curse . 
`` No , no ; you have nothing to do with me , '' she exclaimed , `` this is a moment of life and death ! '' 
-- With supernatural force she broke from him , and , throwing her arms round Jemima , cried , `` Save me ! '' 
The being , from whose grasp she had loosed herself , took up a stone as they opened the door , and with a kind of hellish sport threw it after them . 
When Maria arrived in town , she drove to the hotel already fixed on . 
But she could not sit still -- her child was ever before her ; and all that had passed during her confinement , appeared to be a dream . 
She went to the house in the suburbs , where , as she now discovered , her babe had been sent . 
The moment she entered , her heart grew sick ; but she wondered not that it had proved its grave . 
She made the necessary enquiries , and the church-yard was pointed out , in which it rested under a turf . 
A little frock which the nurse 's child wore -LRB- Maria had made it herself -RRB- caught her eye . 
The nurse was glad to sell it for half-a-guinea , and Maria hastened away with the relic , and , re-entering the hackney-coach which waited for her , gazed on it , till she reached her hotel . 
She then waited on the attorney who had made her uncle 's will , and explained to him her situation . 
He readily advanced her some of the money which still remained in his hands , and promised to take the whole of the case into consideration . 
Maria only wished to be permitted to remain in quiet -- She found that several bills , apparently with her signature , had been presented to her agent , nor was she for a moment at a loss to guess by whom they had been forged ; yet , equally averse to threaten or intreat , she requested her friend -LSB- the solicitor -RSB- to call on Mr. Venables . 
He was not to be found at home ; but at length his agent , the attorney , offered a conditional promise to Maria , to leave her in peace , as long as she behaved with propriety , if she would give up the notes . 
Maria inconsiderately consented -- Darnford was arrived , and she wished to be only alive to love ; she wished to forget the anguish she felt whenever she thought of her child . 
They took a ready-furnished lodging together , for she was above disguise ; Jemima insisting on being considered as her house-keeper , and to receive the customary stipend . 
Maria and he determined therefore , with the faithful Jemima , to visit that metropolis , and accordingly were preparing for the journey , when they were informed that Mr. Venables had commenced an action against Darnford for seduction and adultery . 
The indignation Maria felt can not be explained ; she repented of the forbearance she had exercised in giving up the notes . 
Darnford could not put off his journey , without risking the loss of his property : Maria therefore furnished him with money for his expedition ; and determined to remain in London till the termination of this affair . 
She visited some ladies with whom she had formerly been intimate , but was refused admittance ; and at the opera , or Ranelagh , they could not recollect her . 
Among these ladies there were some , not her most intimate acquaintance , who were generally supposed to avail themselves of the cloke of marriage , to conceal a mode of conduct , that would for ever have damned their fame , had they been innocent , seduced girls . 
-- Had she remained with her husband , practising insincerity , and neglecting her child to manage an intrigue , she would still have been visited and respected . 
If , instead of openly living with her lover , she could have condescended to call into play a thousand arts , which , degrading her own mind , might have allowed the people who were not deceived , to pretend to be so , she would have been caressed and treated like an honourable woman . 
With Darnford she did not taste uninterrupted felicity ; there was a volatility in his manner which often distressed her ; but love gladdened the scene ; besides , he was the most tender , sympathizing creature in the world . 
Darnford appeared ever willing to avail himself of her taste and acquirements , while she endeavoured to profit by his decision of character , and to eradicate some of the romantic notions , which had taken root in her mind , while in adversity she had brooded over visions of unattainable bliss . 
Maria found herself more indulgent as she was happier , and discovered virtues , in characters she had before disregarded , while chasing the phantoms of elegance and excellence , which sported in the meteors that exhale in the marshes of misfortune . 
-- It was to feel most painfully alone ; but she rejoiced to think , that she should spare him the care and perplexity of the suit , and meet him again , all his own . 
Marriage , as at present constituted , she considered as leading to immorality -- yet , as the odium of society impedes usefulness , she wished to avow her affection to Darnford , by becoming his wife according to established rules ; not to be confounded with women who act from very different motives , though her conduct would be just the same without the ceremony as with it , and her expectations from him not less firm . 
The being summoned to defend herself from a charge which she was determined to plead guilty to , was still galling , as it roused bitter reflections on the situation of women in society . 
Such was her state of mind when the dogs of law were let loose on her . 
Maria took the task of conducting Darnford 's defence upon herself . 
She instructed his counsel to plead guilty to the charge of adultery ; but to deny that of seduction . 
A strong sense of injustice had silenced every emotion , which a mixture of true and false delicacy might otherwise have excited in Maria 's bosom . 
She only felt in earnest to insist on the privilege of her nature . 
The sarcasms of society , and the condemnation of a mistaken world , were nothing to her , compared with acting contrary to those feelings which were the foundation of her principles . 
-LSB- She therefore eagerly put herself forward , instead of desiring to be absent , on this memorable occasion . -RSB- 
Convinced that the subterfuges of the law were disgraceful , she wrote a paper , which she expressly desired might be read in court : `` Married when scarcely able to distinguish the nature of the engagement , I yet submitted to the rigid laws which enslave women , and obeyed the man whom I could no longer love . 
`` Darnford 's letters were affectionate ; but circumstances occasioned delays , and the miscarriage of some letters rendered the reception of wished-for answers doubtful : his return was necessary to calm Maria 's mind . '' 
`` As Darnford had informed her that his business was settled , his delaying to return seemed extraordinary ; but love to excess , excludes fear or suspicion . '' 
`` Trial for adultery -- Maria defends herself -- A separation from bed and board is the consequence -- Her fortune is thrown into chancery -- Darnford obtains a part of his property -- Maria goes into the country . '' 
`` Sued by her husband -- Damages awarded to him -- Separation from bed and board -- Darnford goes abroad -- Maria into the country -- Provides for her father -- Is shunned -- Returns to London -- Expects to see her lover -- The rack of expectation -- Finds herself again with child -- Delighted -- A discovery -- A visit -- A miscarriage -- Conclusion . '' 
`` Divorced by her husband -- Her lover unfaithful -- Pregnancy -- Miscarriage -- Suicide . '' 
It is superscribed -RSB- , `` She swallowed the laudanum ; her soul was calm -- the tempest had subsided -- and nothing remained but an eager longing to forget herself -- to fly from the anguish she endured to escape from thought -- from this hell of disappointment . 
`` Still her eyes closed not -- one remembrance with frightful velocity followed another -- All the incidents of her life were in arms , embodied to assail her , and prevent her sinking into the sleep of death . 
-- Her murdered child again appeared to her , mourning for the babe of which she was the tomb . 
-- Her head turned ; a stupor ensued ; a faintness -- ` Have a little patience , ' said Maria , holding her swimming head -LRB- she thought of her mother -RRB- , ` this can not last long ; and what is a little bodily pain to the pangs I have endured ? ' 
`` A new vision swam before her . 
Maria started off the bed , and fainted . 
`` When she was restored to life , Jemima addressed her with great solemnity : ` -- led me to suspect , that your husband and brother had deceived you , and secreted the child . 
`` Maria gazed wildly at her , her whole frame was convulsed with emotion ; when the child , whom Jemima had been tutoring all the journey , uttered the word ` Mamma ! ' 
Thirdly , the circumstance which determined me in annexing them to the present work , was the slight association -LRB- in default of a strong one -RRB- between the affectionate and pathetic manner in which Maria Venables addresses her infant , in the Wrongs of Woman ; and the agonising and painful sentiment with which the author originally bequeathed these papers , as a legacy for the benefit of her child . 
