The level rays of the morning sun , crowding through the one eastern window , deluged the wide kitchen with light , danced a little scornfully among the coarse breakfast service upon the table , rioted gleefully in and out of Dora 's chestnut curls , as she knelt upon the hearth carefully stirring the contents of the saucepan , and rested at last with a loving radiance upon the pale fingers and smooth , think locks of the invalid who reclined upon the couch beside the fire . 
`` You 're a darling little nurse , Dora , '' said Mrs. Darley , while her eyes rested lovingly upon the straight , firm figure and noble head of her daughter . 
asked Dora from the other end of the room . 
`` Where did father and Tom go , Dora ? '' 
I ca n't tell just when it 's coming , Dora ; but I know it will be soon ; and I must bid you all good by first , or I could n't go happy . '' 
In a few moments , however , the self-restraint that circumstances had imposed upon the child 's habit until it had become second nature , asserted itself , and Dora gently extricated herself from her mother 's arms , and rose to her feet , saying , -- `` You 'll feel stronger , mammy dear , when you 've had something to eat . 
Then , after she had placed a chair and a pillow at her mother 's back , she brought the little tray , covered with a damask napkin , and holding the one china cup and silver spoon of the meagre household . 
Dora waited silently until the invalid began to sip the delicate gruel with apparent relish , and then she walked away to the window . 
Dora , fighting desperately with this terrible new grief that had so suddenly fallen upon her , did not notice , although her eyes mechanically rested upon him , the uncouth figure of a man , who , while limping across the yard , vainly sought to attract her notice , and beckon her to the outside of the house . 
He was the sole retainer of the house of Darley , and clung to its decaying fortunes with the tenacity of his race and temperament . 
Dora , aroused by the click of the heavy latch , came immediately to meet him , anxious to prevent his disturbing her mother with questions or complaints ; for Mrs. Darley had steadfastly stood between the slave and many a threatened injustice or cruelty on his master 's part . 
asked Dora , softly . 
With these words , Dora abruptly turned away , and began to clear the table , her lips assuming a painful compression . 
As he proceeded , Mrs. Darley also became moved , and presently called , -- `` Dora ! '' 
Dora came directly , and stood beside her mother , smoothing her hair , and glancing rather reproachfully at Picter , who had disturbed her thus . 
`` Dora , Picter says that there is a poor , wounded Union soldier in the barn , who has got away from some of the rebels , who had taken him prisoner , and is trying to get back to his regiment . 
Is n't it dreadful , Dora ? '' 
`` Yes , mother , '' said the girl , in a low voice , while her eyes brightened , and the color deepened on her cheek . 
Dora paused a moment , and then said , decidedly , -- `` Well , mother , I feel the way you do about everything , and the way you feel , is the right way . '' 
`` Now , Dora , go to my lower bureau-drawer , and get that bundle of old linen at the right-hand end , and bring the bottle of liniment from the cupboard . 
Dora stood still and looked at him as she had looked at the sun a half hour before . 
`` Now , Dora , come and help the gentleman . 
She can remove the bandage better than you can , sir , because she can see it . '' 
In a short time , by the help of plenty of warm water , soap , and a towel , the young stranger presented a much less ghastly appearance ; and when Dora had deftly bound on the cool , clean bandage , soaked in healing liniment , he declared that he felt himself a different man . 
Dora , pour some tea for -- what shall we call you , sir ? '' 
Mrs. Darley , Dora , and Picter looked at each other and at him . 
`` Dora , put up as much food as they can carry ; and you had better take a blanket or comforter , Captain Karl . 
Dora , bring my purse , and give it to Uncle Picter . 
Twoor three hours after the departure of the fugitives passed quietly over -- quietly , that is , as to events ; but Mrs. Darley had been so agitated and tired with the excitement of the morning that she could not get over it , and Dora was far more alarmed than she confessed at the alternate fever and deathly faintness that her mother vainly tried to conceal . 
Dora went to her side , and taking her hand , turned a keen , defiant gaze upon the strangers . 
At her father she did not glance . 
asked Darley , sternly . 
His wife made no answer , nor did she unclose her eyes . 
She is n't able to talk at all , '' said Dora , firmly . 
`` Just tell me this , Dora . 
persisted Darley , impatiently , although he lowered his voice , and cast an anxious glance at his wife 's deathly face . 
Dora glanced scornfully at the speaker , and made no reply . 
`` Come , Do , tell me if such a man came , and who he was , and where he 's gone , and then we wo n't plague you and mother any more , '' said Darley , in the coaxing tone that long experience had taught him was the easiest method of reaching his daughter 's heart . 
`` Shedo n't know anything about him , '' said Darley , turning to his companions . 
Left alone , Mrs. Darley broke into a fit of convulsive weeping , and Dora vainly tried to comfort her . 
While she was still bending over the couch , the kitchen door was again opened , and Darley 's voice harshly inquired , -- `` Where 's Picter , Dora ? '' 
After a short consultation all three rode away together , and Dora at last had the pleasure of seeing her mother drop into a troubled sleep . 
The sight of her sufferings , and Dora 's indignant expostulations , at last aroused a feeling of shame and remorse in the husband 's nature , and he hurried away to send the doctor , and to bring Mrs. Wilson , a married sister of his own , who lived at a distance of two miles . 
Before they arrived , however , the invalid had grown so much calmer , under Dora 's eager but judicious care , that the doctor , after attentively examining her condition , merely prescribed a composing draught , and hurried away to another patient . 
Dora , looking keenly at him as she went in and out of the bedroom , pitied her father , and yet could not but be glad at the thought that while thus preoccupied , he would not be likely to ask any more questions about Picter . 
Sometimes these fashions were not Dora 's ; and in these cases the child quietly pursued her own way , in spite of her aunt 's peremptory advice to the contrary . 
`` Mother likes it this way , '' was her simple reply when her aunt crossly inquired why she had altered the arrangement of the window curtains that Mrs. Wilson had carefully pinned together , and that Dora now looped back to admit the soft western light . 
`` But I doknow more about mother , because I 'm more used to her than any one else is , '' said Dora , simply . 
`` Dora , child , '' said Mrs. Darley , feebly , `` you 've been in the house all day . 
`` No , Dora ; I want you to go . 
`` I came to meet you , Tom , '' said Dora , putting her hand caressingly upon his arm . 
`` O , Tom , there 's a horrid time at home , '' burst out Dora , and then stopped with her lips close shut together to keep down the rising sob ; for whatever Tom might suspect , Dora would have suffered almost anything before she would have let him see her cry . 
`` How did you come to leave her , Dora ? '' 
Then Dora said , mysteriously , -- `` And Picter 's gone . 
`` Come , Dora , begin at the beginning , and tell me your story . 
So Dora did as she was bidden , and in a brief , distinct manner related all the events of the day . 
The only thing she omitted to mention was the refuge of Picter and the captain . 
This she concealed , partly because the cave was Picter 's secret , partly because she did not quite trust Tom 's sympathy with the fugitives , and his first words gave her reason to congratulate herself on her prudence . 
asked Dora , indignantly . 
`` Mother 's a first-rate woman , Dora , and I 'll lick any fellow that says there 's a better inside the state line ; but , Do , she 's a woman , and women do n't know about these things , same as men do . '' 
asked Dora , slyly . 
`` No , of course you ca n't , '' said Dora , sadly . 
asked Dora , thoughtfully . 
To this the young advocate of male supremacy made no reply , and presently Dora said , -- `` At any rate , you ca n't tell where they 're gone , because you do n't know . '' 
`` I ai n't going to , '' returned Dora , shrewdly . 
`` I 'll help you all I can , '' said Dora , gayly , as she ran into the house . 
But she smiled no longer , when , on entering the house , she found her father still seated by the fireplace , his face buried in his hands , while her aunt moved about the kitchen with noisy efforts at quiet , making preparation for supper . 
`` Well , child , '' began she , when Dora appeared , `` you seem to take it easy , any way . 
`` Mother told me to go and meet Tom , and I 've been , '' said Dora , quietly . 
To this address Dora made no reply , but went steadily about her preparations for supper , quietly undoing , as she proceeded , nearly everything her aunt had done . 
During this speech Dora had stood motionless , her eyes fixed , half in horror , half in surprise , upon her aunt 's face . 
When she had done , she came up to her father , and putting her arms about his neck , said softly , -- `` It wo n't be mother that will die and be buried up in the ground , father dear . 
`` Mother told me ; and it is all true , every word of it , for she read it out of the Bible to me , '' said Dora , triumphantly . 
It was the first time that Dora remembered such an act ; for besides her own shy and reserved habits , she had for a year or two plainly shown by manner , if not by words , her shame and indignation at her father 's intemperate and violent habits . 
Occasionally , too , he had ill-treated her mother , when angry and intoxicated ; and this was something that Dora could scarcely endure in silence . 
Now , however , all this was forgotten in the common sorrow that had fallen upon them ; and as Dora felt her father 's arm about her waist , she drew his head upon her bosom , and kissed his forehead . 
At this moment the feeble voice of the invalid was heard calling Dora , and the child sprang away to obey the summons . 
In fact , Dora and Tom watched it with silent joy , while their father hardly noticed it . 
Dora said nothing , but her face was very pale , her eyes very large and bright , her lips very firmly shut . 
She had watched the different stages of her mother 's disease , too narrowly to be deceived . 
But , Tom , if you and Dora could go to her , I know she would give my children a home , and put you both in the way of doing something better than to fight for a rebellion . 
`` That letter , Dora , is in my bureau drawer , at the bottom of the little box where I keep my trinkets . 
`` Dora , comfort and darling of my life , I could die content if I only knew that you would grow up in the home of a good and pious New England woman , such as I am sure my sister is . 
And , Dora , if aunt Wilson comes back , ask her to please to sit down with you a little while . 
Up and down the kitchen softly paced Dora 's little figure , her face white as ashes , except where dark rings had formed beneath her eyes , her hands knotted and twisted in each other , her lips pressed firmly together , her unswerving gaze bent steadily before her . 
Dora interposed , and pointing to a chair , said , in a low , strange voice , -- `` Mother is talking with father , now . 
`` Yes , we 'd something else to care for , before another morning , than Yankees or niggers either , '' said Darley , gloomily . 
asked Darley . 
Dora 'll come in for her full share , you may depend . '' 
`` Yes , she 'd ought to do that , '' said Mr. Darley , reluctantly . 
But I 'm afraid Dora 'll kind o ' miss home fashions . 
She 's been used to having her own way , pretty much , here at home , especially since her mother 's been laid up . '' 
`` Yes ; and in another year she 'd ha ' been spilte outright . 
It 's a chance , now , if she can be brought round . '' 
`` Yes , I reckon , '' assented her brother , rather doubtfully At this moment a light foot came down the stairs into the kitchen , and Dora herself appeared , looking very pale and worn , but quite calm . 
She greeted her aunt quietly , and went about some little household matter in her usual steady manner . 
`` Come here , my gal , '' said her father , holding out his hand . 
She went directly and stood beside him , her slender hand resting lightly upon his shoulder . 
He put his arm kindly about her . 
`` Here 's your aunt , Dora , is going to let you come and live with her , while Tom and I are gone to the war . 
She 's going to be real good and kind to you , and you 'll be the best girl that ever was to her ; now wo n't you , Dora ? '' 
The child 's face grew paler still , and her eyes lifted themselves sharply to her aunt 's face . 
She read there no more promise than she had expected . 
asked she , moving a little closer to his side . 
questioned Dora . 
Your mother 's dead , Dora , and ` tai n't likely your father 'll be settled ag ` in , -- at any rate , not right away , -- and he 's give you to me , to do for just as if you was my own ; and that 's all about it . '' 
Without a word , Dora turned away and went into her mother 's bedroom , closing and buttoning the door after her . 
There , all alone , upon the bed where her dear mother had died , she silently wept the first tears she had shed since that loss came upon her . 
But hers were not the tears that soften and comfort tender hearts ; they were bitter , despairing tears , and they left her who shed them determined and desperate . 
`` I was afraid she would n't like it , '' said Mr. Darley , in a tone of regret , when he was alone with his sister . 
`` She 's spilte , and that 's all that 's to be said . 
But she 'll come to after a while , when she finds she ca n't help herself . '' 
He did not now express this opinion to Dora , through respect for his mother 's memory ; but she perceived that he still held it , and was secretly indignant with him for doing so . 
Dora listened attentively , and without interruption , till he had finished . 
Then she said , -- `` Well , Tom , you must do as you like , or rather as you think you ought to , and I shall do the same . '' 
`` What do you mean , Dora ? 
`` I do n't think I shall stay with aunt Wilson a great while , '' said Dora , quietly . 
`` But you must , poor little Do , '' said her brother , compassionately . 
asked Dora , merrily . 
Dora laughed outright . 
`` You dear old Tom , '' said she , `` and what good would that do me ? 
`` No , dear Tom , '' continued Dora , while the smile died off her face , and gave place to the look of patient sternness , if it may so be called , that was fast becoming habitual to it ; `` such ways as that are only good to laugh about . 
`` I do n't just know myself , '' said Dora , thoughtfully ; `` and if I did , I do n't think I should tell you , because you might try to stop me ; but I shall contrive some way or other to get to Massachusetts , and find mother 's sister that she told us of . '' 
exclaimed Dora , indignantly . 
Dora went home with her aunt , who had caused all the furniture of the Darley homestead to be removed to her own house , where , as she had said to her brother , it added very much to the somewhat scanty comfort of her arrangements . 
Mrs. Wilson , feeling , perhaps , some touch of pity for the motherless child , forbore to press her either with labor or discipline ; and Dora , on the other hand , exerted herself to do all she could , and in the way that she supposed most likely to be agreeable to her aunt . 
Nothing done by Jane , Louisa , or Dora was well done . 
But Dora , accustomed to her own mother 's mild and affectionate rule , to commands so gentle that they seemed like requests , and to an authority as undoubted as it was unobtrusive , looked on at her aunt 's domestic management with undisguised astonishment , merged in silent but indignant protest as she found herself becoming an equal sharer with her cousins in their mother 's abuse . 
She was silent , to be sure , and , as the day passed on , grew still more so ; nor did she join in any of the mutinous gestures and whispered comments that sufficed for the relief of the other girls ; but one accustomed to her face and manner would have read in the kindling eyes , pallid cheeks , and rigid mouth a gathering storm , whether of grief or anger , as much beyond the usual scope of a twelve years ' temper as was the power of concealing it . 
Jane and Louisa cleared away the supper dishes , and put the cheerless kitchen to rights , while Dora , under her aunt 's supervision , folded and sprinkled the clothes . 
A large sheet came under the child 's hands , and rather than ask help of her aunt , who had left her for a moment , she attempted to fold it alone , succeeding , as she thought , very well ; but just as she was laying it in the basket Mrs. Wilson returned , and catching it out again , flung it on the table . 
Dora made no reply ; but as her aunt unrolled , with a jerk , the smoothly folded sheet , she took hold of one end , and helped to refold it . 
This was nearly done , when , with a snap and a jerk , intended to straighten it , Mrs. Wilson twitched the sheet out of Dora 's hands , and it fell upon the dirty floor between them . 
shouted Mrs. Wilson ; and catching up the sheet with both hands , she struck Dora a swinging blow with it in her face . 
`` I did not , '' said Dora 's voice , in an ominous tone , while her eyes were raised steadily to her aunt 's face . 
To this Dora made no reply in words , but her looks were too expressive to be misunderstood , and her aunt , after a moment 's pause , continued , -- `` Now I ai n't a goin ' to have ye stand there lookin ' as if ye 'd eat me up . 
You do n't know anything about her , and I wish you would n't talk about her , '' said Dora , firmly and quietly . 
Mrs. Wilson , glaring from one to the other , remained for a moment irresolute whether to first attack son or niece ; and Dora , without waiting for her to decide , walked quietly across the kitchen and up the stairs , leaving mother and son to a short but spirited battle of words , ending in Dick rushing off to `` the grocery '' at the cross roads , declaring , as he slammed the door behind him , that he wished he could go to Bedlam to live , instead of such a house as his own . 
It was Dora , who , with a little bundle of clothes in her hand , and her mother 's Bible in her bosom , was leaving behind her the only home she could call her own , and going out into the wide world to seek a better one . 
Her future course remained perfectly undecided , except that she intended to travel North as fast as possible , and hoped in some way to find out that aunt Lucy , of whom she did not even know the full name and place of abode , but whom she already loved for her mother 's sake . 
`` And now he is a rebel , and gone to fight , and perhaps he will be killed , '' thought Dora , sadly . 
Presently she took the little Bible from her bosom , and kneeling upon the old step with it tightly clasped in her hands , she prayed simply and fervently to the Father of the fatherless , that he would guard her dear brother , and her father , and herself from all evil and sin , and that in his own good time he would bring them all home to live with the beloved mother who had gone before . 
`` Perhaps mother herself is here , '' thought Dora ; and her eager eyes glanced around as if she might really see that dear face shining upon her out of the darkness . 
But such sights are not for mortal eyes , and Dora herself soon faintly smiled at her own fanciful hope . 
After a few moments she arose , and lightly kissing the closed door of the dear old home , she took up her little bundle , and went slowly down the path . 
Near the barn she almost stumbled over a dark figure crouching upon the ground . 
cried she , involuntarily . 
asked Dora , with a roguish smile . 
`` I am not living at aunt Wilson 's now , '' said Dora , quietly . 
asked Dora , suddenly , as the idea flashed upon her mind . 
`` That will do , Picter , very well , I should think , '' said Dora , composedly . 
asked Dora , wonderingly . 
asked Dora , rather impatiently , for she longed to begin her journey . 
`` O , thank you , Uncle Pic , '' exclaimed Dora , hastily . 
Picter stole cautiously away through the darkness , and Dora strained her eyes to distinguish once more the dim outline of her old home vaguely drawn against the gloomy sky . 
Dora shivered nervously , and murmured , `` This is n't home any longer , and aunt 's house is n't either . 
asked Dora , who was now tripping along beside the old negro in the direction of the mountains . 
murmured Dora . 
`` Yes , I know it , '' said Dora , sadly . 
asked Dora , a little anxiously . 
`` O , no , Picter , that is n't in the Bible , '' said Dora , quite scandalized at the idea . 
To this Dora made no reply , and Picter was now too deeply engrossed in making out their path among the rocks , fallen trees , hillocks , and ravines of the mountain side , to continue the conversation . 
asked Dora , in astonishment . 
Dora , without hesitation , put her hand in that of Picter , who , after lifting her over the brush and the rock , set her down at the entrance to the tunnel . 
With fearless obedience , Dora did as directed , and crept forward some feet into the tunnel , where she paused until the negro had arranged the disguises of his curious refuge to his mind . 
Indeed , the close air and heavy darkness of the place rendered the mere act of breathing a difficult one , and she had neither strength nor courage for speech . 
Keeping on as she was told , it was not many minutes , however , before a waft of fresher air touched her panting 452EAF . 
Image of Dora talking to a man who is building a fire outside of his house .452 EAF . 
Image of Dora talking to a man who is building a fire outside of his house . 
lips , and presently a dim light , at some distance in front , refreshed her aching eyes . 
Still creeping forward , she came at last to the end of the tunnel , and rising cautiously to her feet , stood beneath the sombre sky in what appeared to be a small , deep valley surrounded on every side by overhanging cliffs . 
exclaimed Picter , exultantly , as he stood beside her . 
Putting her hand in his , Dora was silently led across a little space of grass , to where , beneath the impending brow of one of the crags , a rude hut had been constructed of boughs and small trunks of trees . 
Reckon Scip 's gone right ' long , '' muttered her , leading in his little companion , and carefully closing the door behind them . 
`` Now you set right down on dis yer log , missy , an ' we 'm hab a fire an ' suffin ' to eat ` fore you kin say Jack Robberson , '' continued he , cheerily ; and Dora , tired , faint , and somewhat frightened at her strange situation , obeyed without a word . 
You ca n't neber see it f ` um below , '' explained he , turning round to look at Dora , who sat huddled up in the spot where she had first sunk . 
`` And I shall like it , too , Picter , '' said Dora , earnestly ; `` for I 'm going to be a Yankee all the rest of my life , after once we get among them . '' 
asked Dora , doubtfully . 
Dora laughed at this queer Scripture reading , and wrapping herself in the blanket , lay down upon her leafy bed , where soon she slept as soundly and as sweetly as if she had still been beneath her father 's roof . 
Thenext morning the weary child slept until Picter gently shook her by the shoulder , and called her to arise . 
`` O , good morning , Uncle Pic , '' said she , smiling , as she sat up and rubbed her eyes . 
asked Dora , merrily , as she jumped up and came towards the fire . 
Picter chuckled to himself as he lifted the tin kettle of soup off the fire , and Dora , giving up the attempt to understand his joke , inquired , -- `` Where can I wash my face , Uncle Pic ? '' 
`` I do n't think that 's in the Bible , Pic , '' said Dora , doubtfully . 
Looking about her with some curiosity , Dora saw that she was , as she supposed , in a very deep and narrow valley , hardly more , indeed , than a deep cleft near the summit of a mountain . 
Looking carefully down the dashing little waterfall , Dora saw that some twenty feet below her lay another little glen , similar in size and shape to that where she stood . 
This little valley , thus fortified , thus watered , and well provided with herbage , was `` the pasture '' of which Pic had spoken when asked where he had left the horse ; and here , at the moment when Dora looked down from her mountain eyry , a fine , strong looking animal of that description was indulging in a roll upon the dewy grass by way of performing his morning toilet . 
asked Dora , after taking a long survey of the little valley , the horse , the sparkling stream , and the grand view of mountain scenery that stretched away for miles before her . 
echoed Dora . 
`` Yes , I reckon I can , '' said Dora , bravely , though she turned a little pale as she carefully scanned the slippery and dizzy path pointed out to her . 
I 'll try , any way , '' said Dora , bravely . 
When it was finished , Dora insisted on washing the few utensils and scouring them as clean as she could , although Pic grumbled at both operations as useless labor , and added , as a final argument , -- `` ` Sides , dey ai n't use to it , and w ` en dey gits it once dey 'll olluz be spectin ' ob it , an ' be jes ' like dat ole hoss doctor 's darters in de Bible , dat was olluz singin ' out , ` Gib ! 
exclaimed Dora , pausing in her labor upon the coffee-kettle , and looking up at the negro 's grotesque face . 
`` Why , I do n't believe that is it , '' said Dora , meditatively . 
`` But , any way , '' continued she , shaking the heavy chestnut curls out of her eyes , `` I 'll scour the kettles now , if they cry , ` Give , give ' ever so loud to-morrow . '' 
That was the real reason you thought it was n't best for me to do them , '' laughed Dora ; `` you did n't want to help . '' 
By the time the vessels were thoroughly scoured and washed , Pic declared that it was time for dinner , and he proceeded to cook all the remainder of the provisions , that Dora and he might not only eat at that time , but have something to carry as support in the long night march before them . 
Dora consented , and lay down upon her bed of leaves , while Picter , as before , curled himself beside the hearth , and was in a few moments fast asleep . 
But Dora could not so easily seize irregular repose For an hour or more she lay almost motionless , watching the fitful firelight that played among the projections and recesses of the irregular walls a fantastic game of `` I spy . '' 
Dora softly arose , and was about to lay more wood upon the fire , when a distant sound arrested her attention . 
It was a confused noise , and Dora could not determine whether it came from the direction of the waterfall , or the tunnel through which they had entered the valley . 
But it appeared to be approaching , and as any unusual sound was a subject of alarm to the fugitives , Dora hastened to arouse Picter . 
Carefully leaving the cabin , he crossed the little glade to the entrance of the subterranean passage , and stood for some minutes with his neck outstretched and his ears alert , while his eyes wildly rolled first towards the hut and Dora 's watchful little figure standing in the doorway , and then within the gloomy chasm at whose entrance he stood . 
A few minutes passed , and Dora , almost holding her breath from anxiety , softly approached the dark passage , and peered within . 
She saw nothing ; but in another moment Picter noiselessly crept to her side , and hoarsely whispered , -- `` 'T is de Philistums , honey ! 
said Dora , impatiently . 
The negro looked at her with admiring wonder . 
`` But , Pic , I say , '' reiterated Dora , almost angrily , `` why do n'tyou do something ? '' 
Dropping to his hands and knees , Pic began to creep up the tunnel as he spoke , and Dora followed more cautiously . 
About half way , as well as she could judge , she overtook him lying motionless and listening intently . 
Dora did as directed , and found that the tunnel beyond Pic 's position was closed by a barrier , made apparently of small saplings , bound together closely with withes . 
`` But this wo n't stop him long , '' whispered she ; `` he 'll jump at it till he knocks it down , or at any rate till the men come up . 
Dora was too breathless and too excited to insist upon an explanation , and waited silently beside Pic , grasping the hurdle with one cold little hand , and listening with both her ears . 
Through the hurdle Dora could see the red gleam of his eyeballs , and smell his fetid breath . 
Picter seized Dora by the arm , and hurried her back into the open air , where they were pursued by the pungent dust of the earth-fall . 
whispered Dora , after they were safe once more in the hut , with the door closed . 
asked Dora , with a sort of breathless terror in her voice . 
cried Dora , in horror . 
Buckra ways , all buckra ways , '' said Picter , looking at Dora with the same sort of admiring wonder that he frequently displayed for her . 
`` You ought to like them better , Picter , '' said Dora , earnestly , `` because they are all true , and it is God 's own book , the Bible is . '' 
Wemust now go back for a few hours to the dawning of the day whose evening found Dora in the mountain cabin , reading the story of Daniel to old Pic . 
When Mrs. Wilson shrilly summoned her daughters to arise , she called Dora 's name with the rest . 
`` Dora ai n't here , '' sleepily replied Louisa . 
Where is she , then ? '' 
`` There 's the bow Dora had pinned on her gown yesterday -- ai n't it ? '' 
Ai n't she got back yet ? '' 
`` So she went up to the old house all ` lone , ` fore light . 
Where 'd she go next , I 'd like to know , '' said she to herself . 
When they were seated , she mentioned her anxiety at Dora 's prolonged absence , and also the clew to her movements given by the cherry-colored bow . 
`` And if old Pic has been about , it 's as likely as any way that he 'd harbor at the old place ; and maybe Dora went there to meet him , and they 've took off together , '' suggested Dick , who had been in a brown study ever since dinner-time . 
Here a shoe of Dora 's was given the dog to smell of , and he was then laid upon the scent . 
`` She 'll be hid up somewhere -- in a cave , or up a tree , or somewheres like that , where Vixen could n't reach her . 
Besides , if the nigger 's with her , we do n't want the hound muzzled , and Vixen would n't tech a white gal ; she knows better 'n that , ` specially when there 's nigger to be got . 
`` Well , '' retorted Dick , drawing a revolver from his breast pocket , `` all I 've got to say is , that I 'm going to keep at that dog 's heels , and if he offers to touch Dora , supposing we find her , I shall just put a bullet through his head for you . '' 
She died ` fore they got her home , she did . '' 
Wha ' 'd she want to stop right on the ground for ? '' 
If that dog flies at Dora , it 'll be the last fly he 'll ever make , '' returned Dick , emphatically , as he set off after the dog , on a long lope , that could evidently be kept up by so active a young fellow as Dick for a long period . 
`` Say , Dora ! '' 
Dick , without reply , advanced a little way into the tunnel , and called repeatedly to Dora , promising safety and protection both then and at home if she would only come out to him , and suggesting that if she refused , the dog would next be sent to summon her , and might prove a less considerate messenger than himself . 
A long and heated discussion of these events , continued even after the party were seated in friendly conclave at `` the grocery , '' where they spent the evening , resulted in the almost unanimous conclusion that Dora and Picter had been hidden in the cave , which was supposed to be of small extent , and that upon the approach of the dog , they had made some effort to escape by climbing its sides , that had brought the whole down upon their heads , burying themselves and the hound in a common grave . 
`` Why , Picter , it was a miracle that made them , '' explained Dora , earnestly . 
Dora , rather offended both at the incredulity and the line of argument , said nothing , but , turning over the leaves of her Bible , read here and there a verse to herself . 
Picter watched her furtively for a while , and then added , coaxingly , -- `` Bud , den , missy , yore mammy tole me once dat we wasn ' to be saved by our own wisdom , bud by faith ; so , p ` r ` aps , after all , you stan 's a better chance dan I does . '' 
To Picter 's surprise , Dora abruptly closed her book , and laughed outright -- a merry , girlish laugh , such as had not come from her pale lips for many a week before ; but the idea of Picter 's wisdom standing in the way of his spiritual advancement , struck her as an uncommonly funny one . 
`` Well , dear old Uncle Pic , '' said she , after a moment of merriment , `` if your wisdom will get us safely out of this valley , and to the Union camp , I wo n't ask it to do any more . 
`` Yes , missy , I specs 't is ` bout time to be movin ' , '' replied Pic , with such readiness one would almost have suspected him to be glad of an excuse for withdrawing from the argument . 
Dora , with a quiet smile , occupied herself in putting together the things they were to carry with them , and leaving the cabin in such order as must have much surprised the next comer . 
All was now ready for departure , and Picter , after standing at the door a few minutes to listen for any alarming sound , announced that all was safe ; and , carefully closing the door of the cabin , he proceeded , followed by Dora , to the edge of the cliff , and threw down into the valley the various articles carried by each , including Dora 's shoes and stockings and Picter 's brogans . 
He then stepped down to the first ledge , and , so soon as his feet were set upon the second , directed Dora to follow , he remaining near enough to help and protect her very considerably in the perilous descent . 
The child , with neither complaint nor exclamation of any kind , did exactly as she was bid ; and , after ten or fifteen minutes of anxious exertion , the two found themselves in safety upon the dry ground at the foot of the fall . 
I do n't believe you can , '' said Dora , slyly . 
laughed Dora , gleefully . 
I thought there was n't any bother about it , you said , '' continued Dora , mischievously , while she nestled herself into the branches of the pine that closed the passage . 
Dora joined in the laugh , but presently recalled to Picter 's attention the necessity of getting started , at least , upon their journey , before it should be quite dark , as the first miles of their road lay through the forest , and among the mountains , where it would be very easy to get lost , especially by night . 
`` Come , then , Uncle Pic , let 's set out to travel towards it , '' replied Dora , gently . 
`` Do n't let us talk about that , Picter , '' said Dora , softly ; for although she knew , even better than the negro , that her mother 's married life and associations had been little better than bondage , she felt it a profanation and an indelicacy to speak of it , or even to allow the faithful old servant to do so . 
Picter , with native tact , understood her feeling , and made no reply . 
Dora followed , and sat down upon the bank to put on again her shoes and stockings . 
`` Now then , Uncle Pic , all ready for the line of march , '' said she gayly , as she sprang to her feet . 
`` All ready , honey , '' replied the negro , lifting her to an extemporized pillion behind the saddle , and then heavily mounting himself . 
`` Younever have told me yet where we are going , Picter , '' said Dora , as they jogged along at an easy rate . 
`` To be sure it would , '' assented Dora , smiling . 
`` Well , that 's all true enough , Picter ; but it would be deceiving them to tell it , '' said Dora , rather doubtfully . 
`` O , no , Pic ; that is n't in the Bible at all , '' said Dora , decidedly . 
Dora , instead of replying , fell into a puzzled reverie upon the question of speaking the exact truth at all times , and under all circumstances , and longed , as she had longed many a time before , to be able to go to her dear mother 's side , and lay all her doubts and troubles before her . 
Laying her head upon Picter 's broad shoulders , and clinging to his belt , she slept soundly , wrapped in her blanket , and was sweetly dreaming of home and mother , when she was suddenly aroused by the halt of the horse , and a stern voice demanding , -- `` Who goes there ? '' 
`` I do n't want anything in camp , '' replied Dora , steadily . 
`` We are in a hurry , and wished to travel part of the way to-night , and have got a little out of our way , I suppose , '' said Dora , quietly . 
`` Do n't say any more , Pic , '' whispered Dora , softly . 
Her advice was cut short by another order from the sentinel . 
Picter , without reply , shambled along in the direction indicated , followed by the young soldier , leading Jump , with Dora sitting erect and indignant in the saddle . 
It was , though Dora did not know it , Green Brier River , and their guide was a vidette from a rebel company stationed at the bridge across it , to watch for the federal troops , of whose approach the rebel general had been warned some hours previously . 
Turning the horse 's head directly into the woods , Picter soon put himself and his companion out of reach or sight of the combatants ; but curiosity as to the event of the fight so strongly pressed him , that he was no sooner in safety than he abandoned the reins to Dora , while he hastily climbed a tall chestnut tree , and finally got a view of the bridge . 
With a sigh for the unattainable plunder , ending in a chuckle at the success of the side he had espoused in the quarrel , Picter came slowly down out of the chestnut tree , and again mounted in front of Dora , who had sat with flushed face and gleaming eyes , drinking in the somewhat fragmentary description of the skirmish to be gathered from the negro 's exclamations . 
`` O , Picter , '' said she , breathlessly , when he was again beside her , `` will there be more fighting ? 
eagerly demanded Pic , who was every bit as anxious to see the fight as herself , and who was glad to find an excuse in her own wishes for lingering with the little girl in a scene of possible danger , and certain horror , should a general battle ensue . 
cried Dora . 
`` And so I will , '' cried Dora , with enthusiasm . 
`` Specs you 's born fer eberyting dat 's good an ' comfor ` ble , honey , '' said the negro , turning round to look lovingly into her glowing face . 
asked Dora , eagerly . 
`` That 's too bad , '' said Dora , quite disappointed . 
`` O , '' said Dora , a little dubiously , `` is it ? '' 
Here we are at the top of the hill , '' cried Dora , joyfully . 
Dey 's got two short leg an ' two long leg , an ' so 's I. '' `` You have n't four legs , Pic , '' laughed Dora . 
The land , for about half the height on the side they had now gained , was cleared for cultivation , and Picter carefully concealed the horse , with Dora still upon his back , in a dense clump of young oaks and chestnuts that encroached a little upon the field below . 
Through their foliage , thinned by early frosts , she could obtain an unobstructed view of the scene in the valley . 
Image of Dora on horseback , next to a tree where a young man has climbed the branches . 
Image of Dora on horseback , next to a tree where a young man has climbed the branches . 
exclaimed Dora , clasping her little hands , while her face turned pale , and her luminous eyes flashed with excitement . 
Following this line of road , some half mile to the right of the position chosen by Picter , Dora 's eyes fell upon a dark , motionless mass lying near the highway , and surmounted by innumerable little glancing points . 
A close inspection satisfied her that this was a body of soldiers , with the sunshine flashing from their bayonets . 
She pointed them out to Picter . 
As Dora spoke , a small body of horsemen appeared at the head of the valley , riding rapidly towards the stationary troops , their plumes waving and accoutrements flashing in the sun . 
`` Yes , see , '' continued Dora , breathlessly . 
The cause of this last exclamation was a grand rush of the whole regiment , so intently watched by Picter and Dora , in the direction of the ambushed enemy . 
A battery of flying artillery now dashed down the road , past the hill where Picter and Dora had taken post , and , pausing directly in the enemy 's front , unlimbered its guns and opened fire . 
said Dora , in a low , excited voice . 
But his sneers and boasts met with no response , for Dora , his only possible auditor , was absorbed in watching the glittering line of bayonets descending the mountain road , and filing into the intrenchments of the rebel camp , where they were received with vociferous cheers of welcome , ringing loud and clear above the sterner sounds of battle . 
The next moment a shell , rising in a bold curve from the new battery , swept across the sky with a shrill scream to be remembered but not described , and finally swooped down , like some horrible bird of prey , upon the little grove where Dora was concealed . 
Dora , without speaking , slipped from her saddle . 
asked she , hurriedly . 
Before he could reach the ground , however , Dora had seized the smouldering end of the fuse in the skirt of her woollen dress , and held it firmly compressed in her hand , as she knelt beside the shell , with pallid face and eyes dilated with excitement . 
`` It 's out , '' said Dora , quietly , as she unclasped her hand , and pointed to the black end of the fuse , charred down to the very surface of the shell . 
Dora looked at him a moment , then looked at the shell , but said never a word . 
It was only by her marble face and shining eyes that one could have guessed how much was stirring within that little heart . 
When she did speak , it was very quietly . 
While speaking , Picter had hastily loosed Jump 's bridle from the sapling where it had been tied , and replaced Dora upon his back . 
`` Let us get round where the wounded men have been carried , Uncle Pic , '' said Dora , decidedly . 
`` Then keep along here in the woods , but do make haste , '' said Dora , impatiently . 
asked Dora , piteously . 
`` But those that groaned so horribly were only wounded , not dead , '' persisted Dora . 
`` Picter , I do n't like to have you talk that way , '' said Dora , seriously , as she fixed one of her steady glances on his face . 
echoed Dora , in horror . 
`` Well , never mind , '' said Dora , after a few minutes of puzzled thought , `` whether you are just like me or not ; you 're a dear , kind old uncle , and never was cross or ugly to me , or any one else , that I know of ; so it do n't make so much difference what you say . '' 
Dora laughed , and perfect harmony was once more restored between the two . 
In a few moments Dora found herself upon the edge of the wood , and only a few hundred feet from a line of ambulances already nearly filled with wounded men , whose groans attested the severity of their sufferings . 
Picter , after a slight pause , walked boldly up to the group of officers , still leading Jump with Dora upon his back . 
said the surgeon , benevolently , as he glanced again at Dora , and smiled . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Dora , meeting his eyes in an unabashed , earnest manner , that made the kindly surgeon smile again . 
asked Dora , eagerly , as she slipped down from Jump 's back , and went close up to her new friend . 
`` Dora , sir . 
Dora Darley . '' 
Before turning away , however , he said , hurriedly , `` Dora , if you like to , you may fill this canteen from the brook down there , and carry water to the wounded men in those ambulances . 
Dora eagerly hastened to do as she was bid , and with some help from Picter , soon supplied the occupants of the ambulances with all the water they chose to drink . 
Dora then approached the exhausted groups beneath the trees . 
asked she , gently , of a grizzled veteran , suffering from a blow on the head , given by the breech of a dying rebel 's musket . 
Dora , delighted with her new office , next approached , with a shy , serious grace , the lines of soldiers , who , most of them , looked hot and tired after their exertions of the forenoon , although they stood steadily to their ranks , ready at any instant to repel the most unexpected attack on the part of the enemy , who might , very possibly , attempt to harass the rear of the army they had not dared to meet openly in the field . 
asked Dora of the first officer she approached . 
Dora filled the cup from a bucket that Picter had found in one of the ambulances , and offered it with a quaint little courtesy . 
`` Dora Darley , sir . '' 
I am going North with the Twenty -- Ohio regiment , to find my aunt , '' said Dora , simply . 
You 're a cool little body , any way , '' exclaimed the officer , looking at her with an expression of amused surprise . 
`` Why , here 's a young lady , who says her name is Dora Darley , and that she came here under the escort of Picter , to travel North with the regiment . '' 
exclaimed the colonel , smiling slightly , but fixing his eyes somewhat sharply upon the child , who blushed a little as she noticed the attentive eyes and ears , and the quizzical smiles , of the group of officers now surrounding her . 
But , after a slightly troubled glance around the circle of strangers , her clear eyes sought the grave and kindly face of the colonel , and rested there . 
`` Because Picter belongs to it , and so does -- somebody I know , '' replied Dora , hesitating a little as she remembered that her mother 's visitor had said that `` Captain Karl '' was only a home name . 
She pointed , as she spoke , to the negro , who , finding that his little mistress was about to have an interview with the higher powers , had modestly shrouded himself from observation behind the group of officers . 
`` He was going North , but Captain Karl brought him here , '' interposed Dora , rather hastily , as if anxious to explain that her old friend had not attached himself to the regiment uninvited . 
cried Dora , joyfully , as she caught sight of her friend advancing down the valley at the head of his company , who had been detailed to make a final search in the thickets on the hill-side for any wounded who might have been concealed there , and overlooked . 
`` It was mother , sir , '' said Dora , with the old straitness settling upon her lips . 
`` She is dead , sir , '' said Dora , softly . 
She told me to go away to the North as soon as I could , '' said Dora , anxiously , for a little cloud had settled upon the colonel 's brow . 
I 'm Union all through , '' asseverated Dora so earnestly , that a smile went round the circle of attentive listeners . 
`` That 's right , Dora . 
You said your name was Dora -- did n't you ? '' 
`` Yes , sir ; Dora Darley . '' 
asked Dora , gravely . 
That is just what I should like better than anything , '' cried Dora , with shining eyes and joyful smile . 
The colonel , taking Dora by the hand , led her a few paces back , so that she might be seen by the whole regiment . 
Every eye was fixed upon her . 
`` But , after all , the men have had no water , '' murmured Dora to Picter , as , in the bustle of `` falling in , '' she found herself again beside him . 
With feminine intuition Dora perceived the jealous pang , with feminine tact she relieved it . 
`` The vivandièreis to ride in ambulance No. 3 , '' said an orderly , hastening up to Dora , and smiling pleasantly as he pointed to the wagon . 
returned Picter , with much majesty ; and , as the laughing orderly fell back to his station , the negro led Dora to her appointed chariot , helped her to a seat beside the driver , and then scuttled off to the woods , where he had left the redoubtable Jump snatching a hasty lunch from the short , sweet , mountain grass . 
Colonel Blankdid not forget his promise of putting Dora under the care and instruction of the chaplain of his regiment ; and the morning after her arrival in camp she was summoned to the colonel 's tent , to be introduced to the Rev. Mr. Brown , commonly called , among the somewhat unruly members of his flock , Fight-and-pray , from a tradition that he had been found , on the occasion of a sudden surprise by the enemy , crouching behind a stone wall within aiming distance , and loading and firing with a promptness and exactness that no amount of drill could have improved . 
`` Here is our new daughter , parson , '' said the colonel , as Dora , deserted at the door of the tent by the orderly who had brought her , entered alone and came slowly forward . 
`` This is Mr. Brown , Dora , who is going to be so kind as to look after you a little while we remain here . 
`` Do n't puzzle her , Blank , '' whispered the chaplain hastily to the colonel , who ranked first in the class of ardent friends above alluded to . 
`` Do n't make her afraid of us . 
Come here , my dear , '' continued he aloud , extending a cordial hand to meet Dora 's somewhat backward one . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Dora , rather coldly ; and then her eyes , hitherto downcast , rose slowly to the level of his face , and calmly , not boldly , rested there long enough to fully scan its lines and expression . 
`` He is n't handsome , but he looks real good , and as if he knew more than almost any one , '' was the thought that shaped itself in Dora 's mind as she kept her steady eyes fixed upon the somewhat rugged face , that at last blushed like a boy 's beneath her scrutiny . 
`` And perhaps you will like to study a little with me , when we have time , '' continued the chaplain , who all this time had looked at Dora as steadily as she at him . 
`` O , sir , '' cried she , `` will you teach me ? '' 
laughed her new friend . 
`` Everything , '' returned Dora , with confident resolve in her voice . 
I do n't know anything now , '' said Dora , thoughtfully . 
Passing from the tent of the colonel , Mr. Brown , holding Dora 's hand within his own , now led her toward a large pavilion a little without the camp , made by the combination of several tents into one , the curtains between being looped up for air , or lowered for warmth , as occasion might require . 
`` Here is enough to be done , Dora , '' said he , cheerfully . 
The attendant immediately complied with this request , and Dora went to work so deftly and so tenderly , that the chaplain , after watching her a moment or two , said cheerily , -- `` Yes , you will do nicely . 
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Dora , softly , as she leaned tenderly over the poor fever patient , who was moaning out a petition for water . 
Noon came , and Dora , hastening from the kitchen tent with a bowl of broth for a poor fellow who had confided to her that he was `` just about starving for his dinner , '' was met by the chaplain , who had been looking for her . 
`` Come , Dora Darling , '' said he , after a scrutinizing glance at her pale face and disordered dress , `` I think you have done enough for once . 
He laughed as he went away , and Dora remained in a happy reverie upon her new life and new friends , until the chaplain 's servant came to summon her to the tent which Mr. Brown had left for her occupation while he was at dinner . 
The servant , having pointed out the toilet apparatus , which had been scrupulously re-arranged for her , withdrew , after promising to return with some dinner in a few minutes . 
Dora , with a new care for her appearance , hastened to remove the stains of her late occupation from hands and arms , to bathe her heated face , and scrupulously arrange her luxuriant and waving hair . 
Then she looked down at her torn and travel-stained dress , and hoped that the colonel would not forget his intention to provide a new one for her . 
I wonder if he ever looked at Mr. Brown 's hands , and nails , and teeth , and hair , '' thought simple little Dora , wistfully examining herself in the bit of looking-glass taken from the chaplain 's dressing-case , and hung up for her accommodation . 
She was still engaged in this amusement when the servant , whose name was Hepburn , reëntered the tent with some dinner upon a little tray . 
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Dora , turning away from the glass with a very unusual color burning in her cheeks . 
I 'm the daughter of the regiment , '' said Dora , with a little laugh . 
`` O , '' said Dora , thoughtfully , `` then I suppose you must . 
`` Why , what the colonel said I was to be -- a vivandero , I believe , '' said Dora , coloring again with the fear of committing a blunder . 
`` Well , I suppose , if Mr. Brown says so , it is right ; but no one ever called me miss , before , '' said Dora , thoughtfully , as she seated herself and began to eat . 
`` Well , Dora , '' said he , gayly , `` are you all ready for the Greek Grammar , or shall we begin with German ? '' 
I know there were a good many who wanted some when I came away , '' said Dora , earnestly . 
Mr. Brown looked at her attentively , and then took from his trunk a little volume of illustrated poems . 
The plates were artistic in design and exquisite in execution , and Mr. Brown , carelessly opening the book , placed it in Dora 's hand , saying , in an off hand manner , -- `` Well , we will go in a few minutes . 
said the child , as she eagerly , but carefully , grasped the book . 
Mr. Brown , taking another , sat down to watch her . 
Dora looked at it eagerly for a moment , and then raised her eyes inquiringly to the chaplain 's face . 
Dora listened , not with her ears alone , but with her eyes , her parted lips , her deepening color , her whole lithe body . 
She was charmed and absorbed as only a child on the verge of maturity , to whose youth has been denied all knowledge of such matters , can be , when the world of romance and story is first opened to her bewildered vision . 
Suddenly , however , her attention wavered . 
She closed the book , and rising , stood waiting until the chaplain should have finished speaking . 
`` O , no , indeed , sir , '' cried Dora , with such unaffected earnestness , that the chaplain smiled . 
Dora glanced wistfully at the book , still in her hand , then stepped resolutely forward , and laid it upon the table , saying , at the same time , -- `` If you had just as lief , sir , I had rather hear about it another time . '' 
`` But suppose , Dora , I ca n't tell you about it another time ? '' 
Dora looked steadily into the grave face , where was to be read no leniency of purpose . 
`` I think you will , sir , '' said she boldly , at length . 
But the chaplain was too wise to spoil by praise the unconsciousness of merit that gave such a charm to the little act of self-sacrifice , and as he walked along with Dora towards the hospital , he only said , -- `` Yes ; duty comes before pleasure , or should do so , at even a greater cost than the story of King Arthur . '' 
`` No , sir ; you are Captain Karl , '' said Dora , gravely . 
The two officers smiled , and Captain Windsor answered , -- `` So I am , Dora . 
`` They all cheered , you know , Captain Karl , '' said Dora , hesitatingly , evidently afraid of hurting her new friend 's feelings by confessing that she had not distinguished his voice from the rest . 
`` You was very kind to try so hard , '' said Dora , with a simple pity in her voice that quite turned the intended jest against its perpetrator . 
`` But if you will come to my tent after parade , I shall be happy to see you ; and so will Dora , I do not doubt . '' 
`` That boy has the making of a fine man in him , if he learns that little maxim I just quoted , Dora , '' said Mr. Brown , as he held aside the flap of the tent door for her to enter first . 
asked Dora , a little puzzled . 
There were many wounded and sick men in the hospital , who needed almost incessant care ; and the soldier nurses , overwearied and overburdened as they were , found themselves very glad to accept the services so eagerly offered by Dora . 
In fact , so little care or pity had the child for herself , that Mr. Brown was frequently obliged to interfere with an authority that she never thought of resisting , and force her to take time for rest or recreation . 
For regular study there was , as yet , no opportunity ; but the chaplain had with him a few well-selected books , and was able to borrow others , so that there was always something for Dora either to read to herself , or to hear Mr. Brown read aloud for her instruction or amusement . 
But this fine intellect was not Dora 's greatest charm in her teacher 's eyes . 
Mrs. Darley , although she had been unable to give her daughter the education she had never herself received , had labored zealously and constantly to make her good ; and these efforts , seconded by the child 's own nature , had been so successful , that to be true , self-denying , patient , and industrious , were as inevitable with Dora as her breath . 
And even Mr. Brown , a man in whose strong nature the good often conquered the evil only after a fierce struggle , stood more than once rebuked before the rectitude and conscientiousness of the child , who , in her turn , looked upon the chaplain as the incarnation of human virtue and wisdom . 
Captain Karl also was soon a fast friend and favorite of Dora , who always greeted his approach with one of the merry smiles that had been becoming far more frequent upon her face than they were in the old time , when care and sorrow had formed so large a portion of her life . 
With the men Dora was a universal favorite , although , partly in obedience to a hint from Mr. Brown , partly from a native sense of propriety , she mingled but little with them , and never familiarly . 
It soon , however , became an established custom , that every Sunday afternoon , as many as could gather around her , either in the hospital tent or out of doors , collected to listen while the child 's sweet and clear voice read out some chapters in the New Testament , and then led in a simple hymn . 
After this was over , the soldiers felt privileged to approach , and hold a little talk with their `` daughter , '' as they delighted to call her ; and it was good to see how even the coarsest of them softened his voice , and chose his phrases as fitly as he might , to suit the ear and mind of the grave little girl , who spoke to each so simply and so gently , and yet impressed all with a sense of her womanly purity and dignity . 
`` Good night , thin , an ' Hivin 's blissin ' on yer purty head , Dora Darlint , '' exclaimed Pat , as Dora , in passing out , gave him her hand in turn , with a kindly , `` Good night , Maloney . '' 
A small tent communicating with the hospital pavilion had been appropriated as the vivandière ` squarters , and this was almost filled with gifts of one sort and another from Dora 's six hundred or more fathers . 
The bedstead , table , and chair had been manufactured and ornamented with much labor and some taste for her express use , and the bed was warmly piled with blankets contributed by one and another honest fellow who `` really did not care for it at all . '' 
Pictures , and trinkets carved of wood or bone , hung upon the canvas walls , or lay upon the table ; and Dora might have covered every one of her slender fingers with the gutta percha rings , some of them inlaid with pearl or silver , constantly bestowed upon her . 
From the sutler 's stores were provided a supply of blue cloth , and thread , needles , and buttons , and Dora shaped for herself a short , full skirt , belted sack , and Turkish trousers ; but both head and feet seemed likely to remain bare , as neither shoes nor cap of the proper size were to be found , or could easily be procured . 
But private John Slocum had been born a Yankee , and bred a shoemaker , and after two or three days of hard work he brought forward a neat little pair of high balmoral boots manufactured out of the cast-off pair of a cavalry captain , and presented them to Dora , with a sheepish intimation that , -- `` They 'll do , maybe , to keep you from stubbing your toes off raound these ere woodsey places . '' 
To be sure , Dora made every effort to prove that she retained the same affection and confidence she had always felt for her humble friend , and often went herself to look for him , besides urging him to come to the hospital and see her . 
Dora felt this discontent of her retainer very acutely , and tried , whenever she could , to dispel it ; but besides Picter 's own obstinacy , she was very often prevented from seeing him by the engrossing nature of her own business . 
At the head of this convalescent department stood the chaplain and Dora , not by actual appointment , but by a sort of general consent , including their own ; and both found quite enough to fill hands , minds , and time , during the hours to which Mr. Brown endeavored to confine their attendance , for he wisely insisted on reserving time sufficient for rest , exercise , and food , both for himself and his pupil . 
Among Dora 's most requiring patients was a young Kentucky artilleryman , who had been dangerously wounded in the head by a piece of shell . 
His name was Merlin , and both Dora and Mr. Brown had taken the greatest interest in his case , and attended him with the most unwearied care . 
It was , therefore , to Merlin especially , that Dora 's first visit in the morning and last at night were paid , and he began steadily to improve . 
`` I 'm afraid he 's a shirk , and do n't want to go back to quarters and rations , '' said the doctor , as he passed on , without waiting to hear Dora 's eager disclaimer . 
The next morning , however , as soon as she entered the hospital , the young nurse perceived that some great change had taken place in her languid patient . 
asked Dora , anxiously , as she hastened to his side . 
asked the gunner , hoarsely , as he turned his blood-shotten eyes for a moment towards her . 
Dora listened in her turn , and soon distinguished a deep tone rising above the confusion of the place , in the wild accents of delirium . 
`` It is a poor rebel , who was dreadfully wounded by a sabre cut across his forehead , '' said Dora , soothingly . 
Do lie still , please do , or I shall have to call one of the nurses , '' pleaded Dora , almost tearfully , for the man 's agitation filled her with dismay , contrasting , as it did , with the perfect apathy he had hitherto exhibited . 
Dora looked at him steadily , and turned a little pale . 
`` If you will lie down quietly , and let me cover you up , I will tell you , '' said she , decidedly . 
`` The man in there had a picture in his pocket-book , a photograph of a young lady , '' said Dora , slowly . 
`` But I can not get it at all , or do anything about it , unless you will promise to lie perfectly still in bed here , and not even ask for your clothes again until the doctor says you may sit up , '' said Dora , decidedly . 
The Kentuckian muttered an oath , and tossed himself over with his back to Dora , who stood looking pityingly , and yet firmly , at him . 
As he did not stir , however , she turned to the inmate of the next bed , and began to make him comfortable for the day . 
Presently she felt her skirt plucked from behind . 
Turning instantly , she found Merlin again leaning upon his elbow , and regarding her with a sort of impatient submission of manner . 
`` Say , '' began he , as soon as she turned towards him , `` will you get me that picture if I wo n't ask for my clothes till you 're ready to let me get up ? '' 
`` You must promise , besides , to stay quietly in your bed , and not toss about so , '' stipulated Dora . 
In a few moments , Dora , having finished bathing poor Lynn 's feverish face , tripped away to the other tent , where she knew Mr. Brown was now to be found , and rapidly repeating to him the events of the morning , she asked for the photograph , which , with other property belonging to wounded prisoners , had been placed under the chaplain 's charge . 
He turned away without explanation , and Dora , slowly returning to her patient , wondered what the chaplain could have meant . 
As Dora approached Merlin 's couch , he eagerly extended his hand . 
She placed the picture in it , and waited a moment for some exclamation , or remark , to show whether the face was the one he had prepared himself to see . 
Lying perfectly motionless upon his back , with the picture steadily held before his eyes , he looked at it intently moment after moment , until Dora turned to attend to her other duties . 
When she returned , some time afterwards , he had not moved ; and when , an hour later , she again visited him , the picture had disappeared , and the patient slept , or appeared to sleep . 
Duringthe rest of the day Dora kept a constant watch upon the Kentuckian , for , in spite of his promises , she felt an uneasy consciousness that all was not as quiet with him as he wished her to believe . 
When her hour of liberty in the afternoon arrived , she sought Mr. Brown , who was reading in his tent , and told him that she feared Merlin had some plan in his mind with regard to the prisoner whose voice had moved him so strangely , and begged him to go into the hospital before night and question him . 
Mr. Brown promised to do so , and then , seeing that Dora looked pale and tired , he bade her put on her cloak and come to walk with him . 
Dora gladly obeyed , and , as they strolled along the mountain side , Mr. Brown began to talk with her of matters that soon carried her beyond the present weariness . 
Mr. Brown , who was a determined antiquary , grew enthusiastic as he talked , and Dora listened with more avidity to this marvellous , true story than she had to the romantic legends of Arthur and his knights . 
cried Dora , as a dark figure seemed to spring out of the earth a little distance from her side , and bound forward to the thicket . 
added she , as , even in the brief glance she caught of the figure , she noticed the peculiar motion of the limbs . 
Stay here , Dora , or , rather , crouch behind this stump , and keep close , while I go to see -- '' `` But you have n't any gun , or anything ! '' 
cried Dora , holding the chaplain fast . 
As Mr. Brown spoke , he released himself from Dora 's grasp , and , drawing a pistol from an inside pocket , bounded down the hill . 
asked Dora , breathlessly , while the chaplain inquired , -- `` How came you out here , Picter , so providentially ? '' 
`` No , you 're not , Picter , and you do n't believe it yourself , '' said Dora , laughing . 
asked Dora , anxiously . 
Arrived at the camp , Mr. Brown went to speak to Merlin , as Dora had requested ; and she insisted upon Picter 's coming with her into the outer hospital tent , now left unoccupied by patients , while she sought from the surgeon some plaster and a bandage to dress his wound . 
The negro reluctantly obeyed , and Dora , after bathing the cut , and applying the plaster , bandaged it so neatly and so tenderly , that , as the patient emphatically declared , it was `` better dan a whole head . '' 
`` And I am just as fond of you , Picter , '' said Dora , eagerly . 
Dora , I advise you to go to your own quarters now , and get some sleep . '' 
Picter waited until the curtain had fallen behind the chaplain , and then , approaching close to Dora , he whispered , -- `` Dat ar ' feller in de brush wor Dick Wilson , if dis chile knows anything . '' 
Night , missy Before Dora could reply , the negro was gone . 
Startledby Picter 's sudden and brief communication , Dora remained for some time seated where he had left her , while her mind rapidly reviewed the very little that she knew of her cousin Dick , and weighed the probabilities of his being in the position of Mr. Brown 's attempted assassin , and of his possible motive in making such an attempt . 
Almost a giant in stature , he was of a swarthy and forbidding countenance , and so violent at times in his language and behavior , that the surgeon and chaplain had forbidden Dora attempting to do anything for him . 
As Dora timidly paused near his bed , he faintly asked for some water . 
She gave it him at once , saying kindly , as she held the cup to his lips , -- `` You feel better , now -- do n't you ? '' 
You 'd better go to sleep now , '' said Dora , moving away . 
I 'm the vivandière , '' said Dora , inwardly hoping her hearer would not suspect how proud she felt of the rank . 
We do n't know what to call you , '' continued she , timidly , as the man lay staring at her with his bold black eyes . 
Good night , '' returned Dora , hastily , as she moved away . 
A few moments later , she found herself beside Merlin 's bed . 
Dora looked at him again . 
She noticed that one hand was beneath his pillow , as if concealing something . 
`` It 's the picture , '' thought she , `` and the other man will be asking for it soon . 
She therefore resolved to let the picture remain till morning , and with a kind good night , left her patient to himself . 
Retiring to her own tent , Dora dropped the curtain , undressed , and after repeating her prayers as simply and innocently as she had been wont to do at her mother 's knee , she composed herself to sleep . 
But , although tired both in body and mind , she could not rest . 
No sooner was she in quiet and darkness , than fancy surrounded her with vague shapes of harm , and whispered still vaguer warnings of danger to herself or others close at hand . 
She thought again of Dick , and wearied herself with conjectures as to his intentions towards her and the chaplain , until at last she almost fancied he was concealed in the very camp , and might at any moment start up beside her bed , ready to murder her as she lay , or drag her back a prisoner to his mother 's home . 
Reasoning herself out of these idle terrors , Dora next thought of Merlin , and his animosity to the rebel named Judson ; and she soon convinced herself that this , although concealed , was quite as vehement now as in the morning , when it had been so plainly shown . 
As these fears and doubts pressed upon her mind , Dora became more and more uneasy , until at last she noiselessly rose from her bed , slipped on a part of her clothing , stole softly out of her little cell across the empty outer tent of the hospital , and slightly drawing away the curtain between it and the second apartment , peeped in . 
All was quiet , and by the feeble light of the night taper , Dora could see that Judson was sleeping calmly in the corner , with his left arm thrown up above his swarthy face . 
The curtains were lowered between the two tents , and Dora , moving as noiselessly as a spirit , passed through the second , and peeped within the third . 
Dora stood silently beside the nurse , with intent to wake him ; but as she heard his deep breathing , and saw how soundly he slept , her purpose changed . 
`` I am not sleepy , '' said she to herself , `` and he is , poor fellow ! 
So Dora seated herself upon a box in the corner , and leaning back against a bale of blankets , began her lonely watch . 
For nearly an hour her senses remained as alert as at the first ; but then her eyelids began to droop ; her head rested against the comfortable cushion behind it ; the silent and dimly lighted tent , with its rows of sleeping patients , grew indistinct and confused to her sight ; and Dora slept . 
Of a sudden , a thrill shot through her frame , an indistinct horror seized upon her even through her slumber , and while suddenly arousing her mind to its full consciousness , laid a paralyzing hand upon her bodily senses . 
Through her half-opened eyelids she saw again the tent , the sleepers , the nurse , still sleeping heavily with the taper burning dimly beside him . 
She saw the covering of one bed thrown aside , and a man 's figure cautiously arising from it . 
This man was Merlin ; and Dora watched as in a dream , while with slow , deliberate movement he rose upright , steadied himself a moment on his feet , as if to try his strength , glanced keenly at her and at the nurse , and then drew from under his pillow a long bright knife , or dirk . 
Still as in a dream , Dora remembered that this knife had formed part of the Kentuckian 's accoutrements removed when he was placed in bed the morning after the battle , and she dimly wondered how he had regained possession of it . 
After a cautious pause , the gaunt figure began to move silently and swiftly across the tent to where the curtain , still looped aside , showed the interior of the second tent , with the corner bed full in sight , where lay the stalwart figure of the wonded rebel as Dora had last seen him , his left arm thrown above his head , and his face upturned . 
Noiselessly as a panther the ghost-like figure of the Kentuckian crept towards this corner , and , as he moved , Dora caught the glancing rays of pale light reflected from the blade in his hand . 
But at this awful sight -- at this crisis in the history of two men , both of whose lives hung upon the event of the next moment -- the frozen trance that had held Dora enchained suddenly dissolved . 
With a mighty effort she sprang to her feet , rushed through the two tents , and as Merlin , startled by the light sound of her approach , turned his head , she seized his uplifted arm in both her hands , and steadily confronted him . 
Image of Dora running into a room where a man is leaning over an ill man , clutching a knife and about to kill him .452 EAF . 
Image of Dora running into a room where a man is leaning over an ill man , clutching a knife and about to kill him . 
For a moment the man glared angrily at this child who dared to throw herself between him and his purpose , and struggled impatiently with her clinging grasp . 
Then Dora , feeling her power without reasoning upon it , said , in a low voice , -- `` Give me the knife , Merlin . '' 
Without reply , Merlin did as he was bid ; and Dora after returning to secure the knife , roused the nurse , telling him that she had kept watch for him through the last two hours , and now was going to her own quarters . 
The man , mortified at this mild reproof , was profuse in apologies , and was so evidently determined to keep himself awake during the rest of his watch , that Dora felt quite safe in leaving matters under his charge . 
As she passed out of the tent , Merlin called to her , appealingly , to speak with him a moment ; but Dora only shook her head in reply . 
A natural horror of the contemplated deed , and of the man himself , had already replaced the calm courage that had enabled her to confront him , and it seemed to her as if she could never be willing to approach him again . 
In the second tent she paused a moment to replace the covering over Judson 's broad breast , wondering , as she did so , if no ugly dream , no dim horror , such as had assailed herself , had waked in this man 's mind , to warn him of the horrible danger that had so closely overshadowed him . 
But Dora 's light touch effected what the hand of the murderer had not ; and as she drew the blanket around his shoulders , the man stirred , opened his wide black eyes , and , with a pleasant smile , murmured , -- `` I 'm coming , Nelly , '' and then dropped asleep again . 
Dora , creeping away to her own little bed , wondered if Nelly was the original of the photograph so valued by both these men , and also what Nelly would have said and thought , could she have known the events of the last hour ; and then , utterly exhausted by fatigue , agitation , and anxiety , she threw herself upon her bed , and slept heavily through the few remaining hours of night . 
Thenext morning , when Dora awoke with an aching head and heavy eyes , she recalled the occurrences of the past night as a horrible dream , and smiled at the feeling of terror that had accompanied her first moment of consciousness ; but the smile vanished when , as she sprang to her feet , the long dirk dropped from her dress , and fell rattling to the floor . 
Sinking upon the edge of the bed , Dora fixed her eyes upon it , and gradually recalled the whole chain of events connected with it . 
Her first impulse was to go at once to Mr. Brown , and tell him the story , relying upon his judgment to do whatever should be best for both men ; but when , after a hasty toilet , the young nurse looked for a moment into the hospital before going out , she found so many matters awaiting her attention , that she was unable to get away until after the hour when she knew the chaplain would be engaged in his own duties : she was , therefore , obliged to defer seeing him in private until evening ; for , although he regularly came into the hospital at a stated hour both morning and afternoon , there would then be no opportunity for conversation . 
When Dora , in her rounds , found herself approaching Merlin 's bed , she hesitated , and shrank back . 
replied Dora , coldly , and without her usual smile . 
`` Yes , I will come in a moment , '' returned Dora , readily , although in the same constrained manner . 
From the outer room she brought some warm water , mixed with spirit , and applied herself to the task before her , gently and carefully , but in perfect silence . 
`` Yes , if it will be of any use to you , '' said Dora , hesitatingly ; for she had just done the bathing , and was longing to get away . 
He paused and looked up , but Dora averted her eyes , and made no answer to his appealing tone . 
A fewhours later , Dora , having seen all her patients comfortably disposed for their afternoon 's rest or recreation , seated herself by Merlin 's bed , with some sewing , and told him she was all ready to hear the rest of the story he had begun in the morning . 
Dora softly placed her hand on his , but said nothing , and after a few moments the Kentuckian resumed his story . 
exclaimed Dora . 
asked Dora , in horror . 
Dora looked at him timidly , and sought for the right thing to say ; but she could not , in her heart , wonder at the resentment that his next words betrayed . 
interposed Dora . 
and I 'm glad you told me all about it , for I do n't feel now as I did about you , '' said Dora , simply . 
`` You have talked too much , '' said she ; `` you must go right to sleep now , and get a good nap before supper . 
A fewdays after these events , Dora stood , one pleasant afternoon , in the door of the hospital tent , looking wistfully out over the golden-brown hills and brilliant forest . 
She was tired , and not quite well , and was just wondering whether Mr. Brown would ask her to take a walk with him , and whether , if he did not , she might go with Picter , when a gay voice called her by name , and Captain Karl rode up on a fine spirited horse . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' cried Dora , eagerly ; `` but how do you mean , Captain Karl ? '' 
Dora colored hotly , for she was becoming keenly sensitive to her little inaccuracies of language and deportment and had , indeed , corrected most of them under the gentle hints of her kind friend the chaplain . 
Captain Karl 's ridicule , however , was quite a different matter ; and she felt more disposed to resent than profit by it . 
`` I think I had better not go to ride until I have asked Mr. Brown , '' said she , carefully . 
Captain Karl sprang off his horse , and walked along beside her . 
`` No , Captain Karl , '' said Dora , stopping short , and putting out her hand to be shaken ; `` you were quite right , and I was very silly to mind , only I hate to be wrong about anything . '' 
`` No , '' replied Dora , promptly . 
asked Dora , eagerly . 
Come , Dora , do n't be foolish about it . 
`` Well , I will go , '' said Dora , still rather doubtfully . 
I said then it was a regular lady 's horse , although I 'm afraid , Dora , you wo n't be able to ride lady fashion for want of a side-saddle ; but vivandièresnever ride on side-saddles . '' 
`` I never had a side-saddle ; so I can do better without than with it , '' said Dora , skipping along gleefully ; for the idea of a fresh , free gallop in the bracing autumnal air set all her blood tingling , and revived an instinct of her nature stigmatized by her aunt Wilson as `` tomboy , '' and by her mother as `` wild . '' 
asked Dora , a little anxiously . 
`` Why , I do n't know , '' said her companion , looking at her with a mocking smile . 
`` O , no , not at all , '' replied she , seriously . 
said Dora so seriously that Captain Karl burst out laughing . 
`` Mr. Brown is not my master ; and I am not at all afraid of ` catching it , ' as you call it , from him or any one else , '' said Dora , proudly . 
`` I sha n't turn back and leave you , '' said Dora , decidedly . 
He has no right to say must , '' replied Dora , pettishly . 
There was no time for her companion to reply , as the two parties had now approached near enough to speak . 
`` I believe there were no orders for the vivandièreto accompany the expedition , '' continued Colonel Blank , glancing at Dora rather disapprovingly . 
Whatever the colonel replied , as he passed on , was lost to Dora , for Mr. Brown at this moment laid his hand upon her horse 's neck , and asked pleasantly , but yet in a tone that the girl fancied somewhat arbitrary , -- `` Why , where are you going now , my child ? '' 
I think it is hardly a safe expedition for you , Dora . 
`` Thank you , sir ; but I think I will go with Captain Karl , '' said Dora , resolutely , as she caught the eye of her companion , who was looking pleadingly at her from behind the chaplain . 
`` But , Dora , '' continued Mr. Brown , speaking a little lower , `` it seems to me hardly proper for you to go off in this manner , with no protector but so young a man , who will , besides , be too busy to look after you , in case of an attack . 
Dora 's cheeks flamed , and the tears rushed to her eyes . 
She longed to submit to the judgment of her friend , and yet she could not bear the appearance of submission , under the mocking eyes of Captain Karl . 
The chaplain anxiously watched her face , and saw there the struggle between pride and duty . 
He feared that the former was about to conquer , and her first embarrassed words confirmed the fear . 
`` Come , Dora , I must be off , '' interposed the captain , hurriedly , as Colonel Blank paused and looked around . 
I shall take the best of care of her ; and in fact you know I am one of her adoptive fathers . '' 
The chaplain said no more , but Dora caught the disapproving expression of his face as he turned away ; and had it not been for very shame , she would have turned her horse 's head , and hastened after him to make her submission . 
Her companion seemed to have received a much less serious impression from the interview , and as they pushed their horses into a rapid trot , he said , gayly , -- `` Well , Dora Darling , we rubbed through that scrape better than I expected . 
asked Dora , shortly . 
`` Nor the colonel is n't old , either , '' persisted Dora . 
`` I should n't think they 'd like to call any one ` governor , ' if they are , '' said Dora , positively . 
asked Dora , with a look of mortification . 
`` Well , '' began Dora , doubtfully , `` I think it was partly because you said I would n't . '' 
Dora made no reply ; but , as she rode along , she made a firm resolution to confess to Mr. Brown , on her return , the weakness and folly of her course , as she now viewed it , and in future to be careful , in escaping from the wise control of one friend , not to become the slave of another 's ridicule . 
From this reverie she was suddenly aroused by the voice of her companion , saying , rather anxiously , -- `` What under the canopy has become of those fellows ? 
`` The road does n't look as if they had just passed , either , '' said Dora . 
asked Dora , finding that her companion continued his course . 
Dora lightly struck her horse with the switch cut for her by Captain Karl , and scampered along beside the tall charger ridden by that officer , very much as the Black Prince may have attempted to keep pace on his scrubby little pony with his captive , King John of France , mounted upon his noble war horse . 
Unequal , however , as the race might seem , it terminated in the arrival of the contestants at their goal in the same moment , and Dora was in the midst of some triumphant remarks upon the subject , when she was doubly interrupted ; first , by the captain 's exclamation of , `` There 's the farm , and there are our fellows , '' and secondly , by a pistol shot from the thicket close beside the road , that sent a ball humming close above Windsor 's head . 
Thehill , so merrily surmounted by Dora and her friend Captain Karl , proved to be one of those in whose valley lay the long red farm-house , with its range of barns , where the foraging party expected to meet with their booty . 
`` Pelt down the hill , Dora , as fast as you can ! 
He struck Dora 's horse , as he spoke , with his sheathed sword ; and as the beast struck into a canter , he put spurs to his own horse , and followed , pistol in hand . 
Not half way down the hill , however , a volley of bullets overtook them , and Dora 's spirited little nag , with a rear and a plunge , fell dead beneath her . 
Looking up in his face , Dora uttered a sharp exclamation of horror . 
It 's no more than a scratch , '' exclaimed he , hearing , rather than seeing , Dora 's consternation ; `` only it makes me a little sickish to stoop . 
Dora tried to obey him , but the spirited horse , already excited by the sound and smell of gunpowder , reared and curvetted too much to enable her to do so . 
cried she , at last . 
`` Get up , now , '' said he , dashing the blood from his eyes , and kneeling on one knee , that Dora might make a step of the other , while at the same time he kept a heavy hand upon the horse 's bit . 
asked Dora , with her foot upon the captain 's knee , her hand upon his shoulder . 
Crouch down close behind me , Dora , '' added he , softly , as the men paused in evident surprise . 
whispered Dora , excitedly . 
What are you doing , Dora ? 
The vivandière , rising calmly to her feet , stood between her friend and his enemies . 
`` They wo n't hurt me , '' said she , quietly . 
`` Dora , I wo n't have it ! 
Dora turned and looked at him in some little doubt as to the propriety of opposing her own judgment to such vehement commands ; but the rebels , catching sight of the head of the advancing column , who were struggling up the wooded hill-side without having discovered the road , now rushed from their concealment , firing as they advanced . 
We do n't care for finishing you off , '' cried one of the rebels , rushing forward and seizing Dora 's dress as he spoke . 
Then , drawing his sword , and sharply ordering Dora to stand behind him , the brave young soldier , wounded , bleeding , exhausted , stood at bay with so lion-like a port , that the remaining rebel wavered , glanced at the approaching soldiery , who , afraid to fire upon the group , were now rushing forward for a bayonet charge , and then , with a sullen curse , sprang backward into the bushes . 
Dora kneeled beside the wounded man , almost as pale as himself . 
`` You 'll have to be carried in one of the forage wagons , '' said Dora , quietly ; `` and I shall go with you , and take care of you . 
I 'll lie here with little Dora , to watch lest the robin redbreasts come and prematurely cover me up . '' 
`` Dora , child , I suspect you had better tie your handkerchief round my arm , above this bullet hole , unless you wish to carry nothing but a squeezed lemonpeel back to camp , in place of your friend . 
Dora quietly and quickly did as she was bid , nor even uttered an exclamation of horror as she deftly cut away the blood-soaked sleeves from the wounded arm , and laid bare the ghastly wound . 
Before she had finished , Captain Karl had fainted . 
said Dora , firmly , as she noticed this . 
The lieutenant , who was rather a stupid and undecided young fellow , stared a little at the peremptory tone adopted by the little vivandière , but hastened to obey her orders , or rather comply with her requests , as speedily as possible . 
`` Not to mention my hearers , '' suggested the captain , as he sank back upon the pillow of leaves , hastily arranged by Dora , at one end of the rude litter . 
Notwithstandingher sympathy in his sufferings , Dora could not but find it pleasant to have Captain Karl an inmate of the hospital , where his gay good humor and merry mode of viewing both his own and others ' misfortunes quite changed the character of the place . 
His wounds were by no means dangerous , and seemed likely to heal with little trouble or delay ; so that , after a week had passed , he declared himself , in confidence , to the chaplain , `` as well as ever , and only shirking so as to stay in hospital and help Dora on . '' 
Of the terrible justice he had so narrowly escaped at the hands of Merlin , the captain did not speak ; partly because he feared to excite a resentment that would defeat his own purpose , and partly because Dora so earnestly desired to have her own share in the event kept from Judson 's knowledge . 
The child , contrary to her habit , had taken a violent antipathy to this big black-bearded man , of whom Merlin had told such unpleasant stories ; and as her duties never now led her to address him , she seldom approached the corner where he still lay . 
One day , after Captain Karl had been placed upon the convalescent list , and was well enough to amuse himself , at least a part of the time , Dora left the hospital for an hour or two , and , after wandering about for a little while , went into the chaplain 's tent , to ask permission to go on with a book of his , that she had begun to read several weeks before . 
Mr. Brown , after a few kind inquiries and remarks , handed her the volume of Eastern Travels for which she asked , and invited her to seat herself upon a sort of lounge , manufactured by the ingenious Hepburn , to read it . 
Dora , absorbed in tales of harems , fountains , yashmaks , and other wonders , to her as great as those of the Arabian Nights , hardly looked up when Colonel Blank entered the tent , and so soon as she had returned his careless greeting , buried herself again in the charmed volume , and for another half hour was conscious of nothing outside it . 
At the end of that time , however , her attention was suddenly aroused by the mention of her own name . 
She glanced up abstractedly . 
Both gentlemen , sitting with their backs toward her , had become entirely forgetful of her presence , and were now discussing Captain Windsor 's conduct in the slight skirmish where he had been wounded . 
The sentence that attracted the attention of the vivandièrewas this : -- `` And taking Dora with him , besides causing him to disobey orders as to the hour of starting , was altogether out of rule . 
Dora , gliding quietly behind the chaplain , also made her retreat , unobserved by him , until , just as she disappeared , one of the guests exclaimed , -- `` Hullo ! 
A second thought , however , assured him of Dora 's caution and delicate sense of honor , and he seated himself to entertain his guests with his usual easy cordiality of manner . 
Dora , meanwhile , as soon as she found herself in the open air , hurried after the colonel , who was striding away toward the outskirts of the camp , for his evening promenade . 
exclaimed the vivandière , quickening her step almost to a run . 
asked he , kindly , as the child stood beside him , and raised her grave eyes to his face . 
`` I want to talk with you , sir , '' said Dora , with a little hesitation , for the exact form of her petition was by no means clear in her own mind . 
`` No , sir , '' said Dora , a little indignantly . 
It 's a silver whistle , Dora , such as boatswains use on board men-of-war . 
`` It is n't any such thing as that , sir , '' said Dora , seriously , for she had now recovered all her usual determination , and was rather annoyed than amused at the colonel 's raillery . 
`` I want you to forgive Captain Karl -- Captain Windsor , I mean , '' said Dora , bluntly . 
The colonel dropped her hand , and looked both surprised and displeased . 
I was reading ` The Howadji in Syria , ' and I forgot where I was , entirely , until I heard you say ` Dora ; ' and then I looked up , and you went on about Captain Karl , saying -- '' `` Never mind about Captain Karl , child . 
`` But , sir , Captain Karl was n't to blame , '' persisted Dora , in spite of the colonel 's frown . 
The colonel smiled sarcastically , as he made this inquiry , and Dora again colored deeply , but nevertheless answered with courage , -- `` Because , sir , he waited to ask me to go , and then to get a horse for me , and then you kept us a few minutes -- '' `` And do n't you know , child , that a soldier on duty has no right to neglect or swerve from that duty ever so slightly , and that many a brave fellow has lost life and honor for a smaller disobedience than this ? '' 
asked Dora , quickly , and with whitened cheek . 
Dora made no reply , and as the colonel looked sharply into her face , her eyes met his with a look of steadfast determination . 
`` What are you thinking , Dora ? '' 
Dora looked at him with indignant astonishment . 
asked she ; `` Picter has done no harm . '' 
`` But that is n't fair at all , '' cried Dora , passionately . 
A merry quaver in the voice struck on Dora 's ear . 
She looked up quickly , but the face of the colonel was as cold and stern as before . 
`` Now , Dora , '' said he , slowly , `` suppose that I conclude to do just this thing : to send you and Picter to the first rebel station , and let Captain Windsor go free . 
`` What sort of feelings , Dora ? '' 
`` I killed my linnet because he would n't eat out of my hand , '' said Dora , in a low , quick voice , while her eyes sank , and the color burned fiercely upon all her face . 
Dora solemnly shook her head . 
recommenced Dora , in a moment . 
Dora made no reply . 
`` I promise , sir , '' said Dora , raising her eyes to his . 
`` Good by , then ; '' and the colonel , with a beaming smile , turned abruptly away to resume his walk , while Dora , sorely puzzled , returned to the hospital . 
Doraeasily understood from the colonel 's present , with its accompanying legend , that he cherished no very severe intentions with regard either to her or her friends . 
Indeed , in thinking over her conversation with him , she came to the conclusion that he had all along exaggerated the danger and his resentment , for the purpose of inducing her to argue against him . 
Why he should have taken the trouble to do this she could not understand ; but as one day passed after another , and she found that neither Captain Karl , Pic , nor herself met with any untoward fate , she was quite ready to dismiss her fears and mentally thank the colonel for his forbearance , with no further attempt to understand it . 
Dora was now left with no especial object of interest under her charge , although she attended to those who remained with the same zeal and patient kindness she had always shown . 
The hours in the chaplain 's tent and those spent in the open air were now , however , more precious than ever , and she gradually extended her rambles , even when quite alone , considerably beyond the precincts of the camp . 
One afternoon , as he stepped from the door of the hospital , intending to go to Mr. Brown for permission to read a little , she encountered Picter , looking very mysterious , and somewhat puzzled . 
`` Well , come this way , then , '' assented Dora , good-humoredly , as she turned down a narrow lane between the tents , leading to the outskirts of the camp . 
Picter walked beside her , apparently buried in the deepest of reveries . 
asked Dora , at length , finding the silence not likely to be broken by her companion . 
`` If it is something about me , you had better tell right out all you know , and perhaps I can help you to understand it , '' suggested Dora . 
asked Dora , eagerly . 
`` There is the blasted pine , '' said Dora , after a silent walk of nearly half a mile . 
Do n't shiver so , Pic , '' replied Dora , rather nervously , as she paused to look about her . 
asked Dora , impatiently . 
Dora made no reply , but walked steadily on toward the wood , followed , at a little distance , by the trembling Picter . 
Dora paused , and turned a little pale ; for the negro who now approached presented so repulsive an appearance that Picter 's panic extended , in some degree , to his stouter-hearted mistress . 
`` I was most afraid that foolish nigger would n't give you the message , and Mas ' r Darley would be awful disappointed not to see you . '' 
asked Dora , coldly . 
And Dora , anxiously unfolding the soiled paper , read with some difficulty , by the faint light , the following words : -- `` Dear Dora : I 'm going further South with my regiment . 
Dora read the note twice through , and then slowly folded it . 
asked a voice at her elbow . 
`` O , you 've come back , Pic , '' said she , smiling a little . 
`` Go on , Bonaparte ; we 're all ready , '' added Dora , who felt much comforted , in spite of his grumbling , with Picter 's resolution to accompany her . 
Bonaparte , on the contrary , looked as if he found the company of the negro superfluous ; but he made no comment , and , at Dora 's command , he struck immediately into the wood , and rapidly led the party into its very depths . 
`` Do n't , Pic , '' said Dora at last ; `` we ca n't make it any pleasanter by talking about it . 
Bonaparte stepped forward , and spoke in a low voice to the taller of the two men , who then advanced toward Dora , saying , -- `` Well , Miss Do , so you 've come back to see your friends -- have you ? '' 
exclaimed Dora , in much agitation . 
`` I know it , sis , '' replied Dick , putting an arm about her waist , and taking her hand in his ; `` but , you see , Tom 's ideas did n't fay in with mine , no how . 
This parenthesis , addressed to Picter , who was following close to Dora , with a guard on each side , met with no response , the luckless philosopher being , for the moment , so overwhelmed with mortification , terror , and surprise , as to have lost the use of his nimble tongue . 
asked Dora , indignantly . 
`` Do n't get mad , sis , and I 'll tell you all about it as fast as I can , '' retorted her cousin , carelessly . 
murmured Dora . 
`` Well , it 's more dear Dora than ` dear Tom ' with me , '' returned Dick . 
cried Dora , passionately . 
asked Dora , faintly . 
The last words were spoken with more feeling than Dick Wilson had ever before been known to exhibit ; but Dora still indignantly shook off the arm he again tried to put around her . 
`` It 's very fine to talk about not letting any one hurt me , '' said she . 
`` I wo n't give up my brother as a brother , but I do n't love him as a rebel ; and as for cousins , I care no more for them than for any other rebels , '' retorted Dora , hotly , adding , in the next breath , `` but father ; you do n't speak of him . 
asked Dora , in a voice of horror . 
exclaimed Pic , dodging behind Bonaparte , while Dora sprang to her cousin 's side . 
The negroes then returned a few rods into the forest to collect firewood , while Dora and Clarkson followed Dick into the cabin . 
`` Sit down on this log , Do , '' said the latter , as he led her to a seat . 
A pot of coffee , with sugar boiled in it , but no cream , completed the repast ; and as soon as it was placed upon the table , Clarkson , Dick , and Dora sat down , while the two negroes and Lope remained in the background , hungrily watching the progress of the meal . 
The stew was savory , the coffee potent , and Dora made a far better supper than she would have supposed possible , under the circumstances . 
As her body became refreshed , her courage and energy revived , and when she rose from the table it was with a firm , though undeveloped , intention to make her escape with Picter from the hut before morning . 
A deep growl from Lope , as she walked towards the door with the intention of looking out , warned her of one of the obstacles to her attempt . 
`` Now , boys , '' continued he to the negroes , `` fall to , and polish off the bones ; and you , Bony , see that Lope gets something . 
Picter and Dora exchanged a glance , and the quick wit of each divined the thoughts of the other . 
Dora , returning towards the fire , contrived to stumble as she passed behind the log where Picter was now seated at supper , and saved herself from a fall by catching at his shoulder . 
As she did so , she softly whispered , -- `` Keep awake . '' 
Keep your eyes wide open , honey , '' said Picter aloud , as he put out his hand to help her to her feet . 
Dora , with a quick pressure of the hand , signified that she comprehended the double meaning of the words , and then , fearful of attracting attention , she passed on , and seated herself beside the fire , with her back to the room . 
`` There 's a shake-down in the loft for you , Do , '' said her cousin , seating himself beside her . 
`` You was very sure of finding me , '' said Dora , rather bitterly . 
asked Dora , presently . 
asked Dora , carelessly . 
Dora had now learned nearly all that she wished to know . 
One point , however , remained unsettled , and after a pause , she said , carelessly , -- `` I should think that wolf would run away in the night if you turn him out loose . '' 
Dora sat for a few moments longer , looking thoughtfully at the fire , and then signified her desire to retire . 
Her cousin , lighting a torch , preceded her up the ladder leading to an unfinished and windowless loft , where he showed , with some exultation , a comfortable looking bed in one corner , heaped high with dried leaves and branches of sweet fern , overspread by a large army blanket . 
`` It 's very nice , Dick , and I 'm much obliged to you , '' replied Dora , looking sharply about the place . 
added she . 
You had better go down now , at any rate , '' said Dora , rather petulantly ; for she was both alarmed and provoked to find that she was thus to be deprived of the only apparent means of exit from her prison . 
So soon as the head of her cousin had disappeared through the trap , Dora pushed the piece of plank , serving as a door , into its place , listened to hear the ladder withdrawn , and then sat down to meditate upon the escape she was still determined to effect . 
Atthe end of ten minutes of reflection , Dora suddenly thrust her hand into the pocket of her cloak , then into one after the other of those in her skirt , and finally from that of her jacket drew a stout , double-bladed knife , a present to the little vivandièrefrom one of her numerous friends among the men . 
whispered she ; `` I was afraid I had left it at home . 
Placing her eye at one of the cracks of the floor , the prisoner next reconnoitred the position of her jailers . 
Dora noiselessly regained the bed of leaves where she had been sitting , and drawing from it the thick double blanket , proceeded to cut it into strips of about a foot in width , and six feet or more in length . 
Carefully tying these together in square knots , Dora found herself possessed of a strong band of woollen , twenty-four feet in length . 
At this she looked for a while with much satisfaction , and then , coiling it upon her right arm , she nestled herself into her nest of leaves , and resigned herself to wait until Dick should be tired of his watch and fall asleep . 
That he should keep awake all night after his long and active day , she considered impossible , although she herself felt confident of being able to do so . 
And while confirming for the hundredth time her resolution to resist , at all events , the drowsiness stealing over her , the poor little maid fell fast asleep . 
Dora 's quick wits soon recovered from the bewilderment of her sudden awakening , and she rapidly and noiselessly extinguished the torch before thinking of anything else . 
Her next care was to ascertain her cousin 's condition ; but the room below was now in total darkness , and no sound was audible except the regular breath of the sleepers ; for a few moments of attentive listening satisfied Dora that these must be at least two in number . 
Before going to sleep , Dora had not failed to carefully note the position of her bed in reference to the other parts of the loft , and mentally resolve upon her precise plan of action . 
She now , therefore , felt her way carefully along the rough wall until she reached the chimney . 
Below one of the largest of these cracks , Dora 's sharp eyes had noticed that the wood was already considerably decayed , from the combined effect of heat and moisture ; and at this spot she had resolved to make her desperate attempt to escape . 
With the strongest blade of her pocket-knife she now began cutting away the soft pine as rapidly , and at the same time as cautiously , as possible , often pausing to listen for any movement below , as well as to take breath for renewed effort . 
An hour passed thus , and Dora , trembling from fatigue and excitement , saw that this part of her task was ended . 
The hole was of ample size to allow her slender figure to pass , and was not more than half the length of her rope from the ground . 
To do this , Dora returned to her bed , and standing upon it , felt carefully along the wall for a stout hook that she had noticed driven there , probably by Bonaparte for some purpose of his own . 
To this she firmly attached one end of the strip of woollen still wound upon her arm , and satisfied herself that both were strong enough to bear more weight than she should impose upon them . 
She next made her cloak into a bundle , and tying it to the other end of the strip , lowered it silently to the ground , and then , creeping through the hole , commenced her own descent . 
This was soon accomplished , although not without pain and terror , and Dora , with a throbbing heart , found herself once more at liberty . 
Detaching her cloak from the rope , she next cut off the latter as high up as she could reach , thinking it might prove useful in releasing Picter , whom she was resolved not to leave behind . 
Gliding cautiously round the end of the house , she approached the shed where she had been told he was to spend the night . 
The door stood partially open , and as Dora came in sight , the ungainly form of the negro was seen in the starlight , creeping cautiously out to meet her . 
That horrid wolf may be after us any minute , '' replied Dora , in the same tone , looking fearfully about her . 
asked Dora , in great astonishment . 
asked Dora , pityingly , as they moved rapidly forward among the trees . 
exclaimed Dora , pausing , and speaking in a more peremptory tone than she had ever used before . 
With a bound Dora overtook him , and laid a hand upon his arm . 
As she spoke , she sprang backward , and stood out of reach , and out of sight of the negro , who , pausing where he stood , in the middle of a little star-lit glade , looked anxiously back at her . 
You must promise me not to hurt him in any way , and to let him go as soon as is safe for ourselves , or I shall do as I said , '' returned Dora , firmly . 
I could n't help it , '' said Dora , earnestly . 
Pic dropped his burden to the ground , and Dora now saw by the feeble light that the unfortunate captive had been enveloped in some large cloth or bag completely shrouding the outline of his form . 
`` Missy , I 's got sumfin ' ter say to you , '' began Pic , limping towards the spot where she stood . 
asked the girl , allowing her companion to approach close to her . 
`` Well , '' said Dora , reluctantly , `` you must promise that , at any rate , and if the other plan is cruel , you must change it . '' 
Picter , as he spoke , bent over the burden at his feet , and began to raise it upon his shoulders , when he was interrupted by a low exclamation from Dora . 
exclaimed Dora , in much alarm . 
There ai n't any such thing as a wolf 's ghost , '' exclaimed Dora , impatiently . 
cried Dora , springing to the negro 's side , and seizing him by the arm . 
Dora , without further parley , hastily untied the cloak that she carried in a bundle over her shoulder , and opened the strongest blade of the knife which had once before that night done her so good service . 
`` If you wo n't do anything but talk that way , I shall have to fight the wolf myself , '' said she , quietly . 
exclaimed Dora , in a low voice , pointing to the thicket where she had been standing a moment before . 
`` Turn your face that way , and put your back to mine , '' said Dora , hurriedly . 
The creature , opening wide his jaws , uttered a savage howl , and dashed across the glade so close to the little group , that his long hair brushed Dora 's dress . 
Darting back as suddenly , he made a savage leap at her throat , and would have seized it , had not the vivandière , with a sudden and decided movement , enveloped the head and neck of the beast in the folds of the cloak held ready upon both her arms for this very purpose . 
The wolf , growling and snapping furiously , bounded backwards , and sought to tear away the covering with his paws ; but Dora , twining her arms convulsively about his neck , cried , breathlessly , -- `` O , Pic , Pic , be quick ! 
With a dying struggle , the wolf tore himself out of Dora 's grasp , leaped wildly up , and fell lifeless at her feet . 
Dora , meantime , had retreated to the edge of the wood , and seated herself beneath a large tree . 
The danger over , strength and courage failed her together , and in the darkness she did not check the tears that rained down her pallid cheeks . 
`` Make haste , Pic , and let us get away from here , '' said Dora , faintly . 
He 's punished enough by what he 's gone through already , '' expostulated Dora , as Pic began , groaningly , to raise his helpless captive once more upon his shoulders . 
Dora , too much exhausted by her late struggle for any further dispute , said no more ; and Picter , having at last arranged his load satisfactorily , struck into the woods at a pace really incredible to one unacquainted with his immense strength and endurance . 
Dora , lightly treading in his footsteps , kept close behind , glancing occasionally over her shoulder with a nervous terror of pursuit . 
`` You 're not to do anything cruel to that boy , you know , '' expostulated Dora . 
Dora was still meditating upon this bit of special pleading , uncertain just how to answer it , when Picter 's voice once more aroused her . 
Looking about her , Dora uttered a joyful assent . 
Before her lay the desolate gorge , closed by the blasted pine where she and Picter had kept the rendezvous with Bonaparte , resulting in their capture . 
Dora , for the first time , caught a glance at his face , and uttered an exclamation of mingled pity and terror as she did so . 
exclaimed Dora , passionately , `` it is too bad ! 
A smothered growl from the captive responded to this recommendation , and Pic , laughing inaudibly , beckoned Dora to withdraw a few paces with him from the tree . 
If you say so , I believe it , certainly , '' said Dora , hurriedly . 
My ` spec 's to yer mas ` r. '' Picter , walking backward up the glen , absorbed in admiration of his own ingenious mode of torture , was startled by a hurried cry from Dora . 
panted Dora , without slackening her speed . 
Lumbering along as swiftly as he could , Pic followed in her flying footsteps , but , keeping his head turned over his shoulder , tumbled over a loose stone , and measured his length upon the ground . 
Dora stopped , saw that her old friend had fallen , wounded or dead , as she supposed , and rushed back as fast as she had fled . 
Dora , in an agony of doubt and terror , looked down the ravine . 
Dora , without reply , snatched from her bosom the silver whistle given her by Colonel Blank , and blew through it a shrill succession of sounds in the order agreed upon between her and Captain Karl , as a signal of danger . 
To both Dora replied with a triumphant blast upon the whistle , as the well-known faces of a score or so of her friends , headed by Captain Karl and the chaplain , appeared at the head of the ravine . 
But Dora , who first had laughed and then tried to speak , when she found herself once more in safety , was now crying as if her heart would break . 
Even her elastic courage and endurance were exhausted by the scenes of the night and morning , and the heroine gave place to the little girl , who longed for nothing so much as her mother 's arms . 
Dora , who gradually recovered her self-possession , defended her sable ally with spirit , and Pic himself was voluble in explanation and argument ; so that the story was not yet finished when Sergeant Brazer returned , bringing the unfortunate Bonaparte as prisoner , and reporting that he could find no trace of the rebel scouts . 
`` Then I must go and take care of them , '' said Dora , springing to her feet . 
`` No , I thank you , Captain Karl , '' said Dora , blushing brightly as her eyes met Mr. Brown 's . 
`` I had enough of riding the other day , when we went foraging , '' added she , laughing . 
They do n't say that in Virginia , any way , '' retorted Dora , mischievously . 
I 'm going to Massachusetts when we 're mustered out , '' said Dora . 
`` What do you think of going to Ohio to live with me , Dora , when that time comes ? '' 
Dora glanced shyly from one to the other . 
`` I 'd like best to live with the aunt I 'm going to look for , and have you both come and see me very often , '' said she . 
But Mr. Brown looked a little disturbed at the turn given to the conversation , and Dora , blushing angrily , made no reply . 
`` We 're apt to forget what a little girl you are , after all , Dora , '' said the chaplain , pleasantly , as they reached the entrance to the hospital , `` you are so womanly in many things . '' 
Dora 's eyes filled again with tears as she hastily sought her own little tent ; but when , a few moments later , she reappeared , and went about her customary duties , her face had resumed its usual sunny calm , and her manner its wonted steadfastness . 
asked Dora , smilingly , as she made her appearance fully dressed . 
`` I wo n't tell , '' promised Dora , seriously . 
`` You should n't promise for other people , and it 's very wrong to swear about anything , '' said Dora , solemnly . 
I begged and prayed him to let him go , '' said Dora , indignantly . 
exclaimed Dora . 
I do n't like it , '' said Dora , seriously . 
`` I believe there 's nothing you are afraid of , good nor bad , '' said Dora , petulantly . 
So Dora was fain to sit in silence , or to chat with the chance visitors who , once in a while , rode up beside her carriage , or begged a seat within , if they chanced to be of the infantry . 
Mr. Brown came more than once , and so did Captain Karl , although the visits of the latter officer had rather the air of a stolen pleasure , and Dora noticed that he often looked anxiously forward to the head of the column , where Colonel Blank 's stately figure rode steadily on , leading the van of the long array . 
`` I 'm afraid you ought n't to be here , by your looks , Captain Karl , '' said Dora , mischievously , at last . 
asked Dora , anxiously . 
Dora gladly took the opportunity of escaping from her moving prison , and scrambled gayly up the steep hill under which her ambulance had halted , looking for nuts and wild flowers . 
Under a great chestnut she found a group of her own men , among them Merlin , feasting upon such spoils as the squirrels had left to them . 
The vivandièrewas greeted with cordial exclamations of welcome , and while Merlin spread his great-coat for a seat , his comrades collected all the chestnuts they could lay hands on , and poured into her lap . 
Dora laughingly protested against thus depriving her friends of their treat ; but , as the readiest spokesman of the party eagerly said for the rest , it did them all far more good to see `` the daughter '' eat chestnuts , than to feast on roast turkey themselves . 
Dora , in turn , insisted that they should at least partake with her ; and the men , throwing themselves upon the grass , surrounded her with an admiring circle , where quiet jokes and modest laughter from the courtiers mingled with sage bits of counsel , or information from the little queen . 
`` Upon my word , '' lisped a fair-haired aide-de-camp , raising his glass to look at Dora , `` these fellows are more fortunate than their betters . 
Dora , come here . 
`` Thank you , sir , for saying so ; but it 's only a little that I can do compared with what you and the other leaders are doing , '' said Dora , with shy self-possession . 
`` I have nothing to be proud of , sir , for I have not had a chance to do anything yet , '' said Dora , modestly . 
Dora 's eyes flashed . 
`` I 'm afraid I do n't half fill it myself , '' said Dora , simply . 
`` Good by , sir , '' said Dora , saluting with military precision . 
`` Dora is not a woman . '' 
`` It is hard to remember that , when one hears her talk ; and she is of woman 's stature already . '' 
`` Still she is but fourteen , and is yet young enough to be taught all that she lacks . 
I shall certainly adopt her as my own daughter , '' rejoined the colonel , decidedly , his previous vague desire suddenly strengthened into a purpose by his friend 's admiration of its object . 
An hour later it wound into the valley of the Green Brier , and Dora , with intense interest , identified the scene of the battle she had witnessed some months before . 
`` There is where the rebels lay in ambush , and just here is where our men stood waiting for General Reynolds to come up , '' said she to the driver of the ambulance ; `` and up there was Loomis 's battery , and there was , Howe 's ; and O , do you remember how Captain Daum took his one gun away up there , and how the poor little German ran away , and Captain Daum whipped him with his sword ? 
he took cold that night , I 'm afraid , for he died a few weeks ago , '' added Dora , mournfully . 
argued Dora , enthusiastically . 
`` I 'm sorry you think so , but I do n't believe you 're right , '' said Dora , rather loftily ; and after that she made no more conversation with her escort . 
Thecheerless dawn broke at last , and Dora , shivering as she wrapped her cloak about her , jumped impatiently from the ambulance . 
asked she , at length , of the driver , after wandering about for a few minutes , in the vain effort to restore her chilled circulation , and gain some clew to the provoking detention that was causing an impatient murmur all along the line . 
`` Dora ! '' 
said a low voice at her elbow . 
`` I 'm a little cold , but it 's no great matter , '' said Dora , cheerfully . 
`` Dora ! '' 
`` Dora ! 
Already the leaders of the different commands were rallying them for the retreat , and Dora had barely time to make sure that life yet lingered in the frame of her wounded hero , when he was again raised between two men , and borne down the mountain side to the ambulance . 
Repressing her own inclination to follow him , Dora devoted herself to searching the tangled thickets of the wood for wounded sufferers who were likely to be overlooked , giving them refreshment and comfort , and summoning to their aid some one of the parties detailed to carry away the wounded and dead . 
`` Dora , why did you leave the spot where I placed you ? 
Then taking Dora 's hand , he led her away . 
`` That was wrong , I think , '' said Dora , abstractedly . 
`` Dora , it was more matter to me what had become of you , than the fate of both armies together , '' said the chaplain , impetuously . 
Dora looked up with astonishment at the noble face bent towards her , the traces of strong emotion on all its lineaments , tear-drops actually glistening in the eyes . 
`` I did n't know you cared so much about me , sir , '' said she , simply . 
`` He chased after the rebels , '' pursued Dora , without heeding the exclamation ; `` and all at once one of them turned round , and faced him . 
Wrenching her hand out of the chaplain 's grasp , Dora hurried on before him ; nor did he again see her face until they reached the ambulance train , where the vivandi èrefound immediate and full employment . 
I wish to Heaven most of the men I know had your pluck , Dora -- girl though you are ! '' 
asked Dora , anxiously . 
Dora could not respond to the laugh that rang so merrily from the captain 's pale lips . 
`` It was my brother that you were fighting with , '' said she , gravely . 
Dora looked at him without reply for a moment , then briefly said , -- `` You do n't know much about it , Captain Karl . 
But Dora found her brother sullen , and disinclined for conversation . 
Altogether , Tom was very poor company ; and Dora , after vainly trying to render him more comfortable , was fain to offer her services elsewhere . 
Captain Windsorand Tom Darley were both placed in the hospital , although in different divisions , and Dora paid assiduous attention to both . 
Captain Karl lay silent for some time , and then called to Dora , -- `` Come here , darling , and tell me what I 'm to do . 
Dora smiled faintly . 
Dora stared at him speechlessly . 
exclaimed she . 
`` Well , then , seriously , Dora , I mean to ask you to go home to my dear good mother , to be another daughter to her , and a sister to Marnie and me for the rest of your natural life . 
asked Dora , flushing all over , as a sudden vision of a home , a mother , a sister , and her dear Captain Karl for a brother , rose before her mental vision . 
`` I ought n't to have let you , '' said Dora , with much concern . 
`` Captain Karl is going home , '' began Dora , abruptly , as she found her companion waiting for her to begin the conversation . 
Dora paused a little . 
asked she , at length . 
`` I do n't think you like Captain Karl as well as he deserves , Mr. Brown , '' said Dora , impetuously . 
`` Dora , you are in danger of becoming self-conceited , and a little too free in criticising the conduct and judgment of those older than yourself , '' said Mr. Brown , severely . 
`` I heard you say once , sir , that free thought was more precious than free speech , '' said Dora , demurely . 
`` You 're making me out rather a prig , Dora , '' said the chaplain , smiling , and coloring a little . 
exclaimed the chaplain , stopping short , and looking at Dora in a terrified sort of way . 
`` And you , Dora , what is your own inclination in the matter ? '' 
Dora walked by his side a few moments in silence , and then said , quietly , -- `` If it is so , I will stay . '' 
`` And not the men alone , Dora . 
You will not leave me , Dora ? '' 
I have no mother to take you to , no sister to offer you as a companion ; but I myself , Dora , will be to you brother , father , guardian , all that a man may be to the most precious charge God could give him , if only you will let me . 
Dora , I startle you with my vehemence , but you can not yet understand how this plan has become a part of my whole future . 
Dora , you will not disappoint me so bitterly ? '' 
The chaplain uttered the last words imploringly , and seizing Dora 's hands , stood looking eagerly into her face . 
But Dora did not raise her eyes to his . 
Her lips were compressed , and her face was very pale . 
It was a crisis in her life , and she felt it painfully . 
At last she drew away her hands , and said sorrowfully , -- `` You are both so very good to me ! 
`` Surely , Dora , you can not esteem this thoughtless lad as safe or true a guardian for you , as I ? '' 
`` That , Dora , is not for you to know . 
`` I shall , sir , '' said Dora , softly . 
WhenDora returned to the hospital , she found her brother impatiently awaiting her . 
`` Come into your own tent , Dora , '' said he , in a low voice . 
In about half an hour , the vivandière , having finished her rounds , entered her own quarters , where she found her brother impatiently awaiting her . 
But , Dora , I 'll die first . 
Dora said nothing , but looked very serious . 
`` Yes , '' continued Tom , glancing keenly at her , `` I know it 's bad for you in one way to help me off ; but in another way it 's your duty . 
You would n't sacrifice your own flesh and blood to a notion -- would you , Dora ? '' 
`` You 'll find I 'll be wicked enough to do it , as well as say it , '' retorted her brother , doggedly . 
`` Remember , Dora , that mother told you never to forget that you and I were all she had , and to hold together through life , whatever happened . '' 
moaned Dora , sinking on her knees beside the bed , and hiding her face . 
And Tom was moodily leaving the tent , when Dora called him back . 
`` Yes , Tom , I will , '' said Dora , in a very low voice . 
Dora remained a few minutes buried in gloomy reflection . 
`` O , Tom , '' said she , at length , `` you have need to make good use of your life after this , for I am giving my own for it . '' 
`` I will , Dora . 
Softly leaving the tent , Dora entered the hospital , and silently moved through the ranks of sleeping men , until she reached Captain Karl 's bed , placed by itself at the upper end . 
As she had expected , he was awake , waiting for her to bid him good night . 
`` Captain Karl , '' said Dora , sitting down close to his pillow , `` you said that you would be my brother if I came to live with you . '' 
`` Explain , Dora . 
`` I know , Dora . 
`` I did n't mean actually help him to escape , but help him after he gets North , '' said Dora , timidly . 
`` But if you care so much as that for me , you ought to care a little for my only brother , '' said Dora , naively . 
But I ca n't do anything more , Dora , I am really afraid . 
`` But money is not enough , Captain Karl , '' persisted Dora . 
exclaimed the poor girl , hiding her face upon the pillow . 
Dora raised her head . 
I 'm a fool and a rascal to do so much ; but I do it for you , Dora , and I could n't help doing it , if it was worse , when you ask it so earnestly . '' 
`` If I could ever do anything for you , or some one you love , you would find that I know how much this is , '' faltered Dora . 
They will be sent away to-morrow , '' said Dora , uneasily . 
Half an hour later Dora returned to her own quarters , with a heart curiously divided between hope and regret , shame and exultation . 
She found Tom very uneasy at her prolonged absence , and his joy at the success of her mission was proportionately great . 
Kissing his sister affectionately , he lavished praise and thanks upon her , and promised in the most solemn manner to obey her wishes , and those of his mother , to the very letter , in the conduct of his future life . 
`` If you will only remember that , Tom , I sha n't mind , '' said Dora , sadly . 
Thenext morning , when the prisoners were mustered for departure , Thomas Darley was nowhere to be found . 
asked Dora , timidly , as she glanced at one or two officers , who were looking at a map upon the table . 
`` I am very sorry for that , Dora , '' said the colonel , gravely , as he placed her upon a seat , and took one himself . 
`` Dora , I could not have believed you guilty of such teachery , '' said the colonel , very severely . 
`` That is because you do n't know me , sir , '' replied Dora , with quiet pride . 
continued he , after a pause , which Dora had not attempted to break . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Dora , simply . 
murmured Dora , in a tone of horror . 
asked Dora , raising a face of agony to her stern judge . 
`` I shall send you , Dora , to my own home in Ohio , to the care of my wife . 
Do you understand me , Dora ? 
`` But now , sir , when you have just called me those dreadful names -- '' faltered Dora . 
`` Perhaps I spoke a little more harshly than I felt , Dora ; and I repeat , the same qualities are not essential in a young girl and an army official . 
`` But , Dora , I want you myself , and I have written to my wife to say that I should bring you when I came . '' 
`` I know them better than I do you , sir , '' faltered Dora . 
Returning , he laid his hand on Dora 's head . 
He offered her his hand , and Dora carried it to her lips . 
`` You are so very , very kind , sir , '' murmured she . 
`` I should have taken Picter , and gone to the North by myself , looking for my aunt , '' said Dora , confidently . 
Inleaving the colonel 's tent , Dora encountered Picter , limping along with a gun over his shoulder . 
`` I 'm glad I met you , Pic , '' said she , turning and walking along beside him . 
asked Dora , with a suppressed smile . 
Dora 's face glowed . 
`` Yes , Mr. Brown is a different man from the rest of the world , '' said she , softly . 
`` Yes , Pic , you are right , '' said Dora , thoughtfully `` To live with him will be the wisest , but the merriest would be Captain Karl 's home . '' 
`` Heart of oak , '' murmured Dora . 
`` Good morning , Pic , '' said Dora , dubiously ; for she recognized in the eye of her old retainer a certain gleam that , experience warned her , foreboded mischief . 
Returning to the hospital , she found Captain Karl dressed for the day , and impatiently awaiting her appearance . 
He was about to return to his own quarters , having hitherto preferred the hospital , that he might enjoy Dora 's nursing . 
Now , however , the surgeon insisted that purer air , and more quiet , would be his best remedies , until he could set out upon his homeward journey ; and he only awaited Dora 's return to bid her good by , or , rather , to solicit her company to his quarters . 
`` Wait till we get settled in your own quarters , and then I will tell you all about it , '' said Dora , smilingly , as she busied herself in wrapping the invalid from the keen air he was about to encounter . 
Having seen him comfortably disposed upon his own bed , and having dismissed the nurse and servant who had supported him during the short walk , Dora sat down beside her patient , and while gently caressing his hair with her fingers , told him all the incidents of the morning , and her own decision as to her future movements . 
`` You 're a darling Dora , as well as a Dora Darling , '' said the captain , putting the little hand to his lips : `` I began to be afraid you were going to slip through my fingers , somehow , though you would n't have found it an easy matter to accomplish , I can tell you . 
`` But whichever crow gets it will gobble it all the same ; so the poor cheese is lost , any way , '' suggested Dora , archly . 
Stay here ; I want you -- '' But Dora , with a merry nod , was already gone ; and the captain , after a good-natured growl of disappointment , had no alternative but to lie and think of a certain little secret of his own , and the happy days awaiting them both at home , until he fell fast asleep , and continued his air castles in his dreams . 
Dora , meantime , found the chaplain in his tent , and after confiding to him the story of her brother 's evasion , that she might not escape whatever censure her share in it might elicit from him , she repeated her conversation with the colonel , and her own decision . 
Mr. Brown listened attentively , and when she had done , said , -- `` You have done well , Dora . 
But remember , Dora , that you promise to come to me whenever I am again at home , and at liberty to devote myself as I would wish to your education . 
`` Yes , sir , it is a promise , '' said Dora , with a little solemn air that brought a smile to the grave face of her companion . 
Late that night Dora was aroused from deep slumber by a scratching on the outside of her tent . 
Starting up , she exclaimed , -- `` Who 's that ? 
Go away , directly ; and in the morning tell Mr. Brown about it , and see what he will say , '' exclaimed Dora , indignantly . 
`` Now , honey , chile , don ' ' e talk dat ar way to poor ole uncle , '' began Pic , soothingly ; but Dora interrupted him . 
`` Ai n't no use sayin ' noffin ' , den , '' retorted Pic , offended in his turn , and with no further attempt at conversation , he withdrew to his own quarters ; nor did Dora again see him until the morning of their departure for the North . 
But of matters subsequent to her arrival at Mrs. Windsor 's home , we will let Dora speak for herself , in an extract from a long letter written by her to Mr. Brown , directly after becoming settled in her new abode . 
After detailing the journey , and speaking of Captain Karl 's renovated health she goes on to say , -- `` And now , Mr. Brown , I am going to tell you something so surprising , that I can hardly believe it myself . 
And only think , too , that Charlie -LRB- that 's what we call Captain Karl almost always here -RRB- knew all the time , or suspected , at least ; because , when he wrote to his mother about me , and said my name was Dora Darling , she wrote back word that her sister married a man named Darley , and told him to inquire if it was n't the same name . 
Dora is the daughter of the Mary Lee who owned that book before she married Mr. Darley . ' 
