`` Butwho knows , my dear father , '' cried Rebecca Littleton , laying her hand on that of her father , `` who knows but something yet may be done to reward a veteran grown grey in his country 's service ? '' 
`` But you have fought bravely once , '' said Mrs. Littleton , while a beam of exultation darted from her eyes . 
`` And after all , '' cried Rebecca , `` it is hard to be distressed for fifteen pounds . '' 
It was a clear frosty evening , in the beginning of January , when , in a little cottage , on the sea coast of Lincolnshire , Mr. Littleton , an old superannuated lieutenant in the army , his wife , daughter , and two or three neighbours , were comfortably seated round a cheerful fire , the brown jug was just replenished by the fair hands of Rebecca , and the song , the joke , and the tale went cheerfully round , when an unwelcome though not unexpected , visitor made his appearance , and threw a damp over their harmless mirth . 
He had often made his distresses known to people in power , who had once styled themselves his friends , but never received any thing more than promises that something should be done ; but hope had so often deceived him , that he now ceased to listen to her flattering voice , and was sinking into despondency , when the lovely Rebecca cheered him with the sentence at the beginning of the chapter . 
Rebecca was the youngest of seven children , and the only one who lived to years of maturity . 
She was at this time just sixteen , and had combined in her person all the beauty of a Venus , and the simplicity of a Grace . 
The little knowledge Rebecca possessed of mankind , she had gleaned from a small , but not ill-furnished , circulating library , to which all the inhabitants of the village subscribed . 
Her mind was highly tinctured with the romantic , but withal was enlightened with such a high sense of honour , virtue and piety , that it was almost impossible to lead her to a wrong action ; yet there were times when the fortitude of Rebecca was vulnerable . 
She could stand unmoved in a right cause against entreaty , persuasion , and even the severest threats ; but she was not proof against the sahft of ridicule . 
This juvenile appearance of her mother was a great misfortune to Rebecca , for Mrs. Littleton was ever more pleased with being told she looked like her eldest sister , than in being complimented with being the mother of so lovely a young woman ; indeed , she considered every compliment paid to her daughter as derogating something from her own merit . 
Rebecca could not sometimes help feeling the unkindness of her mother ; but whatever those feelings were , she suffered in silence ; no complaint ever escaped her lips , but she endeavoured , by the mildest acquiescence in her every wish , to conciliate that affection which she would have considered as her greatest comfort . 
`` It is hard , indeed , to be so distressed for fifteen pounds , '' said Rebecca : `` I wish I could hit on any plan by which my dear father might be relieved from this embarrassment . 
`` To be sure I do , '' replied Rebecca . 
`` Dear mamma '' said Rebecca , in an accent of surprise , `` how can you think so ? 
`` I think , my dear , '' said Mr. Littleton -LRB- though I have the greatest respect imaginable for your opinion -RRB- `` that it would not be amiss for Rebecca to go to Lady Mary ; when she knows our situation she may be prevailed with to request her son , Sir George , to wait till we can make up the sum : I will , in the mean time , write to my old friend , Lord Antrim , perhaps , he may get my small pension enlarged , Mrs. Littleton remained silent , and it was agreed between Rebecca and her father , that the next morning she should visit Audley Park . 
Attwelve o'clock , next morning , the lovely Rebecca , habited in a plain white jacket , a strawhat , and black teresa , sat out for Audley Park . 
`` Now this is really kind , '' said she , with the most condescending smile , advancing to the blushing Rebecca , and , taking her hand , led her to the sofa on which she had been sitting , and seating herself by her side : `` I flatter myself you are come to spend the day with me . '' 
`` Indeed , madam , '' replied Rebecca , `` I was not so presuming as to hope such an honour : I came to request -- to entreat '' -- she faltered -- the tears started in her eyes -- Lady Mary interrupted her . 
Lady Mary smiled at the eager manner in which Rebecca uttered this apology for Villars ; but it was a smile of the utmost satisfaction , it convinced her of the goodness of her young visitor 's heart . 
`` I think , '' said she , `` if some friend could be found who would advance this sum for your father . '' 
madam , how is it to be repaid , unless , indeed , '' -- hesitating , blushing , and rising from her seat . 
Greatful beyond the power of expression , Rebecca could only sink on her knees , press the hand of her benefactress to her lips , and , smiling through the tears that gushed from her eyes , looked those thanks she found it impossible to utter . 
`` Go , go , you are a simple girl I see , '' cried her ladyship , raising and pushing her gently from her . 
`` It means well , '' replied Rebecca , trembling and confused , raising her timid eyes to the face of her benefactress . 
Rebecca , then took her leave , and as she returned home , could not help thinking that it was very strange , and very inconsistent too , that sincerity should be deemed a virtue , and yet disguise be thought necessary to those who have much commerce with the world . 
cried Mrs. Littleton , as Rebecca entered the room : `` I hope you are convinced I was right , in supposing your vanity incited you to hope without foundation . '' 
She then , with the most bewitching simplicity , related her interview at the Park , while Mr. Littleton looked exultingly happy ; but good mamma contracted her brow , and , drawing herself up , as was her custom when any thing displeased her , said : `` I hope , Mr. Littleton , you will not think of letting the girl go : Lady Mary certainly does not mean to take her entirely , and it will only be filling her head with idle notions , of which , heaven knows , she has plenty already . 
I am growing old ; when I am gone all is gone ; it would be some comfort to me to reflect in my last moments , that my dear Rebecca was not likely to feel the pangs of want . 
I am as unwilling as you can be to part with her ; but it is necessary she should be in some way of earning a support , and , I trust , she has sense and fortitude sufficient to withstand every temptation to evil . '' 
my father , '' cried Rebecca , taking his hand , `` you may , indeed , depend on a child whose heart your precepts have trained in the love of virtue . 
Methinks , should I ever be tempted to stray in the paths of vice , your blest image will rise to my imagination ; methinks I shall hear your persuasive voice say `` Rebecca , wilt thou break thy father 's heart ? '' 
It has hurt me more than I can express , '' and she burst into tears . 
`` All this now is nonsense , '' said the old man , taking hold of her hand ; `` for my part I see nothing in a woman 's having two husbands ; it is naturally to be expected when she is left a lovely widow , in the prime of life , as you are now . '' 
`` No indeed papa , '' said Rebecca , innocently , `` there is nothing in it at all ; it is as common as can be . '' 
`` God send , '' cried Rebecca , fervently clasping her hands `` that for this many , many years , I may not experience so heavy an affliction as the loss of my revered parent : it would be a heavy stroke to us both , my dear mamma , but to me irreparable ; for , though you might find another husband , where should poor Rebecca find another father ? '' 
She turned away , covered her face with her hand , and sobbed aloud . 
After much more altercation it was at length agreed , that Rebecca should accept Lady Mary 's offer , and that Mr. Littleton should himself go to the Park that afternoon to thank her for her bounty , and to request her kindest attention to the welfare and peace of his darling Rebecca . 
Lady Mary received him with great politeness , and , after chatting some time with him , and assuring him of her protection to his daughter , she thus addressed him : `` I feel myself much interested in the happiness of Rebecca , and for that reason , though I mean to make her my companion , I shall not introduce her into company , or give her a taste for expensive pleasures . 
When I have visitors , her meals will be served in her own apartment ; when I am alone , which is the greatest part of my time , she will eat and sit with me , reading , working , or amusing herself as inclination shall prompt . 
My house at Twickenham is large ; one part of it is seldom visited by any body but myself ; here I mean to order her an apartment , and whenever I expect Sir George I shall request her to keep within it : however , as he is a very gay young man , I do not see him very often , and when he does come he does not stay with me above two or three hours ; therefore , Mr. Littleton let Rebecca know this , if she can bear solitude sometimes , and in general retirement , I shall esteem myself happy to have her with me . 
If she dislikes the plan , do not fear to inform me . 
One thing more I must mention : I shall constantly visit Audley Park once a year ; Rebecca shall always accompany me , and as we shall be out of all danger at those times , every amusement that I can procure she may depend upon enjoying . '' 
He returned home , and maugre the ill-grounded suspicions of his wife , the next day but one was fixed on for the lovely Rebecca to attend her patroness , and enter on an entire new course of life . 
Lady Marywas not an early riser ; Rebecca had been accustomed from earliest infancy to leave her bed at fix o'clock ; she had therefore arose at her usual hour , and finding herself likely to be alone till ten o'clock , went into the library , and selected from among the many books there , Sir Charles Grandison for her morning amusement ; the interesting pen of Richardson had so entirely charmed her attention , that she thought not of time till Lady Mary made her appearance . 
`` It is dangerous , Rebecca , to indulge that sensibility too much ; besides , my dear , you must not give way to an excess of feeling , when the tale you read is only a fiction . '' 
Rebecca listened with attention , but still in her heart she thought , surely , these amiable characters , these interesting scenes , are not all fiction . 
She nourished this idea in silence , and dwelt on the delightful vision , till at last too fatally convinced , that to be perfect was not compatible with mortality . 
She wept over the errors of her fellow creatures , and lamented that reasonable beings placed in a world abounding with every comfort , should ungratefully dash the cup of felicity from their lips , and eagerly drink of that which was strongly tinctured with gall . 
It is easily in our own power to be happy , said she ; but to render ourselves really miserable , requires much art , contrivance and solicitude ; for , before we can be completely unhappy , we must forsake the commandments of our all-wife Creator ; we must distrust his merciful Providence , and render ourselves totally unworthy his heavenly protection . 
But I am speaking of her maturer reflexions , and forgetting that she is but just entered on the grand theatre of life . 
It was with infinite pain that Rebecca parted from her father ; nor did he experience less anguish . 
`` God preserve you my child , '' said he embracing her , `` remember the happiness of your poor father depends on your well doing . '' 
`` Good bye , Rebecca , '' said the mother ; `` God bless you , child , be careful , circumspect , and wary ; suspect every one of a design on you till you are convinced of the contrary . 
`` But suspicion is incompatible with Christianity , '' said Rebecca ; `` we are taught to ` judge not that we be not judged . '' 
Rebecca bowed to her parents , and before she was from distance deprived of the pleasure of beholding them , the tears had effectually obscured them from her view . 
Their journey was pleasant , and the novelty of the objects she encountered , in a short time diverted her ideas , and before she arrived at Twickenham she was quite tranquil and happy ; nay , she was even more cheerful than Lady Mary had ever seen her before . 
It was late when they alighted ; but the elegance of the house , the extent of the gardens , and the taste in which they were laid out , was full and pleasurable amusement to Rebecca the next morning . 
Her own apartment commanded a view of the Thames and its delightful banks ; she thought she should never be weary of standing at the window . 
`` I will write my father an ample account of this charming place , '' said she ; but when she had rambled over all the pleasure grounds , alas ! 
thought she , it will be impossible to give him an adequate idea of its beauties . 
I must even request him to come next summer , and judge of it himself . 
For eight months , happiness , pure , unallayed happiness , took up her abode in the bosom of Rebecca . 
She read , she worked , walked , or played on her lute alternately , as inclination led , and during that time she had been confined to her apartment but twice , once when Lady Ossiter visited her mother , and once when Sir George was expected to dinner . 
Timenow flew on the softest pinions with Rebecca ; every rising day brought increase to her happiness ; the tenderness and affection of Lady Mary hourly increased ; she had discovered in her gentle companion great taste for music , and a dawning of genius for drawing . 
`` These are talents , '' said her ladyship , `` that ever afford a fund of innocent amusement to the possessor , and it is certainly my duty , by cultivating them , to compensate , in some measure , for the cheerful acquiescense Rebecca shows to every desire of mine , particularly in submitting , without repining , to a recluse life , which most young persons , at her time of life , and possessed of her beauty and vivacity , would think cruel in the extreme . '' 
To her , therefore , the cultivation of such a mind as Rebecca 's was a source of the most refined pleasure . 
She saw its beauties daily expand under her attentive care , with the same delight as the lapidary discovers the crust that envelopes the rough diamond give way to his labours , and the inestimable jewel assuming a degree of brilliancy that promises well to reward his industry . 
But , though the talents of Rebecca were thus easily drawn forth , and the rusticity of her manners began to assume a more polished air , it was impossible to alter the simplicity and purity of her mind . 
Whenever her generous patroness endeavoured to give her some idea of the manners of the world , she manifested such a degree of sweet incredibility , when informed of vices of which she had no idea , and was so ready to frame excuses for errors of which she imagined few could be guilty , and none intentionally , that Lady Mary was at length assured that nothing but experience would convince the innocent maid , but that every bosom was as free from guilt and treachery as her own . 
`` My dear Rebecca , '' said she to her one day , `` I will no longer labour to inform you of the vices and follies of mankind , the total ignorance of which seems to constitute your chief felicity . 
The autumn was now advancing , and Rebecca looked forward to the time when she should revisit her native village . 
`` And how will my dear father be delighted , '' said she , `` to see and hear my improvements ? 
I will buy her also a new cloak and bonnet , she will be the gayest of all our neighbours next winter ; '' then taking out her port folio , she selected of her best drawings , and , in imagination , arranged them round her father 's little rustic parlour . 
Lady Mary was that morning gone to Windsor on a visit to an old acquaintance , and Rebecca , having amused herself in her own apartment some time , in the manner already mentioned , at length took up her lute , and opening a window which looked into a retired part of the garden , and into which darted the mild rays of a September 's sun . 
She tuned her instrument , and began singing the following little song , which she had learned but a few days before ; it was of consequence a favourite from its novelty more than from its real beauty . 
While Rebecca was singing , she had been so intent on her music , that she had not observed any body enter the part of the garden to which her window looked ; but on laying down her lute , and turning her eyes that way , she perceived a young gentleman , in a riding dress , leaning against a tree , and gazing intently at her . 
The natural roses that played on her cheeks were heightened by this discovery . 
She arose hastily , and was going to pull down the window , when the young gentleman advancing , with a look of the most earnest supplication : Stay one moment , angelic creature ! '' 
replied Rebecca , with a voice and look of surprise , `` did you speak to me ? '' 
and she involuntarily suspended the hand that was raised to shut the window . 
`` To be sure I am , '' said Rebecca , smiling ; `` what else should I be ? '' 
`` Sometimes , '' replied Rebecca , with more reserve , beginning to perceive the impropriety she was guilty of in talking to a stranger . 
`` I can do neither , '' said Rebecca gravely , and she again raised her hand to draw down the sash . 
else I were ungrateful , '' she replied , innocently . 
She laid her hand on her heart , and raised her eyes , with a look of grateful affection : `` Enchanting simplicity ! 
Her uplifted hand fell from the sash , and her eyes were cast , first on the young gentleman , then on the ground . 
`` That would be impossible , '' said she , in a softened accent as she pulled down the window : but he heard not what she said , and being no longer able to gaze on her beauties , or listen to her voice , he retired from the garden in a state of mind by no means enviable . 
When Lady Mary arrived , she was much surprised to see her son in the drawing-room ; but as she had not the remotest idea of his having been arrived long , after the first salutations were past , she went to her own apartment , and dispatched Mrs. Harley , her woman , to inform Rebecca , that as she had company , she would order her dinner to be sent up , and should not expect to see her in the dining parlour . 
`` I do not understand you , my good Harley , '' said Rebecca , with a look of the utmost simplicity . 
cried Rebecca , eagerly ; `` is Sir George Worthy at Twickenham ? '' 
`` 'T is very well , '' said Rebecca : `` Your mistress perhaps , may want you . 
Lady Mary was rather surprised at this proposal ; but having long wished for an opportunity to converse with her son on a subject near her heart , namely , an union that had been for many years thought of between Lady Eleanor Harcourt , her brother 's only child , and Sir George , for whom he had proposed to beg the title of Earl of Chatterton , in reversion , he being the only male branch remaining of the family : she therefore satisfied herself with sending an affectionate note to Rebecca , briefly informing her of the cause that would occasion their separation for a few days , and assuring her she would visit her apartment the next morning , if opportunity offered . 
Rebecca sighed as she read the note ; but she flattered herself it was a sigh of pleasure , for the happiness her benefactress would enjoy in the company of her son . 
-- `` It is well , '' said she , mentally , `` that I took those precautions in regard to Rebecca ; she is exactly the woman to suit his taste , and I should have experienced the mortification of seeing my son reject a title and splendid fortune , and ally himself to obscurity . '' 
`` She will never have her father 's consent to marry any other ; nor do I think he would ever forgive a step of that nature ; nor can I say , George , that I should easily overlook your preferring any other woman to Eleanor . '' 
He dismissed Le Brun , and determined to rise by times himself , and join Rebecca in the garden . 
In the mean time Rebecca 's thoughts were fully employed in reflecting on the unexpected incident which had thrown her in the way of the very man whom it was her interest to wish to avoid . 
`` It was unfortunate , '' said she , `` very unfortunate , that I should have opened the window at that time ; if Lady Mary was to know I had seen and conversed with her son , it would make her very unhappy , and yet how shall I ever be able to face her after having , though involuntarily , transgressed the only restriction she thought fit to lay upon me ? 
When she had formed this resolution , her thoughts again reverted to the elegant accomplished manner , and fine person of Sir George , again in idea she recalled every sentence he had uttered , and innocently indulged the fascinating reflexion unsuspecting of the consequence . 
The clock had just struck eleven when Rebecca heard the footstep of Lady Mary on the stairs . 
She heard her enter her dressing room , and then , with palpitating heart , presented herself at the door of the apartment , and , by a gentle tap , demanded admittance . 
Mrs. Harley opened the door ; pale , trembling , her eyes cast on the ground , the agitated Rebecca entered , and courtesying , in a manner in which the soul seemed to bow more than the body , attempted an apology for the untimely intrusion . 
`` Come in , my love , '' said Lady Mary , then looking at her face she continued , `` Are you not well , Rebecca , or has any thing alarmed you ? '' 
Your goodness , Madam , overpowers me , '' said Rebecca seating herself ; `` my mind is not quite at case , and , if you have a few moments to spare , I should be glad to communicate something to you , without any witness to our conversation . '' 
`` Harley , '' said her ladyship , `` I shall not go to hed just yet , and will ring when I want you . 
taking Rebecca 's hand . 
`` I am come my dearest Lady , '' said she , rising `` to inform you , that I have , though undesignedly , broken your injunctions , and incurred your displeasure : let me , therefore Madam , expiate my offence , by being banished from this delightful place , and from your truly valuable society . 
I think him , '' said Rebecca , the most engaging young man I ever saw ; he has such a manly look , yet such a soft air and voice . '' 
said her Ladyship , gravely , `` and pray what might he say to you ? '' 
`` It is well Rebecca , I see you still retain that candour and sincerity for which I ever loved you . 
Will you make me one promise , Rebecca , and , without reserve , ever remember to keep it inviolate . '' 
`` Then hear me , Madam , '' said Rebecca , `` while I solemnly protest , that never , while I retain my senses , will I listen to any profession of love whatever from your son . 
Rebecca heard her in silence , sighed , and was preparing to leave the apartment . 
said Rebecca , as she retired to rest : `` Or is it a tender wish for my felicity , that actuates Lady Mary ? 
Her liberality , her condescending affection , all tend to convince me it is my happiness alone she is studious to preserve : and never shall it be said that Rebecca Littleton , like the ungrateful viper , stung the friendly bosom that warmed her into life ; for , surely , the cultivation of our mental faculties , the enlargement of our ideas , is a second , nay a better life than what we receive from nature , and this life I have received from my revered benefactress . 
What delightful sources of pleasurable amusement has she opened to my view ! 
How inestimable the benefits I have received from her hand ! 
Then her thoughts reverting to Sir George , she continued , `` Surely the son of such a mother must be all that is good and amiable , and it is not infringing my vow to love him as a brother . 
Then lifting up her soul , in its nightly address , to the Throne of Grace , she blended the name of Sir George with that of his mother , and sunk into that peaceful kind of slumber , which only innocence , like her 's , can enjoy . 
Smallwas the rest Sir George enjoyed that night , and soon as the morning peeped into his chamber he left his bed , and repaired to the part of the garden where Le Brun had informed him Rebecca usually walked ; but vain was this early attention , vain the anxious expectation in which he waited , the goddess of his morning adoration did not make her appearance , nay , even so scrupulous was she of her Lady 's injunctions , that she kept the window shutters closed on the side next the garden , and only opened one that looked on a grass plot that faced Lady Mary 's apartment . 
Till near nine o'clock Sir George walked in the hope of seeing Rebecca ; but finding those hopes frustrated , he returned , highly disappointed , to his apartment , and prepared to meet his mother at breakfast . 
Sir George started from his seat , wrote a few hasty lines , and bidding Le Brun give them to Harley with five guineas , desired they might be delivered into the hands of Rebecca . 
`` I am vastly obliged to him , '' said Rebecca , smiling , while her cheeks assumed a deeper glow , and her eyes a brighter lustre . '' 
`` Mrs. Harley , '' said Rebecca , opening a drawer of a small cabinet , `` do me the favour to accept these few yards of lace ; I never had an opportunity before of giving you some small token of my gratitude for your kind attention to me since I have been in this family . 
Harley , simpering , withdrew , and the innocent Rebecca little imagined she had betrayed a secret which she ought to have guarded with the utmost care ; nay , she even did not think that her heart was the least interested in Sir George 's welfare , any otherwise than , as the son of her benefactress , it was her duty to rejoice in his felicity . 
The remainder of the day Rebecca spent in arranging her clothes , & c. for her journey ; nor did she forget , among her musick , to put the new song , `` It is certainly extremely pretty , '' and she sung it to herself all the day . 
Her Ladyship took a very affectionate leave of Rebecca , told her James had received every necessary order , and again thanked her for the integrity of heart she had so nobly shown in having no concealments from her , and promised her that her friendship , for herself and family , should be manifested , even after her death . 
She then returned to the drawing room , and kept Sir George engaged in conversation till she imagined Rebecca was departed . 
In the mean time Rebecca continued her journey , and by noon , on the second day of her departure , she found herself drawing very near her father 's cottage . 
said she , `` how surprised and delighted will the dear old gentleman be to see me arrive so unexpectedly ; nay , I think , even my mother will rejoice to see her child after so long an absence : '' then , in idea , she ran over all she had to relate to them . 
said she , exultingly . 
She looked towards the parlour window ; no one appeared . 
`` I am afraid they are not at home , '' said she ; but casting her eyes up to the chamber , she saw the window curtains close drawn . 
cried Rebecca , springing from the chaise , and seizing the hand of Ruth , in breathless agitation . 
cried Rebecca , sinking on her knees , with uplisted hands and streaming eyes , `` restore him to my prayers , or let me not live to know his loss . '' 
The transition was so great , from pleasure to extreme sorrow , that she could no longer support it , but fainted in the arms of Ruth . 
he must not die without a parting embrace to his Rebecca . '' 
Rebecca followed , and in a moment found herself by the bed-side of her almost expiring father . 
He put forth his hand ; she pressed it to her lips , and sunk in speechless agony on her knees . 
my father , '' cried Rebecca ; `` I hope you will recover . 
replied Rebecca , `` I did not know you were ill till I arrived at the door . 
`` You have not offended her , Rebecca ? '' 
`` No indeed , '' said she , exultingly ; `` I am higher in her esteem than ever . '' 
so she may tell you , '' cried Mrs. Littleton ; `` but I will answer for it she was tired of your company , or she would never have sent you away before her ; so there is an end of your fine hopes , Miss Becky . '' 
It was with the utmost uneasiness that Rebecca beheld her mother thus prejudiced against her . 
She endeavoured to recollect if any inadvertant expression , in any of her letters , had given her cause of offence ; and , in hopes to conciliate her good humour , she , in the evening , opened her trunk , and presented her mother with the silk before-mentioned . 
She received it sullenly , and laying it down , without scarce deigning to look at it , said , `` This is no time to think of fine clothes , child , though in my heart I believe your thoughts never run on any thing else but dress , and fashion , and nonsense . '' 
The truth was , that if Rebecca had a foible it was a passion for fashionable dress ; but this was never carried to an extreme , and , though remarkably attentive to the decoration of her person , she was never fine or tawdry . 
This ill-timed reproach of her mother 's filled her eyes with tears , and she retired to bed , but not to rest , her father 's illness , and the distance she then was from her benefactress , were such painful reflexions , that sleep was a stranger to her eyes till the morning began to dawn , when she enjoyed a few hours of composed slumber . 
To Mrs. Littleton he did not fail to recommend a tenderness of behaviour , that might tend to invite the confidence of Rebecca . 
Mr. Littleton could not believe any evil of his favourite , and died in her arms on the fifth day after her arrival , blessing her with his last breath . 
Sir Georgehad not really determined in his own mind whether he would address Rebecca on an honourable score , or merely endeavour to gain her affections , and then act as he should find , from her manner and dispositiou , she deserved . 
That day and the next he waited patiently in the hope of seeing her ; but on the third , when Harley returned , -LRB- for Lady Mary did not bring her home till that time -RRB- how great was his surprise and disappointment to hear that Rebecca had been sent for into the country to a relation that was ill ; for Mrs. Littleton 's letter arriving the day following Rebecca 's departure , it served as a sufficient apology for her absence , though indeed , Lady Mary did not think proper to enter into explanations with her woman , and rather misled her , by mentioning Bristol as the place where Rebecca 's sick friend was . 
In a few days Sir George left Twickenham , and immediately set out with post horses for Bristol , where both himself and Le Brun were extremely diligent in their inquiries , though the reader may easily imagine to how little effect : however , he still continued , and nourished the hope , that chance would , by some means or other , discover to him the residence of the fair Rebecca , for as he could not suppose the situation of her friend very splendid , he thought it needless to inquire for her among people of fashion ; but he desired his valet to be very minute in examining every house where they let lodgings . 
Three weeks had now elapsed since Rebecca 's departure , and Lady Mary was preparing to visit Lincolnshire , when , as she was conversing with her daughter , Lady Ossiter , one morning , she was suddenly seized with a fainting fit , which was succeeded by several others , and left her so weak and low , that the faculty called in thought her life in imminent danger . 
Alarmed at this intelligence , she desired Harley to write immediately for Rebecca to return , and , calling for pen and ink , determined no longer to delay making the poor girl independent ; but when she took the pen and attempted to write , her faintness returned , and she was totally unable to execute her purpose ; but resolved to do something for her , she called Lady Ossiter to her , and thus addressed her : `` There is a young woman , of the name of Littleton , who has been with me some months , though now she is in the country . 
When Rebecca received the news of her benefactress 's illness she flew to Audley Park . 
`` Your Lady is very ill , James , '' said she ; `` I must set off immediately for Twickenham . '' 
`` I will go the moment you can procure one , '' said she . 
When Mrs. Littleton sound Rebecca was determined to obey Harley 's summons , she conceived it was a high , an unpardonable breach of filial duty , for her to think of leaving a mother in so early a state of widowhood . 
Though Rebecca was greatly hurt by these unjust reproaches , it did not prevent her intended journey , and she set off that evening attended by James , and , indeed , in her own mind , firmly resolved , that nothing but absolute necessity should ever oblige her again to visit Lincolnshire , except it was in the company of Lady Mary . 
Rebecca hardly dared breathe as she went up stairs ; as she past her Lady 's dressing-room , she stopped , looked earnestly at Harley , and , laying her hand on her heart , cried : `` Tell me the truth : '' but her respiration became so difficult she could not finish the sentence . 
`` I feared so , '' cried Rebecca ; then turning into her own room , she sunk on the bed in a state of stupid insensibility , from whence it was difficult to rouse her . 
Rebecca raised her clasped hands to heaven , exclaimed , `` Thy will be done , '' and the salutary drops of sorrow gushed in a torrent from her eyes ! 
Harley was pleased to see them flow , and imagining to leave her to the free indulgence of them would be best , retired to inform Lady Ossiter -LRB- who had not yet left Twickenham -RRB- that Rebecca was arrived . 
`` I will see her in the morning , '' said her Ladyship , carelessly . 
`` My mother used to say she was handsome , '' cried her Ladyship , looking in the glass . 
`` Poor Rebecca , '' said Harley , softly , as she left her imperious Lady : `` Poor girl , you will see a sad change I fear . 
Whenthe mind of Rebecca became a little composed , Harley prevailed on her to take some refreshment . 
Rebecca said but little more , and Harley thinking the fatigue of her journey , and the agitation of her mind combined , might incline her to go early to rest , removed the supper table , and wished her a good night . 
No sooner was Rebecca alone than she gave way to a fresh burst of grief ; the loss of her father was again renewed , the unkindness of her mother was remembered with double anguish , and her own friendless situation struck so forcibly on her mind , that her sorrow became almost insupportable . 
At length her tears seemed exhausted ; a kind of torpid calm succeeded , and she formed the resolution of visiting the chamber that contained the deceased Lady Mary . 
He started involuntarily at beholding Rebecca . 
Her pensive attitude , her depressed countenance plainly depicted the sorrows of her heart ; the afflicted maid had not heard his approach . 
He drew near , and laid his hand on one of her 's . 
She raised her timid eyes , looked at him mournfully , pointed to the coffin , and cried , emphatically : `` She is gone for ever ! '' 
How great must be the contrast then between this unfeeling sister and the affecting sensibility of Rebecca ! 
He pressed her passive hand in silence , mingled his tears with her 's , and found his heart insensibly relieved . 
`` She is undoubtedly happy , '' said Rebecca , `` in some measure , forgetting her own sorrow , and wishing to convey consolation into the bosom of Sir George . '' 
Rebecca 's tears streamed afresh . 
said Rebecca , `` I never can forget her -- never wish it ; for the remembrance of her virtues will emulate me in the attempt to imitate them . '' 
She pressed her lips to those of her clay cold benefactress , faintly and tremulously pronounced the word `` farewell ! '' 
She did not even notice the entrance of Rebecca ; but thus continued her directions to the former of her tradeswomen : `` Let them be made as elegant and as full as possible ; but , at the same time , remember , I wish to pay every necessary respect to my dear mother . 
The accommodating mantua-maker agreed to all the Lady said , when , turning round to speak to her milliner , Lady Ossiter was struck by the elegant person , and modest humble countenance of Rebecca . 
I suppose , '' said she , carelessly , `` you are the young woman my poor mother mentioned in her last moments ? '' 
Rebecca courtseyed assent , but was unable to speak . 
Rebecca attempted to express her thanks ; but her emotions were so violent , she was forced to continue silent . 
`` I dare say , child , '' said her Ladyship , `` you have some taste in dress ; come , give me your opinion about the caps I have ordered . 
Rebecca was struck almost speechless with astonishment . 
said she , mentally , `` can this be the daughter of Lady Worthy ? '' 
`` But we can not always command our feelings , Madam , '' said Rebecca . 
`` Rebecca . '' 
`` Rebecca , that 's a queer old fashion name . 
I remember when my mother used to make me read the great Family Bible , I remember then reading about a Rebecca Somebody ; but , Lord ! 
`` I am sorry it does not please your Ladyship , '' said Rebecca , almost smiling at her absurdity ; `` but as I was christened by it I must be satisfied with it . '' 
`` Well , then , Rebecca , but what is your other name ? '' 
Well , but , Rebecca -LRB- for I like the name best on account of its oddity -RRB- should you have any objection to enter into my service ? '' 
Rebecca spoke with a degree of spirit that surprised Lady Ossiter : however , she unabashed , proceeded : `` I have two little boys and a girl ; I really have not time to attend them : now I could wish you to hear them read , give them some little knowledge of the French , and take care of Miss Ossiter 's clothes . 
Rebecca agreed to the terms , and , retiring to her apartment , left Lady Ossiter to finish her consultation with her milliner and mantua-maker -- while she took up her pen , and informed her mother that she had entered into a new line of life , in which she hoped to be enabled to do her duty , and gain the approbation of her Lady . 
Duringthe time that intervened between the death of Lady Mary and her interment , Sir George , though he frequently thought of Rebecca , made no attempt to see her , but satisfied himself with sending every day to inquire after her health . 
apropos , you know the young woman , Rebecca -- what 's her name ? 
She that my mother kept with her as a kind of companion . '' 
Sir George was perfectly astonished at his sister 's illbred expressions ; but willing to know in what manner Rebecca was provided for , simply asked the question . 
Rebecca will hear them read -- dress and undress Miss Ossiter -- make her frocks -- and upon occasion , assist my woman . '' 
`` I think , sister , '' said he , `` considering the place she held in our mother 's esteem , the situation you mean to give her is not paying that dear woman 's memory a proper respect ; besides , I do not think it probable , after having been treated as the companion of Lady Mary , Miss Littleton will feel herself satisfied with being only the servant of her daughter . '' 
`` I will send for her here , and you may ask her , '' said her Ladyship . 
`` Aye , that is the best way , '' said Lord Ossiter , ringing the bell ; for from Sir George 's evident agitation , he imagined there must be something extraordinary about Rebecca , and earnestly wished to see her . 
`` Tell Rebecca I want her , '' said the Lady to the servant who entered the room . 
`` Rebecca Littleton can never look like a fool , Madam , '' cried Sir George , with vehemence , `` and since you persist in sending for her , you will excuse me if I do not stay to see Lady Ossiter render herself ridiculous , by insulting a woman every way her superior , but in the paltry distinction of fortune . '' 
He then left the room , shutting the door after him with violence , and in a few moments Rebecca entered . 
Modesty had recalled to her cheeks the rosy hue which grief had chaced from them . 
Her fine eyes were timidly raised from the ground to her Lady 's face , while , with a gentle inclination of the body , and a voice of softest harmony , she requested to know her commands . 
`` But you are quite satisfied , Rebecca ? '' 
`` Well , that 's all , '' cried her Ladyship , in a half peevish accent . 
Rebecca courtseyed , and retired . 
`` Well , and what do you think of her , my Lord , '' cried the Lady , turning to her husband ; `` why you seem in amaze ! '' 
`` Not if I might advise , my dear ; for I declare I never saw you look better than you do this morning ; and , in my opinion , women inclined to em bon pointhave more dignity in their persons than the very slender ; for instance , now your Rebecca ; she will always remind me of Death and Daphne . '' 
Her Ladyship did not take the keenness of the sarcasm , and retired , to give some orders to her woman , perfectly satisfied that Rebecca was infinitely inferior to herself in personal attractions ; while her artful husband applauded himself for the part he had acted , which he naturally imagined would secure , within the reach of his power , a woman whose charms had made such an impression on his mind , that he was resolved , if possible , to sacrifice her a victim to seduction . 
WhenSir George left the parlour , he retired to his own apartment , and calling for pen and ink , addressed the following letter to Rebecca : `` With a heart fully sensible of the merit of the object I presume to address , how is it possible but I must also be sensible of the fear of offending her ? 
`` I am , with every token of esteem and respect , your friend , Rebecca could not read this letter without emotion ; yet did she not hesitate what answer to return ; the letter itself she carefully locked up in her cabinet , but the bank-bills she sealed up in the following note : `` Rebecca Littleton returns her most grateful acknowledgments to Sir George Worthy for the kind solicitude he evinces for her happiness . 
She begs leave to return his noble present , which she can not think of accepting , as it would lay her under an obligation too oppressive to a spirit which Sir George is mistaken in thinking humble . 
Rebecca feels herself highly satisfied in the protection of Lady Ossiter , and , though she feels grateful for the offered friendship of the son of her ever-lamented benefactress , she must beg leave to decline it , as the vast distance fortune has placed between them renders it impossible to cultivate true friendship , which can only subsist between persons on an equality with each other . 
Rebecca wishes to be retained in the memory of Sir George only as the servant of his sister , and , at the same time , assures him , the son of Lady Mary Worthy will ever be retained in her mind with servent wishes for his happiness . '' 
When she had sent away this note , she again read over Sir George 's letter ; a tear , almost unknown to herself , fell on it as she perused with attention his offers of friendship : but she soon recollected herself , hastily brushed away the token of her weakness , and , returning the letter to her cabinet , began to prepare for her removal to town , whither Lady Ossiter intended returning the next day . 
said Sir George , as he read Rebecca 's note . 
As he entered the room , he saw Rebecca busily employed in retouching a small drawing that lay before her , and he observed , that she frequently looked at a portrait of his mother that hung over the chimney . '' 
`` By no means , Sir , '' cried Rebecca , rising , visibly embarrassed ; `` I was just going . 
`` Stay one moment adorable Rebecca , cried Sir George , stopping her as she was about to leave the room . 
`` Hold , hold , dear Sir George , '' cried Rebecca , pale and trembling , `` I must hear no more . 
The humble Rebecca Littleton , however sensible of your merits , can never be your wife ; insurmountable obstacles are placed between us . '' 
`` If your bosom , lovely Rebecca , glows with sensibility , every obstacle is easily removed . '' 
`` Do not interrupt me , '' said she . 
Sir George dropped her hand , and , with a look of mingled horror and surprise , cried , `` Are you already married ? '' 
`` No , '' replied she , faintly , `` not married . '' 
said Rebecca , with a look of tenderness , `` heaven knows I do not . 
`` Then we may yet be happy , '' said he , catching her in his arms . 
Rebecca 's heart had almost betrayed her ; but she was sensible this must be the moment of victory . 
She pushed him from her , and assuming an air of reserve , `` Sir George , '' said she , `` if you wish my happiness , there is but one way by which you can promote it , that is , by never more speaking to me on this subject ; my fate is irrevocably fixed ; cease then to disturb my felicity by endeavouring to awaken my sensibility . 
I hope , sincerely , you will soon meet a woman your equal , in birth , fortune , and merit , who will obliterate from your mind all traces of Rebecca ; and may you , united by the most sacred ties , enjoy in her society every blessing that heaven can bestow , or you desire . '' 
`` No , Rebecca , no ; do not indulge so vain an idea , for while you live , and remain unmarried , never shall the hymenial torch be lighted by me . '' 
cried Rebecca , forcing a smile , `` you talk wildly ; we shall hear you tell a different tale shortly . '' 
He held it towards her . 
She put his hand back , and said , in a tone of displeasure , `` I can accept no diamonds , Sir George , and , for heaven 's sake , detain me no longer here . 
She then courtseyed slightly , and retired to her apartment , where conscious rectitude alone alleviated the pangs of disappointed love . 
`` Yes , '' said she , `` I have done right ; an union with Sir George would by no means secure me permanent felicity ; he is young , volatile , and possessed of violent passions . 
said Mrs. Lappett to Rebecca , the evening of her arrival in Bedford-Square . 
She had lived with Lady Ossiter from the time of her marriage , and not , without envy , beheld Rebecca introduced into the family , as she feared she might have a gown or two the less in a year , or , perhaps , Rebecca might supplant her intirely . 
This jealousy made her resolve to cultivate an intimacy with the unsuspecting girl , and be the most forward in showing her civilities , that she might win her confidence , draw from her her real opinion concerning her Lady , and then betray her . 
said she , as she was taking her tea in Rebecca 's apartment . 
`` I hardly know what to think yet , '' replied Rebecca . 
`` I think it is very wrong , '' said Rebecca , in the simplicity of her heart , `` for mothers to make any distinction in their regard for their children ; and I shall consider myself doubly obliged to be kind and affectionate to Miss , if her mamma is unkind to her . '' 
`` He is well enough , '' said Rebecca , carelessly ; `` but Sir George Worthy is , in my opinion , a great deal handsomer . '' 
cried Rebecca , with a look of surprise , `` what since he has been married ? '' 
She courtseyed , ironically tossed her head , and left Rebecca to the enjoyment of her own reflexions , while she entertained her fellow servants with the pride , conceit , and ignorance of the new comer . 
At least Mrs. Lappett had resolved , in her own mind , to use every exertion to displace Rebecca from a family where , she was fearful , her beauty , innocence and worth , would attract the notice of one , whose devoirs she considered as entirely due to herself . 
For , to own the truth , Mrs. Lappett had not been quite so deaf to the proposals of her Lord as she had represented to Rebecca , though she rather made a mistake in saying his Lordship had offered a settlement , that being a measure earnestly desired by herself , but which she could find no means to bring Lord Ossiter into : indeed , he had found her too easy a conquesty to indulge a thought of putting himself to much expence or trouble on her account . 
The next morning , when Lady Ossiter had breakfasted , she went immediately to the nursery , a thing she had not been known to do for many months before ; but Rebecca was a novelty , and therefore demanded from her Lady some little attention ; as Rebecca had been told that her Lady seldom , if ever , came into the children 's apartment , the visit was intirely unexpected , and Lady Ossiter , found her busily employed in arranging some pencils and crayons in a small , but elegant , drawing box , which had been given her by her late benefactress . 
Rebecca , who had about two hours before seen them all neatly dressed , and given them their breakfast , opened the adjoining room to call them , when how great was her surprise when she saw the eldest boy , who was eight years old , with two or three colour-shells before him , several brushes , and a bason of water , with which he had not been satisfied to daub several sheets of paper , and his own clothes , but also his brother and sister 's hands , faces , and frocks ! 
`` I shall for the future mind them , '' said Rebecca , attempting to take the brushes from Master Ossiter . 
Rebecca persisted in removing from his reach the shells and water , when setting up a scream like a bed-lamite , he threw one , which he had retained in his hand , full in her face ! 
I had hoped , indeed , that you , Rebecca , would have managed them better than to have had all this uproar ; but I see servants are all alike ; they have no more notion of the management of children than natural fools : why , I will answer for it , if I had time , I could make these children do just as I please , without any of this roaring . 
`` Well , go , my dear , go to Rebecca and have your face washed , and you shall go out in the coach , and buy some more paints . 
I will hear them read another time ; poor dears , they have been vexed enough this morning : '' then taking her favourite 's hand , to lead him out of the room , she stopped , and picked up two or three of Rebecca 's drawings . 
-- `` Here , my love , '' said she , `` ask your maid to give you these pretty pictures . '' 
Rebecca was too meek to contradict , and he marched off with her two best performances in his hand . 
In about ten minutes a footman tapped at the door , to inform Rebecca that the chariot waited , and that she must go to her Lady 's dressing-room for Master Ossiter . 
Rebecca , who had been accustomed to peace and regularity , was distracted by the hurry and confusion she had been thrown into ; but flattering herself it would be better next day , she made all the haste she could , and repaired to the dressing-room , where , on a sofa , beside his mamma , sat the delectable Master Ossiter , with a pair of gold-bowed scissars , cutting the houses , trees , and figures , from her drawings , which her Ladyship was amusing herself by placing in a kind of fantastic medley on the table before her . 
`` See , Rebecca , '' cried she , we have dispatched these pretty pictures , I dare say , a deal quicker than you made them . '' 
Rebecca smiled faintly ; but she felt a cold chill strike to her heart . 
`` Look at that poor man , my dear , '' said Rebecca ; `` he would be very thankful for a small part of your money ; suppose you was to give him a shilling ? '' 
said he , staring in her face ; `` mamma never gives any thing to poor folks ; she says they should be all sent to prison , and made work . '' 
Miss Ossiter put her little hand instinctively into her pocket . 
Then approaching Rebecca , in a kind of half whisper , `` If you , ma'am , will give the poor man half a crown , I will ask my uncle for one to pay you with the first time I see him . '' 
Rebecca gazed on the child as she was speaking , and she fancied she beheld her grandmother 's benevolence play about her infant countenance . 
-- She caught her in her arms , gave the desired half crown , and joy for a moment animated her bosom , when she beheld both the beggar and his little benefactress look equally happy . 
A Few days after this Lady Ossiter sent for Rebecca , in haste , to her dressing-room . 
`` But your ladyship is in mourning , '' said Rebecca , blushing for her lady 's folly . 
`` Do it according to your own taste , Rebecca , and I am sure it will be pretty . '' 
The good natured Rebecca was willing to please to the utmost of her power , but , alas , that power was far from adequate to the many tasks imposed upon her . 
Mrs. Lappett was a great favourite , therefore often asked leave to go out , and then Rebecca was summoned to attend the toilette of her lady , and indeed her taste and judgment in the arrangement of female ornaments was so elegant , that Lady Ossiter never appeared to greater advantage than when dressed by her hands . 
Then was a morning cap to be made , or a dress fresh trimmed , they were all brought to Rebecca ; and did her Ladyship ever ask for any thing that was not ready , the answer was , indeed , my Lady , I gave it to Rebecca , two or three days ago , but she is such a fine lady , and spends so much time at her book and her music . 
Mrs. Lappett would , if in the least indisposed , retire to rest , and leave Rebecca to sit up for her lady , who was addicted to the fashionable vice of gaming , and often was from home till four , five , nay sometimes fix o'clock in the morning ; and when she had ill luck , would return in the most diabolical humour , and vent that spleen which politeness obliged her to conceal in company , on her meek unoffending attendant ; indeed to such height did she often suffer her passion to rise , that Rebecca , on hearing the knocker announce her arrival , would fall into such a fit of trembling , that she was scarcely able to stand , while she undressed her . 
But the reader must not suppose that , during this period , either Sir George or Lord Ossiter had forgot her ; the former had written her several letters , which she returned unopened ; for , said she , conscious as I am of my own weakness , why should I wilfully expose it to trials it may not be able to withstand . 
At length , wearied out with her inflexible resolution , he determined to take a trip to the continent , and endeavour to banish her from his thoughts ; but before he went , he determined at least to put it in her power to leave his sister whenever her situation became painful , without being obliged to have recourse to servitude again . 
Lord Ossiter had made frequent attempts to see and converse with Rebecca , but she was so much in the apartment with the children , or in her lady 's dressing room , with Lappett , that he found it more difficult than he at first imagined , and he was too cautious in his affairs of gallantry to use pen and paper . 
One morning , as Rebecca was intently engaged in completing the trimming we have mentioned , Mrs. Harley unexpectedly entered the room . 
A faint gleam of pleasure animated the countenance , and beamed from the eyes of Rebecca , as she arose to receive this faithful servant of Lady Mary 's . 
Struck with her palid cheeks and altered air , Harley first brushed off a starting tear and then disclosed her errand -- `` I come , my dear Miss , from my good young master -- '' `` If to bring me a letter , '' said Rebecca , interrupting her , `` I must beg you to excuse me -- '' `` My dear child , '' said Harley , `` do n't fly out in this manner , but listen to me attentively ; I have children of my own , Miss Littleton , and heaven forbid I should ever advise a young innocent creature to a wrong step ; trust me , I am actuated only by friendship , when I entreat you to inform me what motives you have for thus obstinately refusing the offers of a man of rank and fortune , who loves you honourably and sincerely . '' 
my friend , '' cried Rebecca , her head falling on Harley 's shoulder , and her eyes filling with tears ; I am unhappy because I am not insensible . '' 
`` She had no foible , '' said Rebecca ; `` it was a wish to insure my felicity alone , prompted the request . '' 
Rebecca turned pale , and Harley continued . 
Rebecca took it , pressed it to her lips , and , tying the ribbon that was fixed to it round her neck , placed it as a sacred deposit in her bosom . 
She also took the bank note and put it in her pocket book , but secretly resolved that nothing but the severst necessity should tempt her to break into it . 
When Monday arrived , Rebecca could not avoid approaching the window at the sound of every carriage that drew up to the door . 
`` He will not surely leave England , '' said she , `` without taking leave of his sister . '' 
About two o'clock she saw his chariot draw up to the door , and , half concealing herself behind the window shutter , gazed on him , and breathed a prayer for his felicity , as she saw him alight . 
In about half an hour she was desired to bring Miss Ossiter and Master James into the drawing-room . 
She took them to the door , opened it and put them in , but her feelings were too powerful to permit her to enter . 
`` Rebecca lent it me , '' said she , still lowering her voice , `` to give a poor man . '' 
`` Rebecca , what Rebecca ? '' 
`` Why , Rebecca , '' replied the child ; `` my own maid Rebecca , that teaches me to read and say my prayers , and tells me if I am good I shall go to heaven . '' 
Rebecca caught the glance ; the impulse was irresistible ; she threw up the sash . 
Rebecca laid her 's on her heart , then raised them towards heaven , as she would have said , `` God bless you . '' 
`` Drive on , '' said Sir George , and again bowing his head to hide his emotions from the servants , a moment conveyed him from her sight . 
But Lord Ossiter had frequently given her a few pretty plain hints in regard to her conduct with her noble admirer , and therefore , though she had resolved to see him , she thought it would be best to do it privately , and Lappett being unfortunately gone to visit a sick brother in the country , she was obliged to make Rebecca her considante on the occasion , and immediately , on retiring from breakfast , she summoned her to her dressing-room . 
`` Rebecca , child , '' said she , as she entered , `` I think I have not given you any thing since you have been with me , and you have done more than half of Lappett 's business for her ; there is that blue satin gown and coat , you may take it , and as it is rather soiled , here is something to pay for the dying and making up , presenting her with a couple of guineas . 
`` I am happy it pleases you , Madam , '' said Rebecca : `` but I thought you were saying you would have it altered . '' 
No , I was going to tell you of a strange whim I had taken to play a trick with the old Duke of -- ; for , do you know Rebecca , the man makes downright love to me whenever he meets me , and the other day , when he was here , he left behind him these superb bracelets . 
`` Would it not be better to send them to him , '' said Rebecca . 
`` Oh , no , that will not do half so well , for then , I should not have the satisfaction of seeing his chagrin , so , Rebecca , you shall take a note , which I will write , and send it , unknown to any of the other servants , and when his grace comes he shall come disguised , and pass for your brother , and you can bring him to my dressing-room . '' 
`` Your Ladyship will pardon me , '' said Rebecca , laying the two guineas on the table , `` I am not fit to engage in such a service ; I would much rather decline it . '' 
said her Ladyship , reddening ; `` pray are you not my servant ? '' 
`` Prithee , good madam pert , '' said her Ladyship , scornfully , `` do not pretend to more delicacy and virtue than your betters . 
Rebecca retired , and for this once the pain her lady 's anger gave her was more than counterbalanced by the reflexion that she had acted right in rejecting the infamous service she would have employed her in . 
Contrary to her Lady 's expectation , Rebecca had scarcely reached her own apartment when Lappett returned , and entered the dressing-room , to receive Lady Ossiter 's command . 
`` Well , Lappett , '' said she , `` you are returned in very good time , for I have been so grossly affronted by that little prude , Rebecca , that I can hardly contain my anger ; do you know the impertinent creature had the audacity to refuse getting me a note conveyed to the Duke of -- ; though I had condescended to inform her that my intentions were only to laugh at him . 
The obsequious abigail took the note , conveyed it herself , and at eight o'clock in the evening his Grace was admitted to her Lady 's dressing-room . 
But it was the opinion of Rebecca , that every truly virtuous woman should carefully avoid even the appearance of indiscretion , especially those whose elevated stations might render their examples infinitely pernicious to their inferiors : she therefore felt herself greatly hurt by Lady Ossiter 's want of prudence , and flattered herself the repulse she had met from her would prevent her making her designs known to any other servant , and she readily imagined Mrs. Lappett would be as unwilling as herself to engage in the busness ; so when informed she was returned , Rebecca found herself somewhat relieved , as she knew she should avoid the painful task of dressing a woman whom she feared The obsequious abigail took the note , conveyed it herself , and at eight o'clock in the evening his Grace was admitted to her Lady 's dressing-room . 
While the Duke and her Ladyship were together , the artful Lappett thought she would just step in and hear what Rebecca had to say on the subject , for , by her specious appearance of friendship , she had so won on the unsuspicious heart of our heroine , that she never scrupled to communicate to her every thought as it arose , except those which concerned Sir George , -LRB- and those she endeavoured to conceal , if possible , even from herself . -RRB- 
`` We did not quite agree , '' said Rebecca , slightly , `` but I dare say she has forgot it by this time ; I am sure I do not wish to remember it . '' 
`` Extremely so , '' replied the artless Rebecca ; `` besides which , he is cruel , mischievous , and a great liar , and these things should be corrected in time , or he will be as despicable when a man , as he is now disagreeable as a child . '' 
Lappett returned to her Lady and not only repeated but exaggerated every thing which Rebecca , in the simplicity of her heart , had uttered . 
Rebecca , wearied with the fatigue and vexation of the day , thought she might this evening safely indulge , in a relaxation , which she had not enjoyed since her residence in Lady Ossiter 's family , which was to practice a few hours on the harpsicord . 
Rebecca , too much terrified to scream , could only endeavour to disengage herself , and turning round , beheld Lord Ossiter . 
`` Gracious heaven , '' cried Rebecca , bursting into tears , `` to what am I exposed . '' 
Lord Ossiter had but an indifferent opinion of female delicacy ; he thought the word virtue very pretty in the mouth of a pretty woman , but as to the reality existing in the heart , he thought no woman possessed so large a share but money , jewels , and flattery could lull it to sleep ; how astonished was he then to find , upon taking a few liberties with Rebecca , she shrunk instinctively from him , shrieked faintly , and , staggering a few paces toward the door , fell lifeless to the floor . 
Terrified , he caught her from the ground , and ringing the bell with violence , began to tear open her gown and handkerchief , in order to give her air . 
Then placing her on a sofa , he seated himself beside her , and rested her head on his shoulder . 
But Lappett was not to be deceived : she had heard him utter words of tenderness , and was sufficiently convinced Rebecca was her rival . 
`` The creature is so affected , '' said she , `` I declare there is no bearing her , but I assure your Lordship I have something else to do than to wait on the dear lovely girl . '' 
Rebecca was now recovering , and , raising her head , she caught hold of Lappett 's gown , as she turned to leave the room , and exclaimed , `` Do not leave me , stay , save me , take me from this place . '' 
`` Indeed , Madam , I am in a hurry , '' cried Lappett , twitching her gown from the feeble grasp of Rebecca , and flung out of the room , audibly saying , `` Her Lady should be informed what sort of a person she had in her family . '' 
Rebecca arose , disengaged herself from his Lordship 's arms , who no longer attempted to detain her , and with trembling steps returned to her apartment . 
`` What are you talking of , Lappett , '' said her Ladyship , with the greatest composure , `` I protest you seem out of your senses . '' 
`` I am , my Lady , almost , for when I reflect on so kind , so good a Lady as yourself being treated in such a barbarous manner : why , Madam , after you were gone last night , I went up to see if Rebecca was doing the dress your Ladyship said you would wear on Thursday , and I could not find her ; however , as I knew she sometimes went to the library when you were not at home , and staid and read for two or three hours , I sat down and began a little of it myself , but , after working till past twelve o'clock , I thought it was very odd where she could be , so I went down the back stairs , thinking perhaps I should find her in the housekeeper 's room , but as I past the little music parlour , I heard the sound of voice and opening the door , what does your Ladyship think , I discovered , I thought I should have swooned away , for there sat Rebecca , fast locked in my Lord 's arms , and her head leaned on his shoulders . '' 
But though Lady Ossiter had thus bridled her passion while talking to her infamous confidante , she no sooner saw the innocent Rebecca , than she vented on her that torrent of abuse fear had prevented her from pouring on the other . 
Artful infamous strumpet , were her elegant expressions , to pretend to such resinement of sentiment , and yet be guilty of such glaring faults . 
In vain Rebecca wept , and called on heaven to witness her innocence ; even when kneeling , she requested not to be bereaved of her only refuge , an unblemished character . 
Lord Ossiter , prepared as he was to meet her anger , was unable to bear the illiberal abuse with which she loaded him ; he therefore satisfied himself with telling her , when she practised the duties of a wife , he would begin to study those of a husband ; till then , she had no right to complain , and left her to compose her spirits , as she could , while he inquired of his valet what he knew concerning Rebecca . 
He soon learnt , by inquiries being made among the servants , that Rebecca was dismissed , and that she had taken a place in the Lincolnshire stage , in order to return to her mother . 
This was sufficient intelligence for his Lordship , and he began to plan schemes for getting her in his power . 
When Rebecca came to take leave of the children , her feelings were undescribable . 
Miss Ossiter hung about her neck ; even Charles and James begged her not to they would be good boys and never vex her by behaving ill again . 
She embraced them all tenderly , and with a heart almost broken , got into a hackney-coach , which took her to the inn from whence the stage set out . 
She asked to be shown to an apartment , and ordered some trifle for her supper , then sitting down by a little solitary fire , began to reflect on her vexations , nor did she consider it as the least , that she was obliged to return to her mother who had written to her but twice during her residence in London , and even those letters were short and cold . 
Rebecca could not help considering the possession of this portrait , at this period , as an invaluable treasure , and in her own breast solemnly vowed never to part from it . 
She indulged herself in gazing on it while she sat up , and she retired to bed , laid it on her pillow , and fell into a composed slumber , which lasted till called at four o'clock to join the passengers in the coach . 
Refreshed and comforted by the rest she had taken , Rebecca arose with alacrity to pursue her journey , and nothing material occurred till they had proceeded upwards of fifty miles from town , when the coach was overtaken by a post-chaise and four , in which was a man , who stopped the coachman and asked if there was not a young person within side of the name of Littleton . 
`` Yes , '' cried Rebecca , innocently looking out of the window , `` my name is Littleton . '' 
Rebecca 's heart , formed for the warmest affection , beat high when she heard of her little favourite 's illness . 
The ill treatment she had experienced from Lady Ossiter was instantly forgot , and she thought only of returning as quick as possible to attend the dear little girl . 
Itwas very late when Rebecca entered London , and she was not enough acquainted with the streets to know whether she was going right or wrong ; therefore , when the chaise stopped in a large square , she jumped eagerly out and ran into the house , without once considering whether she knew the place ; but when she had got in the hall and the door was shut , just as she was going to run up stairs , the staircase , which was different to the one she had been used to , struck her , and turning hastily round to demand why she was brought to a strange place , she the parlour door open , and in an instant Lord Ossiter was at her feet . 
said she , `` where am I ? 
`` If that is all , '' cried Rebecca , scarcely able to respire , through terror , assure yourself I have forgiven you , my Lord , and will pardon the deceit you have been guilty of , if you will suffer me instantly to quit this house , where every moment I remain fills me with anguish and terror . '' 
`` Why do you wish to quit this house , my dear angel , '' said he , forcibly leading her into the parlour ; `` it is your own , every thing in it is your 's ; all the servants are ready to obey your commands . '' 
Then ringing the bell , he ordered all the servants to appear , and bid them consider Rebecca as their mistress , and obey her , as they valued his future favour . 
cried she , fervently raising her eyes and hands , `` my innocence unsullied , and my integrity of mind unshaken . '' 
cried she , in an agony , `` I see , unless some protecting angel hovers over me , I am threatened with the worst of dangers . 
`` Whither would you go , my dear creature at this late hour ; if you quit this house no reputable door will open to receive you , and I am sure , my sweet Rebecca would not enter a house of infamy . '' 
`` My lovely girl , do but compose your agitated spirits , and every thing will appear to you in a different light ; let me send your own woman to you , she shall wait on you to your own apartment , where I beg you will take some refreshment , and endeavour to repose yourself ; I swear to you , Rebecca , I will not enter your chamber till you give me leave . '' 
cried Rebecca , `` what will become of me ? '' 
Rebecca for a few moments stood irresolute ; at length she determined to go up stairs with the woman , and by a pretended calmness , endeavoured to sound her principles , and whether she was entirely devoted to the interest of her Lord . 
When she was in the apartment which the woman called her own , she sat down on a sofa , and calmly inquired who slept in the adjoining apartment . 
said Rebecca , with assumed indifference . 
said Rebecca , with a scrutinizing look . 
She looked , as she spoke , earnestly in the woman 's face : it was an entreating , supplicating look , and the tears gushed from her eyes . 
She paused , her eyes filled , and Rebecca began to hope she should find a friend that would assist her in escaping the artful snare spread by Lord Ossiter , to entrap her innocence . 
Mrs. Harris , finding her remain silent , left the room , and in about ten minutes returned with a boiled chicken , which she entreated Rebecca to take part of before she retired to rest . 
`` I am totally unable to take any rest , '' said Rebecca ; `` but where is my Lord ? '' 
`` Or rather to be my jailers , '' said Rebecca ; '' `` but come , Mrs. Harris , -LRB- for she had inquired her name -RRB- come sit down , and if you will partake my supper , I will endeavour to eat some . 
Perhaps you have a mother , Miss. '' `` I have , '' replied Rebecca , her thoughts instantly reverting to her dear native village . 
She answered in the affirmative . 
said she , wildly ; `` I have no husband . 
`` I believe it was so , '' said she , `` but that aunt of mine is a sad woman , for though I thought I was married , it was all a falsehood . 
`` Look , Lucy , '' said she , to one of her companions , `` would you not almost swear that was Mr. Smith . '' 
The tears that sell from Mrs. Harris 's eyes encouraged Rebecca . 
She slid from her seat on her knees before her . 
`` And can you , my dear Mrs. Harris , '' said she , in a most persuasive tone of voice , `` Can you , who have felt so much for a child , behold a poor forlorn creature , who , unless you help her , must be inevitably lost -- plunged into that abyss of guilt and misery which must sink her beneath the regard of every virtuous person . 
Mrs. Harris knew where she should find a stand of nightcoaches , and proceeding there without molestation , they got into one , and drove to a decent looking house in the Borough , the mistress of which readily admitted them , and Rebecca having offered up her thanksgiving to the protector of innocence , retired to a homely but clean bed , and enjoyed several hours of uninterrupted repose . 
WhenRebecca awoke she found herself greatly refreshed , and arose with a heart deeply impressed with gratitude to Mrs. Harris , who had thus unexpectedly delivered her from the worst of all evils . 
Rebecca addressed a letter to her mother , briefly informing her she had left her Lady and was in quest of another place . 
That she had at first intended to return home , and to that end had forwarded her trunk , which she requested might be sent to town again by the first conveyance . 
In about four days she received the following answer . 
`` I am sorry to find you have left Lady Ossiter as I imagine you must have grossly offended her Ladyship before she could have parted with you , as you was such a favorite with her mother ; however , Rebecca , you chose to leave your father 's house , and to conduct yourself by the advice of strangers , you therefore know best child , what you are about ; I shall not take upon me to advise , where my advice will be disregarded . 
I shall always be glad to hear of your welfare ; above all things , Rebecca , be modest and virtuous , and mind your religious duties , as your poor father and I always taught you ; and never forget that you have a mother who loves you , and to whom all your duty and respect is due . 
Rebecca 's sensations , on the receipt of this letter , are better imagined than described . 
Scarcely fix months had elapsed since the death of her father , and her mother was married again -- that mother , who , but a short time since , had declared , that to be suspected capable of admitting a second partner , was an insult that hurt her feelings excessively . 
Rebecca now felt that she was in reality a poor solitary being , without a home , and almost without a friend ; to be sure Mrs. Harris had been very kind to her , but could she expect that kindness to last when she had lost the power of making her any recompense . 
cried Rebecca , `` there was the greatest part of my clothes , and a five hundred pound bank note , which I had to keep for a person who is gone abroad . '' 
`` No , '' cried Rebecca , resolutely , `` never ; I can not bring myself to suspect that my mother would unite herself to a man capable of such an action , and if that were really the case , I hope I have too high a sense of silial respect to attempt exposing her to the malicious censures of a world , who would not fail to involve her , however innocent , in her husband 's guilt . 
Mrs. Harris mentioned Rebecca 's intentions , and learnt that there was a country lady , then on a visit to this family , who had parted with her maid , and was in want of one to supply her place . 
Rebecca thought she could venture to take such a situation in a regular quiet family . 
She was introduced to the Lady , who , struck with her lovely person and modest demeanour , conceived an instant prepossession in her favour , and engaged her , upon liberal terms , to enter her service on that day week . 
Rebecca selt extremely happy that she should no longer be a burden upon the kind Mrs. Harris , and eagerly set about preparing as well as the narrow state of her finances would allow , to take possession of her new place . 
Mrs. Barton -LRB- the name of Rebecca 's mistress -RRB- was a pleasing lively brunette , about twenty years old . 
She had married , when very young , contrary to the advice of her friends , a young man of small fortune and rather flightly character , but she had twenty thousand pounds at her own disposal , and her motto was , `` All for love . '' 
With this couple Rebecca went into Shropshire , a few weeks after she entered Mrs. Barton 's service . 
Rebecca found herself much at her ease , Mrs. Barton was very kind to her , and finding she possessed an intelligent mind , often made her the companion of her rambles about the grounds and adjacent country . 
Mr. Barton troubled his lady but little with his company , except at meals , and sometimes not then : nay , he even went so far as to sleep from home several nights in the week ; and this being a liberty he had never before taken , without his wife being informed of the cause , she felt herself really uncasy , and , though when he was present she assumed her usual cheerfulness , it was impossible to conquer her feelings , so as not to let her chagrin and mortification appear to Rebecca , who sincerely pitied , and by every affiduity in her power , endeavoured to amuse and entertain her . 
Mrs. Barton kept but little company ; she was fond of reading , drawing , music , and fancy works ; in these she discovered Rebecca 's taste and knowledge , and many was the heavy hour she beguiled in joining the labours of her lady , improving her judgment , and with the sweetest diffidence and humility correcting her errors . 
In the mean time Lord Ossiter provoked beyond measure , that a scheme he had imagined infallible , should have proved totally abortive , dispatched his faithful valet off to Lincolnshire , in hopes to find the fair fugitive there , and get her once more into his power ; but here he was again foiled ; for though Rebecca had wrote to her mother , that she had engaged with a Mrs. Barton , yet she had not mentioned in what part of the country the family usually resided , so that the faithful ambassador returned to his disappointed Lord without the least conciliatory intelligence . 
It was whispered from one to another , till at length it reached Mrs. Barton ; not from Rebecca , for she would not have told such a tale to a distressed wife , to obtain the highest consideration ; she would have feared the effect it would have had on her feelings , and agonized with the poor sufferer in idea a thousand times . 
`` Do you know child , '' said she to Rebecca , one day as she was assisting her to dress ; `` do you know , child , that this truant husband of mine is fallen in love with some chubby faced little chit in the neighbourhood , and prefers the company of her and her ignorant relations to my elegant society , and their hard bed and coarse sheets to his own made of down and covered with the finest holland : do you not think the man is turned fool ? '' 
She said this with such a smile of good humour that Rebecca looked ar her with amazement , and hesitatingly replied , `` he is certainly blind to his own happiness , Madam . '' 
Rebecca thought this an odd step , but she had a very high opinion of Mrs. Barton 's sense and prudence , and therefore prepared to attend her without intimating the least disapprobation of the scheme , which she certainly would have ventured to do , had she not been satisfied that her lady had some very good reasons for her conduct . 
`` What a lovely creature , '' said she , softly , to Rebecca ; `` how could Barton be so wantonly cruel as to contaminate the soul which animates this beauteous form . '' 
`` If we could save this poor girl , '' said she to Rebecca , when they were seated again in the carriage ; `` if we could save her and teach her the value of the gem she has unconsciously thrown away , we might then lead her back to virtue , and , spite of her errors , she may yet become a valuable member of society . '' 
Rebecca easily saw her Lady 's design , and almost trembled for the event , indeed Mrs. Barton herself could scarcely have been less agitated . 
`` Tea and supper was served without Mrs. Barton being any the better for them ; she became violently agitated ; Rebecca was summoned to attend her , but alas Rebecca could not comfort her . 
My good Rebecca leave me . '' 
But though his resolves , in regard to future constancy were seriously made , his heart was composed of such inflammable matter , that he no sooner began to contemplate the unassuming charms of Rebecca , which , from being much at home , he had now sufficient leisure to do , than he found himself puzzled to keep his good resolutions ; and being unaccustomed to combat his inclinations , he found this first attempt at self-conquest too painful to be persevered in : and Mrs. Barton , with anguish of heart , saw he was again relapsing into indifference and inconstancy . 
Rebecca too saw , with evident displeasure , the many opportunities he took of throwing himself in her way . 
It was sometimes impossible to avoid listening to him on a subject which filled her with disgust and sorrow . 
He offered her several valuable trinkets , which she resolutely refused to accept ; but at length his behaviour became so unequivocal , that Rebecca determined to quit her amiable mistress , however unwilling to relinquish a situation in which she had enjoyed so much tranquillity . 
`` You are a truly amiable girl , Rebecca , '' said she , `` and I will not part with you till I can recommend you to some person who will be sensible of your value . '' 
`` All places are alike to me , '' said Rebecca ; `` I have so very few friends who interest themselves at all in my welfare , that provided my mother gives her assent , I can have no objection to quitting a place where every tie is broken that once rendered it most dear to me . '' 
Rebecca was pleased with the proposal ; she waited on the lady with whom Miss Abthorpe had been educated , and was highly approved of , both by her and the young lady herself . 
The day after Rebecca entered Miss Abthorpe 's service she set off for London , where she was to join Mr. Seward 's family , who were to embark on board the same ship with her , and under whose protection she was to proceed to New-England . 
Poor Rebecca heartily wished herself on shore again , but sensible those wishes were unavailing , she confined them to her own bosom , and exerted herself to support the spirits of Miss Abthorpe , who , naturally delicate and unaccustomed to fatigue , was nearly exhausted with terror , consinement and hunger . 
Rebecca seated herself on her bed , Miss Abthorpe looked up in her face for comfort , but she had none to offer ; she sighed and rested her head on Rebecca 's shoulder . 
`` Trust in God , '' replied Rebecca , faintly , pressing her hand . 
Mr. Seward assented to the proposal , and they mounted the deck together ; but Rebecca and her young lady sat pensive and silent ; they hardly dared to hope , and the sweet comforts of religion forbade them to despair . 
`` I am afraid they have indeed , '' said Rebecca ; but `` do not you attempt to go on deck -- stay here and I will go and enquire . '' 
With tremulous and unequal steps after repeated attempts , Rebecca reached the gangway . 
She was just trying to mount the steps , when her intent was frustrated by a sudden motion of the ship , and she fell down . 
said she , as she slowly arose . 
`` God bless your pretty hearts , '' said the sailor , looking round at Rebecca , Miss Abthorpe , and the young Sewards , `` come fall too and lay in a good cargo for according to the log your are light enough now . '' 
, `` You have robbed yourselves , I fear , '' said Rebecca ; `` this was intended for your dinners . '' 
It was impossible to bring a boat near the vessel , but the tide beginning to leave her , the men waded into the water , and placed a ladder against her side , down which the fear of immediate death gave Miss Abthrope and Rebecca courage to descend ; but what were the feelings of Mr. Seward , when he found the impossibility of his little daughter 's going down , so dangerous was it rendered by the ice that enveloped the steps of the ladder , and from whence , if she fell , she must have been dashed to pieces or lost among the rocks ; nor did he dare to venture to descend himself with her in his arms , lest a false step or slip might destroy them both . 
A new world now opened on Rebecca , who , when she was a little recovered , beheld with astonishment how every object was bound in the frigid chains of winter . 
The harbour , which she could see from the house on the island , was one continued sheet of ice . 
The face of the country was entirely covered with snow , and from the appearance of all around she could form no probable hope of getting to Colonel Abthorpe 's till the genial influence of spring should unbind their fetters ; but in this she was agreeably mistaken , for the inhabitants of those cold climates being accustomed to the weather , were quick in expedients to facilitate their conveyance from one place to another . 
In this agreeable situation Rebecca remained nearly two years , enjoying as much felicity as she could expect in the friendship of Mr. and Mrs. Abthorpe and the affection of their amiable daughter . 
In the course of this time she had received two letters from Mrs. Barton , and one from her mother ; the former informed her , that her husband was entirely reclaimed , that she was the happiest woman in the creation , and that she hoped she should one day have Rebecca a witness to her felicity ; the contents of the latter was not so pleasing ; her mother complained of ill treatment from her daughter-in-law , and extravagance in her husband ; at the same time she informed her , she had just lain in of a boy , who she hoped would be the comfort of her old age . 
`` I wish to heaven he may , '' said Rebecca , then laying down the letter and reflecting how many leagues she was from her only surviving parent ; that perhaps she might be in heavy affliction , ill treated by those on whom she had placed the firmest reliance , laughed at by the world , and not unlikely pinched by poverty . 
It was a still morning about the latter end of July , when Rebecca , being disturbed by some little rustling at her window , raised her head , and by the saint dawn that just glimmered from the east , discovered armed men placed round the house . 
Alarmed , she started from her bed and awoke Miss Abthorpe ; they threw a few clothes over them and flew to the Colonel 's apartment . 
Rebecca now learnt that these were a part of the American army , who had come to N -- in whaleboats , with a design of dragging their boats across the beach before mentioned , and proceeding to the light house at the entrance of the harbour , intending to destroy it , in order to mislead the expected relief that was coming to Boston which was at that time blockaded : they had before made an unsuccessful attempt to demolish this light-house , and were now come resolved not to leave their work unfinished ; accordingly they proceeded as quiet as possible to the beach , almost carried their boats over , and arrived totally unexpected at the little island on which the light-house stood , and which was guarded by a party of marines . 
Rebecca was standing at a window as they relanded , the tears streaming down her pale face , and so entirely absorbed in terror that she was inattentive to the surrounding objects . 
From this state of torpor she was aroused by a deep groan , and raising her eyes , saw two Americans entering the house , bearing between them a wounded marine , whom they laid on the floor , and were preparing to depart , when Mrs. Abthorpe rushed out of the adjoining apartment . 
Rebecca knelt and supported him in her arms , assisted by the weeping Sophia . 
`` No doubt of it , '' cried Rebecca , whose heart was almost bursting as she listened to the expiring penitent . 
He looked round , and fixing his eyes on Rebecca and Sophia , `` Poor girls , '' said he , `` you are but young , take the advice of a dying sinner , and treasure it in your memories : obey your parents , never forsake them , and shun vicious company , for had I done this it would have been well with me in this evil day . '' 
Rebecca 's susceptible heart smote her , she hid her face with her handkerchief , and sighed deeply . 
Rebecca and Sophia with their delicate hands endeavourd to assist , and by evening they had completed it . 
He gave the prayer book to Sophia , she opened it , and with her mother and Rebecca followed the body . 
`` Ah , '' said Rebecca , mentally , `` I do not enjoy that serenity , for my mother , in affliction , in want , and calling in vain upon her daughter for comfort , is ever present to my imagination . '' 
This sad reverse of fortune was more than she could well support ; a slow nervous fever preyed upon her frame ; nor could the united efforts of her husband , Sophia and Rebecca , arouse her from the state of torpor and inaction into which she had fallen , cooped up in one single room -LRB- for , though prisoners , they had the liberty of walking about the place to which they been conveyed -RRB- obliged to perform the most menial offices for themselves , with scarcely the necessaries , and none of the comforts of life , except what was supplied from some few benevolent families who were friends to government . 
Rebecca and her young Lady , in the course of a few months , learned to manage their wheels , which they plied with diligence and dexterity , sometimes spinning cotton , sometimes wool or flax , rising with the lark , and continuing their labours with unremitting industry , till the shades of evening prevented their pursuing it . 
It was a cold evening , the snow fell fast , a very smal portion of fire glowed on the hearth , and the little light in their apartment proceeded from a small lamp that was placed on a deal table ; beside which sat Colonel Abthorpe , his head rested on his hand , his eyes fixed in mournful contemplation on the altered face of his beloved wife , who , seated opposite to him was diligently employed in knitting , while Rebecca and Sophia were in hopes , by the produce of their labours to small , verysmall share of comforts they `` I have felt it colder , '' replied his Lady , endeavouring at a smile ; `` besides the room is small , and a little fire warms it . '' 
`` To be sure , '' cried Sophia , `` and then , while I am at work , I never think of the cold ; but I am afraid of Rebecca ; she is more delicate than I am . '' 
Mrs. Abthorpe raised face , Sophia and Rebecca Colonel listened in silence , `` Our army is at present in want of experienced officers : You do not hold any commission under the King of England ? '' 
Sophia turned deathly pale , and left the room with Rebecca . 
me , '' said the weeping girl , turning to Rebecca , and resting her head on her shoulder . 
An open chaise , drawn by a miserable horse , was all the conveyance provided for Mrs. Abthorpe , Sophia and Rebecca ; the Colonel himself was expected to walk . 
Rebecca and Sophia assisted Mrs. Abthorpe to alight ; gloomy as was the outward appearance of their destined habitation , the inside served only to increase their horror ; it consisted of three rooms . 
Rebecca and Sophia felt round the damp solitary rooms for something on which Mrs. Abthorpe might sit down , for she was faint and weary from taking no refreshment during their tedious journey , and having been exposed to the intense cold so many hours ; but their search was vain , no seat could be found : they took off their own loaks , and laid them on the floor : On these she sunk weak and exhausted , and , in spite of her accustomed fortitude , suffering nature wrung from her a few complaints . 
-- Rebecca and Sophia knelt beside and supported her -- the voice of comfort no longer issued from their lips -- their sighs responsive answered her 's -- their tears mingled as they fell -- but all remained silent . 
In this dismal situation , with no amusement but what sprang from themselves , for they had not even the consolation of books , did the Colonel and his family pass four wearisome months , during which time they had of ten no food but coarse Indian bread and potatoes ; nor any firing but what Sophia and Rebecca assisted each other to bring in their delicate arms from the adjacent woods , for the Colonel himself was great part of that time consined to the house with the gout ; and in their daily excursions to procure this necessary appendage to the support of life in so cold a climate , they had no covering to their seet , which often bled from the intenseness of the cold , or from incisions made by the rugged path over which they were obliged to pass . 
It was the latter end of March , the ice was beginning to dissolve in the warmth of a mid day sun , when Rebecca , willing to enjoy a short space of uninterrupted reflection , sallied into the woods , unaccompanied by Miss Abthorpe . 
But that anguish of heart would from that hour be the unremitting portion of your Rebecca . '' 
`` I have not far to go , Sir , '' said Rebecca . 
`` I live in his family , '' said Rebecca , eagerly . 
`` Your features too , '' said Rebecca , `` seem samiliar to me , yet I do not think we ever met before . '' 
cried Rebecca , stepping eagerly forward . 
`` My name is Littleton , '' said Rebecca . 
Rebecca 's tears confirmed the suspicion . 
My dear girl , '' continued he , embracing her , `` how my heart bleeds to meet you here , and so badly sheltered from the inclemency of the seafon . 
When the first tumult was a little subsided , Rebecca wished to be informed how it happened that her uncle had been so long supposed dead by her father ? '' 
said Rebecca . 
Rebecca felt a gleam of comfort dilate her affectionate heart , at having thus unexpectedly found a relation : `` I am not then entirely unconnected , '' said she , mentally , at the same time laying her hand on that of her uncle , and looking at him with eyes swimming in tears of filial tenderness , excited by the strong resemblance he bore to her father . 
`` My dear girl , '' said he , `` you have found an old uncle who will love you with all his heart , and defend you to the last hour of his existence ; but I am as poor , Rebecca , as when I first put on his Majesty 's livery . 
But my pay has been running so long , we shall be quite rich when I get home , and you shall call me father , and make up to me the loss of my Rosa and her boy . '' 
`` I will be your daughter in every sense of the word , '' said Rebecca , affectionately kissing his hand . 
Here Mr. Littleton was immediately employed , and drew on his agent for money to provide himself and Rebecca with necessaries ; nor did he withhold part of his little store from Colonel Abthorpe , who was really in necessitous circumstances . 
Rebecca exerted herself to comfort poor Sophia ; but it was now become absolutely necessary for them to part . 
Colonel Abthorpe had not the means even of supporting himself and daughter , much less an extra person : Besides , Rebecca was eager to revisit England , and see her mother ; he therefore furnished her with recommendatory letters to several Ladies in London . 
Her uncle provided her a passage , and gave her an order on his agent for the small remainder of all his worldly wealth . 
She took an affectionate leave of her dear Miss Abthorpe , and embarked for her native land . 
She was removed , but Mrs. Harris herself occupied the house : Rebecca therefore , met a hearty welcome , and determined to take up her abode with her till she could hear from her mother , to whom she immediately wrote . 
Anxiously did she count the time till she thought it possible to receive an answer . 
At length the welcome sound of a postman 's rap saluted her ears . 
She almost flew to the door . 
The letter required double postage ; she paid it without hesitation , and hastily returned to the parlour to examine its contents ; but as she approached the candle , what were her feelings to discover it was her own letter returned , with these words written on the outside : -- `` Removed to London two years ago ! '' 
said Rebecca ; `` but what part of London ? 
But , perhaps , I have no mother now , '' continued she , mournfully : -- `` She has been removed two years ; alas ! 
She then endeavoured to recollect some person in her native village , to whom she could address herself , in hopes of gaining information whether her mother had mentioned what part of the town she intended to reside in . 
When Rebecca had finished reading this letter her mind was in a state of anarchy , better imagined than described . 
She sat with the letter open on the table before her -- her hands folded in each other -- her eyes fixed on vacancy . 
`` Well , what news , my dear , '' said Mrs. Harris , as she came into the room , and , without particularly observing Rebecca , very leisurely stirred the fire as she spoke to her . '' 
`` He is married , '' replied Rebecca unconsciously . 
said Mrs. Harris , staring at her ; `` to my certain knowledge she wrote you word of it herself . '' 
my mother , '' cried Rebecca , endeavouring to rally her scattered thoughts ; then , pausing for a moment , `` my poor mother , '' continued she , bursting into tears , I fear I shall never see her more . '' 
This was a conduct more congenial to the mind of Rebecca than the most eloquent harangue could have been . 
She rested her head on the bosom of her friend , gave a free vent to her tears , and , by degrees , regained a tolerable degree of composure . 
WhenRebecca had repelled the violence of her first emotions , on finding Sir George was really lost to her , her mother 's unfortunate marriage , and its consequences recurred to her mind , she retired to bed , but not to rest ; sleep was a stranger to her eyes , and her thoughts were so harrassed , that in the morning her heavy eyes , pale lips , and burning hands , alarmed Mrs. Harris . 
`` Indeed , Mrs. Harris , I have no cause to wish for life , '' said Rebecca , in a melancholy accent , `` for , in the whole world , I have no friend but you and my poor uncle ; him , perhaps , I shall never see again , and you , I fear , will grow weary of such a child of sorrow . '' 
`` Now you are very unkind , Rebecca , to suppose me capable of neglecting you , or being wearied by your complaints ! 
Mrs. Harris , '' cried Rebecca , `` pardon my petulance ; I see the friendly design of your advice , and will exert myself to follow it . '' 
She now began to look over her letters , and determined to wait that morning on Lady Winterton and Mrs. Sackville , who lived both in a street near Cavendish square . 
Rebecca 's dress was plain and neat in the extreme , yet there was a dignity in her person and manner that ever commanded respect : She , therefore , on knocking at Lord Winterton 's door , was immediately ushered into a parlour , and the servant took the letter to his Lady . 
The man departed , and Rebecca was desired to walk into a parlour , where in his night gown and slippers , sat a personage , the exact counterpart of Lord Ogleby in the Clandestine Marriage . 
Rebecca started , and was going to retire . 
Rebecca blushed , courtseyed , and took her seat . 
My Lord eyed her attentively . 
She felt her confusion increase . 
`` She is a very fine girl , '' thought his Lordship ; I wonder who the devil she is . '' 
thought Rebecca , `` what a ridiculous old man , with his bombastic compliment : However , I am glad he is old ; perhaps his Lady may want a person to read to her , or by cheerful assiduity , otherwise amuse her . 
In this family , '' thought she , `` should I be so happy as to be placed , I shall be free from the noise and impertinence so frequently to be met with in the families of young people of quality . 
As Rebecca was indulging these reflections the door opened , and a Lady entered , in appearance not more than twenty , habited in a very modish undress . 
`` Miss Littleton , I presume , '' said she , advancing -- Rebecca courtseyed . 
`` This thought Rebecca , is undoubtedly a daughter . '' 
`` Either situation would suit me , Madam , '' said Rebecca ; and if Lady Winterton could recommend me -- . '' 
The Lady laughed ; Rebecca blushed , and feared she had been guilty of some impropriety . 
`` Your Ladyship must pardon my ignorance , '' said the trembling , blushing Rebecca ; `` I really had no idea . '' 
`` Well , now he is gone , '' said her Ladyship , drawing her chair near Rebecca , `` let us have a little serious talk . 
Rebecca felt inclined to love this unfortunate young creature from the first moment she beheld her . 
A very few words served to settle every preliminary , and it was agreed that the very next day she should repair to her new situation . 
As the time allowed her was so very short , Rebecca thought she would make use of the rest of that day to deliver all the other letters ; `` for , '' said she , `` it is right that I should wait on these Ladies , though I am settled with Lady Winterton ; they may at some future period be of service to me . '' 
She accordingly repaired to Mrs. Sackville 's . 
Being shewn into the drawing-room , a tall , meagre figure presented itself , who scarcely deigned an inclination of the head as she took the letter , and , waving her hand , cried , `` Sit down young woman . '' 
`` They may have been misled , '' cried Rebecca , an enthusiastic ardour animating her expressive countenance ; `` but they are in general a brave , benevolent set of people . '' 
Rebecca 's eyes filled with tears . 
`` You will pardon me , Madam , '' said Rebecca , for this intrusion ; `` I did it merely in respect to the generous attention of Colonel Abthorpe , who furnished me with several letters ; but I have been so fortunate as to be engaged this very morning as companion to Lady Winterton . '' 
She then rang the bell , and Rebecca departed with no very high opinion of her good nature , whatever her other virtues might be . 
She then repaired into the city , and delivered the other two letters , but neither of the ladies were at home ; she therefore immediately proceeded to her lodgings , and informed Mrs. Harris of the success of her excursion . 
`` Surely , '' said Rebecca , `` she can not be abandoned to vice ; if her countenance is the index of her mind . '' 
On the evening of this day our heroine received a friendly letter from Mrs. Barton , who gave her a pressing invitation to visit her , and make her house her home : but Rebecca detested a state of dependence -- she therefore wrote a grateful return to this invitation , and acquainted her with her engagement with Lady Winterton . 
One morning Rebecca had accompanied her Lady to an auction , where they had scarcely been seated ten minutes before a very elegant young man approached them , and being introduced to her as a Mr. Savage , a particular friend of her Ladyship 's , attached himself to them the whole morning . 
-- Rebecca did not observe any thing uncommon in his attentions to Lady Winterton , but she thought , as he handed her Ladyship to her carriage , she saw him put a folded paper into her hand , which she immediately conveyed into her pocket . 
Rebecca stared . 
Do n't you think she would , Rebecca . '' 
`` I think , '' said Rebecca , timidly , `` we may both venture to defer our visit till the morning , as my lord is so kind as to spend the evening at home . '' 
`` Your Ladyship will pardon me , '' said Rebecca , giving her a penetrating look : `` If you are resolved to go , you shall not have to say I am remiss in the duty I owe my friend . 
I am ready to attend you , Madam , '' rising , and ringing for her cloak . 
Lady Winterton , '' said Rebecca , as the chariot drove from the door , `` what is the meaning of all this ? 
`` Now you are angry with me , Rebecca , '' said the Lady , taking her hand ; `` but pray think no more about it : I could contrive no other means to get away from that inquisitive old man , without telling him where I was going . '' 
The chariot stopped -- Lady Winterton alighted -- and Rebecca followed her silently into a parlour , where Savage was eagerly expecting her . 
Rebecca reminded her of the hour : she heard her not , and the clock struck twelve before she could bring herself to leave her lover . 
During their ride home Rebecca spoke not a syllable except one or two laconic answers to her Lady 's questions . 
She followed her into the hall , and , taking a candle from a servant , wished her a good night , and ran hastily up stairs , leaving Lady Winterton to make her excuses to her husband for her breach of promise . 
my dear Rebecca , do not contradict whatever you may hear me say at breakfast , as you value the peace of Rebecca threw the note into the fire , and went down stairs . 
Her Lord and Lady were already in the parlour . 
It was to no purpose for the Lady to weep , or her husband entreat : Rebecca remained inexorable , till Lord Winterton leaving them , his Lady earnestly entreated her to forgive what was past , and she would never see Savage again . 
`` Do not leave me , Rebecca , '' said she ; `` you are my guardian angel ; without you I shall be inevitably lost ! '' 
This argument prevailed , and Rebecca consented to stay , in hopes of drawing her Lady from her unfortunate attachment . 
Rebecca had left her Lady in an alcove at the bottom of the garden , and wandered into the pleasure ground . 
The beauty of the surrounding scene had given a soft serenity to her mind , and she sat down to indulge reflections , which , if not absolutely pleasant , were far from painful . 
She had not sat long before she observed two men gliding among the trees , and proceeding as it were towards the garden . 
At first she felt rather terrisied , but the idea of Savage striking her , she hastened toward the place where she had left her Lady . 
She had hardly got half way before she felt herself suddenly seized by a person , who softly bid her not be alarmed , he only meant to prevent her disturbing an agreeable tete a tete , to which a friend of his had been invited , and which he was determined should not be interrupted by her . 
Rebecca trembled excessively , for , by the voice , and what little she could discern of his features , she discovered the person who held her to be no other than Lord Ossiter . 
`` Whoever your friend is , '' said she , `` he can have no business here . 
Rebecca followed as fast as her trembling limbs would permit ; but what a scene presented itself to her view . 
Terrified and distressed as Rebecca was , she could not but wish to stay to afford what relief was in her power to her Lady , but this was denied her . 
She had assisted Savage to bathe her temples with hartshorn , and saw her open her eyes , when the servants entered , took her in their arms , and bore her to the house , where Rebecca was forbade to enter , and any servant who should dare to afford her shelter , threatened with instant dismission . 
said she , sinking on the ground as the door was shut against her : `` What next will be the fate of the wretched Rebecca . '' 
`` Love , affluence , and pleasure , '' said Lord Ossiter , endeavouring to raise her . 
`` Rest in my arms , '' said he , rudely embracing her . 
She shrieked . 
Rebecca could hear no more -- a sudden chillness ran through her veins -- she respired with difficulty -- her head grew giddy -- and she sunk into insensibility . 
When she recovered , recollection retained but faint traces of the past scenes ; it seemed like a disturbed dream . 
said she . 
She turned her head from him , wept , but could not answer . 
Rebecca heard the door shut : she raised her head to look at the doctor , and perceived , to her great joy , he was a grave , decent looking man . 
She made some excuse to send the nurse out of the room ; then taking both the doctor 's hands in her 's , cried , `` Oh ! 
An interesting conversation now took place -- the doctor was convinced of Rebecca 's innocence , and bribing the nurse to assist , about twelve o'clock they helped the poor sufferer to get on her clothes , supported her down stairs , and carried her in triumph to his own house . 
ThoughLady Winterton had solemnly promised Rebecca to hold no farther correspondence with Savage , her love overpowered every good resolution , and she had seen him several times previous to their leaving London ; for what man of gallantry can refuse the request of a woman he tenderly loves , though rigid honour bids him fly her society . 
The gentle innocent Rebecca was involved in her Lady 's crime ; she was supposed accessary to the interviews , and forbade to enter the house , when she fainted as was mentioned in the preceding chapter . 
He cursed the meddling fellow in his heart , vowed revenge against Rebecca , and set off for London . 
Rebecca gave a sigh to her hard fate , and wished she might conquer her passion , and be prepared to meet that peace in another world she had failed of finding in this . 
Rebecca joyfully waited on Mrs. Penure ; the kind Mrs. Ryland accompanied her , gave her such a character as she deserved , and had the pleasure to find she entirely suited the Lady 's plan . 
The salary was small , but Rebecca had but few wants to supply ; to be neat was now all she required , indeed it was all she could henceforth expect . 
The doctor advanced a few guineas to provide her a change of clothes , for she had sent repeatedly , without effect , for her trunk from Lord Winterton 's , and , in the course of a week , from the time she waited on the Lady , Rebecca became an inmate in the family of the worshipful Justice Penure . 
The morning after Rebecca 's arrival , the breakfast things removed , -LRB- for she was to eat at their table , -RRB- Mrs. Penure desired our heroine to accompany her up stairs . 
She admired the cap our heroine had on , and wished to have one made like it ; but among the medley of trumpery she had displayed , Rebecca could not select any thing fit for the purpose : besides , our heroine 's head , though neat and plain , still retained an air of fashion . 
The Lady assured Rebecca , that her lace , muslin , & c. were very valuable , and insisted on not only one but several caps being produced from those materials ; at the same time she opened a cabinet , in which were arranged , rolled in the neatest manner round cards , every ribband she had ever had in her possession . 
`` See , young woman , '' said she , exultingly , `` here are variety of ribbands , take your choice , let my caps be trimmed handsomely , but do n't waste any ; I hate waste , so , if you can avoid it , do n't cut them . '' 
Rebecca could not suppress a smile at the solemn manner in which this treasury of old-fashioned dirty , faded ribbands was committed to her charge . 
However , she promised to exert her abilities to please , and was beginning to form a cap , but her mistress had not yet done with her . 
`` I suppose , '' said she , `` you will want linings and wire ; besides , you will not be all day making two or three caps : I want a bonnet or two made , and my best cloak fresh trimmed . '' 
Rebecca hesitated ; she would not utter a falsehood . 
A fresh cargo was now displayed to the wondering eyes of Rebecca , of old mode , yellow , white sarsenet , skeleton wires , paste board and blond lace , out of which she was desired to produce a smart bonnet or two . '' 
`` It is impossible , madam , '' said she , `` utterly impossible ; the bonnets worn now are so different from what were worn ten years since . 
Her arguments were vain ; all she could obtain was a yard of mode , and four yards of riband , while Mrs. Penure declared she was leading her into extravagance , and that the bonnet must last her seven years . 
Rebecca was summoned to the parlour to make it ; but , alas ! 
Rebecca could produce only a tea spoonful of black tea , and a very small quantity of sugar . 
`` There is plenty for me , Sir , '' said she , affecting a smile , and -- . 
`` Hold , Sir , I beseech you , '' cried Rebecca ; `` you quite terrify me ! '' 
`` You are mistaken , Sir , '' said our heroine , her eyes falling as she spoke : `` Indeed you are mistaken . 
During tea Rebecca had disclosed to her master the chief incidents of her life , veiling only those which concerned Sir George . 
The justice had drawn forth his purse , and putting ten guinias into the hands of Rebecca , entreated her to accept them as the gift of a father . 
She strenuously opposed the liberal donation . 
He had taken her hand , and closing it with the money within it , held it while he was speaking , when the door opened , and Mrs. Penure stood before them . 
The justice started , and dropped Rebecca 's hand . 
The rage of Mrs. Penure inflamed her features , and shot from her eyes ; she could not speak , but shrieking in a terrific manner flew at Rebecca , and would have made her feel the weight of her tremenduous hand , had not her husband stepped between them . 
Rebecca would not stop to vindicate herself . 
She retired to her room in silence , and soon after received a message from her mistress to leave the house , who , at the same time , made her ill behaviour a plea for not paying her wages , though she had been in the family above four months . 
As she was going out at the gate to seek the London coach , one of the servants put a folded paper in her hand . 
On opening it she saw not the ten guineas , but a ten pound note , with these words : `` I know you have not been paid ; accept this as a small return for your services . 
Thecoach sat Rebecca down in Piccadilly ; it was quite dark . 
She thought it was best to go immediately to Mrs. Harris 's , and determined to take a coach for that purpose . 
said he , and flew towards her . 
-- Rebecca turned suddenly round , and discovered the features of Sir George Worthy . 
`` My angelic Rebecca ! '' 
said he , folding her in his arms , regardless of the place where they stood , `` do I once more behold you ? 
`` Sir George , '' said she , struggling to free herself from his embrace , `` I rejoice to see you well ; but I know not what I have done to deserve this insult . '' 
Rebecca sprang from him , and forgetful of her trunk , ran hastily down St. James 's - street . 
When she had reached the bottom she stopped to recover her breath , and then proceeded slowly down Pall-Mall . 
A poor miserable looking object , whose emaciated frame was but thinly sheltered by a tattered mode cloak for gown she had none , from nocturnal damps , supporing her feeble steps by holding by the iron rails before one of the houses , in a weak , tremulous voice entreated charity . 
Rebecca never turned aside from the supplications of misery . 
She stopped , and put her hand in her pocket . 
cried the poor mendicant , laying her cold hand on the one Rebecca had extended with relief , and gazing ardently at her -- `` Rebecca ! 
Our heroine looked intently on the pale visage of the object before her ; misery and sickness had somewhat altered it , but she saw it was her mother . 
The feelings of a daughter rushed impetuously over her heart . 
She sunk on her knees upon the pavement , and , clasping her parent in her arms , exclaimed , `` Oh , my mother ! 
When the tumult of their feelings were subsided , Rebecca thought of calling a coach , but where were they to drive ? 
She could not think of taking her mother to Mrs. Harris 's ; they therefore drove to a street in Westminster , where Mrs. Serl had formerly lodged , and were fortunate enough to meet with an apartment empty . 
Here their mutual embraces and endearments were again renewed : Rebecca wept for joy at having found a parent whose future life she would endeavour to make happy , and Mrs. Serl shed tears of contrition for having once treated so unworthily so good a daughter . 
She informed Rebecca that after they left Lincolnshire Serl commenced gamester , sharper and swindler ; that his daughter went on the town , and turned an abandoned profligate ; and that , at last overwhelmed with poverty and disgrace , Serl himself had died in the FlectPrison , leaving her in the greatest distress , having neither clothes , money , or friends . 
When Rebecca viewed her mother 's tattered garments , and thought of getting her more comfortable clothing , her own trunk recurred to her memory . 
`` I hope it is not lost , '' said she ; `` and it is lucky what little money I possess is in my pocket . '' 
Her mother informed her that there was some decent apparel at a pawn broker 's in the neighbourhood , and Rebecca , having received instructions in what manner to proceed , went out in order to get it ; but what was her astonishment , on opening the parcel when she had brought it home , to see a gown made of a piece of India chints , which she remembered to have had in her trunk when it was sent into Lincolnshire , with a muslin apron , and several other things , which she equally knew to be her own . 
said she , dropping the parcel from her hands , and fixing her eyes on her mother . 
`` It was mine , '' said Rebecca , in a firm voice . 
`` The old gentleman took it away with him , '' said one of the waiters , `` and paid all expences ; '' for Rebecca , in her fright the preceding night , had not paid her fare to town . 
said she , surprised . 
`` That is Lord Ossiter 's , '' said Rebecca , scarcely able to respire . 
`` No , '' said Rebecca , struggling to suppress her emotions , `` No , I can not go just now ; in the afternoon it will be more convenient . 
Rebecca tripped out of the house , called a coach , and drove home . 
During her little ride her mind dwelt on the singularity of the circumstance . 
She had just heard the man , who rescued her from Sir George 's insults , had gone away with him , had taken her trunk , and directed her to find it at Lord Ossiter 's . 
It was an inexplicable riddle ; he had called himself her uncle , but she knew she had but one uncle and he was abroad in the navy . 
She was certainly fortunate in escaping a snare , which she had no doubt was laid to trepan her . 
Lord Ossiter had , perhaps , represented her to Sir George as an abandoned creature , devoid of virtue or principal ; and that gentleman , once so esteemed , so respected , was now considered as one , who , believing her lost to honour , would join his Lordship in any stratagem to decoy her into his power . 
Full of these ideas , she told her mother she would immeadiately remove from the apartments she then occupied , lest she should have been watched home , and Sir George might be directed where to find her . 
my dear mother , '' said she , `` I am sensible of my own weakness . 
Her mother approved and strengthened these resolutions , and , having but very few things to put together , in less than two hours they were in a new lodging near Millbank , Wettminster . 
Here Rebecca sunk under the fatigue of body , and agitation of mind she had undergone , and a fever ensued , which brought her almost to the brink of the grave . 
The strength of a good constitution soon combated the violence of the disorder , and she began to recover her strength , when her mother was attacked with one more alarming ; this was the smallpox , which , to a person of her years , was expected to be fatal . 
Ten pounds was all the worldly wealth Rebecca possessed when she met her mother ; but ten pounds in a house of sickness would last but a very short time ; she , therefore on examining the contents of her purse , when her mother sickened , found it contained but fifteen shillings , and there was a doctor 's bill to pay . 
During the first ten days of her mother 's illness Rebecca hardly left her bedside , denying herself almost the necessaries of life , in order to lengthen out her little store ; but on the fourteenth day she was pronounced out of danger , and that good nursing , and nourishing food , was all that was necessary to her restoration . 
said Rebecca , `` I have no possible means of procuring those necessary comforts . '' 
She was stooping , as she spoke , to take some gruel from the fire , the pin of her handkercheif dropped out , and the picture of Lady Mary swung forward against her hand . 
Rebecca gazed at it mournfully . 
-- `` True , '' said she , `` it is set in gold , and might afford a temporary supply ; but , then , is it not the portrait of my adored benefactress ? 
Foolish , foolish , Rebecca ! 
She was returning the picture to her bosom , when it struck her she might , perhaps , get the minature carefully taken out , and dispose of the gold in which they were set . 
`` If so , '' said she , `` I may comfort my mother , and yet preserve the respect due to the portrait of Lady Mary . '' 
Rebeccawas so pleased with the project of raising a supply of money from the gold , that she told her mother she would go out for half an hour and breathe the fresh air , as she found the confinement she had suffered rather impeded her returning strength . 
When she was out she thought , by extending her walk , she should feel herself refreshed , she therefore crossed the Park , and going out at Spring Gardens Gate , stopped at an eminent goldsmith 's in Cockspur-street , and requested him to take the pictures carefully out , and purchase the setting . 
The Lady had not before observed Rebecca ; but now her pale , but beautiful interesting countenance struck her . 
`` It is a pity to have them unset , '' said she . 
A pale vermillion crossed her cheek , and she hesitated . 
said Rebecca . 
As she was speaking she had taken several guineas from her purse , and wrapped them in paper . 
`` You shall call upon me , if you please , to-morrow morning , '' continued she , presenting our heroine with a card , under which she slipped into her hand the paper of money , and without waiting for an answer , she tripped out of the shop . 
Rebecca was motionless ; nor did she think of looking at the card till the master of the shop returned from seeing the Lady to her carriage . 
`` Lady Chatterton , '' said Rebecca , reading the card . 
Just then a carriage drew up , several Ladies of fashion demanded the jeweller 's attention , and Rebecca , thinking her mother might want her attendance , left the shop , not without wishing she could have heard what Sir George the Lady was designed for , as that was a name she never heard mentioned , but she felt interested , and found it impossible to suppress the emotions of her heart . 
Rebecca was truly grateful for the unexpected bounty she had received , and returned home fully resolved to wait on the benevolent Lady , and return her those thanks her astonishment had prevented her expressing at the time : But on the morrow her mother was so very ill it was impossible to leave her , and for several succeeding days it rained continually : However , at length a fine morning presented , Mrs. Serl was greatly recovered , and Rebecca , dressing herself as neatly as the very limited state of her wardrobe would allow , proceeded to St. Alban 's - street . 
On knocking at the door she was informed , that Lady Chatterton was gone out for a morning ride ; but that , if she was the young woman her Ladyship had met at the jeweller 's , she was desired to wait till the Lady returned . 
Rebecca was pleased with this little mark of attention , and was shewn into a small parlour , where a child , of about eleven years old was practising on the pianoforte . 
The child stopped on her entrance , and , starting from her seat , advanced a few steps towards Rebecca . 
And pray ma'am , do not think me rude if I ask you if your name is not Rebecca Littleton ? '' 
`` That is my name , '' said the astonished Rebecca . 
`` I knew , I was sure , it could be no other , '' said the child , throwing her arms round our heroine 's neck ; `` but you have forgot me -- you do not remember your little Lucy Ossiter . '' 
`` Yes , your own little girl that loveed you so dearly , and almost broke her poor heart when you went away : But you shall not go away again , Rebecca ; my dear aunt will not let you go : I know the will not . '' 
dear Rebecca , I have got such a deal to tell you about uncle George . 
thought Rebecca , `` then I am in the very house I most wished to avoid . 
`` As my Lady is not at home , my dear Miss Ossiter , '' said she , `` I will call again another time . '' 
`` Well , then , let it be soon , my own Rebecca ; say you will come again to-morrow . '' 
Rebecca tenderly embraced the affectionate child , and having given her a kind of half promise to see her soon again , hastily left the house . 
`` Every thing , '' said she , `` conspires against me . 
As she walked along , indulging these reflections , it struck her that she would go to her uncle 's agent , and enquire when he had heard from him , and whether the old gentleman was soon expected in England . 
But when she got to the place where he used to reside , she found he was removed to a distant part of the town ; nor could the people , who then occupied the house , give her a proper direction to find him . 
`` Now every stay is gone , '' said Rebecca , as she pursued her way homeward ; `` but , I thank God , I feel my health returning , and , I shall be enabled to gain , by industry at least , the necessaries of life for my mother and self . '' 
poor Rebecca , she little knew how small a portion of the world 's wealth fell to the share of the humble , the industrious female , who by continued labour can scarcely gain sufficient to supply , with the coarsest food , the wants of nature , or to shield with decent clothing her limbs from the inclemency of the weather . 
Rebecca was poor , but her heart was void of discontent . 
She enquired for employment , and was so happy as to procure some ; but the fruits of her almost incessant industry were very inadequate to the wants of herself and mother , who revived but very slowly from the bed of sickness . 
WhenSir George Worthy left England , in order , if possible , to banish from his remembrance Rebecca Littleton , he had , previous to his departure , visited his cousin Eleanor , and informed her of the state of his heart . 
He had used every endeavour to discover Rebecca : he had , by various stratagems , traced her to her embarkation with Miss Abthorpe for America , and was informed the vessel in which they went was reported to have been lost , and all on board perished . 
`` Rebecca lost ! '' 
`` She is an amiable woman , '' said he , `` and though I can not love again with the emhusiastic ardour I experienced for Rebecca , I will , if she voluntarily accepts my hand , exert myself to make her happy . 
She , like myself , has experienced disappointment in her tenderest hopes ; we can at least console each other , and make up in friendship what we want in love . '' 
Mr. Littleton had given up all hopes of ever again hearing of Rebecca . 
-- He imagined her dead , but her image was so deeply engraven on his heart , that he resolved never to enter into the married state . 
Sometimes he would think she might , perhaps , have been his sister , for he had never heard her father 's Christian name , but his heart recoiled from this suggestion She was undoubtedly a relation , yet he had never heard Rebecca mention an uncle , but she might have many ; he had never made many enquiries concerning her family . 
During this altercation the coachman came in with Rebecca 's trunk , and asked where the young woman was to pay him his fare ? 
`` By all that 's good , '' said he , `` it is my own girl , my Rebecca ? 
-- Which way did she go ? 
Let me follow her . 
`` Yes , '' said he , `` I am all the relation she has in the world , and a devilish poor one too , for I have not above half a guinea at this present time in my pocket . 
What wonder if , in the delightful hurry of spirits this discovery occasioned , they did not think of the necessity of writing a note for Rebecca , in case she came to enquire for her trunk ; but , satisfied with leaving a verbal message , they repaired to Bedford-square , to enjoy the pleasures of an uninterrupted conversation . 
Thenext morning Rebecca , so dear to both their hearts , recurred to their imaginations ; George beheld her in want , plunged in infamy , the horrors of which her susceptible heart severely felt , and from which she could by no means extricate herself . 
They went out together , and entered the house just ten minutes after Rebecca had left it . 
Disappointed and grieved , unable by any means to trace which way she had gone , and fearing she would be distressed by the loss of her trunk , which might contain all her wordly possessions , they returned heavily home , and resolved to advertise it . 
This they immediately did in several papers , in such a manner as it was impossible for Rebecca not to know it was herself that was meant , though only the initials of the name were used ; but Rebecca never saw the papers , and the repeated advertisements were fruitless . 
George had introduced his father to Lord and Lady Chatterton ; but , thought Rebecca had been once or twice mentioned before that Lady , he had always avoided entering into explanations , and Lady Chatterton did not know that she was the woman George had so long loved ; for though , in the earlier part of their intimacy , he had frequently declared that his heart was engaged , he had never said to whom , or whether she was above or beneath him in rank ; but simply said , he had no hope of being united to her . 
On the day Lady Chatterton had met Rebecca at the jeweller 's , she mentioned the circumstance at dinner time . 
`` I wanted to buy it of her , '' said she , `` for one of the pictures was so like George Littleton , and the other was a Lady , but I do not recollect who , though I think , I have seen the features before . '' 
said George , `` I am certain it could only be Rebecca herself . '' 
`` I wish it may , '' said the Lady ; -- `` but I did not think of it at the time I saw her : however , I have appointed her to come here to-morrow . '' 
my poor lost Rebecca , '' said George , and , rising hastily from table , left the room , to give vent to those emotions he could no longer suppress . 
Rebecca , in distress , offering , with evident reluctance the gold that enveloped his portrait to sale , convinced him he still retained a tender place in her remembrance ; once to have been beloved by Rebecca would have been his highest wish -- now she was contaminated -- lost to virtue ! 
And , though still inexpressibly dear to his heart , she could never be his wife ; yet she might be innocent . 
He would have given worlds for an interview with her , and unable to wait the issue of the morning , when she was expected in St. Alban 's - street , he obtained from Lady Chatterton a direction to the jeweller , and hastened to Cockspur-street , in hopes to be able through him to trace out her place of abode ; but the jeweller had never seen her before , and had hardly thought of her since . 
The next morning they repaired early to St. Alban 's - street , but the day passed and no Rebecca appeared . 
`` She will never come , '' -- said George . 
Mr. Littleton began to be of the same opinion ; but the benevolent Lady Chatterton never went out without leaving orders with her porter , that , should Rebecca call , she might be desired to wait till her return . 
`` I will myself , '' said she , `` have the pleasure of presenting her to her uncle . 
She shall not be hastily informed that he is in England , left it should overpower her spirits , and if I find her worthy , I will give her to her amiable cousin , and make her a fortune worth his acceptance . '' 
But unfortunately Miss Ossiter 's joy , the effusions of which was mingled with incoherent intelligence concerning her uncle 's , marriage , prevented poor Rebecca from reaping any benefit from her Ladyship 's kind intentions in her behalf . 
`` Why , it was my own Rebecca Littleton ; I knew her in a minute , though she is so pale and thin . '' 
`` And where is she ? '' 
`` She could not wait any longer , '' replied the child ; `` but said she would call again to-morrow '' `` Was ever any thing so unfortunate ! '' 
Just then his father entered , and they lamented together , that now they were more than ever convinced of the worth of Rebecca she had effectually secluded herself from them . 
She looked again on the young woman , who was now just recovering , and instantly in her reanimated countenance , recognized the features of Rebecca . 
The debt , for which her mother had been thrown into prison , was fifteen pounds , which was contracted with the apothecary during her 's and Rebecca 's illness . 
Lady Chatterton soon contrived to have it discharged , and poor Mrs. Serl being tenderly informed of her liberation , was carefully placed in the carriage , her daughter on one side , and her deliverer on the other , who supported her as the coach moved slowly toward St. Alban 's - Street ; nor ever did conqueror , in his triumphal car , feel more exulting sensations than did her Ladyship when she led the grateful , trembling Rebecca into her own house , saw her mother laid in a comfortable bed , and heard from a physician , that tender attention and peace of mind , would be more efficacious towards her restoration than medicine . 
He also ordered Rebecca to be immediately put to bed , and take some wine and water , with a few drops of laudanum in it , as the agitation of her spirits , and suddenchange of fortune , had occasioned a wildness in her looks , and an incoherence in her discourse , that rather alarmed him . 
Lady Chatterton saw the prescription administered , and then descended to meet her guests in the dining parlour , while the exhausted Rebecca sunk into a more peaceful slumber than she had enjoyed for many months . 
It was a tender , difficult task to inform these affectionate relations that Rebecca was found , yet it was a task her Ladyship 's generous heart burned to execute . 
Gently and by degrees she made the interesting discovery ; but when George knew that his Rebecca was really in the house , it was impossible to prevent his flying to the apartment that contained her ; Mr. Littleton followed . 
She was in a profound sleep . 
He stood gazing with a look of joy , mingled with tender pity , on her altered countenance . 
His head fell on the pillow beside her , and tears rushed down his venerable countenance . 
Rebecca moved , the nurse forced George from her bed-side . 
She opened her eyes ; the power of recollection seemed for a while suspended . 
She looked wildly round her . 
said she : `` I will not be taken from her . 
She raised herself in bed , and saw her uncle . 
`` Rebecca ! '' 
said he , in an accent of tenderness , `` have you forgot me , my dear Rebecca . '' 
no , my beloved uncle , '' said she , her head dropping on his shoulder . 
Rebecca put her hand to her forehead : `` I am striving to think , '' said she ; `` but I can not remember where I am , how I came here . '' 
-- By degrees the power of recollection returned , and every circumstance recurred to her memory : -- `` I am in the house of Lord Chatterton , '' said she . 
Rebecca listened in silence , and her uncle , in the most cautious manner , informed her of his having found a son , and that son was the man she had imagined married to Lady Eleanor Harcourt . 
Rebecca could scarcely credit it , yet , if it was really true , if she was still beloved by the man whose image was engraven on her heart , and , indeed , released from the vow she had so solemnly given her deceased benefactress , the rapidity with which these reflections rushed through her brain , the violent emotions of her heart , almost overpowered her weak frame . 
She breathed with difficulty , her eyes grew dim , the attendant perceived the change , and , giving her a few drops in some water , recalled her fleeting spirits . 
said she , with a faint smile , when she was a little recovered : `` methinks I should like to see him . '' 
my Rebecca , behold me here ! '' 
A smile of ineffable pleasure beamed over the countenance of Rebecca while she extended her hand toward her lover . 
Peace being now restored to the bosom of Rebecca , her health , her vivacity and bloom , rapidly returned , her mother too , recovered a sufficient degree of health , to enable her to participate in her daughter 's happiness . 
An early day was named for the union of George and Rebecca , previous to which Lord Chatterton procured the old lieutenant to be superannuated , and a handsome pension was given him in return for his long and faithful services ; a lucrative post was also procured for George , but he requested leave to transfer it to young Savage . 
Possessed of my Rebecca , whose humble spirit will enjoy most felicity in the quiet , undisturbed walks of life , beholding my father possessed of sufficient to make his setting sun serene and unclouded , what can I desire more ? 
Lady Chatterton had , with her Lord 's approbation , ordered a settlement to be made on Rebecca of two thousand pounds , which sum his Lordship supplied and placed in the funds for her own particular use . 
The day after the union took place , Rebecca , George , Mr. Littleton , and Mrs. Serl , took an affectionate leave of their generous friends in St. Alban ` sstreet , and departed for Berkshire . 
-- The beauty of the situation , the neat cottage-like appearance of the house , and beautiful simplicity of the furniture , afforded Rebecca the most pleasurable sensations . 
She was soon visited by the neighbouring gentry , among whom , what was her surprise to see , Lady Winterton , whose sable habilments told she was emancipated from that worst of slavery , wedlock , with the man she could not love . 
Change of air was prescribed , and her Lord had brought her down to a small estate of his in Berkshire ; that she had found benefit from the change , but from the time of their leaving town , her Lord 's health had declined ; he had been subject to an asthmatic complaint , which increased upon him , and had terminated his life about two months before Rebecca 's arrival in the country . 
Rebecca applauded her conduct , and desired her husband to mention , when next he wrote to Savage , that Lady Winterton was their neighbour , and that she was a widow . 
Though Rebecca , from the variegated scenes through which she had passed , had purchased a thorough knowledge of the world , yet had it not hardened her heart , or rendered her callous to the calls of misery , her prudence in her family concerns enabled her ever to have a morsel for the hungry , and a garment to throw over the destitute orphan . 
When the poor saw her they blessed her -- infant lips set forth her praises -- and aged knees bent for her before the Throne of Grace . 
She cheered the declining years of her mother and uncle . 
They called down blessings on her head . 
Her husband adored her . 
Her servants loved and reverenced her . 
Her bosom was the seat of unfeigned piety . 
The smile of content dimpled on her cheek , and her dwelling was the mansion of peace . 
