Among the many who offered them an asylum , Lady Aubrey was the most zealous : she was a widow , rich , haughty , and ostentatious : the sisters were highly accomplished ; their patroness wanted society in the lonely manor-house of Glenowen , and , a short time after my grandfather 's death , the disconsolate orphans repaired to their new habitation . 
Frances was constantly employed in reading , working furniture for the ancient apartments at Glenowen , and visiting such of the neighbours as Lady Aubrey 's pride condescended to acknowledge ; while Penelope was engaged in a series of humbler occupations : it was her task to superintend the household , to distribute the scanty pittance , which blazoned the name of her protectress more than it cheered the hearts of the afflicted ; to preside over the dairy , and to regulate the book of family accounts . 
It was the fate of Frances Waller to awaken the only tender sentiment that ever honoured the bosom of Sir Edward ; and , a short time after she became the inmate of Glenowen , they were married : while the more homely but amiable Penelope was consigned to the sober affections of Arthur Ainsforth , Lady Aubrey 's domestic chaplain . 
This union of my parents was the cause of many pangs and heart-burnings in the domestic circle of Glenowen ; for , Mr. Ainsforth , by the meekness and piety of his doctrines , had made an indelible impression on the heart of Mrs. Judith Blagden , Lady Aubrey 's waiting woman , a person who will act a principal part in my eventful history . 
Two years after Sir Edward 's marriage , the dowager Lady Aubrey expired in a fit of apoplexy , and , as her son 's emancipation from the mountains which nearly encircled the manor-house had been retarded by her parsimonious counsels , her remains were scarcely deposited in the family vault , when a journey to the metropolis was meditated , and resolved on . 
Frances was delighted with the prospect of emerging from obscurity , and her heart palpitated with the anticipation of triumphs , to which she had hitherto been a stranger . 
From the moment that the expedition was first mentioned , all her ideas seemed to expand . 
The manor-house appeared more gloomy than ever ; the mountains assumed , to the eye of fancy , a more stupendous and barren appearance ; while she considered herself as a star , too long obscured in the mist of oblivion , and at last destined to illumine the world of splendour and animation . 
My mother bade adieu to Lady Aubrey , with a painful reluctance , which superstition would have converted into a presentiment of future events : -- she knew that the affections of the heart had no share in the motives which united her to Sir Edward ; and she trembled while reason presented the infinity of dangers which she was destined to encounter . 
Young , handsome , lively , and inconsiderate ; reared in the calm seclusion of humble solitude , accustomed to flattery , fond of pleasure , and habituated to sway , in the narrow limits of rustic society , her peril was imminent : Penelope saw it ; and her gentle bosom ached with apprehension . 
The separation which occasioned so much pain to my mother was scarcely felt by Lady Aubrey ; she had other events of more importance to occupy her mind ; her very dreams were replete with anticipated delights ; splendour , dissipation , and conquest embellished every scene which was presented by her exhilarated fancy , while the purest affections of the heart were subdued by the ardour of ambition . 
Lady Aubrey was presented at court ; her beauty rendered her conspicuous , her splendours were the subject of universal conversation . 
She darted forth , in the sphere of gaiety , like an effulgent orb , eclipsing every lesser object , and enlivening the scenes around her by an unexampled brilliancy . 
She exhibited her love of profusion , by the richness of her liveries , the number of her carriages , the value of her jewels , and the luxuries of her table . 
Lady Aubrey 's mansion was the abode of the graces ; Lady Aubrey 's assemblies were the rendezvous of taste and fashion ; Lady Aubrey 's beauty was blazoned in every diurnal publication ; her portrait embellished the gallery of every painter ; the forms , and even the colours of female decorations were named after her ; while her matrimonial appendage was as little known , and as little talked of , as though he had inhabited the wilds of Arabia . 
Days flew like moments ; every man was the adorer of Lady Aubrey ; every woman was the friend : her house was the temple of intrigue ; and her companions the votaries of dissipation . 
Sir Edward had few opportunities of conversing with Lady Aubrey , and the short intervals which the multiplicity of her occupations allowed him were generally productive of spleen and altercation . 
Examples were set before him , wherein the lord of the creation was nothing more than a passive , convenient , domestic animal , whose only merit was complacency , and whose unremitting task was the study of obedience : even the splendid habitation which Sir Edward 's munificence provided was not allowed the sanction of his name ; while Lady Aubrey 's sovereignty was universally acknowledged . 
Sir Edward 's ill-humour and uncouth manners afforded an inexhaustible source for ridicule to the sarcastic associates of Lady Aubrey , whose mind was but too readily prepared to receive an unfavourable impression . 
The malevolent industry of her female friends , was indefatigable in promoting domestic uneasiness ; they envied the luxury which they participated , and still more , the reputation which , amidst all the temptations of fashionable life , and all the pernicious examples before her , Lady Aubrey had still preserved unblemished : this preeminence was not to be supported : the insolence of virtue was too formidable to be tolerated by those , who had abjured its dominion ; and a mighty phalanx conspired at once to annihilate her fame , fortune , and domestic happiness . 
With a mind poisoned by the evil insinuations of artful counsellors , Lady Aubrey lamented her hasty marriage ; and did not hesitate to believe , that had she been permitted to emerge from obscurity , she might have formed an alliance among the highest orders of society . 
She beheld many instances of the caprice of fortune ; many brows , decorated with the ermine of nobility , which were wrinkled with age , and marked with insignificance : she saw women , who had outlived the memory of their juvenile follies , assuming all the dignity of virtue ; and , equally forgetful of their origin and their indiscretions , arrogating to themselves the most insolent superiority . 
The disgust , which was the offspring of disappointment , wholly obliterated those impressions of gratitude , which reflection should have rendered indelible , and Lady Aubrey , at the very moment when she was envied by all the world , would , with delight , have flown from it for ever . 
Thus weary of every object which presented itself , in the gaudy routine of prodigality , she looked in vain for consolation ; flattery poured its poison into her mind , while the phantom of domestic happiness became every hour more faint , till it faded into nothing . 
At all public places of entertainment Lady Aubrey was still the planet , round which the lesser constellations moved incessantly , borrowing a reflected light from her superior splendour ; all of real bliss gradually vanished ; while the deceptive blandishments of false consequence , augmented , in proportion as her judgment became inert , till the gay and giddy Frances shrunk into one of those trifling mortals , who cherish existence , long after they become incapable of appreciating its value . 
Sir Edward 's health rapidly declined as Lady Aubrey 's intercourse with folly augmented . 
Her inattention kept pace with his irascibility , till at last , unable to bear either her insolence or neglect , she was peremptorily commanded to quit the metropolis . 
Frances had long been weary of every surrounding object , -LRB- for even the most delightful scenes produce satiety , -RRB- and would have become a voluntary recluse , had it not been the will of her husband that she should be dissipated no longer . 
She had been taught to resist every species of oppression , and the idea of yielding to the authority of her wedded tyrant was replete with horrors . 
She consulted her female friends ; they ridiculed the injunction , as barbarous and absurd : but Sir Edward was inexorable , and notwithstanding all the energy of prayers , tears , and intreaties , the lovely Lady Aubrey was again condemned to waste her days in a solitude which was abhorrent to her nature . 
Sir Edward had a younger brother , who at a very early age entered the army ; his choice of a profession had been contrary to the wishes of his mother , and , for an act of disobedience which she deemed impardonable , he had not only been entirely estranged from the family , but excluded from any participation of the father 's property ; the whole of which had been left at the disposal of the deceased Lady Aubrey . 
The estate of Glenowen , notwithstanding the cruelty of his unkind mother , was his by right , in case Sir Edward died without issue male , together with the title , deducting only twelve hundred pounds per annum , as Lady Aubrey 's marriage settlement . 
On the day preceding that which was fixed for their departure , Frances sickened of the small-pox ; the disorder was of the most dangerous kind , and the graces of her countenance yielded to its malignity , while her reason and her life were , for a time , menaced by its violence . 
Lady Aubrey recovered , but existence was no longer desirable , since the powers of fascination had vanished for ever . 
Her beautiful features were changed and distorted , and the mirror which reflected her deformity looked like the fiat of total annihilation . 
The old manor-house of Glenowen was the only spot on the habitable globe where Lady Aubrey hoped to find consolation ; and without a murmur of regret she departed from that scene where she had been , successively , the victor and the vanquished . 
Lady Aubrey had long erased from her memory the precepts of her father ; and looking only for the enjoymentss of the present moment , wholly forgot that they were `` though sweet , not lasting . '' 
The source of rapture , the idol of adulation being destroyed , every hour presented a mournful vacuum , which seemed eternal ; and the solitude to which she was hastening was in no respect calculated to solace her affliction . 
Sir Edward was more than ever the object of her aversion ; every smile which the hope of regaining his long-lost repose excited , seemed to insult her sorrow , and to evince his triumph . 
It was in vain that my father counselled her to bear with patience the cold unnatural conduct of Lady Aubrey ; Penelope 's heart was stung to its innermost recesses -- it was wounded not only deeply , but incurably . 
After a tedious journey , Lady Aubrey once more beheld the misty mountains of Glenowen lifting their bare summits above the venerable trees that embowered the manor-house , and forming a diversity , at once soothing and picturesque . 
The next object which arrested her attention was the parsonage , the residence of my father , situated in the front of a beautiful thicket , and presenting its white-washed walls decorated with vine and jessamine , and skirted with a little garden , Not idly gay , but elegantly neat . 
Reflection now rushed through the heart of Lady Aubrey ; she recollected her unkindness towards the most amiable of women , and dreaded the moment which was to prove her own inferiority . 
On entering Sir Edward 's estate , she quitted her carriage , and proceeded on foot across the upland meadow , towards the parsonage . 
As she strolled pensively along , ruminating on the dreadful change her external form would present to every beholder , her eyes were fascinated by a neat and simple grave-stone , on which , while her blood almost congealed with horror , she read the following lines : O thou ! 
No wealth had she , no power to sway , Yet rich in worth and learning 's lore , She wept her summer hours away ; She hears the wintry storm no more ! 
Yet , o'er this low and silent spot Full many a bud of spring shall wave , While she , by all , save one , forgot , Shall snatch a wreath beyond the grave . 
Lady Aubrey had not resolution to read the inscription a second time ; she saw the name of Penelope , and with tottering steps hastened towards the parsonage . 
Lady Aubrey entered the garden ; the flowers which Penelope had planted were covered with dew ; the bower which her hand had twined was dark , but not deserted -- for a nightingale had fixed its abode among the branches , and was singing its evening song , in notes soothing though melancholy . 
At this moment my father entered the parlour ; I awoke ; the sight of a stranger astonished me ; Lady Aubrey snatched me to her bosom , and cheered me with caresses ; my sensations were undescribable -- I sighed and trembled , I knew not wherefore . 
From my father 's respectful demeanour , and the appearance of Lady Aubrey , whose habit was richly trimmed with gold , according to the fashion of the time , I believed the visitor to be something almost supernatural . 
When she spoke of my mother , her words were accompanied by a profusion of tears ; I wondered at her emotion : I knew that my dear parent was suddenly estranged from me ; but of death , -- irrevoc able death , -- I had not the smallest comprehension . 
The last sigh of my departed mother closed a servent prayer that Lady Aubrey would adopt and protect me . 
She knew that the curacy of Glenowen was small , and barely sufficient to support my father ; she loved me with a degree of fondness bordering on enthusiasm ; her fleeting breath blessed her ill-fated offspring ; and as her feeble arm pressed me to her bosom , the tenderness of maternal love beamed in her languid eyes , till they were closed for ever . 
I was frequently Lady Aubrey 's companion , when she wandered about the woods , and to the church-yard , which was the scene of her unavailing sorrow . 
Every day seemed to augment my power over the affections of Sir Edward and Lady Aubrey ; I became the little sovereign of Glenowen ; every wish was anticipated , every word was law : I traversed the domains of my patron , uncontrolled , exulting , happy ! 
As Lady Aubrey 's diminution of personal graces precluded every idea of visiting the metropolis , her chief delight was that of improving the grounds and embellishing the family mansion , where she was destined to do penance for her past folly . 
Lady Aubrey 's apartments were more costly than convenient ; more magnificent , than tasteful ; but to excel , to reign , to astonish , had ever been her delight ; and she resolved to command that admiration from the rude children of nature , which was no longer to be expected from the pupils of dissimulation . 
I had scarcely attained my third year , when Lady Aubrey gave hopes of presenting Sir Edward an heir to his estate and title . 
From this period her fondness for me evidently diminished ; my artless and lively manners began to fatigue her ; I was too boisterous to remain long in her presence , and too wild to be trusted where her eyes did not perpetually follow me : not so much on my account was she watchful , as on her own : the idea of any accident was terrible in Lady Aubrey 's precarious situation , and I was deprived of every pleasure , in order to ensure her safety . 
Sir Edward was still fond of my company ; and we often walked and conversed together , when driven from Lady Aubrey 's society either by caprice or ill-humour . 
Sometimes , when I was permitted to remain with Lady Aubrey , I observed her conversation with the neighbours who came to visit her ; it frequently turned on the delight which would fill every heart in case Providence should bless her with a son . 
One day , passing with Lady Aubrey through the apartment , where the much-talked-of miracle was destined first to behold the light , I could not refrain from tears , as I kissed the hand which led me . 
said I. `` He will be your friend , and you must learn to please him , '' continued Lady Aubrey . 
`` Because Sir Edward is rich ; '' answered Lady Aubrey with increased coldness . 
`` All are not born to prosperous fortune , '' replied Lady Aubrey sternly : `` some are wealthy , and others poor . '' 
Lady Aubrey could not answer it . 
From the happiest , the gaiest of human beings , I became the most dejected and forlorn : the gradual neglect which I experienced from Lady Aubrey , served as an example for the whole family . 
Lady Aubrey 's neglect at last sunk into total indifference . 
I was not permitted to see her , during several successive days ; and when an audience was granted , I was never allowed to speak , lest I should derange the nervous system , and discompose her spirits . 
Mrs. Dickens , whose taunts provoked my violence , did not fail to repeat every expression , with additional terms of acrimonious malice ; and , to complete my disgrace , Mrs. Blagden was deputed by the household , to represent my rebellious conduct to Lady Aubrey . 
Their machinations prevailed , and from that hour I was banished from her bosom , as a monster of arrogance , ingratitude , and deceit : I was deemed criminal before I knew the meaning of the word ; and every breast was armed against a being , whose innocence prevented the possibility of offending . 
During Lady Aubrey 's situation of hope and solicitude , an event took place as terrible as it was unexpected . 
Lady Aubrey 's affliction was of that species which does not kill ; the idea of a funeral was too distressing for her feelings , though they could resist the pang of losing an indulgent husband ; and , the day previous to Sir Edward 's interment , Lady Aubrey and Mrs. Blagden departed for Bristol . 
Lady Aubrey was a pliant subject for the machinations of such a being ; -- vain , though no longer beautiful , and proud , without a claim to superiority , her weak mind languished for adulation , and her imperious bosom panted for dominion : Mrs. Blagden was the flatterer who poured forth the one , and the agent who promoted the other . 
She was at once Lady Aubrey 's counsellor , confidant , and friend ; the abettor of her follies , and the director of all her actions . 
I wandered about , forlorn and dejected ; inquired after Lady Aubrey ; talked of Sir Edward ; grew every hour more sorrowful ; refused my usual portion of nourishment ; and at last , pined myself into sickness . 
Three weeks after Lady Aubrey 's departure , a letter arrived from Mrs. Blagden with the joyful intelligence that a son was born , to inherit the rich domains of Glenowen . 
Lady Aubrey 's health demanding change of climate , it was determined that she should immediately depart for Nice . 
She had never visited . 
Wales since the birth of the infant Sir Sidney , and the news of her intention did not reach . 
Glenowen , till she had landed on the continent . 
Three years passed , and Lady Aubrey still resided at Nice . 
Another winter elapsed when a letter arrived from Lady Aubrey , intimating that she meant to remain some time longer in the south of France ; and desiring Mr. Martlet to find a careful person , in whom he could confide , and who might , without delay , conduct me to her . 
I forgave all her former unkind treatment , and only looked forward to the hope of reinstating myself in her good opinion ; but my rapture was checked , my bosom chilled , my pride humbled , when Mr. Martlet read aloud the concluding lines of Lady Aubrey 's letter -- `` Sir Sidney will want a companion to attend him ; and I dare hope that Walsingham will prove worthy of his protection by a respectful demeanour , and a proper sense of his own situation . '' 
These were her words , they sunk deep into my heart -- I never shall forget them . 
Lady Aubrey had , in her letter to Mr. Martlet , desired that , exclusive of the money allowed for our travelling expences , one guinea should be presented to me for the gratification of my childish propensities . 
In our route towards Dover , we stopped two days in the metropolis ; Mr. Hanbury had some commissions to execute for Lady Aubrey , and a draft to receive at her banker 's for the expences of our journey . 
The kindness of Lady Aubrey , in drawing me from the deep solitude in which I had been obscured from my birth , filled my bosom with unbounded gratitude : all her former neglect was forgiven , in the hope that my vexations were at an end , and the dawn of happiness at length opening on my prospects . 
It is impossible to give you any idea of my agitation , when Mr. Hanbury informed me , that in a few hours I should embrace Lady Aubrey , and my little cousin Sir Sidney . 
I anticipated the affectionate embraces of Lady Aubrey , and the welcome smiles of my little cousin . 
The carriage stopped at the gate of Lady Aubrey 's hotel , and we were ushered into a splendid saloon , which was prepared for an assembly . 
The servant informed us , that Lady Aubrey was engaged at her toilette , and that Sir Sidney had already retired to rest : for day had closed some time when we reached the end of our journey . 
Lady Aubrey has but one favourite in the world , besides Sir Sidney ; and to say the truth , her attachment has lately become perfectly ridiculous . '' 
Lasond proceeded : -- `` And yet I shall be sorry to leave Lady Aubrey , for I am the best friend she has in the family . '' 
`` But if she will disgrace herself by such an attachment , in defiance of reason and good counsel , she must expect nothing but contempt from those , who know how things ought to be . 
living under the roof with Lady Aubrey , '' cried my tutor , `` what can it mean ? 
This event will account for her long absence from her native country ; -- for her neglect of thee , my poor ill-treated boy . '' 
We had remained more than an hour in the saloon , when Mrs. Blagden , whom we found in the character of Sir Sidney 's governess , entered , and immediately conducted us to Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room . 
She received us politely ; but there was a reserve in her manner which was chillingly repulsive . 
After thanking Mr. Hanbury for the trouble which he had taken , she added , glancing at me for the first time , `` Poor Walsingham ! 
I hope , notwithstanding , that he will prove worthy of my favour ; though , '' added she , after a short pause , during which she adjusted her head-dress , `` we seldom find much gratitude from poor relations . '' 
Lady Aubrey continued : `` I hope , Sir , you have taught this child to know his situation . '' 
`` I do n't perceive the least family likeness , '' said Lady Aubrey , looking at her glass and me , alternately . 
`` I suppose the poor thing is terribly ignorant , '' continued Lady Aubrey ; `` he has been very much neglected . '' 
`` Well , '' said Lady Aubrey , `` it can not be helped ; we must see what can be done with him . 
Lady Aubrey shook her head and continued : `` You have not seen Sir Sidney ; he is quite a miracle ! 
I was astonished , when she made this assertion , that , during our long journey , we had never once heard his name mentioned . 
On perceiving strangers , he started back , and would have retired , but Lady Aubrey informed him , in a loud whisper , that we were `` people of no consequence , and would be dismissed in a few moments . '' 
Mr. Hanbury repaid the arrogance of Lady Aubrey with a smile of commiseration , as he rose to quit the room , when the young visitor taking my hand exclaimed , `` Where the devil did you come from ? 
said the lordling , smiling at Lady Aubrey . 
`` Pray , my dear Lord , '' interrupted Lady Aubrey , `` do not waste your words in altercation with a pedant ; Mr. Hanbury is an adept in the mazes of controversy ; for he and I have not agreed on any one point , since the first moment we met . '' 
`` A proof of his ignorance , that admits of no denial , '' said Lord Linbourne , bowing affectedly to Lady Aubrey . 
`` Say rather of my sincerity , '' cried Mr. Hanbury : `` my respect for Lady Aubrey will never induce me to flatter her opinions , where I believe them to be erroneous . '' 
`` You will have some difficulty in convincing me that Lady Aubrey can err , '' replied Lord Linbourne . 
My tutor smiled ; `` Lady Aubrey is mortal , '' cried he . 
exclaimed her ladyship , `` I never heard so rude a remark . '' 
At this moment Lady Aubrey first discovered my dog Chance , who had followed me into her dressingroom . 
said she , addressing Mr. Hanbury with evident disgust . 
`` Mr. Ainsforth should know , that he is not authorised to bring a dogkennel into my family , '' said Lady Aubrey . 
I grasped her arm , and struggled to subdue her ; but in vain : he was kicked into the gallery , and I followed , where , seating myself on the stairs with my disgraced companion , I sought relief from a deluge of tears . 
Mr. Hanbury remained with Lady Aubrey , and I heard a warm altercation , which concluded by his abruptly quitting the apartment . 
You see that Lady Aubrey is proud and ungentle ; endeavour to treat her with respect ; and , if you are not happy in a very short time , you shall return with me to Glenowen . '' 
Mrs. Blagden broke in upon our reverie , by informing my tutor , that Lady Aubrey was sorry she had not an apartment to offer him in her hotel ; `` but , '' continued she , `` I have made up a bed for the boy , and my Lady desires that he may not sit up late . '' 
On Mrs. Blagden 's leaving me in total darkness , she charged me , on pain of Lady Aubrey 's displeasure , not to speak , or make the least noise , in the morning , left I should disturb Sir Sidney . 
He adressed me in French ; I could not answer him : Lady Aubrey 's emphatic sarcasm seemed the oracle of truth , and I began to think myself `` terribly ignorant . '' 
Lady Aubrey passed the breakfast hour in conversation with Mr. Hanbury ; and in making remarks , which , in spite of the playfulness of infancy , perpetually attracted my attention . 
She lamented that I was `` so clumsy and unfashioned , '' and was `` certain that nobody would believe I was one of the family ; '' `` though , '' continued Lady Aubrey , `` he is very like his mother , who had a decided antipathy to the graces . '' 
exclaimed Lady Aubrey , while a fudden and unexpected gloom overspread her features ; `` you can not conceive how prettily Walsingham could once recite her epitaph : we used to fit by her tomb whole hours together , and there I taught him to repeat it . '' 
`` Whatever is , is right , '' cried Lady Aubrey , who had watched the emotions of my mind , as they were pictured in my face . 
`` I dare say you would , '' cried Lady Aubrey ; `` but you must not encourage such aspiring ideas . 
I wonder , '' added she , looking at Mr. Hanbury , `` who has taught the child such pernicious nonsense . '' 
`` So much the worse , '' replied Lady Aubrey , `` for arrogance is a thriving weed -- '' `` Which generally grows in a barren soil , '' interrupted Mr. Hanbury . 
`` You have had a subtle tutor , '' said Lady Aubrey , `` and have learnt your lesson admirably ! '' 
`` I hope you will instruct him in the art of pleasing , '' said Lady Aubrey , `` for without much complaisance , he is likely to make but a tardy progress in the fashionable world . '' 
Lady Aubrey , piqued at the sincerity of the retort , continued : -- `` What maxims would you wish to inculcate , where want of fortune is want of every thing ? 
exclaimed Lady Aubrey . 
`` That may be true , '' replied Lady Aubrey ; `` but one likes sometimes to be agreeably deceived . 
`` Besides , '' continued Lady Aubrey , yawning with ennui , `` I should not permit him to destroy his health by poring over books , which ought long ago to have been buried with their authors . 
`` Not at all , '' replied Lady Aubrey . 
`` Why , in the modern acceptation of the word , '' answered Lady Aubrey , `` a being , who by his taciturnity conceals his ignorance ; and by lining his library with black-letter editions , fancies himself a very Mæcenas . '' 
exclaimed Lady Aubrey . 
`` Not altogether , '' said Lady Aubrey . 
`` That may be true , '' replied Lady Aubrey ; `` but I am determined that Sir Sidney shall be an unshackled being . 
The ascendancy which she had acquired over the mind and actions of Lady Aubrey , was menaced by Mr. Hanbury 's rational opinions . 
She beheld in him a powerful rival ; her envy was only to be equalled by her malice , and she determined on revenge , whatever consequences might attend it . 
Sir Sidney and Mrs. Blagden went airing in Lady Aubrey 's carriage , while Mr. Hanbury strolled with me and my dog Chance , towards the environs of Nice . 
`` Walsingham , '' said Mr. Hanbury , with a grave and penetrating tone , which vibrated on the heart , `` I fear that our situation in Lady Aubrey 's family will be wholly insupportable . 
Distance is the strongest bond of attachment , to minds tinctured with pride , and apt to sicken under the fatigues of hospitality ; removed from Lady Aubrey 's presence , she will , perhaps , remember you with compunction ; and compunction may rekindle in her bosom the latent spark of affection , which now seems almost extinguished . 
We will return to Glenowen ; -- we will not stoop to the caprice of Lady Aubrey . 
`` As soon as we can form a decisive opinion respecting Lady Aubrey 's intentions , '' replied my tutor . 
`` Nothing that is done rashly can be done well : we must examine her mind , and draw our inferences from its prominent features . 
In the mean time let it be your task to treat her with respect , because she was your mother 's sister , and your earliest friend . '' 
On our return to the hotel , we found a tailor waiting to provide me such clothes as would be proper for the protegée of Lady Aubrey ; though I observed that the patterns were of an inferior quality to those worn by Sir Sidney . 
Lady Aubrey , by a glance of contempt , acknowledged his suggestion , which did not offend her pride , because it was proof against pity . 
After a short pause she continued : `` Mind , Walsingham , that you take care of your clothes ; and recollect that you can not have a wardrobe like Sir Sidney : you are not among the mountains now , child . '' 
said I , interrupting her and sighing , `` I should then be happy . '' 
`` I hope not , '' said Lady Aubrey , looking earnestly at my tutor , who only answered with a smile of disdain , which was clearly understood by Mrs. Blagden . 
Lady Aubrey started . 
exclaimed Lady Aubrey , `` and I am the dupe of my own benevolent heart . 
`` Indeed I am Walsingham , '' said I , taking her hand and pressing it to my lips . 
Lady Aubrey 's heart seemed to shiver at the question , while tears gushed from my eyes involuntarily . 
She endeavoured to separate me from Lady Aubrey , whose hand I grasped with convulsive agitation . 
I fell upon my knees , and held her by the gown ; she endeavoured to go ; I still hung about her . 
Lady Aubrey quitted the room , followed by Mrs. Blagden and Sir Sidney , who , as he passed me , took my hand , and shook it . 
`` Am I not Lady Aubrey 's nephew ? 
`` Where is Lady Aubrey ? '' 
`` Granted ; because it is a million to one , '' replied Mr. Hanbury , `` that she is unequalled ; for , if the human heart was ever impregnated with the malice of a fiend , it is the heart of Lady Aubrey . '' 
`` I can not hear Lady Aubrey slandered , '' replied Lord Linbourne , `` and shall uphold her conduct at all hazards . '' 
`` Whether she be right or wrong ? '' 
`` By the laws of good breeding , '' answered the angry boy ; `` a woman of Lady Aubrey 's rank in society , has a right to do whatever she thinks proper : she is not amenable to the vulgar , and I will defend her at the peril of my life . '' 
`` Any man that presumes to calumniate Lady Aubrey , must draw up his charges with the point of his sword ; and , as for justice and humanity , we will leave them to the laws and the surgeon , for the benefit of the survivor . '' 
`` To every man breathing , '' replied Lord Linbourne , `` who attaches disgrace to the name of Lady Aubrey . '' 
`` Then I pronounce her , infamous ! '' 
One , who disclaims the innocence that would honour her name , at the same time that she upholds the wretch who will damn it to posterity . '' 
Am I the calumniator of Lady Aubrey ? 
My lord , can you defend her conduct ? '' 
Lafond at this instant summoned Lord Linbourne to Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room : as soon as he was gone , the inquisitive valet again entered into conversation with Mr. Hanbury , not without laughing heartily at the chagrin he observed in his countenance . 
Mr. Hanbury , equally amazed at the effrontery , and bewildered by the incomprehensible language of Monsieur Lafond , made no reply ; encouraged by his silence the valet proceeded -- `` You are incredulous as to the conduct of Lady Aubrey ; now , if you have a mind to be convinced , I will bring you to the proof of her folly , and you shall hear her full conviction from her own lips . 
In a small boudoir , adjoining her bed-chamber , you may conceal yourself when she retires to rest . 
Her favourite is her constant companion , and she never fails to unbosom all the secrets of her heart before she lays her head upon her pillow . '' 
As Lafond uttered these words , Lady Aubrey entered the room ; we separated , and the conversation ended . 
During the remainder of the day my tutor 's mind was agitated in the extreme ; a variety of painful sensations , all of which were tinctured with resentment and augmented by curiosity , told him , that there was something strangely mysterious in the conduct of Lady Aubrey , and the language of Lafond . 
I was ordered to bed at an earlier hour than usual , and Mr. Hanbury took his leave of Lady Aubrey . 
For this purpose I stole from my closet , passed Sir Sidney 's apartment , and , unseen , arrived at the boudoir which led to Lady Aubrey 's chamber . 
Shortly after I had taken my stand near the door of Lady Aubrey 's apartment , I heard her enter with Mrs. Blagden . 
`` Is safe in my ivory cabinet at Glenowen , '' answered Lady Aubrey . 
`` Such was my meaning , '' replied Lady Aubrey ; `` but the villany of the deed arrested my hand , and I was at least deterred from that enormity . '' 
-- Her voice was tremulous , as though she shuddered . 
`` I think as you do , Blagden , '' answered Lady Aubrey ; `` but we must proceed with infinite caution ; any violent or precipitate conduct on my part would awaken his suspicion , and interest him more than ever in Walsingham 's favour . 
do not name his mother , '' exclaimed Lady Aubrey , `` lest I should forget my obligations to you , and relent in favour of her ill-fated offspring . 
Mrs. Blagden muttered a reply which betrayed her discontent and silenced Lady Aubrey : they parted , and I heard the duenna ascend the stairs to Sir Sidney 's chamber . 
It was impossible for me to return to my closet without her seeing me ; therefore I threw myself gently on the carpet , and resolved to pass the night in my place of concealment . 
Determining to throw myself on the mercy of Lady Aubrey , I rose hastily , and was endeavouring to find the door of her appartment , when my feet were suddenly arrested by the sound of footsteps in her chamber . 
I concluded that Lady Aubrey was still awake , and , led on by compunction which was poignant and irresistible , I rushed into her apartment : but how shall I describe my consternation when I heard Lady Aubrey shriek , and beheld her sinking , overwhelmed with confusion , into the arms of Lord Linbourne ? 
I fell upon my knees , and conjured her to forgive me : I wept aloud , and every moment expected to receive my death from the Viscount 's sword , which lay on Lady Aubrey 's toilette . 
`` If you tell that you found Lord Linbourne in my chamber , '' said Lady Aubrey with a faultering voice , and a countenance pale as a spectre ; `` if you reveal it , even to your tutor Mr. Hanbury , I will discard you for ever ; you shall be banished from my affections while living and die at last a miserable beggar . '' 
At this moment I heard Mrs. Blagden descending from her apartment , and presently followed a gentle tap at Lady Aubrey 's chamber door ; Lord Linbourne concealed himself beneath the toilette , and my virtuous aunt , with an unruffled tone and a countenance of assumed surprise , demanded her reason for returning . 
Lady Aubrey was an expert deceiver ; her finesse was more than equal to the low subtlety of her tyrannical counsellor : an excuse was framed , and alleged , with the promptitude of a practised imagination ; she informed Mrs. Blagden , that I had fallen asleep in her boudoir ; and , that , on waking , my surprize and fear of offending excited that distress which had probably drawn her from her chamber . 
`` Here , '' said Lady Aubrey , `` take the poor fellow to his bed ; for , Heaven knows , I sincerely forgive him . '' 
I reluctantly gave my hand , and suffered her to lead me . 
As Mrs. Blagden led me out of the apartment , I looked earnestly towards the toilette which concealed Lady Aubrey 's lover . 
She observed my thoughts , as my eyes revealed them , and loaded me with caresses till I reached the door . 
My gay apparel was brought home , and I was , to use Lady Aubrey 's expression , at last , `` fit to be seen . '' 
How kind Lady Aubrey is ! '' 
Lady Aubrey kept her eyes constantly upon me , and every word that I whispered , during the morning , called a blush upon her cheek which shame , more than modesty , excited . 
She appeared to be the most miserable of the human race ; in the midst of splendour , conscious of guilt , and fearful of detection . 
Her countenance was agitated , her hand trembled , her lip quivered , whenever she attempted to speak : still watching me with a mixture of apprehension and pride , which combined to torture her bosom incessantly . 
I could not help commiserating her feelings ; she is guilty , thought I , and she is sufficiently punished . 
Lady Aubrey , where did you find this little negro ? '' 
My wrath began to master my discretion , when Mrs. Blagden replied , courtesying and smiling , `` He is a poor little Welch mountaineer , my Lady ; born on the manor of Glenowen , and dependent on the bounty of Lady Aubrey . '' 
`` Lady Aubrey is my aunt , and Sir Sidney is my cousin . '' 
A loud laugh followed , and Lady Aubrey , whose rage had been with difficulty kept silent , requested Mr. Hanbury not to trouble her friends , or interrupt the music with his ill-judged observations . 
I accompanied my tutor to his hotel , where he wrote several letters hastily ; but before they were sealed , a servant announced Mr. M'Arthur , whom Mr. Hanbury instantly recognized as the last person he had seen enter the room at Lady Aubrey 's . 
Lord Linbourne is young and volatile ; Lady Aubrey vain and mischievous ; you must not endanger your own life , or stigmatize his lordship 's reputation , for a little boyish raillery . '' 
`` Sir , I am very awkwardly situated , '' replied my tutor calmly ; `` Lady Aubrey 's conduct is peculiarly indelicate . '' 
`` You mean to say that she is your patroness . 
Do you owe any serious obligations to her ladyship ? '' 
`` Know then , '' answered Mr. Hanbury , `` that my father is under obligations to Lady Aubrey , though I am not : this youth is her nephew ; I am his protector . '' 
Mr. M'Arthur left the room , and Mr. Hanbury finished a letter which he had begun to Lady Aubrey , recommending me to her protection . 
Lady Aubrey dined with Lady Emily Delvin . 
My situation had frequently been insupportable under Lady Aubrey 's roof , had I not found a companion in my dog Chance , whose instinct evinced a degree of attachment , doubly gratifying , amidst the persecutions of pride . 
As evening advanced , I stole down stairs , to the drawing-room , where I found Lady Aubrey in the most violent perturbation . 
A note from Mr. M'Arthur was shortly after delivered to her , informing her that the rencontre had taken place , and that Mr. Hanbury was dangerously wounded . 
Lady Aubrey consented to my departure , and I hastened to my tutor with all possible expedition . 
In the course of a fortnight , he was sufficiently recovered to make Lady Aubrey 's hotel his habitation ; for , during his confinement , she had not failed to visit him daily , and to sit by his bed-side whole hours together . 
Mr. M'Arthur was also a constant inquirer , from whom we learnt , that Lord Linbourne had transferred his assiduities to Lady Emily Delvin , and , since the rencontre with Mr. Hanbury , had wholly withdrawn himself from the society of Lady Aubrey . 
From this circumstance it was evident that her attentions to Mr. Hanbury were meant only to excite the jealousy of his antagonist : but the gentle offices of even a feigned attachment , sometimes prove dangerous experiments ; and those who have encouraged the sentiment of compassion , frequently find it a term synonymous with love . 
One day , during Mr. Hanbury 's confinement , I entered his chamber abruptly , and found Lady Aubrey sitting near his pillow . 
Lady Aubrey seemed wholly insensible of my approach , and frequently addressed Mr. Hanbury in terms of the most ardent affection . 
She reproached herself for having been the origin of his danger , and assured him that in case he should recover , her conduct should convince him of her sincere contrition . 
Her warm and unbounded professions of regard were sealed by an unequivocal bond : she kissed his hand , and sighed with more than common tenderness . 
I was delighted by her kindness , and availed myself of her good humour , to demand a similar proof of affection ; she started , and with evident confusion complied with my request . 
Mr. Hanbury had been the inmate of Lady Aubrey 's mansion only a few days , when , as I lay in my closet adjoining Sir Sidney 's nursery , I heard my aunt and Mrs. Blagden in earnest conversation . 
replied Lady Aubrey . 
`` You shall be the first , my dear Blagden , '' said Lady Aubrey , endeavouring to sooth her : `` Heaven knows how much I esteem you ; and how happy I shall be to render you every benefit in my power . 
`` He shall have any thing that I can command , '' said Lady Aubrey . 
`` You shall have four hundred pounds , '' replied Lady Aubrey : `` I will write to my banker , and he shall send it to your brother . '' 
interrupted Lady Aubrey ; `` can you suppose me capable of such folly ? 
exclaimed Lady Aubrey ; `` can you entertain such an opinion of me ? '' 
Lady Aubrey conjured her to be patient ; and consoled her by a thousand kind and gentle promises of future favour . 
I was astonished at the insolence of Mrs. Blagden , and still more at the meek submission of the haughty Lady Aubrey : but there is scarcely a poison which has not its antidote , and guilt will never fail to find its own scorpion to punish and torment it . 
They now muttered low , and I ventured forth from my closet : on opening the door I beheld Lady Aubrey on her knees before Mrs. Blagden . 
`` He shall go , I promise you ; by all that is sacred , he shall go immediately , '' said Lady Aubrey with earnest agitation . 
Lady Aubrey soon after entered the room , and the conversation was interrupted . 
I drew close by her chair to examine her eyes ; they were red with weeping . 
I longed to ask her why she was kneeling to Mrs. Blagden , but the fear of offending my tutor restrained my tongue , and nothing further was then said on the subject . 
I quitted the chamber , and flew to find the inexorable governess ; she was in the nursery with Sir Sidney ; my refentment was not to be appeased ; my curiosity demanded some explanation why Lady Aubrey , whose proud and overbearing mind spurned every other restraint , should be the mean and crouching suppliant of such a fiend as Mrs. Blagden . 
Even the resisting spirit of Lady Aubrey submitted to her guidance ; and the entire management of Sir Sidney was entrusted to her judgment and discretion . 
It was Sir Sidney 's daily custom to take the air in Lady Aubrey 's carriage with Mrs. Blagden . 
Though my own observation had suggested the idea , I was nevertheless pleased to hear it confirmed by Mr. Hanbury 's opinion ; and we conversed on the subject till we arrived at Lady Aubrey 's hotel . 
Deprived of one dear parent , and estranged from the other , deserted by Lady Aubrey , snarled at by the domestics at Glenowen , I was a stranger to happiness till Mr. Hanbury afforded me his protection . 
Lady Aubrey received her child with rapturous affection . 
She clasped him to her heart , and kissed him with all a mother 's fondness . 
But the joy which palpitated in her bosom scarcely allowed her the power of reflection , when , turning towards me , she exclaimed , `` Cruel and unnatural boy ! 
It was in vain that Mr. Hanbury explained the nature of the accident ; in vain that I assured Lady Aubrey of my innocence : Mrs. Blagden had suggested the idea , and her voice was considered as the oracle of wisdom . 
`` Yet hear me , Lady Aubrey , '' said Mr. Hanbury . 
`` It is to no purpose that you endeavour to exculpate the cruel monster , '' interrupted Mrs. Blagden ; `` I am certain that my lady will not dispute my word : if I am not to be believed in such a trifling matter , the sooner I quit Lady Aubrey 's family the better . '' 
`` By what law is Lady Aubrey bound to provide for a beggarly relation ? '' 
But , '' continued my tutor with stern indignation , `` I can pity Lady Aubrey , when I recollect that she is under the control of such a monitress ! '' 
`` Is this the treatment I am to experience for having so long -- -- '' `` No , no , '' interrupted Lady Aubrey , trembling and alarmed , `` I do not authorize any one to affront you ; and I am sure that Mr. Hanbury is too liberal to insult a woman . '' 
But I see how it is , my Lady ; therefore , let those who give you counsel keep your secrets ; and since you do not credit my assertions -- -- '' `` I do ; I do credit every thing you say , '' replied the intimidated Lady Aubrey , taking her hand , and soothing her . 
As she pronounced these words a sudden suffusion covered the cheek of the conscious Lady Aubrey ; she looked earnestly at me , and muttering `` Infamous little wretch ! '' 
hung her head , overpowered with confusion . 
The pause of silence which followed , gave new vigour to Mrs. Blagden 's rage ; till Mr. Hanbury , no longer able to endure her insults , quitted Lady Aubrey 's hotel , taking me with him , and resolving , on the following morning to set out for England . 
Sir Sidney had taken such a fancy to my favourite , Chance , that Lady Aubrey insisted on our leaving him behind us . 
Lady Aubrey would take no denial -- and Mr. Hanbury persuaded me to gratify her wish , in hopes that my compliance might soften her resentment . 
The news of Mr. Hanbury 's death had been conveyed to Lady Aubrey during our journey from Nice to Glenowen ; and , by the following post , my tutor received a letter , presenting him the living , with credit on her banker for five hundred pounds to improve and embellish the parsonage . 
She expressed her regret that Mrs. Blagden 's violence of temper had occasioned the separation ; and , though she never even mentioned me in her letter , it contained many professions of regard and affection towards Mr. Hanbury . 
I could not help drawing many painful comparisons betwixt his conduct and that of Lady Aubrey . 
She too had an amiable sister ; I was the only offspring of that sister ; and yet , I was , with all my claims to pity and protection , abandoned , spurned , forgotten ! 
Lady Aubrey removed from Nice , and fixed her residence in Switzerland . 
The conflagration had commenced in Lady Aubrey 's apartment ; the flames burst through the windows , and menaced the destruction of the whole fabric . 
I stood almost petrified with horror ; when , by a sudden blaze which issued from the roof , I discovered that the last article which I had brought from Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room , was the ivory cabinet which contained the fiat of my destiny . 
Lady Aubrey will love you ; she will thank you for your exertions ; -- what you have done this night will -- '' `` Disgrace me eternally ! '' 
Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room contained many papers of importance . '' 
`` He has received several letters from Lady Aubrey , since her residence on the continent , charging him to keep those apartments locked ; particularly that which contained the cabinet of ivory . '' 
`` So it appears by the solemn injunctions repeated in Lady Aubrey 's letters to Mr. Martlet , '' replied my tutor . 
The costly apartments which Lady Aubrey had embellished ; the ancient and lonely chamber where I had slept , when Sir Sidney 's birth annihilated all my visionary hopes ; the hall where Sir Edward 's corpse had rested in state ; and the portrait on which I had gazed with such fond distress , when I first quitted Glenowen , were all consumed by the devouring flames , and lost for ever . 
The mysterious language which , in my childhood , I had heard fall from the lips of Lady Aubrey respecting the ivory cabinet , had never been communicated to my tutor ; I dreaded the reproaches which would follow a confession , that I had descended to the degrading task of listening with the hope of prying into the secrets of another . 
Sometimes I meditated the plan of burying the cabinet , till Lady Aubrey 's return to England : at others , I resolved to unsold the whole mystery to Isabella ; but the dread of her disapprobation soon overpowered the dawning rectitude , which would in some measure have extenuated my original fault , and put a period to the progress of my criminality . 
`` There is more danger in your zeal than kindness in your solicitude , '' said I. `` Rest satisfied that Lady Aubrey 's property is safe , -- and that I am honest . '' 
Assist me in conveying the cabinet to some place of safety , and then take charge of it yourself till Lady Aubrey 's return to England . 
`` To whom can we so safely confide the property of Lady Aubrey , as to her confidential servant ? '' 
He had for many months neglected writing to me ; and , never having seen him since I first became the protegée of Lady Aubrey , the very cords of nature seemed slackened to inertion . 
The manor-house had been rebuilt on a more extensive plan , and with great magnificence ; the period was fixed for my quitting college ; only two months more were to terminate my studies , when I received a letter from Isabella containing the following intelligence -- `` Splendid preparations are making at Glenowen for the return of Lady Aubrey and her family : Mrs. Blagden has written a letter to Mr. Martlet , full of panegyric on your cousin , Sir Sidney , whom she describes as the handsomest and most accomplished of mortals ! 
I paced to and fro in my study -- snatched up the letter -- read the superscription , shuddered -- cursed my fate , and again threw it on the ground in a paroxysm of despair ; till at length , with a sort of desperate resolution , I broke the seal and read as follows -- `` Lady Aubrey arrived yesterday ; Sir Sidney is an angel ! 
His words distracted me : he flew towards the portico of the manor-house , where Lady Aubrey was sitting . 
Lady Aubrey 's pride and arrogance had not been worn away by the passing pinions of time ; she received me coldly , and , by a frown of reproof , endeavoured to check the warm and generous zeal which Sir Sidney was emulous of evincing . 
`` These sallies , '' said Lady Aubrey , while every feature settled into a sullen indignation , `` these absurd sallies are -- '' `` The spontaneous effusions of the heart , my dearest mother , '' interrupted Sir Sidney . 
We were interrupted by Lady Aubrey , who had been strolling along the park , and the conversation ended . 
As soon as dinner was ended , during which Lady Aubrey 's chilling austerity kept the circle silent , Sir Sidney proposed a ramble towards the mountains . 
`` Make my court '' to Lady Aubrey ! 
Lady Aubrey persevered in a taciturnity which afforded me leisure to be wretched . 
After many struggles between pride and affection , I again repaired to Lady Aubrey 's . 
`` It is already morning , '' said Lady Aubrey peevishly . 
`` If learning wears so forbidding an aspect , '' cried Lady Aubrey , '' 't is folly to be wise . 
inquired Lady Aubrey . 
Lady Aubrey was silenced by this rebuke , and the retrospect of her adventure with Lord Linbourne afforded her food for rumination , while it augmented her hatred towards me . 
The more I suffered from inquietude , the more Lady Aubrey enjoyed my chagrin , and muttered coarse remarks . 
On entering the manor-house I found a new visitor ; Colonel Aubrey , the uncle of Sir Sidney , the long-neglected brother of the deceased Sir Edward . 
My aunt had never been a favourite of Colonel Aubrey 's ; and since the birth of Sir Sidney , all intercourse between them had wholly subsided . 
She had uniformly endeavoured to estrange them from each other , by representing the early life of her neglected kinsman , as stigmatized with profligacy and blackened by ingratitude towards the deceased Sir Edward . 
Colonel Aubrey had served with distinguished reputation , but his fortune was unequal to his necessities , and his generosity had long set economy at defiance . 
At the siege of Gibraltar in the year 1781 , Colonel Aubrey had been severely wounded . 
From the courteous and over-acted attentions of Lady Aubrey , during dinner , it was evident that she was a stranger to the worldly situation of her guest . 
As soon as the dessert was placed upon the table , she began to expatiate on the great wealth of her son , and its vast accumulation during his minority . 
`` For his sake , '' said she , `` I have consented to bury myself in Switzerland , and to live upon my jointure . 
interrupted Colonel Aubrey . 
exclaimed Lady Aubrey , `` you talk like a child ; fame is no bad recommendation for a soldier , but I believe you would hardly be such an embecile as to exchange your solid estate for his airy reputation . '' 
`` Indeed , madam , '' replied Colonel Aubrey , `` there is too much truth in your assertion ! 
Lady Aubrey 's face suddenly changed colour , while her eyes assumed a broader circle , and her whole frame stiffened with astonishment . 
`` And pray , Sir , '' cried Lady Aubrey , `` where are my feelings , that they are not to be consulted ? '' 
`` You are hasty in your decisions , '' cried my aunt , fidgeting on her chair , and growing crimson with ill-humour . 
Colonel Aubrey renewed his petition . 
`` A very modest request , '' replied Lady Aubrey . 
`` And pray , Colonel Aubrey , what recompence is my son to expect for his generosity ? '' 
said Lady Aubrey , happy in having an opportunity to unburthen the rage that swelled within her bosom . 
vociferated Lady Aubrey . 
Colonel Aubrey walked with Mr. Hanbury , his sister , and myself while Sir Sidney loitered behind in serious conversation with his mother , and by the tones of his voice evidently expostulating with her on the subject of his uncle 's vist . 
As the western glow began to shut in , and we were descending the path from the summit of a mountain , Colonel Aubrey stopped abrupty : `` I once thought this a beautiful prospect ! '' 
We returned to supper ; my cousin was pensive and melancholy during the remainder of the evening : he availed himself of every opportunity to converse with his uncle : his voice was low , but his manner was energetic : Lady Aubrey was restless and impatient , till the hour arrived when the party separated . 
She can not do otherwise than love him ! 
There was a frankness about Colonel Aubrey , which seemed the prominent feature of his mind . 
The contrast he presented when compared with Lady Aubrey , spread such deformity over all her mental features , that the contemplative eye turned from them with abhorrence . 
Lady Aubrey had pleaded indisposition the whole morning , as the cause of remaining in her chamber ; though her motives originated in her determination to avoid Colonel Aubrey . 
At table , Lady Aubrey was more than usually haughty and reserved , as if to check the importunities which she expected on the former subject . 
A cold and general salutation when she entered the dining-room , indicated that frozen avarice which placed a shield before her heart to repel the gentle touches of pity and benevolence . 
Living only for herself , she knew no throb of sympathy for those who , with more virtue , were less happy ; while under the plausible pretext of enriching one darling object , she denied the commiserating sigh to all the rest of the creation . 
At dinner Lady Aubrey renewed the subject of the former debate , but in language so chilling , that every hearer anticipated her decision . 
After placing herself in an attitude of ceremonious rigidity , and settling every feature by the rules of repulsive form , she opened the important business . 
`` I have been thinking , '' cried Lady Aubrey , addressing herself to the brave petitioner , `` of your very ridiculous request ; and really , upon mature consideration , wholly divested of prejudice , I do not feel justified in robbing Sir Sidney , to feed your inordinate extravagance . '' 
`` Suppose my nephew consents to the sacrifice , '' said Colonel Aubrey , with a mixture of diffidence and chagrin , which was felt by every one present . 
Lady Aubrey proceeded -- `` Three thousand pounds , give me leave to tell you , Colonel , is a sum of great magnitude : Sir Sidney has had to rebuild the manor-house , and my losses , when the old mansion was consumed , were very considerable . 
`` Never till this moment , '' replied Colonel Aubrey ; `` but I believe that your ladyship is mistaken in the estimate of Mr. Ainsforth 's fortune ; he has prospects which place him far above want , and the means to live , beyond the reach of ostentation . '' 
Lady Aubrey smiled ; it was the smile of scepticism ; Sir Sidney 's agitation was visible . 
cried Lady Aubrey trembling with rage and indignation ; `` I believe , Sir , you will find some difficulty in relinquishing that which you never possessed . 
`` One would think , '' cried Lady Aubrey , `` that you had been taught humility by living so long on the bounty of Mr. Hanbury , who , I am sorry to perceive , has only poisoned your mind , by raising your expectations above your fortune . '' 
interrupted Colonel Aubrey ; `` he shall not want your friendship ; I will adopt him ; he shall have a soldier 's fortune ; I will give him a commission in my regiment , and we will henceforth seek death or prosperity together : for may I be disgraced , if ever I withdraw my protection on this side the grave . '' 
cried Lady Aubrey . 
Colonel Aubrey , '' continued Sir Sidney , `` I must speak with you in private . '' 
They rose to quit the room , and Lady Aubrey fainted . 
Lady Aubrey in a few minutes began to revive ; her countenance was eagerly inquisitive ; she looked earnestly round , but her meaning was a mystery . 
`` Sidney , '' said she , with a tremulous and agitated voice , `` command your fortune , obey the dictates of your heart ; but recall your rash and unfeeling menace . '' 
Lady Aubrey 's agitation increased with every word Sir Sidney uttered , till she rose and retired to her chamber . 
In half an hour Mrs. Blagden delivered a letter to Colonel Aubrey , containing a draft for the sum he requested , and an apology for not appearing , on account of indisposition . 
In the course of the day I made a serious proposal to accompany Colonel Aubrey on his return to Gibraltar ; Sir Sidney implored me to relinquish the idea ; repeated the warmest professions of friendship , and assured me that if I would remain at Glenowen , I should share his fortune : I thanked him , but declined the offer . 
Colonel Aubrey , notwithstanding my readiness to accede to his proposal , would not suffer me to decide rashly on an event which might form the main spring of every future action . 
I had for several days absented myself from the manor-house , when I again urged him to sanction Colonel Aubrey 's proposal ; he shuddered -- while I pleaded the ambition of a warm and youthful bosom , where every vein panted for independence . 
We conversed incessantly on the inhumanity of Lady Aubrey , and Mr. Hanbury 's praises of Sir Sidney were unbounded : `` He is a great favourite of Isabella 's , '' said he , `` and I fear that she is more attached to him already than is consistent with the safety of her repose . '' 
`` I had them from Isabella , '' replied Mr. Hanbury ; `` she found them between the leaves of a book which she borrowed from Lady Aubrey 's library . '' 
She did not return from Lady Aubrey 's till the close of twilight , and as soon as I heard her approaching the parsonage , I hastened to my chamber . 
Sir Sidney had accompanied her along the park ; at the end of the garden I heard him with her `` a pleasant evening with the amiable Walsingham . '' 
My blood foamed in every vein : his ironical expression appeared little less than a new insult : she thanked him ; I heard them whisper , and I beheld her , by the light of the moon , tripping , with more than usual gaiety , along the garden . 
She sung an air which Sir Sidney had taught her the preceding evening ; every note penetrated my heart , and the hours , till day-break , were passed in agony . 
He rose hastily ; he rung the bell ; a servant entered ; Sir Sidney demanded , `` Where is Lady Aubrey ? '' 
`` In her chamber , not yet dressed , '' was the answer . 
At this moment Colonel Aubrey entered the room ; Sir Sidney darted by him , and I stood like a statue , petrified by consternation . 
exclaimed Colonel Aubrey : `` this is a new and strange kind of warfare ; the victor flies , and the vanquished remains master of the field ! 
exclaimed Colonel Aubrey ; `` nothing less than the most unnatural frenzy ! 
Colonel Aubrey followed me . 
Colonel Aubrey glanced significantly towards me ; his looks augmented my humiliation . 
This distressing embarrassment to all parties was interrupted by Colonel Aubrey , who requested that I would walk with him towards the mountain -- `` And I will accompany you , '' said Miss Hanbury ; `` for as Sir Sidney seems inclined to meditation , I shall only interrupt him . '' 
We had scarcely advanced ten paces , when a shriek from Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room , the windows of which were open , arrested our footsteps . 
On entering the apartment from which the alarm proceeded , we beheld Lady Aubrey pale , and unable to utter a syllable , holding Sir Sidney 's arm , whose hand grasped a pistol , and whose whole frame was convulsed with agitation . 
She quitted the room , followed by Colonel Aubrey and Isabella . 
Lady Aubrey will never consent to an alliance between Sir Sidney and my sister , and Isabella 's pride will prove an insuperable bar to a clandestine union . '' 
I had concluded from his former conversation , that Mr. Hanbury was assured of Lady Aubrey 's consent , and that the marriage was considered as an affair of certainty . 
`` If you sanction the addresses of Sir Sidney , Lady Aubrey will not be averse to their success , '' said I. `` Where can the heir of Glenowen find so honourable an alliance ? 
Lady Aubrey informed us that Sir Sidney was somewhat more composed , but that he chose , during the remainder of the day , to continue in his chamber . 
On the following morning , Colonel Aubrey came early to the parsonage : Mr. Hanbury and Isabella were absent , and , as he found me alone , our discourse turned on the conduct of my aunt , and Sir Sidney 's rash attempt on his own life . 
Colonel Aubrey 's manner indicated a mind labouring to unfold some hidden secret : he walked about with an evident uneasiness , which , at times , broke forth in half-suppressed ejaculations , and at others absorbed him in profound silence . 
I heard a conversation this morning in Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room , which is adjoining to the chamber where I slept , and there does not remain a doubt in my mind of its importance . 
`` For Heaven 's sake be brief , '' said I. `` Lady Aubrey , '' continued he , `` reproved her son for his rash and criminal conduct . 
` Reflect for a momoment , ' said she , ` and recover your fortitude . 
said Lady Aubrey . 
cried Lady Aubrey . 
The hour of repentance will arrive when your miseries will be irremediable , ' said Lady Aubrey . 
` Romantic folly ' exclaimed Lady Aubrey : ` this is the language of a maniac ! ' 
The wants of Colonel Aubrey , the gloom of poverty which overshadows the laurels he has won , and his inestimable virtues , so long neglected , combine to awaken pangs which nothing can alleviate . 
` Then I will follow Colonel Aubrey 's fortune , ' cried Sir Sidney . 
`` Lady Aubrey was silent , but I could distinctly hear her weep and sob incessantly . 
` They were educated together : their situations in life are similar : the union would be sanctioned by equality , ' replied Lady Aubrey . 
`` Lady Aubrey again remonstrated : Sir Sidney persevered in his determination , till she left him in a paroxysm of rage . 
Colonel Aubrey having concluded his account of the morning 's interview , requested to hear my opinion . 
`` It is evident , '' cried he , `` that Isabella 's want of rank and fortune excludes her from Lady Aubrey 's favour . 
-- We were interrupted by Mr. Hanbury ; I took Colonel Aubrey aside ; conjured him not to divulge what had passed , and promised to talk farther with him on the business at the close of evening . 
The kind and manly conduct of Colonel Aubrey inspired me with a sort of desperate resolution , which is often the substitute for genuine fortitude . 
Colonel Aubrey joined Isabella , and they turned towards the wood . 
A project occurred , uncertain as it was desperate -- I hesitated a moment , and then flew to find Lady Aubrey . 
She was in her chamber ; the magnitude of my distress , the event which hurried me on to madness , made me forgetful of the decorum which at any other period I should not have violated -- I knocked hastily at the door of her apartment , she bade me enter : I started back almost petrified with surprize , for the first object that met my eye was the ivory cabinet which , with all my remaining hopes , I had entrusted to the care of Mr. Hanbury . 
My looks betrayed the perturbation of my mind ; -- they terrified Lady Aubrey -- she rose abruptly from her seat , and would have passed towards the door : I caught her arm and held her -- `` You go not , madam , '' said I sternly , `` You , move not , while I have strength to hold you : the hour is come when we must lay aside the trivial forms of ceremony , and speak without reserve . '' 
She trembled and grew pale . 
Lady Aubrey 's timidity was the result of guilt : her eyes involuntarily turned with a ghastly expression , towards the cabinet . 
Every glance augmented my indignation ; she struggled to get from me -- she shrieked -- I commanded her to be silent -- `` If you wish to avoid eternal disgrace , '' said I , `` you will restrain your rage , and , without compulsion , discover the contents of that repository : my situation is desperate , and I will be obeyed . '' 
Lady Aubrey shook in every joint ; the cold drops stood , like witnesses of her guilt , on her livid forehead ; her hesitation irritated my already desperate mind , and I led her , by force , towards the cabinet . 
-- On the ivory lid lay Sir Sidney 's pistol -- it had been removed from his chamber by Lady Aubrey , the preceding evening . 
Still she resisted , and still I grasped her arm . 
cried she ; `` Is it my life ? '' 
She drew a key from her pocket , and with a trembling hand presented it to me : I turned to open the folding doors in the front of the cabinet , when she seized the pistol , and presenting it to my breast , bade me desist . 
At this moment Mrs. Blagden entered the room ; her shrieks arrested my hand , just as I discovered that the key which I had received from Lady Aubrey was a false one , merely given to divert my attention , and to favour her infernal purpose . 
Lady Aubrey 's terrors convinced me that something of importance was concealed from the eye of justice ; therefore , after leading her and Mrs. Blagden out of the room , I fastened the door , and went immediately in search of Mr. Hanbury . 
The high road lay at no great distance , but I had again to cross the corner of the park : all the sorrows of my life recurred at that dreadful moment ; I recollected my continental journey from Glenowen ; the early neglect of Lady Aubrey ; the agonies that my little bosom felt when Sir Sidney first supplanted me . 
I know that you can never marry without exposing yourself to ruin and disgrace by disobeying the commands of Lady Aubrey ; yet we will not separate : I will mock the world 's surmises ; and , by the zeal and fidelity of my attachment , deprecate its scorn . 
The report alarmed the family ; -- the domestics came running towards us : -- I heard Colonel Aubrey 's voice : -- for Isabella 's sake I dreaded an explanation : and , bewildered by contending agonies , escaped , leaving Sir Sidney to explain the adventure . 
I had abandoned my kind , my generous tutor ; rejected the liberal proposal made by Colonel Aubrey ; and deserted my home like a guilty coward ! 
I opened them hastily : one bore the signature of Sir Sidney , the other of Colonel Aubrey . 
Lady Aubrey supposes that the pistol was fired by me , and is at a loss to account for your precipitate retreat from Glenowen . 
`` W. A. '' Colonel Aubrey 's letter contained only a few lines , and those briefly tendering his friendship , and conjuring me to wait for him at Bath . 
I resolved to make the best of my way towards Bristol , to solicit the protection and temporary aid of my early friend Mr. Randolph ; and , in case success should attend my experiment , to accept Colonel Aubrey 's proposal , and return with him to Gibraltar . 
I read the proposal several times ; and after weighing it in my own mind , thought it more eligible than my plan of accompanying Colonel Aubrey to Gibraltar . 
In a short time after I separated from my forlorn companion , I arrived at Bath ; where , on entering the first inn , and being ushered into a parlour , I proceeded to examine the paper which the stranger had given me : judge of my consternation , my grief , my surprise , when I read the address of Mr. Randolph , in the hand-writing of the detested Lady Aubrey . 
My own necessities , and the calumnies of Lady Aubrey , excited sensations which soon subsided ; but the regret which I felt on the conviction of Mr. Randolph 's ruin , sunk deep into my heart , and overwhelmed it with sorrow . 
As soon as I had recovered from the surprise which Lady Aubrey 's letter occasioned , I rushed forth from the inn , and hastened to the bridge which crosses the Avon on entering Bath . 
I had scarcely proceeded a mile , when I met Colonel Aubrey 's chaise : he was alone . 
I frankly confessed all that had passed , on the night previous to my quitting Glenowen ; and firmly resolved never to return thither , during the lifetime of the detestable Lady Aubrey . 
A servant had hired apartments on the South Parade , and Colonel Aubrey , with little persuasion , prevailed on me to remain with him during his residence at Bath . 
Colonel Aubrey frequently mingled in society , but never could induce me to accompany him . 
Three weeks passed , and no answer arrived from Lady Kencarth ; my chagrin augmented by the increasing indisposition of Colonel Aubrey , and I began to consider all the efforts of fortitude as weak and ineffectual . 
My melancholy humour at last began to throw a gloom over Colonel Aubrey 's pursuits ; and he refused to accept every invitation , rather than leave me to the indulgence of mournful reveries . 
It was a sacrifice of my own feelings , but it was prompted by gratitude ; and being conducive to Colonel Aubrey 's health as well as amusement , I could no longer hesitate in making it . 
On entering the room , the blaze of light , the sound of the music , and the beauty of the women fascinated my attention , and I was incapable of advancing a single step beyond the door , when Colonel Aubrey desired me to follow him . 
I looked like a creature just wakened into life ; bewildered , and overpowered by admiration and wonder ; when Colonel Aubrey whispered , `` Walsingham , follow me , and recollect yourself : you must endeavour to evince a knowledge of the forms of the world , and not betray the childish embarrassment of a mere noviciate , unless you mean to be the butt of ridicule for the evening . '' 
Colonel Aubrey took my arm , and led me to the farthest end of the ball-room , where he presented me to the fair priestess who presided in the temple of enchantment . 
I felt disconcerted when Colonel Aubrey pronounced the name of Lady Emily , and a foolish pride , which I am almost ashamed to acknowledge , whispered the hope that she had entirely forgot me . 
It was as I wished : `` the little negro Walsingham '' had been wholly obliterated from her remembrance ; while Mr. Ainsforth , the friend of Colonel Aubrey , was treated with a marked attention , at once flattering to my vanity , and soothing to my afflictions . 
Truth , after a short struggle , triumphed over pride , and I answered , that `` I remembered her well , at Nice , in the society of Lady Aubrey . '' 
Colonel Aubrey having observed my emotions on entering the ball-room , had returned to his lodgings early in the evening , without apprizing me of his intentions . 
I shrunk from so disgusting an object , and turning towards a beautiful girl , whose face had , at supper , attracted my attention , remarked the absurd manners of her opposite neighbour : but my consternation is not to be described when she answered , `` To be sure she is a curst comical old devil , and yet there is something so dashing in whatever she does , that one can not help liking her . '' 
`` Is she a particular friend of yours ? '' 
I do n't claim the honour of her friendship , '' replied the young adventurer ; `` I want nothing from her but her rouleaus : and she is so d -- d cunning , there is no touching her , even for a poney Half a roulcau , or twenty-five guineas . 
Colonel Aubrey was still sleeping , having passed a restless night . 
I now sent to let Colonel Aubrey know of Sir Sidney 's arrival , and in a few minutes he was with us . 
Colonel Aubrey , availing himself of her absence , began to question Sir Sidney on the propriety of their journey . 
`` Does Lady Aubrey know of this excursion ? '' 
`` She does , and will shortly follow us , '' was the answer . 
`` You must mean to do the one or the other , '' cried Colonel Aubrey , somewhat hastily . 
I thought there was an equivocal meaning in his words , which did not strike Colonel Aubrey ; for he seemed to insinuate that he could not mean to do that which was previously accomplished . 
`` Well , '' continued Colonel Aubrey , `` I shall be sorry to find that you make a fool of the girl , because she is amiable and lovely -- '' `` As an angel ! '' 
Colonel Aubrey mused , with something so unbelieving in his countenance , that I again felt the trembler fear stealing to my heart ; -- when he started from his reverie , exclaiming , `` By Heavens ! 
Colonel Aubrey continued : `` Mr. Ainsforth is the favoured lover of Lady Emily Delvin : I have heard of nothing else in every house that I have entered this morning . 
`` Never fear , Walsingham , '' cried Colonel Aubrey , `` you have yet Miss Hanbury 's affections to console you ; and she is worth a thousand Lady Emily 's . 
Colonel Aubrey replenished his glass , and a silence of some moments followed . 
I had scarcely uttered the words , when Isabella entered the room with my great coat , and Colonel Aubrey 's sword . 
`` said she , laughing : `` this is Walsingham 's summer walking dress -- ! '' 
said Colonel Aubrey , with evident astonishment . 
I therefore thought it both prudent and candid to inform Colonel Aubrey of my appointment with Lord Linbourne ; and also to request that he would be my second . 
`` He shall not stir a step , '' cried Colonel Aubrey , starting from his seat , and taking his hat ; -- `` I will settle the business without either bloodshed or disgrace to Walsingham . 
`` In a cause that would enhance your reputation , I would be your second , knee-deep in blood , `` cried Colonel Aubrey ; `` but I will not suffer knaves and gamblers to avail themselves of those laws , which were only invented by men of honour , for the defence of virtue . '' 
Isabella , bursting into tears , conjured me to be calm : `` Let Colonel Aubrey arrange the business , '' said she ; `` you are too recently initiated in the follies of fashionable life to know their antidotes . 
A rencontre had taken place between Colonel Aubrey and Lord Linbourne , which had left the latter dangerously wounded at Lady Amaranth 's lodgings . 
Colonel Aubrey 's sword had penetrated his right side , and the effusion of blood had totally deprived him of recollection . 
In the adjoining apartment the whole phalanx of folly had assembled : I inquired after Colonel Aubrey ; they knew nothing about him . 
I could bear their unfeeling conduct no longer ; but , rushing out of the room abruptly , hastened home in search of Colonel Aubrey . 
The dilemma in which I had involved so kind , so generous a friend ; the fatal consequences which seemed rapidly approaching , and the precarious state of Colonel Aubrey 's health , united to perplex me . 
This intelligence awoke a thousand new and dreadful apprehensions for the safety of Colonel Aubrey ; and I was not so completely benumbed by the torpidity of a fashionable atmosphere as to rest entirely at ease under the conviction of having endangered the life of a fellow-creature . 
I was completely bewildered ; how to proceed , or what road to take in search of Colonel Aubrey I knew not . 
I flew to Sir Sidney 's lodgings , from whence I dispatched a short note expressive of my fears , and proposing that we should immediately set out by different roads , in search of Colonel Aubrey . 
The uncertainty of Lord Linbourne 's fate , and the solicitude which I felt to know what was become of my generous friend Colonel Aubrey , by turns agitated my brain : but Isabella hung about my heart , and , in the wide circle of accumulating sorrow , still remained the central object of attraction . 
Yet my proud heart would have perished rather than have unburdened its griefs to Lady Aubrey , or have sued for pity from the capricious Isabella . 
The predicament in which I was involved seemed to preclude every hope of adjustment ; Mrs. Woodford , however , assured me , that her house should be my asylum ; and I agreed to keep my retreat wholly private , by concealing myself in the apartments on the second floor , till I could obtain some tidings of Colonel Aubrey and the family of Glenowen . 
On the evening of my return to Mrs. Woodford 's , I wrote letters to Lady Aubrey , to Mr. Hanbury , and to Bath , without mentioning what had passed since my arrival in London , or the place of my abode . 
I requested them to direct their answers to the Mount Coffee-house in Grosvenor-street , and to let me know whether or not Colonel Aubrey had sailed for Gibraltar . 
The sordid heart of Lady Aubrey was the theme of perpetual abhorrence ; and the gallant veteran , who had become my voluntary patron , frequently claimed a tear of enthusiastic admiration : yet the whole group was known to her merely as individuals ; their names , rank , and situation I cautiously concealed . 
We had passed four days in our retreat , when calling at the Mount coffee-house to know if there were any letters for me , I found a note from Colonel Aubrey , informing me that he was in town for a few hours only : that he was to sail for Gibraltar in two days , Lord Linbourne 's death rendering his departure absolutely necessary . 
`` Lord Linbourne has at length paid the forfeit of his indiscretion , '' said Colonel Aubrey , `` and my hand is stained with the life-blood of a fellow-creature ! 
I thanked Colonel Aubrey for his unbounded generosity : yet , conscious that I had been the cause of a rencontre which had terminated so fatally , I felt the keenest anguish mingled with the most lively gratitude . 
The few hours between my interview with Colonel Aubrey and the time appointed for dinner , I resolved to pass in breaking my wish to her , and in sounding her mind respecting my voyage to Gibraltar . 
She met me with smiles of complacency , which rendered the task I had to perform doubly painful ; for the pleasure which I felt in seeing her a degree less melancholy , made me unwilling to snatch the faint gleam of peace from her bosom , and again to whelm her with a new torrent of affliction . 
After various subjects of conversation , I ventured to mention the propensity which I had ever felt for a military life : I told her that it had been my earliest wish , and my long cherished hope , that I should either end my days , or attain some share of distinction , on the field of warfare . 
She sighed , and remained silent ; but her features , by their instantaneous change , gave proof of her bosom 's apprehension . 
while I demand , instead of childish empty adoration , respect , esteem , and gratitude , as the wife of Colonel Aubrey ! '' 
`` Yes , Walsingham , '' cried Amelia : `` Colonel Aubrey was that lover , that generous , brave , neglected lover , to whom my hand was promised . 
If he will pardon an offending suppliant , my whole life shall be devoted to the promotion of his happiness ; -- days , months , and years of duty and esteem ; of faithful friendship , -- undivided attention , and domestic virtue ; -- all , all shall be Colonel Aubrey 's . 
Amelia would have held me ; -- my features were wild and terrible ; -- she shrieked ; -- she clasped me in her trembling arms : -- I tore myself from her ; -- and , like a bewildered maniac , flew towards London , in search of Colonel Aubrey . 
The idea of confinement at so critical a moment , when Amelia was left wholly unprotected , and Colonel Aubrey on the eve of departure , added to the anticipated horrors of a long captivity , and the loss of the opportunity which presented itself , of quitting England for ever , overwhelmed me with affliction . 
I also wrote a few lines , earnestly conjuring her not to see Colonel Aubrey till my emancipation . 
After a violent struggle between impatience and apprehension , I had just resolution to articulate , `` I trust she yet lives ? '' 
Mr. Optic replied , `` She lives ; but in so pitiable a state , that it would be happiness to die ! 
Her agony of mind has nearly deprived her of reason , and she was , just before my arrival at her lodgings , conveyed to her mother 's house completely wretched . 
I had not courage to behold her in such a state of ruin . 
I have too often admired her , in the lustre of her beauty , when health and innocence diffused a smile over her features , to contemplate the desolation of both , and still profess myself the friend of Mr. Ainsforth . '' 
I had scarcely uttered these words , when Colonel Aubrey 's name was announced . 
Colonel Aubrey 's sorrow at beholding me in captivity for some moments prevented his speaking . 
No culprit at the bar of condemnation ever looked more wretchedly self-convicted than I did , at the moment of Colonel Aubrey 's entering the apartment . 
Colonel Aubrey grasped my hand , as he shook it with the most hearty affection . 
cried Colonel Aubrey , shaking my arm , as if to rouse my recollection . 
Colonel Aubrey smiled . 
`` There you are deceived , '' replied Colonel Aubrey . 
`` You must also recollect the circumstance of my borrowing money from Lady Aubrey ? 
The money which I borrowed of Lady Aubrey will now be useless : I have no debts , but such as I can easily discharge ; no expences , but those which a soldier 's pay will more than provide for . 
`` Sir Sidney is not the destined husband of Miss Hanbury , believe me , '' replied Colonel Aubrey ; `` nay more , he never means to bear that title . 
`` Yet have a little patience , '' cried Colonel Aubrey . 
-- Colonel Aubrey caught hold of my arm and detained me . 
cried Colonel Aubrey , changing colour , and alarmed by my frenzied manner . 
Colonel Aubrey reeled back a few paces , and fell . 
I knew not what to do : -- the distress which Colonel Aubrey evidently laboured under , and of which my precipitate conduct had been the original cause , was , with all its poignancy , trifling in comparison with what I at that moment suffered . 
Colonel Aubrey , after a short struggle between resentment and pity , quitted the house . 
As soon as Colonel Aubrey was gone , I wrote a letter to Mrs. Woodford , proposing to make Amelia every honourable recompence in my power , and conjuring her to allow me an interview , in order that we might settle preliminaries for that purpose . 
I had sealed the proposal , and was directing it , when the following laconic note arrived from Colonel Aubrey : `` If the object of my affection has been basely seduced , if her honour has been sacrificed to your artifice , I can yet pardon her deviation from chastity ; I can yet receive the deluded girl to my fond , foolish heart . 
-- Amelia 's sufferings , -- Isabella 's mysterious conduct , -- and Colonel Aubrey 's just displeasure , agonized my mind , and rendered me insensible to all other objects ; till an event , as dangerous as it was common , roused me from the lethargy of sorrow , and , for a short period , diverted my melancholy from its long and deep course of gloomy meditation . 
I did not then conceive , that the man who had evinced such noble , such generous sentiments , was no other than my ill-requited patron -- Colonel Aubrey ! 
-- Every proof which Colonel Aubrey gave of exalted philanthropy , served as an additional scorpion to sting my bosom with the anguish of compunction . 
Yet the destruction of a dissipated mortal -- of one whose life was employed in every species of tolerated fraud -- who existed on the spoils of other men 's credulity -- and practised every vice with the unblushing effrontery of hardened infamy , was of less importance than the eternal wound which I had given to Colonel Aubrey 's repose , by my rash and unprincipled conduct towards Miss Woodford . 
`` I have seen him with Colonel Aubrey , and think your ladyship must be mistaken , '' said the librarian . 
Could I restore Colonel Aubrey 's peace of mind -- Amelia 's reputation -- Lord Linbourne 's life ? 
I had taken a solemn oath never to visit my native mountains during the lifetime of Lady Aubrey , and my disappointment was unutterable . 
Why , old Aubrey is waiting at Bristol to marry little Milly . 
After a short pause , I replied , with a tone of marked indignation -- `` Your commands and Colonel Aubrey 's claims are very distinct indeed ; and I shall as firmly resist the one as I shall hold the other sacred . 
-- the thing is done -- Milly is going to patch up the business with the help of a parson ; and Aubrey is a d -- d fine fellow , and -- so there ends the whole matter handsomely . 
Besides , my little cousin wants rest ; she has been piping all the way down to Bath -- and devilish ill into the bargain . 
Let her alone -- she 'll come about , and all will be right , if you will but be quiet . '' 
The visit which Miss Woodford received from the Duke of Heartwing , roused her torpid spirits to a new exertion ; she had , previous to her confinement , received a letter from Colonel Aubrey , liberally offering her his hand , and promising to bury her indiseretion in eternal oblivion . 
She also received farther intelligence , that Colonel Aubrey was at that port , waiting to sail for Gibraltar ; and that Mr. Ainsforth had departed for Glenowen , to form a matrimonial alliance with Miss Hanbury . 
I conjured her to tranquillize her mind , -- to unfold the determinations of her bosom ; and , if she was still averse to an union with Colonel Aubrey , to bestow on me that hand which would do honour to my family . 
She looked earnestly at me during several minutes . 
The tenderness of expiring passion tempered the stern gaze of indignation , and with a firm impressive tone , she answered -- `` Never , Walsingham ! 
We were interrupted by the arrival of a courier , who came to announce the approach of Mrs. Woodford and Colonel Aubrey . 
Your presence will be but a poor return for Colonel Aubrey 's generous conduct , -- though a certain source of agony to my afflicted parent . 
you will not , a second time , be the destroyer of Colonel Aubrey 's hopes ; -- for , with all my frailties , all my imperfections , he still loves me . '' 
`` Can you be happy with Colonel Aubrey ? '' 
Lord Kencarth now rushed into the room : -- `` Walsingham , '' cried he , `` by all that is fair and honourable , you must instantly be off ; or my pretty coz will , by prozing with you , lose a husband who will patch up the flaws you have made in her reputation . 
I advanced towards the door , and at the moment when I was bound by honour , delicacy , and gratitude , to relinquish her for ever , I first began to feel a wish , which owed its origin to my perverse nature , ever prone to resist where constraint was necessary ; and had there been no such being upon earth as Colonel Aubrey , I should at that moment have proudly claimed the name of husband from the unhappy and neglected Amelia . 
Mrs. Woodford 's arrival with Colonel Aubrey compelled me to quit the room . 
-- You will enhance the obligation by ordering a servant to call me another chair , and to attend me to Lady Aubrey 's . '' 
`` Did you say to Lady Aubrey 's ? '' 
`` By your ingratitude to Colonel Aubrey , and your perfidy to Miss Woodford . '' 
`` Have you any commands to Lady Aubrey ? 
-- She arrived in town only yesterday , and in a few days will return to Glenowen , '' said Miss Hanbury . 
said I. `` By Mrs. Blagden -- Certain I am , that there has been treachery somewhere , '' continued Isabella ; `` for every transaction of your life has been regularly communicated to Lady Aubrey , and by her repeated to my brother . 
Let me intreat that you will accompany me to Lady Aubrey 's . '' 
She talks of Lady Aubrey -- you say she is your property -- and I know she is the mistress of Sir Sidney . 
Return to Lady Aubrey she sha n't -- stay with you she wo n't -- and therefore go with me she must . 
The stern indignation which was pictured in her countenance , convinced me that every attempt to palliate my conduct would prove fruitless ; I therefore consoled myself with the idea that , by accompanying her , I should discover the abode of Lady Aubrey ; and I resolved to wait patiently for some future opportunity , when her mind should be more disposed to hear my extenuation . 
She stopped at a door in Lower Brooke-street , and knocking vehemently , it was presently opened by a servant , whose joy at seeing her was too evident to escape my notice . 
I bowed , and left her ; she entered the house , and I hastened towards Hanover-square to explain the morning 's adventure . 
Mr. Pannel took his leave , and I left my pupil to receive the rest of his morning visitors , while I strolled towards Lady Aubrey 's to inquire after the health of Isabella . 
The sensation which pressed upon my heart was a painful one , and , with more than ordinary agitation , I hastened to Lady Aubrey 's to restore the precious pledge of love to the sordid object of my too tender attachment , and to bid her , and her detested lover , adieu for ever ! 
I knocked at Lady Aubrey 's door , and on giving my name to the servant , he informed me that he had her ladyship 's orders to say , she never should be at home to Mr. Ainsforth . 
`` Has Lady Aubrey feeling enough to shew kindness to any thing ? '' 
But you must return with me , and judge from observation , whether you think either his external graces , or his mental qualities , such as entitle him to Lady Aubrey 's favour . '' 
`` You know where she resides then ? '' 
`` Have you met my mother since her return to town ? '' 
`` I have not met Lady Aubrey , '' was my answer . 
`` Walsingham , '' said she , with a mild and impressive tone , `` you will be surprised when I inform you of the change which is about to take place in Lady Aubrey 's family : -- your aunt , in a few days , will be the wife of Edward Blagden . 
Jealous of Lady Aubrey 's kindness to me , and anxious to promote her nephew 's interest , by a marriage with her too credulous mistress , the secret , which has been held inviolate since the birth of Sir Sidney , can not fail to transpire . 
-- Is he not the child of Lady Aubrey ? 
said I. `` The ill-fated Sidney is the child of Lady Aubrey , '' replied Miss Hanbury . 
`` You distract me with a thousand doubts and apprehensions , '' said I. `` Why should Lady Aubrey 's marriage confirm my cousin 's misery ? 
Does his every hope of happiness depend on her ? '' 
`` I will go instantly , '' said I. `` Indeed , Walsingham , you will act wisely in departing , '' cried Isabella ; -- `` the tyranny of Mrs. Blagden beneath this roof is insupportable ; there is no outrage which she is not capable of planning -- no insult which her malice would not put in practice ; but her hour of rapacity draws near to a conclusion ; for Lady Aubrey 's income , when Sir Sidney comes of age , will be diminished ; -- the sum of six thousand pounds , annually allowed for his board and education , will from that moment cease to be paid ; and his fate or fortune will then excite little interest in either Mrs. Blagden 's mind , or that of his unfeeling mother . '' 
Lady Aubrey 's party was not yet come ; and with watchful impatience I waited for her arrival . 
We had scarcely gone down one dance , when Lady Aubrey , Isabella , and Sir Sidney entered . 
Lady Aubrey had been only a few minutes in the room , when my unlucky form met her eyes . 
-- Her countenance betrayed a mixture of astonishment and indignation , which was evident , not only to my partner , but to every person that stood near us . 
She fixed her stern gaze upon me , and followed me down the dance with persecuting malignity . 
When I came to the lower end of the room , I observed her in close conversation with Isabella , and distinctly heard her say , `` I command you , Miss Hanbury , not to take any notice of the abandoned profligate -- He has sufficiently disgraced his family and connections already . '' 
Queer my sconce , but I must win my bet at all events , and I think I can not act wiser than to take the little Welsh girl off the hands of her dragon , Lady Aubrey : -- so , tutor , do you go and tell her so , while I wait here for her answer , and do n't stay prosing about it , lest I should alter my mind . '' 
Lady Aubrey and Miss Hanbury interrupted the conversation , and I went in search of Lady Arabella , happy to escape from the importunities of my eccentric pupil . 
I now found that the verses which I had left at Lady Aubrey 's had been given by Isabella to Sir Sidney ; and presented , by him , to Lady Arabella . 
So hark ` ye , Miss , let you and I have a little conversation to-morrow morning : I have asked Lady Aubrey 's leave , and the thing will soon be settled . '' 
Lady Aubrey now requested my cousin to find Isabella , and to inform her that she was going . 
My interview with Miss Hanbury , on the preceding day at Lady Aubrey 's , convinced me that her attachment to my cousin was at an end , and that her aversion to me was insuperable . 
A week passed , during which I saw but little of my pupil , and still less of the Aubrey family . 
Lady Aubrey has settled the business , and I mean to marry Isabella to-morrow morning . '' 
On the following morning I found that Lady Aubrey had quitted London , and set out for Glenowen , in order to celebrate her marriage with Edward Blagden . 
Colonel Aubrey and Mrs. Woodford knelt and supported her . 
Mrs. Woodford intreated me to depart : -- Mr. Randolph 's consternation was evident ; and Colonel Aubrey 's countenance evinced such sensations of distress as pierced every fibre in my bosom . 
Colonel Aubrey conveyed Amelia into the vestry , and I permitted Mr. Randolph to guide my steps back to Mr. M'Arthur 's lodgings . 
This question brought on a farther elucidation , and I was informed that Amelia had been just fourteen days the wife of Colonel Aubrey ; that on the following week they purposed sailing for Gibraltar ; -- and that the bride of my friend Mr. M'Arthur , was Lady Kencarth , the amiable mother of my eccentric pupil . 
The noble , the benignant , the generous Aubrey , bearing in his trembling arms the lifeless form of his adored Amelia ! 
Colonel Aubrey conveyed the cold remains of all that he loved in this world of troubles to a small parlour , where he gently reclined them on a sofa ; -- and falling on his knees , with his hands clasped in the agony of sorrow , and his eyes fixed in speechless fondness , remained motionless as a statue , -- gazing on the placid countenance of that celestial shadow , whose meek and injured spirit had flown to happier regions . 
I approached Colonel Aubrey -- his eyes were still bent on the corpse , and all his senses were absorbed by sorrow . 
I found Colonel Aubrey seated near the sofa , with his arms folded , his eyes fixed on the corpse , and his countenance settled into the deepest melancholy . 
Colonel Aubrey remained unmoved , while the paleness of his cheek , and the frequent tears which flowed from the full channels of his heart , convinced me that his ear was deaf to every sound , his senses beyond the touch of every pang except that which destiny had rendered incurable . 
On my arrival , I found a letter which had been sent express from Glenowen ; I flew to my chamber , and eagerly opened it ; the contents were as follows -- `` Lose not a moment , Walsingham , if you wish to see the expiring Lady Aubrey . 
The idea of Lady Aubrey 's death gave rise to a variety of hopes and fears . 
I was ushered into Lady Aubrey 's apartment , where I found her in a state of health at once so dangerous and extraordinary , that my astonishment was not to be concealed . 
Her form was wasting rapidly ; -- her features shrunk , and ghastly ; -- her mental faculties seemed to partake of the debility of her frame , and she scarcely knew me . 
At the period when I beheld Lady Aubrey in this dreadful situation , she had been married ten days ; during six of which , her painful and alarming symptoms of dissolution had hourly augmented . 
I inquired for my new relation , Lady Aubrey 's juvenile husband ; -- and was informed that he had on that evening set out for Abergavenny to fetch a physician . 
I remained near the pillow of Lady Aubrey till the hour arrived when she was to take an opiate , ordered by a village apothecary . 
The apartment which was destined for me , was at a considerable distance from Lady Aubrey 's chamber : I had taken a book from the library more to keep me awake than to amuse me ; and a large wood fire being kindled to air the room , which was spacious and lofty , I threw myself into a chair , determined to pass the remainder of the night in watching . 
I concluded that Lady Aubrey was worse , and was taking my light to visit her chamber , when I heard a loud knock at my door . 
As soon as it was day I hastened to Lady Aubrey 's chamber , first concealing my sword behind the hangings of my bed . 
Lady Aubrey had passed a more quiet night than any preceding one since the commencement of her illness : she had slept serenely ; her countenance appeared more animated ; and , as I approached her bed , she made signs that she knew me . 
There was something so compunctuous in her upraised eyes , so sorrowful in her looks , that all my resentment ceased , and I could have sacrificed my life at that moment to have accelerated her recovery . 
I am sure I have watched her like a galley slave , so I have , and I get no thanks neither ; and since some people thought it necessary to send for those whom Lady Aubrey despises , let them wait upon her . 
Lady Aubrey could not want any body 's assistance while I was with her : for the whole universe can tell what a friend I have been to this family , and what a slave I have toiled like all my lifetime . '' 
`` I shall leave my friendship for Miss Hanbury and Sir Sidney , '' said I ; `` my gratitude to Lady Aubrey for the short period of kindness which cherished my infancy . 
Lady Aubrey suddenly darted her hand towards me , and catching my arm , feebly cried , `` Oh , Walsingham ! 
She hesitated -- her hand trembled -- her voice faultered -- she struggled with the strong emotions of her mind , and she so far overcame them , as to continue her intreaties . 
-- `` You shall not go , '' said she ; `` I have a world of wonders to disclose . 
Mrs. Blagden shook in every joint -- `` Lady Aubrey is delirious ! '' 
said she with a countenance of dissembled sorrow ; `` she knows not what she says . 
you had better leave her . '' 
Colonel Aubrey -- '' She could not proceed . 
The latter shortly after quitted the room -- My cousin , with Isabella , promised to remain incessantly with Lady Aubrey , while I went to the parsonage in search of Mr. Hanbury , with the hope that I should be able to explain those events which , during our separation , had prejudiced him against me . 
I entered the little parlour in which , sleeping on my bed of hay , Lady Aubrey first found me . 
As soon as I entered the manorhouse , I hastened to Lady Aubrey 's apartment ; -- she was sleeping . 
On my return to Lady Aubrey 's room , I found Mrs. Blagden sitting by her pillow . 
Lady Aubrey was awakened by the violence with which the door was closed ; and Sir Sidney conjuring me not to mention Mr. Randolph 's death , left it should overpower his mother , I sat myself down to brood in silence over my increased affliction . 
Lady Aubrey was still sensible ; and , on Mrs. Blagden 's quitting her chamber for a few minutes , she called me to her bedside . 
Lady Aubrey pressed my hand : Mrs. Blagden returned ; and I , after dispatching a second messenger for a physician , retired to my chamber . 
The approaching dissolution of Lady Aubrey did not fail to augment the melancholy prospects which crowded rapidly on my thoughts ; while the mystery , which seemed to involve every part of the family history , placed divination beyond the powers of reason . 
said I. `` Gude troth , an I left it , to arm you against your enemies , '' replied Andrew ; `` and you have mickle want o'sic a weapon , while ye tak up your reesidence in a hoose of Lady Aubrey 's . 
I found that Mrs. Blagden had dismissed him from the service of Lady Aubrey , and that , with such degrading epithets as the pride of a Mac-Gregor could not tamely endure . 
I considered myself in a great measure as accessary to his degradation ; I attributed his being discharged from Lady Aubrey 's service to the visit he had paid me on the preceding night , and the conversation that had taken place respecting Edward Blagden ; while my regret was only to be equalled by the high opinion I entertained of his honesty . 
He was with Lady Aubrey when I entered her chamber , and , by his looks , I perceived that her situation was as dangerous as I had before thought it . 
Isabella , by a whisper from me , continued with Lady Aubrey ; Mrs. Blagden stood sullenly dissatisfied during the physician 's visit ; and the scene of mystery seemed opening to a speedy elucidation . 
I inquired whether Lady Aubrey was in any danger -- he shook his head -- -- `` She may survive it , '' said he with impressive regret ; `` but the chance scarcely amounts to probability ; the symptoms are of an alarming nature -- their origin unquestionably -- poison . '' 
But I think it my duty to apprise you of Lady Aubrey 's state , and of the means by which she is reduced to such imminent danger . 
`` Were you not requested by Mr. Blagden to visit Lady Aubrey ? '' 
The physician remained with Lady Aubrey ; Sir Sidney and Isabella sat up in her chamber , and Mrs. Blagden kept close in her own apartment . 
The silence of the hour -- the idea that Lady Aubrey 's situation was occasioned by a domestic assassin , the worst of murderers -- the story repeated by old Andrew -- and the mystery of Sir Sidney 's birth -- occupied my thoughts , and bewildered them almost to madness . 
The crime of attempting Lady Aubrey 's life seemed to rest between Mrs. Blagden and her nephew , Edward ; which to accuse , or whether to charge both with its enormity , puzzled and perplexed me . 
I stopped at the door of Lady Aubrey 's chamber , and listened : -- and within was as still as death . 
Andrew had been dismissed from Lady Aubrey 's service by Mrs. Blagden , and my bringing him as an evidence in my favour , conveyed an idea that he was an accomplice in the plan to destroy his enemy . 
Send for an officer of justice -- I demand a fair investigation of my conduct ; I also insist that Mrs. Blagden be detained on suspicion of having poisoned Lady Aubrey . '' 
Would you , if it is Lady Aubrey 's destiny to perish , embitter her last moments by the conviction that I am a vile , forsworn , deceitful monster ? '' 
`` Follow your cousin 's counsel , I conjure you , '' said Isabella ; `` whatever you may suspect Mrs. Blagden as capable of committing , I do not think that she is guilty respecting Lady Aubrey . 
The absence of her nephew leaves but too dark an evidence of his criminal intentions . '' 
Mrs. Blagden had dispatched several domestics , in all directions , to alarm the country ; and to report that I had attempted her life , and poisoned Lady Aubrey . 
Mrs. Blagden availed herself of this event ; and , from the window , declared that Lady Aubrey was expiring . 
Sir Sidney was instantly overpowered ; the people rushed into the hall , and , in a few moments , several of the most determined entered Lady Aubrey 's chamber . 
Her death-like countenance , the shrieks and lamentations of Mrs. Blagden , Isabella 's trembling form at the same moment feebly advancing along the gallery , and my horror-stricken features , seemed the incontrovertible evidences of a crime , at which my soul shuddered , while my tongue lost the power of pleading its innocence . 
Upon a strict inquiry it was discovered , that there was not sufficient ground for my commitment to the county gaol ; the mere assertion of Mrs. Blagden could not criminate me , and the fate of Lady Aubrey being yet undecided , I was permitted to return to Glenowen , after Andrew had made oath that her dangerous symptoms commenced previous to my arrival . 
Old Andrew , notwithstanding the affronts offered to the dignity of his family , resolved on returning with me to Glenowen ; on braving the wordy storm of his furious antagonist , and on assisting me in bringing to justice the assassins of Lady Aubrey . 
The physician was still with Lady Aubrey ; she was considerably better . 
The event which had happened to me had been concealed from her knowledge , and Mrs. Blagden had never quitted her own apartment during my absence . 
I again had a private interview with Sir Sidney and Isabella : I conjured them to take such steps as should bring those monsters to punishment who had attempted the destruction of Lady Aubrey . 
His manner seemed to convey an embarrassment wholly abstracted from the present source of inquietude , and the dread of injuring Lady Aubrey predominated over that justice which was due to the enemies who had sought to destroy her . 
I was resolved to await the fate of Lady Aubrey ; to investigate the cause of her illness , and then to quit Glenowen , however painful such a step might be to the feelings of my heart , for ever . 
Orders were given that no person should see him except Lady Aubrey ; and the manor-house was more completely a scene of sorrow than ever . 
I recollected the wild , yet noble eccentricities of his youth -- his liberal conduct towards Colonel Aubrey -- his kind , his unaltered friendship for me -- and his filial virtues , which prompted a mild and graceful forbearance under the rigours of maternal severity . 
Lady Aubrey recovered hourly , while Sir Sidney 's fever increased till the most serious apprehensions filled every bosom except that of Mrs. Blagden . 
The same torpid indifference , the same hardened inhumanity -- the horrible characteristics of a sordid , barbarous mind -- were evinced , as during the recent peril to which Lady Aubrey had been exposed , for motives which yet remained secret and undefinable . 
The physician had positively commanded that no person except Lady Aubrey should be admitted to his patient during the crisis of a fever which hourly augmented , and which presented symptoms of the most dreadful nature . 
Lady Aubrey never quitted the chamber of Sir Sidney , night nor day . 
A sofa was placed near his bed , and her attentions , mingled with agonizing sorrow , were unremitting . 
It was hastily written , and contained only a few lines ; stating , that , in consequence of Colonel Aubrey 's earnest solicitations , Mr. Randolph , in his last moments , had forbore to alter his will , by which he had bequeathed the whole of his property , amounting to forty thousand pounds , `` to be equally divided between Isabella Hanbury and Walsingham Ainsforth . '' 
I will make thy peace with Lady Aubrey , and time will awaken thy enemy to compunction for the injustice of her conduct . '' 
Sir Sidney continued extremely ill : -- Lady Aubrey 's constant attention , united to her anxiety of mind , impeded her recovery ; yet she could not be prevailed on to leave my cousin 's chamber , while by unremitting assiduity and sorrow she evinced a change of sentiment as unaccountable as it was honourable to her feelings . 
When I first saw you at Bath , I was engaged to marry him , who , piqued at my capricious conduct , is now the husband of Lady Aubrey . '' 
`` Mrs. Blagden , Lady Aubrey 's friend -- the mother of the ill-treated , the rejected Edward , '' replied Lady Arabella , with a tone of proud disdain that stung my heart . 
Not an individual seemed satisfied with my choice : Lady Aubrey was more than usually melancholy , and Miss Hanbury frequently quitted the room to conceal her tears . 
Lady Aubrey made her excuses , and remained in my cousin 's chamber . 
In this dreadful and increasing alarm , Lady Aubrey wished to procure a small quantity of laudanum , in hopes , by administering it , to tranquillize his senses . 
She suggested the idea to Miss Hanbury ; it was by her communicated to me , and I hastened to find the phial of that subtle drug , which , in my despair , I had purchased at Bristol . 
It was still in my portmanteau , and I delivered it to Lady Aubrey , who instantly hastened with it to Sir Sidney 's chamber . 
The few drops of laudanum , which Lady Aubrey had ventured to administer , had failed in the desired effect , and the irritation which they produced on the nerves of the sufferer augmented his malady : -- every hope seemed to forsake us . 
Just as day began to break , I heard Lady Aubrey 's voice , and that of Isabella , as they stole across the gallery from one apartment to another . 
Lady Aubrey assured me that he was more tranquil , and had less fever ; she attributed the change to the laudanum which I had given her , and I returned to my chamber with a heart considerably lighter than it was when I left it . 
They entered the boudoir which led to Sir Sidney 's apartment : Lady Aubrey seemed in earnest conversation with Lady Arabella ; they closed the door with cautious timidity , and left me almost petrified with consternation . 
I endeavoured to believe that this visit to the chamber of a man , who was the day before supposed to be dying , was merely the effect of compassion , in order to relieve Lady Aubrey from the fatigue of watching . 
Lady Aubrey will be prevailed upon to suffer an elucidation of events which now seem big with destruction . 
At this moment we were interrupted by Lady Arabella and Lord Kencarth , who came , by Lady Aubrey 's desire , to request that Mr. Hanbury would immediately hasten to the manor-house . 
`` Dish my jasey , parson , '' cried my pupil , `` I thought you were come to Ainsforth 's wedding ; but , quiz my conceit , if I am not afraid it will be poor Aubrey 's burying . 
The dowager is almost frantic ; so , queer my nobility , but you must come and preach her into resignation , while Walsingham settles the preliminaries with Lady Arabella . 
His looks strongly indicated resentment -- my grateful esteem took the alarm which was given to friendship ; while , taking his hat , Mr. Hanbury abruptly quitted the room , and set out , for the manor-house , to obey the summons of Lady Aubrey . 
Isabella continued to attend Lady Aubrey in the boudoir adjoining my cousin 's chamber ; and Mr. Hanbury 's acute distress was visible to every observer . 
I now hastened to Lady Aubrey 's apartment , and found that also empty . 
This absurd conduct will only expose you to insult , and excite the resentment of Lady Aubrey . 
I rushed into the portico , and , without stopping , entered the saloon where Lady Aubrey and Mr. Hanbury were waiting impatiently for my return . 
Lady Aubrey , concluding that I had destroyed Lord Kencarth , sunk powerless on a chair : -- Mr. Hanbury , strongly impressed with horrors , had not resolution to inquire the cause of my disordered looks , and I fell into his arms , which had scarcely strength to support me . 
Before I had time to explain the dreadful event which had taken place , a messenger , out of breath with speed and terror , arrived from the village , demanding instantly to speak with Lady Aubrey . 
She quitted the saloon , faint and trembling . 
In a few moments Lady Aubrey rushed wildly into the saloon -- `` Save ! 
said she , `` and escape , while you have yet time . 
Lady Aubrey continued addressing him : `` The villagers are alarmed , but they know not who has perpetrated this horrible deed . 
Then clasping my hand , she threw herself upon her knees before me . 
said she . 
She hung round me in an agony of tears . 
She kissed my trembling hand , and bathed it with the torrents which flowed from her wild and starting eyes . 
my poor Sidney , '' cried she , `` what , -- what will be thy destiny ? '' 
I tore myself from Lady Aubrey 's grasp ; -- she fell . 
When I came to the scene of blood , I rushed towards the parlour , where I beheld Lady Aubrey kneeling on the floor , like the image of despair . 
By her side on a mattress lay the wretched Judith , in the agonies of death . 
I never was convinced till now ; -- I suspected that you were the person , by Lady Emily Delvin 's letters to Lady Aubrey . 
-- The poison , which was daily administered to Lady Aubrey , was procured by me . 
-- Then , pressing my hand to his bleeding heart , he added -- `` Bear my contrite sigh to Lady Aubrey -- tell her that , in my last moments , I entreated her to remember me with pity . '' 
Lady Aubrey had been compelled to quit the scene of horror , and the only object that met my eyes was the blackening corpse of Judith Blagden . 
The host then assured me that my person was in no danger ; that he had confirmed the suspicions of the country people of Mrs. Blagden and her son 's attempt to poison Lady Aubrey ; that I endeavoured to secure the culprits , in order to consign them to the punishment of the laws ; and that the son perished by his own hands , while the affrighted mother failed in her attempt to escape from the window . 
On entering the manor-house I inquired after Sir Sidney ; and was informed that the female servant who had been left to attend him during Lady Aubrey 's absence , had told Lady Arabella , in my cousin 's hearing , of all that had happened ; -- not without intimating that I was the murderer . 
I then flew to Lady Aubrey 's dressing-room , where I found her busied in reading and arranging various written papers : she was too deeply absorbed in thought to notice my approach . 
There was a kind of stern and steady fortitude in her look and manner , that fixed my attention . 
I had been in the apartment some time , when she perceived me , or rather when she found a moment , abstracted from the deep attention of her thoughts : `` Walsingham , '' said she , with a sigh which seemed to labour at her heart , `` this is a day of dreadful wonders . 
There was an awful sorrow in her tone and gesture , that made my blood almost freeze in every vein . 
-- After a short pause , she continued : -- `` This night , the secret of the cabinet shall be unfolded . 
Her words seemed to collect all my senses , and blend them into that of hearing . 
Lady Aubrey observed my convulsive agitation ; and , after pressing her hand for a moment upon her eyes , to repel the tears that started in defiance of her fortitude , she again addressed me . 
`` I conjure , I entreat you to be calm , '' said she ; `` this is not an hour for the frenzy of impetuous passions : -- exhaust not the sensibility of your heart , in conflicts ; nature will soon arouse your mind , to agonize and try your strength of resolution . 
The fate of Sidney , -- the happiness of Colonel Aubrey , -- your own , -- will depend on the elucidation of this eventful epoch . 
She hesitated a few moments . 
Her bosom seemed to shrink with horror , while her cheek displayed a transient flush of shame . 
`` I request that you will leave me , '' said she . 
`` Farewell , my dear Lady Aubrey . 
I returned the letter to Lady Aubrey , and hastened to my chamber , where I passed the remainder of the day till twilight . 
I found that Mr. Hanbury had been some time with Lady Aubrey . 
An hour after the close of day I received a summons to attend Lady Aubrey in her dressing-room . 
I flew almost with the swiftness of thought , and in a moment presented myself before her . 
At the time of Sir Edward 's making his will Lady Aubrey was pregnant ; he therefore bequeathed to the expected offspring , in case of its being a son , the extensive and rich domains of Glenowen , together with the manor-house , plate , furniture , pictures , and library ; and the sum of sixty thousand pounds , to be paid when the said heir male should arrive at the age of twenty-one ; with the farther sum of six thousand pounds per annum for the expences of the board , education , and travels of the said heir from the age of twelve to seventeen . 
He also bequeathed eight thousand pounds to Walsingham Ainsforth , to be paid on his attaining the age of twenty-one : three hundred pounds per annum to be paid by Lady Aubrey for the education of the said Walsingham Ainsforth , from the age of nine years to that of seventeen . 
To Judith Blagden ; in consideration of her services to Sir Edward 's deceased mother , and her attachment to Frances Lady Aubrey , the sum of three thousand pounds : but , in case of the death of Walsingham Ainsforth , a farther sum of two thousand pounds , to be paid within one month after his decease . 
In case the offspring of Lady Aubrey should be a female , the estate of Glenowen and all the appurtenances thereunto belonging , devolving on Sir Edward 's brother Colonel Aubrey , he bequeathed the sum of thirty thousand pounds to the said daughter , to be paid on her attaining her eighteenth year , with three hundred pounds annually for board and education . 
The remainder , deducting Lady Aubrey 's marriage-settlement of twelve hundred pounds per annum , to go with the estate to Colonel Aubrey and his heirs for ever . 
Mr. Hanbury folded the paper : his hand trembled , and the paleness of death stole over Lady Aubrey 's features . 
`` Now , Walsingham , '' said she , `` prepare to hear the fatal secret of my soul ; prepare to execrate a wretch , whose life has been devoted to avarice and deception . '' 
The agitation which shook her frame , made her tongue faulter -- she paused . 
She struggled with the anguish of her mind , and with a desperate resolution exclaimed -- `` Hear , hear it then , Walsingham , and let the agonizing confession touch your heart to pity -- I have no son ! 
`` Yes , Walsingham , '' continued Lady Aubrey , `` that persecuted angel , whose romantic , whose invincible attachment to you has involved her in so many sorrows , is my daughter -- the daughter of Sir Edward Aubrey . '' 
Bound by a solemn oath , before she quitted Switzerland , your amiable cousin engaged herself never to declare her sex during the lifetime of Lady Aubrey , without her free permission . 
The origin of her disguise was Mrs. Blagden 's avarice , and her hatred of you as the son of her detested rival . 
The amiable Sidney has been educated in masculine habits ; but every affection of her heart is beautifully feminine ; heroic though tender ; and constant , though almost hopeless . 
She will , nevertheless , demand some time to fashion her manners to the graces of her sex . 
For your sake , Walsingham , she has endured many months of perpetual inquietude ; her machinations to prevent your forming a matrimonial alliance were prompted by that passion which subdued the voice of reason , and , the fastidious will say , violated the laws of strict propriety . 
Yet , let it be remembered , that her virtues , her sensibility , were her own ; -- her crime , if the concealment of her sex can be considered criminal , was Lady Aubrey 's . '' 
My aunt now ventured a few words as a feeble extenuation of her conduct . 
After many years had passed , the dread of Colonel Aubrey 's just resentment confirmed the fatal fraud ; and nothing but the death of my detested tyrant could have unveiled the mystery , or restored to happiness the suffering , devoted Sidney . '' 
Colonel Aubrey is now lord of Glenowen . 
-- Your aunt and the amiable Sidney , if it should please Heaven to restore her , will return to Switzerland -- time will , I trust , reconcile them to Colonel Aubrey . '' 
`` Is there an act of kindness or generosity which may not be expected from Colonel Aubrey ? '' 
He knows how strongly she was interested in his favour -- How often her heart has been agonized by the fatal secret ! 
He has heard the innocent , the indignant child pleading at the feet of her misguided mother -- pleading for him -- for me -- for the rectitude of her bosom -- the virtues and the wrongs of her neglected uncle . '' 
Lady Aubrey hid her face on Mr. Hanbury 's arm , and shuddered . 
I conjure you to spare me , '' said she ; `` I am already tortured by compunction -- Do not suppress the energies of awakened truth , by the anguish of despair . 
As she spoke , Lady Arabella rushed into the room ; her countenance evinced the horrors of her mind , while she scarcely , articulated -- `` Oh , Lady Aubrey ! 
`` Colonel Aubrey , soon after my departure from Glenowen , surrendered himself on the charge of Lord Linbourne 's death , and was acquitted by the laws of equity and honour . 
He has sanctioned my alliance with the amiable Sidney : -- he has received with open arms the offending Lady Aubrey , -- and he has blest her children with the affection of a father . 
The fortune which Mrs. Blagden left , has , by Colonel Aubrey 's commands , been distributed among her indigent relations . 
