So `` Hester '' was the name given to the child , in whose veins the blood of English noblemen was flowing ; and when the ceremony was ended , Hagar bore back to her room `` Hester Hamilton , '' the child defrauded of her birthright , and `` Maggie Miller , '' the heroine of our story . 
At first , Mrs. Miller objected to trusting her with the babe ; but when Madam Conway suggested that the woman who had charge of little Theo should also take care of Maggie , she fell upon her knees and begged most piteously that the child might not be taken from her . 
Every thing I have ever loved has left me , '' said she , `` and I can not give her up . '' 
But I 'll hideit closer than it 's hidden now , '' she continued , `` If you 'll let her stay ; and ` fore Heaven , I swear , that sooner than harm one hair of Maggie 's head , I 'd part with my own life ; '' and taking the sleeping child in her arms , she stood like a wild beast at bay . 
Very tenderly old Hagar nursed her , carrying her often in her arms , until they ached from very weariness , while Madam Conway , who watched her with a vigilant eye , complained that she neglected little Maggie . 
And she glanced compassionately at the poor wasted form , which lay upon her lap , gasping for breath , and presenting a striking contrast to the little Maggie , who , in her cradle , was crowing and laughing in childish glee , at the bright firelight which blazed upon the hearth . 
Maggie was indeed a beautiful child . 
From her mother she had inherited the boon of perfect health , and she throve well in spite of the bumped heads and pinched fingers , which frequently fell to her lot , when Hagar was too busy with the feeble child to notice her . 
The plaything of the whole house , she was greatly petted by the servants , who vied with each other in tracing points of resemblance between her and the Conways ; while the grandmother prided herself particularly on the arched eyebrows , and finely cut upper lip , which , she said , were sure marks of high blood , and never found in the lower ranks ! 
With a most scornful expression on her face , old Hagar would listen to these remarks , and then , when sure that no one heard her , she would mutter , `` Marks of blood!What nonsense ! 
Hester 's blue pinched nose , which makes one think of fits , would be the very essence of aristocracy , while Maggie 's lipwould come of the little Paddyblood there is running in her veins ! '' 
`` And still , Madam Conway herself was not one half so proud of the bright , playful Maggie , as was old Hagar , who , when they were alone , would hug her to her bosom , and gaze fondly on her fair , round face , and locks of silken hair so like those now resting in the grave . 
In the meantime Mrs. Miller , who , since her daughter 's birth , had never left her room , was growing daily weaker , and when Maggie was nearly nine months old , she died , with the little one folded to her bosom , just as Hester Hamilton had held it , when , she , too , passed from earth . 
`` Doubly blessed , '' whispered old Hagar , who was present , and then when she remembered that to poor little Hester a mother 's blessing would never be given , she felt that her load of guilt was greater than she could bear . 
`` She will perhaps forgive me if I confess it to her over Miss Margaret 's coffin , '' she thought ; and once when they stood together by the sleeping dead , and Madam Conway , with Maggie in her arms was bidding the child kiss the clay cold lips of its mother , old Hagar attempted to tell her . 
`` Could you bear Miss Margaret 's death as well , '' she said , `` if Maggie , instead of being bright and playful as she is , were weak and sick , like Hester ? '' 
`` Say , would you bear it as well -- could you love her as much -- would you change with me , take Hester for your own , and give me little Maggie ? '' 
`` She would not thank me for telling her . 
But somebody 'll introduce you , somebody 'll tell her who you are , and when she knows how proud her mother is of Maggie , she 'll forgive old Hagar Warren ! '' 
was the report carried by the servants to their mistress , who believed the story , when Hagar herself came to her with the request that Hester might be buried in some of Maggie 's clothes . 
Touched with pity by her worn , haggard face , Madam Conway answered ; `` yes , take some of her common ones , '' and choosing the cambric robe which Hester had worn on the morning when the exchange was made , Hagar dressed the body for the grave . 
I am considerably comforted , '' was the cool reply of Hagar , who felt how cruel were the words , and who for a moment was strongly tempted to claim the beautiful Maggie as her own , and give back to the cold , proud woman the senseless clay , on which she looked so calmly . 
But love for her grandchild conquered . 
There was nothing in the way of her advancement now , and when at the grave she knelt her down to weep , as the bystanders thought , over her dead , she was breathing there a vow that never so long as she lived should the secret of Maggie 's birth be given to the world , unless some circumstance then unforeseen should make it absolutely and unavoidably necessary . 
To see Maggie grow up into a beautiful , refined and cultivated woman , was now the great object of Hagar 's life ; and fearing lest by some inadvertent word or action the secret should be disclosed , she wished to live by herself , where naught but the winds of heaven could listen to her incoherent whisperings , which made her fellow servants accuse her of insanity . 
To one like Hagar , however , there was nothing intimidating in its creaking old floors , its rattling windows and noisome chimney , where the bats and the swallows built their nests ; and when , one day , Madam Conway proposed giving little Maggie into the charge of a younger and less nervous person than herself , she made no objection , but surprised her mistress by asking permission to live by herself in the `` cottage by the mine '' as it was called . 
`` It is better for me to be alone , '' said she , `` for I may do something terrible if I stay here , something I would sooner diethan do , '' and her eyes fell upon Maggie sleeping in her cradle . 
For several weeks , when she came , as she did each day to the house , Madam Conway kept Maggie carefully from her sight , until at last she begged so hard to see her , that her wish was gratified ; and as she manifested no disposition whatever to molest the child , Madam Conway 's fears gradually subsided , and Hagar was permitted to fondle and caress her as often as she chose . 
Here , now , for a time , we leave them ; Hagar in her cottage by the mine ; Madam Conway in her gloomy home ; Maggie in her nurse 's arms ; and Theo , of whom as yet but little has been said , playing on the nursery floor ; while with our readers we pass silently over a period of time which shall bring us to Maggie 's girlhood . 
Wondrously beautiful is Maggie Miller now , with her bright sunny face , her soft , dark eyes and raven hair , so glossy and smooth , that her sister , the pale faced , blue-eyed Theo , likens it to a piece of shining satin . 
Now , as ever , the pet and darling of the household , she moves among them like a ray of sunshine ; and the servants , when they hear her bird-like voice waking the echoes of the weird old place , pause in their work to listen , blessing Miss Margaret for the joy and gladness her presence has brought to them . 
And Maggie , listening to the voices which speak to her so oft in the autumn wind , the running brook , the opening flower and the falling leaf , has learned a lesson different far from those taught her daily by the prim , stiff governess , who , imported from England six years ago , has drilled both Theo and Maggie , in all the prescribed rules of high-life as practised in the old world . 
She has taught them how to sitand how to stand , how to eatand how to drink , as became young ladies of Conwayblood and birth . 
And Madam Conway , through her golden spectacles , looks each day to see some good , from all this teaching , come to the bold , dashing , untamable Maggie , who , spurning alike both birthand blood , laughs at form and etiquette as taught by Mrs. Jeffrey , and winding her arms around her grandmother 's neck , crumples her rich lace ruffle with a most unladylike hug , and then bounds away to the stables , pretending not to hear the distressed Mrs. Jeffrey calling after her `` not to run , 't was so Yankeefied and vulgar ; '' or if she did hear , answering back , `` I am a Yankee , native born , and shall run for all Johnny Bull . '' 
Greatly horrified at this evidence of total depravity , Mrs. Jeffrey brushes down her black silk apron and goes back to Theo , her more tractable pupil ; while Maggie , emerging ere long from the stable , clears the fence with one leap of her high-mettled pony , which John , the coachman , had bought at an enormous price , of a travelling circus , on purpose for his young mistress , who complained that `` grandma 's horses were all too lazy and aristocratic in their movements for her . '' 
Not thus easily could Madam Conway manage Maggie , and with a groan she saw her each day fly over the garden gate , and out into the woods , which she scoured in all directions . 
`` She 'll break her neck , I know , '' the disturbed old lady would say , as Maggie 's flowing skirt and waving plumes disappeared in the shadow of the trees . 
`` She 'll break her neck some day ; '' and thinking some one must be in fault , her eyes would turn reprovingly upon Mrs. Jeffrey for having failed in subduing Maggie , whom the old governess pronounced the `` veriest mad-cap in the world ; there was nothing like her in all England , '' she said , `` and her low-bred ways must be the result of her having been born on American soil . '' 
If Maggie was to be censured , Madam Conway chose to do it herself , and on such occasions she would answer , `` Low-bred , Mrs. Jeffrey , is not a proper term to apply to Margaret . 
Throwing herself upon a stool at her grandmother 's feet , Maggie would lay her head upon the lap of the proud lady , who , very lovingly would smooth the soft shining hair , `` so much like her own , '' she said . 
the mischievous Maggie would rejoin , looking up archly to her grandmother , who would call her a saucy child , and stroke still more fondly the silken locks . 
Wholly unlike Maggie was Theo , a pale-faced , fair-haired girl , who was called pretty , when not overshadowed by the queenly presence of her more gifted sister . 
And Theo was very proud of this sister , too ; proud of the beautiful Maggie , to whom , though two years her junior , she looked for counsel , willing always to abide by her judgment ; for what Maggie did must of course be right , and grandma would not scold . 
So if at any time Theo was led into error , Maggie stood ready to bear the blame , which was never very severe , for Mrs. Jeffrey had learned not to censure her too much , lest by so doing she should incur the displeasure of her employer , who in turn loved Maggie , if it were possible , better than the daughter whose name she bore , and whom Maggie called her mother . 
This was Maggie 's favorite resort , and here she often sat in the moonlight , musing of one who slept there , and who , they said , had held her on her bosom when she died . 
At no great distance from this spot , was another grave , where the grass grew tall and green , and where the headstone , half sunken in the earth , betokened that she who rested there was of humble origin . 
Here Maggie seldom tarried long . 
The place had no attraction for her , for rarely now was the name of Hester Hamilton heard at the old stone house , and all , save one , seemed to have forgotten that such as she had ever lived . 
This was Hagar Warren , who in her cottage by the mine has grown older , and more crazy-like since last we saw her . 
Her hair , once so much like that which Madame Conway likens to her own , has bleached as white as snow , and her tall form is shrivelled now , and bent . 
The secretis wearing her life away , and yet she does not regret what she has done . 
She can not , when she looks upon the beautiful girl , who comes each day to her lonely hut , and whom she worships with a species of wild idolatry . 
Maggie knows not why it is , and yet to her there is a peculiar fascination about that strange old woman , with her snow-white hair , her wrinkled face , her bony hand , and wild , dark eyes , which , when they rest on her , have in them a look of unutterable tenderness . 
Regularly each day when the sun nears the western horizon , Maggie steals away to the cottage , and the lonely woman , waiting for her on the rude bench by the door , can tell her bounding footstep from all others which pass that way . 
She does not say much now , herself ; but the sound of Maggie 's voice , talking to her in the gathering twilight , is the sweetest she has ever heard , and so she sits and listens , while her hands work nervously together , and her whole body trembles with the longing , intense desire she feels , to clasp the young girl to her bosom , and claim her as her own . 
But this she dare not do , for Madame Conway 's training has had its effect , and in Maggie 's bearing there is ever a degree of pride which forbids anything like undue familiarity . 
Sometimes a wordor a look , would make her start , they reminded her so forcibly of the dead ; and once she said involuntarily . 
`` You are like your mother , Maggie . 
Exactly what she was at your age . '' 
answered Maggie . 
You never talked to me of her . 
Tell me of her now , I did not suppose I was like her , in anything . '' 
interrupted Maggie . 
`` Of course I should , '' answered Maggie , her large eyes opening wide at the strange question . 
`` I would n't for the whole world be anybody but Maggie Miller , just who I am . 
`` I 'll never tell her , never , '' muttered Hagar ; and Maggie continued : `` What a queer habit you have of talking to yourself . 
It came upon me with the secret , '' Hagar answered inadvertently ; and eagerly catching at the last word , which to her implied a world of romance and mystery , Maggie exclaimed , `` The secret , Hagar , the secret!If there 's anything I delight in , it 's a secret ! '' 
and sliding down from the rude bench to the grass plat at Hagar 's feet , she continued : Tell it to me , Hagar , that 's a dear old woman . 
and Maggie folded her arms upon the lap of the old woman , who answered in a voice so hoarse and unnatural that Maggie involuntarily shuddered , `` Old Hagar would die inch by inch sooner than tell you , Maggie Miller , her secret . '' 
asked , Maggie half fearfully , and casting a stealthy glance at the dim woods , where the night shadows were falling , and whose winding path she must traverse alone , on her homeward route . 
`` Yes , dreadful , dreadful ; and yet , Maggie , I have sometimes wished you knew it . 
You would forgive me , perhaps , if you knew how I was tempted , '' said Hagar , and her voice was full of yearning tenderness , while her bony fingers parted lovingly the shining hair from off the white brow of the young girl , who plead again , `` Tell it to me , Hagar . '' 
`` Leave me , Maggie Miller , I can not tell youthe secret . 
There was command in the tones of her voice , and rising to her feet , Maggie walked away , with a dread feeling at her heart , a feeling which whispered vaguely to her of a deed of blood ; for what , save this , could thus affect old Hagar ? 
-- Her road home led near the little burying-ground , and impelled by something she could not resist , she paused at her mother 's grave . 
The moonlight was falling softly upon it , and seating herself within the shadow of the monument , she sat a long time , thinking , not of the dead , but of Hagar and the strange words she had uttered . 
Suddenly , from the opposite side of the graveyard , there came a sound as of some one walking , and looking up , Maggie saw approaching her the bent figure of the old woman , who seemed unusually excited . 
Her first impulse was to fly , but knowing how improbable it was that Hagar should seek to do her harm , and thinking she might discover some clue to the mystery , if she remained , she sat still , while kneeling on Hester 's grave , old Hagar wept bitterly , talking the while , but so incoherently that Maggie could distinguish nothing , save the words , `` You , Hester , have forgiven me . '' 
`` Can it be that she has killed her own child ! '' 
thought Mag , and starting to her feet she stood face to face with Hagar , who screamed , `` Youhere , Maggie Miller ! 
Did Hester Hamilton die at her mother 's hands ? '' 
With a short gasping moan , Hagar staggered backward a pace or two , and then standing far more erect than Margaret had ever seen her before , she answered , `` No , Maggie Miller , no ; murderis notmy secret . 
Maggie obeyed , and walked slowly homeward , feeling greatly relieved that her suspicion was false , and experiencing a degree of satisfaction in thinking that she , too , had a secret , which she would guard most carefully from her grandmother and Theo . 
`` She would never tell them what she had seen and heard -- never ! '' 
With a very expressive look , which seemed to say , `` I know , but I sha n't tell , '' Maggie seated herself at her grandmother 's feet , and asked , `` how long Hagar had been crazy ? 
Did it come upon her when her daughter died ? '' 
she inquired ; and Madam Conway answered , `` yes , about that time , or more particularly when the baby died . 
Then she began to act so strangely that I removed you from her care , for , from something she said , I fancied she mediated harm to you . '' 
For a moment Maggie sat wrapt in thought -- then clapping her hands together , she exclaimed -- `` I have it ; I know now what ails her . 
She felt so badly to see you happy with me , that she tried to poison me.She said she was sorely tempted -- and that 's the secret which is killing her . '' 
cried Theo ; and womanlike , forgetting her resolution not to tell , Mag told what she had seen and heard , adding as her firm belief that Hagar had made an attempt upon her life . 
`` I would advise you for the future to keep away from her , then , '' said Madam Conway , to whom the suggestion seemed a very probable one . 
But Maggie knew full well that whatever Hagar might once have thought to do , there was no danger to be apprehended from her now , and the next day found her as usual on her way to the cottage . 
There was a heavy load lifted from Hagar 's heart , and she answered calmly , but somewhat indignantly , `` So you told -- I thought I could trust you , Maggie . '' 
Instantly the tears came to Maggie 's eyes , and , coloring crimson , she said : `` I did n't mean to tell -- indeed I did n't , but I forgot all about your charge . 
Forgive me , Hagar , do , '' and , sinking on the floor , she looked up in Hagar 's face so pleadingly that the old woman was softened , and answered gently , `` You are like the rest of your sex , Margaret . 
`` Maggie Miller , '' said old Hagar , and the knitting dropped from her fingers , which moved slowly on till they reached and touched the little snow-flake of a hand , resting on her knee ; `` Maggie Miller , if you knew that the telling of that secret would make you perfectly wretched , would you wish to hear it ? '' 
Very beautiful looked Maggie Miller then . 
Her straw flat sat jauntily on one side of her head , her glossy hair combed smoothly back , her soft lustrous eyes shining with eager curiosity , and her cheeks flushed with excitement . 
Very , very beautiful she seemed to the old woman , who , in her intense longing to take the bright creature to her bosom , was , for an instant sorely tempted . 
she began , and at the sound of her voice the young girl shuddered involuntarily . 
she said again , but ere another word was uttered , the autumn wind , which for the last half hour had been rising rapidly , came roaring down the wide-mouthed chimney , and the heavy fireboard fell upon the floor with a tremendous crash , nearly crushing old Hagar 's foot , and driving for a time all thoughts of the secret from Maggie 's mind . 
`` Served me right , '' muttered Hagar , as Maggie left the room for water with which to bathe the swollen foot . 
Maggie 's own hands tenderly bandaging it up , and then with redoubled zeal she returned to the attack , pressing old Hagar so hard that the large drops of perspiration gathered thickly about her forehead and lips , which were white as ashes . 
Wearied at last , Mag gave it up for the time being , but her curiosity was thoroughly aroused , and for many days she persisted in her importunity , until at last , in self defence , old Hagar , when she saw her coming , would steal away to the low roofed chamber , and hiding behind a pile of rubbish , would listen breathlessly , while Margaret hunted for her in vain . 
This , however , Maggie Miller did not know . 
Blessed with an uncommon degree of curiosity , which increased each time she saw old Hagar , she resolved to solve the mystery , which she felt sure was connected with herself , though in what manner , she could not guess . 
`` But I willknow , '' she would say to herself , when returning from a fruitless quizzing of old Hagar , whose hiding-place she had at last discovered ; `` I willknow what 't is about me . 
Ah , Maggie , Maggie , be happy while you can , and leave the secret alone . 
ejaculated old Hagar , who , much as she loved Maggie , was beginning to dread her daily visits . '' 
asked Maggie , laughingly . 
`` Like-you , Maggie Miller ! 
like you , '' repeated old Hagar , and in the tones of her voice there was a world of tenderness and love . 
I wish she was n't so proud , '' she continued , after a moment . 
and Maggie pouted quite becomingly at the injustice done her by her grandmother in keeping her thus secluded . 
`` Theo do n't care , '' she said . 
asked Hagar , who in a measure sympathized with Maggie for being thus isolated . 
I daresay the queen will be astonished at our qualifications ; '' and with a merry laugh , as she thought of the appearance she should make at the Court of St. James , Mag leaped on Gritty 's back and bounded away , while Hagar looked wistfully after her , saying as she wiped the tears from her eyes , `` Heaven bless the girl ! 
As Maggie had said , Madam Conway was going to England . 
repeated Maggie , when her tears were dried , and she with Theo was driving slowly home . 
she continued . 
`` Not with anybody here , '' answered Theo , her nose slightly elevated at the thoughts of people whom she had been educated to despise . 
asked Maggie . 
I think it 's a shame though , '' she continued , `` that we do n't know anybody , either male or female . 
On most subjects , Theo 's memory was treacherous , but she remembered perfectly well the two young men , particularly the taller one , who had given her a remnant of blue ribbon , which he said was just the color of her eyes . 
Still , the idea of going to Worcester did not strike her favorably . 
`` She wished Worcester would come to them , '' she said , `` but she should not dare to go there . 
`` A fig for Mrs. Jeffrey , '' said Maggie . 
Arrived at home they found dinner awaiting them , and Maggie , when seated , suggested to Mrs. Jeffrey that she should give them a vacation of a few weeks , just long enough for them to get rested and visit the neighbors . 
There was a wicked look in Maggie 's eyes , but her tongue told no tales , and when next morning she went with Theo , demurely to the school-room , she seemed surprised at hearing from Mrs. Jeffrey that every book had disappeared from the desk , where they were usually kept ; and though the greatly disturbed and astonished lady had sought for them nearly an hour , they were not to be found . 
`` Maggie has hidden them , I know , '' said Theo , as she saw the mischievous look on her sister 's face . 
But Maggie had hidden them , and no amount of coaxing could persuade her to bring them back . 
`` You refused me a vacation when I asked for it , '' she said , `` so I 'm going to have it perforce ; '' and playfully catching up the little dumpy figure of her governess , she carried her out upon the piazza , and seating her in a large easy-chair , bade her `` take snuff and comfort , too , as long as she liked . '' 
Mrs. Jeffrey knew perfectly well that Maggie in reality was mistress of the house , that whatever she did Madam Conway would ultimately sanction ; and as a rest was by no means disagreeable , she yielded with a good grace , dividing her time between sleeping , snuffing and dressing , while Theo lounged upon the sofa and devoured some musty old novels , which Maggie , in her rummaging , had discovered . 
Meanwhile Maggie kept her promise of visiting the neighbors , and almost every family had something to say in praise of the merry light-hearted girl , of whom they had heretofore known but little . 
Her favorite recreation , however , was riding on horseback , and almost every day she galloped through the woods and over the fields , usually terminating her ride with a call upon old Hagar , whom she still continued to tease unmercifully for the secret , and who was glad when at last an incident occurred which for a time drove all thoughts of the secret from Maggie 's mind . 
Oneafternoon towards the middle of April , when Maggie as usual was flying through the woods , she paused for a moment beneath the shadow of a sycamore , while Gritty drank from a small running brook . 
The pony having quenched his thirst , she gathered up her reins for a fresh gallop , when her ear caught the sound of another horse 's hoofs ; and looking back , she saw approaching her at a rapid rate a gentleman whom she knew to be a stranger . 
Not caring to be overtaken , she chirruped to the spirited Gritty , who , bounding over the velvety turf , left the unknown rider far in the rear . 
thought the young man , admiring the utter fearlessness with which she rode ; then , feeling a little piqued , as he saw how the distance between them was increasing , he exclaimed , `` be she woman , or be she witch , I 'll overtake her , '' and whistling to his own fleet animal , he , too , dashed on at a furious rate . 
thought Maggie . 
`` I 'd laugh to see you do it , '' and entering at once into the spirit of the race , she rode on for a time with headlong speed -- then , by way of tantalizing her pursuer , she paused for a moment until he had almost reached her , when at a peculiar whistle Gritty sprang forward , while Maggie 's mocking laugh was borne back to the discomfited young man , whose interest in the daring girl increased each moment . 
But Maggie had not yet half displayed her daring feats of horsemanship , and when he came so near that his waving brown locks and handsome dark eyes were plainly discernible , she said to herself , `` he rides tolerably well . 
I 'll see how good he is at a leap , '' and , setting herself more firmly in the saddle , she patted Gritty upon the neck . 
The well trained animal understood the signal , and rearing high in the air , was fast nearing the bank , when the young man , suspecting her design , shrieked out , `` Stop , lady , stop ! 
`` Follow me if you can , '' was Maggie 's defiant answer , and the next moment she hung in mid air over the dark abyss . 
But Maggie knew full well what she was doing . 
She had leaped that narrow gorge often , and now when the stranger 's eyes unclosed , she stood upon the opposite bank , caressing the noble animal which had borne her safely there . 
and burying his spurs deep in the sides of his horse , he pressed on while Maggie held her breath in fear , for she knew that without practice no one could do what she had done . 
There was a partially downward plunge -- a fierce struggle on the shelving bank , where the animal had struck a few feet from the top , -- then the steed stood panting on terra firma , while a piercing shriek broke the deep silence of the wood , and Maggie 's cheeks blanched to a marble hue . 
cried Maggie . 
`` 'T was my own foolishness which killed him , '' and springing from Gritty 's back she gathered up her long riding skirt , and glided swiftly down the bank , until she came to a wide , projecting rock , where the stranger lay , motionless and still , his white face upturned to the sunlight , which came stealing down through the overhanging boughs . 
In an instant she was at his side , and his head was restng on her lap , while her trembling fingers parted back from his pale brow the damp mass of curling hair . 
`` The fall alone would not kill him , '' she said , as her eye measured the distance , and then she looked anxiously round for water , with which to bathe his face . 
But water there was none , save in the stream below , whose murmuring flow fell mockingly on her ears , for it seemed to say she could not reach it . 
But Maggie Miller was equal to any emergency , and venturing out to the very edge of the rock , she poised herself on one foot , and looked down the dizzy height , to see if it were possible to descend . 
`` I can try at least , '' she said , and glancing at the pale face of the stranger , unhesitatingly resolved to attempt it . 
The descent was less difficult than she had anticipated , and in an incredibly short space of time , she was dipping her tasteful velvet cap in the brook , whose sparkling foam had never before been disturbed by the touch of a hand as soft and fair as hers . 
To ascend was not so easy a matter ; but chamois-like , Maggie 's feet trod safely the dangerous path , and she soon knelt by the unconscious man , bathing his forehead in the clear cold water , until he showed signs of returning life . 
His lips moved slowly , at last , as if he would speak ; and Maggie , bending low to catch the faintest sound , heard him utter the name of `` Rose . '' 
In Maggie 's bosom , there was no feeling for the stranger , save that of pity , and yet , that one word `` Rose , '' thrilled her with a strange undefinable emotion , awaking at once a yearing desire to know something of her who bore that beautiful name , and who , to the young man , was undoubtedly the one in all the world most dear . 
and his eyes , which opened slowly , scanned with an eager , questioning look , the face of Maggie , who , open-hearted and impulsive as usual , answered somewhat sadly : `` I am nobody but Maggie Miller . 
I am not Rose , though I wish I was , if you would like to see her . 
The tones of her voice recalled the stranger 's wandering mind , and he answered : `` Your voice is like Rose , but I would rather see you , Maggie Miller . 
Rose is far more gentle , more feminine than you , and if her very life depended upon it , she would never dare leap that gorge . '' 
The young man intended no reproof ; but Maggie took his words as such , and for the first time in her life , began to think that possibly her manner was not always as womanly as might be . 
At all events she was not like the gentle Rose , whom she instantly invested with every possible grace and beauty , wishing that she herself was like her , instead of the wild mad-cap she was . 
Then thinking her conduct required some apology , she answered , as none save one as fresh and ingenuous as Maggie Miller would have answered , `` I do n't know any better than to behave as I do . 
This was entirely a new phase of character to the man of the world , who laughed aloud , and at the mention of Douglas ` sstore , started so quickly , that a spasm of pain distorted his features , causing Maggie to ask if he were badly hurt . 
`` Nothing but a broken leg , '' he answered ; and Maggie to whose mind broken bones conveyed a world of pain and suffering , replied . 
and her little chubby hands clasped his so pleadingly , that raising himself upon his elbow , so as to obtain a better view of her bright face , he answered ; `` I 'd willingly break a hundred bones for the sake of meeting a girl like you , Maggie Miller . '' 
Maggie was unused to flattery , save as it came from her grandmother , Theo , or old Hagar , and now paying no heed to his remark , she said , `` Can you stay here alone , while I go for help ? 
`` I sha n't be gone long , '' said Maggie , `` and I 'll send old Hagar to keep you company ; '' so saying , she climbed the bank , and mounting Gritty , who stood quietly awaiting her , she seized the other horse by the bridle , and rode swiftly away , leaving the young man to meditate upon the novel situation in which he had so suddenly been placed . 
`` She 's here , '' answered a shrill voice , and looking up , he saw before him the bent form of Hagar Warren , at whose door Maggie had paused for a moment , while she told of the accident , and begged of Hagar to hasten . 
Accordingly , equipped with a blanket and pillow , a brandy bottle and the camphor , old Hagar had come , but when she offered the latter for the young man 's acceptance , he pushed it from him , saying , `` Camphor was his detestation , but he should n't object particularly to smelling of the other bottle ! '' 
`` No you do n't , '' said Hagar , who thought him in not quite so deplorable a condition as she had expected to find him . 
`` My creed is never to give young folks brandy , except in cases of emergency ; so saying she made him more comfortable by placing a pillow beneath his head , and then thinking possibly , that this , to herself , was `` a case of emergency , '' she withdrew to a little distance , and sitting down upon the gnarled roots of an upturned tree , drank a swallow of the old Cognac , while the young man , maimed and disabled , looked wistfully at her ! 
There were intervals , however , when he was comparatively free from pain , and these he improved by questioning her with regard to Maggie , asking who she was , and where she lived . 
`` She is Maggie Miller , and she lives in a house , '' answered the old woman , rather pettishly . 
`` I know her name is Maggie Miller , and I supposed she lived in a house ; but who is she , any way , and what is she ? '' 
`` If you mean is she anybody , I can answer that question quick , '' returned Hagar . 
`` She calls Madam Conway her grandmother , and Madam Conway came from one of the best families in England -- that 's who she is ; and as to what she is , she 's the finest , handsomest , smartest girl in America ; and as long as old Hagar Warren lives , no city chap with strapped down pantaloons and sneering mouth is going to fool with her either ! '' 
This time there was something in the tone of his voice which prompted Hagar to draw near , and she was about to offer him the brandy , when Maggie appeared , together with three men , bearing a litter , or small cot-bed . 
The sight of her produced a much better effect upon him than Hagar 's brandy would have done , and motioning the old woman aside , he declared himself ready to be removed . 
`` Now , John , do pray be careful and not hurt him much , '' cried Maggie , as she saw how pale and faint he was , while even Hagar forgot the curled lip , which the young man bit until the blood started through , so intense was his agony when they lifted him upon the litter . 
`` The camphor , Hagar , the camphor , '' said Maggie , and the stranger did not push it aside when her hand poured it on his head ; but the laughing eyes , now dim with pain , smiled gratefully upon her , and the quivering lips once murmured as she walked beside him , `` Heaven bless you , Maggie Miller ! '' 
Arrived at Hagar 's cottage , the old woman suggested that he be carried in there , saying as she met Maggie 's questioning glance , `` I can take care of him better than any one else . '' 
For a moment the bearers paused , while Maggie , bending over the wounded man , said softly . 
This last was perfectly in accordance with Maggie 's frank , impulsive character , and it had the desired effect . 
Henry Warner would have borne almost death itself for the sake of being nursed by the young girl beside him , and he signified his willingness to proceed , while at the same time his hand involuntarily grasped that of Maggie , as if in the touch of her snowy fingers there were a mesmeric power to soothe his pain . 
But Maggie had no idea of putting her guest , as she considered him , in the kitchen chamber ; and when , as the party entered the house , Mrs. Jeffrey , from the head of the stairs , called out , `` This way , Maggie , tell them to come this way , '' she waved her aside , and led the way to a large airy room over the parlor , where , in a high , old fashioned bed , surrounded on all sides by heavy damask curtains , they laid the weary stranger . 
The village surgeon arriving soon after , the fractured bones were set , and then , as perfect quiet seemed necessary , the room was vacated by all save Maggie , who glided noiselessly around the apartment , while the eyes of the sick man followed her with eager , admiring glances , so beautiful she looked to him in her new capacity of nurse . 
He had left the cars at the depot , and hiring a livery horse was taking the shortest route from the east side of town to the west , when he came accidentally upon Maggie Miller , and as we have seen , brought his ride to a sudden close . 
All this he told to her on the morning following the accident , retaining until the last the name of the firm of which he was a member . 
`` Five years '' answered Maggie , `` when I was eleven , and Theo thirteen ; '' then , looking earnestly at him she exclaimed , `` and you are the very one , the clerk with the saucy eyeswhom grandma disliked so much , because she thought he made fun of her ; but we did n't think so -- Theo and I , '' she added hastily , as she saw the curious expression on Henry 's mouth , and fancied he might be displeased . 
For a moment the saucy eyes studied intently the fair girlish face of Maggie Miller , then slowly closed , while a train of thought something like the following passed through the young man 's mind ; `` a woman and yet a perfect child , innocent and unsuspecting as little Rose herself . 
Henry Warner never broke his word , and henceforth Maggie Miller was as safe with him as if she had been an only and well beloved sister . 
Thinking him to be asleep , Maggie started to leave the room , but he called her back , saying . 
`` Certainly , '' she answered , drawing a chair to the bedside . 
trembled on Maggie 's lips , while at the sound of that name , she was conscious of the same undefinable emotion she had once before experienced . 
`` If she were his sister he would tell me , '' she thought ; `` and if she is not his sister '' -- She did not finish the sentence , neither did she understand that if Rose to him was something dearer than a sister , she , Maggie Miller , did not care to know it . 
she asked at last . 
There are few who are , '' answered Henry ; and his eyes fixed themselves upon Maggie , to see how she would bear the compliment . 
But she scarcely heeded it , so intent was she upon knowing something more of the mysterious Rose . 
she continued ; and Henry Warner answered , `` she is a frail , delicate little creature , almost dwarfish in size , but perfect in form and feature . '' 
Involuntarily Maggie shrunk back in her chair , wishing her own queenly form had been a very trifle shorter , while Mr. Warner continued , `` She has a sweet , angel face , Maggie , with eyes of lustrous blue , and curls of golden hair . '' 
`` You must love her very dearly , '' said Maggie , the tone of her voice indicating a partial dread of what the answer might be . 
`` I do indeed love her , '' was Mr. Warner 's reply , `` love her better than all the world beside . 
And she has made me what I am ; but for her , I should have been a worthless dissipated fellow . 
It 's my natural disposition ; but Rose has saved me , and I almost worship her for it . 
She is my good angel -- my darling -- my '' -- Here he paused abruptly , and leaning back upon his pillows rather enjoyed than otherwise the look of disappointment plainly visible on Maggie 's face . 
She had fully expected to learn who Rose was ; but this knowledge he purposely kept from her . 
It did not need a very close observer of human nature , to read at a glance the ingenuous Maggie , whose speaking face betrayed all she felt . 
She was unused to the world . 
He was the first young gentleman whose acquaintshe had ever made , and he knew that she already felt for him a deeper interest than she supposed . 
To increase this interest was his object , and this he thought to do by withholding from her , for a time , a knowledge of the relation existing between him and the Rose of whom he had talked so much . 
The ruse was successful , for during the remainder of the day , thoughts of the golden-haired Rose were running through Maggie 's mind , and it was late that night ere she could compose herself to sleep , so absorbed was she in wondering `` whatRose was to Henry Warner . 
Not that she cared particularly , '' she tried to persuade herself ; `` but she would like to be at ease upon that subject . '' 
To Theo she had communicated the fact , that their guest was a partner of Douglas & Co. and this tended greatly to raise the young man in the estimation of a young lady like Theo Miller . 
Accordingly , on the morning of the second day she went with Maggie to the sick room , speaking to the stranger for the first time ; but keeping still at a respectful distance , until she should know something definite concerning him . 
No answer from Theo , who , like many others , had taken a dislike to his mouth , and felt puzzled to know whether he intended ridiculing her or not . 
`` Douglas , '' she repeated . 
By this time , Theo 's proud blue eyes shone with delight , and when , after a little further conversation , Mr. Warner expressed a wish to write to his partner , she brought her own rose-wood writing-desk for him to use , and then seating herself by the window , waited until the letter was written . 
he asked , near the close ; and coloring slightly , she answered , `` Invite him to come out and see you . '' 
cried Maggie , who was far more enthusiastic , though not more anxious than her sister . 
Of her , Henry Warner did not ask any message . 
He would not have written it had she sent one ; and folding the letter , after adding Theo 's invitation , he laid it aside . 
Instantly there came a shadow over Maggie 's face , while Theo , less scrupulous , asked , `` who Rose was . '' 
`` A very dear friend of mine , '' said Henry , and , as Mrs. Jeffrey just then sent for Theo , Maggie was left with him alone . 
`` Wait one moment , '' she said , as she saw him about to commence the letter . 
The paper was brought , and then seating herself by the window , Maggie looked out abstractedly , seeing nothing , and hearing nothing save the sound of the pen , as it wrote down words of love , for the gentle Rose . 
It was not a long epistle ; and , as at the close of the Douglas letter he had asked a message from Theo , so now at the close of this , he claimed one from Maggie . 
queried Henry , and coloring crimson , Maggie answered hesitatingly , `` I thought you would tell me if you wished me to know . '' 
`` Read this letter and that will explain who she is , '' the young man continued , offering the letter to Maggie , who , grasping it eagerly , sat down opposite , so that every motion of her face was visible to him . 
But the greatest charm of all , perhaps , lies in my fair nurse , Maggie Miller , for whom I risked my neck . 
`` Write to me , soon , dear Rose , and believe me ever `` Oh , '' said Maggie , catching her breath , which for a time had been partially suspended , `` Oh ; '' and in that single monosyllable , there was to the young man watching her , a world of meaning . 
`` She 's your sister , this little Rose ; '' and the soft dark eyes , flashed brightly upon him . 
`` What did you suppose her to be ? '' 
he asked , and Maggie answered , `` I thought she might be your wife , though I should rather have her for a sister , if I were you . '' 
`` You are a good girl , Maggie , '' he said , at last , `` and I would not for the world deceive you ; Rose is my step-sister . 
We are in no way connected save by a marriage , still I love her all the same . 
asked Maggie ; and Henry answered , `` No , in Leominster , which is not far distant . 
There were tears in Maggie 's eyes , tears for the fair young girl whom she had never seen , and she felt a yearning desire to look once on the beautiful face of her whom Henry Warner called his sister . 
`` I wish she would come here , I want to see her , '' she said , at last , and Henry replied , `` She does not go often from home . 
`` Come , Maggie , '' he said , when this was finished , `` you need exercise . 
Maggie would rather have remained with him : but she expressed her willingness to go , and in a few moments was seated on Gritty 's back , with the two letters clasped firmly in her hand . 
At one of these , the one bearing the name of Rose Warner , she looked often and wistfully ; `` 't was a most beautiful name , '' she thought , `` and she who bore it was beautiful too . '' 
And then there arose within her a wish , shadowy and undefined to herself , it is true -- but still a wish that she , Maggie Miller , might one day call that gentle Rose her sister . 
`` I shall see her sometimes , any way , she thought , `` and this George Douglas , too . 
I wish they 'd visit us together , '' and having by this time reached the post office , she deposited the letters , and galloped rapidly toward home . 
After giving an account of his accident , and the manner in which it occurred , Warner continued : `` They say 't is a mighty bad wind which blows no one any good , and so , though I verily believe I suffer all a man can suffer with a broken bone , yet , when I look at the fair face of Maggie Miller , I feel that I would not exchange this high old bed , to enter which , needs a short ladder , even for a seat by you on that three-legged stool , behind the old writing-desk . 
I never saw anything like her in my life . 
Everything she thinks , she says , and as to flattering her , it ca n't be done . 
I 've told her a dozen times at least that she was beautiful , and she did n't mind it any more than Rose does , when I flatter her . 
Still , I fancy if I were to talk to her of love , it might make a difference , and perhaps I shall , ere I leave the place . 
`` You know , George , I have always insisted there was but one female in the world fit to be a wife , and as that one was my sister , I should probably never have the pleasure of paying any bills for Mrs. Henry Warner ; but I 've half changed my mind , and I 'm terribly afraid this Maggie Miller , not content with breaking my bones , has made sad work with another portion of the body , called by physiologists , the heart . 
I do n't know how a man feels when he is in love ; but when this Maggie Miller looks me straight in the face with her sunshiny eyes , while her little soft white hand pushes back my hair -LRB- which by the way , I slily disarrange on purpose -RRB- I feel the blood tingle to the ends of my toes , and still I dare not hint such a thing to her . 
` Twould frighten her off in a moment , and she 'll send in her place either an old hag of a woman , called Hagar , or her proud sister Theo , whom I can not endure . 
She 's proud as Lucifer , thinks because she was born in England , and sprung from a high family , that there is no one in America worthy of her ladyship 's notice , unless indeed they chance to have money . 
You ought to have seen how her eyes lighted up when I told her you were said to be worth $ 200,000 . 
She told me directly to invite you out here , and this , I assure you , was a good deal for her to do . 
She 's just aristocratic enough in her nature . 
Why , I 'd sooner take Maggie for Rose 's sister , than for Theo 's . 
She , the distressed one , was Maggie ; the other was Theo , and the old lady was Madam Conway , who , luckily for me , chances at this time to be in England , buying up goods I presume . 
Maggie says that this trip to Worcester , together with a camp-meeting held in the Hillsdale woods last year , is the extent of her travels , and one would think so to see her . 
If you wish to know more of her , come and see for yourself , but again I warn you , hands off ; nobody is to flirt with her but myself , and it is very doubtful whether even I can do it peaceably , for that old Hagar , who by the way is a curious specimen , gave me to understand when I lay on the rock , with her sitting by as a sort of ogress , that so long as she lived no city chap with strapped pants -LRB- do , pray , bring me a pair , George , without straps ! -RRB- 
For a time after reading the above , George Douglas sat wrapt in thought , then bursting into a laugh as he thought how much the letter was like the jovial , light-hearted fellow who wrote it , he put it aside , and leaning back in his chair mused long and silently , not of Theo , but of Maggie , half wishing he were in Warner 's place instead of being there in the dusty city . 
But as this could not be , he contented himself with thinking that at some time not far distant he would visit the old stone house -- would see for himself this wonderful Maggie -- and , though he had been warned against it , would possibly win her from his friend , who , unconsciously perhaps , had often crossed his path , watching him jealously lest he should look too often and too long upon the fragile Rose , blooming so sweetly in her bird 's - nest of a home ` mong the tall old trees of Leominster . 
`` But he need not fear , '' he said somewhat bitterly , `` he need not fear for her , for it is over now . 
She has refused me , this Rose Warner , and though it touched my pride to hear her tell me no , I can not hate her for it . 
` She had given her love to another , ' she said , and Warner is blind or crazy that he does not see the truth . 
He may call her sister if he likes , though there is no tie of blood between them . 
But the first keen bitterness was over now , and remembering `` the wild girls of the woods , '' as he mentally styled both Theo and Maggie , he determined at last to see them for himself . 
To find the old house was an easy matter , for almost every one in town was familiar with its locality , and towards the close of the afternoon , he found himself upon its broad steps applying vigorous strokes to the ponderous brass knocker , and half hoping the summons would be answered by Maggie herself . 
Meanwhile , Henry and Mag had wandered to a little summer-house , where , with the bright moonlight falling upon them , they sat together , but not exactly as of old , for Maggie did not now look up into his face as she was wont to do , and if she thought his eye was resting upon her , she moved uneasily , while the rich blood deepened on her cheek . 
A change has come over Maggie Miller ; it is the old story , too -- old to hundreds of thousands , but new to her , the blushing maiden . 
Theo calls her nervous -- Mrs. Jeffrey calls her sick -- the servants call her mighty queer -- while old Hagar , hovering ever near , and watching her with a jealous eye , knows she is in love . 
He had never told her so ; '' and in Hagar Warren 's wild black eyes , there was a savage gleam , as she thought , `` he 'll rue the day that he dares trifle with Maggie Miller . '' 
He was only waiting a favorable opportunity for telling her the story of his love ; and now , as they sit together in the moonlight , with the musical flow of the millstream falling on his ear , he essays to speak -- to tell how she has grown into his heart ; to ask her to go with him where he goes ; to make his home her home , and so be with him always ; but ere the first word was uttered , Maggie asked if Mr. Douglas had brought the picture of his sister . 
Here it is ; '' and taking it from his pocket , he passed it to her . 
It was a face of almost ethereal loveliness , which through the moonlight looked up to Maggie Miller , and again she experienced the same undefinable emotion , a mysterious , invisible something , drawing her towards the original of the beautiful likeness . 
`` It is strange how thoughts of Rose always affect me , '' she said , gazing earnestly upon the large eyes of blue , shadowed forth upon the picture . 
`` It seems as though she must be nearer to me than an unknown friend . '' 
`` Seems she like a sister ? '' 
asked Henry Warner , coming so near that Maggie felt his warm breath upon her cheek . 
`` Yes , yes , that 's it , '' she answered , with something of her olden frankness . 
There were a few low , whispered words , and when the full moon which for a time , had hidden itself behind the clouds , again shone forth in all its glory , Henry had asked Maggie Miller to be the sister of Rose Warner , and Maggie had answered `` yes ! '' 
That night , in Maggie 's dreams , there was a strange commingling of thought . 
Thoughts of Henry Warner , as he told her of his love -- thoughts of the gentle girl whose eyes of blue had looked so lovingly up to her , as if between them there was indeed a common bond of sympathy -- and stranger far than all , thoughts of the little grave beneath the pine , where slept the so-called child of Hester Hamilton -- the child defrauded of its birth-right , and who , in the misty vagaries of dreamland , seemed alone to stand between her and the beautiful Rose Warner ! 
Onthe rude bench by her cabin door , sat Hagar Warren , her black eyes peering out into the woods , and her quick ear turned to catch the first sound of bounding footsteps , which came at last , and Maggie Miller was sitting by her side . 
Hagar asked , and her shrivelled hand smoothed , caressingly , the silken hair , as she looked into the glowing face of the young girl and half guessed what was written there . 
To the latter part of Theo 's remark , Maggie paid little heed ; but the mention of her grandmother troubled her . 
She would oppose it , Mag was sure of that , and it was to talk on this very subject she had come to Hagar 's cottage . 
`` Just the way I s ` posed it would end , '' said Hagar , when Mag , with blushing , half-averted face , told the story of her engagement ; `` Just the way I s ` posed ` twould end , but I did n't think ` twould be so quick . '' 
`` Two months and a half is a great while , and then we have been together so much , '' replied Maggie , at the same time asking if Hagar did not approve her choice . 
Involuntarily , Maggie thought of Rose , mentally resolving to be , if possible , more like her . 
said Hagar , observing Maggie 's silence . 
There was a moment 's silence , and then with an unnatural gleam in her eye , old Hagar turned towards Mag , and grasping her shoulder , said , `` If she does this thing , Maggie Miller -- if she casts you off , will you take mefor your grandmother ? 
I 'll be your drudge , your slave ; say , Maggie , may I go with you ? 
For a moment Mag looked at her in astonishment ; then thinking to herself , `` She surely is half-crazed , '' she answered laughingly , `` Yes , Hagar , if grandma casts me off , you may go with me . 
The corners of Hagar 's mouth worked nervously , but her teeth shut firmly over the thin , white lip , forcing back the wild words trembling there , and the secret was not told . 
`` Go home , Maggie Miller , '' she said , at last , rising slowly to her feet . 
Maggie was about to answer , when her thoughts were directed to another channel by the sight of George Douglas and Theo , coming slowly down the shaded pathway , which led past Hagar 's door . 
Old Hagar saw them , too , and , whispering to Maggie , said , `` there 's another marriage brewing , or the signs do not tell true , and madam will sanetion this one , too , for there 's money there , and goldcan purify any blood . '' 
Ere Maggie could reply , Theo called out , `` you here , Mag , as usual ? '' 
adding , aside , to her companion , `` she has the most unaccountable taste , so different from me , who can not endure anything low and vulgar . 
But I need not ask , '' she continued , `` for your associations have been of a refined nature . '' 
She was three thousand miles away , and with this distance between them , Maggie dared do anything ; so when the flag was again mentioned , she answered apologetically , as if it were something of which they ought to be ashamed : `` We never had any , but we can soon make one , I know . 
and , flying up the stairs to the dusty garret , she drew from a huge oaken chest , a scarlet coat , which had belonged to the former owner of the place , who little thought , as he sat in state , that his favorite coat would one day furnish materials for the emblem of American freedom ! 
No such thought as this , however , obtruded itself upon Mag , as she bent over the chest . 
`` The coat is of no use , '' she said , and gathering it up , she ran back to the parlor , where , throwing it across Henry 's lap , she told how it had belonged to her great-great-grandfather , who , at the time of the Revolution , went home to England . 
It was a long , delightful process , the making of that banner , and Maggie 's voice rang out loud and clear , as she saw how cleverly Henry Warner managed the shears , cutting the red coat into stripes . 
The arrangement of the satin fell to Maggie 's lot , and , while George Douglas made the stars , Theo looked on , a little doubtfully , not that her nationality was in any way affected , for what George Douglas sanctioned was by this time right with her ; but she felt some misgiving as to what her grandmother might say ; and thinking if she did nothing but look on and laugh , the blame would fall on Mag , she stood aloof , making occasionally a suggestion , and seeming as pleased as any one , when , at last , the flag was done . 
This was the first time Mrs. Jeffrey had attempted a letter to her employer , for Maggie had been the chosen correspondent , Theo affecting to dislike anything like letter-writing . 
On the day previous to Henry Warner 's arrival at the stone house , Mag had written to her grandmother , and ere the time came for her to write again , she had concluded to keep his presence there a secret : so Madam Conway was , as yet , ignorant of his existence ; and while in the homes of the English nobility , she bore herself like a royal princess , talking to young Arthur Carrollton of her beautiful grandaughter , she little dreamed of the real state of affairs at home . 
It is not strange , then , that Maggie , who slept at no great distance , was awakened by a tremendous crash , as of some one falling the entire length of the tower stairs , while a voice , frightened and faint , called out , `` Help me , Margaret , do ! 
Striking a light , Maggie hurried to the spot , while her merry laugh aroused the servants , who came together in a body . 
Stretched upon the floor , with one foot thrust entirely through the banner , which was folded about her so that the quilt-frame lay directly upon her bosom , was Mrs. Jeffrey , the broad frill of her cap standing up erect , and herself asserting with every breath that `` she was dead and buried , she knew she was . '' 
`` Wrapped in a winding sheet , I 'll admit , '' said Maggie , `` but not quite dead , I trust ; '' and putting down her light , she attempted to extricate her governess , who continued to apologize for what she had done . 
she screamed , as Maggie tried to release her foot from the rent in the linen sheet , a rent which the frightened woman persisted in saying , `` she could darn as good as new , '' while at the same time she implored of Maggie to handle carefully her ankle , which had been sprained by the fall . 
Maggie 's recent experience in broken bones had made her quite an adept , and taking the slight form of Mrs. Jeffrey in her arms , she carried her back to her room , where growing more quiet , the old lady told her how she happened to fall , saying , `` she never thought of stumbling , until she fancied that Washington and all his regiment were after her , and when she turned her head to see , she lost her footing , and fell . 
Forcing back her merriment , which in spite of herself would occasionally burst forth , Maggie made her teacher as comfortable as possible , and then staid with her until morning , when , leaving her in charge of a servant , she went below to say farewell to her guests . 
Between George Douglas and Theo , there were a few low spoken words , she granting him permission to write , while he promised to visit her again in the early autumn . 
He had not yet talked to her of love , for Rose Warner had still a home in his heart , and she must be dislodged ere another could take her place . 
But his affection for her was growing gradually less . 
Theo suited him well , her family suited him better , and when at parting he took her hand in his , he resolved to ask her for it , when next he came to Hillsdale . 
Meanwhile , between Henry Warner and Maggie there was a far more affectionate farewell , he whispering to her of a time not far distant , when he would claim her as his own , and she should go with him . 
He would write to her every week , he said , and Rose should write , too . 
He would see her in a few days , and tell her of his engagement , which he knew would please her . 
`` Let me send her a line , '' said Maggie , and on a tiny sheet of paper , she wrote , `` Dear Rose : Are you willing I should be your sister , Maggie ? '' 
In her disorderly chamber , too , Mrs. Jeffrey hobbled on one foot to the window , where , with a deep sigh of relief , she sent after the young men a not very complimentary adieu , which was echoed in part by the servants below , while Theo , on the piazza , exclaimed against `` the lonesome old house , which was never so lonesome before , '' and Maggie seated herself upon the stairs and cried ! 
Nestledamong the tall old trees which skirt the borders of Leominster village , was the bird 's - nest of a cottage , which Rose Warner called her home , and which , with its wealth of roses , its trailing vines and flowering shrubs , seemed fitted for the abode of one like her . 
Slight as a child twelve summers old , and fair as the white pond lily , when first to the morning sun it unfolds its delicate petals , she seemed too frail for earth , and both her aunt and he whom she called brother , watched carefully lest the cold north wind should blow too rudely on the golden curls , which shaded her childish brow . 
Very , very beautiful was little Rose , and yet few ever looked upon her without a feeling of sadness ; for in the deep blue of her eyes , there was a mournful , dreamy look , as if the shadow of some great sorrow were resting thus early upon her . 
The words were involuntarily spoken , and George Douglas , looking down upon her , guessed rightly that he `` who would never know how much he was beloved , '' was Henry Warner.To her the knowledge that Henry was something dearer than a brother had come slowly , filling her heart with pain , for she well knew that whether he clasped her to his bosom , as he often did , or pressed his lips upon her brow , he thought of her only as a brother thinks of a beautiful and idolized sister . 
It had heretofore been some consolation to know that his affections were untrammelled with thoughts of another , that she alone was the object of his love , and hope had sometimes faintly whispered of what perchance might be ; but from that dream she was waking now , and her face grew whiter still , as there came to her from time to time letters fraught with praises of Margaret Miller ; and if in Rose Warner 's nature , there had been a particle of bitterness , it would have been called forth toward one who , she foresaw , would be her rival . 
But Rose knew no malice , and she felt that she would sooner die than do aught to mar the happiness of Maggie Miller . 
For nearly two weeks she had not heard from Henry , and she was beginning to feel very anxious , when one morning , two or three days succeeding the memorable Hillsdale celebration , as she sat in a small arbor so thickly overgrown with the Michigan rose as to render her invisible at a little distance , she was startled by hearing him call her name , as he came in quest of her down the garden walk . 
The next moment he held her in his arms , kissing her forehead , her lips , her cheek ; then holding her off , he looked to see if there had been in her aught of change since last they met . 
Rose could not answer immediately , for his sudden coming had taken away her breath , and as he saw a faint blush stealing over her face , he continued , `` Can it be my little sister has been falling in love during my absence ? '' 
Never before had he spoken to her thus ; but a change had come over him , his heart was full of a beautiful image , and fancying Rose might have followed his example , he asked her the question he did , without , however , expecting or receiving a definite answer . 
she said ; and in the tones of her voice , there was a slight reproof which Henry felt keenly . 
He had been so engrossed with Maggie Miller , and the free joyous life he led in the Hillsdale woods , that for a time he had neglected Rose , who , in his absence , depended so much on his letters for comfort . 
`` I have been very selfish , I know , '' he said ; `` but I was so happy , that for a time I forgot everything save Maggie Miller . '' 
An involuntary shudder ran through Rose 's slender form ; but conquering her emotion , she answered calmly . 
`` What of this Maggie Miller ? 
Tell me of her , will you ? '' 
Winding his arm around her waist , and drawing her closely to his side , Henry Warner rested her head upon his bosom , where it had often lain , and smoothing her golden curls , told her of Maggie Miller , of her queenly beauty , of her dashing , independent spirit ; her frank , ingenuous manner ; her kindness of heart , and last of all , bending very low , lest the vine leaves and the fair blossoms of the rose should hear , he told her of his love , and Rose , the fairest flower of all which bloomed around that bower , clasped her hand upon her heart , lest he should see its wild throbbings , and forcing back the tears which moistened her long eyelashes , listened to the knell of all her hopes . 
Henceforth her love for him must be an idle mockery , and the time would come , when to love him as she loved him then , would be a sin , a wrong to herself , a wrong to him , and a wrong to Maggie Miller . 
`` You are surely not asleep , '' he said at last , as she made him no reply , and bending forward , he saw the tear drops resting on her cheek . 
And lifting up her head , Rose Warren answered , `` I was thinking how this new love of yours would take you from me and I should be alone . '' 
`` No , not alone , '' he said , wiping her tears away . 
`` Maggie and I have arranged that matter . 
You have often wished you had one , and you could surely find none worthier than Maggie Miller . '' 
`` Will she watch over you , Henry ? 
Will she be to you what yourwife should be ? '' 
asked Rose ; and Henry answered , `` She is not at all like you , my little sister . 
She relies implicitly upon my judgment ; so you see I shall need your blessed influence all the same , to make me what your brother and Maggie 's husband ought to be . '' 
`` Did she send me no message ? '' 
asked Rose ; and taking out the tiny note , Henry passed it to her , just as his aunt called to him from the house , whither he went , leaving her alone . 
There were blinding tears in Rose 's eyes as she read the few lines , and involuntarily she pressed her lips to the paper , which she knew had been touched by Maggie Miller 's hands . 
`` My sister , -- sister Maggie , '' she repeated , and at the sound of that name her fast-beating heart grew still , for they seemed very sweet to her , those words `` my sister , '' thrilling her with a new and strange emotion , and awakening within her a germ of the deep , undying love ; she was yet to feel for her who had traced those words , and asked to be her sister , `` I will do right , '' she thought , `` I will conquer this foolish heart of mine , or break it in the struggle , and Henry Warner shall never know how sorely it was wrung . '' 
The resolution gave her strength , and rising up , she too sought the house , where , retiring to her room , she penned a hasty note to Maggie , growing calmer with each word she wrote . 
`` I grant your request , '' she said , `` and take you for a sister well beloved . 
Forgive me , Maggie dear , for saying so much about that little child . 
So in the place of her , whom , knowing , I would have loved , I adopt you , sweet Maggie Miller , my sister and my friend . 
To my partial eyes he is worthy of you , Maggie , royal in bearing and queenly in form though you be , and that you may be happy with him will be the daily prayer of The letter was finished , and Rose gave it to her brother , who , after its perusal , kissed her saying , `` It is right , my darling . 
But neither the fragrant summer air , nor yet the presence of Henry Warner , who tarried several days , could rouse the drooping Rose ; and when at last she was left alone , she sought her bed , where for many weeks she hovered between life and death , while her brother and her aunt hung over her pillow , and Maggie , from her woodland home , sent many an anxious inquiry and message of love to the sick girl . 
In the close atmosphere of his counting-room , George Douglas , too , again battled manfully with his olden love , listening each day to hear that she was dead . 
But not thus early was Rose to die , and with the waning summer days she came slowly back to life . 
More beautiful than ever , because more ethereal and fair , she walked the earth like one who , having struggled with a mighty sorrow , had won the victory at last ; and Henry Warner , when he looked on her sweet , placid face , and listened to her voice as she made plans for the future , when `` Maggie would be his wife , '' dreamed not of the grave hidden in the deep recesses of her heart , where grew no flower of hope or semblance of earthly joy . 
The large , dark parlors were thrown open , the best chambers were aired , the bright , autumnal flowers were gathered and in tastefully arranged bouquets adorned the mantels , while Theo and Maggie , in their best attire , flitted uneasily from room to room , running sometimes to the gate to look down the grassy road , which led from the highway , and again mounting the tower stairs to obtain a more extended view . 
In her pleasant apartment , where last we left her with a sprained ankle , Mrs. Jeffrey , too , fidgeted about , half sympathizing with her pupils in their happiness , and half regretting the cause of that happiness , which was the expected arrival of George Douglas and Henry Warner , who , true to their promise , were coming again `` to try for a week the Hillsdale air , and retrieve their character as fast young men . '' 
So , at least , they told Mrs. Jeffrey , who , mindful of her exploit with the banner and wishing to make some amends , met them alone on the threshold , Maggie having at the last moment ran away , while Theo sat in a state of dignified perturbation upon the sofa . 
The weather was remarkably clear and bracing , and the greater part of each day was spent in the open air , either in fishing , riding , or hunting ; Maggie teaching Henry Warner how to ride and leap , while he in turn taught her to shoot a bird upon the wing , until the pupil was equal to her master ! 
In these out-door excursions George Douglas and Theo did not always join , for he had something to say , which he would rather tell her in the silent parlor , and which , when told , furnished food for many a quiet conversation ; so Henry and Maggie rode oftentimes alone ; and old Hagar , when she saw them dashing past her door , Maggie usually taking the lead , would shake her head and mutter to herself . 
He ought to hold her back , instead of leading her on . 
Mrs. Jeffrey wished so too , as night after night her slumbers were disturbed by the sounds of merriment which came up to her from the parlor below , where the young people were `` enjoying themselves , '' as Maggie said , when reproved for the noisy revel . 
The day previous to the one set for their departure chanced to be Henry Warner 's twenty-seventh birth-day , and this Maggie resolved to honor with an extra supper , which was served at an unusually late hour in the dining-room , the door of which opened out upon a closely latticed piazza . 
`` I wish we could think of something new to do , '' said Maggie as she presided at the table , `` something real funny ; '' then , as her eyes fell upon the dark piazza , where a single light was burning dimly ; sheexclaimed , `` Why ca n't we get up tableaux ? 
At a late hour the servants retired , and then George Douglas , who took kindly to the luscious old wine , which Maggie again had brought from her grandmother 's choicest store , filled a goblet to the brim , and pledging first the health of the young girls , drank to `` the old lady across the water , '' with whose goods they were thus making free ! 
Henry Warner rarely tasted wine , for though miles away from Rose , her influence was around him -- so , filling his glass with water , he , too , drank to the wish that `` the lady across the sea would remain there yet awhile , or at all events not stumble upon us to-night ! '' 
thought Maggie , glancing around at the different articles scattered all over the floor , and laughing as she saw in fancy her grandmother 's look of dismay , should she by any possible chance obtain a view of the room , where perfect order and quiet had been went to reign . 
It did end at last , and tired and sleepy , Theo went directly to her chamber , while Maggie staid below , thinking to arrange matters a little , for their guests were to leave on the first train , and she had ordered an early breakfast . 
Once fairly on the sea , Madam Conway became exceedingly impatient and disagreeable , complaining both of fare and speed , and at length came on deck one morning with the firm belief that something dreadful had happened to Maggie ! 
She was dangerously sick , she knew , for never but once before had she been visited with a like presentiment , and that was just before her daughter died . 
Then it came to her just as this had done , in her sleep , and very nervously the lady paced the vessel 's deck , counting the days as they passed , and almost weeping for joy when told Boston was in sight . 
Immediately after landing , she made inquiries as to when the next train passing Hillsdale station would leave the city , and though it was midnight , she resolved at all hazards to go on , for if Maggie were really ill , there was no time to be lost ! 
Accordingly , when at four o'clock A.M. Maggie , who was partially awake , heard in the distance the shrill scream of the engine , as the night express thundered through the town , she little dreamed of the boxes , bundles , trunks and bags , which lined the platform of Hillsdale station , nor yet of the resolute woman in brown , who persevered until a rude one horse wagon was found in which to transport herself and her baggage to the old stone house . 
Still , he managed quite well until they turned into the grassy by-road , and Madam Conway saw through the darkness the light which Maggie had inadvertently left within the dining-room ! 
Flying back to her room , she awoke her sister , who , springing up in bed , whispered faintly , `` Willshe kill us dead , Maggie ? 
Will she kill us dead ? '' 
no , '' answered Maggie , her own courage rising with Theo 's fears . 
`` She 'll have to scold a spell , I suppose , but I can coax her , I know ! '' 
By this time the old lady was ascending the stairs , and closing the door , Maggie applied her eye to the key-hole , listening breathlessly for what might follow . 
'T was the 4th of July , and if you 'll believe it , they made a banner , and Maggie planted it herself on the housetop . 
Meantime , Madam Conway had sought her granddaughter 's chamber , where Theo in her fright had taken refuge under the bed , while Maggie feigned a deep , sound sleep . 
A few vigorous shakes , however , aroused her , when greatly to the amazement of her grandmother , she burst into a merry laugh , and winding her arms around the highly scandalized lady 's neck , said , `` Forgive me , grandma , I 've been awake ever since you came home . 
I did not mean to leave the dining-room in such disorder , but I was sotired , and we had suchfun -- hear me out , '' she continued , laying her hand over the mouth of her grandmother , who attempted to speak ; `` Mrs. Jeffrey told you how Mr. Warner broke his leg , and was brought here . 
cried a smothered voice from under the bed ; and Theo emerged into view , with a feather or two ornamenting her hair , and herself looking a little uneasy and frightened . 
`` Yes , he did , '' said Theo , `` and Maggie cut up your blue satin bodice for stars , and took one of your fine linen sheets for the foundation . '' 
`` 'T was I , grandma -- 't was I , '' interrupted Maggie , looking reproachfully at Theo . 
`` I knew you 'd be angry , and I tried to make Maggie behave , but she would n't . '' 
`` I do n't know as it is anything to you what Maggiedoes , and I think it would look quite as well in you , to take part of the blame yourself , instead of putting it all upon your sister , '' was Madam Conway 's reply ; and feeling almost as deeply injured as Mrs. Jeffrey herself , Theo began to cry , while , Maggie with a few masterly strokes , succeeded in so far appeasing the anger of her grandmother , that the good lady consented for the young gentlemen to stay to breakfast , saying , though , that `` they should decamp immediately after , and never darken her doors again . '' 
`` But Mr. Douglas is rich , '' sobbed Theo from behind her pocket handkerchief , `` immensely rich and of a very aristocratic family , I 'm sure , else where did he get his money ? '' 
The toast was cold , the steak was cold , the coffee was cold , and frosty as an icicle was the lady who sat where the merry Maggie had heretofore presided . 
Scarcely a word was spoken by any one ; but in the laughing eyes of Maggie there was a world of fun , to which the mischievous mouth of Henry Warner responded , by a curl exceedingly annoying to his stately hostess , who , in passing him his coffee , turned her head in another direction lest she should be too civil ! 
Not thus lenient would Madam Conway have been towards Henry Warner , had he presumed to ask her that morning for Maggie , but he knew better than to broach the subject then . 
`` He would write to her , '' he said , immediately after his return to Worcester , and in the meantime , Maggie , if she saw proper , was to prepare her grandmother for it by herself announcing the engagement . 
This , and much more he said to Maggie , as they sat together in the library , so much absorbed in each other as not to observe the approach of Madam Conway , who entered the door just in time to see Henry Warner with his arm around Maggie 's waist . 
She was a woman of bitter prejudices , and had conceived a violent dislike for Henry , not only on account of the stars and stripes , but because she read to a certain extent the true state of affairs . 
Her suspicions were now confirmed , and rapidly crossing the floor , she confronted him , saying , `` let my grand-daughter alone , young man , both now , and forever . '' 
Something of Hagar 's fiery spirit flashed from Maggie 's dark eyes , but forcing down her anger , she answered half earnestly , half playfully , `` I am nearly old enough , grandma , to decide that matter for myself . '' 
Wringing Maggie 's hand , Henry arose and left the room , followed by the indignant lady , who would willingly have suffered himto walk , but thinking 200,000 dollars quite too much money to go on foot , she had ordered her carriage , and both the senior and junior partner of Douglas & Co. were ere long riding a second time away from the old house by the mill . 
`` Grandmawishes to see you , Maggie , in her room , '' said Theo to her sister one morning , three days after the departure of their gnests . 
asked Maggie ; and Theo answered , `` I do n't know , unless it is to talk with you about Arthur Carrollton . '' 
repeated Maggie . 
`` Much good it will do her to talk to me of him . 
I hate the very sound of his name ; '' and rising , she walked slowly to her grandmother 's room , where in her stiff brown satin dress , her golden spectacles planted firmly upon her nose , and the Valenciennes border of her cap shading but not concealing the determined look on her face , Madam Conway sat erect in her high backed chair , with an open letter upon her lap . 
`` I am , '' answered Maggie , playing nervously with the tassel of her wrapper , and wondering why Henry had written so soon , before she had prepared the way by a little judicious coaxing . 
`` But I am , '' answered Maggie , and in the same cold , decided manner , her grandmother continued : `` Then nothing remains for me , but to forbid your having any communication whatever with one whose conduct in my house has been so unpardonably rude and vulgar . 
In the large dark eyes there was a gleam decidedly Hagarishas Maggie arose , and standing before her grandmother , made answer : `` You must not , in my presence , speak thus of Henry Warner . 
Maggie offered no remonstrance ; but the fire of a volcano burned within , as she watched the letter blackening upon the coals ; and when next her eyes met those of her grandmother , there was in them a fierce , determined look , which prompted that lady at once to change her tactics , and try the power of persuasion , rather than of force . 
But he is pleased with you , Maggie . 
I have his daguerreotype , '' and opening her work-box , she drew it forth , and held it before Maggie , who resolutely shut her eyes , lest she shouldsee the face of one she was so determined to dislike . 
asked Madam Conway , as her arm began to ache , and Maggie had not yet spoken . 
`` I have n't looked at him , '' answered Maggie , `` I hate him , and if he comes here after me , I 'll tell him so , too . 
Here , wholly overcome , Maggie burst into tears , and precipitately left the room . 
An hour later , and Hagar , sitting by her fire , which the coolness of the day rendered necessary , was startled by the abrupt entrance of Maggie , who , throwing herself upon the floor , and burying her face in the old woman 's lap , sobbed bitterly . 
asked Hagar ; and in a few words Maggie explained the whole . 
The right chord was touched , and much as Hagar might have disliked Henry Warner , she was his fast friend now . 
Her mistress 's opposition and Maggie 's tears had wrought a change , and henceforth all her energies should be given to the advancement of the young couple 's cause . 
`` I can manage it , '' she said , smoothing the long silken tresses which lay in disorder upon her lap . 
This plan seemed perfectly feasible ; but it struck Maggie unpleasantly . 
She had never attempted to deceive in her life , and she shrunk from the first deception . 
She would rather , she said , try again to win her grandmother 's consent . 
But this she found impossible , Madam Conway was determined , and would not listen . 
So she wrote a cold , and rather insulting letter to Henry Warner , bidding him , as she had once done before , `` let her grand-daughter alone , '' and saying `` it was useless for him to attempt anything secret , for Maggie would be closely watched , the moment there were indications of a clandestine correspondence . '' 
In it he urged so many reasons why Maggie should avail herself of this opportunity for communicating with him , that she yielded at last , and regularly each week , old Hagar toiled through sunshine and through storm to the Richland post office , feeling amply repaid for her trouble , when she saw the bright expectant face which almost always greeted her return . 
Dark haired , dark eyed , dark browed , and as the servants said , `` dark in her disposition , '' she was naturally envious of those whose rank in life entitled them to more attention than she was herself accustomed to receive . 
For this reason , Maggie Miller had from the first been to her an object of dislike , and she was well pleased when Madam Conway , after enjoining upon her the strictest secrecy , appointed her to watch that young lady , and see that no letter was ever carried by her to the post office which Madam Conway had not first examined . 
In the snaky eyes there was a look of exultation , as Anna Jeffrey promised to be faithful to her trust , and for a time she became literally Maggie Miller 's shadow , following her here , following her there , and following her everywhere , until Maggie complained so bitterly of the annoyance , that Madam Conway at last , feeling tolerably sure that no counterplot was intended , revoked her orders , and bade Anna Jeffrey leave Margaret free to do as she pleased . 
Thus relieved from espionage , Maggie became a little more like herself , though a sense of the injustice done her by her grandmother , together with the deception she knew she was practising , wore upon her ; and the servants at their work listened in vain for the merry laugh they had loved so well to hear . 
`` He was , '' she said , `` without exception , the most elegant and aristocratic young man she had ever seen ; '' and then for more than an hour , she would entertain Theo with a repetition of the many agreeable things he had said to her during the one day she had spent at his house , while Madam Conway was visiting there . 
In perfect indifference , Maggie , who was frequently present , would listen to these stories , sometimes listlessly turning the leaves of a book , and again smiling scornfully as she thought how impossible it was that the fastidious Arthur Carrollton should have been at all pleased with a girl like Anna Jeffrey ; and positive as Maggie was that she hatedhim , she insensibly began to feel a very slight degree of interest in him , `` at least , she would like to know how he looked ; '' and one day when her grandmother and Theo were riding , she stole cautiously to the box where she knew his picture lay , and taking it out , looked to see , `` if he were so very fine looking . '' 
`` Yes he was , '' Maggie acknowledged that ; and sure that she hated him terribly , she lingered long over that picture , admiring the classically shaped head , the finely cut mouth , and more than all the large dark eyes which seemed so full of goodness and truth . 
she exclaimed , at last , restoring the picture to its place , `` If Henry were only a little taller , and had as handsome eyes , he 'd be a great deal better looking . 
I 'll send it too , '' and she burst into a loud laugh at the novel idea which had crossed her mind . 
That day when Madam Conway returned from her ride , she was surprised at Maggie 's proposing that Theo and herself should have their likenesses taken for Arthur Carrollton . 
Delighted at this unexpected concession , Madam Conway gave her consent , and the next afternoon found Theo and Maggie at the daguerrean gallery in Hillsdale , where the latter astonished both her sister and the artist by declaring her intention of not only sitting with her bonnet and shawl on ; but also of turning her backto the instrument ! 
`` That position or none , '' she said ; and the picture was accordingly taken , presenting a very correct likeness when finished , of a bonnet , a veil , and a shawl , beneath which Maggie Miller was supposed to be . 
Arthur Carrollton knew that Maggie was unlike any other person , and the joke , she thought , would increase rather than diminish the interest he already felt in her . 
So she made no objection , and in a few days it was on its way to England , together with a lock of Hagar 's snow white hair , which Maggie had coaxed from the old lady , and unknown to her grandmother , placed in the casing at the last moment . 
Several weeks passed away , and then there came an answer -- a letter so full of wit and humor that Maggie confessed to herself that he must be very clever to write so many shrewd things , and be withal so perfectly refined . 
Not a word was written concerning it , and as Maggie kept her own counsel , both Theo and her grandmother marvelled greatly , admiring its beauty and wondering for whom it was intended . 
She has sent it as a token of respect , for she was always fond of me ; '' and going to the glass , she very complacently ornamented her Honiton collar with Hagar 's hair , while Maggie , bursting with fun , beat a hasty retreat from the room , lest she should betray herself . 
Thus the winter passed away , and early in the spring , George Douglas , to whom Madam Conway had long ago sent a favorable answer , came to visit his betrothed , bringing to Maggie a note from Rose , who had once or twice sent messages in Henry 's letters . 
She was in Worcester now , and her health was very delicate . 
`` Sometimes , '' she wrote , `` I fear I shall never see you , Maggie Miller -- shall never look into your beautiful face , or listen to your voice ; but whether in heaven or on earth I am first to meet with you , my heart claims you as a sister , the one whom of all the sisters in the world I would rather call my own . '' 
murmured Maggie , pressing the delicately traced lines to her lips , `` how near she seems to me ! 
nearer almost than Theo ; '' and then involuntarily her thoughts went backward to the night when Henry Warner first told her of his love , and when in her dreams there had been a strange blending together of herself , of Rose , and the little grave beneath the pine ! 
Hagar 's secret must be kept a little longer , and unsuspicious of the truth , Maggie Miller must dream on of sweet Rose Warner , whom she hopes one day to call her sister ! 
`` She has a beautiful name , Jenny Douglas -- much prettier than Rose Warner , about whom Maggie talks to me so much . '' 
A gathering frown on her grandmother 's face warned Theo that she had touched upon a forbidden subject , and as Mr. Douglas manifested no desire to continue the conversation , it ceased for a time , Theo wishing `` she could see Jenny Douglas , '' and George wondering what she would say when she did see her ! 
On the morning of his departure , as he stood upon the steps alone with Madam Conway , she said , `` I think I can rely upon you , Mr. Douglas , not to carry either letter , note , or message from Maggie to that young Warner . 
`` She must have some pearls for her hair , '' thought Madam Conway , and when next Maggie , who , girl-like , tried the effect of her first party dress at least a dozen times , stood before the glass to see `` if it were exactly the right length , '' she was presented with the pearls , which Anna Jeffrey , with a feeling of envy at her heart , arranged in the shining braids of her hair . 
Involuntarily Maggie glanced at the tall marble gleaming through the distant trees , while Hagar 's thoughts were down in that other grave -- the grave beneath the pine . 
Her rich purple satin and Valenciennes laces , with which she hoped to impress Mrs. Douglas senior , were carefully packed up together with Maggie 's dress ; and then , shawled and bonneted , she waited impatiently for her carriage , which she preferred to the cars . 
And , Maggie , '' he continued , `` will you go , too ? 
Do you approve my plan , Maggie , darling ? 
Maggie could not answer him then , for an elopement was something from which she instinctively shrunk , and with a faint hope that her grandmother might consent , she went back to her sister 's room , where she had not yet been missed . 
Very rapidly the remainder of the afternoon passed away , and at an early hour , wishing to know `` exactly how she was going to look , '' Mag commenced her toilet . 
Theo , too , desirous of displaying her white satin as long as possible , began to dress ; while Madam Conway , in no haste to don her purple satin , which was uncomfortably tight , amused herself by watching the passers by , nodding at intervals , in her chair . 
Maggie knew him in a moment -- knew it was Arthur Carrollton ; and , turning pale , she started backward , while he advanced forward and offering her his hand , looked down upon her with a winning smile , saying , as he did so , `` Excuse my familiarity . 
You are Maggie Miller , I am sure . '' 
For an instant Mag could not reply , but soon recovering her composure , she received the stranger gracefully , and then taking the chair he politely brought her , she listened while her grandmother told that `` he had arrived at Montreal two weeks before ; that he had reached Hillsdale that morning , an hour or two after their departure , and learning their destintion , had followed them in the cars ; that she had taken the liberty of informing Mrs. Morton of his arrival , and that lady had of course extended to him an invitation to be present at her party . '' 
`` Which invitation I accept , provided Miss Maggie allows me to be her escort , '' said the young man , and again his large , black eyes rested admiringly upon her . 
Mag had anticipated a long , quiet talk with Henry Warner , and , wishing the Englishman anywhere but there , she answered coldly , `` I can not well decline your escort , Mr. Carrollton , so of course I accept it . '' 
Madam Conway bit her lip , but Mr. Carrollton , who was prepared for anything from Maggie Miller , was not in the least displeased , and , consulting his diamond-set watch , which pointed to nearly ten , he asked `` if it were not time to go . '' 
`` You remain here , Maggie ; I will bring down your shawl , '' and she glided from the room , leaving them purposely alone . 
Mag was a good deal astonished , slightly embarrassed and a little provoked , all of which Arthur Carrollton readily saw ; but this did not prevent his talking to her , and during the few minutes of Madam Conway 's absence , he decided that neither Margaret 's beauty , nor yet her originality , had been overrated by her partial grandmother , while Mag , on her part , mentally pronounced him `` the finest looking , the most refined , the most gentlemanly , the proudest , and the hatefullestman she had ever seen ! '' 
Wholly unconscious of her cogitation , he wrapped her shawl very carefully about her , taking care to cover her white shoulders from the night air ; then offering his arm to her grandmother , he led the way to the carriage , whither she followed him , wondering if Henry would be jealous , and thinking her first act would be to tell him `` how she hatedArthur Carrollton , and always should ! '' 
Greatly she marvelled at the long delay of her grandmother and Maggie , and she had just suggested to Henry that he should go in quest of them , when she saw her sister ascending the stairs . 
It was Rose Warner , and the face she sought was Maggie Miller 's . 
She had seen no semblance of it yet , for Henry had no daguerreotype . 
Still , she felt sure she would know it , and when at last , in all her queenly beauty , Maggie came , leaning on Arthur Carrollton 's arm , Rose 's heart made ready answer to the oft repeated question , `` who is she ? '' 
`` Beautiful , gloriously beautiful , '' she whispered softly , while , from the grave of her buried hopes , there came one wild heart-throb , one sudden burst of pain caused by the first sight of her rival , and then Rose Warner grew calm again , and those who saw the pressure of her hand upon her side , dreamed not of the fierce pang within . 
She had asked her brother not to tell Maggie she was to be there . 
She would rather watch her awhile , herself unknown ; and now with eager , curious eyes , she followed Maggie , who was quickly surrounded by a host of admirers . 
It was Maggie 's first introduction into society , and yet , so perfect was her intuition of what was proper , that neither by word or deed did she do aught to shock the most fastidious . 
It is true her merry laugh more than once rang out above the din of voices ; but it was so joyous that no one objected , particularly when they looked in her bright and almost childish face . 
Arthur Carrollton , too , acting as her escort , aided her materially , for it was soon whispered around that he was a wealthy Englishman , and many were the comments made upon the handsome couple , who seemed singularly adapted to each other . 
A glance had convinced Arthur Carrollton , that Maggie was by far the most beautiful lady present , and feeling that on this , her first introduction into society , she needed some one to shield her , as it were , from the many foolish , flattering speeches which were sure to be made in her hearing , he kept her at his side , where she was nothing loth to stay ; for notwithstanding that she `` hated him so , '' there was about him a fascination she did not try to resist . 
`` They are a splendid couple , '' thought Rose , and then she looked to see how Henry was affected by the attentions of the handsome foreigner . 
But Henry was not jealous , and standing a little aloof , he felt more pleasure than pain in watching Maggie as she received the homage of the gay throng . 
This feeling , however , passed away when Maggie came at last to his side , with her winning smile , and playful words . 
Very closely Madam Conway watched her now ; but Maggie did not heed it , and leaning on Henry 's arm , she seemed oblivious to all save him . 
After a time , he led her out upon a side piazza , where they would be comparatively alone . 
Observing that she seemed a little chilly , he left her for a moment , while he went in quest of her shawl . 
Scarcely was he gone when a slight , fairy form came flitting through the moonlight to where Maggie sat , and twining its snow white arms around her neck , looked lovingly into her eyes , whispering soft and low , `` My sister . '' 
How Maggie 's blood bounded at the sound of that name , which even the night wind , sighing through the trees , seemed to take up and repeat , `` My sister ! '' 
What was there in those words thus to affect her ? 
Was that fair young creature , who hung so fondly over her , naught to her save a common stranger ? 
We ask this of you , our reader , and not of Maggie Miller , for to her there came no questioning like this . 
She only knew that every pulsation of her heart responded to the name of sister , when breathed by sweet Rose Warner , and folding her arms about her , she pillowed the golden head upon her bosom , and pushing back the clustering curls , gazed long and earnestly into a face which seemed so heavenly and pure . 
`` I have wished so much to see you , to know if you are worthy of my noble brother , '' said Rose at last , thinking she must say something on the subject uppermost in both their minds . 
asked Maggie , the bright blushes stealing over her cheek . 
`` My heart would claim you for that , even though I had no brother , '' answered Rose , and again her lips touched those of Maggie . 
Seeing them thus together , Henry tarried purposely a long time , and when at last he rejoined them , he proposed returning to the drawing-room , where many inquiries were making for Maggie . 
`` I wish to hear you play , '' and taking her arm in his , he led her to the piano . 
From the moment of her first introduction to him , Maggie had felt that there was something commanding in his manner , something she could not disobey ; and now , though she fancied it was impossible to play before that multitude , she seated herself mechanically , and while the keys swam before her eyes , went through with a difficult piece , which she had never but once before executed correctly . 
`` You have done well , much better than I anticipated , '' said Mr. Carrollton , again offering her his arm ; and though a little vexed , those few words of commendation were worth more to Maggie than the most flattering speech which Henry Warner had ever made to her . 
Soon after leaving the piano , a young man approached , and invited her to waltz . 
This was something in which Maggie excelled ; for two winters before , Madam Conway had hired a teacher to instruct her grand-daughters in dancing , and she was about to accept the invitation , when , drawing her arm still closer within his own , Mr. Carrollton looked down upon her , saying softly , `` I would n't . '' 
Maggie had often waltzed with Henry at home . 
He saw no harm in it , and now when Arthur Carrollton objected , she was provoked , while at the same time she felt constrained to decline . 
`` Sometime , when I know you better , I will explain to you whyI do not think it proper for young girls to waltz with every one , '' said Mr. Carrollton ; and leading her from the drawing-room , he devoted himself to her for the remainder of the evening , making himself so perfectly agreeable , that Maggie forgot everything , even Henry Warner , who in the meantime had tried to recognize Madam Conway as an acquaintance . 
A cool nod , however , was all the token of recognition she had to give him . 
This state of feeling augured ill for the success of his suit ; but when at a late hour that night , in spite of grandmother or Englishman , he handed Maggie to the carriage , he whispered to her softly , `` I will see her to-morrow morning , and know the worst . '' 
The words caught the quick ear of Madame Conway ; but not wishing Mr. Carrollton to know there was anything particular between her grand-daughter and Henry Warner , she said nothing , and when arrived at last at the hotel , she asked an explanation , Maggie , who hurried off to bed , was too sleepy to give her any answer . 
`` I shall know before long , any way , if he sees me in the morning , '' she thought , as she heard a distant clock strike two , and settling her face into the withering frown with which she intended to annihilate Henry Warner , the old lady was herself , ere long , much faster asleep than the young girl at her side , who was thinking of Henry Warner , wishing he was three inches taller , or herself three inches shorter , and wondering if his square shoulders would not be somewhat improved by braces ! 
`` Tell him I sha n't do it , '' answered the sleepy Maggie , adjusting herself for another nap . 
Then , as she thought how his eyes probably looked as he said , `` I wish her to ride , '' she felt impelled to obey , and greatly to her grandmother 's surprise , she commenced dressing . 
Theo 's riding dress was borrowed , and though it did not fit her exactly , she looked unusually well , when she met Mr. Carrollton in the lower hall , and once mounted upon the gay steed , and galloping away into the country , she felt more than repaid for the loss of her morning slumber . 
`` You ride well , '' said Mr. Carrollton , when at last they paused upon the brow of a hill , overlooking the town , `` but you have some faults , which , with your permission I will correct , '' and in the most polite and gentlemanly manner , he proceded to speak of a few points wherein her riding might be improved . 
Among other things , he said she rode too fast for a lady ; and biting her lip , Maggie thought , `` If I only had Gritty here , I 'd lead him such a race as would either break his bonesor his neck , I 'm not particular which . '' 
Still , she followed his directions implicitly , and when , ere they reached home , he told her that she excelled many who had been for years to riding schools , she felt repaid for his criticisms , which she knew were just , even if they were not agreeable . 
Breakfast being over , he announced his intentention of going down to Boston , telling Maggie he should probably return that evening and go with her to Hillsdale on the morrow . 
`` I am glad he warned me in time , '' and then trembling in every limb lest Maggie should be spirited away before her very eyes , she determined upon going home immediately , and leaving Arthur Carrollton to follow in the cars . 
Accordingly Maggie was bidden to pack her things at once , the excited old lady keeping her eye constantly upon her to see that she did not disappear through the window or some other improbable place . 
In silence Maggie obeyed , pouting the while a very little , partly because she should not again see Henry , partly because she had confidently expected to ride home with Mr. Carrollton ! 
and partly because she wished to stay to the firemen 's muster , which had long been talked about , and was to take place on the morrow . 
Worcester was left behind , and they were far out in the country ere a word was exchanged between Madam Conway and Maggie ; for while the latter was pouting behind her veil , the former was wondering what possessed Mike to drive into every rut and over every stone . 
`` You , Mike , '' she exclaimed at last leaning from the window . 
Alighting from the carriage , and setting her little feet upon the ground with a vengeance , Madam Conway first scolded Mike unmercifully for his carelessness , and next chided Maggie for manifesting no more concern . 
said she , looking carefully after the bandbox containing her purple satin . 
`` I 'd rather go therefirst , '' answered Maggie , pointing to a brown , old-fashioned farmhouse , about a quarter of a mile away . 
At first , Madam Conway objected , saying she preferred sitting on the bank to intruding herself upon strangers ; but as it was now noon-day , and the warm September sun poured fiercely down upon her , she finally concluded to follow Maggie 's advice , and gathering up her box and parasol started for the house , which , with its tansy patch on the right , and its single poplar tree in front , presented rather an uninviting appearance . 
Just hear that old tin horn , '' she exclaimed , as a blast , loud and shrill , blown by practised lips , told to the men in a distant field that dinner was ready . 
All this Madam Conway saw at a glance , but it did not prevent her from holding high her aristocratic skirts , lest they should be contaminated , and when , in answer to her knock , an odd-looking , peculiarly dressed woman appeared , she uttered an exclamation of disgust , and turning to Maggie , said , `` You talk -- I ca n't ! '' 
For the last ten minutes she had been watching the strangers as they toiled over the sandy road , and when sure they were coming there , had retreated into her bed-room , donning a flaming red calico , which , guiltless of hoops , clung to her tenaciously , showing her form to good advantage , and rousing at once the risibles of Maggie . 
A black lace cap , ornamented with ribbons of the same fanciful color as the dress , adorned her head ; and with a dozen or more pins in her mouth , she now appeared , hooking her sleeve and smoothing down the black collar upon her neck . 
In a few words , Maggie explained to her their misfortune , and asked permission to tarry there until the carriage was repaired . 
With a haughty frown the lady declined the offer , while Maggie looked on in delight , pleased with an adventure which promised so much fun . 
In this last Madam Conway seated herself , while Maggie reclined upon a lounge , wondering at the difference in the various articles of furniture , some of which were quite expensive , while others were of the most common kind . 
She looks like some one I have seen , '' said Maggie as Betsey Jane left the room . 
`` I mean to ask their names ; '' but this her grandmother would not suffer . 
`` It was too much like familiarity , '' she said , `` and she did not believe in putting one 's self on a level with such people . '' 
`` Why , grandman , yes you will , if she asks you to , '' answered Maggie . 
What else she might have said was prevented by the entrance of Betsey Jane , who informed them that `` dinner was ready ; '' and with a mental groan , as she thought how she was about to be martyred , Madam Conway followed her to the dining-room , where a plain substantial farmer 's meal was spread . 
and taking it for granted they were , she loaded both Madam Conway 's and Maggie 's plate with every variety of vegetables used in the preparation of the dish known everywhere as `` boiled victuals . '' 
By this time the men had ranged themselves in respectful silence upon the opposite side of the table , each stealing an admiring though modest glance at Maggie ; for the masculine heart , whether it beat beneath a homespun frock or coat of finest cloth , is alike susceptible to glowing , youthful beauty like that of Maggie Miller . 
The head of the house was absent -- `` had gone to town with a load of wood , '' so his spouse informed the ladies , at the same time pouring out a cup of tea , which she said she had tried to make strong enough to bear up an egg . 
`` Betsey Jane , '' she continued , casting a deprecating glance , first at the blue sugar bowl and then at her daughter , `` what possessed you to put on this brown sugar , when I told you to get crush ? 
Dew have some , '' she continued as Madam Conway shook her head . 
`` Certainly , '' answered Maggie , anxious to see how the ratanswould manage to squeeze in between herself and the table-leg , as they would have to do if they came an inch nearer . 
This feat could not be done , and in attempting it Betsey Jane upset Maggie 's tea upon her handsome travelling dress , eliciting from her mother the exclamation , `` Betsey Jane Douglas , you allus was the blunderin ` est girl ! '' 
Dinner being over , Madam Conway and Maggie returned to the parlor , where , while the former resumed her chair , the latter amused herself by examining the books and odd-looking daguerreotypes which lay upon the table . 
she almost screamed , bounding to that lady 's side , `` as I live , here 's a picture of Theo and George Douglastaken together , '' and she held up a handsome casing before the astonished old lady , who donning her golden spectacles in a twinkling saw for herself that what Maggie said was true . 
`` They stoleit , '' she gasped . 
and she was about to leave the room , when Maggie , whose quick mind saw farther ahead , bade her stop . 
`` I may discover something more , '' said she , and taking a handsomely bound volume of Lamb , she turned to the flyleaf , and read , `` Jenny Douglas , from her brother George , Worcester , Jan. 8th . '' 
It was plain to her now ; but any mortification she might otherwise have experienced was lost in the one absorbing thought , `` What will grandmasay ? '' 
`` Grandmother , '' said she , showing the book , `` do n't you remember the mother of that girl called her Betsey Jane Douglas ? '' 
`` And do n't you know , too , '' continued Maggie , `` that George always seemed inclined to say as little as possible of his parents ? 
`` Maggie , Maggie , '' hoarsely whispered Madam Conway , grasping Maggie 's arm , `` doyou mean to insinuate -- am I to understand that you believe that odious woman and hideous girl to be the mother and sister of George Douglas ? '' 
`` I have n't a doubt of it , '' answered Maggie . 
Out of her chair to the floor tumbled Madam Conway , fainting entirely away , while Maggie , stepping to the door , called for help . 
`` There may possibly be a mistake , after all , '' thought Maggie . 
`` I 'll question the girl , '' and turning to Betsey Jane , she said , taking up the book which had before attracted her attention , `` Is this , Jenny Douglas , intended for you ? '' 
An audible groan from the sofa , and Maggie continued , `` Where does your brother live ? '' 
asked Maggie , and Mrs. Douglas , mistaking the motive which prompted the question , answered , `` Yes , dear , he is . 
This is her picter , '' and she passed to Maggie the daguerreotype of Theo . 
`` I 've looked at it before , '' said Maggie , and the good woman proceeded . 
I 'll show 'em to you , '' and leaving the room , she soon returned with three patch-work quilts , wherein were all possible shades of color , red and yellow predominating , and in one the `` rising sun '' forming a huge centre piece . 
The thought of Theoreposing beneath the `` risin ' sun , '' or yet the `` herrin ' - bone , '' was intolerable ; and looking beseechingly at Maggie , she whispered , `` Do seeif Mike is ready . '' 
`` She 's better without it , '' said Maggie . 
`` She seldom takes medicine , '' and politely expressing her gratitude to Mrs. Douglas for her kindness , she bade Mike drive on . 
asked Maggie , and the excited woman answered . 
`` To stop it , '' repeated Maggie . 
`` Make the best of it , of course , '' answered Maggie . 
Give me the hartshorn , Maggie . 
`` How willshe bear it when it comes to her knowledge , as it necessarily must ? 
It will kill her , I know , '' she exclaimed , after Maggie had exhausted all her powers of reasoning in vain ; then , as she remembered the woman 's avowed intention of visiting her daughter-in-law on the morrow , she felt that she mustturn back ; she mustsee Theo and break it to her gently , or `` the first sight of that odious creature , claiming her for a daughter , might be of incalculable injury . '' 
`` Stop , Mike , '' she was about to say ; but ere the words passed her lips , she reflected that to take Maggie back to Worcester , was to throw her again in Henry Warner 's way , and this she could not do . 
She could stop at the Charlton depot , not far distant , and wait for the downward train , while Mike drove Maggie home , and this she resolved to do . 
Mike was accordingly bidden to take her at once to the depot , which he did , while she explained to Maggie , her reason for returning . 
`` Theo is much better alone , and George will not thank you for interfering , '' said Maggie , not at all pleased with her grandmother 's proceedings . 
`` It was her duty , '' she said , `` to stand by Theo in trouble , and if a visit from that horrid creature was n't trouble , she could not well define it . '' 
asked Maggie . 
Once in a carriage , and on her way to the `` Bay State , '' she began to feel a little nervous , half-wishing she had followed Maggie 's advice , and left Theo alone . 
But it could not now be helped , and while trying to think what she should say to her astonished grand-daughter , she was set down at the door of the hotel , slightly bewildered , and a good deal perplexed , a feeling which was by no means diminished when she learned that Mr. and Mrs. Douglas were both out of town . 
The moment she saw the former , who came eagerly forward to meet her , the weary , worn-out woman burst into tears ; but at the sight of Mr. Carrollton , she forced them back , saying in reply to Maggie 's inquiries , that Theo was not at home , that she had spent a dreadful day , and been knocked down in a fight at the depot , in proof of which she pointed to her torn dress , her crumpled bonnet , and scratched face . 
Maggie laughed aloud in spite of herself , and though Mr. Carrollton 's eyes were several times turned reprovingly upon her , she continued to laugh at intervals at the sorry , forlorn appearance presented by her grandmother , who for several days was confined to her bed , from the combined effects of fasting , fright , firemen 's muster , and her late encounter with Mrs. Douglas , senior ! 
Mr. Carrolltonhad returned from Boston on Thursday afternoon , and finding them all gone from the hotel , had come on to Hillsdale in the evening train , surprising Maggie as she sat in the parlor alone , wishing herself in Worcester , or in some place where it was not as lonely as there . 
With his presence the loneliness disappeared , and in making his tea and listening to his agreeable conversation , she forgot everything , until , observing that she looked weary , he said , `` Maggie , I would willingly talk to you all night , were it not for the bad effect it would have you on to-morrow . 
You must go to bed now , '' and he showed her his watch , which pointed to the hour of midnight . 
Exceedingly mortified , Maggie was leaving the room , when noticing her evident chagrin , Mr. Carrollton came to her side and laying his hand very respectfully on hers , said kindly , `` It is my fault , Maggie , keeping you up so late , and I only send you away now , because those eyes are growing heavy , and I know that you need rest . 
He went with her to the door , watching her until she disappeared up the stairs ; then half wishing he had not sent her from him , he , too , sought his chamber ; but not to sleep , for Maggie , though absent , was with him still in fancy . 
For more than a year he had been haunted with a bright , sunshiny face , whose owner embodied the dashing , independent spirit , and softer qualities which made Maggie Miller so attractive . 
Of this face he had often thought , wondering if the real would equal the ideal , and now that he had met with her , had looked into her truthful eyes , had gazed upon her sunny face , which mirrored faithfully her every thought and feeling , he was more than satisfied , and to love that beautiful girl seemed to him an easy matter . 
After this manner he reasoned as he walked up and down his chamber , while Maggie , on her sleepless pillow , was thinking , too , of him , wondering if she did hate him as much as she intended , and if Henry would be offended at her sitting up with him until after twelve o'clock . 
It was nearly half-past nine when Maggie awoke next morning , and making a hasty toilet , she descended to the dining-room , where she found Mr. Carrollton awaiting her . 
So , in something of a pet , the young lady breakfasted alone with her aunt , Mr. Carrollton preferring to wait for Maggie . 
`` I am sorry I kept you waiting , '' said Maggie , seating herself at the table , and continuing to apologize for her tardiness . 
But Mr. Carrollton felt more than repaid by having her thus alone with him , and many were the admiring glances he cast towards her , as with her shining hair , her happy face , her tasteful morning gown of pink , and her beautiful white hands which handled so gracefully the silver coffee-urn , she made a living , glowing picture , such as any man might delight to look upon . 
There was a shadow on Maggies brow , as she left the room to dress , a shadow which had not wholly disappeared when she returned ; and observing this , Mr. Carrollton said , `` Were I to consult my own wishes , Maggie , I should leave Miss Jeffrey at home ; but she is a poor girl whose enjoyments are far less than ours , consequently I invited her for this once , knowing how fond she is of riding . '' 
said Maggie , the shadow leaving her brow at once . 
`` I am glad that wrinklehas gone , at all events , '' returned Mr. Carrollton , laughingly , and laying his hand upon her forehead , he continued : `` Were you my sister Helen , I should probably kissyou for having so soon got over your pet ; but as you are Maggie Miller , I dare not , '' and he looked earnestly at her , to see if he had spoken the truth . 
Coloring crimson as it became the affianced bride of Henry Warner to do , Maggie turned away , thinking Helen must be a happy girl , and half wishing she , too , were Arthur Carrollton 's sister . 
It was a long , delightful excursion they took , and Maggie , when she saw how Anna Jeffrey enjoyed it , did not altogether regret her presence . 
On their way home she proposed calling upon Hagar , `` whom she had not seen for three whole days . '' 
asked Mr. Carrollton ; and Maggie replied , `` She is my old nurse , -- a strange , crazy creature , whom they say I somewhat resemble . '' 
By this time they were near the cottage , in the door of which old Hagar was standing , with her white hair falling round her face . 
`` I see by your looks , you do n't care to call , but I shall , '' said Maggie , and bounding from her saddle , she ran up to Hagar , pressing her hand and whispering in her ear , that it would soon be time to hear from Henry . 
`` Kissed her , I do believe ! '' 
`` She must have admirable taste ! '' 
`` Why did n't you come and speak to her ? '' 
said Maggie , as he alighted to assist her in again mounting Gritty . 
`` She used to see you in England , when you were a baby , and if you wo n't be angry , I 'll tell you what she said , it was , that you were the crossest , ugliest young one she ever saw ! 
and the saucy eyes looked mischievously at the proud Englishman , who , truth to say , didplace her in the saddle with a little more force than was at all necessary . 
He was only annoyed for what he considered Maggie 's undue familiarity with a person like Hagar , but he wisely forbore making any comments in Anna Jeffrey 's presence , except , indeed , to laugh heartily at Hagar 's complimentary description of himself when a baby . 
Arrived at home , and alone again with Maggie , he found her so very good-natured and agreeable , that he could not chide her for anything , and Hagar was for a time forgotten . 
That evening , as the reader knows , they went together to the depot , where they waited four long hours , but not impatiently ; for sitting there in the moonlight , with the winding Chicopee full in view , and Margaret Miller at his side , Arthur Carrollton forgot the lapse of time , especially when Maggie , thinking no harm , gave a most ludicrous description of her call upon Mrs. Douglas senior , and of her grandmother 's distress at finding herself so nearly connected with what she termed `` a low , vulgar family . '' 
Arthur Carrollton was very proud , and had Theo been hissister , he might , to some extent , have shared in Madam Conway 's chagrin ; and so he said to Maggie , at the same time fully agreeing with her that George Douglas was a refined , agreeable man , and as such entitled to respect . 
These words were little heeded then by Maggie , but with most painful distinctness they recurred to her in the after time , when , humbled in the very dust , she had no hope that the highborn , haughty Carrollton would stoop to a child of Hagar Warren ! 
But no shadow of the dark future was over her now ; and very eagerly she drank in every word and look of Arthur Carrollton , who , all unconsciously , was trampling on another 's rights , and gradually weakening the fancied love she bore for Henry Warner . 
The arrival of the train brought their pleasant conversation to a close , and for a day or two Maggie 's time was wholly occupied with her grandmother , to whom she frankly acknowledged having told Mr. Carrollton of Mrs. Douglas and her daughter Betsey Jane . 
As time passed on she became reconciled to the Douglases , having , as she thought , some well-founded reasons for believing that for Theo 's disgrace , Maggie would make amends by marrying Mr. Carrollton , whose attentions each day became more and more marked , and were not apparently altogether disagreeable to Maggie . 
On the contrary , his presence at Hillsdale was productive of much pleasure to her , as well as of a little annoyance . 
From the first he seemed to exercise over her an influence she could not well resist -- a power to make her do whatever he willed that she should do ; and though she sometimes rebelled , she was pretty sure in the end to yield the contest , and submit to one who was evidently the ruling spirit . 
As yet nothing had been said of the hair ornament which , out of compliment to him , her grandmother wore every morning in her collar , but at last , one day Madam Conway spoke of it herself , asking `` if it were , as she had supposed , his grandmother 's hair ? '' 
`` Why , no , '' he answered involuntarily ; `` it is a lock Maggie sent me in that wonderful daguerreotype ! '' 
thought Maggie , while her eyes fairly danced with merriment , as she anticipated the question she fancied was sure to follow , but did not . 
One glance at her tell-tale face was sufficient for Madam Conway . 
That afternoon Mr. Carrollton and Maggie went out to ride , and in the course of their conversation he referred to the pin , asking whose hair it was and seeming much amused when told that it was Hagar 's . 
`` But why did you not tell her when it first came , '' he said ; and Maggie answered , `` Oh , it was such fun to see her sporting Hagar 's hair , when she is so proud . 
It did n't hurt her either , for Hagar is as good as anybody . 
For instance , this old Hagar may be well enough in her way , but suppose she were nearly connected to you -- your grandmotherif you like -- it would certainly make some difference in your position . 
You would not be Maggie Miller , and I '' -- `` Would n't ride with me , I dare say , '' interrupted Maggie ; to which he replied , `` I presume not , '' adding as he saw slight indications of pouting , `` and therefore I am glad you are Maggie Miller , and not Hagar 's grandchild . '' 
Mentally pronouncing him a `` proud hateful thing , '' Maggie rode on a while in silence . 
But Mr. Carrollton knew well how to manage her , and he , too , was silent until Maggie , who could never refrain from talking any length of time , forgot herself and began chatting away as gaily as before . 
During their excursion they came near to the gorge of Henry Warner memory , and Maggie , who had never quite forgiven Mr Carrollton for criticising her horsemanship , resolved to show him what she could do . 
The signal was accordingly given to Gritty , and ere her companion was aware of her intention she was tearing over the ground at a speed he could hardly equal . 
The ravine was just on the border of the wood , and without pausing an instant , Gritty leaped across it , landing safely on the other side , where he stopped , while half fearfully , half exultingly , Maggie looked back to see what Mr. Carrollton would do . 
At first he had fancied Gritty beyond her control , and when he saw her directly over the deep chasm he shuddered , involuntarily stretching out his arms to save her ; but the look she gave him as she turned around , convinced him that the risk she had run was done on purpose . 
Still he had no intention of following her , for he feared his horse 's ability as well as his own to clear that pass . 
and Maggie 's eyes looked archly out from beneath her tasteful riding cap . 
For half a moment he felt tempted to join her , but his better judgment came to his aid , and he answered , `` Yes , Maggie , I am afraid , having never tried such an experiment . 
He did not praise her . 
Nay , she fancied there was more of censure in the tones of his voice ; at all events , he had asked her rather commandingly to return , and `` she would n't do it . '' 
For a moment she made no reply , and he said again , `` Maggie , will you come ? '' 
then half playfully , half reproachfully , she made answer , `` A gallant Englishman indeed ! 
No , I sha n't try the leap again to-day , I do n't feel like it ; but I 'll cross the long bridge half a mile from here -- good bye , '' and fully expecting him to meet her , she galloped off , riding , ere long , quite slowly , `` so he 'd have a nice long time to wait for her ! '' 
How then was she disappointed , when , on reaching the bridge , there was nowhere a trace of him to be seen , neither could she hear the sound of his horse 's footsteps , though she listened long and anxiously . 
`` He is certainly the most provoking man I ever saw ; '' she exclaimed , half crying with vexation . 
No , we would n't , '' she continued ; `` I should in time get accustomed to minding him , and then I think he 'd be splendid , though no better than Henry . 
and chirruping to Gritty , she soon stood at the door of the cabin . 
`` Showed his good sense , '' interrupted Hagar , adding that Maggie must n't think every man was going to risk his neck for her . 
`` I do n't think so , of course , '' returned Maggie ; `` but he might act better -- almost commanded me to come back and join him , as though I was a little child ; but I would n't do it . 
I mean to scare him and see ; '' and springing from Gritty 's back , she gave a peculiar whistling sound , at which the pony bounded away towards home while she followed Hagar into the cottage , where a letter from Henry awaited her . 
They were to sail for Cuba on the 15th of October , and he now wrote , asking if Maggie would go without her grandmother 's consent . 
`` She would not run away , '' and so she said to Hagar , to whom she confided the whole affair . 
`` I do not think it would be right to elope , '' she said . 
`` I ca n't see how his approving , or notapproving can affect you , '' said Hagar ; then bending down , so that her wild eyes looked full in Maggie 's eyes , she said , `` Are you beginning to like this Englishman ? '' 
`` My grandchild , Maggie Miller ! 
Thinking her emotion caused by anger at Arthur Carrollton , MAg mentally chided herself for having inadvertently said what she did , while , at the same time , she tried to soothe old Hagar , who rocked to and fro , as was her custom when her `` crazy spells '' were on . 
Growing a little more composed , she said , at last , `` Marry Henry Warner , by all means , Maggie ; he ai n't as proud as Carrollton -- he would not care as much if he knew it . '' 
and she looked wistfully towards Mag , who , far more intent upon something else , answered , `` Yes , I remember . 
and running to the window , she saw Mr. Carrollton , mounted upon Gritty , and riding furiously towards the house . 
`` Henry Warner must snare the bird quick , or he will lose it , '' muttered Hagar , as she walked to the door , where , evidently much excited , Mr. Carrollton asked if `` she knew aught of Miss Miller , and why Gritty had come home alone ? 
From her post near the window , Maggie could plainly see his face , which was very pale , and expressive of much concern , while his voice , she fancied , trembled as he spoke her name . 
`` He does care , '' she thought ; woman 's pride was satisfied , and ere Hagar could reply , she ran out saying laughingly , `` And so you thought maybe I was killed , but I 'm not . 
Maggie knew she did not deserve this , and blushing like a guilty child , she offered no resistance when he lifted her in the saddle gently -- tenderly , as if she had indeed escaped from some great danger . 
`` It is time you were home , '' said he , and throwing the bridle across his arm , he rested his hand upon the saddle and walked slowly by her side . 
All his fancied coldness was forgotten ; neither was the leap nor yet the bridge once mentioned , for he was only too happy in having her back alive , while she was doubting the propriety of an experiment which , in the turn matters had taken , seemed to involve deception . 
Observing at last that he occasionally pressed his hand upon his side , she asked the cause , and was told that he had formerly been subject to a pain in his side , which excitement or fright greatly augmented . 
The frank ingenuousness of her nature prevailed , and turning towards him her dark , beautiful eyes , in which tears were shining , she said : `` Forgive me , Mr. Carrollton . 
I am sorry I caused you any uneasiness , '' she continued , as she saw a shadow flit over his face . 
Arthur Carrollton could not resist the pleading of those lustrous eyes , nor yet refuse to take the ungloved hand she offered him ; and if , in token of reconciliation , he did press it a little more fervently than Henry Warner would have thought at all necessary , he only did what , under the circumstances , it was very natural he should do . 
From the first Maggie Miller had been a puzzle to Arthur Carrollton ; but he was fast learning to read her -- was beginning to understand how perfectly artless she was -- and this little incident increased , rather than diminished , his admiration . 
`` I will forgive you , Maggie , '' he said , on one condition . 
It did not occur to her that he could not yet have reached the depot , and as she knew nothing of a change in the time of the trains , she was taken wholly by surprise , when , fifteen minutes later , a manly form bent over her , as she lay upon the bank , and a voice , earnest and thrilling in tones , murmured softly , `` Maggie , are those tears for me ? '' 
Learning that Maggie was in the woods , he had started in quest of her , going naturally to the mossy bank , where , as we have seen , he found her weeping on the grass . 
She was weeping for him -- he was sure of that . 
He was not indifferent to her , as he had sometimes feared , and for an instant he felt tempted to take her in his arms and tell her how dear she was to him . 
`` I will speak to her first , '' he thought , and so he asked `` if the tears were for him . '' 
Inexpressibly astonished and mortified at having him see her thus , Maggie started to her feet , while angry words at being thus intruded upon , trembled on her lips . 
But winding his arm around her , Mr. Carrollton drew her to his side , explaining to her in a few words how he came to be there , and continuing , `` I do not regret the delay , if by its means I have discovered what I very much wish to know . 
Maggie , doyou care for me ? 
He drew her very closely to him -- looking anxiously into her face , which she covered with her hands . 
She knew he was in earnest , and the knowledge that he loved her thrilled her for an instant with indescribable happiness . 
A moment , however , and thoughts of her engagement with another flashed upon her . 
`` She must not sit there thus with Arthur Carrollton -- she would be true to Henry , '' and with mingled feelings of sorrow , regret and anger -- though why she should experience either she did not then understand -- she drew herself from him , and when he said again , `` Will Maggie answer ? 
she replied petulantly , `` No ; ca n't a body crywithout being bothered for a reason ? 
`` I did not mean to intrude , and I beg your pardon for having done so , '' said Mr. Carrollton , sadly , adding , as Maggie made no reply , `` I expected a different answer , Maggie ; I almost hoped you liked me , and I believe now that you do . '' 
In Maggie 's bosom there was a fierce struggle of feeling . 
She didlike Arthur Carrollton -- and she thoughtshe liked Henry Warner -- at all events she was engaged to him , and half angry at the former for having disturbed her , and still more angry at herself for being thus distrubed , she exclaimed as he again placed his arm around her , `` Leave me alone , Mr. Carrollton . 
and gathering up her shawl , which lay upon the grass , she ran away to Hagar 's cabin , hoping he would follow her . 
It was his first attempt at love-making , and very much disheartened , he walked slowly back to the house ; and while Maggie , from Hagar 's door , was looking to see if he were coming , he , from the parlor window , was watching , too , for her , with a shadow on his brow and a load upon his heart . 
In the meantime , Maggie , having given up all hopes of again seeing Mr. Carrollton , was waiting impatiently the coming of Hagar , who was absent , having , as Maggie readily conjectured , gone to Richland . 
It was long past noon when she returned , and by that time the stains had disappeared from Maggie 's face , which looked nearly as bright as ever . 
Still , it was with far less eagerness than usual that she took from Hagar 's hand the expected letter from Henry . 
It was a long , affectionate epistle , urging her once more to accompany him , and saying if she still refused she must let him know immediately , as they were intending to start for New York in a few days . 
`` I ca n't go , '' said Maggie ; `` it would not be right . '' 
And going to the time-worn desk , where , since her secret correspondence , she had kept materials for writing , she wrote to Henry a letter , telling him she felt badly to disappoint him , but she deemed it much wiser to defer their marriage until her grandmother felt differently , or at least until she was at an age to act for herself . 
This being done , she went slowly back to the house , which to her seemed desolate indeed . 
Her grandmother saw readily that something was the matter , and rightly guessing the cause , she forebore questioning her , neither did she once that day mention Mr. Carrollton , although Anna Jeffrey did , telling her what he had said about her `` thinking more of Hagar than of himself , '' and giving as her opinion that he was much displeased at her rudeness in running away . 
`` Nobody cares for his displeasure , '' answered Maggie , greatly vexed at Anna , who took especial delight in annoying her . 
Thus a week went by , when one evening , as Madam Conway and Maggie sat together in the parlor , they were surprised by the sudden appearance of Henry Warner . 
All the afternoon he had been at Hagar 's cottage waiting for Maggie , and at length determining to see her , he had ventured to the house . 
With a scowling frown , Madam Conway looked at him through her glasses , while Maggie , half joyfully , half fearfully , went forward to meet him . 
`` I do not believe she cares to go , '' thought Madam Conway , as she glanced at Maggie 's face ; but she did not say so , lest she should awaken within the young girl a feeling of opposition . 
She had watched Maggie closely , and felt sure that her affection for Henry Warner was neither deep nor lasting . 
Still , from what had passed , she fancied that opposition alone would only make the matter worse by rousing Maggie at once . 
She knew far more of human nature than either of the young people before her ; and after a little reflection , she suggested that Henry should leave Maggie with her for a year , during which time no communication whatever should pass between them , while she would promise faithfully not to influence Margaret either way . 
At first , Henry spurned at the proposition , and when he saw that Margaret thought well of it , he reproached her with a want of feeling , saying `` she did not love him as she had once done . '' 
`` I shall not forget you , Henry , '' said Maggie , coming to his side and taking his hand in hers , `` neither will you forget me ; and when the year has passed away , only think how much pleasanter it will be for us to be married here at home , with grandma 's blessing on our union ! '' 
said Henry , who missed something in Maggie 's manner . 
`` I domean to prove true , '' she answered sadly , though at that moment another face , another form , stood between her and Henry Warner , who , knowing that Madam Conway would not suffer her to go with him on any terms , concluded at last to make a virtue of necessity , and accordingly expressed his willingness to wait , provided Margaret were allowed to write occasionally either to himself or Rose . 
`` She wished the test to be perfect , '' she said , `` and unless he accepted her terms , he must give Maggie up , at once and forever . '' 
As there seemed no alternative , Henry rather ungraciously yielded the point , promising to leave Maggie free for a year , while she , too , promised not to write either to him or to Rose , except with her grandmother 's consent . 
Maggie Miller 's word once passed , Madam Conway knew it would not be broken , and she unhesitatingly left the young people together while they said their parting words . 
A message of love from Maggie to Rose -- a hundred protestations of eternal fidelity , and then they parted ; Henry , sad and disappointed , slowly wending his way back to the spot where Hagar impatiently awaited his coming , while Maggie , leaning from her chamber window , and listening to the sound of his retreating footsteps , brushed away a tear , wondering the while why it was that she felt so relieved . 
Halfin sorrow , half in joy , old Hagar listened to the story which Henry told her , standing at her cottage door . 
In sorrow , because she had learned to like the young man , learned to think of him as Maggie 's husband , who would not wholly cast her off , if her secret should chance to be divulged ; and in joy , because her idol would be with her yet a little longer . 
`` Maggie will be faithful quite as long as you , '' she said , when he expressed his fears of her forgetfulness ; and trying to console himself with this assurance , he sprang into the carriage in which he had come , and was driven rapidly away . 
queried Rose , as he entered the private parlor of the hotel where she was staying with her aunt . 
Then very briefly he related to her the particulars of his adventure , to which she listened eagerly , one moment chiding herself for the faint , shadowy hope which whispered that possibly Maggie Miller would never be his wife , and again sympathizing in his disappointment . 
`` A year would not be very long , '' she said `` and in the new scenes to which he was going , '' a part of it would pass rapidly away ; '' and then in her childlike , guileless manner , she drew a glowing picture of the future , when , her own health restored , they would return to their old home in Leominster , where , after a few months more , he would bring to them his bride . 
`` With such a treasure as you for a sister , I ought not to repine , even though Maggie Miller should never be mine . '' 
Many a fond remembrance , too , she gave to Maggie Miller , who , in her woodland home , thought often of the travellers on the sea , never wishing that she was with them ; but experiencing always a feeling of pleasure in knowing that she was Maggie Miller yet , and should be until next year 's autumn leaves were falling . 
Of Arthur Carrollton she thought frequently , wishing she had not been so rude that morning in the woods , and feeling vexed because in his letters to her grandmother , he merely said , Remember me to Margaret . '' 
`` I wish he would write something besides that , '' she thought , `` for I remember him now altogether too much for my own good ; '' and then she wondered `` what he wouldhave said that morning , if she had not been so cross . '' 
Very little was said to her of him by Madam Conway , who , having learned that he was not going to England , and would ere long return to them , concluded for a time to let the matter rest , particularly as she knew how much Maggie was already interested in one whom she had resolved to hate . 
Then , indeed , in a most unenviable state of mind , she repined at the disgrace which Theo had brouht upon them , and charged Maggie repeatedly to keep it a secret from Mrs. Jeffrey and Anna , the first of whom made many inquiries concerning the family , which she supposed of course was very aristocratic . 
Directed wrong side up , sealed with a wafer , and stamped with a thimble , it bore an unmistakable resemblance to its writer , who expressed many regrets that `` she had not known in the time o n't , who her illustrious visitors were . '' 
In the firstMadam Conway and Maggie were cordially invited to visit Charlton again ; in the secondBetsey Jane sent her regrets ; while in the thirdMadam Conway was particularly requested to excuse haste and a bad pen . 
The letter closed with a playful insinuation that as Henry Warner had gone , Maggie might possibly marry Arthur Carrollton , and so make amends for the disgrace which Theo had unwittingly brought upon the Conway line . 
The day came , and , unusually excited , Maggie flitted from room to room , seeing that everything was in order , wondering how he would meet her and if he had forgiven her for having been so cross at their last interview in the woods . 
The effect of every suitable dress in her wardrobe was tried , and she decided at last upon a crimson and black merino , which harmonized well with her dark eyes and hair . 
The dress was singularly becoming , and feeling quite well satisfied with the face and form reflected by her mirror , she descended to the parlor , where any doubts she might have had concerning her personal appearance were put to flight by Anna Jeffrey , who , with a feeling of envy , asked `` if she had the scarlet fever ! '' 
The car whistle had sounded some time before , and Maggie 's quick ear caught at last the noise of the bells in the distance . 
Nearer and nearer they came ; the sleigh was at the door , and forgetting everything but her own happiness , Maggie ran out to meet their guest , nor turned her glowing face away when he stooped down to kiss her . 
He had forgiven her ill-nature , she was certain of that , and very joyfully she led the way to the parlor , where as the full light of the lamp fell upon him she started involuntarily , he seemed so changed . 
she asked , and her voice expressed the deep anxiety she felt . 
Forcing back a slight cough and smiling down upon her , he answered cheerfully , `` Oh no , not sick . 
I took a severe cold , soon after my arrival in Montreal , '' and the cough he had attempted to stifle , now burst forth , sounding to Maggie , who thought only of consumption , like an echo from the grave . 
`` Oh , I am so sorry , '' she answered sadly , and her eyes filled with tears , which she did not try to conceal , for looking through the window across the snow-clad field on which the winter moon was shining , she saw instinctively another grave beside that of her mother . 
Madam Conway had not yet appeared , and as Anna Jeffrey just then left the room , Mr. Carrollton was for some moments alone with Maggie . 
Winding his arm around her waist , and giving her a most expressive look , he said , `` Maggie , are those tears for me ? '' 
Instantly the bright blushes stole over Maggie 's face and neck , for she remembered the time when once before he had asked her a similar question . 
Not now , as then , did she turn from him away , but she answered frankly , `` Yes , they are . 
Whether Mr. Carrollton liked blowsycomplexions or not , he certainly admired Maggie 's at that moment , and drawing her closer to his side , he said , half playfully , half earnestly , `` To see you thus anxious for me , Maggie , more than atoues for your waywardness when last we parted . 
Will you nurse me , Maggie , just as my sister Helen would do , were she here ? '' 
The right chord was touched , and all the soft , womanly qualities of Maggie Miller 's nature were called forth by Arthur-Carrollton 's failing health . 
For several weeks after his arrival at Hillsdale he was a confirmed invalid , lying all day upon the sofa in the parlor , while Maggie read to him from books which he selected , partly for the purpose of amusing himself , and more for the sake of benefiting her and improving her taste for literature . 
At other times , he would tell her of his home beyond the sea , and Maggie , listening to him while he described its airy halls , its noble parks , its shaded walks and musical fountains , would sometimes wish aloud that she might one day see that spot which seemed to her so much like paradise . 
He wished so ; too , and oftentimes when , with half-closed eyes , his mind was wandering amid the scenes of his youth , he saw at his side a queenly figure with features like those of Maggie Miller , who each day was stealing more and more into his heart , where love for other than his nearest friends had never before found entrance . 
She had many faults , he knew , but these he possessed both the will and the power to correct , and as day after day she sat reading at his side , he watched her bright , animated face , thinking what a splendid woman she would make , and wondering if an American rose like her would bear transplanting to English soil . 
Accordingly one afternoon , when he had been there two months or more , and Maggie had gone with her grandmother to ride , she went down to the parlor under pretence of getting a book to read . 
`` That does not seem at all like Maggie , '' said Mr. Carrollton , and with a meaning smile far more expressive than words , Anna answered , `` She may not always be alike , but hush ! 
I dare say Maggie has coaxed her grandmother to drive by the post office , thinking there might be a letter from Henry Warner . 
Her manner affected Mr. Carrollton perceptibly , but he made no reply ; and Anna asked `` if he knew Mr. Warner ? '' 
`` I saw him in Worcester , I believe , '' he said , and Anna continued , `` Do you think him a suitable husband for a girl like Maggie ? '' 
`` Maggie engaged ! '' 
Arthur Carrollton was a perfectly honorable man , and once assured of Maggie 's engagement , he would neither by word or deed do aught to which the most fastidious lover could object , and Henry Warner 's rights were as safe with him as with the truest of friends . 
But was Maggie really engaged ? 
He hoped so at least , and alternating between hope and fear , he waited impatiently the return of Maggie , who , with each thought of losing her , seemed tenfold dearer to him than she had ever been before ; and when at last she came bounding in , he could scarcely refrain from folding her in his arms , and asking of her to think again ere she gave another than himself the right of calling her his bride . 
But she is not mine , he thought , and so he merely took her cold hands within his own , rubbing them until they were warm . 
Then seating himself by her side upon the sofa , he spoke of her ride , asking casually if she called at the post office . 
`` No , we did not drive that way , '' she answered readily , adding that the post office had few attractions for her now , as no one wrote to her save Theo . 
She evidently spoke the truth , and with a feeling of relief Mr. Carrollton thought that possibly Miss Jeffrey might have been mistaken ; but he would know at all hazards , even though he ran the risk of being thought extremely rude . 
`` Maggie , '' he began , `` you may think me bold , but there is something I very much wish to know , and which you , if you choose , can tell me . 
The bright color faded out from Maggie 's cheek , while her eyes grew darker than before , and still she did not speak . 
Not that she was angry with him for asking her that question ; but because the answer , which , if made at all , must be yes , was hard to utter . 
And yet why should she hesitate to tell him the truth at once ? 
Alas , for thee , Maggie Miller ! 
`` Maggie , '' he said , again stretching out his hand to take the unresisting one which lay upon her lap , `` you need not make me other answer save that so plainly written on your face . 
At this moment Madam Conway appeared , and fearing her inability to control her feelings longer , Maggie precipitately left the room . 
Going to her chamber , she burst into a passionate fit of weeping , one moment blaming Mr. Carrollton for having learned her secret , and the next chiding herself for wishing to withhold from him a knowledge of her engagement . 
`` It is not that I love Henry less , I am sure , '' she thought , and laying her head upon her pillow , she recalled everything which had passed between herself and her affianced husband , trying to bring back the olden happiness with which she had listened to his words of love . 
But it would not come ; there was a barrier in the way , Arthur Carrollton as he looked when he said so sadly , `` You need not tell me , Maggie . '' 
`` Oh , I wish he had not asked me that question , '' she sighed . 
And yet I love Henry as well as ever ; I know I do , I am sure of it , or if I do not , I will , '' and repeating to herself again and again the words , `` I will , I will , '' she fell asleep . 
Will , however , is not always subservient to one 's wishes , and during the first few days succeeding the incident of that night , Maggie often found herself wishing Arthur Carrollton had never come to Hillsdale , he made her so wretched , so unhappy . 
Insensibly , too , she became a very little unamiable , speaking pettishly to her grandmother , disrespectfully to Mrs Jeffrey , haughtily to Anna , and rarely to Mr. Carrollton , who , after the lapse of two or three weeks , began to talk of returning home in the same vessel with Anna Jeffrey , at which time his health would be fully restored . 
Then , indeed , did Maggie awake to the reality that while her hand was plighted to one , she loved another -- not as in days gone by she had loved Henry Warner , but with a deeper , more absorbing love . 
With this knowledge , too , there came the thought that Arthur Carrollton had once loved her , and but for the engagement now so much regretted , he would ere this have told her so . 
But it was too late , too late.He would never feel toward her again as he once had felt , and bitter tears she shed as she contemplated the fast coming future , when Arthur Carrollton would be gone , or shudderingly thought of the time when Henry Warner would return to claim her promise . 
`` I can not , can not marry him , '' she cried , `` until I 've torn that other image from my heart , '' and then for many days she strove to recall the olden love in vain ; for , planted on the sandy soil of childhood , as it were , it had been out-grown , and would never again spring into life . 
`` I will write to him exactly how it is , '' she said at last ; `` will tell him that the affection I felt for him , could not have been what a wife should feel for her husband . 
Maggie was very calm when this decision was reached , and opening her writing desk she wrote just as she said she would , begging of him to forgive her if she had done him wrong , and beseeching Rose to comfort him as only a sister like her could do . 
The letter was finished , and then Maggie took it to her grandmother , who read it eagerly , for in it she saw a fulfillment of her wishes . 
Very closely had she watched both Mr. Carrollton and Maggie , readily divining the truth , that something was wrong between them . 
But from past experience , she deemed it wiser not to interfere directly . 
Mr. Carrollton 's avowed intention of returning to England , however , startled her , and she was revolving some method of procedure when Margaret brought to her the letter . 
But what has changed you , Maggie ? 
A little skillful questioning on Madam Conway 's part , sufficed to explain the whole -- how constant association with Arthur Carrollton had won for him a place in Maggie 's heart , which Henry Warner had never filled ; how the knowledge that she loved him as she could love no other one had faintly revealed itself to her , on the night when he asked if she were engaged , and had burst upon her with overwhelming power , when she heard that he was going home . 
`` He will never think of me again , I know , '' she said ; `` but , with my present feelings , I can not marry Henry , unless he insists upon it . '' 
Mr. Carrollton made her no direct reply , and she continued her breakfast in no very amiable mood ; while Maggie , too much overjoyed to eat , managed , ere long , to find an excuse for leaving the table . 
Mr. Carrollton wished to do everything honorably , and so he decided to say nothing to Mag of the cause of this sudden change in his plan , until Henry Warner 's answer was received , as she would then feel freer to act as she felt . 
His resolution , however , was more easily made than kept , and during the succeeding weeks , by actions , if not by words , he more than once told Maggie Miller how much she was beloved ; and Maggie , trembling with fear lest the cup of happiness just within her grasp should be rudely dashed aside , waited impatiently for the letter which was to set her free . 
But weeks went by , and Maggie 's heart grew sick with hope deferred , for there came to her no message from the distant Cuban shore , where , in another chapter , we will for a moment go . 
`` Maggie will comfort you when I am gone She will talk to you of me , standing at my grave , for , Henry , you must not leave me here alone . 
`` Had I known it sooner , '' he thought , `` known it before I met the peerless Mag , I might have taken Rose to my bosom and loved her , it may be , with a deeper love than that I feel for Maggie Miller , for Rose is everything to me . 
She has made and keeps me what I am , and how can I let her die , when I have the power to save her ? '' 
She was not his sisternow -- the veil was torn away -- a new feeling had been awakened , and as days and weeks went by there gradually crept in between him and Maggie Miller a new love -- even a love for the fair-haired Rose , to whom he was kinder , if possible , than he had been before , though he seldom kissed her lips , or caressed her in any way . 
`` It would be wrong , '' he said , `` a wrong to himself -- a wrong to her -- and a wrong to Maggie Miller , to whom his troth was plighted , '' and he did not wish it otherwise , he thought ; though insensibly there came over him a wish that Maggie herself might weary of the engagement , and seek to break it . 
In this manner time passed on , until at last there came to him Maggie 's letter which had been a long time on the sea . 
Of Arthur Carrollton no mention had been made , but he readily guessed the truth ; and thinking `` it is well , '' he laid the letter aside and went back to Rose , deciding to say nothing to her then . 
So a week went by , and again , as he had often done before , he sat with her alone in the stilly night , watched her as she slept , and thinking how beautiful she was , with her golden hair shading her childish face , her long eyelashes resting on her cheek , and her little hands folded meekly upon her bosom . 
`` She is too beautiful to die , '' he murmured , pressing a kiss upon her lips . 
This act awoke her , and turning towards him she said , `` Was I dreaming , Henry , or did you kiss me as you used to do ? '' 
`` Not dreaming , Rose , '' he answered -- then rather hurriedly he added , `` I have a letter from Maggie Miller , and ere I answer it , I would read it to you . 
`` Yes , yes , '' she whispered faintly , `` read it to me , Henry ; '' and turning her face away , she listened , while he read that Maggie Miller , grown weary of her troth , asked a release from her engagement . 
But for a time she did not speak . 
All hope for herself had long since died away , and now she experienced only sorrow for Henry 's disappointment . 
`` My poor brother , '' she said at last , turning her face towards him and taking his hand in hers ; `` I am sorry for you -- to lose us both , Maggie and me . 
`` Rose , '' he said , bending so low that his brown locks mingled with the yellow tresses of her hair , `` Rose , I do not regret Maggie Miller 's decision , neither do I blame her for it . 
She is a noble , true-hearted girl , and so long as I live I shall esteem her highly ; but I , too , have changed -- have learned to love another . 
The white lids closed wearily over the eyes of blue , but they could not keep back the tears which rolled down her face , as she answered somewhat sadly , `` Who is it , Henry ? '' 
There was another moment of silence , and then he whispered in her ear , `` People call her Rose ; Ionce called her sister ; but my heart now claims her for something nearer . 
But as the dew of heaven is to the parched and dying flower , so were these words of love to her , imparting at once new life and strength , making her as it were another creature . 
The question asked that night so unexpectedly , was answered at last ; and then with almost perfect happiness at her heart , she , too , added a few lines to the letter which Henry sent to Maggie Miller , over whose pathway , hitherto so bright , a fearful shadow was falling . 
Itwas a rainy April day -- a day which precluded all out-door exercise , and Hagar Warren , from the window of her lonely cabin , watched in vain for the coming of Maggie Miller . 
It was now more than a week since she had been there , for both Arthur Carrollton and herself had accompanied the disappointed Anna Jeffrey to New York , going with her on board the vessel which was to take her from a country she so affected to dislike . 
`` I dare say you 'll be Maggie somebody elseere I meet you again , '' she said to Maggie , at parting , and Mr. Carrollton , on her journey home , found it hard to keep from asking her if for the `` somebody else , '' she would substitute his name and so be `` Maggie Carrollton . '' 
This , however , he did not do ; but his attentions were so marked , and his manner toward her so affectionate , that ere Hillsdale was reached , there was in Maggie 's mind no longer a doubt as to the nature of his feelings toward her . 
Arrived at home , he kept her constantly at his side , while Hagar , who was suffering from a slight attack of rheumatism , and could not go up to the stone house , waited and watched , thinking herself almost willing to be teased for the secret , if she could once more hear the sound of Maggie 's voice . 
The secret , however , had been forgotten in the exciting scenes , through which Maggie had passed since first she learned of its existence ; and it was now a long , long time since she had mentioned it to Hagar , who each day grew more and more determined never to reveal it . 
`` My life is almost ended , '' she thought , `` and the secret shall go with me to my grave . 
Thus she reasoned on that rainy afternoon , when she sat waiting for Maggie , who , she heard , had returned the day before . 
This fear not even the flickering flame of the lamp , which she lighted at last , and placed upon the mantel , was able to dispel , for the shadows grew darker , folding themselves around her heart , until she covered her eyes with her hands , lest some goblin shape should spring into life before her . 
The sound of the gate latch was heard , and footsteps were approaching the door ; not the bounding step of Maggie , but a tramping tread , followed by a heavy knock , and the next moment a tall , large man appeared before her , asking shelter for the night . 
The pack he carried showed him at once to be a peddler , and upon a nearer view , Hagar recognized in him a stranger who , years before , had craved her hospitality . 
He had been civil to her then ; she did not fear him now , and she consented to his remaining , thinking his presence there might dispel the mysterious terror hanging around her . 
But few words passed between them that night , for Martin , as he called himself , was tired , and after partaking of the supper she prepared , he retired to rest . 
The next morning , however , he was more talkative , kindly enlightening her with regard to his business , his family and his place of residence , which last he said was in Meriden , Connecticut . 
It was a long time since Hagar had heard that name , and now , turning quickly towards him , she said , `` Meriden?That is where my Hester lived , and where her husband died . '' 
`` Yes , she was my daughter , '' answered Hagar , her whole face glowing with the interest she felt , in talking for the first time in her life with one who had known her daughter 's husband , Maggie 's father . 
she continued ; and Martin answered , `` Seen her a hundred times , I 'll bet . 
interrupted old Hagar , the nameless terror of the night before creeping again into her heart . 
`` The hull on 'em , boy , girl and all , is called Warner , now -- one Rose , and t ` other Henry , '' answered the peddler , perfectly delighted with the interest manifested by his auditor , who , grasping at the bedpost and moving her hand rapidly before her eyes , as if to clear away a mist which had settled there , continued , `` I remember now Hester told me of the children ; but one , she said , was a step-child , that was the boy , was n't it ? '' 
and her wild , black eyes had in them a look of unutterable anxiety , wholly incomprehensible to the peddler , who , instead of answering her question said , `` What ails you woman ? 
`` Thinking of Hester always affects me so , '' she answered ; and stretching her hands beseechingly towards him , she entreated him to say if Henry were not the step-child . 
he continued , alarmed at the expression of Hagar 's face , as well as at the strangeness of her manner . 
Wringing her hands as if she would wrench her fingers from their sockets , she clutched at her long white hair , and rocking to and fro , moaned `` woe is me , and woe the day when I was born . '' 
From every one save her grandmother , Margaret had kept the knowledge of her changed feelings towards Henry Warner ; and looking upon a marriage between the two as an event surely expected , old Hagar was overwhelmed with grief and fear . 
For myself , I do not care ; but Maggie , Maggie , how can I tell her that she is bone of mybone , blood of myblood , flesh of myflesh -- and me , old Hagar Warren ! '' 
Then , as she reflected upon the terrible consequence which would ensue were she to die and make no sign , she wrung her hands despairingly , crying , `` Life , life , yes , give me life to tell her of my guilt ; and then it will be a blessed rest to die . 
Oh , Margaret , my precious child , I 'd give my heart 's blood , drop by drop , to save you ; but it ca n't be ; you must not wed your father 's son ; oh , Maggie , Maggie , Maggie ! '' 
She knew that full well , and as the sun fast neared the western horizon , she murmured , `` Oh , willshe come to-night , will she come to-night ? '' 
The half-way rock is reached -- nearer and nearer she comes -- her shadow falls across the floor -- her hand is on your arm -- her voice is in your ear -- Maggie Miller is at your side -- Heaven help you both ! 
exclaimed Mag , playfully bounding to her side , and laying her hand upon her arm ; `` What aileth thee , Hagar ? '' 
The words were mete , for never Hagar in the desert , thirsting for the gushing fountain , suffered more than did she who sat with covered face and made no word of answer . 
Maggie was unusually happy that day , for but a few hours before she had received Henry 's letter , making her free -- free to love Arthur Carrollton , who she well knew only waited a favorable opportunity to tell her his love ; so with a heart full of happiness she had stolen away to visit Hagar , reproaching herself as she came for having neglected her so long . 
`` But I 'll make amends , by telling her what I 'm sure she must have guessed , '' she thought , as she entered the cottage , where , to her surprise , she found her weeping . 
Thinking the old woman 's distress might possibly be occasioned by her neglect , she spoke again -- `` Are you crying for me , Hagar ? '' 
`` Yes , Maggie Miller , for you -- for you ! '' 
answered Hagar , lifting up a face so ghastly white , that Maggie started back in some alarm . 
`` Poor Hagar , you are ill , '' she said , and advancing nearer she wound her arms around the trembling form , and pillowing the snowy head upon her bosom , continued soothingly , `` I did not mean to stay away so long . 
For a moment Hagar let her head repose upon the bosom of her child , then murmuring softly , `` it will never lie there again , '' she arose , and , confronting Maggie , said , `` Is it love which makes you so happy ? '' 
I must tell her , '' whispered Hagar ; while Maggie asked , `` Tell me what ? '' 
For a moment the wild eyes fastened themselves upon her with a look of yearning anguish , and then Hagar answered slowly , `` Tell you what you 've often wished to know -- my secret ! '' 
the last word dropping from her lips more like a warning hiss than like a human sound . 
It was long since Mag had teased for the secret , so absorbed had she been in other matters , but now that there was a prospect of knowing it , her curiosity was reawakened , and while her eyes glistened with expectation , she said , `` Yes , tell it to me , Hagar , and then I 'll tell you mine ; '' and all over her beautiful face there shone a joyous light as she thought how Hagar , who had once pronounced Henry Warner unworthy , would rejoice in her new love . 
`` Not here , Maggie -- not here in this room can I tell you , '' said old Hagar ; `` but out in the open air , where my breath will come more freely ; '' and leading the way , she hobbled to the mossy bank , where Mag had sat with Arthur Carrollton on the morning of his departure for Montreal . 
Here she sat down , while Maggie threw herself upon the damp ground at her feet , her face lighted with eager curiosity , and her lustrous eyes bright as stars with the excitement . 
For a moment Hagar bent forward , and folding her hands one above the other , laid them upon the head of the young girl as if to gather strength for what she was to say . 
`` It must be something terrible to affect her so , '' thought Mag , and taking the bony hands between her own , she said , `` I would not tell it , Hagar ; I do not wish to hear . '' 
The voice aroused the half-fainting woman , and withdrawing her hand from Maggie 's grasp , she replied , `` Turn away your face , Margaret Miller , so I can not see the hatred settling over it , when I tell you what I must . '' 
`` Maggie , Maggie , '' began the poor old woman , lingering long and lovingly over that dear name , `` nineteen years ago , next December , I took upon my soul the secret sin which has worn my life away , but I did it for the love I had for you . 
I had you both in my room the night after Hester died ; and the devil -- Maggie , do you know how the devil willcreep into the heart , and whisper , whispertill the brain is all on fire ? 
This thing he did to me , Maggie , nineteen years ago , he whispered -- whispered dreadful things , and his whisperings were of you . '' 
Hagar , '' exclaimed Maggie . 
`` If I had but left him then , this hour would never have come to me ; but I listened , and when he told me that a handsome , healthy child , would be more acceptable to the Conways than a weakly , fretful one -- when he said that Hagar Warren 's grandchild had far better be a lady than a drudge -- that no one would ever know it , for none had noticed either -- I did it , Maggie Miller ; I took you from the pine board cradle , where you lay -- I dressed you in the other baby 's clothes -- I laid you on her pillow -- I wrapped her in your coarse white frock -- I said that she was mine , and Margaret -- oh Heaven ! 
There was no need for Maggie Miller to answer that appeal . 
The words had burned into her soul -- scorching her very life-blood , and maddening her brain . 
It was a fearful blow -- crushing her at once . 
She saw it all , understood it all , and knew there was no hope . 
The family pride , at which she had often laughed , was strong within her and could not at once be rooted out . 
She could not own that half-crazed woman for her grandmother ! 
As Hagar talked , she had risen to her feet , and now , tall and erect as the mountain ash which grew on her native hills , she stood before her , every vestige of color faded from her face , her eyes dark as midnight and glowing like coals of living fire , while her hands , locked despairingly together , moved slowly towards Hagar , as if to thrust her aside . 
`` Oh , speak again , '' she said , `` but not the dreadful words you said to me just now . 
Tell me they are false -- say that my father perished in the storm , that my mother was she who held me on her bosom when she died -- that I -- oh , Hagar , I am not -- I will not be the creature you say I am.Speak to me , '' she continued , `` tell me , is it true ? '' 
and in her voice there was not the olden sound . 
Hoarse -- hollow -- full of reproachful anguish it seemed , and bowing her head in very shame , old Hagar made her answer : `` Would to heaven ` twere not true -- but 't is -- it is ! 
Kill me , Maggie , '' she continued , `` strike me dead , if you will , but take your eyes away . 
But not of Hagar Warren was Maggie thinking then . 
The past , the present , and the future were all embodied in her thoughts . 
She had been an intruder all her life ; had ruled with a high hand people on whom she had no claim , and who , had they known her parentage , would have spurned her from them . 
Theo , whom she had held in her arms so oft , calling her sister and loving her as such , was hers no longer ; nor yet the found woman who had cherished her so tenderly -- neither were hers ; and in fancy she saw the look of scorn upon that woman 's face , when she should hear the tale , for it mustbe told , and shemust tell it too . 
She would not be an impostor ; and then there flashed upon her the agonizing thought , before which all else seemed as naught -- in the proud heart of Arthur Carrollton was there a place for Hagar Warren 's grandchild ? 
she moaned ; and the next moment she lay at Hagar 's feet , white , rigid and insensible . 
`` She 's dead ! '' 
cried Hagar ; and for one brief instant she hoped that it was so . 
`` There may be some mistake , '' she whispered ; but Hagar answered , `` there is none ; '' at the same time relating so minutely the particulars of the deception , that Maggie was convinced , and covering her face with her hands , sobbed aloud , while Hagar , sitting by in silence , was nerving herself to tell the rest . 
The sun had set , and the twilight shadows were stealing down upon them , when creeping abjectly upon her knees towards the wretched girl , she said , `` There is more , Maggie , more -- I have not told you all . '' 
But Maggie had heard enough , and exerting all her strength , she sprang to her feet , while Hagar clutched eagerly at her dress , which was wrested from her grasp , as Maggie fled away -- away -- she knew not , cared not whither , so that she were beyond the reach of the trembling voice , which called after her to return . 
Alone in the deep woods , with the darkness falling around her , she gave way to the mighty sorrow which had come so suddenly upon her . 
She could not doubt what she had heard . 
She knew that it was true , and as proof after proof crowded upon her , until the chain of evidence was complete , she laid her head upon the rain-wet grass , and shudderingly stopped her ears , to shut out , if possible , the memory of the dreadful words , `` I , the shrivelled , skinny hag , who tells you this , am your own grandmother . '' 
For a long time she lay there thus , weeping till the fountain of her tears seemed dry ; then weary , faint , and sick , she started for her home . 
Opening cautiously the outer door , she was gliding up the stairs , when Madam Conway , entering the hall with a lamp , discovered her , and uttered an exclamation of surprise at the strangeness of her appearance . 
`` Something dreadful came to me in the woods , '' said Maggie , `` but I ca n't tell you to-night . 
To-morrow I shall be better -- or dead -- oh , I wish I could be dead -- before you hate me so ; dear grand -- No I did n't mean that -- you ai n't ; forgive me , do , '' and sinking to the floor , she kissed the very hem of Madam Conway 's dress . 
A faint cry was Maggie 's only answer , and taking the lady 's hand , she laid it upon her forehead , where the drops of perspiration were standing thickly . 
Maggie had been terribly excited , and when next morning she awoke , she was parched with burning fever , while her mind at intervals seemed wandering ; and ere two days were passed , she was raving with delirium , brought on , the physician said , by some sudden shock , the nature of which no one could even guess . 
For three weeks she hovered between life and death , whispering oft of the `` horrid shape which had met her in the woods , robbing her of happiness and life . '' 
Winding her feeble arms around Madam Conway 's neck , she would beg of her most piteously `` not to cast her off -- not to send her away from the only home she had ever known -- for I could n't help it , '' she would say . 
Theo , too , was summoned home , but at her Maggie at first refused to look , and covering her eyes with her hand she whispered scornfully , `` pinchedand blue , and pale ; that 's the very look . 
Then her mood would change , and motioning Theo to her side , she would say to her , `` Kiss me once , Theo , just as you used to do when I was Maggie Miller . '' 
`` He hated her , '' she said , `` hated her for what she could not help ; '' and when , as he often did , he came to her bedside , speaking to her words of love , she would answer mournfully , `` Do n't , Mr. Carrollton ; your pride is stronger than your love . 
`` She is confined to her bed with inflammatory rheumatism , '' answered Madam Conway , `` but she inquires for you every day , they say ; and once when told you could not live , she started to crawl on her hands and knees to see you , but fainted near the gate and was carried back . '' 
murmured Maggie , the tears rolling down her cheeks , as she thought how strong must be the love that half crazed creature bore her , and how little it was returned , for every feeling of her nature revolted from claiming a near relationship with one whom she had hitherto regarded as a servant . 
So Theo went back to Worcester as mystified as ever , and Maggie was left much alone with Arthur Carrollton , who strove in various ways to win her from the melancholy into which she had fallen . 
All day long she would sit by the open window , seemingly immovable , her large eyes , now intensely black , fixed upon vacancy , and her white face giving no sign of the fierce struggle within , save when Madam Conway , coming to her side , would lay her hand caressingly on her in token of sympathy . 
Will Maggie answer me ? '' 
But Margaret did not know him , and when he said again , `` will Maggie answer me ? '' 
`` Do n't you love me , Maggie ? '' 
Mr. Carrollton said , and in the tones of his voice there was so much of tenderness that Maggie burst into tears , and involuntarily resting her head upon his bosom , answered sadly , `` I love you so much , Arthur Carrollton , that I would die a hundred deaths could that make me worthy of you , as not long ago I thought I was . 
Let me share your sorrow , '' he said ; but Maggie only answered , `` Not yet , not yet . 
This was all the satisfaction he could obtain ; but after a time she promised that if he would not mention the subject to her until the first of June , she would then tell him everything ; and satisfied with a promise which he knew would be kept , Mr. Carrollton waited impatiently for the appointed time , while Maggie , too , counted each sun as it rose and set , bringing nearer and nearer a trial she so much dreaded . 
Twodays only remained ere the first of June , and in the solitude of her chamber , Maggie was weeping bitterly . 
she thought . 
`` How bear their pitying scorn , when they learn that she whom they call Maggie Miller has no right to that name ? 
-- that Hagar Warren 's blood is flowing in her veins -- and Madam Conway thinks so much of that ! 
and falling on her knees the wretched girl prayed that it might prove a dream , from which she would ere long awake . 
Alas for thee , poor Maggie Miller ! 
And yet it was not the degradation which Maggie felt so keenly , it was rather the loss of love she feared ; and without that , the blood of royalty could not avail to make her happy . 
Maggie was a warm-hearted girl , and she loved the stately lady she had been wont to call her grandmother , with a filial , clinging love , which could not be severed , and still this love was naught compared to what she felt for Arthur Carrollton , and the giving up of him was the hardest part of all . 
But it must be done , she thought ; he had told her once that were she Hagar Warren 's grandchild , he should not be riding with her -- how much less then would he make that child his wife!and rather than meet the look of proud disdain his face would wear , when first she stood confessed before him , she resolved to go away where no one had ever heard of her or Hagar Warren . 
She would leave behind a letter telling why she went , and commending to Madam Conway 's care poor Hagar , who had been sorely punished for her sin . 
It was a rambling , impassioned letter , full of tender love -- of hope destroyed -- of deep despair -- and though it shadowed forth no expectation that Madam Conway or Mr. Carrollton would ever take her to their hearts again , it begged of them most touchingly to think sometimes of `` Maggie , '' when she was gone forever . 
`` She is old , '' wrote Maggie , `` her life is nearly ended , and if you have in your heart one feeling of pity for her , who used to call you grandma , bestow it , I pray you , on poor old Hagar Warren . '' 
The letter was finished , and then suddenly remembering Hagar 's words , that `` all had not been told , '' and feeling it her duty to see once more the woman who had brought her so much sorrow , Maggie stole cautiously from the house , and was soon walking down the woodland road , slowly , sadly , for the world had changed to her since last she trod that path . 
Maggie , too , was changed , and when at last she stood before Hagar , who was now able to sit up , the latter could scarcely recognize in the pale , haggard woman , the blooming , merry-hearted girl , once known as Maggie Miller . 
`` Margaret , '' she cried , `` you have come again -- come to forgive your poor old grand -- No , no , '' she added , as she saw the look of pain flash over Maggie 's face , `` I 'll never insult you with that name.Only say that you forgive , me , will you , Miss Margaret ? '' 
Exposure to the damp air on that memorable night had brought on a second severe attack of rheumatism , which had bent her nearly double . 
Touched with pity , Maggie drew a chair to her side , and thus replied , `` I do forgive you , Hagar , for I know that what you did was done in love ; but by telling me what you have , you 've ruined all my hopes of happiness . 
In the new scenes to which I go , and the new associations I shall form , I may become contented with my lot , but never can I forget that I once was Maggie Miller . '' 
`` Margaret , '' gasped Hagar , and in her dim eye there was something of its olden fire , `` if by new associations you mean Henry Warner , it must not be . 
Maggie understood perfectly now why the secret had been revealed , and involuntarily she exclaimed , `` Oh , had I told you first , this never need have been ; '' and then hurriedly she explained to the repentant Hagar how at the very moment when the dread confession was made , she , Maggie Miller , was free from Henry Warner . 
From the window Maggie saw in the distance the servant who had charge of Hagar , and dreading the presence of a third person , she arose to go . 
Offering her hand to Hagar she said , `` Good bye . 
`` You are not going away , Maggie . 
and the crippled arms were stretched imploringly towards Maggie , who answered , `` Yes , Hagar , I must go . 
Three times old Hagar essayed to speak , and at last , between a whisper and a moan , she found strength to say , `` Will you kiss me once , Maggie darling ? 
Just once , Maggie . 
Maggie could not refuse , and gliding to the bowed woman 's side , she put back the soft hair from off the wrinkled brow , and left there token of her forgiveness . 
The last May sun had set , and ere the first June morning rose Maggie Miller would be nowhere found in the home her presence had made so bright . 
Alone , with no eye upon her save that of the Most High , she had visited the two graves , and while her heart was bleeding at every pore , had wept her last adieu over the sleeping dust so long held sacred as her mother 's . 
Then kneeling at the other grave , she murmured , `` Forgive me , Hester Hamilton , if in this parting hour my heart clings most to her whose memory I was first taught to revere ; and if in the better world you know and love each other , oh , will both bless and pity me , poor , wretched Maggie Miller ! '' 
Softly the night air moved through the musical pine overshadowing the humble grave , while the moonlight , flashing from the tall marble , which stood a sentinel over the other mound , bathed Maggie 's upturned face as with a flood of glory , and her throbbing heart grew still as if indeed at that hushed moment the two mothers had come to bless their child . 
`` He will come to me by and by , '' thought Maggie , but he did not , and when Worcester was reached , she was still debtor to the Boston & Albany Railroad for the sum of seventy cents . 
Bewildered and uncertain what to do next , she stepped upon the platform , deciding finally to remain at the depot until morning , when a train would leave for Leominster , where she confidently expected to find her brother . 
Taking a seat in the ladies ' room , she abandoned herself to her sorrow , wondering what Theo would say could she see her then . 
But Theo , though dreaming it may be of Maggie , dreamed not that she was near , and so the night wore on , Margaret sleeping towards daylight , and dreaming , too , of Arthur Carrollton , who she thought had followed her -- nay , was bending over her now and whispering in her ear , `` Wake , Maggie , wake . '' 
Starting up , she glanced anxiously around , uttering a faint cry when she saw that it was not Arthur Carrollton , but a dark , rough-looking stranger , who rather rudely asked `` where she wished to go ? '' 
But Maggie preferred going at once to the Fitchburg depot , which she accordingly did , and drawing her veil over her face , lest some one of her few acquaintances in the city should recognize her , she sat there until the time appointed for the cars to leave . 
Then , weary and faint , she entered the train , her spirits in a measure rising as she felt that she was , drawing near to those who would love her for what she was and not for what she had been . 
Rosewould comfort her , and already her heart bounded with the thought of seeing one whom she believed to be her brother 's wife , for Henry had written that ere this his homeward voyage was made , Rose would be his bride . 
Ah , Maggie ! 
And even at this early hour , her snow white fingers are arranging the fair June blossoms into bouquets , with which she adorns her house , saying to him who hovers at her side , `` that somebody , she knows not whom , is surely coming there to-day ; '' and then , with a blush stealing over her cheek , she adds : `` I wish it might be Margaret ; '' while Henry , with a peculiar twist of his comical mouth , winds his arm around her waist , and playfully responds , `` Any one save her . '' 
He had heard of Maggie 's illness , but she was better now , he supposed , and when Theo hinted vaguely that a marriage between her and Arthur Carrollton was not at all improbable , he hoped it would be so , for the Englishman , he knew , was far better adapted to Margaret than he had ever been . 
Everything around it betokened the fine taste of its occupants , and Maggie , as she reflected that she , too , was nearly connected with this family , felt her wounded pride in a measure soothed , for it was surely no disgrace to claim such people as her friends . 
With a beating heart , she rang the bell , asking for Mr. Warner , and now , trembling in every limb , she awaited his coming . 
He was not prepared to meet her , and at first he did not know her , she was so changed ; but when , throwing aside her bonnet , she turned her face so the light from the window opposite shone fully upon her , he recognized her in a moment , and exclaimed , `` Margaret , Margaret Miller ! 
The words reached Rose 's ear , and darting forward , she stood within the door , just as Margaret , staggering a step or two towards Henry , answered passionately , `` I have come to tell you what I myself but recently have learned ; '' and wringing her hands despairingly , she continued , `` I am not Maggie Miller , I am not anybody , I am Hagar Warren 's grandchild , the offspring of her daughter and your own father ! 
Bewildered and perplexed , Margaret began a hasty repetition of Hagar 's story , but ere it was three-fourths told , there came from the open door a wild cry of delight , and quick as lightning , a fairy form flew across the floor , white arms were twined round Maggie 's neck , kiss after kiss was pressed upon her lips , and Rose 's voice was in her ear , never before half so sweet as now , when it murmured soft and low to the weary girl , My sister Maggie -- mine you are -- the child of my own father , for I was Rose Hamilton , called Warner , first to please my aunt , and next to please my Henry . 
Oh , Maggie darling , I am so happy now ; '' and the little snowy hands smoothed caressingly the bands of hair , so unlike her own fair waving tresses . 
`` You must have rest , and then I will bring to you my aunt , our aunt , Maggie -- our father 's sister . 
She has been a mother to me . 
She will be one to you . 
Maggie followed her with swimming eyes , then turning to Henry , she said . 
`` Yes , very , '' he answered , coming to her side . 
But the olden feeling was gone , and Maggie could now meet his glance without a blush , while he could talk with her as calmly as if she had never been aught to him save the sister of his wife . 
After a time , Rose returned , bearing a silver tray heaped with the most tempting viands ; but Maggie 's heart was too full to eat , and after drinking a cup of the fragrant black tea , which Rose herself had made , she laid her head upon the pillow , which Henry brought , and with Rose sitting by , holding lovingly her hand , she fell into a quiet slumber . 
For several hours she slept , and when she awoke at last , the sun was shining in at the western window , casting over the floor a glimmering light , and reminding her so forcibly of the dancing shadows on the grass which grew around the old stone house , that her eyes filled with tears , and thinking herself alone , she murmured , `` Will it never be my home again ? '' 
A sudden movement , the rustling of a dress startled her , and lifting up her head , she saw standing near , a pleasant-looking , middle aged woman , who , she rightly guessed , was Mrs. Warner , her own aunt . 
`` Maggie , '' the lady said , laying her hand on the fevered brow , `` I have heard a strange tale to-day . 
There is room in my heart for you , Maggie Miller , room for the youngest born of my only brother . 
Mrs. Warner had seen much of the world , and Maggie knew her to be a woman of refinement , a woman of whom even Madam Conway would not be ashamed ; and winding her arms around her neck , she said impulsively , `` I am glad youare my aunt , and you will love me , I am sure , even if I am poor Hagar 's grandchild . '' 
Of Hagar , too , she spoke kindly , considerately , and Maggie , listening to her , felt somewhat reconciled to the fate which had made her what she was . 
Still , there was much of pride to overcome ere she could calmly think of herself as other than Madam Conway 's grandchild ; and when that afternoon , as Henry and Rose were sitting with her , the latter spoke of her mother , saying she had a faint remembrance of a tall , handsome girl , who sang her to sleep on the night when her own mother died , there came a visible shadow over Maggie 's face , and instantly changing the conversation , she asked why Henry had never told her anything definite concerning himself and family . 
Very considerate was Rose of Maggie 's feelings , and not again that afternoon did she speak of Hester , though she talked much of their father ; and Margaret , listening to his praises , felt herself insensibly drawn towards this new claimant for her filial love . 
She would tell him where Mag was gone , and he , if his love could survive that shock , would follow her thither ; nay , would be there that very day , and Maggie 's heart grew wearier , fainter , as time wore on and he did not come . 
`` I might have known it , '' she whispered sadly . 
`` I did know that he would never more think of me , '' and she wept silently over her ruined love . 
`` Maggie , sister , '' came to her ear , and Rose was at her side . 
Oh , how eagerly poor Maggie Miller looked up in Rose 's face . 
Did he love her still?No , Maggie , no , the surprise awaiting you is of a far different nature , and the tears flow afresh when Rose , in reply to the question , `` what is it , darling ? '' 
answers `` it is this , '' at the same time placing in Maggie 's hand an ambrotype which she bade her examine . 
With a feeling of keen disappointment , Maggie opened the casing , involuntarily shutting her eyes as if to gather strength for what she was to see . 
It was a young face -- a handsome face -- a face much like her own , while in the curve of the upper lip , and the expression of the large black eyes , there was a look like Hagar Warren . 
They had met together thus , the one a living reality , the other a semblance of the dead , and she who held that picture trembled violently . 
There was a fierce struggle within , the wildly beating heart throbbing for one moment with a new-born love , and then rebelling against taking that shadow , beautiful though it was , in place of her whose memory she had so long revered . 
`` Who is it , Maggie ? '' 
Rose asked , leaning over her shoulder . 
Maggie knew full well whose face it was she looked upon , but not yet could she speak that name so interwoven with memories of another , and she answered mournfully , `` it is Hester Hamilton . '' 
Maggie asked ; and , coloring crimson , Rose replied , `` We have always had her portrait , but grandmother , who was very old and foolishly proud about some things , was offended at our father 's last marriage , and when after his death the portraits were brought here , she -- forgive her , Maggie -- she did not know you , or she would not have done it '' -- `` I know , '' interrupted Maggie . 
`` She despisedthis Hester Warren , and consigned her portrait to some spot from which you have brought it and had this taken from it . '' 
`` Not despised her , '' cried Rose , in great distress , as she saw a dark expression stealing over the face of Maggie , in whose heart a chord of sympathy had been struck , when she thought of her motherbanished from her father 's side . 
`` Yes , she was beautiful , '' murmured Maggie , gazing earnestly upon the fair , round face , the soft , black eyes and raven hair of her who for years had slept beneath the shadow of the Hillsdale woods . 
`` Oh , I wish I was dead like her , '' she exclaimed at last , closing the ambrotype , and laying it upon the table . 
`` I wish I was lying in that little grave in the place of her who should have borne my name , and been what I once was ; '' and bowing her face upon her hands she wept bitterly , while Rose tried in vain to comfort her . 
He will follow you , too -- not to-day , perhaps , nor to-morrow , but ere long he will surely come ; '' and listening to her sister 's cheering words , Maggie herself grew hopeful , and that evening talked animatedly with Henry and Rose of a trip to the sea-side they were intending to make . 
`` You will go , too , Maggie , '' said Rose , caressing her sister 's pale cheek , and whispering in her ear , `` Aunt Susan will be here to tell Mr. Carrollton where you are , if he does not come before we go , which I am sure he will . '' 
Maggie tried to think so , too , and her sleep that night was sweeter than it had been before for many weeks -- but the next day came , and the next , and Maggie 's eyes grew dim with watching and with tears , for up and down the road , as far as she could see , there came no trace of him for whom she waited . '' 
`` I might have known it ; it was foolish for me to think otherwise , '' she sighed , and turning sadly from the window where all the afternoon she had been sitting , she laid her head wearily upon the lap of Rose . 
`` Maggie , '' said Henry , `` I am going to Worcester to-morrow , and perhaps George can tell me something of Mr. Carrollton . '' 
For a moment Maggie 's heart throbbed with delight at the thought of hearing from him , even though she heard that he would leave her . 
But anon her pride rose strong within her . 
She had told Hagar twice of her destination , Hagar had told him , and if he chose he would have followed her ere this ; so somewhat bitterly she said , `` Do n't speak to George of me . 
The day seemed long to Maggie , and when at nightfall he came to them again , it was difficult to tell which was the more pleased at his return , Margaret or Rose . 
asked the former ; and Henry replied , `` George told me she had gone to Hillsdale . 
She 's sick with mourning for me , '' cried Maggie . 
Then the painful thought rushed over her , `` If she wished for me , she would send . 
They have cast me off -- grandma , Theo , all , all , '' and sinking upon the lounge , she wept aloud . 
`` Margaret , '' said Henry , coming to her side , `` but for my promise I should have talked to George of you , for there was a troubled expression on his face when he asked me if I had heard from Hillsdale . '' 
asked Maggie , holding her breath to catch the answer , which was , `` I told him you had not written to me since my return from Cuba , and then he looked as if he would say more , but a customer called him away , and our conversation was not resumed . '' 
For a moment Maggie was silent . 
Then she said , `` I am glad you did not intrude me upon him . 
and again burying her head in the cushions of the lounge , she wept bitterly . 
It was useless for Henry and Rose to try to comfort her , telling her it was possible that Hagar had told nothing ; `` And if so , '' said Henry , `` you well know that I am the last one to whom you would be expected to flee for protection . '' 
Thus the day wore on , and ere another week was gone , Rose insisted upon a speedy removal to the sea-shore , notwithstanding it was so early in the season , for by this means she hoped that Maggie 's health would be improved . 
Madam Conway , too , was unusually excited and very anxiously she listened for the first sound of Maggie 's footsteps on the stairs . 
`` She sleeps late , '' she thought , when breakfast was announced , and taking her accustomed , seat , she bade a servant `` see if Margaret were ill . '' 
Had she lain dead before him , dead in all her youthful beauty , he could have folded her in his arms , and then buried her from his sight , with a feeling of perfect happiness , compared to that which he now felt `` Oh , Maggie , my lost one , can it be ? '' 
Only a moment , though , and then the love he bore for Maggie Miller rolled back upon him with an overwhelming power , while his better judgment , with that love , came hand in hand , pleading for the fair young girl , who , now that he had lost her , seemed a thousand fold dearer than before . 
She was Maggie Miller still to him , and though old Hagar 's blood were in her veins , he would not give her up . 
Then as she thought of white-haired Hagar Warren , she raised her hand to curse her , but the words died on her lips , for Hagar 's deed had brought to her much joy ; and now , as she remembered the bounding step , the merry laugh , the sunny face , and loving words , which had made her later years so happy , she involuntarily stretched out her arms in empty air , moaning sadly , `` I want her here . 
I want her now , just as she used to be . '' 
`` I love her still , '' she cried , `` but can I take her back ? '' 
Are you willing to take poor Maggie back ? '' 
`` There was a moment the memory of which makes me ashamed , when my pride rebelled ; but it is over now , and though Maggie can not in reality be again your child , she can be my wife , and I must find her . '' 
`` I feared you would cast her off , and in that case it would have been my duty to do so too , though I never loved a human being , as at this moment I love her . '' 
It may be well , '' he continued , `` to say nothing to the servants as yet , save that Maggie has gone . 
As he approached the house , he saw the servant who for several weeks had been staying there , and who now came out to meet him , telling him that since the night before , Hagar had been raving crazy , talking continually of Maggie , who , she said , `` had gone where none would ever find her . '' 
`` Hagar , will you tell me where Maggie is ? 
I wish to follow her , '' said Mr. Carrollton ; and Hagar answered , `` Maggie , Maggie -- he said that lovingly enough , but there 's a catch somewhere . 
He does not wish to follow her for any good -- and though I know where she has gone , I 'll surely never tell . 
Mr. Carrollton promised compliance with her request , and then went immediately to the depot , where he learned that no one had entered the cars from that place on the previous night , and that Maggie , if she took the train at all , must have done so at some other station . 
This was not unlikely , and before the day was passed , Mr. Carrollton had visited several different stations , and had talked with the conductors of the several trains , but all to no purpose ; and very much disheartened , he returned at nightfall to the old stone house , where to his great surprise , he found both Theo and her husband . 
Then , indeed , her tears flowed , and when her husband whispered to her , `` We will love poor Maggie all the same , '' she cried aloud , but not quite as demoustratively as Madam Conway wished , and in a very unamiable frame of mind , the old lady accused her of being selfish and hard-hearted . 
In this stage of proceedings Mr. Carrollton returned , bringing no tidings of Maggie , whereupon another fit of hysteries ensued , and as Theo behaved much worse than Mrs. Jeffrey had done , the latter was finally summoned again to the sick room , where she had last succeeded in quieting the excited woman . 
Once , too , Madam Conway spoke of Henry Warner , saying it was possible Maggie might have gone to him , as she had thought so much of Rose ; but Mr. Carrollton `` knew better . '' 
Still the suggestion haunted him , and on the Monday following Henry Warner 's first visit to Worcester , he , too , went down to talk with Mr. Douglas , asking him , `` if it were possible that Maggie was in Leominster . '' 
`` I know she is not , '' said George , repeating the particulars of his interview with Henry , who , he said , was at the store on Saturday . 
`` Once I thought of telling him all , '' said he , `` and then considering the relations which formerly existed between them , I concluded to keep silent , especially as he manifested no desire to speak of her , but appeared , I fancied , quite uneasy when I casually mentioned Hillsdale . '' 
Thus was that matter decided , and while not many miles away , Maggie was watching hopelessly for the coming of Arthur Carrollton , he , with George Douglas , was devising the best means for finding her , George generously offering to assist in the search , and suggesting finally that he should himself go to New York city , while Mr. Carrollton explored Boston and its vicinity . 
`` She would not be there so far from home , '' he was sure of that , but he was coming for the sake of what he hoped and feared , when last he trod those streets . 
He paused and was about to move away , when a sudden breeze from the open window turned the remaining leaf , and his eye caught the name , not of Maggie Miller , but of `` Henry Warner , lady , and sister . '' 
Thoughts of Maggie Miller , however , were constantly in his mind , and whether waking or asleep , he saw always herface , sometimes radiant with healthful beauty , as when he first beheld her , and again , pale , troubled , and sad , as when he saw her last . 
The tripping footsteps , too , went often by , and a merry , childish voice , which reminded him of Maggie , rang through the spacious halls , until at last the sick man came to listen for that party as they passed . 
They were a merry party , he thought , a very merry party , and he pictured to himself her of the ringing voice ; she was dark eyed , he said , with braids of shining hair , and when , as they were passing once , he asked of his attendant if it were not as he had fancied , he felt a pang of disappointment at the answer which was , `` The girl the young gentleman hears so much , has yellow curls and dark blue eyes . '' 
`` She is not like Maggie , then , '' he sighed , and when again he heard that voice , a part of its music was gone . 
Here the weary often rest ; here lovers sometimes come to be alone ; and here Maggie Miller sat on that summer morning , living over again the past , which to her had been so bright , and musing sadly of the future , which would bring her she knew not what . 
She had struggled to overcome her pride , nor deemed it longer a disgrace that she was not a Conway . 
Of Hagar , too , she often thought , pitying the poor old half-crazed woman who for her sake had borne so much . 
But not of her was she thinking now . 
A little further on , and out of Maggie 's sight , a fairy figure was seated upon the grass ; the flat was thrown aside , and her curls fell back from her upturned face , as she spoke to Henry Warner . 
In a moment he had joined them , and though he knew that Henry Warner had once loved Maggie Miller , he spoke of her without reserve , saying to Rose , when she asked if he were there for pleasure , `` I am looking for Maggie Miller . 
`` She is here -- here with us , '' cried Rose ; and in the exuberance of her joy , she was darting away , when Henry held her back until further explanations were made . 
This did not occupy them long , for sitting down again upon the bank , Rose briefly told him all she knew ; and when with eager joy he asked `` where is she now ? '' 
she pointed towards the spot , and then with Henry walked away , for she knew that it was not for her to witness that glad meeting . 
It had come to her suddenly , sitting there thus -- the footfall upon the sand had not been heard -- the shadow upon the grass had not been seen , and his presence had not been felt , till bending low , Mr. Carrollton said aloud , `` My Maggie ! '' 
No more journeying now for happiness ; no more searching for the lost ; for both are found ; both are there -- happiness and Maggie Miller . 
And Margaret had gone away , she was sure of that , for she remembered Arthur Carrollton stood once within that room , and besought of her to tell if she knew aught of Maggie 's destination . 
exclaimed the latter , her pride returning as she recognized old Hagar , and thought , `` She is Maggie 's grandmother . 
`` I can easily understand how painful must have been the knowledge that Maggie was not your own , '' returned Mrs. Warner , for she is a girl of whom any one might be proud ; but you are laboring under a mistake -- Henry is not her brother , '' and then , very briefly she explained the matter to Madam Conway , who having heard so much , was now surprised at nothing , and who felt , it may be , a little gratified in knowing that Henry was , after all , nothing to Margaret , save the husband of her sister . 
`` Margaret was not there , '' and so loud were her lamentations , that some time elasped ere Mrs. Warner could make her listen , while she explained , that `` Mr. Carrollton had found Maggie the day previous , at the Falls , that they were probably in Albany now , and would reach Hillsdale that very day ; '' such at least was the import of the telegram which Mrs. Warner had received the evening before . 
`` They are coming at noon , '' answered the excited woman -- then , hurrying into the house , and throwing off her hood , she continued , `` He 's found her at the Falls ; they are between here and Albany now ; tell everybody to hurry as fast as they can ; tell Hannah to make a chicken pie -- Maggie was fond of that ; and turkey -- tell her to kill a turkey -- it 's Maggie 's favorite dish -- and ice cream , too ! 
Joyfully the servants told to each other the glad news , disbelieving entirely the report fast gaining circulation , that the queenly Maggie was lowly born -- a grandchild of old Hagar . 
Wearily went the half hour by , and then , from the head of the tower stairs , Theo cried out , `` She is coming ! '' 
`` Why do n't she come ? '' 
But the light touch upon her arm -- the well remembered voice within her ear , calling her `` Madam Conway , '' sent through her an electric thrill , and starting up she caught the wanderer in her arms , crying imploringly , `` Not that name , Maggie darling ; call me grandma , as you used to do -- call me grandma still , '' and smoothing back the long black tresses , she looked to see if grief had left its impress upon her fair young face . 
Maggie had never seen her thus before , and the worn-out , aged face , had something touching in its sad expression , and something startling , too , bidding her hasten , if to that woman she would speak . 
`` Hagar , '' she essayed to say , but the word died on her lips , for standing there alone , with the daylight fading from the earth , and the lifelight fading from the form before her , it seemed not meet that she should thus address the sleeper . 
There was a name however by which she called another -- a name of love , and it would make the withered heart of Hagar Warren bound , and beat , and throb with untold joy . 
Was it a delusion , that beauteous form which met her view , that soft hand on her brow , or was it Maggie Miller ? 
`` Grandmother , '' the low voice said again , `` I am Maggie , Hester 's child . 
Yes , through the films of age , through the films of coming death , and through the gathering darkness , old Hagar saw and knew , and with a scream of joy , her shrunken arms wound themselves convulsively around the maiden 's neck , drawing her near , and nearer still , until the shrivelled lips touched the cheek of her who did not turn away , but returned that kiss of love . 
She did not ask her when she came -- she did not ask her where she had been ; but Maggie told her all , sitting by her side with the poor hands clasped in her own ; then , as the twilight shadows deepened in the room , she struck a light , and coming near to Hagar , said , `` Am I much like my mother ? '' 
Maggie asked , holding to view the ambrotype of Hester Hamilton . 
For an instant Hagar wavered , then hugging the picture to her bosom , she laughed and cried together , whispering as she did so , `` My little girl , my Hester , my baby that I used to sing to sleep , in our home away over the sea . '' 
Hagar 's mind was wandering amid the scenes of bygone years , but it soon came back again to the present time , and she asked of Margaret whence that picture came . 
In a few words , Maggie told her , and then for a time there was silence , which was broken at last by Hagar 's voice , weaker now than when she spoke before . 
`` Maggie , '' she said , `` what of this Arthur Carrollton ? 
Everything I wished for has come to pass , even the hearing youcall me by that blessed name ; but Maggie , when to-morrow they say that I am dead -- when you come down to look upon me lying here asleep , you need n't call me ` Grandmother , ' you may say ` poor Hagar ' with the rest -- and Maggie , is it too much to ask that your own hands will arrange my hair , fix my cap , and straighten my poor old crooked limbs for the coffin ? 
And if I should look decent , will you , when nobody sees you do it -- Madam Conway , Arthur Carrollton , nobody who is proud -- will you , Maggie , kiss me once for the sake of what I 've suffered that youmight be what you are ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , I will , '' was Maggie 's answer , her tears falling fast , and a fear creeping into her heart , as by the dim candle light , she saw a nameless shadow settling down on Hagar 's face . 
The servant entered at this moment , and glancing at old Hagar , sunk into a chair , for she knew that shadow was death . 
`` Maggie , '' and the voice was now a whisper , `` I wish I could once more see this Mr. Carrollton . 
Ere Maggie had time to answer , there was a step upon the floor , and Arthur Carrollton stood at her side . 
He had waited for her long , and growing at last impatient , had stolen to the open door , and when the dying woman asked for him , he had trampled down his pride , and entered the humble room . 
He took it unhesitatingly , while the pale lips murmured faintly : `` Maggie 's too . '' 
The little grave , too , where for many years Maggie herself had been supposed to sleep , was not beneath the pine tree now ; that mound was levelled down , and another had been made , just where the grass was growing rank and green beneath the shadow of the taller stone , and there side by side they lay at last together , the mother and her infant child . 
`` Not yours Rose , but mine , '' said Maggie . 
`` My mother , she was , and as such , I will cherish her memory ; '' then , with her arm still around her sister 's waist , she walked slowly back to the house . 
A little later , and while Arthur Carrollton , with Maggie at his side , was talking to her of something which made the blushes burn on her still pale cheeks , Madam Conway herself walked out to witness the improvements , lingering longest at the little grave , and saying to herself , `` it was very thoughtful in Arthur , very , to do what I should have done myself ere this , had I not been afraid of Margaret 's feelings . '' 
So , with the love-light shining on her heart , and the moonlight shining on the wave , we bid adieu to one who bears no more the name of `` Maggie Miller . '' 
