Whoever passed beneath this old arched gateway , thus saint-guarded , in the year of our Lord 's grace -- , might have seen under its shadow , sitting opposite to a stand of golden oranges , the little Agnes . 
A very pretty picture was she , reader , -- with such a face as you sometimes see painted in those wayside shrines of sunny Italy , where the lamp burns pale at evening , and gilly-flower and cyclamen are renewed with every morning . 
She might have been fifteen or thereabouts , but was so small of stature that she seemed yet a child . 
Her black hair was parted in a white unbroken seam down to the high forehead , whose serious arch , like that of a cathedral-door , spoke of thought and prayer . 
`` Agnes , bethink yourself ! '' 
`` Here , Agnes , run to the stall of Raphael the poulterer for change , '' said the adroit dame , picking up the gold . 
-- this child is named for blessed Saint Agnes , and is under her protection . '' 
`` And hang this upon the shrine of Saint Agnes for my sake , '' he added , drawing from his finger a diamond ring , which he dropped into her hand ; and before mother or daughter could add another word or recover from their surprise , he had thrown the corner of his mantle over his shoulder and was off down the narrow street , humming the refrain of a gay song . 
At present , however , her face was running over with mischievous merriment , as she slyly pinched little Agnes by the ear . 
Agnes knows no such nonsense , -- blessed be her gracious patroness , with Our Lady and Saint Michael ! '' 
`` It is to hang on the shrine of Saint Agnes , '' said the younger girl , looking up with simplicity . 
`` To hang on the shrine of Saint Agnes ! '' 
-- Come , Agnes , '' she said , as she lifted the orange-basket on to her head ; and , straightening her tall form , she seized the girl by the hand to lead her away . 
Agnes had been familiar with this picture from early infancy . 
No day of her life had the flowers failed to be freshly placed before it . 
It had seemed to smile down sympathy on her childish joys , and to cloud over with her childish sorrows . 
It was less a picture to her than a presence ; and the whole air of the little orange-garden seemed to be made sacred by it . 
When she had arranged her flowers , she kneeled down and began to say prayers for the soul of the young gallant . 
`` Holy Jesus , '' she said , `` he is young , rich , handsome , and a king 's brother ; and for all these things the Fiend may tempt him to forget his God and throw away his soul . 
Afterher light supper was over , Agnes took her distaff , wound with shining white flax , and went and seated herself in her favorite place , on the low parapet that overlooked the gorge . 
This ravine , with its dizzy depths , its waving foliage , its dripping springs , and the low murmur of the little stream that pursued its way far down at the bottom , was one of those things which stimulated her impressible imagination , and filled her with a solemn and vague delight . 
The education of Agnes had been one which rendered her whole system peculiarly sensitive and impressible to all influences from the invisible and unseen . 
At present we see her sitting in the twilight on the moss-grown marble parapet , her distaff , with its silvery flax , lying idly in her hands , and her widening dark eyes gazing intently into the gloomy gorge below , from which arose the far-off complaining babble of the brook at the bottom and the shiver and sigh of evening winds through the trailing ivy . 
`` Agnes ! '' 
Come , Agnes , '' she said , pulling the girl by the sleeve , `` you must be tired , my lamb ! 
We will sprinkle holy water all round the parapet , and say the office of Saint Agnes , and let them sing till they are hoarse . '' 
Nevertheless , while Agnes was kneeling at her evening-prayers , the old dame consoled herself with a soliloquy , as with a brush she vigorously besprinkled the premises with holy water . 
The moonlight streamed through the unglazed casement , and made a square of light on the little bed where Agnes was sleeping , in which square her delicate face was framed , with its tremulous and spiritual expression most resembling in its sweet plaintive purity some of the Madonna faces of Frà Angelico , -- those tender wild-flowers of Italian religion and poetry . 
While they sleep , we must tell something more of the story of the little Agnes , -- of what she is , and what are the causes which have made her such . 
Originally she was the wife of a steward in one of those great families of Rome whose state and traditions were princely . 
Love had been the root of all poor Isella 's troubles , -- and Agnes never should know love , till taught it safely by a husband of Elsie 's own choosing . 
The first step of security was in naming her for the chaste Saint Agnes , and placing her girlhood under her special protection . 
The peculiar circumstance which had led her to choose the old town of Sorrento for her residence , in preference to any of the beautiful villages which impearl that fertile plain , was the existence there of a flourishing convent dedicated to Saint Agnes , under whose protecting shadow her young charge might more securely spend the earlier years of her life . 
With this view , having hired the domicile we have already described , she lost no time in making the favorable acquaintance of the sisterhood , -- never coming to them empty-handed . 
The finest oranges of her garden , the whitest flax of her spinning , were always reserved as offerings at the shrine of the patroness whom she sought to propitiate for her grandchild . 
In her earliest childhood the little Agnes was led toddling to the shrine by her zealous relative ; and at the sight of her fair , sweet , awe-struck face , with its viny mantle of encircling curls , the torpid bosoms of the sisterhood throbbed with a strange , new pleasure , which they humbly hoped was not sinful , -- as agreeable things , they found , generally were . 
They loved the echoes of her little feet down the damp , silent aisles of their chapel , and her small , sweet , slender voice , as she asked strange baby-questions , which , as usual with baby-questions , hit all the insoluble points of philosophy and theology exactly on the head . 
They were the simplest sayings and doings of childhood , -- handfuls of such wild-flowers as bespread the green turf of nursery-life everywhere , but miraculous blossoms in the eyes of these good women , whom Saint Agnes had unwittingly deprived of any power of making comparisons or ever having Christ 's sweetest parable of the heavenly kingdom enacted in homes of their own . 
Old Jocunda , the porteress , never failed to make a sensation with her one stock-story of how she found the child standing on her head and crying , -- having been put into this reversed position in consequence of climbing up on a high stool to get her little fat hand into the vase of holy water , failing in which Christian attempt , her heels went up and her head down , greatly to her dismay . 
She never played the wild and noisy plays of common children , but busied herself in making altars and shrines , which she adorned with the prettiest flowers of the gardens , and at which she worked hour after hour in the quietest and happiest earnestness . 
Her dreams were a constant source of wonder and edification in the Convent , for they were all of angels and saints ; and many a time , after hearing one , the sisterhood crossed themselves , and the Abbess said , `` Ex oribus parvulorum . '' 
Always sweet , dutiful , submissive , cradling herself every night with a lulling of sweet hymns and infant murmur of prayers , and found sleeping in her little white bed with her crucifix clasped to her bosom , it was no wonder that the Abbess thought her the special favorite of her divine patroness , and , like her , the subject of an early vocation to be the celestial bride of One fairer than the children of men , who should snatch her away from all earthly things , to be united to Him in a celestial paradise . 
As the child grew older , she often sat at evening with wide , wondering eyes , listening over and over again to the story of the fair Saint Agnes : -- How she was a princess , living in her father 's palace , of such exceeding beauty and grace that none saw her but to love her , yet of such sweetness and humility as passed all comparison ; and how , when a heathen prince would have espoused her to his son , she said , `` Away from me , tempter ! 
for I am betrothed to a lover who is greater and fairer than any earthly suitor , -- he is so fair that the sun and moon are ravished by his beauty , so mighty that the angels of heaven are his servants ; '' how she bore meekly with persecutions and threatenings and death for the sake of this unearthly love ; and when she had poured out her blood , how she came to her mourning friends in ecstatic vision , all white and glistening , with a fair lamb by her side , and bade them weep not for her , because she was reigning with Him whom on earth she had preferred to all other lovers . 
she said , pausing , after she was dressed , and addressing a coarse print of Saint Agnes pasted against the wall , -- `` you look very meek there , and it was a great thing no doubt to die as you did ; but if you 'd lived to be married and bring up a family of girls , you 'd have known something greater . 
But the first time that the clear , sweet tones of Agnes rang in his ears at the confessional , and her words , so full of unconscious poetry and repressed genius , came like a strain of sweet music through the grate , he felt at his heart a thrill to which it had long been a stranger , and which seemed to lift the weary , aching load from off his soul , as if some invisible angel had borne it up on his wings . 
But since his acquaintance with Agnes , without his knowing exactly why , thoughts of the Divine Love had floated into his soul , filling it with a golden cloud like that which of old rested over the mercy-seat in that sacred inner temple where the priest was admitted alone . 
A year passed in this way , perhaps the best and happiest of his troubled life , -- a year in which , insensibly to himself , the weekly interviews with Agnes at the confessional became the rallying-points around which the whole of his life was formed , and she the unsuspected spring of his inner being . 
He had never touched her hand ; never had even the folds of her passing drapery brushed against his garments of mortification and renunciation ; never , even in pastoral benediction , had he dared lay his hand on that beautiful head . 
It is true , he had not forbidden himself to raise his glance sometimes when he saw her coming in at the church-door and gliding up the aisle with downcast eyes , and thoughts evidently so far above earth , that she seemed , like one of Frà Angelico 's angels , to be moving on a cloud , so encompassed with stillness and sanctity that he held his breath as she passed . 
The thought of Agnes , his spotless lamb , exposed to lawless and licentious pursuit , of whose nature and probabilities his past life gave him only too clear an idea , was of itself a very natural source of anxiety . 
But Elsie had unveiled to him her plans for her marriage , and consulted him on the propriety of placing Agnes immediately under the protection of the husband she had chosen for her ; and it was this part of her communication which had awakened the severest internal recoil , and raised a tumult of passions which the priest vainly sought either to assuage or understand . 
Yes , he says to himself , he loves Agnes , -- loves her all-sacredly as her guardian angel does , who ever beholdeth the face of her Father in Heaven . 
Why , then , does he shrink from her marriage ? 
Will not her beauty always draw the eye of the licentious , expose her artless innocence to solicitation which will annoy her and bring upon her head the inconsiderate jealousy of her husband ? 
Think of Agnes made subject to the rude authority , to the stripes and correction , which men of the lower class , under the promptings of jealousy , do not scruple to inflict on their wives ! 
The morning sunbeams were shooting many a golden shaft among the orange-trees when Elsie returned and found Agnes yet kneeling at her prayers . 
I will go with you to the Convent , and you shall spend the day with the sisters , and so carry Saint Agnes her ring . '' 
May I stop a little on the way , and pick some cyclamen and myrtles and daisies for her shrine ? '' 
When the basket was filled and trimmed , Agnes took it on her arm . 
Agnes followed her with light , irregular movements , glancing aside from time to time , as a tuft of flowers or a feathery spray of leaves attracted her fancy . 
In a few moments her hands were too full , and her woollen apron of many-colored stripes was raised over one arm to hold her treasures , while a hymn to Saint Agnes , which she constantly murmured to herself , came in little ripples of sound , now from behind a rock , and now out of a tuft of bushes , to show where the wanderer was hid . 
`` Beautiful and sweet Agnes , '' it said , in a thousand tender repetitions , `` make me like thy little white lamb ! 
Beautiful Agnes , take me to the green fields where Christ 's lambs are feeding ! 
On this spot Elsie paused a moment , and called back after Agnes , who had disappeared into one of those deep grottos with which the sides of the gorge are perforated , and which are almost entirely veiled by the pendent ivy-wreaths . 
`` Agnes ! 
Agnes ! 
Only the sound of `` Bella , bella Angella '' came out of the ivy-leaves to answer her ; but it sounded so happy and innocent that Elsie could not forbear a smile , and in a moment Agnes came springing down with a quantity of the feathery lycopodium in her hands , which grows nowhere so well as in moist and dripping places . 
Out of her apron were hanging festoons of golden broom , crimson gladiolus , and long , trailing sprays of ivy ; while she held aloft in triumph a handful of the most superb cyclamen , whose rosy crowns rise so beautifully above their dark quaint leaves in moist and shady places . 
Saint Agnes will be pleased with me to-day ; for I believe in her heart she loves flowers better than gems . '' 
Agnes ran gayly along the beach with her flowers and vines fluttering from her gay striped apron , and her cheeks flushed with exercise and pleasure , -- sometimes stopping and turning with animation to her grandmother to point out the various floral treasures that enamelled every crevice and rift of the steep wall of rock which rose perpendicularly above their heads in that whole line of the shore which is crowned with the old city of Sorrento : and surely never did rocky wall show to the open sea a face more picturesque and flowery . 
`` Well , well , '' said old Elsie , as Agnes pointed to some superb gillyflowers which grew nearly half-way up the precipice , -- `` is the child possessed ? 
After a half-hour 's walk , they came to a winding staircase cut in the rock , which led them a zigzag course up through galleries and grottos looking out through curious windows and loop-holes upon the sea , till finally they emerged at the old sculptured portal of a shady garden which was surrounded by the cloistered arcades of the Convent of Saint Agnes . 
The Convent of Saint Agnes was one of those monuments in which the piety of the Middle Ages delighted to commemorate the triumphs of the new Christianity over the old Heathenism . 
Some time about the middle of the thirteenth century , it had been a favorite enterprise of a princess of a royal family in Naples to erect a convent to Saint Agnes , the guardian of female purity , out of the wrecks and remains of an ancient temple of Venus , whose white pillars and graceful acanthus-leaves once crowned a portion of the precipice on which the town was built , and were reflected from the glassy blue of the sea at its feet . 
The portal at which Agnes and her grandmother knocked , after ascending the winding staircase cut in the precipice , opened through an arched passage into this garden . 
She might be seventy-five or eighty ; her cheeks were of the color of very yellow parchment drawn in dry wrinkles ; her eyes were those large , dark , lustrous ones so common in her country , but seemed , in the general decay and shrinking of every other part of her face , to have acquired a wild , unnatural appearance ; while the falling away of her teeth left nothing to impede the meeting of her hooked nose with her chin . 
Add to this , she was hump-backed , and twisted in her figure ; and one needs all the force of her very good-natured , kindly smile to redeem the image of poor old Jocunda from association with that of some Thracian witch , and cause one to see in her the appropriate portress of a Christian institution . 
Nevertheless , Agnes fell upon her neck and imprinted a very fervent kiss upon what was left of her withered cheek , and was repaid by a shower of those epithets of endearment which in the language of Italy fly thick and fast as the petals of the orange-blossom from her groves . 
`` Well , well , '' said old Elsie , -- `` I 'm going to leave her here to-day . 
She belongs here of good right . 
I believe blessed Saint Agnes has adopted her ; for I 've seen her smile , plain as could be , when the little one brought her flowers . '' 
`` Well , Agnes , '' said the old woman , `` I shall come for you after the Ave Maria . '' 
The vaulted roof was spangled with gold stars on a blue ground , and along the sides was a series of fresco pictures representing the various scenes in the life of Saint Agnes ; and as the foundress of the Convent was royal in her means , there was no lack either of gold or gems or of gorgeous painting . 
Full justice was done in the first picture to the princely wealth and estate of the fair Agnes , who was represented as a pure-looking , pensive child , standing in a thoughtful attitude , with long ripples of golden hair flowing down over a simple white tunic , and her small hands clasping a cross on her bosom , while , kneeling at her feet , obsequious slaves and tire-women were offering the richest gems and the most gorgeous robes to her serious and abstracted gaze . 
In another , she was represented as walking modestly to school , and winning the admiration of the son of the Roman Prætor , who fell sick -- so says the legend -- for the love of her . 
Then there was the demand of her hand in marriage by the princely father of the young man , and her calm rejection of the gorgeous gifts and splendid gems which he had brought to purchase her consent . 
Then followed in order her accusation before the tribunals as a Christian , her trial , and the various scenes of her martyrdom . 
The simple sisterhood , little conversant in nice points of antiquity , regarded her as Saint Agnes dispensing the waters of purity to her convent ; and marvellous and sacred properties were ascribed to the water , when taken fasting with a sufficient number of prayers and other religious exercises . 
All around the neighborhood of this fountain the ground was one bed of blue and white violets , whose fragrance filled the air , and which were deemed by the nuns to have come up there in especial token of the favor with which Saint Agnes regarded the conversion of this heathen relic to pious and Christian uses . 
This nymph had been an especial favorite of the childhood of Agnes , and she had always had a pleasure which she could not exactly account for in gazing upon it . 
Agnes was often conscious , when a child , of being saddened by it , and yet drawn towards it with a mysterious attraction . 
On these seats Agnes had dreamed away many a tranquil hour , making garlands of violets , and listening to the marvellous legends of old Jocunda . 
`` So , so , '' she said to Agnes , when she had closed the gate after Elsie , -- `` you never come empty-handed . 
Saint Agnes has given you a particular grace for that , '' said Jocunda . 
`` And I have brought a ring for her treasury , '' said Agnes , taking out the gift of the Cavalier . 
`` Why , Agnes , this is a diamond , -- and as pretty a one as ever I saw . 
she added , holding it up . 
`` I want to tell our mother about it , '' said Agnes . 
Agnes stopped at the door to listen . 
`` Stop , dear Jocunda , '' she said to the old woman , who was about to push her way abruptly into the room , `` wait till it is over . '' 
Jocunda , who was quite matter-of-fact in her ideas of religion , made a little movement of impatience , but was recalled to herself by observing the devout absorption with which Agnes , with clasped hands and downcast head , was mentally joining in the hymn with a solemn brightness in her young face . 
When the strain died away , and was succeeded by a conversation on the respective merits of two kinds of gold embroidering-thread , Agnes and Jocunda entered the apartment . 
Agnes went forward and kissed the hand of the Mother reverentially . 
The strongest affection she had ever known had been that which had been excited by the childish beauty and graces of Agnes , and she folded her in her arms and kissed her forehead with a warmth that had in it the semblance of maternity . 
`` Grandmamma has given me a day to spend with you , dear mother , '' said Agnes . 
`` I have something to speak to you of in particular , my mother , '' said Agnes , blushing deeply . 
`` My mother , '' said Agnes , `` yesterday evening , as grandmamma and I were sitting at the gate , selling oranges , a young cavalier came up and bought oranges of me , and he kissed my forehead and asked me to pray for him , and gave me this ring for the shrine of Saint Agnes . '' 
it is n't like you , Agnes , to let him . '' 
`` He did it before I knew , '' said Agnes . 
`` Grandmamma reproved him , and then he seemed to repent , and gave this ring for the shrine of Saint Agnes . '' 
`` Perhaps so , Jocunda , '' said Agnes , gravely ; `` but if that be the case , he needs prayers all the more . '' 
`` He was beautiful as an angel , '' said Agnes , `` only it was not a good beauty . 
`` Grandmamma will not hear of it yet , '' said Agnes ; `` and she loves me so , it would break her heart , if I should leave her , and she could not be happy here ; -- but , mother , you have told me we could carry an altar always in our hearts , and adore in secret . 
said Agnes . 
`` I do n't want one , Jocunda ; and I have promised to Saint Agnes to come here , if she will only get grandmother to consent . '' 
Reverently kissing the hand of the Abbess , Agnes withdrew with her old friend , and crossed again to the garden to attend to her flowers . 
`` Oh , dear Jocunda , '' said Agnes , `` why must you go this minute ? 
So saying , she hobbled off briskly , and Agnes , sitting down on the fragment sculptured with dancing nymphs , began abstractedly pulling her flowers towards her , shaking from them the dew of the fountain . 
Unconsciously to herself , as she sat there , her head drooped into the attitude of the marble nymph , and her sweet features assumed the same expression of plaintive and dreamy thoughtfulness ; her heavy dark lashes lay on her pure waxen cheeks like the dark fringe of some tropical flower . 
Her form , in its drooping outlines , scarcely yet showed the full development of womanhood , which after-years might unfold into the ripe fulness of her countrywomen . 
Her whole attitude and manner were those of an exquisitely sensitive and highly organized being , just struggling into the life of some mysterious new inner birth , -- into the sense of powers of feeling and being hitherto unknown even to herself . 
`` Ah , '' she softly sighed to herself , `` how little I am ! 
`` Well , my little beauty , you have not finished even one garland , '' said the voice of old Jocunda , bustling up behind her . 
So saying , she sat down with her spindle and flax by Agnes , for an afternoon gossip . 
`` Why , '' said Agnes , `` do those Sirens sing there yet ? '' 
`` I am thinking , '' said Agnes , `` it would be a blessed work to put up some shrines to Saint Agnes and our good Lord in the gorge , and I 'll promise to keep the lamps burning and the flowers in order . '' 
`` I have an uncle in Florence who is a father in the holy convent of San Marco , who paints and works in stone , -- not for money , but for the glory of God ; and when he comes this way I will speak to him about it , '' said Agnes . 
`` No , '' said Agnes , pausing a moment over the garland of flowers she was weaving , -- `` only Giulietta told me that he was brother to the King . 
`` Whatever he may be , his worldly state is nothing to me , '' said Agnes . 
`` Ay , ay , '' muttered the old woman to herself , looking obliquely out of the corner of her eye at the girl , who was busily sorting her flowers ; `` perhaps he will be seeking some other acquaintance . '' 
Agnes abstractedly stooped and began plucking handfuls of lycopodium , which was growing green and feathery on one side of the marble frieze on which she was sitting ; in so doing , a fragment of white marble , which had been overgrown in the luxuriant green , appeared to view . 
Agnes bent over , intent on the mystic `` Dîs Manibus , '' in old Roman letters . 
said Agnes , with a distressful accent . 
Agnes gave a shivering sigh , and , looking up into the golden sky that was pouring such floods of splendor through the orange-trees and jasmines , thought , How could it be that the world could possibly be going on so sweet and fair over such an abyss ? 
she said , `` it does seem toodreadful to believe ! 
The dear saints know I found it dull enough at first , for I 'd been used to jaunting round with my old man and the boys ; but what with marketing and preserving , and one thing and another , I get on better now , praise to Saint Agnes ! '' 
The large , dark eyes of Agnes were fixed abstractedly on the old woman as she spoke , slowly dilating , with a sad , mysterious expression , which sometimes came over them . 
said Agnes , clasping her hands in an ecstasy . 
said Agnes . 
said Agnes . 
`` Oh , please , Jocunda , do n't let us talk about it any more , '' said Agnes . 
Old Jocunda , with her tough , vigorous organization and unceremonious habits of expression , could not conceive the exquisite pain with which this whole conversation had vibrated on the sensitive being at her right hand , -- that what merely awoke her hard-corded nerves to a dull vibration of not unpleasant excitement was shivering and tearing the tenderer chords of poor little Psyche beside her . 
Ages before , beneath those very skies that smiled so sweetly over her , -- amid the bloom of lemon and citron , and the perfume of jasmine and rose , the gentlest of old Italian souls had dreamed and wondered what might be the unknown future of the dead , and , learning his lesson from the glorious skies and gorgeous shores which witnessed how magnificent a Being had given existence to man , had recorded his hopes of man 's future in the words -- Aut beatus , aut nihil ; but , singular to tell , the religion which brought with it all human tenderness and pities , -- the hospital for the sick , the refuge for the orphan , the enfranchisement of the slave , -- this religion brought also the news of the eternal , hopeless , living torture of the great majority of mankind , past and present . 
Agnes had hitherto dwelt only on the cheering and the joyous features of her faith ; her mind loved to muse on the legends of saints and angels and the glories of paradise , which , with a secret buoyancy , she hoped to be the lot of every one she saw . 
Agnes tried to dismiss these gloomy images from her mind , and , after arranging her garlands , went to decorate the shrine and altar , -- a cheerful labor of love , in which she delighted . 
Our little Agnes , therefore , when she had spread all her garlands out , seemed really to feel as if the girlish figure that smiled in sacred white from the altar-piece was a dear friend who smiled upon her , and was watching to lead her up the path to heaven . 
Agnes ran along the shore , and amused herself with picking up little morsels of red and black coral , and those fragments of mosaic pavements , blue , red , and green , which the sea is never tired of casting up from the thousands of ancient temples and palaces which have gone to wreck all around these shores . 
As she was busy doing this , she suddenly heard the voice of Giulietta behind her . 
`` So ho , Agnes ! 
`` At the Convent , '' said Agnes , raising herself from her work , and smiling at Giulietta , in her frank , open way . 
`` Oh , then you really did take the ring to Saint Agnes ? '' 
`` To be sure I did , '' said Agnes . 
`` I can do without , '' said Agnes . 
`` You did tell me something yesterday , '' said Agnes . 
said Agnes . 
`` Oh , nonsense , Agnes ! 
`` Agnes , '' said the sharp voice of Elsie , coming up from behind , `` do n't run on ahead of me again ; -- and you , Mistress Baggage , let my child alone . '' 
Come , Agnes . '' 
So saying , old Elsie drew Agnes rapidly along with her , leaving Giulietta rolling her great black eyes after them with an air of infinite contempt . 
she said ; `` I declare he shall get speech of the little dove , if only to spite her . 
Let her try her best , and see if we do n't get round her before she knows it . 
Pietro says his master is certainly wild after her , and I have promised to help him . '' 
Meanwhile , just as old Elsie and Agnes were turning into the orange-orchard which led into the Gorge of Sorrento , they met the cavalier of the evening before . 
Old Elsie frowned , and Agnes blushed deeply ; -- both hurried forward . 
little Agnes ? '' 
`` He will be bright that gets her . 
In a damp , dirty chamber , whose brick floor seemed to have been unsuspicious of even the existence of brooms for centuries , was sitting the cavalier whom we have so often named in connection with Agnes . 
Onthe evening when Agnes and her grandmother returned from the Convent , as they were standing after supper looking over the garden parapet into the gorge , their attention was caught by a man in an ecclesiastical habit , slowly climbing the rocky pathway towards them . 
exclaimed Agnes , springing up with vivacity , and looking eagerly down the path by which the stranger was approaching . 
His intercourse with his sister had few points of sympathy , Elsie being as decided a utilitarian as any old Yankee female born in the granite hills of New Hampshire , and pursuing with a hard and sharp energy her narrow plan of life for Agnes . 
Agnes , on the contrary , had from a child attached herself to her uncle with all the energy of a sympathetic nature , and his yearly visits had been looked forward to on her part with intense expectation . 
To him she could say a thousand things which she instinctively concealed from her grandmother ; and Elsie was well pleased with the confidence , because it relieved her a little from the vigilant guardianship that she otherwise held over the girl . 
When Father Antonio was near , she had leisure now and then for a little private gossip of her own , without the constant care of supervising Agnes . 
Uncle Antonio will show his little Agnes everything by-and-by . 
Agnes clasped her hands on her bosom and bowed also , while Elsie stopped with her knife in the middle of a loaf of black bread , and crossed herself with somewhat of impatience , -- like a worldly-minded person of our day , who is interrupted in the midst of an observation by a grace . 
After the rites of hospitality had been duly observed , the old dame seated herself contentedly in her door with her distaff , resigned Agnes to the safe guardianship of her uncle , and had a feeling of security in seeing them sitting together on the parapet of the garden , with the portfolio spread out between them , -- the warm twilight glow of the evening sky lighting up their figures as they bent in ardent interest over its contents . 
pursued Agnes , taking up another paper . 
sighed Agnes , `` how beautiful and how blessed to be among such ! '' 
`` I should like to be such a one , '' said Agnes . 
`` I do n't want any husband in this world , grandmamma , '' said Agnes . 
`` He who took care of the blessed Saint Agnes , grandmamma . '' 
`` Saint Agnes , to be sure ! 
She sha 'n' t have a vocation ! 
Suppose I 'm going to delve , and toil , and spin , and wear myself to the bone , and have her slip through my fingers at last with a vocation ? 
said Agnes . 
Agnes turned again to the portfolio and busied herself with it , her eyes dilating as she ran over the sketches . 
she asked . 
said Agnes , -- her large eyes filling with tears . 
Agnes looked up to him with humble awe , as to some celestial being ; but there was a sympathetic glow in her face , and she put her hands on her bosom , as her manner often was when much moved , and , drawing a deep sigh , said , -- `` Would that such gifts were mine ! '' 
`` But , '' said Agnes , fervently , `` how little can a poor young maiden do ! 
As Agnes spoke these words , her cheek , usually so clear and pale , became suffused with a tremulous color , and her dark eyes had a deep , divine expression ; -- a moment after , the color slowly faded , her head drooped , and her long , dark lashes fell on her cheek , while her hands were folded on her bosom . 
The eye of the monk was watching her with an enkindled glance . 
said Agnes . 
`` Ah , '' said Agnes , drawing in her breath with an expression of awe , `` what mortal would dare to sit for the image of our Lady ! '' 
said Agnes , covering her face with her hands . 
`` Dear uncle , '' said Agnes , `` I am Christ 's child . 
As Agnes sat on the parapet , with the moonlight streaming down on her young , spiritual face , now tremulous with deep suppressed emotion , the painter thought he had never seen any human creature that looked nearer to his conception of a celestial being . 
A man enveloped in a dark cloak with a peaked hood stepped across the moss-grown garden parapet , stood a moment irresolute , then the cloak dropped suddenly from him , and the cavalier stood in the moonlight before Agnes . 
Then turning toward Agnes , he kneeled , and kissing the hem of her robe , and laying the lily in her lap , `` Holiest and dearest , '' he said , `` oh , forget not to pray for me ! '' 
It was at the Ave Maria ; he came up there and asked my prayers , and gave me a diamond ring for the shrine of Saint Agnes , which I carried to the convent to-day . '' 
`` I would , '' said Agnes , thoughtfully , `` that I knew who this stranger is , and what is his great trouble and need , -- his eyes are so full of sorrow . 
`` Come , Agnes , '' she said , `` it is time for you to begin your prayers , or , the saints know , I shall not get you to bed till midnight . 
Agnes , who had been sitting abstractedly on the parapet , with her head drooped over the lily-spray , now seemed to collect herself . 
She rose up in a grave and thoughtful manner , and , going forward to the shrine of the Madonna , removed the flowers of the morning , and holding the vase under the spout of the fountain , all feathered with waving maiden-hair , filled it with fresh water , the drops falling from it in a thousand little silver rings in the moonlight . 
`` Hast thou ever reflected , '' he said to Agnes , `` what that lily might be like which the angel Gabriel brought to our Lady ? 
Meanwhile Agnes , kneeling before the shrine , was going through with great feeling and tenderness the various manuals and movements of nightly devotion which her own religious fervor and the zeal of her spiritual advisers had enjoined upon her . 
If there seemed somewhat mechanical in the number of times which Agnes repeated the `` Hail , Mary ! '' 
-- in the prescribed number of times she rose or bowed or crossed herself or laid her forehead in low humility on the flags of the pavement , it was redeemed by the earnest fervor which inspired each action . 
However foreign to the habits of a Northern mind or education such a mode of prayer may be , these forms to her were all helpful and significant , her soul was borne by them Godward , -- and often , as she prayed , it seemed to her that she could feel the dissolving of all earthly things , and the pressing nearer and nearer of the great cloud of witnesses who ever surround the humblest member of Christ 's mystical body . 
When Agnes rose from prayer , she had a serene , exalted expression , like one who walks with some unseen excellence and meditates on some untold joy . 
As she was crossing the court to come towards her uncle , her eye was attracted by the sparkle of something on the ground , and , stooping , she picked up a heart-shaped locket , curiously made of a large amethyst , and fastened with a golden arrow . 
As she pressed upon this , the locket opened and disclosed to her view a folded paper . 
Her mood at this moment was so calm and elevated that she received the incident with no start or shiver of the nerves . 
To her it seemed a Providential token , which would probably bring to her some further knowledge of this mysterious being who had been so especially confided to her intercessions . 
Agnes had learned of the Superior of the Convent the art of reading writing , which would never have been the birthright of the peasant-girl in her times , and the moon had that dazzling clearness which revealed every letter . 
She stood by the parapet , one hand lying in the white blossoming alyssum which filled its marble crevices , while she read and seriously pondered the contents of the paper . 
There might have been times in Agnes 's life when the reception of this note would have astonished and perplexed her ; but the whole strain of thought and conversation this evening had been in exalted and poetical regions , and the soft stillness of the hour , the wonderful calmness and clearness of the moonlight , all seemed in unison with the strange incident that had occurred , and with the still stranger tenor of the paper . 
The soft melancholy , half-religious tone of it was in accordance with the whole under-current of her life , and prevented that start of alarm which any homage of a more worldly form might have excited . 
It is not to be wondered at , therefore , that she read it many times with pauses and intervals of deep thought , and then with a movement of natural and girlish curiosity examined the rich jewel which had enclosed it . 
At last , seeming to collect her thoughts , she folded the paper and replaced it in its sparkling casket , and , unlocking the door of the shrine , laid the gem with its enclosure beneath the lily-spray , as another offering to the Madonna . 
It needs not to be explained how the cavalier , following the steps of Agnes and her grandmother at a distance , had threaded the path by which they ascended to their little sheltered nook , -- how he had lingered within hearing of Agnes 's voice , and , moving among the surrounding rocks and trees , and drawing nearer and nearer as evening shadows drew on , had listened to the conversation , hoping that some unexpected chance might gain him a moment 's speech with his enchantress . 
The reader will have gathered from the preceding chapter that the conception which Agnes had formed as to the real position of her admirer from the reports of Giulietta was false , and that in reality he was not Lord Adrian , the brother of the King , but an outcast and landless representative of one branch of an ancient and noble Roman family , whose estates had been confiscated and whose relations had been murdered , to satisfy the boundless rapacity of Cæsar Borgia , the infamous favorite of the notorious Alexander VI . 
The first time he saw Agnes bending like a flower in the slanting evening sunbeams by the old gate of Sorrento , while he stood looking down the kneeling street and striving to hold his own soul in the sarcastic calm of utter indifference , he felt himself struck to the heart by an influence he could not define . 
In this case it was not merely Agnes that he sighed for , but she stood to him as the fair symbol of that life-peace , that rest of soul which he had lost , it seemed to him , forever . 
Oh , Agnes , Agnes ! 
1 I can not forbear quoting Mr. Norton 's beautiful translation of this sonnet in the Atlantic Monthlyfor February , 1859 : -- Thedreams of Agnes , on the night after her conversation with the monk and her singular momentary interview with the cavalier , were a strange mixture of images , indicating the peculiarities of her education and habits of daily thought . 
She dreamed that she was sitting alone in the moonlight , and heard some one rustling in the distant foliage of the orange-groves , and from them came a young man dressed in white of a dazzling clearness like sunlight ; large pearly wings fell from his shoulders and seemed to shimmer with a phosphoric radiance ; his forehead was broad and grave , and above it floated a thin , tremulous tongue of flame ; his eyes had that deep , mysterious gravity which is so well expressed in all the Florentine paintings of celestial beings : and yet , singularly enough , this white-robed , glorified form seemed to have the features and lineaments of the mysterious cavalier of the evening before , -- the same deep , mournful , dark eyes , only that in them the light of earthly pride had given place to the calm , strong gravity of an assured peace , -- the same broad forehead , -- the same delicately chiselled features , but elevated and etherealized , glowing with a kind of interior ecstasy . 
Agnes seemed to herself to hold her breath and marvel with a secret awe , and , as often happens in dreams , she wondered to herself , -- `` Was this stranger , then , indeed , not even mortal , not even a king 's brother , but an angel ? 
-- How strange , '' she said to herself , `` that I should never have seen it in his eyes ! '' 
Nearer and nearer the vision drew , and touched her forehead with the lily , which seemed dewy and icy cool ; and with the contact it seemed to her that a delicious tranquillity , a calm ecstasy , possessed her soul , and the words were impressed in her mind , as if spoken in her ear , `` The Lord hath sealed thee for his own ! '' 
-- and then , with the wild fantasy of dreams , she saw the cavalier in his wonted form and garments , just as he had kneeled to her the night before , and he said , `` Oh , Agnes ! 
Agnes ! 
-- and in her sleep it seemed to her that her heart stirred and throbbed with a strange , new movement in answer to those sad , pleading eyes , and thereafter her dream became more troubled . 
But at the earliest peep of dawn the monk had risen , and now , as he paced up and down the little garden , his morning hymn mingled with Agnes 's dreams , -- words strong with all the nerve of the old Latin , which , when they were written , had scarcely ceased to be the spoken tongue of Italy . 
The tones of the monk 's morning hymn awakened both Agnes and Elsie , and the latter was on the alert instantly . 
`` He is happy , like the birds , '' said Agnes , `` because he flies near heaven . '' 
It had occurred to her that the visit of her brother was an admirable pretext for withdrawing Agnes from the scene of her daily traffic , and of course , as she fondly supposed , keeping her from the sight of the suspected admirer . 
Neither Agnes nor the monk had disturbed her serenity by recounting the adventure of the evening before . 
Agnes had been silent from the habitual reserve which a difference of nature ever placed between her and her grandmother , -- a difference which made confidence on her side an utter impossibility . 
`` Agnes , '' said her grandmother , `` I shall not need you at the stand to-day . 
`` Certainly I shall , '' said Agnes , cheerfully . 
`` Well , brother , '' said Elsie , after breakfast , `` you must look well after Agnes to-day ; for there be plenty of wolves go round , hunting these little lambs . '' 
Agnes is one of the best , too , -- a well-brought up , pious , obedient girl , and industrious as a bee . 
Happy is the husband who gets her . 
I would I knew a man good enough for her . '' 
This conversation took place while Agnes was in the garden picking oranges and lemons , and filling the basket which her grandmother was to take to the town . 
The silver ripple of a hymn that she was singing came through the open door ; it was part of a sacred ballad in honor of Saint Agnes : -- `` Hear you now , sister , '' said the monk , `` how the Lord keeps the door of this maiden 's heart ? 
Agnes is a pious child , and loves her prayers and hymns ; and so she will love her husband , one of these days , as an honest woman should . '' 
`` Maybe so , '' said Elsie , stiffly ; `` but the lower seats are good enough for Agnes and me . 
Agnes wound some silvery-white flax round her distaff , and seated herself near him under an orange-tree ; and while her small fingers were twisting the flax , her large , thoughtful eyes were wandering off on the deep blue sea , pondering over and over the strange events of the day before , and the dreams of the night . 
A deep blush suffused her cheek as she answered , -- `` Yes , uncle ; and I had a strange dream last night . '' 
`` Well , then , '' said Agnes , `` I dreamed that I sat pondering as I did last evening in the moonlight , and that an angel came forth from the trees '' -- `` Indeed ! '' 
`` But , dear uncle , '' said Agnes , hesitating and blushing painfully , `` there was one singular thing about my dream , -- this holy angel had yet a strange likeness to the young man that came here last night , so that I could not but marvel at it . '' 
I have dreamed of our Lady , and Saint Agnes , and Saint Catharine of Siena ; and sometimes it seemed that they sat a long time by my bed , and sometimes it seemed that they took me with them away to some beautiful place where the air was full of music , and sometimes they filled my hands with such lovely flowers that when I waked I was ready to weep that they could no more be found . 
said Agnes , `` how I wish I could see some of these things ! '' 
`` It must be a great blessing and favor for you , dear uncle , to see all these things , '' said Agnes ; `` I am never tired of hearing you tell of them . '' 
said Agnes . 
-- Dear uncle , '' she said , after a pause , `` they say that this deep gorge is haunted by evil spirits , who often waylay and bewilder the unwary , especially in the hours of darkness . '' 
And cheerily the good monk began to intone a verse of an old hymn , -- In such talk and work the day passed away to Agnes ; but we will not say that she did not often fall into deep musings on the mysterious visitor of the night before . 
Often while the good monk was busy at his drawing , the distaff would droop over her knee and her large dark eyes become intently fixed on the ground , as if she were pondering some absorbing subject . 
Little could her literal , hard-working grandmother , or her artistic , simple-minded uncle , or the dreamy Mother Theresa , or her austere confessor , know of the strange forcing process which they were all together uniting to carry on in the mind of this sensitive young girl . 
Agnes carefully arranged the sketches and put them into the book , and then , kneeling before the shrine , began prayers for the soul of the dying man . 
She prayed long and fervently , and so absorbed did she become , that she neither saw nor heard anything that passed around her . 
It was , therefore , with a start of surprise , as she rose from prayer , that she saw the cavalier sitting on one end of the marble sarcophagus , with an air so composed and melancholy that he might have been taken for one of the marble knights that sometimes are found on tombs . 
`` You are surprised to see me , dear Agnes , '' he said , with a calm , slow utterance , like a man who has assumed a position he means fully to justify ; `` but I have watched day and night , ever since I saw you , to find one moment to speak with you alone . '' 
`` My Lord , '' said Agnes , `` I humbly wait your pleasure . 
`` Whom do you take me for , Agnes , that you speak thus ? '' 
said Agnes . 
`` No , my Lord , '' said Agnes , -- `` though I now know not who you are , yet if in any strait or need you seek such poor prayers as mine , God forbid I should refuse them ! '' 
`` I am , indeed , in strait and need , Agnes ; the sun does not shine on a more desolate man than I am , -- one more utterly alone in the world ; there is no one left to love me . 
Agnes , can you not love me a little ? 
It was the first time that words of this purport had ever been addressed to Agnes ; but they were said so simply , so sadly , so tenderly , that they somehow seemed to her the most natural and proper things in the world to be said ; and this poor handsome knight , who looked so earnest and sorrowful , -- how could she help answering , `` Yes ? '' 
From her cradle she had always loved everybody and everything , and why should an exception be made in behalf of a very handsome , very strong , yet very gentle and submissive human being , who came and knocked so humbly at the door of her heart ? 
`` Yes , my Lord , '' she said , `` you may believe that I will love and pray for you ; but now , you must leave me , and not come here any more , -- because grandmamma would not be willing that I should talk with you , and it would be wrong to disobey her , she is so very good to me . '' 
`` But , dear Agnes , '' began the cavalier , approaching her , `` I have many things to say to you , -- I have much to tell you . '' 
`` But I know grandmamma would not be willing , '' said Agnes ; `` indeed you must not come here any more . '' 
`` I can not , -- indeed , I can not , '' said Agnes , distressed and embarrassed . 
`` The dear Lord knoweth you , '' said Agnes ; `` and when I speak of you , He will know what you need . '' 
said Agnes . 
`` Agnes , dear little lamb , you know nothing of the world ; and I should be most wicked to disturb your lovely peace of soul with any sinful doubts . 
Oh , Agnes , Agnes , I am most miserable , most unworthy ! '' 
`` Oh , Agnes , sacrament and prayer are not for such as me ! 
Both started , and Agnes looked alarmed . 
He kneeled and kissed the hand of Agnes , and disappeared at one bound over the parapet on the side opposite that which they were approaching . 
Agnes hastily composed herself , struggling with that half-guilty feeling which is apt to weigh on a conscientious nature that has been unwittingly drawn to act a part which would be disapproved by those whose good opinion it habitually seeks . 
The interview had but the more increased her curiosity to know the history of this handsome stranger . 
She wished the interview could have been long enough to satisfy her mind on these points . 
From the richness of his dress , from his air and manner , from the poetry and the jewel that accompanied it , she felt satisfied , that , if not what she supposed , he was at least nobly born , and had shone in some splendid sphere whose habits and ways were far beyond her simple experiences . 
She felt towards him somewhat of the awe which a person of her condition in life naturally felt toward that brilliant aristocracy which in those days assumed the state of princes , and the members of which were supposed to look down on common mortals from as great a height as the stars regard the humblest flowers of the field . 
`` How strange , '' she thought , `` that he should think so much of me ! 
`` Delightful , grandmamma , '' said Agnes , blushing deeply with consciousness . 
He looked up , and saw Agnes standing gazing towards the setting sun , the pale olive of her cheek deepening into a crimson flush . 
The moon that evening rose an hour later than the night before , yet found Agnes still on her knees before the sacred shrine , while Elsie , tired , grumbled at the draft on her sleeping-time . 
Agnes was pouring out her soul in that kind of yearning , passionate prayer possible to intensely sympathetic people , in which the interests and wants of another seem to annihilate for a time personal consciousness , and make the whole of one 's being seem to dissolve in an intense solicitude for something beyond one 's self . 
Brought up from infancy to feel herself in a constant circle of invisible spiritual agencies , Agnes received this wave of intense feeling as an impulse inspired and breathed into her by some celestial spirit , that thus she should be made an interceding medium for a soul in some unknown strait or peril . 
For her faith taught her to believe in an infinite struggle of intercession in which all the Church Visible and Invisible were together engaged , and which bound them in living bonds of sympathy to an interceding Redeemer , so that there was no want or woe of human life that had not somewhere its sympathetic heart , and its never-ceasing prayer before the throne of Eternal Love . 
But in the religious faith which Agnes professed there was a modifying force , whose power both for good and evil can scarcely be estimated . 
He to whom the faith of Agnes obliged her to lay open her whole soul , who had a right with probing-knife and lancet to dissect all the finest nerves and fibres of her womanly nature , was a man who had been through all the wild and desolating experiences incident to a dissipated and irregular life in those turbulent days . 
Il Padre Francesco had not failed to make those inquiries into the character of Agnes 's mysterious lover which he assumed to be necessary as a matter of pastoral faithfulness . 
It was not difficult for one possessing the secrets of the confessional to learn the real character of any person in the neighborhood , and it was with a kind of bitter satisfaction which rather surprised himself that the father learned enough ill of the cavalier to justify his using every possible measure to prevent his forming any acquaintance with Agnes . 
Father Francesco , when he next met Agnes at the confessional , put such questions as drew from her the whole account of all that had passed between her and the stranger . 
The recital on Agnes 's part was perfectly translucent and pure , for she had said no word and had had no thought that brought the slightest stain upon her soul . 
Love and prayer had been the prevailing habit of her life , and in promising to love and pray , she had had no worldly or earthly thought . 
The language of gallantry , or even of sincere passion , had never reached her ear ; but it had always been as natural to her to love every human being as for a plant with tendrils to throw them round the next plant , and therefore she entertained the gentle guest who had lately found room in her heart without a question or a scruple . 
As Agnes related her childlike story of unconscious faith and love , her listener felt himself strangely and bitterly agitated . 
Agnes had imparted to her confessor , by a mysterious sympathy , something like the morning freshness of her own soul ; she had redeemed the idea of womanhood from gross associations , and set before him a fair ideal of all that female tenderness and purity may teach to man . 
Her prayers , -- well he believed in them , -- but he set his teeth with a strange spasm of inward passion , when he thought of her prayers and love being given to another . 
The conflict of his soul communicated a severity of earnestness to his voice and manner which made Agnes tremble , as he put one probing question after another , designed to awaken some consciousness of sin in her soul . 
Still , though troubled and distressed by his apparent disapprobation , her answers came always clear , honest , unfaltering , like those of one who couldnot form an idea of evil . 
When the confession was over , he came out of his recess to speak with Agnes a few words face to face . 
Agnes lifted her eyes to his with an innocent wondering trouble and an appealing confidence that for a moment wholly unnerved him . 
He felt a wild impulse to clasp her in his arms ; and for a moment it seemed to him he would sacrifice heaven and brave hell , if he could for one moment hold her to his heart , and say that he loved her , -- her , the purest , fairest , sweetest revelation of God 's love that had ever shone on his soul , -- her , the only star , the only flower , the only dew-drop of a burning , barren , weary life . 
Agnes looked at him awe-struck and breathless . 
she faltered , `` what have I done ? '' 
`` Nothing , my poor child , '' said the father , suddenly turning toward her with recovered calmness and dignity ; `` but I behold in thee a fair lamb whom the roaring lion is seeking to devour . 
Agnes grew deadly pale at this announcement . 
she gasped . 
`` I do not say that you may not , my daughter , '' said the monk , too conscientious to resist the force of this direct appeal ; `` but , daughter , '' he added , with an energy that alarmed Agnes , `` you must watch your heart ; you must not suffer your interest to become a worldly love : remember that you are chosen to be the espoused of Christ alone . '' 
While the monk was speaking thus , Agnes fixed on him her eyes with an innocent mixture of surprise and perplexity , which gradually deepened into a strong gravity of gaze , as if she were looking through him , through all visible things into some far-off depth of mysterious knowledge . 
`` My Lord will keep me , '' she said ; `` my soul is safe in His heart as a little bird in its nest ; but while I love Him , I can not help loving everybody whom He loves , even His enemies : and , father , my heart prays within me for this poor sinner , whether I will or no ; something within me continually intercedes for him . '' 
`` Oh , Agnes ! 
Agnes ! 
said Agnes , `` how could I deem that holiness like yours had any need of my prayers ? '' 
Agnes stood appalled at this sudden burst , so different from the rigid and restrained severity of tone in which the greater part of the conversation had been conducted . 
She stood silent and troubled ; while he , whom she had always regarded with such awful veneration , seemed shaken by some internal whirlwind of emotion whose nature she could not comprehend . 
`` My father , '' said Agnes , `` you may rely on my obedience '' ; and , kneeling , she kissed his hand . 
`` Pardon a sinful child this liberty , '' said Agnes . 
Agnes left the confessional perplexed and sorrowful . 
The pale , proud , serious face of the cavalier seemed to look at her imploringly , and she thought of him now with the pathetic interest we give to something noble and great exposed to some fatal danger . 
`` Could the sacrifice of my whole life , '' she thought , `` rescue this noble soul from perdition , then I shall not have lived in vain . 
Agnesreturned from the confessional with more sadness than her simple life had ever known before . 
The agitation of her confessor , the tremulous eagerness of his words , the alternations of severity and tenderness in his manner to her , all struck her only as indications of the very grave danger in which she was placed , and the awfulness of the sin and condemnation which oppressed the soul of one for whom she was conscious of a deep and strange interest . 
She had the undoubting , uninquiring reverence which a Christianly educated child of those times might entertain for the visible head of the Christian Church , all whose doings were to be regarded with an awful veneration which never even raised a question . 
As Agnes came slowly up the path towards the little garden , she was conscious of a burden and weariness of spirit she had never known before . 
She passed the little moist grotto , which in former times she never failed to visit to see if there were any new-blown cyclamen , without giving it even a thought . 
A crimson spray of gladiolus leaned from the rock and seemed softly to kiss her cheek , yet she regarded it not ; and once stopping and gazing abstractedly upward on the flower-tapestried walls of the gorge , as they rose in wreath and garland and festoon above her , she felt as if the brilliant yellow of the broom and the crimson of the gillyflowers , and all the fluttering , nodding armies of brightness that were dancing in the sunlight , were too gay for such a world as this , where mortal sins and sorrows made such havoc with all that seemed brightest and best , and she longed to fly away and be at rest . 
Just then she heard the cheerful voice of her uncle in the little garden above , as he was singing at his painting . 
Agnes was soothed in listening to him . 
The Latin words , the sentiment of which had been traditional in the Church from time immemorial , had to her a sacred fragrance and odor ; they were words apart from all common usage , a sacramental language , never heard but in moments of devotion and aspiration , -- and they stilled the child 's heart in its tossings and tempest , as when of old the Jesus they spake of walked forth on the stormy sea . 
she said ; `` He is ever reigning for us ! 
`` Dear uncle , it is , '' said Agnes . 
`` Ah , dear uncle , I am not so very happy , '' said Agnes , the tears starting into her eyes . 
Agnes sat down on the corner of the marble fountain , and , covering her face with her apron , sobbed as if her heart would break . 
-- Come now , little Agnes , '' he said , with a coaxing tone , `` what is its trouble ? 
said Agnes , between her sobs . 
said Agnes , sobbing still more bitterly . 
`` It is n't for myself , '' said Agnes , endeavoring to check her feelings , -- `` it is not for myself , -- it is for another , -- for a soul lost . 
`` Yes , lost , '' said Agnes , despairingly , -- `` and if somebody do not save him , lost forever ; and it is a brave and noble soul , too , -- like one of the angels that fell . '' 
Father Antonio did not , therefore , tell Agnes that the announcement which had filled her with such distress was far less conclusive with himself of the ill desert of the individual to whom it related . 
said Agnes , earnestly . 
said Agnes . 
The monk could scarcely repress a smile at imagining Alexander the Sixth in this character of a good shepherd , as Agnes 's enthusiastic imagination painted the head of the Church ; and then he gave an inward sigh , and said , softly , `` Lord , how long ? '' 
`` I think , '' said Agnes , `` that this young man is of noble birth , for his words and his bearing and his tones of voice are not those of common men ; even though he speaks so humbly and gently , there is yet something princely that looks out of his eyes , as if he were born to command ; and he wears strange jewels , the like of which I never saw , on his hands and at the hilt of his dagger , -- yet he seems to make nothing of them . 
The arch shall be cunningly sculptured with vines of ivy and passion-flower ; and on one side of it shall stand Saint Agnes with her lamb , -- and on the other , Saint Cecilia , crowned with roses ; and on this pinnacle , above all , Saint Michael , all in armor , shall stand leaning , -- one hand on his sword , and holding a shield with the cross upon it . '' 
said Agnes . 
`` I think , '' said Agnes , `` that you will find him in the town ; he dwells next to the cathedral . '' 
Agnes seemed pleased with the enthusiastic discourse of her uncle . 
The tears gradually dried from her eyes as she listened to him , and the hope so natural to the young and untried heart began to reassert itself . 
In the afternoon , the monk went to the town to seek the young artist , and also to inquire for the stranger for whom his pastoral offices were in requisition , and Agnes remained alone in the little solitary garden . 
It was one of those rich slumberous afternoons of spring that seem to bathe earth and heaven with an Elysian softness ; and from her little lonely nook shrouded in dusky shadows by its orange-trees , Agnes looked down the sombre gorge to where the open sea lay panting and palpitating in blue and violet waves , while the little white sails of fishingboats drifted hither and thither , now silvered in the sunshine , now fading away like a dream into the violet vapor bands that mantled the horizon . 
The hum of the old town came to her ear softened by distance and mingled with the patter of the fountain and the music of birds singing in the trees overhead . 
Agnes tried to busy herself with her spinning ; but her mind constantly wandered away , and stirred and undulated with a thousand dim and unshaped thoughts and emotions , of which she vaguely questioned in her own mind . 
Why did Father Francesco warn her so solemnly against an earthly love ? 
Did he not know her vocation ? 
-- for Giulietta had sometimes found a chance to recount to Agnes some of her triumphs . 
When Agnes was a child , in travelling with her grandmother through one of the highest passes of the Apennines , she had chanced to discover a wounded eagle , whom an arrow had pierced , sitting all alone by himself on a rock , with his feathers ruffled , and a film coming over his great , clear , bright eye , -- and , ever full of compassion , she had taken him to nurse , and had travelled for a day with him in her arms ; and the mournful look of his regal eyes now came into her memory . 
`` Yes , '' she said to herself , `` he is like my poor eagle ! 
Such were the thoughts that Agnes twisted into the shining white flax , while her eyes wandered dreamily over the soft hazy landscape . 
At last , lulled by the shivering sound of leaves , and the bird-songs , and wearied with the agitations of the morning , her head lay back against the end of the sculptured fountain , the spindle slowly dropped from her hand , and her eyes were closed in sleep , the murmur of the fountain still sounding in her dreams . 
In her dreams she seemed to be wandering far away among the purple passes of the Apennines , where she had come years ago when she was a little girl ; with her grandmother she pushed through old olive-groves , weird and twisted with many a quaint gnarl , and rustling their pale silvery leaves in noonday twilight . 
Sometimes she seemed to carry in her bosom a wounded eagle , and often she sat down to stroke it and to try to give it food from her hand , and as often it looked upon her with a proud , patient eye , and then her grandmother seemed to shake her roughly by the arm and bid her throw the silly bird away ; -- but then again the dream changed , and she saw a knight lie bleeding and dying in a lonely hollow , -- his garments torn , his sword broken , and his face pale and faintly streaked with blood ; and she kneeled by him , trying in vain to stanch a deadly wound in his side , while he said reproachfully , `` Agnes , dear Agnes , why would you not save me ? '' 
and then she thought he kissed her hand with his cold dying lips ; and she shivered and awoke , -- to find that her hand was indeed held in that of the cavalier , whose eyes met her own when first she unclosed them , and the same voice that spoke in her dream said , `` Agnes , dear Agnes ! '' 
For a moment she seemed stupefied and confounded , and sat passively regarding the knight , who kneeled at her feet and repeatedly kissed her hand , calling her his saint , his star , his life , and whatever other fair name poetry lends to love . 
All at once , however , her face flushed crimson red , she drew her hand quickly away , and , rising up , made a motion to retreat , saying , in a voice of alarm , -- `` Oh , my Lord , this must not be ! 
`` Agnes , what does this mean ? '' 
`` A sin to love , Agnes ? 
`` Who forbids you , Agnes ? 
`` My holy father , whom I am bound to obey as my soul 's director , '' said Agnes ; `` he has forbidden me so much as to listen to a word , and yet I have listened to many . 
said Agnes , sorrowfully , `` why will you '' -- `` Why will I what ? '' 
he said , facing suddenly toward her , and looking down with a fierce , scornful determination . 
Little Agnes , you promised to lead me ; but you drop my hand in the darkness . 
`` No , Agnes , you shall notgo in , '' said the cavalier , suddenly stepping before her and placing himself across the doorway ; `` you shallsee me , and hear me too . 
`` God knows if I do it willingly , '' said Agnes ; `` but I know it is best ; for I feel I should love you too well , if I saw more of you . 
`` Dear Agnes , could you really feel it possible that you might love me too well ? '' 
I follow the blessed Saint Agnes ? 
`` Never , Agnes ? 
I know it must be best , '' said Agnes , much agitated ; `` for , if I should see you often and hear your voice , I should lose all my strength . 
`` They shall never marry you against your will , little Agnes , I pledge you my knightly word . 
said Agnes , in an ecstacy of fear and apprehension , in which there mingled some strange troubled gleams of happiness . 
`` Well , then , my Lord , if ever I am man 's wife , I will be thine , '' said Agnes . 
`` Will you ever want to see me , Agnes ? '' 
said the cavalier , as he kissed her hand , and vaulted over the wall . 
said Agnes , when he was gone . 
Dear , blessed Mother , '' she said , kneeling at the shrine , `` help thy little child ! 
Poor Agnes ! 
If only he could see him , and talk with him , and make him a good Christian , -- why , then , there would be no further need of her ; -- and Agnes was surprised to find what a dreadful , dreary blank appeared before her when she thought of this . 
Why should she wish him to remember her , since she never could be his ? 
-- and yet nothing seemed so dreadful as that he should forget her . 
So the poor little innocent fly beat and fluttered in the mazes of that enchanted web , where thousands of her frail sex have beat and fluttered before . 
He found him not so easily kindled into devotional fervors as he had fondly imagined , nor could all his most devout exhortations produce one quarter of the effect upon him that resulted from the discovery that it was the fair Agnes who originated the design and was interested in its execution . 
`` I used to know the fair Agnes well , years ago , '' he said , `` but of late she will not even look at me ; yet I worship her none the less . 
Who can help it that sees her ? 
I do n't think she is so hard-hearted as she seems ; but her grandmother and the priests wo n't so much as allow her to lift up her eyes when one of us young fellows goes by . 
Twice these five years past have I seen her eyes , and then it was when I contrived to get near the holy water when there was a press round it of a saint 's day , and I reached some to her on my finger , and then she smiled upon me and thanked me . 
Perhaps , if I work very well , she will give me another , and perhaps she will say , ` Thank you , my good Pietro ! ' 
as she used to , when I brought her birds ' eggs or helped her across the ravine , years ago . '' 
`` I will get my boat and go down this very afternoon , '' said Pietro ; `` and , Sir , I hope I am not making too bold in asking you , when you see the fair Agnes , to present unto her this lily , in memorial of her old playfellow . '' 
And now I think of it , she spoke kindly of you as one that had been a companion in her childhood , but said her grandmother would not allow her to speak to you now . '' 
-- the divine Agnes , -- the lily flower , -- the sweet star , -- the only one among women ! '' 
Besides , my Lord , if you were not excommunicated , you are of noble blood , and this alone would be a fatal objection with my sister , who hath sworn on the holy cross that Agnes shall never love one of your race . '' 
`` Some foul wrong which a noble did her mother , '' said the monk ; `` for Agnes is of gentle blood on her father 's side . '' 
`` I might have known it , '' said the cavalier to himself ; `` her words and ways are unlike anything in her class . 
But do not let them terrify my poor Agnes with dreadful stories of the excommunication that hath befallen me . 
The dear saint is breaking her good little heart for my sins , and her confessor evidently hath forbidden her to speak to me or look at me . 
If her heart were left to itself , it would fly to me like a little tame bird , and I would cherish it forever ; but now she sees sin in every innocent , womanly thought , -- poor little dear child-angel that she is ! '' 
`` Her confessor is a Franciscan , '' said the monk , who , good as he was , could not escape entirely from the ruling prejudice of his order , -- `` and , from what I know of him , I should think might be unskilful in what pertaineth to the nursing of so delicate a lamb . 
`` I 'd like to carry her off from him ! '' 
Then he added aloud , `` Father , Agnes is mine , -- mine by the right of the truest worship and devotion that man could ever pay to woman , -- mine because she loves me . 
He loved Agnes , -- he knew it , -- he said it over and over again to himself with a stormy intensity of energy ; and in this hour the whole of his nature seemed to rise in rebellion against the awful barriers which hemmed in and threatened this passion . 
He detested his work , -- he detested his duties , -- he loathed his vows , -- and there was not a thing in his whole future to which he looked forward otherwise than with the extreme of aversion , except one to which he clung with a bitter and defiant tenacity , -- the spiritual guidance of Agnes . 
He was her guide , -- her confessor , -- to him she was bound to reveal every change of feeling ; and this love that he too well perceived rising in her heart for another , -- he would wring from her own confessions the means to repress and circumvent it . 
If she could not be his , he might at least prevent her from belonging to any other , -- he might at least keep her always within the sphere of his spiritual authority . 
-- had he not a right to cherish an evident vocation , -- a right to reclaim her from the embrace of an excommunicated infidel , and present her as a chaste bride at the altar of the Lord ? 
Perhaps , when that was done , when an irrevocable barrier should separate her from all possibility of earthly love , when the awful marriage-vow should have been spoken which should seal her heart for heaven alone , he might recover some of the blessed calm which her influence once brought over him , and these wild desires might cease , and these feverish pulses be still . 
It is a cross of the cheapest and simplest material , that once belonged to Agnes . 
She lost it from her rosary at the confessional , and Father Francesco saw it fall , yet would not warn her of the loss , for he longed to possess something that had belonged to her . 
He made it a mark to one of her favorite hymns ; but she never knew where it had gone . 
Little could she dream , in her simplicity , what a power she held over the man who seemed to her an object of such awful veneration . 
Little did she dream that the poor little tinsel cross had such a mighty charm with it , and that she herself , in her childlike simplicity , her ignorant innocence , her peaceful tenderness and trust , was raising such a turbulent storm of passion in the heart which she supposed to be above the reach of all human changes . 
He thought he heard Agnes singing , as he had sometimes heard her when he had called in his pastoral ministrations at the little garden and paused awhile outside that he might hear her finish a favorite hymn , which , like a shy bird , she sung all the more sweetly for thinking herself alone . 
Quite as if they were sung in his ear , and in her very tones , he heard the words of Saint Bernard , which we have already introduced to our reader : -- `` Jesu dulcis memoria , Dans vera cordi gaudia : Sed super mel et omnia Ejus dulcis præsentia . 
Yet even this very prayer , this very hymn , were blent with the remembrance of Agnes ; for was it not she who first had taught him the lesson of heavenly love ? 
Was not she the first one who had taught him to look upward to Jesus other than as an avenging judge ? 
He sympathized fully with the situation in which he stood , and he even wished success to his love ; but then how was he to help him with Agnes , and above all with her old grandmother , without entering on the awful task of condemning and exposing that sacred authority which all the Church had so many years been taught to regard as infallibly inspired ? 
he said to himself , `` yonder clouds have exactly the rosy purple of the cyclamen which my little Agnes loves so much ; -- yes , I am resolved that this cloud on which our Mother standeth shall be of a cyclamen color . 
And as the monk plied his pencil , touching here and there , and elaborating the outlines of his drawing , he sung , -- As the monk sung , Agnes soon appeared at the door . 
`` Yes , '' said Agnes , coming forward , and looking over his shoulder at his work . 
she asked . 
`` Pietro was always a good boy , '' said Agnes . 
said Agnes . 
But , uncle , '' she added , in a hestiating voice , `` did you see anything of that -- other one ? '' 
said Agnes , joyfully . 
said Agnes , earnestly . 
said Agnes . 
`` But , '' said Agnes , with flushed cheeks , `` why does not our blessed Father excommunicate this wicked duke ? 
The monk looked up at Agnes 's clear glowing face with a sort of wondering pity . 
Agnes felt perplexed , and looked earnestly at her uncle as he stooped over his drawing , and saw that there were deep lines of anxiety on his usually clear , placid face , -- a look as of one who struggles mentally with some untold trouble . 
`` Uncle , '' she said , hesitatingly , `` may I tell Father Francesco what you have been telling me of this young man ? '' 
Agnes wondered at the heaviness of her own little heart , as her kind old uncle spoke of his coming there no more . 
Awhile ago she dreaded his visits as a most fearful temptation , and thought perhaps he might come at any hour ; now she was sure he would not , and it was astonishing what a weight fell upon her . 
she asked herself . 
And Agnes went about her morning devotions with fervent zeal , and did not see the monk as he dropped the pencil , and , covering his face with his robe , seemed to wrestle in some agony of prayer . 
`` Now , really , brother , '' said Elsie , coming towards him , and interrupting his meditations in her bustling , business way , yet speaking in a low tone that Agnes should not hear , -- `` I want you to help me with this child in a good commonsense fashion : none of your high-flying notions about saints and angels , but a little good common talk for every-day people that have their bread and salt to look after . 
Now Agnes is fond of you , brother , and perhaps it would be well for you to broach the subject . 
The fact is , when I begin to talk , she gets her arms round my old neck and falls to weeping and kissing me at such a rate as makes a fool of me . 
If the child would only be rebellious , one could do something ; but this love takes all the stiffness out of one 's joints ; and she tells me she never wants a husband , and she will be content to live with me all her life . 
The saints know it is n't for my happiness to put her out of my old arms ; but I ca n't last forever , -- my old back grows weaker every year ; and Antonio has strong arms to defend her from all these roystering fellows who fear neither God nor man , and swoop up young maids as kites do chickens . 
And then he is as gentle and manageable as a this-year ox ; Agnes can lead him by the horn , -- she will be a perfect queen over him ; for he has been brought up to mind the women . '' 
Antonio is not much of a talker ; to tell the truth , he does not know as much to say as our Agnes : but the man 's place is not to say fine things , but to do the hard work that shall support the household . '' 
`` Then Agnes hath not even seen him ? '' 
`` Yes , at different times I have bid her regard him , and said to her , ` There goes a proper man and a good Christian , -- a man who minds his work and is obedient to his old mother : such a man will make a right good husband for some girl some day . ' '' 
`` No , neither him nor any other man , for my little Agnes hath no thought of that kind ; but , once married , she will like him fast enough . 
All I want is to have you begin the subject , and get it into her head a little . '' 
Elsie took Agnes down with her to the old stand in the gateway of the town . 
Agnes was somewhat troubled and saddened this morning , and absorbed in cares quite new to her life before ; but her nature was ever kindly and social , and it had been laid under so many restrictions by her grandmother 's close method of bringing up , that it was always ready to rebound in favor of anybody to whom she allowed her to show kindness . 
`` You are very kind , I am sure , '' said Agnes . 
`` Well , then , pretty Agnes , '' said the young man , `` let me carry your basket . '' 
`` Well , you may , then , '' said Agnes , who began to wonder at the length of time her grandmother allowed this conversation to go on without interrupting it , as she generally had done when a young man was in the case . 
Quite to her astonishment , her venerable relative , instead of sticking as close to her as her shadow , was walking forward very fast without looking behind . 
Agnes found herself , therefore , quite unusually situated , alone in the company of a handsome young man , and apparently with the consent of her grandmother . 
Some girls might have felt emotions of embarrassment , or even alarm , at this new situation ; but the sacred loneliness and seclusion in which Agnes had been educated had given her a confiding fearlessness , such as voyagers have found in the birds of bright foreign islands which have never been invaded by man . 
She looked up at Antonio with a pleased , admiring smile , -- much such as she would have given , if a great handsome stag , or other sylvan companion , had stepped from the forest and looked a friendship at her through his large liquid eyes . 
She seemed , in an innocent , frank way , to like to have him walking by her , and thought him very good to carry her basket , -- though , as she told him , he need not do it , it did not tire her in the least . 
`` Nor does it tire me , pretty Agnes , '' said he , with an embarrassed laugh . 
`` But I would use my strength for you because -- I love you , gentle Agnes ! '' 
`` That is right , too , '' replied Agnes . 
`` I am sorry for that , Antonio , '' replied Agnes , gravely ; `` because I do not want to marry you . 
`` To the convent , pretty Agnes ? 
`` I would go there to live for God and pray for souls , '' said Agnes . 
`` I never heard anything of it , '' said Agnes , now for the first time feeling troubled . 
said Antonio , fixing his great velvet eyes with an honest stare on Agnes . 
`` But look here , Agnes , are you quite sure ? 
`` Look ye , Agnes , -- I did not care half as much about it this morning as I do now . 
The blood rose in Agnes 's cheeks at this very unconscious remark ; but she walked along for some time with a countenance of grave reflection . 
`` Well , Agnes , '' said Antonio , `` so you really are in earnest ? '' 
`` Oh , to be sure , I will , '' said Agnes , smiling with all the brightness her lovely face was capable of . 
`` Good-bye , '' said Agnes , cheerfully giving hers . 
Now see the advantage of such an education as I have given Agnes ! 
Instead of being betrothed to a good , honest , forehanded fellow , she might have been losing her poor , silly heart to some of these lords or gallants who throw away a girl as one does an orange when they have sucked it . 
Agnes took her seat with her usual air of thoughtful gravity , her mind seeming to be intensely preoccupied , and her grandmother , though secretly exulting in the supposed cause , resolved not to open the subject with her till they were at home or alone at night . 
`` I have my defence to make to Father Francesco , too , '' she said to herself , `` for hurrying on this betrothal against his advice ; but one must manage a little with these priests , -- the saints forgive me ! 
Meantime , when her back was turned , as she was kneeling over her basket , sorting out lemons , Agnes happened to look up , and there , just under the arch of the gateway , where she had seen him the first time , sat the cavalier on a splendid horse , with a white feather streaming backward from his black riding-hat and dark curls . 
He bowed low and kissed his hand to her , and before she knew it her eyes met his , which seemed to flash light and sunshine all through her ; and then he turned his horse and was gone through the gate , while she , filled with self-reproach , was taking her little heart to task for the instantaneous throb of happiness which had passed through her whole being at that sight . 
She had not turned away her head , nor said a prayer , as Father Francesco told her to do , because the whole thing had been sudden as a flash ; but now it was gone , she prayed , `` My God , help me not to love him ! 
But many times in the course of the day , as she twisted her flax , she found herself wondering whither he could be going . 
Had he really gone to that enchanted cloud-land , in the old purple Apennines , whither he wanted to carry her , -- gone , perhaps , never to return ? 
Was that great , splendid soul that looked out of those eyes to be forever lost , or would the pious exhortations of her uncle avail ? 
And then she thought he had said to her , that , if she would go with him , he would confess and take the sacrament , and be reconciled with the Church , and so his soul be saved . 
She resolved to tell this to Father Francesco . 
Perhaps he would -- No , -- she shivered as she remembered the severe , withering look with which the holy father had spoken of him , and the awfulness of his manner , -- he would never consent . 
And then her grandmother -- No , there was no possibility . 
Meanwhile Agnes 's good old uncle sat in the orange-shaded garden , busily perfecting his sketches ; but his mind was distracted , and his thoughts wandered , -- and often he rose , and , leaving his drawings , would pace up and down the little place , absorbed in earnest prayer . 
Agnes sat by him on the same wall , -- now glancing over his shoulder at his work , and now leaning thoughtfully on her elbow , gazing pensively down into the deep shadows of the gorge , or out where the golden light of evening streamed under the arches of the old Roman bridge , to the wide , bright sea beyond . 
She sighed at first , as she looked at these things , and then smiled with rather an air of triumph , and , coming to where Agnes reclined on the wall , held them up playfully before her . 
she said . 
said Agnes , innocently . 
But she meant her little Agnes should hold up her head with the best . 
`` Wedding finery , grandmamma , '' said Agnes , faintly , -- `` what does that mean ? '' 
`` But , Agnes , my pretty one , what can be the objection ? '' 
`` Grandmamma , remember , you promised me , -- you promisedme , '' said Agnes , looking distressed , and speaking earnestly . 
said Agnes . 
said Agnes . 
`` Now , dear grandmother , '' said Agnes , `` have I not said I would do everything for you , and work hard for you ? 
And the old soul turned and went in quite testily , leaving Agnes with a grieved heart , sitting still by her uncle . 
`` This is such a beautiful world , '' said Agnes , `` who would think it would be such a hard one to live in ? 
asked Agnes . 
said Agnes . 
But , '' she added , with hesitation , `` oh , uncle , you promised to visit him ! '' 
`` Never fear , little Agnes , -- I will do that . 
Agnes watched him departing , her heart in a strange flutter of eagerness and solicitude . 
What were these dreadful troubles which were coming upon her good uncle ? 
As she thought things over , she was burning with a repressed desire to dosomething herself to abate these troubles . 
`` I am not a knight , '' she said to herself , `` and I can not fight for the good cause . 
Holy Mother , '' she said , falling on her knees before the shrine , `` here I vow and promise that I will go praying to the Holy City . 
And by the twinkle of the flickering lamp which threw its light upon the picture , Agnes thought surely the placid face brightened to a tender maternal smile , and her enthusiastic imagination saw in this an omen of success . 
Agnes had listened to it , and parted in friendship from Antonio . 
And so the old soul took her spinning and away she went , leaving Agnes absorbed in her devotions . 
Agnes came forward anxiously to meet her uncle . 
she asked . 
Agnes 's heart sank within her ; and the monk , sitting down on the wall of the garden , clasped his hands over one knee and gazed fixedly before him . 
The sight of her uncle , -- generally so cheerful , so elastic , so full of bright thoughts and beautiful words , -- so utterly cast down , was both a mystery and a terror to Agnes . 
`` Oh , my uncle , '' she said , `` it is hard that I must not know , and that I can do nothing , when I feel ready to die for this cause ! 
said the monk , stretching his hand towards her . 
`` And all the dear saints and angels , they are not dead or idle either , '' said Agnes , her face kindling ; `` they are busy all around us . 
said Agnes , with a start of surprise . 
That crown is worth dying for , '' said Agnes . 
`` Dear uncle , I have made a solemn vow before our Holy Mother this night , '' said Agnes , `` to go on a pilgrimage to Rome , and at every shrine and holy place to pray that these great afflictions which beset all of you may have a happy issue . '' 
`` These are all Christ 's children and my brothers , '' said Agnes ; `` for them was the most holy blood shed , as well as for me . 
`` Saint Agnes still lives , dear uncle , -- and He who kept her in worse trial . 
He walked up and down the little garden , apparently forgetful of Agnes or of any earthly presence , and in the last verses stretched his hands towards heaven with streaming tears and a fervor of utterance indescribable . 
`` Come now , my little one , '' said the monk , after they had ceased singing , as he laid his hand on Agnes 's head . 
said Agnes . 
`` And is there any message from my little Agnes to this young man ? '' 
Say to him that Agnes prays daily that he may be a worthy son and soldier of the Lord Jesus . '' 
Thecourse of our story requires us to return to the Capuchin convent , and to the struggles and trials of its Superior ; for in his hands is the irresistible authority which must direct the future life of Agnes . 
From no guilty compliances , no heedless running into temptation , had he come to love her . 
But he felt that somethingmust be done with himself , and done immediately ; for in a few days he must again meet Agnes at the confessional . 
He must meet her , not with weak tremblings and passionate fears , but calm as Fate , inexorable as the Judgment-Day . 
He must hear her confession , not as man , but as God ; he must pronounce his judgments with a divine dispassionateness . 
He must dive into the recesses of her secret heart , and , following with subtile analysis all the fine courses of those fibres which were feeling their blind way towards an earthly love , must tear them remorselessly away . 
Well could he warn her of the insidiousness of earthly affections ; better than any one else he could show her how a name that was blended with her prayers and borne before the sacred shrine in her most retired and solemn hours might at last come to fill all her heart with a presence too dangerously dear . 
He must direct her gaze up those mystical heights where an unearthly marriage awaited her , its sealed and spiritual bride ; he must hurry her footsteps onward to the irrevocable issue . 
That evening , while Agnes and her uncle were sitting together in their orange-garden , mingling their parting prayers and hymns , scenes of a very different description surrounded the Father Francesco . 
Afterthe departure of her uncle to Florence , the life of Agnes was troubled and harassed from a variety of causes . 
First , her grandmother was sulky and moody , and though saying nothing directly on the topic nearest her heart , yet intimating by every look and action that she considered Agnes as a most ungrateful and contumacious child . 
Cheerful , airy , and elastic in his temperament , always full of fresh-springing and beautiful thoughts , as an Italian dell is of flowers , the charming old man seemed , while he stayed with Agnes , to be the door of a new and fairer world , where she could walk in air and sunshine , and find utterance for a thousand thoughts and feelings which at all other times lay in cold repression in her heart . 
His counsels were always so wholesome , his sympathies so quick , his devotion so fervent and cheerful , that while with him Agnes felt the burden of her life insensibly lifted and carried for her as by some angel guide . 
Now they had all come back upon her , heavier a thousand-fold than ever they had been before . 
Never did she so much need counsel and guidance , -- never had she so much within herself to be solved and made plain to her own comprehension ; yet she thought with a strange shiver of her next visit to her confessor . 
That austere man , so chilling , so awful , so far above all conception of human weaknesses , how should she dare to lay before him all the secrets of her breast , especially when she must confess to having disobeyed his most stringent commands ? 
She had had another interview with this forbidden son of perdition , but how it was she knew not . 
Instead of shutting her eyes and turning her head and saying prayers , she had listened to a passionate declaration of love , and his last word had called her his wife . 
Her heart thrilled every time she thought of it ; and somehow she could not feel sure that it was exactly a thrill of penitence . 
It was all like a strange dream to her ; and sometimes she looked at her little brown hands and wondered if he really had kissed them , -- he , the splendid strange vision of a man , the prince from fairy-land ! 
Agnes had never read romances , it is true , but she had been brought up on the legends of the saints , and there never was a marvel possible to human conception that had not been told there . 
Princes had come from China and Barbary and Abyssinia and every other strange out-of-the-way place , to kneel at the feet of fair , obdurate saints who would not even turn the head to look at them ; but she had acted , she was conscious , after a much more mortal fashion , and so made herself work for confession and penance . 
Yet certainly she had not meant to do so ; the interview came on her so suddenly , so unexpectedly ; and somehow he wouldspeak , and he would not go when she asked him to ; and she remembered how he looked when he stood right before her in the door-way and told her she shouldhear him , -- how the color flushed up in his cheeks , what a fire there was in his great dark eyes ; he looked as if he were going to do something desperate then ; it made her hold her breath even now to think of it . 
`` These princes and nobles , '' she thought , `` are so used to command , it is no wonder they make us feel as if they must have their will . 
Such were the thoughts of Agnes the day when she was preparing for her confession ; and all the way to church she found them floating and dissolving and reappearing in new forms in her mind , like the silvery smoke-clouds which were constantly veering and sailing over Vesuvius . 
When Agnes began her confession , her voice seemed to him to pass through every nerve ; it seemed as if he could feel her presence thrilling through the very wood of the confessional . 
But when she began to speak of the interview with the cavalier , he trembled from head to foot with uncontrollable passion . 
But he set his teeth in deadly resolve , and his voice , as he questioned her , came forth cutting and cold as ice crystals . 
`` Examine your soul well , '' said Father Francesco , in a tone of austere severity that made Agnes tremble . 
`` My father , I fear I did , '' said she , with a trembling voice . 
Agnes thought the solemn pause that followed was caused by the horror that had been inspired by her own sinfulness . 
`` Yet you say you found pleasure in his being near you , '' said Father Francesco , conscious how every string of his own being , even in this awful hour , was vibrating with a sort of desperate , miserable joy in being once more near to her . 
`` Ah , '' sighed Agnes , `` that is true , my father , -- woe is me ! 
`` I havethought of it , '' faltered Agnes . 
`` I do not understand myself exactly , '' said Agnes . 
Agnes shivered and trembled ; a vague feeling of guilt overwhelmed and disheartened her ; she seemed to herself the most lost and abandoned of human beings . 
This proposition of Agnes ' struck him as a compromise . 
It would take her from him only for a season , she would go under his care and direction , and he would gradually recover his calmness and self-possession in her absence . 
Her pilgrimage to the holy places would be a most proper and fit preparation for the solemn marriage-rite which should forever sunder her from all human ties , and make her inaccessible to all solicitations of human love . 
`` My father , '' said Agnes , `` it has always been in my heart from my childhood to be the bride of the Lord ; but my grandmother , who brought me up , and to whom I owe the obedience of a daughter , utterly forbids me : she will not hear a word of it . 
`` Yes , '' replied Agnes , with a sort of hardy sweetness , -- `` but my Lord does not need me as grandmother does ; He is in glory , and will never be old or feeble ; I can not work for Him and tend Him as I shall her . 
`` I have grievously offended her lately , '' said Agnes , `` in rejecting an offer of marriage with a man on whom she had set her heart , and therefore she does not listen to me as she is wont to do . '' 
Agnes departed from the confessional without even looking upon the face of her director , who sat within listening to the rustle of her dress as she rose , -- listening to the soft fall of her departing footsteps , and praying that grace might be given him not to look after her : and he did not , though he felt as if his life were going with her . 
Agnes tripped round the aisle to a little side-chapel where a light was always kept burning by her before a picture of Saint Agnes , and , kneeling there , waited till her grandmother should be through with her confession . 
`` Ah , sweet Saint Agnes , '' she said , `` pity me ! 
Agnes rose from her devotions , and went with downcast eyes , her lips still repeating prayers , to the font of holy water , which was in a dim shadowy corner , where a painted window cast a gold and violet twilight . 
Suddenly there was a rustle of garments in the dimness , and a jewelled hand essayed to pass holy water to her on the tip of its finger . 
This mark of Christian fraternity , common in those times , Agnes almost mechanically accepted , touching her slender finger to the one extended , and making the sign of the cross , while she raised her eyes to see who stood there . 
Gradually the haze cleared from her mind , and she awoke to the consciousness that it was the cavalier ! 
He moved to come towards her , with a bright smile on his face ; but suddenly she became pale as one who has seen a spectre , and , pushing from her with both hands , she said faintly , `` Go , go ! '' 
and turned and sped up the aisle silently as a sunbeam , joining her grandmother , who was coming from the confessional with a gloomy and sullen brow . 
`` Well , now , I hope you are satisfied , '' she said to Agnes , as she pulled her along with no very gentle hand ; `` you 've got me sent off on a pilgrimage , -- and my old bones must be rattling up and down all the hills between here and Rome , -- and who 's to see to the oranges ? 
`` Grandmother , '' began Agnes in a pleading voice -- `` Oh , you hush up ! 
Agnes walked along disconsolate , with her eyes full of tears , which coursed one another down her pale cheeks . 
`` Well , well , Saint Agnes be praised , I have found you at last , '' she said . 
`` Ah , now , there 's Antonio , and old Meta his mother , '' said Jocunda , with a knowing wink at Agnes . 
That evening , as Agnes was sitting in the garden at sunset , her grandmother bustling in and out , talking , groaning , and hurrying in her preparations for the anticipated undertaking , suddenly there was a rustling in the branches overhead , and a bouquet of rose-buds fell at her feet . 
Agnes picked it up , and saw a scrip of paper coiled among the flowers . 
In a moment remembering the apparition of the cavalier in the church in the morning , she doubted not from whom it came . 
So dreadful had been the effect of the scene at the confessional , that the thought of the near presence of her lover brought only terror . 
She turned pale ; her hands shook . 
She shut her eyes , and prayed that she might not be left to read the paper ; and then , summoning all her resolution , she threw the bouquet with force over the wall . 
It had never occurred to him that Agnes would not even read it , and he stood confounded when he saw it thrown back with such apparent rudeness . 
He remembered her pale , terrified look on seeing him in the morning . 
He had learned from Father Antonio the intention of Agnes to go on a pilgrimage , and he longed to see and talk with her , that he might offer her his protection against dangers which he understood far better than she . 
But poor Agnes had the woman 's share of the misery to bear , in the fear and self-reproach and distress which every movement of this kind cost her . 
From that day Agnes wore upon her heart one of those sharp instruments of torture which in those times were supposed to be a means of inward grace , -- a cross with seven steel points for the seven sorrows of Mary . 
There arose to her memory , like a picture , those princely halls , with their slippery , cold mosaic floors , their long galleries of statues and paintings , their enchanting gardens , musical with the voice of mossy fountains , fragrant with the breath of roses and jasmines , where the mother of Agnes had spent the hours of her youth and beauty . 
She seemed to see her flitting hither and thither down the stately ilex-avenues , like some gay singing-bird , to whom were given gilded cages and a constant round of caresses and sweets , or like the flowers in the parterres , which lived and died only as the graceful accessories of the grandeur of an old princely family . 
She compared , mentally , the shaded and secluded life which Agnes had led with the specious and fatal brilliancy which had been the lot of her mother , -- her simple peasant garb with those remembered visions of jewelry and silk and embroideries with which the partial patronage of the Duchess or the ephemeral passion of her son had decked out the poor Isella ; and then came swelling at her heart a tumultuous thought , one which she had repressed and kept down for years with all the force of pride and hatred . 
Agnes , peasant-girl though she seemed , had yet the blood of that proud old family in her veins ; the marriage had been a true one ; she herself had witnessed it . 
`` Yes , indeed , '' she said to herself , `` were justice done , she would now be a princess , -- a fit mate for the nobles of the land ; and here I ask no more than to mate her to an honest smith , -- I that have seen a prince kneel to kiss her mother 's hand , -- yes , he did , -- entreat her on his knees to be his wife , -- I saw it . 
To Agnes she seemed more than ever severe and hard ; yet probably there never was a time when every pulse of her heart was beating more warmly for the child , and every thought of the future was more entirely regulated with reference to her welfare . 
It is no sinecure to have the entire devotion of a strong , enterprising , self-willed friend , as Agnes had all her life found . 
Agnes tried several times to offer her help to her grandmother , but was refused so roughly that she dared not offer again , and therefore went to her favorite station by the parapet in the garden , whence she could look up and down the gorge , and through the arches of the old mossy Roman bridge that spanned it far down by the city-wall . 
All these things had become dear to her by years of familiar silent converse . 
The little garden , with its old sculptured basin , and the ever-lulling dash of falling water , -- the tremulous draperies of maiden 's - hair , always beaded with shining drops , -- the old shrine , with its picture , its lamp , and flower-vase , -- the tall , dusky orange-trees , so full of blossoms and fruit , so smooth and shining in their healthy bark , -- all seemed to her as so many dear old friends whom she was about to leave , perhaps forever . 
What this pilgrimage would be like , she scarcely knew : days and weeks of wandering , -- over mountain-passes , -- in deep , solitary valleys , -- as years ago , when her grandmother brought her , a little child , from Rome . 
In the last few weeks , Agnes seemed to herself to have become wholly another being . 
Silently , insensibly , her feet had crossed the enchanted river that divides childhood from womanhood , and all the sweet ignorant joys of that first early paradise lay behind her . 
Up to this time her life had seemed to her a charming dream , full of blessed visions and images : legends of saints , and hymns , and prayers had blended with flower-gatherings in the gorge , and light daily toils . 
Now , a new , strange life had been born within her , -- a life full of passions , contradictions , and conflicts . 
A love had sprung up in her heart , strange and wonderful , for one who till within these few weeks had been entirely unknown to her , who had never toiled for , or housed , or clothed , or cared for her as her grandmother had , and yet whom a few short interviews , a few looks , a few words , had made to seem nearer and dearer than the old , tried friends of her childhood . 
In vain she confessed it as a sin , -- in vain she strove against it ; it came back to her in every hymn , in every prayer . 
Then she would press the sharp cross to her breast , till a thousand stings of pain would send the blood in momentary rushes to her pale cheek , and cause her delicate lips to contract with an expression of stern endurance , and pray that by any penance and anguish she might secure his salvation . 
To save one such glorious soul , she said to herself , was work enough for one little life . 
She was willing to spend it all in endurance , unseen by him , unknown to him , so that at last he should be received into that Paradise which her ardent imagination conceived so vividly . 
Surely , there she should meet him , radiant as the angel of her dream ; and then she would tell him that it was all for his sake that she had refused to listen to him here . 
And these sinful longings to see him once more , these involuntary reachings of her soul after an earthly companionship , she should find strength to overcome in this pilgrimage . 
She should go to Rome , -- the very city where the blessed Paul poured out his blood for the Lord Jesus , -- where Peter fed the flock , till his time , too , came to follow his Lord in the way of the cross . 
She should even come near to her blessed Redeemer ; she should go up , on her knees , those very steps to Pilate 's hall where He stood bleeding , crowned with thorns , -- His blood , perhaps , dropping on the very stones . 
Ah , could any mortal love distract her there ? 
Should she not there find her soul made free of every earthly thrall to love her Lord alone , -- as she had loved Him in the artless and ignorant days of her childhood , -- but better , a thousand times ? 
said a voice from without the garden-wall ; and Agnes , roused from her revery , saw old Jocunda . 
`` I came down to help you off , '' she said , as she came into the little garden . 
Please Saint Agnes , you 'll have a brave pilgrimage . '' 
`` Saint Agnes be hanged ! '' 
`` I 'm out with her . 
It was she put all these notions into my girl 's head . 
Because she did n't get married herself , she do n't want any one else to . 
She has no consideration . 
I 've done with her : I told her so this morning . 
The candles I 've burned and the prayers I 've gone through with , that she might prosper me in this one thing ! 
She 's a baggage , and shall never see another penny of mine , -- that 's flat ! '' 
`` What is the use of making her angry just as you are going to Rome , where she has the most power ? 
Make up with her before you start , or you may get the fever in the marshes and die , and then who will take care of poor Agnes ? '' 
`` Let Saint Agnes look after her ; the girl loves her better than she does me or anybody else , '' said Elsie . 
`` If she cared anything about me , she 'd marry and settle down , as I want her to . '' 
said Jocunda , coming out , -- `` Agnes , your grandmother bids you go to the convent to say good-by to the sisters ; so run along , there 's a little dear . 
said Agnes , her eyes filling with tears . 
Agnes hastily arranged a little basket of fruit and flowers , and took her way down through the gorge , under the Roman bridge , through an orange-orchard , and finally came out upon the sea-shore , and so along the sands below the cliffs on which the old town of Sorrento is situated . 
So cheating and inconsistent is the human heart , especially in the feminine subject , that she had more than once occasion to chide herself for the thrill with which she remembered passing the cavalier once in this orange-garden , and the sort of vague hope which she detected that somewhere along this road he might appear again . 
`` How perfectly wicked and depraved I must be , '' she said to herself , `` to find any pleasure in such a thought of one I should pray never to meet again ! '' 
And so the little soul went on condemning herself in those exaggerated terms which the religious vocabulary of conventual life furnished ready-made for the use of penitents of every degree , till by the time she arrived at the convent she could scarcely have been more oppressed with a sense of sin , if she had murdered her grandmother and eloped with the cavalier . 
On her arrival in the convent court , the peaceful and dreamy stillness contrasted strangely with the gorgeous brightness of the day outside . 
The splendid sunshine , the sparkling sea , the songs of the boatmen , the brisk passage of gliding sails , the bright hues of the flowers that garlanded the rocks , all seemed as if the earth had been arrayed for some gala-day ; but the moment she had passed the portal , the silent , mossy court , with its pale marble nymph , its lull of falling water , its turf snow-dropt with daisies and fragrant with blue and white violets , and the surrounding cloistered walks , with their pictured figures of pious history , all came with a sad and soothing influence on her nerves . 
The nuns , who had heard the news of the projected pilgrimage , and regarded it as the commencement of that saintly career which they had always predicted for her , crowded around her , kissing her hands and her robe , and entreating her prayers at different shrines of especial sanctity that she might visit . 
said Agnes , covering her face with her hands . 
Still there was a faint flutter of curiosity , as she pressed Agnes to tell her story , which she did with many pauses and sobs and blushes . 
said Agnes , fervently ; `` and , mother , though he is excommunicated , I ca n't help feeling that he is as good as he is beautiful . 
Even old Elsie 's stern features relaxed somewhat under the balmy influences of sun and sky , and Agnes 's young , pale face was lit up with a brighter color than for many a day before . 
It is true that this was quite contrary to the wishes of Agnes , who felt that the journey ought to be performed in the most toilsome and self-renouncing way , and that they should trust solely to prayer and spiritual protection to ward off the pestilential exhalations . 
In vain she quoted the Psalm , `` Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night , nor for the arrow that flieth by day , nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness , nor for the destruction that wasteth at noon-day , '' and adduced cases of saints who had walked unhurt through all sorts of dangers . 
`` You are tired , my little heart , '' said old Elsie to Agnes , who had drooped during a longer walk than usual . 
`` No , grandmamma , '' said Agnes , sinking on her knees to repeat her evening prayer , which she did , covering her face with her hands . 
With a sudden movement , two of the men dismounted , confronted the travellers , and the one who had acted as spokesman , approaching Agnes , said , in a tone somewhat imperative , -- `` Come , young lady , it is our master 's will that your poor little feet should have some rest . '' 
And before Agnes could remonstrate , he raised her into the saddle as easily as if she had been a puff of thistle-down , and then turning to Elsie , he said , -- `` For you , good mother , if you wish to keep up , you must e ` en be content with a seat behind me . '' 
Elsie looked and saw Agnes already some distance before her , the bridle of her palfrey being held by one of the horsemen , who rode by her side and seemed to look after her carefully ; and so , without more ado , she accepted the services of the man , and , placing her foot on the toe of his riding-boot , mounted to the crupper behind him . 
Notwithstanding the surprise and alarm of this most unexpected adventure , Agnes , who had been at the very point of exhaustion from fatigue , could not but feel the sensation of relief and repose which the seat in an easy saddle gave her . 
The mountain air , as they arose , breathed fresh and cold on her brow , and a prospect of such wondrous beauty unrolled beneath her feet that her alarm soon became lost in admiration . 
Soothed by the hour , refreshed by the air , and filled with admiration for the beauty of all she saw , she surrendered herself to her situation with a feeling of solemn religious calm , as to some unfolding of the Divine Will , which might unroll like the landscape beneath her . 
Agnes could only remember clambering upward , turning short corners , clattering down steep stone steps , under low archways , along narrow , ill-smelling passages , where the light that seemed so clear without the town was almost extinguished in utter night . 
Here the men suddenly drew up , and Agnes 's conductor , dismounting , came and took her silently from her saddle , saying briefly , `` Come this way . '' 
Agnes looked back at her grandmother . 
`` Fear not , dear grandmamma , '' she said , `` the blessed angels will watch over us . '' 
As she spoke , she followed her conductor through long , damp , mouldering passages , and up flights of stone steps , and again through other long passages , smelling of mould and damp , till at last he opened the door of an apartment from which streamed a light so dazzling to the eyes of Agnes that at first she could form no distinct conception as to where she was . 
As soon as her eyesight cleared , she found herself in an apartment which to her simplicity seemed furnished with an unheard-of luxury . 
Agnes stood petrified with amazement , and put her hand to her head , as if to assure herself by the sense of touch that she was not dreaming , and then , with an impulse of curious wonder , began examining the apartment . 
The rich furniture and the many adornments , though only such as were common in the daily life of the great at that period , had for her simple eyes all the marvellousness of the most incredible illusion . 
She touched the velvet couches almost with fear , and passed from object to object in a sort of maze . 
When she arrived at the alcove , she thought she heard a suasion of removing a barrier that was so vitally interwoven with the most sensitive religious nerves of her being . 
He saw in her terrified looks , in the deadly paleness of her face , how real and unaffected was the anguish which his words gave her ; he saw that the very consciousness of her own love to him produced a sense of weakness which made her shrink in utter terror from his arguments . 
`` There is no remedy , '' he said , `` but to let her go to Rome and see with her own eyes how utterly false and vain is the vision which she draws from the purity of her own believing soul . 
Agnes looks forward and sees the saintly forms on St. John Lateran standing in a cloud of golden light and stretching out protecting hands to bless her . 
she exclaimed , -- `` yonder is our Father 's house , and all the saints beckon us home ! 
Singularly enough , one of the first items in the confession of the Capuchin Superior related to Agnes , and his story was in substance as follows . 
If any should wonder that a Christian soul could preserve within itself an image so ignorantly fair , in such an age , when the worldliness and corruption in the Papal chair were obtruded by a thousand incidental manifestations , and were alluded to in all the calculations of simple common people , who looked at facts with a mere view to the guidance of their daily conduct , it is necessary to remember the nature of Agnes 's religious training , and the absolute renunciation of all individual reasoning which from infancy had been laid down before her as the first and indispensable prerequisite of spiritual progress . 
To believe , -- to believe utterly and blindly , -- not only without evidence , but against evidence , -- to reject the testimony even of her senses , when set against the simple affirmation of her superiors , -- had been the beginning , middle , and end of her religious instruction . 
When a doubt assailed her mind on any point , she had been taught to retire within herself and repeat a prayer ; and in this way her mental eye had formed the habit of closing to anything that might shake her faith as quickly as the physical eye closes at a threatened blow . 
Then , as she was of a poetic and ideal nature , entirely differing from the mass of those with whom she associated , she had formed that habit of abstraction and mental revery which prevented her hearing or perceiving the true sense of a great deal that went on around her . 
The conversations that commonly were carried on in her presence had for her so little interest that she scarcely heard them . 
The world in which she moved was a glorified world , -- wherein , to be sure , the forms of every-day life appeared , but appeared as different from what they were in reality as the old mouldering daylight view of Rome is from the warm translucent glory of its evening transfiguration . 
So in her quiet , silent heart she nursed this beautiful hope of finding in Rome the earthly image of her Saviour 's home above , of finding in the head of the Church the real image of her Redeemer , -- the friend to whom the poorest and lowliest may pour out their souls with as much freedom as the highest and noblest . 
The spiritual directors who had formed the mind of Agnes in her early days had been persons in the same manner taught to move in an ideal world of faith . 
Agnes and her grandmother entered the city of Rome just as the twilight had faded into night ; and though Agnes , full of faith and enthusiasm , was longing to begin immediately the ecstatic vision of shrines and holy places , old Elsie commanded her not to think of anything further that night . 
When Agnes and Elsie arrived , several of these volunteer assistants were in waiting . 
Agnes was remarked among all the rest of the company for her peculiar beauty and the rapt enthusiastic expression of her face . 
So saying , the Princess Paulina crossed the hall , and , bending affably over Agnes , took her hand and kissed her , saying , -- `` Welcome , my dear little sister , to the house of our Father ! '' 
Agnes looked up with strange , wondering eyes into the face that was bent to hers . 
Instinctively she felt that the lady was of superior birth and breeding to any with whom she had been in the habit of associating . 
`` She is my grandmother , '' said Agnes . 
The Princess Paulina drew the hand of Agnes through her arm , and , laying her hand affectionately on it , looked down and smiled tenderly on her . 
said Agnes , -- `` I am so happy , so blessed to be here ! '' 
said Agnes . 
`` I am not good , my child , -- I am only your unworthy sister in Christ ; '' and as the lady spoke , she opened the door into a room where were a number of other female pilgrims seated around the wall , each attended by a person whose peculiar care she seemed to be . 
The Princess Paulina performed all these offices for Agnes with a tender earnestness which won upon her heart . 
`` Please tell me , dear lady , '' said Agnes , after supper , `` who is that holy man that prayed with us ? '' 
`` I should like to have spoken with him , '' said Agnes . 
`` I know he is , '' said Agnes , -- `` and so is our Lord Jesus , -- but every soul may come to him . '' 
`` Well , I will not , '' said Agnes , with a glance of docile affection , kissing the hand of the Princess . 
Themorning after her arrival in Rome , Agnes was awakened from sleep by a solemn dropping of bell-tones which seemed to fill the whole air , intermingled dimly at intervals with long-drawn plaintive sounds of chanting . 
She had slept profoundly , overwearied with her pilgrimage , and soothed by that deep lulling sense of quiet which comes over one , when , after long and weary toils , some auspicious goal is at length reached . 
She had come to Rome , and been received with open arms into the household of the saints , and seen even those of highest degree imitating the simplicity of the Lord in serving the poor . 
Surely , this was indeed the house of God and the gate of heaven ; and so the bell-tones and chants , mingling with her dreams , seemed naturally enough angel-harpings and distant echoes of the perpetual adoration of the blessed . 
She rose and dressed herself with a tremulous joy . 
She felt full of hope that somehow -- in what way she could not say -- this auspicious beginning would end in a full fruition of all her wishes , an answer to all her prayers . 
`` The air of this holy place revives me , '' said Agnes , with enthusiasm . 
said Agnes , -- `` that dear lady was so kind to me ! '' 
`` Oh , grandmother , '' said Agnes , `` how can you say so ? 
said Agnes , joyfully . 
`` No other king is worthy of it , '' said Agnes . 
The streets of Rome through which they walked were damp and cellar-like , filthy and ill-paved ; but Agnes neither saw nor felt anything of inconvenience in this : had they been floored , like those of the New Jerusalem , with translucent gold , her faith could not have been more fervent . 
Neither Agnes nor Elsie , therefore , was surprised , when they passed through the door-way to the street , at the apparition of a man covered from head to foot in a long robe of white serge , with a highpeaked cap of the same material drawn completely down over his head and face . 
Agnes and her grandmother each dropped therein a small coin and went on their way ; but the figure followed them at a little distance behind , keeping carefully within sight of them . 
Agnes knelt , too , with clasped hands , adoring the sacred vision enshrined in her soul ; and as she knelt with upraised eyes , her cheeks flushed with enthusiasm , her beauty attracted the attention of more than one in the procession . 
The young man to whom he spoke gave a bold glance at Agnes and answered , -- `` Pretty little rogue , how well she does the saint ! '' 
And as they were passing into the church-door , he beckoned to a servant in waiting and whispered something , indicating Agnes with a backward movement of his hand . 
The servant , after this , kept cautiously within observing distance of her , as she with the crowd pressed into the church to assist at the devotions . 
But to the pure all things are pure , and Agnes thought only of the enthronement of all virtues , of all celestial charities and unworldly purities in that splendid ceremonial , and longed within herself to approach so near as to touch the hem of those wondrous and sacred garments . 
It was to her enthusiastic imagination like the unclosing of celestial doors , where the kings and priests of an eternal and heavenly temple move to and fro in music , with the many-colored glories of rainbows and sunset clouds . 
Her whole nature was wrought upon by the sights and sounds of that gorgeous worship , -- she seemed to burn and brighten like an altarcoal , her figure appeared to dilate , her eyes grew deeper and shone with a starry light , and the color of her cheeks flushed up with a vivid glow , -- nor was she aware how often eyes were turned upon her , nor how murmurs of admiration followed all her absorbed , unconscious movements . 
was often repeated from mouth to mouth around her , but she heard it not . 
Suddenly a servant in a gorgeous scarlet livery touched Agnes on the shoulder , and said , in a tone of authority , -- `` Young maiden , your presence is commanded . '' 
`` I shall go with you , Agnes , '' said Elsie , resolutely . 
Agnes looked round and smiled on her , -- a smile full of innocent trust , -- and then , turning , followed the servant into the finest of the equipages , where she was lost to view . 
Your child is followed by those who will save her . 
She runs into the piazza , and sees dismounting a knight who carries Agnes in his arms pale and fainting . 
The timid Princess was so fluttered and bewildered that she lost all presence of mind , and stood in uncomprehending wonder , while Monica pushed authoritatively into the house , and beckoned the knight to bring Agnes and lay her on a sofa , when she and old Elsie busied themselves vigorously with restoratives . 
The moon cast silver gleams through the ilex-avenues , and caused the jet of the great fountain to look like a wavering pillar of cloudy brightness , when the Princess led forth Agnes upon the wide veranda . 
Then lifting Agnes to her seat , he placed the reins in her hand . 
It was the first time since her rescue that he had spoken to Agnes . 
`` Yes , my Lord , '' said Agnes firmly , `` I am rested . '' 
`` I can bear anything , so I escape , '' she said . 
A body of armed men rode in front ; then came Agnes and the Princess , with Agostino between them , while two or three troopers rode on either side ; Elsie , Monica , and the servants of the Princess followed close behind , and the rear was brought up in like manner by armed men . 
said Agnes , `` did they break into the convent of the San Marco ? 
said Agnes , in astonishment . 
He turned to her , as he spoke , and saw in the moonlight a flash from her eye , and an heroic expression on her face , such as he had never remarked before ; but she said nothing . 
The veil had been rudely torn from her eyes ; she had seen with horror the defilement and impurity of what she had ignorantly adored in holy places , and the revelation seemed to have wrought a change in her whole nature . 
`` Even you could fight , Agnes , '' said the knight , `` to save your religion from disgrace . '' 
`` No , '' said she ; `` but , '' she added , with gathering firmness , `` I could die . 
said the knight , bending towards her , as if to adjust her bridle-rein , and speaking in a voice scarcely audible . 
Agnes glanced timidly up at him . 
How great the change in her ideas ! 
What injustice had she done him , and how patiently had he borne that injustice ! 
Had he not sought to warn her against the danger of venturing into that corrupt city ? 
Those words which so much shocked her , against which she had shut her ears , were all true ; she had found them so ; she could doubt no longer . 
And yet he had followed her , and saved her at the risk of his life . 
Could she help loving one who had loved her so much , one so noble and heroic ? 
She pondered the dark warnings of Father Francesco , and then thought of the cheerful , fervent piety of her old uncle . 
The secret of her birth had been told her by the Princess , who claimed her as kinswoman . 
It had seemed to her at first like the revelations of a dream ; but as she rode and reflected , gradually the idea shaped itself in her mind . 
She was , in birth and blood , the equal of her lover , and henceforth her life would no more be in that lowly plane where it had always moved . 
She thought of the little orange-garden at Sorrento , of the gorge with its old bridge , the Convent , the sisters , with a sort of tender , wondering pain . 
Perhaps she should see them no more . 
In this new situation she longed once more to see and talk with her old uncle , and to have him tell her what were her duties . 
Whatever might be the roughness and difficulties of the way , Agnes found her knight ever at her bridle-rein , guiding and upholding , steadying her in her saddle when the horse plunged down short and sudden descents , and wrapping her in his mantle to protect her from the chill mountain-air . 
So saying , he assisted her and Agnes to dismount , and Elsie and Monica also alighting , they followed the woman into a dark stone passage and up some rude stone steps . 
Father Antonio , Baccio della Porta , Agostino Sarelli , the Princess Paulina , Agnes , with her grandmother , and a mixed crowd of citizens and ecclesiastics , who all spoke in hushed and tremulous voices , as men do in the chamber of mourners at a funeral . 
A fewdays after the death of Savonarola , Father Antonio was found one morning engaged in deep converse with Agnes . 
`` Yes , my father , I do , '' said Agnes ; `` but ought I not to resign this love for the love of my Saviour ? '' 
`` So , Agnes , '' said the knight , who had stolen into the room unperceived , and who now boldly possessed himself of one of her hands -- `` Father Antonio hath decided this matter , '' he added , turning to the Princess and Elsie , who entered , `` and everything having been made ready for my journey into France , the wedding ceremony shall take place on the morrow , and , for that we are in deep affliction , it shall be as private as may be . '' 
