And when , at last , she lay dying in her brother 's arms , with her golden head upon his breast , she had given back the ring , and said , `` I am going , Richard , where there are far more beautiful things than this , ` for eye hath not seen , neither hath it entered into the heart of man , the things prepared for those who love Him , ' and I do love Him , brother , and feel His arms around me now as sensibly as I feel yours . 
All this Richard Markham had told to Ethelyn as they stood for a few minutes upon the beach of the pond , with its waters breaking softly upon the sands at their feet , and the young spring moon shining down upon them like Daisy 's eyes , as the brother described them when they last looked on him . 
There was a picture of Daisy in their best room at home , an oil-painting made by a travelling artist , Richard said , and some day Ethelyn would see it , for she had promised to be his wife , and the engagement-ring , -- Daisy 's ring , -- was on her finger , sparkling in the moonbeams , just as it used to sparkle when the dead girl held it in the light . 
This was a good deal for Richard Markham to say , for he was not given to poetry , or sentiment , or imagery ; but Ethelyn 's face and Ethelyn 's eyes had played strange antics with the staid , matter-of-fact man of Western Iowa , and stirred his blood as it had never been stirred before . 
What Aunt Barbara had said was strictly true , for there had been a time when proud old Colonel Markham ignored the brother 's family living on the far prairies of the West ; but when the eldest son , Richard , called for him , had be come a growing man , as boys out West are apt to do , -- rising from Justice of the Peace to a member of the State Legislature , then to a Judgeship , and finally to a seat in Congress , and all before he was thirty-two , -- the Colonel 's tactics changed , and a most cordial letter addressed to `` My very dear nephew , '' and signed `` Your affectionate uncle , '' was sent to Washington , urging a visit from the young man ere he returned to Iowa . 
And that was how Richard Markham , M.C. , came to be in Chicopee at the precise time when Ethelyn 's heart was bleeding at every pore , and she was ready to seize upon any new excitement which could divert it from its pain . 
Frank was in Chicopee then , fishing on the river , when her mishap occurred ; and once after that , when walking with him , she had met Richard Markham , who bowed modestly and passed on , never taking his hands from the pockets where they were planted so firmly , and never touching his hat , as Frank said a gentlemanwould have done . 
If Frank Van Buren , whose pants , and coats , and neck-ties , and hats , were always the latest make , said that Richard Markham was a gawky , he wasone , and henceforth , during his stay in Chicopee , the Western young man was regarded by Ethelyn with a feeling akin to pity for his benighted condition . 
Aunt Barbara 's pew was very near to Colonel Markham 's ; and Richard , who was not much of a churchman , and as often as any way lounged upon the faded damask curtains instead of standing up , often met Ethelyn 's eyes fixed curiously upon him , but never dreamed that she regarded him as a species of heathen , whom it would be a pious act to Christianize . 
Richard rarely thought of himself at all , or , if he did , it was with a feeling that he `` was well enough ; '' that if his mother and `` the neighbors '' were satisfied with him , as he knew they were , he ought to be satisfied with himself . 
He was standing with his elbow upon the mantel , talking to Susie Granger , when Ethelyn entered Mrs. Markham 's parlor ; one foot was carelessly crossed over the other , so that only the toe of the boot touched the carpet , while his hand grasped his handkerchief rather awkwardly . 
This last really did the most to turn the scale in Richard 's favor , for , like many a poor deluded girl , she fancied that marrying was the surest way to forget a past which it was not pleasant to remember . 
And so , when Aunt Sophie had gone back to the city , and Judge Markham was about to return to his Western home , she rode with him around the Pond , and when she came back the dead Daisy 's ring was upon her finger , and she was a promised wife . 
A dozen times since then she had been tempted to write to Richard Markham , asking to be released from her engagement ; for , bad as she has thus far appeared to the reader , there were many noble traits in her character , and she shrank from wronging the man of whom she knew she was not worthy . 
But the deference paid her as Mrs. Judge Markham elect , the delight of Aunt Sophie , the approbation of Aunt Barbara , the letter of congratulation sent her by Mrs. Senator Woodhull , Richard 's cousin , and more than all , Frank 's discomfiture as evinced by the complaining note he sent her after her engagement was announced , prevailed to keep her to her promise ; and the bridegroom , when he came in June to claim her hand , little guessed how heavy was the heart of the young girl who so passively suffered his caresses , but whose lips never moved in response to the kiss he pressed upon them . 
She wished he would stay away , -- she would rather not see him till night ; and she experienced a feeling of relief when , about nine o'clock , Mrs. Markham 's maid brought her a little note , which read as follows : `` Darling Ethie : -- You must not think strange if I do not come to you this morning , for I am suffering from one of my blinding headaches , and can scarcely see to write you this . 
COLONEL MARKHAM 'S carryall , which Jake , the hired man , had brushed up for the occasion , had gone over to West Chicopee after the party from Boston , -- Mrs. Dr. Van Buren , with Frank and his betrothed , Miss Nettie Hudson , from Philadelphia . 
She had hesitated in her choice of a dress , vacillating between a pale buff , which Frank had always admired , and a delicate blue muslin , in which Judge Markham had once said she looked so pretty . 
Ethelyn felt better after paying this tribute to Richard Markham , and she liked him better , too , now that she had spoken for him , but Frank 's reply , `` Yes , mother told me so , but said there was a good deal of your Westernism about him yet , '' jarred on her feelings as she plucked the roses growing at the end of the piazza and crushed them , thorns and all , in her hands , feeling the smart less than the dull , heavy throbbing at her heart . 
She had never mentioned Washington to Richard Markham , and he had never guessed how much that prospective season at the Capital had to do with her decision . 
That it would be hers to enjoy she had no shadow of doubt , but as she felt then she did not particularly care to keep up a household for the sake of entertaining her aunt , and possibly Frank and wife , so she replied that she presumed `` they should board , as it would be the short session , -- if he was re-elected they might consider the house . '' 
Ethelyn knew very well that old Mrs. Markham 's servants were spoiled , that her domestic arrangements were not of the best kind , and that probably there was no receptacle for the dirty water except the ground ; but she did not consider this , or reflect that aside from all other considerations the act was wholly like a man ; she only thought it like him , p597-049 Judge Markham , and feelings of shame and mortification , such as no woman likes to entertain with regard to her husband , began to rise and swell in her heart . 
HE preferred to be called Richard by his friends and Mr. Markham by strangers ; -- not that he was insensible to the prestige which the title of Judge or Hon. gave him , but he was a plain , matter-of-fact man , who had not been lifted off from his balance , or grown dizzy by the rapidity with which he had risen in public favor . 
At home he was simply Dickto his three burly brothers , who were so proud and fond of him , while his practical , unpretending mother called him Richard , feeling , however , that it was very proper for the neighbors to give him the title of Judge . 
Of Mrs. Markham we shall have occasion to speak hereafter , so now we will only say that she saw no fault in her gifted son , and she was ready to do battle with any one who should suggest the existence of a fault . 
Richard 's wishes had never been thwarted , but rather deferred to by the entire family , and , as a natural consequence , he had come to believe that his habits and opinions were as nearly correct as they well could be . 
He greatly preferred his books to the gayest of frolics , and thus he early earned for himself the sobriquetof `` the old bachelor who hated girls ; '' all but Abigail Jones , whose black eyes and bright red cheeks had proved too much for the grave , sober Richard . 
His first act of gallantry was performed for her , and even after he grew to be Judge his former companions never wearied of telling how , on the occasion of his first going home with the fair Abigail Jones from spelling school , he had kept at a respectful distance from her , and when the light from her father 's window became visible he remarked that `` he guessed she would not be afraid to go the rest of the way alone , '' and abruptly bidding her good night , ran back as fast as he could run . 
Richard Markham believed that he had loved Abigail truly when she died , but he knew now that she was not the one he would have chosen in his mature manhood . 
There was nothing false about Richard Markham , and when he stood with Ethelyn upon the shore of Pordunk Pond , and asked her to be his wife , he told her of Abigail Jones , who had been two years older than himself , and to whom he was once engaged . 
She knew she ought to tell him this , and she would , perhaps , have done so , for Ethie meant to be honest , and her heart was touched and softened by Richard 's tender love for his sister ; but when he was so unfortunate as to call the green silk which Madame Beaumont , in Boston , had made , a pretty delaine , and her scarlet velvet band a `` red ribbon , '' her heart hardened , and her secret remained untold , while her proud lip half curled in scorn at the thought of Abigail Jones , who once stood perhaps as she was standing , with her hand on Richard Markham 's and the kiss of betrothal wet upon her forehead . 
Possibly Richard thought of the difference , but if he did he imputed Ethelyn 's cold passiveness to her modest retiring nature , so different from Abigail 's . 
But love is blind , and so was Richard ; for with his whole heart he did love Ethelyn Grant , and , notwithstanding his habits of thirty years , she could then have moulded him to her will , had she tried , by the simple process of love . 
there was no answering throb in her heart when she felt the touch of his hand or his breath upon her cheek . 
She was only conscious of a desire to avoid his caress , if possible , while , as the days went by , she felt a growing disgust for `` Abigail Jones , '' whose family , she gathered from her lover , lived near to and were quite familiar with his mother . 
In happy ignorance of her real feelings , so well did she dissemble them , and so proper and ladylike was her deportment , Richard bade her good-by early in May and went back to his Western home , writing to her often , but not such letters , it must be confessed , as were calculated to win a maiden 's heart , or keep it after it was won . 
and Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's constant exultation over the `` splendid match , '' helped to keep up the glamour of excitement , so that her promise had never been revoked , and now he was there to claim it . 
Ethelyn had seen him as he came from the depot in Colonel Markham 's carriage , and her cheek had crimsoned and then grown pale at sight of the ancient-looking hair trunk swinging behind the carriage , all unconscious of the indignation it was exciting , or of the vast difference between itself and the two huge Saratoga trunks standing in Aunt Barbara Bigelow 's upper hall , and looking so clean and nice in their fresh coverings . 
Still , Susie 's comment did much towards reconciling her to the linen coat ; and as Richard Markham came up the street , she did feel a thrill of pride and even pleasure , for he had a splendid figure and carried himself like a prince , while his fine face beamed all over with that joyous , happy expression which comes only from a kind , true heart , as he drew near the house and caught the flutter of a white robe through the open door . 
Each of these had sent kindly messages to Richard 's bride , the mother saying she should be glad to have a daughter in her home , and the three brothers promising to love their new sister so much as to make old Dickjealous , if possible . 
She had watched Richard 's upward progress with all the pride of a mother-in-law , lamenting often to Mrs. Markham that poor Abigail could not have lived to share his greatness ; and during the term of his judgeship , when he stayed mostly in Camden , the county seat , she had , on the occasion of her going to town with butter and eggs and chickens , taken a mournful pleasure in perambulating the streets and selecting the house where Abigail might perhaps have resided , and where she could have had her cup of young hyson after the fatigue of the day , instead of eating her dry lunch of cheese and fried cakes in the rather comfortless depot while waiting for the train . 
Richard 's long-continued bachelorhood had given her peculiar pleasure , inasmuch as it betokened a continual remembrance of her daughter ; and as her youngest child , the blooming Melinda , who was as like the departed Abigail as sisters ever are to each other , ripened into womanhood , and the grave Richard spoke oftener to her than to the other maidens of the village , she began to speculate upon what might possibly be , and refused the loan of her brass kettle to the neighbor whose husband did not vote for Richard when he ran for member of Congress . 
As the Markham house and the Jones house were distant from each other only half a mile , she was a frequent visitor of Richard 's mother , always assisting when there was more work than usual on hand , and on the occasion of Richard 's first going to Washington she had ironed his shirts and packed them in the hair trunk which had called forth Ethelyn 's ire . 
Though she did not remember much about `` Abby , '' she knew that , had she lived , Richard would have been her brother ; and for some reason he seemed to her just like one now , she said to Mrs. Markham , as she hemmed his pocket handkerchiefs and worked his initials in the corner with pink floss . 
Many times during Richard 's absence she visited Mrs. Markham , inquiring always after `` the Judge , '' and making herself so agreeable and useful , too , in clear-starching and doing up Mrs. Markham 's caps , and in giving receipts for sundry new and economical dishes , that the good woman herself sometimes wondered if Richard could do better than take the black-eyed Melinda ; and when he told her of Ethelyn Grant , she experienced a feeling of disappointment and regret , doubting much if a Boston girl , with Boston notions , would make her as happy as the plainer Melinda , who knew all her ways . 
In her surprise and disappointment she let fall some remarks which opened Richard 's eyes a little , and made him look at her half amused and half sorry , as she `` hoped the new bride would not have many airs , and would put up with his mother 's ways . '' 
`` You 'll excuse me , Richard , for speaking so plain , but you seem like my own boy , and I ca n't help it . 
It was the first time it had occurred to Richard that his mother had peculiarities , and even now he did not know what they were . 
Taking her all in all , she was as nearly perfect , he thought , as a woman well could be , and on his way home from his interview with Mrs. Jones he pondered in his mind what she could mean , and then wondered if for the asking he could have taken Melinda Jones to the fireside where he was going to install Ethelyn Grant . 
She should probably spend a few weeks with Mrs. Markham senior , who she fancied was a tall , stately woman , wearing heavy black silk dresses and thread-lace caps on great occasions , and having always on hand some fine lamb 's - wool knitting work when she sat in the parlor where Daisy 's picture hung . 
Ethelyn could not tell why it was that she always saw Richard 's mother thus , unless it were what Mrs. Col. Markham once said with regard to her Western sister-in-law , who had sent to Boston for a black silk which cost three dollars per yard , -- a great price for those days , -- and for two yards of handsome thread-lace , which she , the Mrs. Colonel , had run all over the city to get , `` John 's wife was so particular to have it just the pattern and width she described in her letter . '' 
This was Richard 's mother as Ethelyn saw her , while the house on the prairie presented a very respectable appearance to her mind 's eye , being large and fashioned something after the new house across the Common , which had a bay window at the side , and a kind of cupola on the roof . 
It would be quite possible to spend a few weeks comfortably there , especially as she would have the Washington gayeties in prospect ; but in the spring , when , after a winter of dissipation she returned to the prairies , she should go to her own home , either in Olney or Camden ; the latter , perhaps , as Richard could as well live there as elsewhere . 
This was Ethelyn 's plan , but she kept it to herself , and changing the conversation from Richard 's mother and her peculiarities , she talked instead of the places they were to visit , -- Quebec , and Montreal , the seaside and the mountains , and lastly that great Babel of fashion , Saratoga , for which place several of her dresses had been expressly made . 
Ethelyn had planned this trip herself ; and Richard , though knowing how awfully he should be bored before the summer was over , had assented to all that she proposed , secretly hoping the while that the last days of August would find him safe at home in Olney among his books , his horses , and his farming pursuits . 
This was the reason for her seeming indifference ; and in wishing himself able to go to her , Richard forgot in part his own pain , and fell into a quiet sleep , which did him untold good . 
The `` Van Buren set '' he knew had come , and he overheard Mrs. Markham 's Esther saying to Aunt Barbara 's Betty , when she came for the silver cake-basket , that `` Mr. Frank seemed in mighty fine spirits , considering all the flirtations he used to have with Miss Ethelyn . '' 
This was the first intimation Richard had received of a flirtation , and even now it did not strike him unpleasantly . 
It was a splendid suit , made after the most approved style , and costing a sum which he had kept secret from his mother , who , nevertheless , guessed somewhere near the truth , and thought the Olney tailor would have suited him quite as well at a quarter the price , or even Mrs. Jones , who , having been a tailoress when a young girl in Vermont , still kept up her profession to a limited extent , retaining her `` press-board '' and `` goose , '' and the mammoth shears which had cut Richard 's linen coat after a Chicago pattern of not the most recent date . 
Richard thought very little about his personal appearance , but he felt a glow of satisfaction now as he contemplated himself in the glass , and felt only that Ethelyn would be pleased to see him thus . 
So when Judge Markham alighted at the gate , and from her window she took in at a glance his tout ensemble , the revulsion of feeling was so great that the glad tears sprang to her eyes , and a brighter , happier look broke over her face than had been there for many weeks . 
She was not present when Frank was introduced to him ; but when next she met her cousin , he said to her , in his usual off-hand way , `` I say Ethie , he is pretty well got up for a Westerner . 
THERE was a great deal of sincere and tender interest in Richard 's manner when , in reply to his inquiries for Ethelyn 's headache , Aunt Barbara told him of the almost fainting fit in the morning and her belief that Ethelyn was not as strong this summer as she used to be . 
Once during the period of his judgeship Richard had attended a large and fashionable bridal party ; but when , on his return to Olney , Melinda Jones questioned him with regard to the dresses of the bride and the guests , he found himself utterly unable to remember either fabric , fashion , or even color , so little attention had he given to the subject . 
Poor , ignorant Richard ! 
It was Richard who saw it first , and Richard 's hand which brushed away the skeleton of Frank 's letter from the skirts of his bride , leaving a soiled , yellowish stain , which Susie Granger loudly deplored , while Ethelyn only drew her drapery around her , saying coldly , that `` it did not matter in the least . 
If at this last moment there arose in Ethelyn 's bosom any wild impulse to break away from the dreadful scene , and rush out into the darkness which lay so softly upon the hills , she put it aside , with the thought , `` too late now , -- forever too late ; '' and taking the arm which Richard offered her , she went mechanically down the staircase into the large parlor where the wedding guests were assembled . 
Surely , she did not know what she was doing , or realize the solemn words , `` I charge and require you both , as ye shall answer at the great day , when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed , that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony , ye do now confess it , for be ye well assured , '' and so forth . 
She did not even hear them ; for the numb , dead feeling which crept over her , chilling her blood , and making the hand which Richard took in his while he fitted the wedding-ring , so cold and clammy to the touch , that Richard felt tempted to hold and chafe it in his own warm broad palms ; but that was not in accordance with the ceremony , and so he let it fall , wondering that Ethelyn could be so cold when the sweat was standing in great drops upon his own face and moistening his wavy hair , which clustered in thick curls around his brow , making him look so handsome , as more than one maiden thought , envying Ethelyn her good fortune , and marvelling at the pallor of her lips and the rigidity of her form . 
The ceremony was ended , and Ethelyn Grant was Mrs. Richard Markham ; but the new name brought no blushes to her cheek , nor yet the kiss her husband gave her , nor the congratulations of the guests , nor Aunt Barbara 's tear , which dropped upon the forehead of her darling as the good woman bent over her and thought how she had lost her ; but when Frank Van Buren stooped down to touch her lips the sluggish blood quickened and a thrill went through and through her veins , sending the bright color to her cheeks , which burned as with a hectic flush . 
Now that he knew her better , Richard was more at ease with her , and returned her playful sallies until even Ethelyn wondered to see him so funny . 
Once , when they were standing together and Frank was near to them , Richard laid his hand upon Ethelyn 's shoulder , which the cut of the wedding-dress left bare . 
It was a very beautiful neck , white , and plump , and soft , and Richard 's hand pressed somewhat heavily ; but with a shiver Ethelyn drew herself away , and Frank , who was watching her , fancied that her face grew paler and her lips more compressed . 
After that she stayed more with Richard , and once , of her own accord , put her arm in his , and stood half leaning against him with both hands clasped together , while he held the bouquet which Mrs. Senator Woodhull had sent by express to New York . 
It is true that Richard smelled and breathed upon the flowers oftener than was desirable ; and once Ethelyn saw him extracting leaves from the choicest blossoms ; but on the whole he did very well , considering that it was the first time he had ever held a lady 's bouquet in such an expensive holder . 
FROM Mrs. Senator Woodhull 's elegant house , where Mrs. Judge Markham had been petted , and flattered , and caressed , and Mr. Judge Markham had been adroitly tutored and trained , the newly wedded pair went on to Quebec and Montreal , and thence to the White Mountains , where Ethelyn 's handsome travelling dress was ruined , and Richard 's linen coat , so obnoxious to his bride , was torn past repair , and laid away in one of Ethelyn 's trunks , with the remark that `` Mother could mend it for Andy , who always took his brother 's cast-off clothes . '' 
Wholly infatuated with his young bride , Richard was all attention , and Ethelyn had only to express a wish to have it gratified , so that casual lookers-on would have pronounced her supremely happy . 
The habits of years , however , are not so easily broken ; and by the time Saratoga was reached Richard 's patience began to give way beneath Ethelyn 's multifarious exactions , and the ennuiconsequent upon his travelling about so long . 
`` She hit it right , if she came to the latter conclusion , '' Richard said , good-humoredly ; `` for the fact is , I do n'tknow what to say to such women as she . 
`` You are my wife , Ethie , and I love you , which makes a heap of difference , '' Richard said , and winding his arm around Ethie 's waist he drew her face toward his own and kissed it affectionately . 
But Richard did not understand them . 
The consequence of this was that Ethelyn became a very little cross , as Richard thought , though she had never so openly attacked him as on that day , the third after their arrival , when to her horror he took off his coat , preparatory to a little comfort , while she was dressing for dinner . 
Richard was still too much in love with his young wife to feel very greatly irritated . 
In word and deed she had done her duty toward him thus far , and he had nothing to complain of . 
It is true she was very quiet and passive , and undemonstrative , never giving him back any caress , as he had seen wives do . 
But then he was not very demonstrative himself , and so he excused it the more readily in her , and loved her all the same . 
It was very pleasant to hear people say of her when she passed by , `` That is Mrs. Judge Markham , of Iowa , -- her husband is Member of Congress . '' 
Had they stayed away from Saratoga all might have been well ; but they were there , and so was all of Ethelyn 's world , -- the Tophevies , the Hales , the Hungerfords , and Van Burens , with Nettie Hudson , opening her great blue eyes at Richard 's mistake , and asking Frank in Ethelyn 's hearing , `` if Judge Markham 's manners were not a little outré . '' 
And here they greatly err , for no man , however well versed he may be in science and literature , is well educated , or well balanced , or excusable , if he neglects the little things which good breeding and common politeness require of him , and Richard was somewhat to be blamed . 
Richard was going to do better . 
And Ethelyn named her cousin Frank , while Richard felt a flush of resentment that he should be required to imitate a person whom in his secret heart he despised as dandyish , and weak , and silly , and `` namby-pamby , '' as he would probably have expressed it if he had not forsworn slang phrases of every kind . 
But Richard had pledged his word , and meant to keep it ; and so it was to all appearance a very happy and loving couple which , when the dinner-gong sounded , walked into the dining-room with Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's set , Ethelyn 's handsome blue silk sweeping far behind her , and her white bare arm just touching the coat-sleeve of her husband , who was not insensible to the impression made by the beautiful woman at his side . 
There were no lectures that night , for Richard had done his best , talking at least twenty minutes with both Mrs. Cameron and Mrs. Col. Tophevie , both of whom he found more agreeable than he had supposed . 
Then he had held Ethelyn 's white cloak upon his arm , and stood patiently against the wall , while up at the United States she danced set after set -- first , the Lancers , with young Lieut. Grey , then a polka with John Tophevie , and lastly a waltz with Frank Van Buren , who whirled his fair partner about the room with a velocity which made Richard dizzy and awoke sundry thoughts not wholly complimentary to that doubtful dance , the waltz . 
Richard did not dance himself , at least not latterly . 
Richard was not naturally jealous , -- certainly not of Frank Van Buren ; but he would rather his wife should not waltz with him or any other man , and so he said to her , asking this concession on her part in return for all he had promised to attempt ; and to Ethelyn 's credit we record that she yielded to her husband 's wishes , and , greatly to Frank 's surprise , declined the waltz which he proposed the following evening . 
But she made amends in other dances , and kept poor Richard waiting for her night after night , until he once fell asleep and dreamed of the log cabin on the prairie , where he had danced a quadrille with Abigail Jones to the tune of Moneymusk , as played by the Plympton brothers . 
Saratoga did not agree with Richard . 
Although he knew it was necessary that he should be at home if he would transact any business before the opening of his next session in Washington , Richard put aside all thoughts of self , and nursed his wife with a devotedness which awakened her liveliest gratitude . 
Richard was not awkward in the sick-room . 
With Mrs. Dr. Van Buren and Frank and the fashionable world all away , Richard 's faults were not so perceptible , and Ethelyn began to look forward with considerable interest to the time when she should be able to start for her Western home , about which she had built many delusive castles . 
Richard , who overheard this remark , wondered what it meant , for he had not the most remote idea of separating himself from his mother . 
She had a way of petting him and deferring to his judgment , and making him feel that Richard Markham was a very nice kind of man , far different from Ethelyn 's criticisms , which had sometimes led him seriously to inquire whether he were a fool or not . 
Somehow Melinda was a good deal in Richard 's mind , and when a button was missing from his shirts , or his toes came through his socks , -- as was often the case at Saratoga , -- he found himself thinking of the way Melinda had of helping `` fix his things '' when he was going from home , and of hearing his mother say what a handy girl she was , and what a thrifty , careful wife she would make . 
Her two huge trunks stood in the hall , together with the square hair trunk which held Richard 's wardrobe , and the three tin cans of peaches Mrs. Markham was sending to her sister-in-law , with the injunction to be sure and get that particular patent for cans if she wished her fruit to keep . 
In addition to these , an immense box had been forwarded by express , containing many little ornaments and pictures and brackets , which , during the winter , might perhaps adorn the walls of the parlor where Daisy 's picture hung , and where , Richard had said , was also an oil-painting of Niagara , omitting to add that it was the handiwork of Melinda Jones , that young lady having dabbled in paints as well as music during her two terms schooling at Camden . 
For James , who , she had heard Richard say , was an inveterate smoker , there was a handsome velvet smoking-cap , which , having been bought at Saratoga , had cost an enormous sum ; for John , an expensive pair of elaborately-wrought slippers had been selected ; but when it came to Anderson , as Ethelyn persisted in calling the brother whom Richard always spoke of as Andy , she felt a little perplexed as to what would be appropriate . 
Richard had talked very little of him , -- so little , in fact , that she knew nothing whatever of his tastes , except from the scrap of conversation she once accidentally over heard when the old Colonel was talking to Richard of his brothers . 
the captain had asked , but Richard 's reply was lost as Ethelyn walked on . 
Richard did not see it . 
The presents were a secret from him , all except the handsome point-lace coiffeur which Aunt Barbara sent to Mrs. Markham , together with a letter which she sat up till midnight to write , and in which she touchingly commended her darling to the new mother 's care and consideration . 
I have loved her so much , and petted her so much , that I doubt if she knows what a harsh word or cross look means . 
She has been carefully and delicately brought up , but has repaid me well for all my pains by her tender love . 
Please , dear Mrs. Markham , be very , very kind to her , and you will greatly oblige , The writing this letter was not the wisest thing Aunt Barbara could have done , but she was incited to it by what her sister Sophie told her of the rumors concerning Mrs. Markham , and her own fears lest Ethelyn should not be as comfortable with the new mother-in-law as was wholly desirable . 
To Richard himself she had said that she presumed that his mother 's ways were not like Ethie 's -- old people were different from young ones -- the world had improved since their day , and instead of trying to bring young folks altogether to their modes of thinking , it was well for both to yield something . 
This was the third time Richard had heard his mother 's waysalluded to ; first by Mrs. Jones , who called them queer ; second , by Mrs. Dr. Van Buren , who , for Ethie 's sake , had also dropped a word of caution , hinting that his mother 's ways might possibly be a little peculiar ; and lastly by good Aunt Barbara , who signalized them as different from Ethelyn 's . 
So Richard dismissed that subject from his mind , and Ethelyn , -- having never heard it agitated , except that time when , with Mrs. Jones on his mind , Richard had thought it proper to suggest the propriety of her humoring his mother , -- felt no fears of Mrs. Markham Senior , whom she still associated in her mind with heavy black silk , gold-bowed spectacles , handsome lace and fleecy crochet-work . 
She was prettier than on her bridal-day , Richard thought , as he kissed away the tears which dropped so fast even after the last good-by had been said to poor Aunt Barbara , who watched the flutter of Ethie 's veil and ribbons as far as they could be seen , and then in the secrecy of her own room knelt and prayed that God would bless and keep her darling , and make her happy in the new home to which she was going . 
But in the evening , when a cheerful wood-fire was kindled on the hearth of her pleasant sitting-room , and Mrs. Colonel Markham came in with her knitting-work , to sit until the Colonel called for her on his return from the meeting where he was to oppose with all his might the building of a new school-house , to pay for which he would be heavily taxed , she felt better , and could talk composedly of the travellers , who by that time were nearing Rochester , where they would spend the night . 
Although very anxious to reach home , Richard had promised that Ethelyn should only travel through the day , as she was not as strong as before her illness . 
There was always a crowd of people here going out to different parts of the country , and as one after another came into the car Richard seemed to know them all , while the cordial and rather noisy greeting which they gave `` the Judge '' struck Ethelyn a little oddly , -- it was so different from the quiet , undemonstrative manners to which she had been accustomed . 
she merely responded with a cool bow and a haughty stare , intended to put down the young man , whom Richard introduced as `` Tim Jones , '' and who , taking the seat directly in front of her , poured forth a volley of conversation , calling Richard sometimes `` Dick , '' sometimes `` Markham , '' but oftener `` Square , '' as he had learned to do when Richard was Justice of the Peace in Olney . 
The discovery was not a pleasant one , and did not tend to smooth her ruffled spirits or lessen the feeling of contempt for Western people in general , and Richard 's friends in particular , which had been growing in her heart ever since the Eastern world was left behind and she had been fairly launched upon the great prairies of the Mississippi Valley . 
Richard was a prince compared with the specimens she had seen , though she did wonder that he should be so familiar with them , calling them by their first names , and even bandying jokes with the terrible Tim Jones spitting his tobacco-juice all over the car floor and laughing so loudly at all the `` Square '' said . 
At first , Mrs. Markham , who felt a greater interest in the Joneses than in any other family , looked askance at these `` new-fangled notions , '' wondering how `` Miss Jones expected to keep the flies out of her house if she had all the doors a flyin ' three times a day , '' and fearing lest Melinda was getting `` stuck-up notions in her head , which would make her fit for nothing . '' 
But when she found there were no more flies in farmer Jones ' kitchen than in her own , and that Melinda worked as much as ever , and was just as willing to lend a helping hand when there was need of haste at the Markham house , her anxiety subsided , and the Joneses were welcome to eat wherever they chose , or even to have to wait upon the table , when there was company , the little black boy Pete , whom Tim had bought at a slave auction in New Orleans , whither he had gone on a flat-boat expedition two or three years before . 
But she never thought of introducing any of Melinda 's notions into her own household . 
When company came , -- and Mrs. Markham was not inhospitable , -- the east room , where the bed stood , was opened ; and if the company , as was sometimes the case , chanced to be Richard 's friends , she used the west room across the hall , where the chocolate-colored paper and Daisy 's picture hung , and where , upon the high mantel , there was a plaster image of little Samuel , and two plaster vases filled with colored fruit . 
It was a small pattern , and on this account had been offered a shilling cheaper a yard , and so the economical Mrs. Markham had bought it , intending to eke out the deficiency with drugget of a corresponding shade ; but the merchant did not bring the drugget , and the carpet was put down , and time went on , and the strips of painted board were still uncovered , save by the straight row of hair-cloth chairs , which stood upon one side , and the old-fashioned sofa , which had cost fifty dollars , and ought to last at least as many years . 
There was a Boston rocker , and a centre-table , with the family bible on it , and a volume of Scott 's Commentaries , and frosted candlesticks on the mantel and two sperm candles in them , with colored paper , pink and green , all fancifully notched and put around them , and a bureau in the corner , which held the boys ' Sunday shirts and Mrs. Markham 's black silk dress , with Daisy 's clothes in the bottom drawer , and the silver plate taken from her coffin . 
Sometimes the summer showed here a growth of marigolds , with sweet peas and china asters , for Andy was fond of flowers , and when he had leisure he did a little floral gardening ; but this year , owing to Richard 's absence , there had been more to do on the farm , consequently the ornamental had been neglected , and the late autumn flowers which , in honor of Ethelyn 's arrival , were standing in vases on the centre-table and the mantel , were contributed by Melinda Jones , who had been very busy in other portions of the house working for the bride . 
She could do this now without a single pang of jealousy , for she was a sensible girl , and after a night and a day of heaviness , and a vague sense of disappointment , she had sung as merrily as ever , and no one was more interested in the arrival of Richard 's bride than she , from the time when Richard started eastward for her . 
Between herself and her mother there had been a long , confidential conversation , touching Mrs. Markham 's waysand the best means of circumventing them , so that the new wife might not be utterly crushed with home-sickness and surprise when she first arrived . 
No one could manage Mrs. Markham as well as Melinda , and it was owing to her influence that the large , pleasant chamber , which had been Richard 's ever since he became a growing man , was renovated and improved until it presented a very inviting appearance . 
The rag carpet , which for years had done duty , and bore many traces of Richard 's muddy boots , had been exchanged for a new ingrain , -- not very pretty in design , or very stylish either , but possessing the merit of being fresh and clean . 
Mrs. Markham was not stingy with regard to her table ; that was always loaded with the choicest of everything , while many a poor family blessed her as an angel . 
But the articles she ate were mostly the products of their large , well cultivated farm ; they did not cost money directly out of her hand , and it was the moneyshe disliked parting with , so she talked , and beat the Camden merchant down five cents on a yard , and made him cut it a little short , to save a waste , and made him throw in the thread and binding , and swearwhen she was gone , wondering who `` the stingy old woman was . '' 
And yet the very day after her return from Camden `` the stingy old woman '' sent to her minister a loaf of bread and a pail of butter , and to a poor sick woman , who lived in a leaky cabin off the prairie , a nice warm blanket for her bed , with a basket of delicacies to tempt her capricious appetite . 
Adjoining Richard 's chamber was a little room where Mrs. Markham 's flour , and meal , and corn , were kept , but which , with a little fitting up , would answer nicely for a bed-room ; and after an amount of engineering , which would have done credit to the general of an army , Melinda succeeded in coaxing Mrs. Markham to move her barrels and bags , and give up the room for Ethelyn 's bed , which looked very nice and inviting , notwithstanding that the pillows were small , and the bedstead a high poster , which had been in use for twenty years . 
Mrs. Markham knew all about the boxes , as she called them . 
Richard was fond of books , and had collected form time to time a well-selected library , which was the only ornament in his room when Melinda first took it in hand ; but when she had finished her work , -- when the carpet was down , and the neat , white shades were up at the windows ; when the books which used to be on the floor , and table , and chairs , and mantel , and window sills , and anywhere , were neatly arranged in the very respectable shelves which Andy made and James painted ; when the little sewing chair designed for Ethelyn was put before one window , and Richard 's arm-chair before the other , and the drab lounge was drawn a little into the room , and the bureau stood corner-ways , with a bottle of cologne upon it , which John had bought , and a pot of pomade Andy had made , and two little pink and white mats Melinda had crocheted , the room was very presentable . 
Great , womanish Andy was sure Ethelyn would be pleased , and rubbed his hands jubilantly over the result of his labors , while Melinda was certainly pardonable for feeling that in return for what she had done for Richard 's wife she might venture to suggest that the huge box , marked piano , which for ten days had been standing on the front piazza , be opened , and the piano set up , so that she could try its tone . 
It was not Mrs. Markham 's custom to keep a girl the year round , but when she did it was Eunice Plympton , the daughter of the drunken fiddler who earned his livelihood by playing for the dances the young people of Olney sometimes got up . 
He was anticipating quite a windfall from the infairit was confidently expected would be given by Mrs. Markham in honor of her son 's marriage ; and Eunice herself had washed and starched and ironed the white waist she intended to wear on the same occasion . 
This was Eunice , and she had been with Mrs. Markham during the past summer ; but her time was drawing to a close . 
All the heavy work was over , the harvests were gathered in , the soap was made , the cleaning done , the house made ready for Richard 's wife , and it was the understanding that when that lady came and was somewhat domesticated , Miss Eunice was to leave . 
There was not much to do in the winter , Mrs. Markham said , and with Richard 's wife 's help she should get along . 
It did occur to Mrs. Markham that there might be a great propriety in Eunice 's waiting for once , inasmuch as there were plates to change , and custard pie and minced , and pudding , to be brought upon the table ; but the good woman did not dare hint at such a thing , so the seven plates were put upon the table , and the china cups brought from the little cupboard at the side of the chimney , and the silver teapot , which was a family heir-loom , and had been given Mrs. Markham by her mother , was brought also and rubbed up ; and the pickles , and preserves , and honey , and cheese , and jellies , and white raised biscuit , and fresh brown bread , and shredded cabbage , and cranberry sauce , with golden butter , and pitchers of cream , were all arranged according to Eunice 's ideas . 
Eunice was grinding the coffee , and the clock said it wanted but half an hour of car-time , when Mrs. Markham finally left the kitchen , and proceeded to make her toilet . 
Eunice 's had been made some time ago , and the largesized hoop she wore had already upset a pail and dragged a griddle from the stove-hearth , greatly to the discomfiture of Mrs. Markham , who did not fancy hoops , though she wore a small one this afternoon under her clean and stifflystarched dress of purple calico . 
St. Paul would have made her an exception in his restrictions with regard to women 's apparel , for neither gold nor silver ornaments nor braided hair found any tolerance in her . 
She followed St. Paul strictly , except at such times as the good people in the Methodist Church at the east end of the village held a protracted meeting , when she deviated so far from his injunctions as to speak her mind and tell her experience . 
She was a good and a conscientious woman , believing more in the inner than the outer adorning ; and she looked very neat this afternoon in her purple calico , with a motherly white apron tied around her waist , and her soft , silvery hair combed smoothly back from her forehead , and twisted in a knot behind , about the size of a half dollar . 
Almost too tasteful , Mrs. Markham thought , as she glanced at the tiny artificial flower tucked in among the bows of ribbon . 
But Mrs. Markham did not remove the flower , for it was a daisy , and it made her think of the Daisy who died fourteen years ago , and who , had she lived till now , would have been twenty-eight . 
`` A married woman , most likely , and I might have been grandmother , '' Mrs. Markham sighed ; and then , as she heard in fancy the patter of little feet at her side , and saw before her little faces with a look like Daisy in them , her thoughts went softly out to Richard 's bride , through whom this coveted blessing might come to her quiet household , and her heart throbbed with a quick , sudden yearning for the young daughter-in-law , now just alighting at the Olney station , for the Eastern train had come , and James was there with the democrat wagon to meet it . 
Ethelyn had a good view of it as the train approached it , and even caught a passing glimpse of the white house in the distance which Richard pointed out as home , his face lighting up with all the pleasure of a schoolboy as he saw the old familiar waymarks and felt that he was home at last . 
Dropping her veil over her face , Ethelyn arose to follow her husband , who , in his eagerness to grasp the hand of the tall young man he had seen from the window , forgot to carry her shawl and her satchel , which last being upon the car-rack , she tugged at with all her strength , and was about crying with vexation at Richard 's thoughtlessness , when Tim Jones , who had watched her furtively , wondering how she and Melindwould get along , gallantly came to her aid , and taking the satchel down kept it upon his arm . 
Tim said , offering to assist her from the train ; but with a feeling of disgust , Ethelyn declined the offer , and turned away from him to meet the curious gaze of the young man whom Richard presented as brother James . 
Richard said , in the low , peculiar tone , which she had almost unconsciously learned to fear , just as she did the dark expression which his hazel eyes assumed as he said the single word , `` Ethelyn ! '' 
She was afraid of Richard when he looked and spoke that way , and putting up her lips , she permitted the kiss which the warm-hearted James gave to her . 
He was more of a ladies ' man than Richard , and when on their way to the democrat wagon they came to a patch of mud , through which Ethelyn 's skirts were trailing , he playfully lifted her in his strong arms , and set her down upon the wagon-box , saying , as he adjusted her skirts , `` We ca n't have that pretty dress spoiled , the very first day , with Iowa mud . '' 
All this time Tim Jones had been dutifully holding the satchel which he now deposited at Ethelyn 's feet , and then , at James ' invitation , sprang into the hinder part of the wagon-box , and sitting down let his long limbs dangle over the back board , while James sat partly in Richard 's lap and partly in Ethelyn 's . 
Ethelyn took it all in at a glance , exclaiming , in a smothered voice , as the wagon turned into the lane which led to the side-door , `` Not here , Richard ; surely , not here ! '' 
But Richard , if he heard her , did not heed her . 
He could not comprehend her utter desolation and crushing disappointment . 
Her imaginings of his home had never been anything like the reality , and for the moment she felt as if in a kind of horrible nightmare , from which she struggled to awake . 
if it were only a dream , '' she thought ; but it was no dream , and as Richard himself lifted her carefully from the wagon , and deposited her upon the side-stoop , there came a mist before her eyes , and for an instant sense and feeling forsook her ; but only for an instant , for the hall-door was thrown open , and Richard 's mother came out to greet her son and welcome her new daughter . 
Neither did the hat , rolled so jauntily on the sides , and giving her a coquettish appearance , escape her notice , nor the fact that the dotted veil was not removed from the white face , even after Richard had put the little plump hand in hers , and said , `` This , mother , is Ethie , my wife . 
In her joy at seeing her pet boy again , Mrs. Markham would have done a great deal for his sake , but she could not `` kiss a veil , '' as she afterwards said to Melinda Jones , and so she only held and pressed Ethelyn 's hand , and leading her into the house , told her she was very welcome , and bade her come to the fire and take off her things , and asked if she was not tired , and cold and hungry . 
And Ethelyn tried to answer , but the great lumps were swelling in her throat , and so keen a pain was tugging at her heart that when at last , astonished at her silence , Richard said , `` What is the matter , Ethie -- why do n't you answer mother ? '' 
she burst out in a pitiful cry : `` Oh , Richard , I ca n't , I ca n't ; please take me back to Aunt Barbara . '' 
This was the crisis , the concentration of all she had been suffering for the last hour , and it touched Mrs. Markham 's heart , for she remembered just how wretched she had been when she first landed at the rude log cabin , which was so long her Western home , and turning to Richard , she said , in an aside , `` She is homesick , poor child , as it 's natural she should be at first . 
In referring to her youth , Mrs. Markham meant nothing derogatory to her daughter-in-law . 
She was finding an excuse for her crying , and did not mean that Ethelyn should hear . 
She was too proud to be petted or patronized by Mrs. Markham , or apologized for by her , so she dried her eyes , and lifting up her head , said proudly : `` I am tired to-night , and my head is aching so hard that I lost my self-control . 
Richard knows me too well to need an excuse . '' 
A born duchess could not have assumed a loftier air , and in some perplexity Mrs. Markham glanced from her to Richard , as if asking what to do next . 
A fall from his horse upon the ground had injured his head when he was a boy , and since that time he had been what his mother called a little queer , while the neighbors spoke of him as simple Andy , or Mrs. Markham 's half-wit , who did the work of a girl and knit all his own socks . 
He was next to Richard in point of age , but he looked younger than either of his brothers , for his face was round and fair , and smooth as a girl 's . 
In his younger days , when the tavern at the Cross Roads was just opened , Andy had been a sore trial to both mother and brothers ; and many a night , when the rain and sleet were driving across the prairies , Richard had left the warm fireside and gone out in the storm after the erring Andy , who had more than once been found by the roadside , with his hat jammed into every conceivable shape , his face scratched , and a tell-tale smell about his breath which contradicted his assertion `` that somebody had knocked him down . '' 
Andy had been intemperate , and greatly given to what the old Colonel in Chicopee had designated as `` busts ; '' but since the time when the church missionary , young Mr. Townsend , had come to Olney , and held his first service in the log school-house , Andy had ceased to frequent the Cross Roads tavern , and Richard went no more in the autumnal storms to look for his wayward brother . 
While rejoicing and thanking God for the change , which she felt was wholly sincere , Mrs. Markham had deeply deplored the pertinacity with which Andy had clung to his resolve to join `` Mr. Townsend 's church or none . '' 
She did not doubt Mr. Townsend 's piety or Andy 's either , but she doubted the Episcopalians generally , because they did not require of their members more than God himself requires , and it hurt her sore that Andy should go with them rather than to her church across the brook , where Father Aberdeen preached . 
Mrs. Markham was not convinced , but she let Andy alone after that , simply remarking that `` the Prayer-Book would not always answer the purpose ; there would come a time when just what he wanted was not there . '' 
He had heard from Richard that his new sister was of his way of thinking , -- that though not a member of the church except by baptism , she was an Episcopalian , and would be married by that form . 
He was sure to like her ; and on the evening of the bridal , when the clock struck nine , he had taken his tallow candle to his room , and opening his prayer-book at the marriage ceremony , had read it carefully through , even to the saying , `` I , Richard , take thee , Ethelyn , '' & c. , kneeling at the proper time , and after he was through , even venturing to improvise a prayer of his own , in which he asked , not that Ethelyn might be happy with his brother , -- there was no doubt on that point , for Richard was perfect in his estimation , -- but that old Dick might be happy with her , -- that he , Andy , might do his whole duty by her , and that , if it was right to ask it , she might bring him something from that famous Boston , which seemed to him like a kind of paradise , and also that she need not at once discover that he did not know as much as old Dick . 
Richard had dreaded the meeting between his polished wife and his simple brother more than anything else , and several times he had tried to prepare Ethelyn for it , but he could not bring himself to say , `` Andy is foolish ; '' for when he tried to do it Andy 's pleading face came up before him just as it looked on the morning of his departure from home in June , when Andy had said to him , `` Do n't tell her what a shaller critter I am . 
So Richard had said nothing particular of Andy ; and now he watched him anxiously to see the impression he was making , and , as he saw Ethelyn 's manner , he marvelled greatly at this new phase in her disposition . 
Even Andy had his points of beauty , for his soft , brown hair was handsomer , if possible , than Richard 's , and more luxuriant , while many a city dandy might have coveted his white , even teeth , and his dark eyes were very placid and gentle in their expression . 
EUNICE had not fully seen the stranger , and when dinner was announced and Richard led her out , with Andy hovering at her side , she stood ready to be introduced , with the little speech she had been rehearsing about `` I hope to see you well , '' & c. , trembling on the tip of her tongue . 
But her plans were seriously disarranged . 
Six months before Richard would have presented her himself , as a matter of course ; but he had learned some things since then , and he tried not to see his mother 's meaning look as she glanced from him to Eunice and then to Ethelyn , whose proud bearing awed and abashed even her . 
Eunice , however , had been made quite too much of to be wholly ignored now , and Mrs. Markham felt compelled to say , `` Ethelyn , this -- this is -- Eunice -- Eunice Plympton . '' 
That Eunice Plympton was the hired girl Ethelyn did not for a moment dream ; but that she was coarse and vulgar , like the rest of Richard 's family , she at once decided , and if she bowed at all , it was not perceptible to Eunice , who mentally resolved `` to go home in the morning if such a proud minx was to live there . '' 
Mrs. Markham saw the gathering storm , and Richard knew by the drop of her chin that Ethelyn had not made a good impression . 
How could she , with that proud , cold look , which never for an instant left her face , but rather deepened in its expression as the dinner proceeded , and one after the other Mrs. Markham and Eunice left the table in quest of something that was missing , while Andy himself , being nearest the kitchen , went to bring a pitcher of hot water for Ethelyn 's coffee , lifting the kettle with the skirt of his coat , and snapping his fingers , which were slightly burned with the scalding steam . 
From the position she occupied at the table Ethelyn saw the whole performance , and had it been in any other house she would have smiled at Andy 's grotesque appearance as he converted his coat-skirts into a holder ; but now it only sent a colder chill to her heart as she reflected that these were Richard 's people and this was Richard 's home . 
Sadly and vividly there arose before her visions of dear Aunt Barbara 's household , where Betty served so quietly , and where , except that they were upon a smaller scale , everything was as well and properly managed as in Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's family . 
She knew the viands before her were as nicely cooked as even Aunt Barbara or Betty could have cooked them , -- so much she conceded to Mrs. Markham and Eunice ; but had her life depended upon it she could not have eaten them , and the plate which James had filled so plentifully scarcely diminished at all . 
She did pick a little with her fork at the white , tender turkey , and tried to drink her coffee , but the pain in her head and the pain at her heart were both too great to allow of her doing more , and Mrs. Markham and Eunice both felt a growing contempt for a dainty thing who could not eat the dinner they had been at so much pains to prepare . 
They were an ignorant set , the whole of them , she mentally decided , as she watched their manners at table , noticing how James and John poured their coffee into their saucers , blowing it until it was cool , while Richard , feeling more freedom now that he was again under his mother 's wing , used his knife altogether , even to eating jelly with it . 
Indeed , it might be truly said of him that `` Richard was himself again , '' for his whole manner was that of a petted child , which , having returned to the mother who spoiled it , had cast off the restraint under which for a time it had been laboring . 
Richard was hungry , and would have enjoyed his dinner hugely , but for the cold , silent woman beside him , who , he knew , was watching and criticising all he did ; but at home he did not care so much for her criticisms as when alone with her at fashionable hotels or with fashionable people . 
It was very pleasant up there , for a cheerful wood-fire was blazing on the hearth , and a rocking-chair drawn up before it , with a footstool which Andy had made and Melinda covered ; while the bed in the little room adjoining looked so fresh , and clean , and inviting , that with a great sigh of relief , as the door closed between her and the `` dreadful people below , '' Ethelyn threw herself upon it , and burying her face in the soft pillows , tried to smother the sobs which , nevertheless , smote heavily upon Richard 's ear when he came in , and drove from him all thoughts of the little lecture he had been intending to give Ethelyn touching her deportment toward his family . 
I wonder what Richard was thinking of , '' he mounted the stairs , resolved at least to talk with Ethie and ask her to do better . 
Richard could be very stern when he tried , and the hazel of his eye was darker than usual , and the wrinkle between his eyebrows was deeper as he thus meditated harm against his offending wife . 
Ethelyn knew this as well as any one ; and Mrs. Markham , washing her dishes and occasionally wiping her eyes with the corner of the check-apron as she thought how all her trouble had been thrown away upon a proud , ungrateful girl , could not think less of Ethie than Ethie thought of herself . 
The family were ignorant and ill bred , as she counted ignorance and ill breeding ; but they did mean to be kind to her , and she hated herself for her ingratitude in not at least seeming pleased with their endeavors to please her . 
Added to this was a vague remembrance of a certain look seen in Richard 's eye , -- a look which made her uneasy as she thought , `` What if he should hate me too ? '' 
Richard was all Ethelyn had to cling to now . 
and Ethelyn 's voice expressed the disgust she felt for the young lady with red streamers in her hair , who had stared so at her and called her husband Richard . 
Ethelyn had not yet defined Eunice 's position in the family , -- whether it was that of cousin , or niece , or companion , -- and now that Richard had suggested her , she said to him , `` Who is this Eunice that seems so familiar ? '' 
Richard hesitated a little and then replied , `` She is the girl who works for mother when we need help . '' 
Richard did not say , `` Aunt Sophie be hanged , or be -- anything , '' but he thought it , just as he thought Ethelyn 's ideas peculiar and over-nice . 
Eunice Plympton was a respectable , trusty girl , and he believed in doing well for those who did well for him ; but that was no time to argue the point , and so he sat still and listened to Ethelyn 's complaint that Eunice had called him Richard , and would undoubtedly on the morrow address her as Ethelyn . 
Richard thought not , but he changed his mind when , fifteen minutes later , he descended to the kitchen and heard Eunice asking Andy if he did not think `` Ethelynlooked like the Methodist minister 's new wife . '' 
This was an offence which even Richard could not suffer to pass unrebuked ; and sending Andy out on some pretext or other , he said that to Eunice Plympton which made her more careful as to what she called his wife , but he did it so kindly that she could not be offended with him , though she was strengthened in her opinion that `` Miss Ethelyn was a stuck-up , an upstart , and a hateful . 
Supposin ' she had been waited on all her life , and brought up delicately , as Richard said , that was no reason why she need feel so big , and above speaking to a poor girl when she was introduced . '' 
It was so long since Richard had been at home , and there was so much to hear of what had happened during his absence , that instead of going back to Ethelyn he yielded to his mother 's wish that he should stay with her ; and sitting down in his arm-chair by the blazing fire , he found it so pleasant to be flattered and caressed , and deferred to again , that he was in some danger of forgetting the young wife who was thus left to the tender mercies of Andy and Eunice Plympton . 
But she was spared the trial of seeing her basquine strained over Eunice 's buxom figure by the entrance of Richard , who came to say that Eunice was wanted by his mother , and also that Melinda Jones was in the parlor below , and had asked to see his wife . 
In spite of all Tim had said about madam 's airs , and his advice that `` Melinda should keep away , '' that young lady had ventured upon a call , thinking her intimacy with the family would excuse any unseemly haste , and thinking too , it may be , that possibly Mrs. Richard Markham would be glad to know there was some one in Olney more like the people to whom she had been accustomed than Mrs. Markham senior and her handmaid , Eunice Plympton . 
But Melinda 's pains had been for naught , just as Richard feared , when she asked if `` Mrs. Markham '' was too tired to see her . 
Richard was glad to see Melinda , and Melinda was glad to see Richard , -- so glad that she gave him a hearty kiss , prefacing the act with the remark , `` I can kiss you , now you are a married man . '' 
Richard liked the kiss , and liked Melinda 's frank , open manner , which had in it nothing Van Burenish , as he secretly termed the studied elegance of Mrs. Richard Markham 's style . 
`` You are better , Ethie , '' Richard said , bending over her , and playfully lifting her heavy hair . 
`` Eunice is well enough in her place , '' was Ethelyn 's reply ; and then there was a pause , while Richard wondered how he should introduce Melinda Jones . 
Ethelyn diddislike to hear of the Joneses , and her brow grew cloudy at once when Richard said , bunglingly , and as if it were not at all what he had come up to say -- `` Oh , do n't you remember hearing me speak of Melinda Jones , whom I hoped you would like ? 
`` And Melinda is an intimate friend , '' Richard answered , a little warmly , as he left his wife and went back to Melinda with the message that `` some time Ethelyn would be happy to make Miss Jones ' acquaintance , but to-night she must be excused , as she was too tired to come down . '' 
Andy regarded his stylish sister-in-law as a very choice gem , which was not to be handled too roughly , but he was not afraid of her ; he was seldom afraid of anybody ; and when Richard was gone he walked boldly up to Ethelyn and said -- `` I do n't want to be meddlesome , but ` pears to me if you 'd spoke out your feelings to Dick , you 'd said , ` Tell Melinda Jones I do n't want to see her , neither to-night nor any time . ' 
The thought of the people to whom she had been so cold , and rude , working and planning for her comfort , touched a very tender chord , and had Richard then requested her to go down , it is very possible she might have done so ; but it was too late now , and after Andy left her she lay pondering what he had said , and listening to the sound of voices which came up to her from the parlor directly beneath her room , where James , and John , and Andy , and the mother , with Melinda and Eunice , were talking to Richard , who was conscious of a greater feeling of content , sitting there in their midst again , than he had known in many a day . 
Melinda had been more than disappointed at Mrs. Richard 's non-appearance , for aside from a curiosity to see the great lady , there was a desire to be able to report that she hadseen her to other females equally curious , whom she would next day meet at church . 
It would have added somewhat to her self-complacency as well as importance in their eyes , could she have quoted Mrs. Richard 's sayings , and described Mrs. Richard 's dress , the very first day after her arrival . 
Ethelyn declined coming down , and with a good-humored smile Melinda said she was quite excusable ; and then , untying her bonnet , she laid it aside , just as she did the indescribable air of stiffness she had worn while expecting Mrs. Richard . 
and how handsome James ' eyes grew as they rested admiringly upon the sprightly girl , who , perfectly conscious of his gaze , never looked at him , but confined her attention wholly to Richard , until Andy asked `` if they could not have a bit of a tune . ' 
Then , for the first time , Richard discovered that Ethelyn 's piano had been unpacked , and was now standing between the south windows , directly under Daisy 's picture . 
Richard did not care for himself , but he was afraid of what Ethelyn might say , and wondered why she had not spoken of the liberty they had taken . 
But when , as she lay half dozing and thinking of Aunt Barbara , the old familiar air of `` Monymusk , '' played with a most energetic hand , came to her ear , she started , for she knew the tone of her own instrument , -- knew , too , that Melinda Jones ' hands were sweeping the keys , -- and all that Melinda Jones had done for her comfort was forgotten in the deep resentment which heated her blood , and flushed her cheek as she listened to `` Old Zip Coon , '' which followed `` Monymusk , '' a shuffling sound of feet telling that somebody 's boots were keeping time after a very unorthodox fashion . 
The Markham boys were noted for their fine voices ; and even Richard had once assisted at a public concert ; but to-night he did not sing , -- his thoughts were too intent upon the wife up-stairs and what she might be thinking of the performance , and he was glad when the piano was closed and Melinda Jones had gone . 
And Richard , looking at her , felt supremely happy that she was his , forgetting all of the past which had been unpleasant , and thinking only that he was blessed above his fellow-mortals that he could call the beautiful girl before him his Ethelyn , -- his wife . 
It was generally known that Mrs. Judge Markham was an Episcopalian , and as she would of course patronize the Village Hall , the young people of Olney were there en masse , eager to see the bride . 
This , together with Eunice 's assertion that she was handsome , and Tim Jones ' testimony that she was `` mighty stuck up , but awful neat , '' was all the disappointed Olneyites heard of Mrs. Richard Markham , who , as Eunice reported , had breakfasted in bed , and was still lying there when the one bell in Olney rang out its summons for church . 
She did not pretend to be sick , -- only tired and languid , and indisposed for any exertion ; and then it was so much nicer taking her breakfast from the little tray covered with the snowy towel which Richard brought her , than it was to go down stairs and encounter all `` those dreadful people , '' as she mentally styled Richard 's family ; so she begged for indulgence this once , and Richard could not refuse her request , and excused her to his mother , who said nothing , but whose face wore an expression which Richard did not like . 
Always strong and healthy herself , Mrs. Markham had but little charity for nervous , delicate people , and she devoutly hoped that Richard 's wife would not prove to be one of that sort . 
When the dishes were washed , and the floor swept , and the broom hung up in its place , and the sleeves of the brown , dotted calico rolled down , she went herself to see Ethelyn , her quick eye noticing the elaborate night-gown , with its dainty tucks and expensive embroidery , and her thoughts at once leaping forward to ironing-day , with the wonder who was to do up such finery . 
Ethelyn readily guessed the opinion her mother-in-law was forming of her , and could hardly steady her voice sufficiently to answer her questions or repress her tears , which gushed forth the moment Mrs. Markham had left the room , and she was alone with Richard . 
Poor Richard ! 
But she could not help feeling that it was out of keeping when James , and John , and Eunice stared so at her , and Mrs. Markham asked if she had n't better tie on an apron for fear she might get something on her . 
Mrs. Markham , and Eunice , and Andy glanced at each other . 
Napkins were a luxury in which Mrs. Markham had never indulged . 
She knew they were common in almost every family of her acquaintance ; but she did not see of what use they were , except to make more washing , and as her standard of things was the standard of thirty years back , she was not easily convinced ; and even Melinda Jones had failed on the napkin question . 
It was lying in the drawer now , with her white cambric dress , and , at a whispered word from her mistress , Eunice brought it out and laid it in Ethelyn 's lap , while Richard 's face grew crimson as he began to think that possibly his mother might be a very little behind the times in her household arrangements . 
Mrs. Markham , on the contrary , could hardly conceive of a lady too fine to do that service for herself , and Eunice was not the least to blame for omitting to do what she had never been told was her duty . 
A few words from Richard , however , and the promise of an extra quarter per week , made that matter all right ; and neither Betty nor Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's trained chambermaid , Mag , had ever entered into the clearing-up process with greater zeal than did Eunice when once she knew that Richard expected it of her . 
She was naturally kind-hearted , and though Ethelyn 's lofty ways annoyed her somewhat , her admiration for the beautiful woman and her elegant wardrobe was unbounded , and she felt a pride in waiting upon her which she would once have thought impossible to feel in anything pertaining to her duties as a servant . 
He was more observing than Richard , and with the same advantages would have polished sooner . 
But when Richard , who stood looking on , explained to his weak brother what it was , saying that people of cultivation prized such things as these , and that some time he would read to him of the great German poet , Andy felt better , and accepted his big dollwith a very good grace . 
The coiffeur came next , Mrs. Markham saying she was much obliged , and Eunice asking if it was a half-handkerchief , to be worn about the neck . 
She did wonder , however , that they were not more like what Daisy must have been , judging from the expression of her face and all Richard had said of her . 
Between Mrs. Markham and Ethelyn there was from the first a mutual feeling of antagonism , and it was in no degree lessened by Aunt Barbara 's letter , which Mrs. Markham read three times on Sunday , and then on Monday very foolishly talked it up with Eunice , whom she treated with a degree of familiarity wholly unaccountable to Ethelyn . 
It was Mrs. Markham 's weakness that her washing should be fluttering in the wind before that of Mrs. Jones , which could be plainly seen from her kitchen window . 
The bride had brought with her a great deal of extra work , and what with waiting breakfast for her until the coffee was cold and the baked potatoes `` soggy , '' and then cleaning up the litter of `` that box , '' Mrs. Markham was behind with her Monday 's work . 
And it did not tend to improve her temper to know that the cause of all her discomposure was `` playing lady '' in a handsome cashmere morning-gown , with heavy tassels knotted at her side , while she was bending over the washtub in a faded calico pinned about her waist , and disclosing the quilt patched with many colors , and the black yarn stockings footed with coarse white . 
Not that Mrs. Markham cared especially for the difference between her dress and Ethelyn 's , -- neither did she expect Ethelyn to `` help '' that day , -- but she might at least have offered to wipe the dinner dishes , she thought . 
But instead of that she had returned to her room the moment dinner was over , and Eunice , who went up to hunt for a missing sock of Richard 's , reported that she was lying on the lounge with a story-book in her hand . 
`` Shiffless , '' was the word Mrs. Markham wanted to use , but she repressed it , for she would not talk openly against Richard 's wife so soon after her arrival , though she did make some invidious remarks concerning the handsome under-clothes , wondering `` what folks were thinking of to put so much work where it was never seen . 
Puffs , and embroidery , and lace , and , I vum , if the rufflers ai n't tucked , too , '' she continued , in a despairing voice , hoping Ethelyn knew `` how to iron such filagree herself , for the mercy knew she did n't . '' 
Her instincts were truer than Mrs. Markham 's , and it struck her as perfectly proper that one like Ethelyn should sit still while others served , and to her mistress 's remarks as to the ironing , she hastened to reply , `` I 'd a heap sight rather do them up than to iron the boys ' coarse shirts and pantaloons . 
Fears that Eunice might rebel had been uppermost in Mrs. Markham 's mind when she saw the pile of elegant clothes , for she had a suspicion that Mrs. Ethelyn would keep as much aloof from the ironing-board as she did from the dish-washing ; but if Eunice was willing and even glad of the opportunity , why , that made a difference ; and the good woman began to feel so much better that by the time the last article was on the line , the kitchen floor cleared up , and the basin of water heating on the stove for her own ablutions , she was quite amiably disposed toward her grand daughter-in-law , who had not made her appearance since dinner . 
She should spend most of the time in the retirement of her room , mingling as little as possible with the family , and keeping at a respectful distance from her mother-in-law , whom she liked less than any of Richard 's relations . 
Melinda certainly has some taste ; possibly I may like her , '' and while cogitating upon Melinda Jones and the expected gayeties in Washington , she fell asleep ; nor did Richard 's step arouse her , when , about three o'clock , he came in from the village in quest of some law documents he wished to see . 
Frank Van Buren would probably have kissed her as she lay there sleeping so quietly ; but Richard was in a great hurry . 
MRS. JONES had risen earlier than usual that Monday morning , and felt not a little elated when she saw her long line of snowy linen swinging in the wind before that of her neighbor , whom she excused on the score of Richard 's wife . 
But when twelve o'clock , and even one o'clock struck , and still the back yard gave no sign , she began to wonder `` if any of 'em could be sick ; '' and never was flag of truce watched for more anxiously than she watched for something which should tell that it was all well at Mrs. Markham 's . 
The sign appeared at last , and with her fears quieted , Mrs. Jones pursued the even tenor of her way until everything was done , and her little kitchen was as shining as soap and sand and scrubbing-brush could make it . 
Whatever it was , Mrs. Jones was very anxious for a sight of Ethelyn ; and when her work was done she donned her alpaca dress , and tying on her black silk apron , announced her intention of `` running into Mrs. Markham 's , just a minute . 
And so about four o'clock the twain started for the house of Mrs. Markham , who welcomed them warmly . 
She was always glad to see Mrs. Jones , and she was doubly glad to day , for it seemed to her that some trouble had come upon her which made neighborly sympathy and neighborly intercourse more desirable than ever . 
`` She had got to stay and see Richard ; besides that , they were going to have waffles and honey , with warm gingerbread . '' 
Nobody who had once tested them could withstand Mrs. Markham 's waffles and gingerbread , -- Mrs. Jones certainly could not ; and when Eunice went up for Ethelyn that worthy woman was rocking back and forth in a low rocking-chair , her brass thimble on her finger and Tim 's shirt-sleeve in progress of making ; while Melinda , in her pretty brown merino and white collar , with her black hair shining like satin , sat in another rocking-chair , working at the bit of tetting she chanced to have in her pocket . 
Thus flattered and complimented , Ethelyn went down stairs to where Mrs. Jones sat working on Timothy 's shirt , and Melinda was crocheting , while Mrs. Markham , senior , clean and neat , and stiff in her starched , purple calico , sat putting a patch on a fearfully large hole in the knee of Andy 's pants . 
She had expected something fine , she said , -- something different from the Olney quality , -- but she was not prepared for anything as grand and queenly as Ethelyn , when she sailed into the room , with her embroidered handkerchief held so gracefully in her hands , and in response to Mrs. Markham 's introduction , bowed so very low , and slowly , too , her lips scarcely moving at all , and her eyes bent on the ground . 
`` Very pretty , '' Melinda thought , while Mrs. Jones fell to comparing her , mentally , with the deceased Abigail , -- wondering how Richard , if he had ever loved the one , could have fancied the other , they were so unlike . 
Of course , the mother 's heart gave to Abigail the preference for all that was good and womanly , and worthy of Richard Markham ; but Ethelyn bore off the palm for style , and beauty too . 
At this point Mrs. Markham stopped her patching and looked inquiringly at Ethelyn . 
It was the first she had heard about Ethelyn 's going to Washington ; she had understood that Richard 's wife was to keep her company during the winter , a prospect which since Ethelyn 's arrival had not looked so pleasing to her as it did before . 
How in the world they should get on together without Richard , she did not know , and if she consulted merely her own comfort she would have bidden Ethelyn go . 
But there were other things to be considered , -- there was the great expenseit would be for Richard to have his wife with him . 
Thus reasoned Mrs. Markham , and when next her needle resumed its work on Andy 's patch , Ethelyn 's fate with regard to Washington was decided , for as thought the mother on that point , so eventually would think the son , who deferred so much to her judgment . 
But Richard was shy in the presence of others , and would sooner have put his arm around Melinda than around his wife , for fear he should be thought silly . 
But when Ethelyn , who heard from Eunice of Andy 's distress , went out to see him , assuring him that but little damage had been done , that soft water and magnesia would make the dress all right again , he brightened up , and was ready to hold Mr. Harrington 's horse when after dark that gentleman drove over from Olney with his wife and sister to call on Mrs. Richard . 
It was rather early to call , the Olneyites knew , but there on the prairie they were not hampered with many of Mrs. Grundy 's rules , and several of the young people had agreed together between the Sunday services to call at Mrs. Markham 's the following night . 
They were well-meaning , kind-hearted people , and would any one of them have gone far out of their way to serve either Richard or his wife ; but awed by Ethelyn 's cold , frigid manner , they appeared shy and awkward , -- all except Will Parsons , the young M.D. of Onley , who joked , and talked , and laughed so loudly , that even Richard wondered he had never before observed how noisy Dr. Parsons was , while Andy , who was learning to read Ethelyn 's face , tried once or twice , by pulling the doctor 's coat-skirts and giving him a warning glance , to quiet him down a little . 
It was dreadful to Ethelyn , for she could see nothing agreeable in Richard 's friends ; and the proud look on her face was so apparent that the guests all felt ill at ease , while Richard was nearer being angry with Ethelyn than he had ever been . 
She had not touched her piano since her arrival , for fear of the home-sickness which its familiar tones might awaken ; and when she saw Tim 's big red hands fingering the keys , in her resentment at the desecration she said to herself that she never would touch it again ; but when in a low aside Melinda added to her entreaties , `` Please , Mrs. Markham , do n't mind Tim , -- he means well enough , and would not be rude for the world , if he knew it , '' she began to give way , and it scarcely needed Richard 's imperative `` Ethelyn '' to bring her to her feet . 
No one offered to conduct her to the piano , -- not even Richard , who sat just where he was ; while Tim , in his haste to vacate the music-stool , precipitated it to the floor , and got his leather shoes entangled in Ethelyn 's skirts . 
She would not even except Richard then , so intense was her disappointment and so bitter her regret for the mistake she made when she promised to go where her heart could never be . 
It was a very cross wife which slept at Richard 's side that night , and the opinion expressed of the Olneyites was anything but complimentary to the taste of one who had known them all his life and liked them so well . 
But Richard was getting accustomed to such things . 
But after the morning when Andy stood outside the door of her room , wringing his hands in great distress at the tone of Richard 's voice , and after the day Ethelyn stayed in bed with the headache , and was nursed by Eunice and Melinda , Ethelyn did better , and was at least polite to those who called . 
She had said she would not see them , and Richard had said she should ; and as he usually made people do as he liked , Ethelyn was forced to submit , but cried herself sick . 
It was very desolate and lonely up-stairs that day , for Richard was busy in town , and the wind swept against the windows with a mournful , moaning sound , which made Ethelyn think of Chicopee and the lofty elms through whose branches the same wind was probably sighing on this autumnal day . 
Melinda was very sorry for Ethelyn , and her face said as much as she stood by her side and laid her hand softly upon the throbbing temples , guessing just how homesick she was there with Mrs. Markham , whose ways had never seemed to peculiar , even to her , as since Ethelyn 's arrival . 
`` And still , '' she thought , `` I do not see how she can be so very unhappy , in any circumstances , with a husband like Richard . '' 
Wholly unsuspicious , Melinda sat down beside her , offering to brush her hair ; and while she brushed , and combed , and braided , and admired the glossy brown locks , she talked on the subject she thought most acceptable to the young wife 's ear , -- of Richard , and the great popularity he had achieved , not only in his own county , but in neighboring ones , where he stood head and shoulders above his fellows . 
There was talk once of making him Governor , she said , but some thought him too young . 
Lately , however , she had heard that the subject was again agitated , adding that her father and Tim both thought it more than probable that the next election would take him to the gubernatorial mansion . 
`` Timwould work like a hero for Richard , '' she said . 
So much Melinda said , by way of excusing Tim ; and then with the utmost tact she led the conversation back to Richard and the governorship , hinting that Ethelyn could do much toward securing that office for her husband . 
`` She 'll kick the whole thing over if she goes on so , '' Tim had said to his father , in Melinda 's hearing ; and , like a true friend to Richard , Melinda determined to try and prevent the proud little feet from doing so much mischief . 
She would have repelled the insinuation that she was courting favor , or that hopes of the future governorship for Richard had anything to do with her changed demeanor . 
She despised such things in others ; but Ethelyn was human , and it is just possible that had there been nothing in expectancy she would not have submitted with so good a grace to the familiarities with which she so constantly came in contact . 
At home she was cold and proud as ever , for between her mother-in-law and herself there was no affinity , and they kept as far apart as possible , -- Ethelyn staying mostly in her room , and Mrs. Markham senior staying in the kitchen , where Eunice Plympton still remained . 
Mrs. Markham had fully expected that Eunice would go home within a few days after Ethelyn 's arrival ; but when the days passed on , and Ethelyn showed no inclination for a nearer acquaintance with the kitchen , the good woman began to manifest some anxiety on the subject , and finally went to Richard to know if `` he expected to keep a hired girl all winter , or was Ethelyn going to do some light chores . '' 
Richard really did not know ; but after a visit to his room , where Ethie sat reading in her handsome crimson wrapper , with the velvet trimmings , he decided that she could `` not do chores , '' and Eunice must remain . 
It was on this occasion that Washington was broached , Mrs. Markham repeating what she had heard Ethelyn saying to Melinda , and asking Richard if he contemplated such a piece of extravagance as taking his wife to Washington would be . 
Richard did not especially mind the expense she might be to him , and he owned to a weak desire to see her queen it over all the reigning belles , as he was certain she would . 
But Ethie did not know it , as Richard wisely refrained from being the first to speak of the matter . 
That she was going to Washington Ethelyn had not a doubt , and this made her intercourse with the Olneyites far more endurable . 
It was easy to be polite to him , and to the people from Camden , who , hearing much of Judge Markham 's pretty bride , came out to call upon her , -- Judge Miller and his wife , with Marcia Fenton and Miss Ella Backus , both belles and blondes , and both somebodies , according to Ethelyn 's definition of that word . 
She liked these people , and Richard found no trouble in getting her to return their calls . 
She would gladly have stayed in Camden altogether , and once laughingly pointed out to Richard a large vacant lot adjoining Mr. Fenton 's , where she would like to have her new house built . 
There was a decided improvement in Ethelyn ; nor did her old perversity of temper manifest itself very strongly until one morning , three weeks after her arrival in Olney , when Richard suggested to her the propriety of his mother 's giving them a party . 
Then Ethelyn rebelled , -- stoutly , stubbornly re belled , -- but Richard carried the point , and two days after the farm-house was in a state of dire confusion , wholly unlike the quiet which reigned there usually . 
But having a party in Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's handsome house , where the servants were so well trained , and everything necessary was so easy of access , or even having a party at Aunt Barbara 's , was a very different thing from having one here under the supervision of Mrs. Markham , whose ideas were so many years back , and who objected to nearly everything which Ethelyn suggested . 
Mrs. Markham 's bed had been removed from the sitting-room , and the carpet taken from the floor , for they were going to dance ; and Eunice 's mother had been working hard all day to keep her liege lord away from the Cross Roads tavern , so that he might be presentable at night , and capable of performing his part , together with his eldest son , who played the flute . 
She was out in the kitchen now , very large and important with the office of head waiter , her hoops in everybody 's way , and her face radiant with satisfaction as she talked to Mrs. Markham about what webetter do . 
There were trifles , and tarts , and jellies , and sweetmeats , with raised biscuits by the hundred , and loaves on loaves of frosted cake ; while out in the wood-shed , wedged in a tub of ice , was a huge tin pail , over which James , and John , and Andy , and even Richard had sat , by turns , stirring the freezing mass . 
Melinda was very tired , for a good share of the work had fallen upon her , -- or rather she had assumed it , -- and her cheeks and hands were redder than usual when about seven o'clock Tim drove her over to Mrs. Markham 's , and then went on to the village after the dozen or more of girls whom he had promised `` to see to the doin 's . '' 
Since the night when Richard first told her of Ethelyn , it had more than once occurred to Melinda that possibly she might yet bear the name of Markham , for her woman-nature was quick to see that James , at least , paid her the homage which Richard had withheld . 
Richard thought her dress too low , while modest Andy averted his eyes , lest he should do wrong in looking upon the beautiful round neck and shoulders which so greatly shocked his mother . 
Mrs. Markham `` did not care for Miss Miller , nor forty more like her . 
Any superfluity of length in Ethelyn 's skirts was more than counterbalanced by Mrs. Markham , who this night wore the heavy black silk which her sister-in-law had matched in Boston ten years before . 
Ethelyn was perfect , Andy thought , and he hovered constantly near her , noticing how she carried her hands , and her handkerchief , and her fan , and thinking Richard must be perfectly happy in the possession of such a gem . 
But Richard was not happy , -- at least not that night , -- for , with Mrs. Miller , and Marcia Fenton , and Ella Backus before her mind , Ethelyn had lectured him again on etiquette , and Richard did not bear lecturing here as well as at Saratoga . 
There was a hush when the three ladies with veils on their heads went up the stairs , and a greater bush when they came down again , -- Mrs. Judge Miller , splendid in green moire-antique , with diamonds in her ears , while Marcia Fenton and Ella Backus figured in white tarleton , one with trimmings of blue , the other with trimmings of pink , and both with waists so much lower than Ethelyn 's that Mrs. Markham thought the latter very decent by comparison . 
The ruse succeeded , too , Richard 's eyes and low-toned `` Ethelyn ! '' 
Ethelyn could have screamed out with disgust , and the moment the set was over , she said to Richard , `` I shall not dance again to-night . '' 
Harry Clifford was a fast young man , but pleasant to talk with for a while , and Ethelyn found him very agreeable , saving that his mention of Frank made her heart throb unpleasantly ; for she fancied he might know something of that page in her past life which she had concealed from Richard . 
Nor were her fears without foundation , for once , when they were standing together near her husband , Harry said -- `` It seems so strange that you are the Ethie about whom Frank used to talk so much , and a lock of whose hair he kept so sacred . 
As the pawn was never redeemed , I have the hair now , but never expected to meet with its owner , who needs not to be told that the tress is ten-fold more valuable since I have met her , and know her to be the wife of our esteemed Member , '' and young Clifford bowed toward Richard , whose face wore a perplexed , dissatisfied expression . 
`` I mean to find out , '' he thought ; and watching an opportunity , when Ethelyn was comparatively alone , he crossed to her side and said , in a low tone , `` Excuse me , p597-156 Mrs. Markham . 
Instead of rebuking the impertinent young man , Ethelyn turned very red and stammered out something about its being of no consequence ; and so Harry Clifford held the secret which she had kept so carefully from Richard ; and that party in Camden was the stepping-stone to much of the wretchedness that afterward came to our heroine . 
RICHARD 'S trunk was ready for Washington . 
She knew it now , and never did face of a six-months ' wife look harder or stonier than hers as she stayed in her room , paying no heed whatever to Richard , and leaving entirely to Eunice and her mother-in-law those little things which most wives would have been delighted to do for their husband 's comfort . 
She had remained in Camden the most of the day following Mrs. Judge Miller 's party , and had done a little shopping with Marcia Fenton and Ella Backus , to both of whom she spoke of her winter in Washington as a matter of course , saying what she had to say in Richard 's presence , and never dreaming that he was only waiting for a fitting opportunity to demolish her castles entirely . 
But she had taken it for granted that she was going , and supposed that Richard understood it just as she did . 
She had asked him several times where he intended to board , and why he did not secure rooms at Willard 's , but Richard 's noncommittal replies had given her no cue to her impending fate . 
On the night of her return from Camden , as she stood by her dressing-burean , folding away her point-lace handkerchief , she had casually remarked , `` I shall not use this again till I use it in Washington . 
Richard was leaning his elbow upon the mantel , looking thoughtfully into the fire , and for a moment he did not answer . 
Never , Richard , never ! 
It is all -- '' she did not finish the sentence , for she would not say , `` It is all I married you for ; '' she was too much afraid of Richard for that , and so she hesitated , but looked at him intently to see if he was in earnest . 
She knew he was at last , -- knew that neither tears , nor reproaches , nor bitter scorn could avail to carry her point , for she tried them all , even to violent histerics , which brought Mrs. Markham , senior , into the field and made the matter ten times worse . 
Had she stayed away , Richard might have yielded , for he was frightened at the storm he had provoked ; but Richard was passive in his mother 's hand , and listened complacently while in stronger , plainer language than he had used she repeated in substance all he had said about the impropriety of Ethelyn 's mingling with the gay throng at Washington . 
And while she talked poor Ethelyn lay upon the lounge , writhing with pain and passion , wishing that she could die , and feeling in her heart that she hated the entire Markham race , from Richard down to innocent Andy , who heard of the quarrel going on between his brother and Ethelyn , and crept cautiously to the door of their room , wishing that he could mediate between them . 
This surely covered the ground to a very considerable extent ; or if it did not , the fervent `` Good Lord , deliver us , '' with which Andy finished his devotions , did ; and the simple-hearted , trusting man arose from his knees comforted and relieved , even if Richard and Ethelyn were not . 
With them the trouble continued , for Ethelyn kept her bed next day , refusing to see any one , and only answering Richard in monosyllables when he addressed himself directly to her . 
Once he bent over her and said , `` Ethelyn , tell me truly , -- is it your desire to be with me , your dread of separation from me , which makes you so averse to be left behind ? '' 
But though sorely tempted to do it , Ethelyn would not tell a falsehood for the sake of Washington ; so she made no reply , and Richard drew from her silence any inference he pleased . 
He was very wretched those last days , for he could not forget the look of Ethelyn 's eye or the sound of her voice when , as she finally gave up the contest , she said to him , with quivering nostrils and steady tones , `` You may leave me here , Richard , but remember this : not one line will I write to you while you are gone . 
It would be dreadful not to hear directly from Ethie during all the dreary winter , and Richard hoped she would recall her words ; but Ethelyn was too sorely wounded to do that . 
She must reach Richard somehow , and this was the way she would do it . 
She did not come down stairs again after it was settled . 
She was sick , she said , and kept her room , seeing no one but Richard and Eunice , who three times a day brought up her nicely-cooked meals and looked curiously at her as she deposited her tray upon the stand p597-161 and quietly left the room . 
Mrs. Markham did not go up at all , for Ethelyn charged her disappointment directly to her mother-in-law , and had asked that she be kept away ; and so , ` mid passion and tears and bitterness , the week went by and brought the day when Richard was to leave . 
THE gray light of a November morning was breaking over the prairies when Richard stooped down to kiss his wife , who did not think it worth her while to rise so early to see him off . 
She felt that she had been unjustly dealt with , and up to the very last maintained the same cold , icy manner so painful to Richard , who would fain have won from her one smile to cheer him in his absence . 
But the smile was not given , though the lips which Richard touched did move a little , and he tried to believe it was a kiss they meant to give . 
But when Richard was fairly gone , when the tones of his voice bidding his family good-by had ceased , and Ethelyn sat leaning on her elbow and listening to the sound of the wheels which carried him away , such a feeling of desolation and loneliness swept over her that , burying her face in the pillows , she wept bitterer tears of remorse and regret than she had ever wept before . 
It was always lonely the first day of Richard 's absence , but now it was drearier than ever ; and with a harsh , forbidding look upon her face , Mrs. Markham went about her work , leaving Ethelyn entirely alone . 
Ethie did not refuse these viands , and was gracious enough to thank her mother-in-law for her extra trouble ; but she did it in such a queenly as well as injured kind of way , that Mrs. Markham felt more aggrieved than ever , and , for a good woman , who sometimes spoke in meeting , slammed the door considerably hard as she left the room and went back to her kitchen , where the table had been laid ever since Ethelyn took to eating up-stairs . 
So long as she ate with the family Mrs. Markham felt rather obliged to take her meals in the front room , but it made a deal more work , and she was glad to return to her olden ways once more . 
She is no more sick than I am ; but I could n't make Richard b ` lieve it . '' 
`` Mother , you surely did not go to Richard with complaints of his wife , '' and James looked reproachfully across the table at his mother , who replied , `` I told him what I thought , for I wa 'n' t going to have him miserable all the time thinking how sick she was ; but I might as well have talked to the wind , for any good it did . 
It was a little strange that James and John and Andy all took Ethelyn 's part against their mother , and even against Richard , who they thought might have taken her with him . 
Richard had bidden him be kind to Ethie , and John had said he would ; and after that promise was given , had the farm-house been on fire the sturdy fellow would have perilled life and limb to save her for Dick . 
To James , too , Richard had spoken a word for Ethie , and to Andy also ; so there were left to her four champions in his absence , -- for Eunice had had her charge , with promises of a new dress if faithful to her trust ; and thus there was no one against poor Ethelyn saving the mother-in-law , who made that first dinner after Richard 's absence so uncomfortable that John left the table without touching the boiled indian-pudding , of which he was so fond , while James rather curtly asked what there was to be gained by spitting out so about Ethelyn , and Andy listened in silence , thinking how , by and by , when all the chores were done , he would take a basket of kindlings up for Ethie 's fire , and if she asked him to sit down , he would do so and try and come to the root of the matter , and see if he could not do something to make things a little better . 
It was a part of Richard 's bargain with Eunice that Ethie should always have a bright warm fire to dress by , and the first thing Ethelyn heard as she unclosed her eyes was the sound of Eunice blowing the coals and kindlings into a blaze as she knelt upon the hearth , with her cheeks and eyes distended to their utmost capacity . 
Mrs. Markham had been discreet enough to keep that from her ; and so she naturally ascribed Ethie 's tears to grief at parting with her husband , and tried in her homely way to comfort her . 
Three months were not very long ; they would pass very quickly , she said , adding that she heard Jimsay the night before that as soon as he got his gray colts broken he was going to take his sister all over the country and cheer her up a little . 
To Mrs. Markham 's credit we record that , with a view to please her daughter-in-law , a fire was that afternoon made in the parlor and Ethelyn solicited to come down , Mrs. Markham , who carried the invitation , urging that a change would do her good , as it was not well to stay always in one place . 
But Ethelyn preferred the solitude of her own chamber , and though she thanked her mother-in-law for her thoughtfulness , she declined going down , and Mrs. Markham had made her fire for nothing . 
She had seen no one but Mrs. Markham and Eunice since Richard went away , and she was wondering what had become of Andy , when she heard his shuffling tread upon the stairs , and a moment after , his round , shining face appeared , asking if he might come in . 
That 's what I call real courtin ' like , '' and Andy gave to Ethelyn the letter which John had brought from the office , and which a detention of the train at Stafford for four hours had afforded Richard an opportunity to write . 
It was only a few lines , meant for her alone , but Ethelyn 's cheek did not redden as she read them , or her eyes brighten one whit . 
Richard was well , she said , explaining to Andy the reason for his writing , and then she put the letter away , while Andy sat looking at her , and wondering what he should say next . 
He had come up to comfort her , but found it hard to begin . 
Ethie was very pale , and there were dark rings around her eyes , showing that she suffered , even if Mrs. Markham did assert there was nothing ailed her but spleen . 
Richard never told me what I was to expect , '' Ethelyn replied , without stopping to consider what she was saying . 
Andy always looked for direct answers to his prayers , and believing he had received one his face was radiant with content and satisfaction when after supper he brushed and wet his hair and plastered it down upon his forehead , and changed his heavy boots for a lighter pair of Richard 's , and then sat down before the parlor fire with the yarn sock he was knitting for himself . 
Every week James , or John , or Andy brought from the post a letter in Richard 's handwriting , directed to Mrs. Richard Markham , and once in two weeks Andy carried a letter to the post directed in Ethelyn 's handwriting to `` Richard Markham , M.C. , '' -- but Andy never suspected that the dainty little envelope , with a Boston mark upon it , enclosed only a blank sheet of paper ! 
Richard , '' she wrote , `` please take me away from here , -- to Camden , or Olney , or anywhere , -- so I can begin anew to be the wife I ought to be . 
I was never worthy of you , Richard . 
This letter , which would have done so much good , was never finished , for when the morning came there were troubled faces at the prairie farm-house , -- Mrs. Markham looking very anxious and Eunice very scared , James going for the doctor and Andy for Mrs. Jones , while up in Ethie 's room , where the curtains were drawn so closely before the windows , life and death were struggling for the mastery , and each in a measure coming off triumphant . 
RICHARD had not been happy in Washington . 
When Melinda Jones came , Richard brightened a little , for there was always a sense of comfort and rest in Melinda 's presence , and Richard spent much of his leisure in her society , accompanying her to concerts and occasionally to a levee , and taking pains to show her whatever he thought would interest her . 
Ethelyn had not kept her vow ; and with a throb of joy Richard tore open the envelope and removed the delicate tinted sheet inside . 
But there was none , and Richard felt for a moment as if all the world were as completely a blankas that bit of gilt-edged paper he crumpled so helplessly in his hand . 
Anon , however , hope whispered that she would write next time ; she could not hold out thus all winter ; and so Richard wrote again and again with the same success , until at last he expected nothing , and people said of him that he was growing old , while even Melinda noticed his altered appearance , and how fast his brown hair was turning gray . 
This news did Richard good , showing a better side of Ethie 's character than the one presented to him . 
There was some comfort in this , and so Richard bore his burden in silence , and no one ever dreamed that the letters he received with tolerable regularity were only blank , fulfilments of a hasty vow . 
She had also tried to patronize both Richard and Melinda , taking the latter with her to the theatre and to a reception , and trying to cultivate her for the sake of poor Ethie , who was obliged to associate with her , and people like her . 
She saw the difference , however , between men of cultivation and those who had none , and began to understand the cause of Ethelyn 's cold , proud looks when surrounded by Richard 's family . 
She began also silently to watch and criticise Richard , comparing him with other men of equal brain , and thinking how , if she were his wife , she would go to work to correct his manners . 
Ethie did want me confoundedly , and I would have married her if she had n't been poor as a church mouse , '' Frank muttered to himself , standing in the deep recess of the window , and all unconscious that just outside upon the balcony was a motionless form which had heard every word of his conversation with Melinda , and his soliloquy afterward . 
Richard Markham had come to this party to please Melinda , but he did not enjoy it . 
So much did Richard love his wife , and so anxious was he to find her guiltless , that he magnified every virtue and excused every error until the verdict rendered was in her favor , and Frank alone was the delinquent , -- Frank , the vain , conceited coxcomb , who thought because a woman was civil to him that she must needs wish to marry him ; Frank , the wretch who had presumed to pity his cousin , and called her husband a clown ! 
How Richard 's fingers tingled with a desire to thrash the insulting rascal ; and how , in spite of the verdict , his heart ached with a dull , heavy fear lest it might be true that Ethie had once felt for Frank something deeper than what girls usually feel for their first cousins . 
`` And supposing she has ? '' 
Richard 's generous nature asked . 
`` Supposing she did love Frank once on a time well enough to marry him ? 
She surely was all over that love before she promised to be my wife , else she had not promised ; and so the only point where she is at fault is in concealing from me the fact that she had loved another first . 
I was honest with her . 
I told her of Abigail , and it was very hard to do it , for I felt that the proud girl 's spirit rebelled against such as Abigail was years ago . 
Richard was waxing warm against Frank Van Buren , whom he despised so heartily that he put upon his shoulders all the blame concerning Ethelyn , if blame there were . 
He hardly knew when or how the idea occurred to him that Aunt Barbara 's presence would be more than acceptable to Ethelyn now ; but occur to him it did ; and Aunt Barbara , sitting by her winter fire and thinking of Ethelyn , was startled terribly by the missive which bade her join Richard Markham at Albany , on the morrow , and go with him to Iowa , where Ethie lay so ill . 
A pilgrimage to Mecca would scarcely have looked more formidable to the good woman than this sudden trip to Iowa ; but where her duty was concerned she did not hesitate ; and when at noon of the next day the New York train came up the river , the first thing Richard saw , as he walked rapidly toward the Central Depot at Albany , was Aunt Barbara 's bonnet protruding from the car window , and Aunt Barbara 's hand making frantic passes and gestures to attract his notice . 
FOR one whole week the windows of Ethelyn 's room were darkened as dark as Mrs. Markham 's heavy shawl and a patchwork quilt could make them . 
Up and down the stairs Mrs. Markham went softly , wishing that she had never harbored an unkind thought against the pale-faced girl lying so unconscious of all they were doing for her . 
In the kitchen below , with a scared look upon her face , Eunice washed and wiped her dishes , and wondered if Richard would get home in time for the funeral , and if he would order from Camden a metallic coffin such as Minnie Dayton had been buried in ; and Eunice 's tears fell like rain as she thought how terrible it was to die so young , and unprepared , too , as she heard Mrs. Markham say to the Methodist clergyman when he came over to offer consolation . 
This was one of Andy 's prayers , -- generous , unselfish Andy , -- who would have died for Ethelyn , and who had been in such exquisite distress since the night when Eunice first found Ethelyn moaning in her room , with her letter to Richard lying unfinished before her . 
She had been unconscious nearly all the time , saying once when Mrs. Markham asked `` Shall we send for Richard ? '' 
Life was not extinct , and Mrs. Markham 's lips moved with a prayer of thanksgiving when Mrs. Jones pointed to a tiny drop of moisture beneath the tangled hair . 
She was perfectly conscious now , and when told they had sent for Richard , manifested a good deal of interest , and asked when he would probably be there . 
They were expecting him every train ; but ere he came the fever , which seemed for a time to have abated , returned with double force , and Ethelyn knew nothing of the kisses Richard pressed upon her lips , or the tears Aunt Barbara shed over her poor darling . 
When Richard first came in Mrs. Markham wound her arm around his neck , and said , `` I am so sorry for you , my poor boy , '' while the three sons , one after another , had grasped their brother 's hand in token of sympathy , and that was all that had passed between them of greeting For the rest of the day Richard had sat constantly by Ethelyn , watching the changes of her face , and listening to her as she raved in snatches , now of himself , and the time he saved her from the maddened cow , and now of Frank and the huckleberries , which she said were ripening on the Chicopee hills . 
When she talked of this Richard held his breath , and once , as he leaned forward so as not to lose a word , he caught Aunt Barbara regarding him intently , her cheek flushing as she met his eye and guessed what was in his mind . 
If Richard had needed any confirmation of his suspicions , that look on transparent Aunt Barbara 's face would have confirmed them . 
There had been something between Ethelyn and Frank Van Buren more than a cousinly liking , and Richard 's heart throbbed painfully as he sat by the tossing , restless Ethelyn , moaning on about the buckleberry hills , and the ledge of rock where the wild laurels grew . 
There was a touching simplicity in Andy 's faith , which went to the heart of Richard , making him feel of how little avail was knowledge , or wisdom , or position , if there was lacking the one thing needful , which Andy so surely possessed . 
She did not notice Richard , or seem to know that she was elsewhere than Chicopee , back in the old home ; and Richard 's pulse throbbed quickly as he saw the flush come over Ethie 's face , and the look of pain creep into her eyes , when a voice broke the illusion and told her she was still in Olney , with him and the mother-in-law leaning over the bed-rail and saying , `` Speak to her , Richard . '' 
That was what he said , as he bent over her , seeking to p597-191 take in his own one of the feverish little hands locked so fast in those of Aunt Barbara . 
She did know then , and remember , and her lip quivered in a grieved , disappointed way as she said , `` Yes , Richard , I know now . 
She must not talk much , the physician said ; and so with one hand in Richard 's and one in Aunt Barbara 's she fell away to sleep again , while the family stole out to their usual avocations , -- Mrs. Markham and Eunice to their baking , James and John to their work upon the farm , and Andy to his Bethel in the wood-house chamber , where he repeated , `` Blessed be the Lord God of Israel who has visited and redeemed his people , '' and added at the conclusion the Gloria Patri , which he thought suitable for the occasion . 
It was pleasant , too , having Richard home again , and Ethie was very soft and kind , and amiable toward him ; but she did not tell him of the letter she had commenced , or hint at the confession he longed to hear . 
It would have been comparatively easy to write it , but with him there where she could look into his face and watch the dark expression which was sure to come into his eyes , it was hard to tell him that Frank Van Buren had held the first place in her affections , if indeed he did not hold it now . 
She was not certain yet , though she hoped and tried to believe that Frank was nothing more than cousin now . 
Had she guessed how much Richard knew , and how the knowledge was rankling in his bosom , she might have done differently . 
But she took the course she thought the best , and the perfect understanding Richard had so ardently hoped for was not then arrived at . 
She could not say that she loved her husband as a true wife ought to love a man like Richard Markham , but she found a pleasure in his society which she had never experienced before , while Aunt Barbara 's presence was a constant source of joy . 
Aunt Barbara and Mrs. Markham did not harmonize at all . 
Nobody could quarrel with Aunt Barbara , -- she was so mild , and gentle , and peaceable , -- and Mrs. Markham did not quarrel with her ; but she thought about her all the time , and fretted over her , and remembered the letter she had written about her waysand her being good to Ethie , and wondered what she was there for , and why she did not go home , and asked at last what time they generally cleaned house in Chicopee , and if she dared trust her cleaning with Betty . 
`` Merey knew , '' she said , `` that in her day , when she was sick , she did not hug the bed forever . 
She had something else to do , and was up and around in a fortnight at the most . 
Nobody was carryin ' her up glasses of milkpunch , and lemonade , and cups of tea , at all hours of the day . 
She was glad of anything , and got well the faster for it . 
Need n't tell her ! 
It 's airy enough out doors ; '' and with a most aggrieved look on her face , Mrs. Markham put into the oven the pan of soda-biscuit she had been making , and then proceeded to lay the cloth for tea . 
Eunice had been home for a day or two with a felon on her thumb , and thus a greater proportion of the work had fallen upon Mrs. Markham , which to some degree accounted for her ill-humor . 
But when , on the next rainy Sunday , she rode to church in her father 's lumber-wagon , holding the blue cotton umbrella over her old last year 's straw and water-proof , -- and when arrived at church she suffered James to help her to alight , jumping over the muddy wheel , and then going straight to her accustomed seat in the choir , which had missed her strong voice so much , -- the son changed his mind , and said she was the same as ever ; while after the day when she found Mrs. Markham making soap , and good-humoredly offered to watch it and stir it while that lady went into the house to see to the corn-pudding , which Eunice was sure to spoil if left to her own ingenuity , the mother , too , changed her mind , and wished Richard had been so lucky as to have fixed his choice on Melinda . 
He was very glad that Richard 's preference had fallen where it did , and his cheery whistle was heard almost constantly ; and after Tim Jones told , in his blunt way , how `` Melind was tryin ' to train him , and to make him more like them dandies at the big tavern in New York , '' he , too , began to amend , and taking Richard for his pattern , imitated him , until he found that simple , loving Andy , in his anxiety to please Ethelyn , had seized upon more points of etiquette than Richard ever knew existed ; and then he copied Andy , having this in his favor , that whatever he did himself was done with a certain grace inherent in his nature , whereas Andy 's attempts were awkward in the extreme . 
She was frequently at the farm-house ; but had not made what her mother called a visit until the afternoon when Mrs. Markham gave her opinion so freely of Aunt Barbara 's petting and its effect on Ethelyn . 
To her Aunt Barbara had confided her belief that it was not well for Ethelyn to stay there any longer , -- that she and Richard both would be better by themselves ; an opinion which Melinda heartily endorsed , and straightway set herself at work to form some plan whereby Aunt Barbara 's idea might be carried out . 
When Richard ran for Justice of the Peace , and she was a little girl , she had refused to speak to three other little girls who flaunted the colors of the opposition candidate ; and when he was nominated first for Judge and then as member for the district , she had worked for him quite as zealously as Tim himself , and through her more than one vote , which otherwise might have been lost , was cast in his favor . 
As she had worked for him , so she now worked for Ethelyn , -- approaching Richard very adroitly and managing so skilfully that when at last , on the occasion of her visit to his mother 's , Aunt Barbara asked him , in her presence and Ethelyn 's , if he had never thought it would be well both for himself and wife to live somewhere else than there at home , he never dreamed that he was echoing the very ideas Melinda had instilled into his mind by promptly replying that `` he had recently thought seriously of a change , '' and then asked Ethie where she would like to live , -- in Olney or in Camden . 
Her preference was Davenport , but to this Richard would not listen . 
Richard had no idea that Melinda was managing him , or that any one was managing him . 
It is true , the price of the rooms , which Melinda casually named , was enormous , but , then , Ethelyn 's health and happiness were above any moneyed consideration ; and so , while Mrs. Markham below made and moulded her soda-biscuit , and talked about dreading the hot weather if `` Ethelyn was going to be weakly , '' Aunt Barbara , and Melinda , and Richard settled a matter which made her eyes open wide with astonishment when , after the exit of the Joneses , it was revealed to her . 
Then , when she heard of the price , she opposed the plan with so much energy that , but for Aunt Barbara and Melinda Jones , Richard might have succumbed ; but the majority ruled , and Ethelyn 's eyes grew brighter , and her cheeks rounder , with the hope of leaving a place where she had been so unhappy . 
When Mrs. Markham found that they were really going , that nothing she could say would be of any avail , she gave up the contest , and , mother-like , set herself at work planning for their comfort , or rather for Richard 's comfort . 
They were to furnish their own rooms , and whatever expense Mrs. Markham could save her boy she meant to do . 
Left to himself and his mother 's guidance , Richard would undoubtedly have taken to Camden such a promiscuous outfit as would have made even a truckman smile ; but there were three women leagued against him , and so draft after draft was drawn from his funds in the Camden bank until the rooms were furnished ; and one bright morning in early June , a week after Aunt Barbara had started for Chicopee , Ethie bade her husband 's family good-by , and turning her back upon Olney , turned also the first leaf of her life 's history in the West . 
RICHARD was not happy in his new home ; it did not fit him like the old . 
Richard chafed under the criticisms to which he was so frequently subjected , and if he improved upon them in the least it was not perceptible to Ethelyn , who had just cause to blush for the careless habits of her husband , -- habits which even Molinda observed when in August she spent a week with Ethelyn , and then formed one of a party which went for a pleasure-trip to St. Paul 's and Minnehana . 
From this excursion , which lasted for two weeks , Richard returned to Camden in anything but an amiable frame of mind . 
Marcia Fenton and Ella Backus faded into nothingness when she was near , and they laughingly complained to Richard that his wife had stolen all their beaux away , and they wished he would make her do better . 
If charged with jealousy Richard would have denied it , though he did not care to have Ethelyn so much in Harry Clifford 's society . 
Richard knew nothing definite against Harry , except that he would occasionally drink more than was wholly in accordance with a steady and safe locomotion of his body ; and once it had been said at Hal 's boarding-house that the young lawyer was invisible for three entire days . 
It might make him worse , and she should stand by him as an act of philanthropy , she said to Richard when he asked what she saw to admire in that drunken Clifford . 
Richard had no idea that Ethelyn cared in the least for Harry Clifford ; he knew she did not , though she sometimes singled him out as one whose manners in society her husband would do well to imitate . 
Of the two young men , Harry Clifford and Frank Van Buren , who had been suggested to him as copies , Richard preferred the former , and wished he could feel as easy with regard to Frank as he was with regard to Harry . 
He had given up hoping for any confession from Ethelyn , though at first he was constantly expecting it , and laying little snares by way of hints and reminders ; but Ethelyn had evidently changed her mind , and if there was a past which Richard ought to have known , he would now probably remain in ignorance of it , unless some chance revealed it . 
It would have been far better if Richard had tried to banish all thoughts of Frank Van Buren from his mind , and taken Ethelyn as he found her ; but Richard was a man , and so , manlike , he hugged the skeleton which in part he had dragged into his home , and petted it , and kept it constantly in sight , instead of thrusting it out from the chamber of his heart , and barring the door against it . 
Frank 's name was never mentioned between him and Ethelyn , but Richard fancied that always after the receipt of Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's letters Ethelyn was a little sad , and more disposed to find fault with him , and he sometimes wished Mrs. Dr. Van Buren might never write to them again . 
There was one of her letters awaiting Ethelyn on her return from Minnesota , and she read it standing under the chandelier , with Richard lying upon the couch near by , and watching her curiously . 
There was something in the letter which disturbed her evidently , for her face flushed , and her lips shut firmly together , as they usually did when she was agitated . 
Richard always read Aunt Barbara 's letters , and heretofore he had been welcome to Mrs. Van Buren 's , a privilege of which he seldom availed himself , for he found nothing interesting in her talk of parties , and operas , and fashions , and the last new color of dress-goods , and style of wearing the hair . 
`` It was too much twaddle for him , '' he had once said in reply to Ethelyn 's question as to whether he would like to see what Aunt Van Buren had written . 
She did not know that Richard was listening to her , much less watching her , as he lay in the shadow , wondering what that letter contained , and wishing that he knew . 
Ethelyn was tired that night , and after the first heat of her excitement had been thrown off in a spirited Schottish , she closed her piano , and coming to the couch where Richard was lying , sat down by his side , and after waiting a moment in silence , asked `` of what he was thinking ? '' 
There was something peculiar in the tone of her voice , -- something almost beseeching , as if she either wanted sympathy , or encouragement for the performance of some good act . 
But Richard did not so understand her . 
But Harry had been greatly in his way , and Richard did not like it any more than he liked Ethelyn 's flirting so much with him , and leaving him , her husband , to look about for himself . 
On the whole , Richard was very uncomfortable in his mind , and Aunt Van Buren 's letter did not tend in the least to improve his temper ; so when Ethelyn asked of what he was thinking , and accompanied her question with a stroke of her hand upon his hair , he answered her , `` Nothing much , except that I am tired and sleepy . '' 
Every nerve in Richard 's body had been quivering with curiosity to see that letter , but now , when the coveted privilege was within his reach , he refused it ; and , little dreaming of all he was throwing aside , answered indifferently , `` No , I do n't know that I care to hear it . 
`` At Saratoga , '' Ethelyn replied ; but her voice was not the same which had addressed Richard first ; there was a coldness , a constraint in it now , as if her good resolution had been thrown back upon her and frozen up the impulse prompting her to the right . 
Richard had had his chance with Ethelyn and lost it . 
There was a window open in the parlor , and as the wind was rising with a sound of rain , Richard went to close it ere following his wife . 
It was the crumpled letter , which Ethelyn had accidentally drawn from her dress-pocket with the handkerchief she held in her hand when she sat down by Richard . 
They were stopping at the United States , and there was nothing particular at first , except her usual remarks of the people and what they wore ; but on the third page Richard 's eye caught Frank 's name , and skipping all else , leaped eagerly forward to what the writer was saying of her son . 
But Richard did not notice this , -- his mind was only intent upon Frank 's first love affair , which ought to have gone on . 
There was comfort in that thought ; and Richard would have been comforted if jealousy had not suggested how easy it was for her to skip the part relating to Nettie and Frank , and thus leave him as much in the dark as ever . 
This was what Richard decided , and his heart grew very hard against the young wife , who looked so innocent and pretty in her quiet sleep , when at last he sought his pillow and lay down by her side . 
Never in her girlish days had she been so beautiful as she was now ; but Richard seldom told her so , though he felt the magic influence of her beauty , and did not wonder that she was the reigning belle . 
He did not often accompany her himself . 
Parties , and receptions , and concerts , were bores , he said ; and at first he had raised objections to her going without him . 
But after motherly Mrs. Harris , who boarded in the next block , and was never happier than when chaperoning some one , offered to take her under the same wing which had sheltered six fine and now well-married daughters , Richard made no further objections . 
He did not wish to be thought a domestic tyrant ; he did not wish to seem jealous , and so he would wrap Ethie 's cloak around her , and taking her himself to Mrs. Harris ' carriage , would give that lady sundry charges concerning her , bidding her see that she did not dance till wholly wearied out , and asking her to bring her home earlier than the previous night . 
Ethie was not insensible to his kindness in allowing her to follow the bent of her own inclinations , even when it was so contrary to his own , and for his sake she did many things she might not otherwise have done . 
She snubbed Harry Clifford and the whole set of dandies like him , so that , though they danced , and talked , and laughed with her , they never crossed a certain line of propriety which she had drawn between them . 
She was very circumspect , and tried at first in various ways to atone to Richard for her long absence from him , by telling him whatever she thought would interest him ; and sometimes , when she found him waiting for her , and looking so tired and sleepy , she would playfully chide him for sitting up for her , and tell him that though it was kind in him to do so , she preferred that he should not . 
This was early in the season ; but after the day when Mrs. Markham , senior , came over from Olney to `` blow Richard 's wife up , '' as she expressed it , everything was changed , and Ethelyn stayed out as late as she liked without any concessions to Richard . 
Mrs. Markham , senior , had heard strange stories of Ethelyn 's proceedings , -- `` going to parties night after night , with her dress shamefully low , and going to plays and concerts bareheaded , with flowers and streamers in her hair , besides wearing a mask , and pretending she was Queen Hortense . '' 
`` A pretty critter to be , '' Mrs. Markham had said to the kind neighbor who had returned from Camden and was giving her the particulars in full of Ethelyn 's misdoings . 
I wonder at Richard 's lettin ' her ; but , law ! 
he is so blind and she so headstrong ! '' 
`` And he do n't go with her much , you say , '' she continued , feeling more aggrieved than ever when , in reply to her question , she heard that on the occasion of Ethie 's personating Hortense , Richard had also appeared as a knight of the Sixteenth Century , and borne his part so well that Ethelyn herself did not recognize him until the mask was removed . 
Mrs. Markham could not suffer such high-handed wickedness to go unrebuked , and taking as a peace-offering , in case matters assumed a serious aspect , a pot of gooseberry-jam and a ball of head-cheese , she started for Camden the very next day . 
Ethelyn did not expect her , but she received her kindly , and knowing how she hated a public table , had dinner served in her own room , and then , without showing the least impatience , waited a full hour for Richard to come in from the court-house , where an important suit was pending . 
Mrs. Markham was to return to Olney that night , and as soon as they were seated at the table , she brought the conversation round to the `` stories '' she had heard , and little by little laid on the lash till Ethelyn 's temper was roused , and she asked her mother-in-law to say out what she had to say at once , and not skirt round it so long . 
Then came the whole list of misdemeanors which Mrs. Markham thought `` perfectly ridiculous , '' asking her son how he `` could put up with such work . '' 
Richard wisely forbore taking either side ; nor was it necessary that he should speak for Ethie . 
She was fully competent to fight her own battle , and she fought it with a will , telling her mother-in-law that she should attend as many parties as she pleased and wear as many masks . 
She did not give up her liberty of action when she married . 
She was young yet , and should enjoy herself if she chose , and in her own way . 
This was all the satisfaction Mrs. Markham could get ; and supremely pitying `` her poor boy , '' whom she mentally decided was `` henpecked , '' she took the cars back to Olney , saying to Richard , who accompanied her to the train , `` I am sorry for you from the bottom of my heart . 
Richard liked his mother 's good opinion , but as he walked back to the hotel he could not help feeling that a mother 's interference between man and wife was never very discreet , and he wished the good woman had stayed at home . 
If he had said so to Ethelyn , when on his return to his rooms he found her weeping passionately , there might have come a better understanding between them , and she probably would have stayed with him that evening instead of attending the whist party given by Mrs. Miller . 
But he had determined to keep silent , and when Ethelyn asked if she was often to be subjected to such insults , he did not reply . 
He went with her , however , to Mrs. Miller 's , and knowing nothing of cards , almost fell asleep while waiting for her and playing backgammon with another fellow-sufferer , who had married a young wife and was there on duty . 
Mrs. Markham , senior , did not go to Camden again ; and when Christmas came , and with it an invitation for Richard and his wife to dine at the farm-house on the turkey Andy had fattened for the occasion , Ethelyn peremptorily declined ; and as Richard would not go without her , Mrs. Jones and Melinda had their seats at table , and Mrs. Markham wished for the hundredth time that Richard 's preference had fallen on the latter young lady instead of `` that headstrong piece who would be his ruin . '' 
Richard had not opposed her joining it , and he walked over piles of ancient-looking finery , and got his boot tangled in the wigwhich Ethie had hunted up , and was persuaded into saying he would go to the party himself , not as a masquer , but in his own proper person as Richard Markham , the grave and dignified Judge whom the people respected so highly . 
She would always rather have him with her , if possible ; and the genuine satisfaction she evinced when he said he would accompany her went far toward reconciling him to the affair about which so much was being said in Camden . 
She meant this kindly , for she saw that he was looking pale and haggard , and Richard took it so then ; but afterward her words became so many scorpions , stinging him into fury . 
Richard saw the note just as he saw the other litter , but paid no attention to it then , and after supper was over went out as usual for his evening paper . 
Richard was never greatly interested in gossip of any kind , but something impelled him now to ask of whom they were talking . 
Richard had no time to waste in words upon Harry Clifford , and after hearing the story started for his boarding-place . 
He was just drunk enough to be sociable , and spying Richard by the light of the lamp-post he hurried to his side , and taking his arm in the confidential manner he always assumed when intoxicated , he began talking in a half-foolish , half-rational way , very disgusting to Richard , who tried in vain to shake him off . 
Richard asked , turning sharply upon his companion , who continued -- `` Why , Frank Van Buren . 
Richard did not try now to shake off his comrade . 
Serves him right for being so mean to Mrs. Markham , and I told him so when he opened his heart and told me all about it ; how his mother broke it up about the time you were down there ; and how she went to the altar with a heavier heart than she would have carried to her coffin . 
Richard grew faint and cold as death , feeling one moment an impulse to knock young Clifford down , and the next a burning desire to hear the worst , if , indeed , he had not already heard it . 
Harry was just enough beside himself to take a malicious kind of satisfaction in inflicting pain upon Richard , as he was sure he was doing . 
and Harry loosed his hold of Richard 's arm as they reached the corner of a street . 
Wholly stunned with what he had heard , Richard kept on his way , but not toward the Stafford House . 
Richard saw that she was out , and sinking into the first chair , his eye fell upon the notelying near the bureau-drawer . 
The room had partially been put to rights , but this had escaped Ethie 's notice , and Richard picked it up , glowering with rage , and almost foaming at the mouth when , in the single word `` Ethie , '' on the back , he recognized Frank Van Buren 's writing , which he had often seen on the back of his mother 's letters . 
Your devoted Words could not express Richard 's emotions as he held that note in his shaking hand , and gazed at the words , `` My own darling Ethie . '' 
Quiet men like Richard Markham are terrible when aroused ; and Richard was terrible in his anger , as he sat like a block of stone contemplating the proof of his wife 's unfaithfulness . 
He called it by that hard name , grating his teeth together as he thought of her going by appointment to meet Frank Van Buren , who had called him an `` old maid , '' and planned to have him left behind if possible . 
Richard was too much excited to reason upon anything , and stood leaning upon the piano , with his face turned toward the door , when Ethie made her appearance , looking very pretty and piquant in her Mary Stuart guise . 
She held her mask in her hand , but when she caught a glimpse of him she hastily adjusted it , and springing forward , exclaimed , `` Where were you so long ? 
Had anything been wanting to perfect Richard 's wrath , that allusion to an `` old maid '' would have done it . 
It was the drop in the brimming bucket , and Richard exploded at once , hurling such language at Ethelyn 's head that , white and scared , and panting for breath , she put up both her hands to ward off the storm , and asked what it meant . 
Richard had locked the door , the only entrance to their room , and stooping over Ethelyn , he hissed into her ear his meaning , telling her all he had heard from Harry Clifford , and asking if it were true . 
Ere Ethelyn could reply there was a knock at the door , and a servant 's voice called out , `` Carriage waiting for Mrs. Markham . '' 
It was the carriage sent by Mrs. Miller for Ethelyn , and quick as thought Richard stepped to the door , and unlocking it , said , hastily , `` Give Mrs. Miller Mrs. Markham 's compliments , and say she can not be present to-night . 
Tell her she regrets it exceedingly ; '' and Richard 's voice was very bitter and sarcastic in its tone as he closed the door upon the astonished waiter ; and relocking it , he returned again to Ethelyn , who had risen to her feet , and with a different expression upon her face from the white , scared look it had worn at first , stood confronting him fearlessly now , and even defiantly , for this bold step had roused her from her apathy ; and in a fierce whisper , which , nevertheless , was as clear and distinct as the loudest tones could have been , she asked , `` Am I to understand that I am a prisoner here in my own room ? 
`` It is ; '' and with his back against the door , as if doubly to bar her egress , Richard regarded her gloomily , while he charged her with the special reason why she wished to go . 
`` It was to meet Frank Van Buren , your former lover , '' he said , asking if she could deny it . 
`` Richard , '' she began , and her eyes had a strange , glittering light in them , `` with regard to the past I shall say nothing now , but that Frank was here in Camden I had not the slightest knowledge till I heard it from you . 
Believe me , Richard , and let me go . 
Richard was moved from his lofty height of wrath and vindictiveness , but he did not believe her . 
The virgin queen of England was never more stony and inexorable with regard to the unfortunate Mary than was Richard toward his wife , and the expression of his face froze all the better emotions rising in Ethie 's heart , as she felt that in a measure she was reaping a just retribution for her long deception . 
`` I do not believe you , madam , '' Richard said ; `` and if I were inclined to do so , this note , which Harry said was sent to you , and which I found upon the floor , would tell me better ; '' and tossing into her lap the soiled bit of paper , accomplishing so much harm , he continued , `` There is my proof ; that , in conjunction with the name of opprobrium , which you remember you insinuatingly used , asking if you were pretty enough to make the old maidElizabeth jealous . 
Richard could not get over that epithet . 
Richard asked , and his voice recalled Ethelyn from the long-ago back to the present time . 
He was waiting for her answer ; but Ethie had none to give . 
Her hot , imperious temper was in the ascendant now . 
She was a prisoner for the night ; her own husband was the jailer , who she felt was unjust to her , and she would made no explanations , at least not then . 
He might think what he liked or draw any inference he pleased from her silence . 
And so she made him no reply , except to crush into her pocket the paper which she should have burned on that morning when , crouching on the hearth-stone at home , she destroyed all other traces of a past which ought never to have been . 
He could not make her speak , and his words of reproach might as well have been given to the winds as to that cold , statue-like woman , who mechanically laid aside the fanciful costume in which she was arrayed , doing everything with a deliberation and coolness more exasperating to Richard than open defiance would have been . 
A second knock at the door , and another servant appeared , saying , apologetically , that the note he held in his hand was left at the office for Mrs. Markham early in the morning , and forgotten till now . 
It is mine , '' Ethelyn said , and something in her voice and manner kept Richard quiet while she took the offered note and went back to the chandelier , where , with a compressed lip and burning cheek , she read the genuine note sent by Frank . 
Richard still intended to take the early train for St. Louis , and so he retired at last ; but Ethelyn sat where she was until the carriages taking the revellers home had passed , and the lights were out in Mrs. Miller 's windows , and the bell of St. John 's had ushered in the second hour of the fast . 
Something like this he said to her when , in the gray dawn , he stood before her , equipped for his journey ; but Ethelyn did not respond , and with her cold , dead silence weighing more upon him than bitter reproaches would have done , Richard left her and took his way through the chill , snowy morning to the depot , little dreaming , as he went , of when and how he and Ethelyn would meet again . 
She had breakfasted in her room after Richard left , and when that was over had gone mechanically to her closet and drawers and commenced sorting her clothes , -- hanging away the expensive dresses , and laying across chairs and upon the bed the more serviceable ones , such as might properly be worn on ordinary occasions . 
Why she did this she had not yet clearly defined , and when , after her wardrobe was divided , and she brought out her heavy travelling trunk , she was not quite certain what she meant to do . 
She had been sorely wounded , and , as she thought , without just cause . 
She knew she was to blame for not having told Richard of Frank before she became his wife , but of the things with which he had so severely charged her she was guiltless ; and every nerve quivered and throbbed with passion and resentment as she recalled the scene of the previous night , going over again with the cruel words Richard had uttered in his jealous anger , and then burning with shame and indignation as she thought of being locked into her room , and kept from attending the masquerade , where her absence must have excited so much wonder . 
she thought , just as Mrs. Howard 's voice was heard in the upper hall . 
Service was over , and several of the more intimate of Ethie 's friends had stopped at the Stafford House to see her . 
Slowly but surely the flame had been dying out , and Richard had never been so near to winning his wife 's entire devotion as on that fatal night when , by his jealousy and rashness , he built so broad a gulf between them . 
Every article which Richard had bought was laid aside and put away in the drawers and bureaus she would never see again . 
These were not numerous , for her bridal trousseau had been so extensive that but few demands had been made upon her husband 's purse for dress , and Ethelyn felt glad that it was so . 
Daisy never intended it for a runaway wife , and Ethelyn must leave it where Richard would find it when he came back and found her gone . 
And then as Ethie in her anger exulted over Richard 's surprise and possible sorrow when he found himself deserted , some demon from the pit whispered in her ear , `` Give him back the wedding ring . 
She would thus throw Richard off the track if he tried to follow her , and also avoid immediate remark in the hotel . 
She had made them so herself , sweeping and dusting , and even leaving Richard 's dressing-gown and slippers by the chair where he usually sat the evenings he was at home . 
The vacancy left by the piano would strike him at once , she knew ; and so she moved a tall bookcase up there , and put a sofa where the bookcase had been , and a large chair where the sofa had been , and pushed the centre-table into the large chair 's place ; and then her work was done , -- the last she would ever do in that room , or for Richard , either . 
The last of everything is sad , and Ethie felt a thrill of pain as she whispered to herself , `` It is the last , last time , '' and then thought of the outer world which lay all unknown before her . 
She would not allow herself to think long , lest her courage should give way ; and she tried , by dwelling continually upon Richard 's cruel words , to steel her heart against the good impulses which were beginning to suggest that what she was doing might not , after all , be the wisest course . 
`` I will tell him how thoughts of him almost deterred me from my purpose , '' and opening her little writing-desk , which Richard gave her at Christmas , she took up her pen and held it poised a moment , while something said , `` Write to Richard , too . 
And so the name which Ethie first wrote down upon the paper was not `` Dear Brother Andy , '' but simply that of `` Richard . '' 
RICHARD : I am going away from you forever , and when you recall the words you spoke to me last night , and the deep humiliation you put upon me , you will readily understand that I go because we can not live together any longer as man and wife . 
You said things to me , Richard , which women find hard to forgive , and which they never can forget . 
`` Let me tell you about it , Richard , -- how I happened to be engaged to Frank , and how wounded , and sore , and sorry I was when you came the second time to Chicopee , and asked me to be your wife . '' 
Then she spoke of meeting Richard , and the train of circumstances which finally led to their betrothal . 
She did not tell him how she at first shrank away from his caresses ; but she confessed that she did not love him , even when taking the marriage vow . 
`` But I meant to be true to you , Richard . 
You did wrong , Richard , not to take me with you , when I wanted so much to go . 
I know that , after what happened , you and your mother think you were fully justified in what you did ; but , Richard , you are mistaken . 
Had it lived , Richard , I should have been a better woman than I am now . 
Think , Richard . 
`` Good-by , Richard . 
She did not stop to read what she had written . 
There was not time for that , and taking a fresh sheet , she wrote : `` Dear , darling Andy : -- If all the world were as good , and kind , and true as you , I should not be writing this letter , with my arrangements made for flight . 
Richard will tell you why I go . 
She needs your prayers so much , for she can not pray herself . 
So the letters were directed , and put , with Daisy 's ring , in the little drawer of the bureau , where Richard would be sure to find them when he came back . 
Perhaps , as Ethie put them there , she thought how they might be the means of a reconciliation ; that Richard , after reading her note , would move heaven and earth to find her , and having done so , would thence-forth be her willing slave ; possibly , too , remembering the harsh things he had so recently said to her , she exulted a little as she saw him coming back to his deserted home , and finding his domestic altar laid low in the dust . 
But if this were so she gave no sign , and though her face was deathly pale , her nerves were steady and her voice calm , as she gave orders concerning her baggage , and then when it was time , turned the key upon her room , and left it with the clerk , to whom she said , `` I shall not be back until my husband returns . '' 
She was going to Olney , of course , the landlady said , when she heard Mrs. Markham had gone ; and so no wonder was created among the female boarders , except that Ethelyn had not said good-by to a single one of them . 
On his way to the cars he had called again at the Stafford House , and learned that Mrs. Markham was out . 
Never once dreaming how near he was to her , Ethie entered the car , and drew her veil and furs more closely around her , and turning her face to the frosty window , gazed drearily out into the wintry darkness as they sped swiftly on . 
She hardly knew where she was going or what she could do when she was there . 
She was conscious only of the fact that she was breaking away from scenes and associations which had been so distasteful to her , -- that she was leaving a husband who had been abusive to her , and she verily believed she had just cause for going . 
The world might not see it so , perhaps , but she did not care for the world . 
She was striking out a path of her own , and with her heart as sore and full of anger as it then was , she felt able to cope with any difficulty , so that her freedom was achieved . 
Perhaps she could see the farm-house ; and rubbing with her warm palm the moisture from the window-pane , she looked wistfully out in the direction of Richard 's home . 
Yes , there it was , and a light was shining from the sitting-room window , as if they expected her . 
But Ethie was not going there ; and with a sigh as she thought of Andy so near , yet separated so widely from her , she turned from the window and rested her tired head upon her hands while they stayed at Olney . 
It was only a moment they stopped , but to Ethie it seemed an age ; and her heart almost stopped its beating when she heard the voice of terrible Timjust outside the car . 
He was not coming in , as she found after a moment of breathless waiting ; he was only speaking to an acquaintance , who p597-238 stepped inside and took a seat by the stove , just as the train plunged again into the darkness , leaving behind a fiery track to mark its progress across the level prairie . 
RICHARD had been very successful in St. Louis . 
But Richard was ill at ease , and his face wore a sad , gloomy expression , which many remarked , wondering what could be the nature of the care so evidently preying upon him . 
Besides this , Richard was thinking of all he had said to her in the heat of passion , and wishing he could recall it in part at least . 
He was very indignant , very angry still , for he believed her guilty of planning to meet Frank Van Buren at the party and leave him at home , while his heart beat with keen throbs of pain when he remembered that Ethie 's first love was not given to him , -- that she would have gone to her grave more willingly than she went with him to the altar ; but he need not have been so harsh with her , -- that was no way to make her love him . 
Kindness must win her back should she ever be won , and impatient to be reconciled , if reconciliation were now possible , Richard chafed at the necessary delays which kept him a day longer in St. Louis than he had at first intended . 
The light snow which had fallen that day was lying upon the front door-steps , undisturbed by any track , so Richard entered at the side . 
Mrs. Markham was dipping candles , and the faint , sickly odor of the hot melted tallow , which filled Richard 's olfactories as he came in , was never forgotten , but remembered as part and parcel of that terrible day which would have a place in his memory so long as being lasted . 
Richard had seen his mother dip candles before , -- nay , had sometimes assisted at the dipping . 
He had seen her short striped gown and blue woollen stockings , and smelled the cooking cabbage , but they never struck him with so great a sense of discomfort as they did to-day when he stood , hat in hand , wondering why home seemed so cheerless . 
He had no thought that any harm had come to Ethie , and yet his first question was for her . 
Mrs. Markham 's under-jaw dropped , in the way peculiar to her when at all irritated , but she did not answer at once ; she waited a moment , while she held the rod poised over the iron kettle , and with her forefinger deliberately separated any of the six candles which showed a disposition to stick together ; then depositing them upon the frame and taking up another rod , she said -- `` Miss Plympton was down to Camden three or four days ago , and she said Ann Merrills , the chamber-maid at the Stafford House , told her Ethelyn had come to Olney to stay with us while you was away ; but she must have gone somewhere else , as we have not seen her here . 
Richard asked , with a sudden spasm of fear , for which he could not account , and which was not in anywise diminished by his mother 's reply : `` Ann said she took the six o'clock train for Olney , and as Miss Amsden lives beyond us , it 's likely she went there , and is home by this time . '' 
Richard accepted this supposition ; but it was far from reassuring him . 
There were lights below , and lights above , but the second floor was dark , the shutters closed , and all about them a look of silence and desertion which quickened Richard 's footsteps to a run . 
She had not expected him so soon . 
This was what Richard said , as he went down to the office for the key , which the clerk handed him , with the remark , `` Mrs. Markham went to Olney the very day you left . 
I thought perhaps you would stop there and bring her home . '' 
Richard did not reply , but hurried back to the darkened room , where everything was in order ; even Ethie 's workbox was in its usual place upon the little table , and Ethie 's chair was standing near ; but something was missing , -- something besides Ethie , -- and its absence made the room look bare and strange as the gas-light fell upon it . 
It must be the latter , and Richard looked for it in every corner , even searching in the bed-room and opening the closet door , as if so ponderous a thing could have been hidden there ! 
the talkative man continued , as he saw the blank expression on Richard 's face and construed it into disapprobation of the bargain . 
It was her piano , not mine , '' Richard said , huskily . 
Then feeling the necessity of a little duplicity , he said , `` Mrs. Markham went the same day I did , I believe ? '' 
`` Really , now , I do n't know whether 't was that day or the next , '' Mr. Bailey replied , showing that what was so important to Richard had as yet made but little impression upon him . 
He had been to call upon a friend who occupied the floor above , and seeing Richard , came forward to speak to him , the look of shame upon his face showing that he had not forgotten the circumstances under which they had last met As Harry came in Mr. Bailey disappeared , and so the two men were alone when Richard asked , `` Do you know what day Mrs. Markham left Camden ? '' 
Richard tried to be natural . 
Blaming himself for what he remembered to have said , he would not now willingly annoy Richard , and he answered , indifferently , `` She went the same day that you did ; that is , she left here on the six o'clock train . 
I know , for I called in the evening and found her gone . '' 
`` Was she going to Olney ? '' 
Richard 's lips asked this rather than his will , and Harry replied , `` I suppose so . 
Is n't she there ? '' 
It was an impudent question , but prompted purely by curiosity , and Richard involuntarily answered , `` She has not been there at all . '' 
Harry said this , and Richard staggered forward , till he leaned upon the door-post , while his face was ashy pale . 
Harry had disliked Richard Markham , who he knew so strongly disapproved of his conduct ; but he pitied him now and tried to comfort him . 
I hardly think he saw her , either . 
Maybe she is somewhere . '' 
Yes , maybe she was somewhere , but so long as Richard did not know where , it was poor comfort for him . 
One thing , however , he could do , -- he could save her good name until the matter was further investigated ; and pulling Harry after him into his room , he sat down by the cold , dark stove , over which he crouched shiveringly , while he said , `` Ethie has gone to visit a friend , most likely , -- a Mrs. Amsden , who lives in the direction of Olney . 
She has only gone to Mrs. Amsden 's , '' Richard replied , his teeth chattering and his voice betraying all the fear and anguish he tried so hard to hide . 
She 's only gone to visit Mrs. Amsden , '' and Richard whispered the words `` gone to visit Mrs. Amsden . '' 
At last the clock struck eleven , and then Richard roused from his lethargy and said , `` The next train for Olney passes at twelve . 
Richard hardly knew why he was going back to Olney , unless it were from a wish to be near his own kith and kin in this his hour of sorrow . 
He knew that Ethie had gone , and the Mrs. Amsdenruse was thrown out for the benefit of Harry , who , frightened at the expression of Richard 's face , did not dare leave him alone until he saw him safely on board the train which an hour later dropped him upon the slippery platform in Olney , and then went speeding on in the same direction Ethie once had gone . 
Mrs. Markham 's candles were finished , and in straight , even rows were laid away in the candle-box , the good woman finding to her great satisfaction that there were just ten dozen , besides the slim little thing she had burned during the evening , and which , with a long crisp snuff , like the steeple of a church , was now standing on the chair by her bed . 
They had sat up later than usual at the farm-house that night , for Melinda and her mother had been over there , and the boys had made molasses candy , and `` stuck up '' every dish and spoon , as Mrs. Markham said . 
Mrs. Markham had no suspicion of the trial in store for her , but for some cause she felt restless and nervous , and even scary , as she expressed it to herself . 
`` Worked too hard , I guess , '' she thought , as she tied on her high-crowned , broad-frilled night-cap , and then wound the clock before stepping into bed . 
It was nearly midnight , and for some little time she lay awake listening to the wind as it swept past the house , or screamed through the key-hole of the door . 
But she did not hear the night train when it thundered through the town ; nor the gate as it swung back upon its hinges ; nor the swift step coming up the walk ; nor the tap upon her window until it was repeated , and Richard 's voice called faintly , `` Mother , mother , let me in ! '' 
With a start Mrs. Markham awoke , and springing up listened till the voice said again , `` Mother , mother , it 's I ; let me in ! '' 
The Japan candle-stick Andy had secured was dropped in a trice , and adjusting his trowsers as he descended the stairs , he reached the door simultaneously with his mother , and pulling Richard into the hall , asked why he was there , and what had happened . 
Richard did not know for certain as anything had happened . 
`` It is very cold ; make more fire , '' Richard said , shivering , as the sleet came driving against the window ; and in an instant all the morning 's kindlings were thrust into the stove , where they roared , and crackled , and hissed , and diffused a sense of warmth and comfort through the shadowy room . 
`` What is it , Richard ? 
She sold her piano , and took the money , and her trunk , and her clothes , and went to visit Mrs. Amsden . '' 
This was Richard 's explanation , which Andy thought a mighty funny reason for his brother 's coming at midnight , and frightening them so terribly . 
She knew there was something underlying all this , -- something which would require all her skill and energy to meet , -- and her face was almost as white as Richard 's as she asked , `` Why do you think she has gone to Mrs. Amsden 's ? '' 
and Richard looked up at her in a bewildered , helpless way , which showed that all he knew upon the Amsden question was what she had said herself , and that was hardly enough to warrant a conclusion of any kind . 
she asked next , and Richard 's head dropped , and his eyes were cast down in shame , as he replied -- `` Yes ; we -- quar -- . 
Andy asked , in great perplexity ; and his mother answered for Richard -- `` It means just this , as far as I can see : Ethelyn has got mad at Richard for keepin ' her in , which he orto have done long ago , and so , with her awful temper , she has run away . '' 
Mrs. Markham had defined it at last , -- had put into words the terrible thing which had happened , the disgrace which she saw coming upon them ; and with this definition of it she , too , defined her own position with regard to Ethelyn , and stood bristling all over with anger and resentment , and ready to do battle for her son against the entire world . 
Andy gasped , and his face was whiter than Richard 's . 
Andy was down on one knee now , and looking into Richard 's face with a look which would almost have brought Ethie back could she have seen it . 
Andy had faith in her , and Richard clung to himrather than to the mother denouncing her so bitterly . 
Richard let them manage it all for him . 
Richard , of course , could not go . 
RICHARD knew she was not there , -- at least all the probabilities were against it ; and still he clung to the vague hope that Andy would bring him some good news , and his thoughts went after the brother whose every breath was a prayer , as he galloped over the snowy ground toward Mrs. Amsden 's . 
Andy was in his saddle now , and his fleet steed flew swiftly along toward home , where they waited so anxiously for him , Richard tottering to the window so as to read his fate in Andy 's face . 
Richard did not mean to say that last . 
Richard tried to put her off , but she would know what he meant , and so to her and his three brothers he told as little as he could and make any kind of a story , and as he talked his heart hardened toward Ethie , who had done him this wrong . 
It seemed a great deal worse when put into words , and the whole expression of Richard 's face was changed when he had finished speaking , while he was conscious of feeling much as he had felt that night when he denounced Ethie so terribly to her face . 
Richard said , while the great ridges deepened in his forehead , and a hard , black look crept into his eyes , and about the corners of his mouth . 
Richard was walking up and down the room , white with rage , as he said this , and Andy , cowering in a corner , was looking on and listening . 
He did not speak until Richard declared his incapacity for forgiving Ethie , when he started up , and confronting the angry man , said to him , rebukingly : `` Hold there , old Dick ! 
Ethie might have ran away , but she had surely gone alone , they said , and their advice was that Richard should follow her as soon as possible . 
But Richard would not listen to such a proposition now , and , quietly aided and abetted by his mother , he still declared his intention of `` letting her alone . '' 
`` If she has gone with that villain , '' -- and Richard ground his teeth together , -- `` she can never come back again to me . 
Richard seemed very determined and unrelenting , and , knowing how useless it was to reason with him when in so stern a mood , his brothers gave up the contest , Andy thinking within himself how many , many times a day he should pray for Ethie that she might come back again . 
Richard would not return to Camden that day , he said . 
The darkness was terrible to Richard , for it shut out from his view that strip of road which seemed to him a part of Ethie . 
She had been there last , and possibly looked up at the old home , -- her first home after her marriage ; possibly , too , she had thought of him . 
She surely did , if , as Andy believed , she was alone in her flight . 
If notalone , he wanted no thought of hers ; and Richard 's hands were clenched as he moved from the darkening window , and took his seat behind the stove , where he sat the entire evening , like some statue of despair , brooding over his ruined hopes . 
Always communicative to the Jones family , Mrs. Markham told the story without reserve , not even omitting the Van Buren part , but asking as a precaution that Melinda would not spread a story which would bring disgrace on them . 
She , like Andy , would swear to that , and she said as much to Richard , taking Ethie 's side as strongly as she could , without casting too much blame on him . 
And Richard felt better , hearing Ethie upheld and spoken for , even if it were against himself . 
There was a letter for Richard that night , from Harry Clifford , who wrote as follows : -- `` I do not know whether you found your wife at Mrs. Amsden 's or not ; but I take the liberty of telling you that Frank Van Buren has returned , and solemnly affirms that if Mrs. Markham was on board the train which left here on the 17th , he did not know it . 
Neither did he see her at all when in Camden . 
He called on his way to the depot that night , and was told she was out . 
was Richard 's exclamation , as in the first revulsion of feeling he sprang from his chair , while every feature of his face was irradiated with joy . 
But Andy 's faith was to be put to a stronger test , and his countenance fell a little when Richard explained the nature of the letter . 
Ethie was not found ; she was only proved innocent of the terrible thing Richard had feared for her , and in being proved innocent , she was for a moment almost wholly restored to his favor . 
She would come back some time . 
She could not mean to leave him forever . 
She was only doing it for a scare , and to punish him for what he did that night . 
He deserved some punishment , too , he thought , for he was pretty hard on her ; and as he surely had been punished in all he had suffered during the last forty-eight hours , he would , when she came back , call everything even between them , and begin anew . 
This was Richard 's reasoning ; and that night he slept soundly , dreaming that Ethie had returned , and on her knees was suing for his forgiveness , while her voice was broken with tears and choking sobs . 
As a man and husband who had been deserted , it was his duty to remain impassive a few moments , while Ethie atoned fully for her misdeeds ; then he would forgive her ; and so he waited an instant , and while he waited he woke to find only Andy , with whom he was sleeping , kneeling by the bedside , with the wintry moonlight falling on his upturned face , as he prayed for the dear sister Ethie , whose steps had `` mewandered '' so far away . 
This was Andy 's prayer , the outpouring of his simple , honest heart , and Richard heard it , wincing a little as Andy thus made confession for him of his own sins ; but he did not pray himself , though he was glad of Andy 's prayers , and placed great hopes upon them . 
God would hear Andy , and if he did not send Ethie back at once , he would surely keep her from harm . 
The next day Richard went back to Camden . 
Melinda Jones had suggested that possibly Ethie left a letter , or note , which would explain her absence , and Richard caught at it eagerly , wondering he had not thought of it before , and feeling very impatient to be off , even though he dreaded to meet his old friends , and be questioned as to the whereabouts of his wife . 
He did not know that the story of his desertion was already there , -- Mrs. Amsden having gone to town with her mite , which , added to the sale of the piano , Ethie 's protracted absence , Richard 's return to Olney at midnight , and Harry Clifford 's serious and mysterious manner , was enough to set the town in motion . 
Various opinions were expressed , and , what was very strange , so popular were both Richard and Ethelyn that everybody disliked blaming either , and so but few unkind remarks had as yet been made , and those by people who had been jealous or envious of Ethelyn 's high position . 
Thus they were not foes , but friends , who welcomed Richard back to Camden , watching him curiously , and wishing so much to ask where Mrs. Markham was . 
That she was not with him , was certain , for only Andy came , -- Andy , who held his head so high , and looked round so definatly , as he kept close to Richard 's side on the way to the hotel . 
To Richard it was far worse than the day Daisy died , for he had then the memory of her last loving words in his ear , and the feeling of her clinging kiss upon his lips , while now the memories of the lost one were only bitter and sad in the extreme . 
Richard asked , in a helpless , appealing way , as he sank into a chair and looked around the room . 
He had been very bold and strong in the cars and in the street ; but here , in the deserted room , where Ethie used to be , and where something said she would never be again , he was weak as a girl , and leaned wholly upon Andy , who seemed to feel how much was depending upon him , and so kept up a cheery aspect while he kindled a fresh fire and cleared the ashes from the hearth by blowing them off upon the oil-cloth ; then , as the warmth began to make itself felt and the cold to diminish , he answered Richard 's query . 
So , to the `` draw '' they went , -- the very one where Daisy 's ring was lying ; and Richard saw that first , knowing now for sure that Ethelyn had fled . 
`` It was Daisy 's , you know , '' he said to Andy , who , at his side , was not looking at the ring , but on beyond it , to the two letters , his own and Richard 's , both of which he seized , with a low cry , for he , too , was sure now of Ethie 's flight . 
Andy was stunned for a moment , and sat staring blankly at the motionless figure of his brother ; then , as the terrible calamity began to impress itself fully upon him , intense pity for Richard became uppermost in his mind , and stooping over the crushed man he laid his arm across his neck , and , tender as a sorrowing , loving mother , kissed and fondled the damp brown hair , and dropped great tears upon it , and murmured words of sympathy , incoherent at first , for the anguish choking his own utterance , but gradually gathering force and sound as his quivering lips kept trying to articulate , `` Dick , poor old Dick , dear old Dick , do n't keep so still and look so white and stony . 
Lay your head on me , so , '' and lifting up the bowed head , which offered no resistance , Andy laid it gently on his arm , and smoothing back the hair from the pallid forehead , went on : `` Now cry , old boy , cry with all your might ; '' and with his hand Andy brushed away the scalding tears which began to fall like rain from Richard 's eyes . 
Do n't hold up till you 've had it out , '' he kept repeating , while Richard wept until the fountain was dry and the tears refused to flow . 
Andy would hear nothing derogatory of Richard any more than of Ethelyn , and he answered promptly , `` But , Dick , Ethie was someto blame . 
Richard replied , in a maudlin kind of way , `` Yes , that 's a very proper course . 
Seeing how Richard continued to shiver , and how cold he was , he persuaded him to lie down upon the bed , and piling the blankets upon him , made such a fire as he said to himself `` would roast a common ox ; '' then , when Hal Clifford came to the door and knocked , he kept him out , with the word that `` Dick had been broke of his rest , and was tryin ' to make it up . '' 
Richard was growing ill , and talking so strangely withal , that Andy began to feel the necessity of having somebody there beside himself ; `` some of the wimmen folks , who knew what to do , for I 'm no better than a settin ' hen , '' he said . 
This note Melinda carried straight to Mrs. Markham , and as the result , four hours later both the mother and Melinda were on the road to Camden , where Melinda 's services were needed to stem the tide of wonder and gossip which had set in when it began to be known that Ethelyn was really gone , and Richard was lying sick in his room , tended only by Andy , who would admit no one , not even the doctor , when , urged by Harry Clifford , he came to offer his services . 
Richard did not have a fever , as was feared at first ; but for many days he kept his bed , and during that time his mother and Melinda stayed by him , nursing him most assiduously , but never once speaking to each other of Ethelyn . 
Both had read her letter , for Mrs. Markham never thought of withholding it from Melinda , who , knowing that she ought not to have seen it , wisely resolved to keep to herself the knowledge of its contents . 
So , when she was asked , as she was repeatedly , `` Why Mrs. Markham had gone away , '' she answered evasively , or not at all , and finding that nothing could be obtained from her , the people at last left her in quiet and turned to their own resources , which furnished various reasons for the desertion . 
They knew it p597-263 was a desertion now , and hearing how sick and broken Richard was , popular opinion was in his favor mostly , though many a kind and wistful thought went after the fair young wife , who had been a belle in their midst , and a general favorite too . 
Where was she now , and what was she doing , while the winter crept on into spring , and the March winds blew raw and chill against the windows of the chamber where Richard battled with the sickness which he finally overcame , so that by the third week of Ethie 's absence he was up again and able to go in quest of her , if so be she might be found and won to the love she never had returned . 
`` I hoped she might be here , and came up to see , '' Mrs. Van Buren concluded ; while Aunt Barbara steadied herself against the great book-case in the corner , and wondered if she were going out of her senses , or had she heard aright , and was it her sister Van Buren sitting there before her , and saying such dreadful things . 
As soon as possible she told all she had heard from Frank , and then went on with her invectives against the Markhams generally , and Richard in particular , and her endless surmises as to where Ethelyn had gone , and what was the final cause of her going . 
Black or blue , it was all the same to Mrs. Dr. Van Buren , whose feet seldom came in contact with anything heavier than silk or the softest of lamb 's wool ; and , had there been wanting other evidence of Mrs. Markham 's vulgarity , the stocking question would have settled the matter with her . 
she sighed , as she drew her seat to the fire , and asked what they ought to do . 
That lady was terribly incensed against the whole Markham race , for through them she had been touched on a tender point . 
Ethie 's desertion of her husband would not be wholly excused by the world ; there was odium attaching to such a step , however great the provocation , and the disgrace was what Mrs. Van Buren would feel most keenly . 
If they were , there were still the silver-skinned onious left ; and , as Mrs. Van Buren was one who thought a great deal of what she ate , she was anticipating her dinner with a keen relish , and wishing Barbara and Betty would hurry , when a buggy stopped before the door , and , with a start of disagreeable surprise , she saw Richard Markham coming through the gate , and up the walk to the front door . 
He was looking very pale and worn , for to the effects of his recent illness were added traces of his rapid , fatiguing journey , and he almost staggered as he came into the room . 
It was not in kind Aunt Barbara 's nature to feel resentment toward him then , and she went to him at once as she would have gone to Ethie , and , taking his hand in hers , said , softly -- `` My poor boy ! 
There was a look of anguish and disappointment in Richard 's eyes as he replied -- `` I thought -- I hoped I might find her here . '' 
It was three weeks now since Ethie 's flight , and her husband had shown himself in no hurry to seek her , she reasoned ; but Richard 's reply , `` I was away a week before I knew it , and I have been very sick since then , '' mollified her somewhat , though she sat back in her chair very stiff and very straight , eyeing him askance , and longing to pounce upon him and tell him what she thought . 
First , however , she must have her dinner . 
The tea would be spoiled if they waited longer ; and when Aunt Barbara began to question Richard , she suggested that they wait till after dinner , when they would all be fresher and stronger . 
So dinner was brought in , and Richard , as he took his seat at the nicely-laid table , where everything was served with so much care , didthink of the difference between Ethie 's early surroundings and those to which he had introduced her when he took her to his mother 's house . 
He was beginning to think of these things now ; Ethie 's letter had opened his eyes somewhat , and Mrs. Dr. Van Buren would open them more before she let him go . 
She was greatly refreshed with her dinner . 
On the whole , Mrs. Van Buren was satisfied , and able to cope with a dozen men as crushed , and sore , and despondent as Richard seemed . 
She had resumed her seat by the fire , sitting where she could look the culprit directly in the face ; while good Aunt Barbara occupied the middle position , and , with her fat , soft hands shaking terribly , tried to pick up the stitches Tabby had pulled out . 
Tabby , too , had had her chicken wing out in the wood-shed , and , knowing nothing of Ethie 's grievances , had mounted into Richard 's lap , where she lay , slowly blinking and occasionally purring a little , as Richard now and then passed his hand over her soft fur . 
It was Mrs. Dr. Van Buren who asked this question , her voice betokening that nothing which Richard could offer as an excuse would be received . 
Richard would far rather Mrs. Dr. Van Buren had been in Boston , than there in Chicopee , staring so coolly at him ; but as her being there was something he could not help , he accepted it as a part of the train of calamities closing so fast about him , and answered , respectfully -- `` It was no one thing which made her go , but the culmination of many . 
But Aunt Barbara had either more conscience or a better memory , and in a manner half-apologetic for her interference , she said : `` Yes , Sophie , Richard is right . 
Ethie had a temper , -- at least she was very decided . 
Do n't you remember when she broke the cut-glass fruit-dish , because she could not have any more pineapple ? '' 
She was too sensitive , and had too nice a perception of what was proper , to be thrown among -- '' heathen , she was going to add , but something in Aunt Barbara 's blue ` eyes kept her in check , and so she abruptly turned to Richard and asked , `` Did she leave no message , no reason why she went ? '' 
Richard could have boasted his Markhamblood had he chosen , and the white heats to which that was capable of being roused ; but he was too utterly broken to feel more than a passing flash of resentment for anything which had yet been said , and after a moment 's thought , during which he was considering the propriety of showing Mrs. Van Buren what Ethie had written of Frank , he held the letter to her , saying , `` She left this . 
With a strange obtuseness peculiar to some people who have seen their dearest plans come to naught , she failed to ascribe the trouble to herself , but charged it all to Richard . 
Matters had been worse than she supposed , -- Ethie more unhappy , and knowing her as she did , she was not surprised that at the last she ran away ; but she did not say so , -- she merely sat grieved and helpless , while her sister took up the cudgels in Ethelyn 's defence , and , attacking Richard at every point , left him no quarter at all . 
She did not pretend that Ethie was faultless or perfect , she said , but surely , if mortal ever had just provocation for leaving her husband , she had . 
`` Her marriage was a great mistake , '' she said ; `` and I must say , Mr. Markham , that you did very wrong to take her where you did without a word of preparation . 
`` But I did not know , '' Richard said ; `` that is , I had never thought much of the things which tried Ethie . 
Richard exclaimed , with more warmth than he had before evinced . 
`` My mother was born East , '' Richard suggested , and Mrs. Van Buren continued -- `` Certainly ; but that does not help the matter . 
She was bent upon making Richard uncomfortable , and could at the moment think of no better way of doing it than con trasting his mother 's `` ways '' with those of her neighbors . 
Occasionally Aunt Barbara put her feeble oar into the surging tide , hoping to check , even if she could not subdue the angry waters ; but she might as well have kept silent , save that Richard understood and appreciated her efforts to spare him as much as possible . 
Mrs. Van Buren was not to be stopped , and at last , when she had pretty fully set before Richard his own and his mother 's delinquencies , she turned fiercely on her sister , demanding if she had not said `` so and so '' with regard to Ethie 's home in the West . 
Mrs. Markham is queer , -- the queerest woman , if I must say it , that I ever saw , though I guess there 's a good many like her up in Vermont , where she was raised , and if the truth was known , right here in Chicopee , too ; and I would n't wonder if there were some queer ones in Boston . 
There were quite as nice people there as anywhere , and she believed Mrs. Markham meant to be kind to Ethie ; surely Richard did , only he did not understand her . 
It was very wrong to lock her up , and then it was wrong in Ethie to marry him , feeling as she did . 
Richard had borne a great deal from Mrs. Van Buren , and borne it patiently , too , as something which he deserved . 
He had heard his mother and her `` ways '' denounced as utterly repugnant to any person of decency , while James and John , under the head of `` other vulgar appendages to the husband , '' had had a share in the general sifting down , and through it all he had kept quiet , with only an occasional demur or explanation ; but when it came to Andy , the great , honest , true-hearted Andy , he could bear it no longer , and Bigelow blood succumbed to the fiery gleam in Richard 's eyes as he started to his feet , exclaiming -- `` Mrs. Van Buren , you must stop , for were you a hundred times a woman , I would not listen to one word of abuse against my brother Andy . 
Richard paused , panting for breath , while Mrs. Van Buren looked at him with entirely new sensations from what she had before experienced . 
Mrs. Van Buren could be generous if she tried ; and as this seemed a time for the trial , she did attempt to apologize , saying her zeal for Ethie had carried her too far ; that she hoped Richard would excuse what she had said of Andy , -- she had no intention of wounding him on that point . 
And Richard accepted the apology , but his face did not again assume the cowed , broken expression it had worn at first . 
Richard would do much to bring Ethie back , -- he would submit to any humiliation , and bear anything for himself , but he would never again listen quietly while his mother and family were abused . 
Mrs. Van Buren felt this intuitively ; and knowing that what she had said had made an impression , and would after a time be acted upon , perhaps , she changed her tactics , and became quite as conciliatory as Aunt Barbara herself , talking and consulting with Richard as to the best course to be pursued with regard to finding Ethie , and succeeding , in part , in removing from his face the expression it had put on when Andy was the subject of her maledictions . 
Richard had a great dread of meeting his uncle in his present trouble , and he was not quite sure whether he should go there or not . 
Richard hesitated a moment , and then asked , `` Does any one occupy Ethie 's old room ? 
This was too much for poor Aunt Barbara , and without any attempt at justification , except that her sister in her attack upon Richard had left her nothing to say , she cried quietly and sorrowfully , as she folded up her white apron and made other necessary preparations for the night . 
That she should be accused of not caring for Ethie , of not speaking for her , wounded her in a tender point ; and long after Mrs. Van Buren had gone to the front chamber , where she always slept , Aunt Barbara was on her knees by the rocking-chair , praying earnestly for Ethie , and then still kneeling there , with her face on the cushion , sobbing softly , `` God knows how much I love her . 
THE pink and white blossoms of the apple trees by the pump in Aunt Barbara 's back yard were dropping their snowy petals upon the clean , bright grass , and the frogs in the meadows were croaking their sad music , when Richard Markham came again to Chicopee . 
He had started for home the morning after his memorable interview with Mrs. Dr. Van Buren , and to Aunt Barbara had fallen the task of telling her troubles to the Colonel 's family , asking that the affair be kept as quiet as possible , inasmuch as Ethie might soon be found , and matters between her and Richard be made right . 
Ethelyn had not been heard from , and Richard could find no trace of her whatever . 
She had effectually covered her tracks , so that not even a clue to her whereabouts was found . 
No one had seen her , or any person like her , and the suspense and anxiety were becoming terrible , when there came to Andya letter in the dear , familiar handwriting . 
`` Andy , I want you to tell Richard that , in thinking over my married life , I see many places where I did very wrong , and tried him terribly . 
Richard made no comment , but , like Andy , he conned that letter over and over until he knew it by heart , especially the part referring to himself . 
She had cast a shadow upon his life , but she was very dear to him for all of that , and he would gladly have taken back the substance , had that been possible . 
This letter Richard carried to Aunt Barbara , whom he found sitting in her pleasant porch , with the May moonlight falling upon her face , and her eyes wearing the look of one who is constantly expecting something which never comes . 
They could surely find her now , Aunt Barbara said , and she and Richard talked long together about what he was going to do , for he was on his way then to the great city . 
It is my privilege to have her first , '' Aunt Barbara said , next morning , as she bade Richard good-by , and then began to watch and wait for tidings which never came . 
Richard could not find Ethelyn , or any trace of her , and after a protracted search of six weeks , he went back to his Iowa home , sick , worn out , and discouraged . 
Mrs. Van Buren could go far beyond her sister in abusing Richard , but when it came to a sacrifice of her own comfort and pleasure , she held back . 
It ai n't as bad as it has been , and I 've got some stuff here to kill it , though I think it smells worse than the rat himself , '' and Betty held her own nose as she pointed out to her mistress the saucer of chloride of lime which , at Mrs. Col. Markham 's suggestion , she had put in the sitting-room . 
She wrote to Richard the next day , of her unsuccessful search , and asked what they should do next . 
`` We can do nothing but wait and hope , '' Richard wrote in reply , but Aunt Barbara added to it , `` we can pray ; '' and so all through the autumn , when the soft , hazy days which Ethie had loved so well kept the lost one forever in mind , Aunt Barbara waited and hoped , and prayed and watched for Ethie 's coming home , feeling always a sensation of expectancy when the Western whistle sounded and the Western train went thundering through the town ; and when the hack came up from the depot and did not stop at her door , she said to herself , `` She would walk up , maybe , '' and then waiting again she would watch from her window and look far up the quiet street , where the leaves of crimson and gold were lying upon the walk . 
RICHARD could not stay in Camden , where everything reminded him so much of Ethelyn , and at his mother 's earnest solicitations he went back to Olney , taking with him all the better articles of furniture which Ethie had herself selected , and which converted the plain farm-house into quite a palace , as both Andy and his mother thought . 
Mrs. Dr. Van Buren 's lesson , though a very bitter one , was doing Richard good , especially as it was adroitly followed up by Melinda Jones , who , on the strength of her now being his sister-elect , took the liberty of saying to him some pretty plain things with regard to his former intercourse with Ethie . 
Mrs. Markham , senior , got on better with Melinda than she had with Ethelyn ; Melinda knew exactly how to manage her , and , indeed , how to manage the entire household , from Richard down to Andy , who , though extremely kind and attentive to her , never loved her as he did Ethelyn . 
A few of Melinda 's ways Mrs. Markham designated as high-flown , but one by one her prejudices gave way as Melinda gained upon her step by step , until at last Ethelyn would hardly have recognized the well-ordered household , so different from what she had known it . 
`` The boys '' no longer came to the table in their shirt-sleeves , for Melinda always had their coats in sight , just where it was handy to put them on ; and the trousers were slipped down over the boots while the boys ate , and the soft brown Markham hair always looked smooth and shining , and Mrs. Markham tidied herself a little before coming to the table , no matter how heavy her work , and never but once was she guilty of sitting down to her dinner in her pasteboard sun-bonnet , giving as an excuse that her `` hair was at sixes and sevens . '' 
She remembered seeing her mother do this fifty years before , and she had clung to the habit as one which must be right because they used to do so in Vermont . 
One hundred and fifty dollars the cape alone had cost , it was rumored , and when to this Richard added a dark , rich muff to match , others than Eunice looked enviously at Mrs. James , who , to all intents and purposes , was the same frank , outspoken person that she was when she wore a plain scarf around her neck , and rode to church in her father 's lumber-wagon instead of the handsome turn-out James had bought since his marriage . 
Nothing could spoil Melinda , and though she became quite the fashion in Olney , and was frequently invited to Camden to meet the éliteof the town , she was up just as early on Monday mornings as when she lived at home , and her young , strong arms saved Mrs. Markham more work than Eunice 's had done . 
She would not dip candles , she said , nor burn them either , except as a matter of convenience to carry around the house ; and so the tallows gave way to kerosene , and as Melinda liked a great deal of light , the house was sometimes illuminated so brilliantly that poor Mrs. Markham had either to shade her eyes with her hands , or turn her back to the lamp . 
She never thought of opposing Melinda ; that would have done no good ; and she succumbed with the rest to the will which was ruling them so effectually and so well . 
Some very plain talks Melinda had with Richard with regard to Ethelyn ; and Richard , when he saw how anxious James was to please his wife , even in little things which he had once thought of no consequence , regretted so much that his own course had not been different with Ethelyn . 
`` Poor , dear Ethie , '' he called her to himself , as he sat alone at night in the room where she used to be . 
At first , he had freely talked of her with his family . 
She would go to Chicopee first , they felt assured , and then Aunt Barbara would write , and Richard would start at once . 
How many castles he built of that second bringing her home , where Melinda made everything so pleasant , and where she could be happy for a little time , when they would go where she liked , -- it did not matter where . 
Richard was willing for anything , only he did want her to stay a little time at the farm-house , just to see how they had improved , and to learn that his mother could be kind if she tried . 
She meant to be so if Ethelyn ever came back , for she had said as much to him on the receipt of Ethie 's message , sent in Andy 's letter , and her tears had fallen fast as she confessed to not always having felt or acted right toward the young girl . 
no Ethie came , or tidings of her either , and Richard ceased to speak of her at last , and his face wore so sad a look whenever she was mentioned , that the family stopped talking of her ; or , if they spoke her name , it was as they spoke of Daisy , or of one that was dead . 
For a time Richard kept up a correspondence with Aunt Barbara ; but that , too , gradually ceased , and as his uncle , the old colonel , died in the spring , and the widow went to her friends in Philadelphia , he seemed to be cut off from p597-297 any connection with Chicopee , and but for the sad , harassing memory of what had been , he was to all intents and purposes the same grave , silent bachelor as of yore , following the bent of his own inclinations , coming and going as he liked , sought after by those who wished for an honest man to transact their business , and growing gradually more and more popular with the people of his own and the adjoining counties . 
THEY were to elect a new one in Iowa , and there were rumors afloat that Richard Markham would be the man chosen by his party . 
There had been similar rumors once before , but Mrs. Markham had regarded them as mythical , never dreaming that such an honor could be in store for her boy . 
Crowds of men came frequently to the farm-house and were closeted with Richard . 
Each in his own way , -- James and John , and Andy and Melinda , -- worked for Richard , who was frequently absent from home for several days , sometimes taking the stump himself , but oftener remaining quiet while others presented his cause . 
Then , with a face as pale as ashes , Richard made his `` great speech '' in Camden Court-house , asking that the whole matter be dropped at once , and saying that he would far rather live a life of obscurity than have the name , more dear to him than the names of the dead , bandied about from lip to lip and made the subject for newspaper paragraphs . 
They knew Richard in Camden , and they knew Ethelyn , too , and liked both so well , that the result of that speech was to increase Richard 's popularity tenfold , and to carry in his favor the entire town . 
The day of election was a most exciting one , especially in Olney , where Richard had lived from boyhood . 
It was something for a little town like this to furnish the Governor , the Olneyites thought ; and though , for party 's sake , there were some opponents , the majority went for Richard ; and Tim Jones showed his zeal by drinking with so many , that at night he stopped at the farm-house , insisting that he had reached home , and should stay there , `` for all of Melind , '' and hurrahing so loud for `` Richud -- Mark-um -- Square , '' that he woke up the little blue-eyed boy which for six weeks had been the pride , and pet , and darling of the household . 
Others than Andy were thinking of Ethelyn that day , for not the faintest echo of a huzza reached Richard 's ear that did not bring with it regretful thoughts of her . 
And when at last success was certain , and , flushed with triumph , he stood receiving the congratulations of his friends , and the Olney bell was ringing in honor of the new Governor , and bonfires were lighted in the streets , there was not a throb of his heart which did not go out after the lost one , with a yearning desire to bring her back , and , by giving her the highest position in the State , atone in part for all which had been wrong . 
But Ethie was very , very far away , -- further than he dreamed , -- and strain ear and eye as she might , she could not see the lurid blaze which lit up the prairie till the tall grass grew red in the ruddy glow , or hear the deafening shouts which rent the sky for Governor Markham , elected by an overwhelming majority . 
Oh , how lonely Richard felt , even in the first moments of his success ! 
These had been made in Camden , a thing which gave mortal offence to Miss Henry , the Olney dressmaker , who wondered `` what Melinda Jones was that she should put on such airs , a nd try to imitate Mrs. Richard Markham . '' 
Richard , and James , and Melinda , and baby , and Eunice Plympton as baby 's nurse , all went to Des Moines , and left the house so lonely that Andy lay flat upon the floor and cried , and his mother 's face wore the look of one who had just returned from burying her dead . 
It was something , however , to be the mother and brother of a governor , and a comfort to get letters from the absent ones , to hear of Richard 's immense popularity , and the very graceful manner in which Melinda dischaged her duties . 
Tim hardly knew whether himself , or Richard , or Melinda , was the Governor . 
Richard , too , remembered Ethelyn , and never did Melinda stand at his side in any gay saloon that he did not see in her place a brown-eyed , brown-haired woman , who would have moved a very queen among the people . 
Ethie did not come , and the term of Richard 's governorship glided away , and he declined a re-election , and went back to Olney , looking ten years older than when he left it , with an habitual expression of sadness on his face , which even strangers noticed , wondering what was the heart-trouble which was ageing him so fast , and turning his brown hair gray . 
There was comfort in Andy 's strong assurance , and Richard always felt better after a talk with his hopeful brother . 
Perhaps she would come back , and if so he must have a place worthy of her , he said , one day , to Melinda , who seized the opportunity to unfold a plan she had long been meditating . 
She had known sorrow , too ; for in the cemetery at Des Moines she had left her little blue-eyed baby boy when only six months old , and her heart had ached to its very core , until there came another child , a little girl , whom they had christened `` Ethelyn Grant , '' and who , on this account , was quite as dear to Richard as to either of its parents . 
Richard was happier with that little brown-haired girl than with any one else , and when Melinda suggested they should go together somewhere , he assented readily , mentioning Davenportas a place where Ethelyn had many times said she would like to live . 
Now , as ever , Melinda 's was the active , ruling voice , and almost before Richard knew it , he was in Davenport and bargaining for a vacant lot which overlooked the river and the country beyond . 
Davenport suited them all , and by September Melinda , who had spent the summer with her mother , was located at a hotel and making herself very useful to Richard with her suggestions with regard to the palatial mansion he was building . 
There was a suite of rooms called Ethelyn 's , and to the arrangement and adorning of these Richard gave his whole attention , sparing nothing which could make them beautiful and attractive , and lavishing so much expense upon them that strangers came to inspect and comment upon them , wondering why he took so much pains , and guessing , as people will , that he was contemplating a second marriage as soon as a divorce could be obtained from his runaway wife . 
The house was finished at last , and Richard took possession , installing Melinda as house-keeper , and feeling how happy he should be if only Ethie were there . 
Somehow he expected her now . 
Since the night Richard spent there , no one had slept in the room , and no one should sleep there , either , till Ethie came back again . 
Then her eye moved on to where the marriage of Ethelyn Adelaide with Richard Markham , of Iowa , had been recorded ; and then she turned to the list of `` Deaths , '' wondering if , unseen by her , Ethie 's name had been added to the list . 
was Ethelyn 's next query ; and Richard would have read much hope for him in the eagerness of the eyes , which waited for Aunt Barbara 's answer , and which dropped so shyly upon the carpet when Aunt Barbara said , `` Alone , child ? 
No ; hedid all he could , -- Richard did , -- but we could get no clue . '' 
Ethelyn could not tell her story until she had been made easy on several important points , and smoothing the folds of Aunt Barbara 's dress , and still looking beseechingly into her face , she said , `` And Richard hunted , too . 
Richard did not deserve it . '' 
Aunt Barbara did not know , and she kept smoothing the bowed head until it was lifted up again , and the tears were dried in Ethie 's eyes where there was not the same hopeful expression there had been at first when she heard of Richard 's hunting for her . 
I do not remember now just what was in it , but I know it was very concise and plain , and literal ; for I was angry when I wrote it , and would not spare Richard a bit . 
I mean Richard 's mother , auntie . 
`` Aunt Barbara , I did not love Richard , and that was my great mistake . 
I do not see now how I ever could have loved Frank ; but I did , or thought I did , and was constantly contrasting Richard with him and making myself more miserable . 
If I had loved Richard things would have been so much easier to bear . 
I forgot everything but myself and my trouble , and so I went away , going first to Milford , so as to mislead Richard , and then turning straight back to New York . 
Till then I would do well to return to Iowa and make it up with Richard . 
That was what she said , and it made me very angry , and I resolved to leave her the next day ; but I was sick in the morning , and remained sick for several weeks , so that I could not leave her house . 
`` She nursed me carefully and tried to be kind , but I could see that my being there was a great annoyance to her . 
Once she suggested writing to Richard , but I begged her not to do it , and she did not . 
Her husband had an aunt , -- a rich , eccentric old lady , -- who came sometimes to see me , and seemed interested in me . 
Aunt Barbara asked , and Ethelyn replied , `` Nothing from Richard , and nothing direct from you . 
Richard 's name I never saw ; neither did Abby know anything about him . 
I told her my story , too , -- told her the whole as it was ; and she made me promise to come back , to you at least , if not to Richard . 
Involuntarily Ethie 's hand rested itself on the chair where Richard had sat , and Ethie 's face crimsoned when Aunt Barbara asked -- `` Do you love Richard now ? '' 
Just as she used to do when Ethie was a young lady at home , Betty had carried her pan of coals and kindlings into the chamber where Ethie was lying , and kneeling on the hearth had made the brightest of fires , while Ethie , with half closed lids , watched her dreamily , thinking how nice it was to be cared for again , and conscious only of a vague feeling of delicious rest and quiet , which grew almost into positive happiness as she counted the days it would take for Aunt Barbara 's letter to go to Iowa and for Richard to answer it in person , as he surely would do if all which Aunt Barbara had said was true . 
It seemed a dream now , -- a far-off , unhappy dream , -- which she would fain forget just as she wanted Richard to forget her foibles and give her another chance . 
She had bidden Aunt Barbara write to say that she was there , and so after the tempting breakfast , which had been served in her room , and which she had eaten sitting up in bed , because Betty insisted that it should be so , -- and she was glad to be petted and humored and made into a comfortable invalid , -- Aunt Barbara brought her writing materials into the room , and bidding Eithie lie still and rest herself , began the letter to Richard . 
In fact , ever since Richard became Governor , she had blamed her niece for running away from the honor which might have been hers . 
But you are changed ; and I am sure Richard would think so too . 
I wo n't stay long in anybody 's way ; and if -- if he likes , Richard -- can -- get -- that -- divorce -- as soon as he pleases . '' 
In all the five long years of her absence the possibility that Richard would seek to separate himself from her had never crossed her mind . 
She had looked upon his love for her as something too strong to be shaken , -- as the great rock in whose shadow she could rest whenever she so desired . 
At first , when the tide of angry passions was raging at her heart , she had said she never should desire it , that her strength was sufficient to stand alone against the world ; but as the weary weeks and months crept on , and her anger had time to cool , and she had learned better to know the meaning of `` standing alone in the world , '' and thoughts of Richard 's many acts of love and kindness kept recurring to her mind , she had come gradually to see that the one object in the future to which she was looking forward was to return to Aunt Barbara and a possible reconciliation with her husband . 
But Ethie 's path back to peace and quiet was not to be free from thorns , and for a few minutes she writhed in pain , as she thought how possible , and even probable , it was that Richard should seek to be free from one who had troubled him so much . 
Life looked very dreary to Ethelyn that moment , -- drearier than it ever had before , -- but she was too proud to betray her real feelings to her aunt , who , touched by the look of anguish on her niece 's face , began to change her tactics , and say how glad she was to have her back under any circumstances , and she presumed Richard would be too . 
She knew he would , in fact ; and if she were Ethie , she should write to him at once , apprising him of her return , but not making too many concessions . 
She might as well have talked to the winds , for all that Ethie heard or cared . 
She was thinking of Richard , and the possibility that she might not be welcome to him now . 
If so , nothing could tempt her to intrude herself upon him . 
At all events , she would not make the first advances . 
She would let Richard find out that she was there through some other source than Aunt Barbara , who should not now write the letter . 
This was Ethie 's decision , from which she could not be moved ; and when , next day , Mrs. Van Buren went back to Boston with the check for $ 1,000 , which Aunt Barbara had given her , she was pledged not to communicate with Richard Markham in any way , while Aunt Barbara was held to the same promise . 
And Ethie caught eagerly at the proposition , accepting it on one condition , -- she would not go there as Mrs. Markham , where the name might be recognized . 
She had been Miss Bigelow abroad , she would be Miss Bigelow again ; and so Aunt Barbara yielded , mentally asking pardon for the deception to which she felt she was a party ; and when , two weeks after , the p597-325 clerk at Clifton water-cure looked over his list to see what rooms were engaged , and to whom , he found `` Miss Adelaide Bigelow , of Mass. , '' put down for No. 101 , while `` Governor Markham , of Iowa , '' was down for No. 102 . 
With thoughts of Chicopee came also thoughts of Richard , and Ethie 's eyes were moist with tears as she looked toward the setting sun , and wondered if he ever thought of her now , or had he forgotten her , and was the story true of his seeking for a divorce ? 
That rumor had troubled Ethie greatly , and was the reason why she did not improve as the physician hoped she would when she first came to Clifton . 
Sitting down upon the bridge across the creek , she bowed her head in her hands , and went over again with all the dreadful past , blaming herself now more than she did Richard , and wishing that much could be undone of all that had transpired to make her what she was ; and while she sat there the Western train appeared in view , and mechanically rising to her feet , Ethie turned her steps back toward the Cure , standing aside to let the long train go by , and feeling , when it passed her , a strange , sudden throb , as if it were fraught with more than ordinary interest to her . 
Usually , that Western train , the distant roll of whose wheels , and the echo of whose scream , quickened so many hearts waiting for news from home , had no special interest for her . 
It never brought her a letter . 
Her name was never called in the exciting distribution which took place in the parlor , or on the long piazza , after the eight o'clock mail arrived , and so she seldom heeded it ; but to-night there was a difference , and she watched the long line curiously until it passed the corner by the old brown farm-house and disappeared from view . 
It had left the station long ere she reached the Cure , for she had walked slowly , and lights were shining from the different rooms , and there was a sound of singing in the parlor , and the party of croquet players had come up from the lawn , and ladies were hurrying toward the bath-room , when she came in and climbed p597-332 the three flights of stairs which led to the fourth floor . 
Who he was Ethelyn did not know or care , though twice she woke from a feverish sleep with the impression that she had heard Richard speaking to her ; but it was only Jim , the bath man , talking in the next room , and she laid her throbbing head again upon her pillow , while her new neighbor dreamed in turn of her , and woke with the strange fancy that she was near him . 
There was a paper for Mrs. Morehouse , and Mrs. Stone , and Mrs Wilson , and Mrs. Turner , while Mr. Danforth had half a dozen or less , and then Perry paused a moment over a new name , -- one which had never before been called in the parlor at Clifton : `` Hon. Richard Markham . '' 
`` She needed perfect quiet , but must not be left alone , '' he said , and so all that night Richard , who was very wakeful , watched the light shining out into the hall from the room next to his own , and heard occasionally a murmur of low voices as the nurse put some question to Ethie , who answered always in whispers , while her eyes turned furtively toward No. 102 , as if fearful that its occupant would hear and know how near she was . 
How could they , when every sound from No. 102 , every footfall on the floor , every tone of Richard 's voice speaking to servants or physician quickened the rapid beats and sent the hot blood throbbing fiercely through the temple veins and down the neck ? 
At Clifton they are accustomed to every phase of nervousness , from spasms at the creaking of a board to the stumbling up stairs of the fireman in the early winter morning , and once when Ethie shuddered and turned her head aside at the sound of Richard 's step , the attendant said to the physician -- `` It 's the gentleman 's boots , I think , which make her nervous . '' 
There was a deprecating gesture on Ethie 's part , but it passed unnoticed , and when next the doctor went to visit Richard he said , in a half-apologetic way , that the young lady in the next room was suffering from a violent headache , which was aggravated by every sound , even the squeak of a boot , -- would Gov. Markham greatly object to wearing slippers for a while ? 
Gov. Markham would do anything in his power for the young lady , and he asked some questions concerning her . 
Had he annoyed her much ? 
Was she very ill ? 
And what was her name ? 
Andy 's faith in her return was as strong as ever , but Richard 's had all died out . 
The idea of being cared for by him , even if he did not know who she was , very soothing and pleasant , and she fell into a quiet sleep , which lasted several hours , while Richard , on the other side of the wall , scarcely moved , so fearful was he of worrying the young lady . 
It was something to have a Governor of Richard 's reputation in the house , and the guests made the most of it , wishing he would join them in the parlor or on the piazza , and regretting that he stayed so constantly in his room . 
Miss Owens ' voice was loud and clear , and Ethie heard it distinctly as the young lady talked and laughed with Richard , and the hot blood coursed rapidly through her veins , and the first genuine pangs of jealousy she had ever felt crept into her heart as she guessed what might possibly be in Miss Owens ' mind . 
Many times she resolved to make herself known to him ; but uncertainty as to how she might be received , and the remembrance of what Mrs. Van Buren had said with regard to the divorce , held her back ; and so , with only a thin partition between them , and within sound of each other 's footsteps , the husband and wife , so long estranged from each other , lived on , day after day , Richard spending the most of his time in his room , and Ethelyn managing so adroitly when she came in and when she went out , that she never saw so much as his shadow upon the floor , and did not know whether he was greatly changed or not . 
RICHARD had been sick for a week or more . 
That Richard should be sick so near to her , his wife , -- that other hands than hers should tend his pillow and minister to his wants , -- did not seem right ; and when she recalled the love and tender care which had been so manifest the time when he came home from Washington and found her so ill , the wish grew strong within her to do something for him . 
She dared not go openly to him , until assured that she was wanted ; and so there was nothing left but to imitate Miss Owens and adorn his room with flowers . 
Surely she had a right to do so much , and still her cheek crimsoned like some young girl 's as she gathered the choicest flowers the little town afforded , and arranging them into a most tasteful bouquet , sent them in to Richard , vaguely hoping that at least in the cluster of double pinks which had been Richard 's favorite , there might be hidden some mesmeric power or psychological influence which should speak to the sick man of the wayward Ethie who had troubled him so much . 
Richard was sitting up in bed when Mary brought the bouquet , saying `` Miss Bigelow sent it , thinking it might cheer him a bit . 
Richard took it in his hand , and an exclamation of delight escaped him as he saw and smelled the fragrant pinks , whose perfume carried him first to Olney and Andy 's weedy beds in the front yard , and then to Chicopee , where , in Aunt Barbara 's pretty garden , a large plat of them had been growing when he went after his bride . 
The watchman only came into the hall once an hour or thereabouts , and while Richard slept it would be comparatively easy for her to steal into his room . 
Fortune seemed to favor her , for when at nine the doctor , as usual , came up to pay his round of visits , she heard him say , `` I will leave you something which never fails to make one sleep , '' and after two hours had passed she knew by the regular breathing which , standing on the threshold of her room , she could distinctly hear , that Richard was sleeping soundly . 
It would be an hour before he came again , and now , if ever , was her time . 
There was a great throb of fear at her heart , a choking sensation in her throat , a shrinking back from what might probably be the result of that midnight visit ; and then , nerving herself for the effort , she stepped out into the hall and listened . 
Everything was quiet , and every room was darkened , save by the moon , which at its full was pouring a flood of light through the southern window at the end of the hall , and seemed to beckon her on . 
She was standing now at Richard 's door , and she made no noise as she stepped cautiously across the threshold and stood within the chamber . 
The window faced the east , and the inside blinds were opened , while the moonlight lay upon the floor in a great sheet of silver , and showed her plainly the form and features of the sick man upon the bed . 
She knew he was asleep , and with a beating heart she drew near to him , and stood for a moment looking upon the face she had not seen since that wintry morning five years before , when , in the dim twilight , it had bent over her , as if the lips would fain have asked forgiveness for the angry words and deeds of the previous night . 
The face was pale now , and thin , and the soft , brown hair was streaked with gray , making Richard look older than he was . 
`` Poor Richard , '' she whispered , softly , and kneeling by the bedside she laid her hot cheek as near as she dared to the white , wasted hand resting outside the counterpane . 
She did not think what the result of waking him might be . 
She did not especially care . 
She was his wife , let what would happen , -- his crring , but repentant Ethie . 
She had a right to be there with him , and so at last she took his hand between her own , and caressed it tenderly . 
Then Richard moved , and moaning in his sleep seemed to have a vague consciousness that some one was with him ; but the slumber into which he had fallen was too deep to be easily broken . 
Something he murmured about the medicine , and Ethie 's hand held it to his lips , and Ethie 's arm was passed beneath his pillow as she lifted up his head while he swallowed it . 
The watchman had stopped at Richard 's door to listen , and Ethie had experienced a spasm of terror at the possibility of being discovered ; but with the receding footsteps her fears left her , and she waited a half hour longer , hoping that he might waken and recognize her . 
But Richard did not waken , and at last , with a noiseless step , she glided back to her chamber . 
She had decided to write to her husband and take the consequences , and all the next morning her door was locked while she wrote to Richard a long , humble letter , in which all the blame was taken upon herself , inasmuch as she had made the great mistake of marrying without love . 
`` But I do love you now , Richard , '' she said ; `` love you truly , too , else I should never be writing this to you , and asking you to take me back and let me try to make you happy . '' 
It was a good deal for Ethie to confess that she had been so much in fault ; but she did it honestly , and when the letter was finished she felt as if all that had been wrong and bitter in the past was swept away , and a new era in her life had begun . 
She would wait till night , she said , -- wait till all was again quiet in the hall and in the sick-room , and when the boy came around with the mail , as he was sure to do , she would hand her letter to him , and bid him leave it in Governor Markham 's room . 
The rest she could not picture to herself ; but she waited impatiently for the long August day to draw to its close , and joined the guests in the parlor by way of passing the time , and appeared so bright and gay that those who had thought her proud , and cold , and reticent , wondered at the brightness of her face and the glad , eager expression of her eyes . 
She p597-345 was pretty , after all , they thought , and even Miss Owens , from New York , tried to be very gracious , and spoke to her of Governor Markham , whose room adjoined hers , and asked if she had seen him . 
She did not pretend that she knew him herself , as she lived some distance from Davenport ; but she had heard a great deal about him and his handsome house ; and Anne , her daughter , who visited in Davenport , had been all over it after it was finished . 
She was a shameless creature , who eight or ten years before eloped with a man a great deal younger than herself . 
She was very beautiful , people said , and very fascinating , and the Governor worshipped the ground she trod upon . 
He took her going off very hard at first , and for years scarcely held up his head . 
She had never heard before that she was suspected of having had an associated in her flight , and her cheeks crimsoned at the idea , while she wondered if Richard had ever thought that of her . 
He had not at first , she knew , else he had never sought for her so zealously as Aunt Barbara had intimated ; but latterly , as he heard no tidings from her , he might have surmised something of the kind , and that was the secret of the divorce . 
`` O , Richard ! 
Richard ! '' 
Richard is not at home , and there is no chance for my being recognized . '' 
She must go in and see the place where Richard lived , and so , at last , she gave a pull to the bell which reverberated through the entire house , and brought Hannah , the housemaid , to see who was there . 
That there was once a Mrs. Markham , who , for beauty , and style , and grandeur , was far superior to Mrs. James , the present mistress of the establishment , she had heard vague rumors ; and only that morning , when dusting Richard 's room , she had stopped her work a moment to admire the handsome picture which Richard had had painted , from a daguerreotype of Ethie , taken when she was only seventeen . 
She was canning fruit when Hannah came with the message that some of the Governor 's kin had come from the East ; and remembering to have heard that Richard once had an uncle somewhere in Massachusetts , she had no doubt that this was a daughter of the old gentleman and a cousin of Richard 's , especially as Hannah described the stranger as young and tolerably good-looking . 
`` She looks like the Markhams , or like somebody I 've seen , '' she said , never dreaming of finding the familiar resemblance to `` somebody she had seen '' in the picture hanging in Richard 's room . 
What she would have done had she known who the stranger was is doubtful . 
Fortunately she did not know ; but being hospitably inclined , and anxious to show the Governor 's Eastern relatives how grand and nice they were , she broiled the tender lamb , and made the fragrant coffee , and laid the table in the cozy breakfast-room , and put on the little silver set , and conducting her visitor out to dinner , helped her herself , and then left the room , telling Ethelyn to ring if she wanted anything , as Hannah was within hearing . 
Bewildered and puzzled with regard to her own identity , Ethie sat down at Richard 's table , in Richard 's house , and partook of Richard 's food , with a strange feeling of quiet , and a constantly increasing sensation of numbness and bewilderment . 
Access to the house had been easier than she fancied ; but she could not help feeling that shehad no right to be there , no claim on Richard 's hospitality . 
Certainly she had none , if what she had heard at Clifton were true . 
There was some doubt creeping into her mind , though why Richard should wish to build so large and so fine a house just for himself she could not understand . 
She never guessed how every part of that dwelling had been planned with a direct reference to her and her tastes ; that not a curtain , or a carpet , or a picture had been purchased without Melinda 's having said she believed Ethie would approve it . 
Every stone , and plank , and tack , and nail had in it a thought of the Ethie whose coming back had been speculated upon and planned in so many different ways , but never in this way , -- never just as it had finally occurred , with Richard gone , and no one there to welcome her , save the servants in the kitchen , who , while she ate her solitary dinner , feeling more desolate and wretched than she had ever before felt in her life , wondered who she was , and how far they ought to go with their attentions and civilities . 
They took her for what she professed to be , -- a Markham , and a near connection of the Governor ; and as that stamped her somebody , they were inclined to be very civil , feeling sure that Mrs. James would heartily approve their course . 
Richard must have bought it back ; for hersake , too , or rather for the sake of what she once was to him , not what she was now . 
The faintest tone of that instrument would have maddened her , and she turned away from it with a shudder , while the talkative Mrs. Dobson continued , `` It 's an old piano , I believe , that belonged to the first Mrs. Markham . 
There 's to be a new one bought for the other Mrs. Markham , I heard them say . '' 
The `` first Mrs. Markham , '' that was herself , while the `` other Mrs. Markham , '' meant , of course , her rival , -- the bride about whom she had heard at Clifton . 
She did not think of Melinda as being a part of that household , `` and the other Mrs. Markham , '' for whom the new piano was to be purchased , -- she thought of nothing but herself , and her own blighted hopes . 
Mrs. Dobson had left her glasses in the kitchen , so she did not notice the white face , so startling in its expression , as her visitor followed on up the broad staircase into the spacious hall above , and on still further , till they came to the door of Richard 's room , which Hannah had left open . 
But Mrs. Dobson led her on until she stood in the centre of Richard 's room , surrounded by the unmistakable paraphernalia of a man , with so many things around her to remind her of the past . 
It was kind in Richard to keep and bring them here , where everything was so much more elegant , -- kind , too , in him to redeem her piano . 
It showed that for a time , at least , he had remembered her ; but , alas ! 
he had forgotten her now , when she wanted his love so much . 
There were great blurring tears in her eyes , and she could not distinctly see the picture on the wall , which Mrs. Dobson said was the first Mrs. Markham , asking if she was not a beauty . 
`` Rather pretty , yes , '' Ethie said , making a great effort to speak naturally , and adding after a moment , `` I suppose it will be taken down when the other Mrs. Markham comes . '' 
In Mrs. Dobson 's mind the other Mrs. Markham only meant Melinda , and she replied -- `` Why should it ? 
She knew the other lady and liked her , too . '' 
`` She knew me ? 
Ethie asked herself , remembering that the name she had heard at Clifton was a strange one to her . 
`` This , now , is the very handsomest part of the whole house , '' Mrs. Dobson said , throwing open a door which led from Richard 's room into a suite of apartments which , to Ethie 's bewildered gaze , seemed more like fairy-land than anything real she had ever seen . 
Then , as things became more real , and great throbs of heat and pain went tearing through her temples , she remembered that she was in Richard 's house , up in the room which Mrs. Dobson had termed the bridal chamber , the apartments which had been probably fitted up for Richard 's bride , whoever she might be . 
`` I never counted on this , '' she whispered , as she paced up and down the range of rooms , from the little parlor or boudoir to the dressing-room beyond the bedroom , and the little conservatory at the side where the choicest of plants were in blossom , and where the dampness was so cool to her burning brow . 
It did not strike her as strange that Richard should have thought of all this , nor did she wonder whose taste had aided him in making such a home . 
She did not wonder at anything except at herself , who had missed so much and fallen into such depths of woe . 
`` Oh , Richard ! '' 
she sighed , as she went back into the bridal chamber . 
She was standing near the window , taking in the effect of her surroundings , from the white ground carpet covered with brilliant bouquets , to the unrumpled , snowy bed which looked so diliciously cool and inviting , and seemed beckoning the poor , tired woman to its embrace . 
`` She is married , it would seem , '' she said to Hannah , and then , as Richard 's name dropped from Ethelyn 's lips , she looked curiously at the face so ghastly white , save where spots of crimson colored the cheeks , and at the mass of hair which Ethie had pushed up and off from the forehead it seemed to oppress with its weight . 
`` Go bring me some ice-water from the cellar , '' Mrs. Dobson said to Hannah , who hurried away on the errand , while the housekeeper , left to herself , bent nearer to Ethelyn and closely scrutinized her face ; then stepping to Richard 's room , she examined the picture on the wall , and came to a conclusion as to whothe strange woman was . 
`` Bring some of Mrs. Markham 's night-clothes and ask me no questions , '' she said to the astonished girl , who silently obeyed her , and then assisted while Ethelyn was arrayed in Melinda 's night-gown and made more comfortable and easy than she could be in her own tight-fitting dress . 
Mrs. James was not contemplating a return to Davenport for three or four weeks ; indeed , ever since the letter received from Clifton with regard to Richard 's sickness , she had been seriously meditating a flying visit to the invalid , who she knew would be glad to see her . 
It must be very desolate for him there alone , she said ; and then her thoughts went after the wanderer whom they had long since ceased to talk about , much less to expect back again . 
She went there herself , and I found her in the bed in that room where nobody ever slept , -- the bride 's room , I call it , you know . '' 
Richard had heard of Miss Bigelow 's sudden departure , and had been surprised to find how much he missed the light footstep and the rustling sound which had come from No. 101 . 
There was a telegram for Richard , who took it with trembling hands and read it with a blur before his eyes and something at his heart like a blow , but which was born of a sudden hope that , after many days and months and years of waiting , God had deigned to be merciful . 
ARRIVED at Davenport , and so near his home that he could discern its roofs and chimneys , the hope which had kept Richard up all through his rapid journey began to give way , and he hardly knew what he expected to find , as he went up the steps to his house and rang the door-bell . 
Arrived there , Andy fell to capering across the floor , while Richard looked on , puzzled to decide whether his weak brother had gone wholly daft or not . 
`` Ethelyn , '' came in a whisper from Richard 's lips , and , rather crestfallen , the simple Andy said , `` Somebody told you , I know ; but you are right . 
The question was superfluous , for Richard was half way up the stairs , followed close by Andy , who went with him to the door of Ethie 's room , and then stood back , thinking it best for Richard to go in alone . 
She knew it was Richard who came in , for she had heard his voice in the hall , and greeting him quietly arose and left the room , whispering , `` If she wakes , do n't startle her . 
Then she went out , and Richard was alone with the wife he had not seen for more than five weary years . 
The lips and forehead were very white , but the rest of the face was purple with fever , and as that gave the cheeks a fuller , rounder look , she did not at first seem greatly changed , but looked much as she did the first time he came from Washington and found her so low . 
The long hair which Andy would not have confined in a cap was pushed back from her brow , and lay in tangled masses upon the pillow , while her hands were folded one within the other and rested outside the covering . 
And Richard touched her hands first , -- the little , soft , white hands he used to think so pretty , and which he now kissed so softly as he knelt by the bedside and tried to look closely into Ethie 's face . 
She was waking , and Richard drew back a step or two , while the bright , restless eyes moved round the room as if in quest of some one . 
`` It 's very dark , '' she said , and turning one of the shutters Richard came back and stood just where the light would fall upon his face as it did on hers . 
He saw now how changed she was ; but she was none the less dear to him for that , and he spoke to her very tenderly -- `` Ethie , darling , do n't you know me ? 
I am Richard , your husband , and I am so glad to get you back . '' 
There did seem to be a moment 's consciousness , for there crept into the eyes a startled , anxious look as they scanned Richard 's face ; then the lip quivered again , and Ethie said , pleadingly -- `` Do n't send me away . 
Then , unmindful of consequences , Richard gathered her in his arms and held her there an instant in a passionate embrace , which left her pale and panting , but seemed to reassure her , for when he would have laid her back upon the pillow , she said to him , `` No , not there , -- on your arm , -- so . 
Yes , that 's nice , '' and an expression of intense satisfaction stole into her face as she nestled her head close to Richard 's bosom , and , closing her eyes , seemed to sleep again . 
And Richard held her thus , forgetting his own fatigue , and refusing to give up his post either to Andy or Melinda , both of whom ventured in at last , and tried to make him take some refreshment and rest . 
`` 102 , '' Richard replied , while Melinda rejoined -- `` That is the number she talks about , -- that and 101 . 
Richard was certain of it . 
Mrs. Markham , senior , was washing windows when Tim Jones brought her the letter , bearing the Davenport post-mark . 
Melinda had purposely abstained from writing home until Richard came ; and so the letter was in his handwriting , which his mother recognized at once . 
`` Why , it 's from Richard ! '' 
A bath in the tin wash-basin does me very well , '' and the good woman wiped her window leisurely , and even put it back and fastened the side-slat in its place , before she sat down to see what Richard had written . 
He was a little anxious to know what Mrs. Markham would say ; but as she was in no hurry to open her letter , and he was in a hurry to tell his mother the good news , he bade her good morning , and mounting his horse , galloped away toward home . 
`` I hope he 's told who the critter was that was took sick in the house , '' Mrs. Markham said , as she adjusted her glasses , and broke the seal . 
Mrs. Markham had never fainted in her life , but she came very near it that morning , feeling some as she would if the Daisy , dead so long , had suddenly walked into the room and taken a seat beside her . 
`` I never saw a man change as he has , pinin ' for her . 
I mean to be good to her , if I can ; '' and Mrs. Markham 's sun-bonnet was bent low over Richard 's letter , on which there were traces of tears when the head was lifted up again . 
I never can stand it till dinner-time , '' she said ; and a shrill blast from the tin horn , used to bring her sons to dinner , went echoing across the prairie to the lot where John was working . 
John , she 's come . 
She 's there at Richard 's , -- sick with the fever , and crazy ; and Richard is so glad . 
`` I presume they doctor her that silly fashion , with little pills the size of a small pin-head . 
I 'd better go myself and see to it , '' Mrs. Markham said , after they had reached the house , and John , at her request , had read the letter aloud . 
John did not quite fancy his mother 's going , particularly as Richard had said nothing about it , but Mrs. Markham was determined . 
`` It was a good way to make it up with Ethelyn , to be there when she come to , '' she thought , and so , leaving her house-cleaning to itself , and John to his bread and milk , of which he never tired , she packed a little travelling bag , and taking with her a bottle of brandy , started on the next train for Davenport , where she had never been . 
She was cutting dried caraway seed in the garden , and thinking of Ethie and wondering why she did not write , and hoping that when she did she would say that she had talked with Richard , and made the matter up . 
It 's from , -- why , it 's from Richard , and he is in Davenport , '' Aunt Barbara exclaimed , as she sat down in a garden chair to read the letter which was not from Ethie . 
Richard did not say directly to her that she must come , but Aunt Barbara felt an innate conviction that her presence would not be disagreeable , even if Ethie lived , while `` if she died , '' and Aunt Barbara 's heart gave a great throb as she thought it , `` if Ethie dies , I mustbe there , '' and so her trunk was packed for the third time in Ethie 's behalf , and the next day 's train from Boston carried the good woman on her way to Davenport . 
The friends were all there now , -- James , and John , and Andy , and Aunt Barbara , with Mrs. Markham , senior , who , next to Richard and Andy , seemed more anxious , more interested than any one for the sick girl who lay insensible of all that was passing around her , save at brief intervals when she seemed for an instant to realize where she was , for her eyes would flash about the room with a frightened look , and then seek Richard 's face with a pleading expression , as if asking him not to cast her off , not to send her back into the dreary world where she had wandered so long alone . 
The sight of so many seemed to worry her , and , at the doctor 's suggestion , all were at last banished from the sick-room except Aunt Barbara , and Richard , and Nick Bottom , as Ethelyn persisted in calling poor Andy , who was terribly perplexed to know whether he was complimented or not , and who eventually took to studying Shakspeare to find who Bottom was . 
Those were trying days to Richard , who rarely left Ethelyn 's bedside , except when it was absolutely necessary . 
She was more quiet with him , and would sometimes sleep for hours upon his arm , with one hand clasped in Aunt Barbara 's , and the other held by Andy . 
At other times , when the fever was on , no arm availed to hold her as she tossed from side to side , talking of things at which a stranger would have marvelled , and which made Richard 's heart ache to its very core . 
Sometimes she was a girl in Chicopee , and all the past as connected with Frank Van Buren was lived over again ; then she would talk of Richard , and shudder as she recalled the dreary , dreadful day when the honeysuckles were in blossom , and he came to make her his wife . 
I did not love him then , '' she said , `` nor afterward , on the prairie , nor anywhere , until I went away and found what it was to live without him . '' 
Richard asked her once when he sat alone with her . 
There was no hesitancy on her part , no waiting to make up an answer . 
It was ready on her lips , `` Yes , oh , yes ! '' 
How much of this was real Richard could not tell , but he accepted it all as such , and waited impatiently for the day when the full light of reason should return and Ethie be restored to him . 
There was but little of her past life which he did not learn from her ravings , and so there was less for her to tell him when at last the fever abated , and her eyes met his with a knowing , rational expression . 
Andy was alone with her when the change first came . 
At Andy 's earnest entreaty , Richard had gone for a little exercise in the open air , and was walking slowly up and down the piazza , while Aunt Barbara slept , and Andy kept his vigils by Ethelyn . 
Andy , tell me , -- was that Richard ? 
It was more than an hour before even Aunt Barbara ventured into the room , and when she did she knew by the joy written on Richard 's face and the deep peace shining in Ethie 's eyes that the reconciliation had been complete and perfect . 
I have been so wicked , Richard , -- so wilful and impatient , -- that I wonder you have not learned to hate my very name . 
Gradually , as she could bear it , the family came in one by one to see her , Mrs. Markham , Sen. , waiting till the very last , and refusing to go until Ethelyn had expressed a wish to see her . 
Mrs. Markham was not a bad or a hard woman , either . 
She was only unfortunate that her ideas had run in one rut so long without any jolt to throw them out . 
Circumstances had greatly softened her , and Ethie 's words touched her deeply . 
`` I was mighty mean to you sometimes , Ethelyn , and I 've been sorry for it , '' she said , as she stooped to kiss her daughter-in-law , and then hurried from the room . 
`` Only to think , she called me mother , '' she said to Melinda , to whom she reported the particulars of her interview with Ethelyn , -- `` me , who had been meaner than dirt to her , -- called me mother , when I used to mistrust she did n't think any more of me than if I 'd been an old squaw . 
Between husband and wife there was perfect love ; and in his newly-born happiness Richard forgot the ailments which had sent him an invalid to Clifton ; while Ethie , surrounded by every luxury which love could devise or money procure , and made each hour to feel how dear she was to those from whom she had been so long estranged , grew fresh , and young , and pretty again ; so that when , early in December , Mrs. Dr. Van Buren came to Davenport to see her niece , she found her more beautiful than she had been in her early girlhood , when the boyish Frank had paid his court to her . 
She was not invited to do that , and in January she went back to her home , but not until she had eaten a Christmas dinner with Mrs. Markham , senior , at whose house the whole family assembled on that occasion . 
There was much good cheer and merriment there , and Ethie , in the rich crimson silk which Richard had surprised her with , was the queen of all , her wishes deferred to , and her tastes consulted with a delicacy and deference which no one could fail to observe . 
But this time it was at the Governor 's house in Davenport , and another was added to the number , -- a pretty little waxen thing , which all through the elaborate dinner slept quietly in its crib , and then in the evening , when the gas was lighted in the parlors , behaved most admirably , and lay very still in Richard 's arms until it was transferred from his to those of the clergyman , who in the name of the Father , the Son , and the Holy Ghost baptized it `` Daisy Grant . '' 
