Elinor , this eldest daughter whose advice was so effectual , possessed a strength of understanding , and coolness of judgment , which qualified her , though only nineteen , to be the counsellor of her mother , and enabled her frequently to counteract , to the advantage of them all , that eagerness of mind in Mrs. Dashwood which must generally have led to imprudence . 
Marianne 's abilities were , in many respects , quite equal to Elinor 's . 
She was sensible and clever ; but eager in every thing ; her sorrows , her joys , could have no moderation . 
She was generous , amiable , interesting : she was every thing but prudent . 
The resemblance between her and her mother was strikingly great . 
Elinor saw , with concern , the excess of her sister 's sensibility ; but by Mrs. Dashwood it was valued and cherished . 
Elinor , too , was deeply afflicted ; but still she could struggle , she could exert herself . 
She could consult with her brother , could receive her sister-in-law on her arrival , and treat her with every proper attention ; and could strive to rouse her mother to similar exertion , and encourage her to similar forbearance . 
It was enough for her that he appeared to be amiable , that he loved her daughter , and that Elinor returned the partiality . 
It was contrary to every doctrine of her 's that difference of fortune should keep any couple asunder who were attracted by resemblance of disposition ; and that Elinor 's merit should not be acknowledged by every one who knew her , was to her comprehension impossible . 
She was first called to observe and approve him farther , by a reflection which Elinor chanced one day to make on the difference between him and his sister . 
It was a contrast which recommended him most forcibly to her mother . 
`` It is enough ; '' said she , `` to say that he is unlike Fanny is enough . 
`` I think you will like him , '' said Elinor , `` when you know more of him . '' 
replied her mother with a smile . 
She speedily comprehended all his merits ; the persuasion of his regard for Elinor perhaps assisted her penetration ; but she really felt assured of his worth : and even that quietness of manner which militated against all her established ideas of what a young man 's address ought to be , was no longer uninteresting when she knew his heart to be warm and his temper affectionate . 
No sooner did she perceive any symptom of love in his behaviour to Elinor , than she considered their serious attachment as certain , and looked forward to their marriage as rapidly approaching . 
`` In a few months , my dear Marianne , '' said she , `` Elinor will in all probability be settled for life . 
We shall miss her ; but she will be happy . '' 
mama , how shall we do without her ? '' 
Music seems scarcely to attract him , and though he admires Elinor 's drawings very much , it is not the admiration of a person who can understand their worth . 
It is evident , in spite of his frequent attention to her while she draws , that in fact he knows nothing of the matter . 
Elinor has not my feelings , and therefore she may overlook it , and be happy with him . 
`` What a pity it is , Elinor , '' said Marianne , `` that Edward should have no taste for drawing . '' 
`` No taste for drawing , '' replied Elinor ; why should you think so ? 
Marianne was afraid of offending , and said no more on the subject ; but the kind of approbation which Elinor described as excited in him by the drawings of other people , was very far from that rapturous delight , which , in her opinion , could alone be called taste . 
Yet , though smiling within herself at the mistake , she honoured her sister for that blind partiality to Edward which produced it . 
`` I hope , Marianne , '' continued Elinor , `` you do not consider him as deficient in general taste . 
At length she replied : `` Do not be offended , Elinor , if my praise of him is not in every thing equal to your sense of his merits . 
`` I am sure , '' replied Elinor with a smile , `` that his dearest friends could not be dissatisfied with such commendation as that . 
`` Of his sense and his goodness , '' continued Elinor , `` no one can , I think , be in doubt , who has seen him often enough to engage him in unreserved conversation . 
`` I shall very soon think him handsome , Elinor , if I do not now . 
Elinor started at this declaration , and was sorry for the warmth she had been betrayed into , in speaking of him . 
She felt that Edward stood very high in her opinion . 
She believed the regard to be mutual ; but she required greater certainty of it to make Marianne 's conviction of their attachment agreeable to her . 
Cold-hearted Elinor ! 
Elinor could not help laughing . 
`` Excuse me , '' said she , `` and be assured that I meant no offence to you , by speaking , in so quiet a way , of my own feelings . 
Elinor had given her real opinion to her sister . 
She could not consider her partiality for Edward in so prosperous a state as Marianne had believed it . 
With such a knowledge as this , it was impossible for Elinor to feel easy on the subject . 
She was far from depending on that result of his preference of her , which her mother and sister still considered as certain . 
Nay , the longer they were together the more doubtful seemed the nature of his regard ; and sometimes , for a few painful minutes , she believed it to be no more than friendship . 
She gave her an answer which marked her contempt , and instantly left the room , resolving , that whatever might be the inconvenience or expence of so sudden a removal , her beloved Elinor should not be exposed another week to such insinuations . 
Elinor had always thought it would be more prudent for them to settle at some distance from Norland than immediately amongst their present acquaintance . 
On that head , therefore , it was not for her to oppose her mother 's intention of removing into Devonshire . 
To separate Edward and Elinor was as far from being her object as ever ; and she wished to shew Mrs. John Dashwood by this pointed invitation to her brother , how totally she disregarded her disapprobation of the match . 
For the comfort of her children , had she consulted only her own wishes , she would have kept it ; but the discretion of Elinor prevailed . 
Her wisdom too limited the number of their servants to three ; two maids and a man , with whom they were speedily provided from amongst those who had formed their establishment at Norland . 
Marianne 's pianoforte was unpacked and properly disposed of ; and Elinor 's drawings were affixed to the walls of their sitting room . 
Marianne was vexed at it for her sister 's sake , and turned her eyes towards Elinor to see how she bore these attacks , with an earnestness which gave Elinor far more pain than could arise from such common-place raillery as Mrs. Jennings 's . 
said Elinor , `` do you call Colonel Brandon infirm ? 
`` My dearest child , '' said her mother laughing , `` at this rate you must be in continual terror of my decay ; and it must seem to you a miracle that my life has been extended to the advanced age of forty . '' 
`` Perhaps , '' said Elinor , `` thirty-five and seventeen had better not have anything to do with matrimony together . 
`` It would be impossible , I know , '' replied Elinor , `` to convince you that a woman of seven and twenty could feel for a man of thirty-five any thing near enough to love , to make him a desirable companion to her . 
Soon after this , upon Elinor 's leaving the room , `` Mama , '' said Marianne , `` I have an alarm on the subject of illness , which I can not conceal from you . 
On the contrary , if I have felt any anxiety at all on the subject , it has been in recollecting that he sometimes shewed a want of pleasure and readiness in accepting my invitation , when I talked of his coming to Barton . 
Does Elinor expect him already ? '' 
In Edward 's farewell there was no distinction between Elinor and me ; it was the good wishes of an affectionate brother to both . 
And Elinor , in quitting Norland and Edward , cried not as I did . 
Even now her self-command is invariable . 
When is she dejected or melancholy ? 
When does she try to avoid society , or appear restless and dissatisfied in it ? '' 
They gaily ascended the downs , rejoicing in their own penetration at every glimpse of blue sky ; and when they caught in their faces the animating gales of an high south-westerly wind , they pitied the fears which had prevented their mother and Elinor from sharing such delightful sensations . 
Elinor and her mother rose up in amazement at their entrance , and while the eyes of both were fixed on him with an evident wonder and a secret admiration which equally sprung from his appearance , he apologized for his intrusion by relating its cause , in a manner so frank and so graceful , that his person , which was uncommonly handsome , received additional charms from his voice and expression . 
said Elinor . 
`` Well Marianne , '' said Elinor , as soon as he had left them , for one morning I think you have done pretty well . 
-- `` Elinor , '' cried Marianne , `` is this fair ? 
-- `` My love , '' said her mother , `` you must not be offended with Elinor -- she was only in jest . 
I should scold her myself , if she were capable of wishing to check the delight of your conversation with our new friend . '' 
In Mrs. Dashwood 's estimation , he was as faultless as in Marianne 's ; and Elinor saw nothing to censure in him but a propensity , in which he strongly resembled and peculiarly delighted her sister , of saying too much what he thought on every occasion , without attention to persons or circumstances . 
In hastily forming and giving his opinion of other people , in sacrificing general politeness to the enjoyment of undivided attention where his heart was engaged , and in slighting too easily the forms of worldly propriety , he displayed a want of caution which Elinor could not approve , in spite of all that he and Marianne could say in its support . 
Colonel Brandon 's partiality for Marianne , which had so early been discovered by his friends , now first became perceptible to Elinor , when it ceased to be noticed by them . 
Elinor was obliged , though unwillingly , to believe that the sentiments which Mrs. Jennings had assigned him for her own satisfaction , were now actually excited by her sister ; and that however a general resemblance of disposition between the parties might forward the affection of Mr. Willoughby , an equally striking opposition of character was no hindrance to the regard of Colonel Brandon . 
`` Do not boast of it however , '' said Elinor , `` for it is injustice in both of you . 
`` You decide on his imperfections so much in the mass , '' replied Elinor , `` and so much on the strength of your own imagination , that the commendation I am able to give of him is comparatively cold and insipid . 
Elinor could not be surprised at their attachment . 
She only wished that it were less openly shewn ; and once or twice did venture to suggest the propriety of some self-command to Marianne . 
Elinor 's happiness was not so great . 
She had already repeated her own history to Elinor three or four times ; and had Elinor 's memory been equal to her means of improvement , she might have known very early in their acquaintance , all the particulars of Mr. Jennings 's last illness , and what he said to his wife a few minutes before he died . 
Elinor needed little observation to perceive that her reserve was a mere calmness of manner with which sense had nothing to do . 
Towards her husband and mother she was the same as to them ; and intimacy was therefore neither to be looked for nor desired . 
She had nothing to say one day that she had not said the day before . 
Her insipidity was invariable , for even her spirits were always the same ; and though she did not oppose the parties arranged by her husband , provided every thing were conducted in stile and her two eldest children attended her , she never appeared to receive more enjoyment from them , than she might have experienced in sitting at home ; -- and so little did her presence add to the pleasure of the others , by any share in their conversation , that they were sometimes only reminded of her being amongst them by her solicitude about her troublesome boys . 
In Colonel Brandon alone , of all her new acquaintance , did Elinor find a person who could in any degree claim the respect of abilities , excite the interest of friendship , or give pleasure as a companion . 
Her admiration and regard , even her sisterly regard , was all his own ; but he was a lover ; his attentions were wholly Marianne 's , and a far less agreeable man might have been more generally pleasing . 
Colonel Brandon , unfortunately for himself , had no such encouragement to think only of Marianne , and in conversing with Elinor he found the greatest consolation for the total indifference of her sister . 
Elinor 's compassion for him encreased , as she had reason to suspect that the misery of disappointed love had already been known by him . 
`` No , '' replied Elinor , `` her opinions are all romantic . '' 
`` I can not agree with you there , '' said Elinor . 
I once knew a lady who in temper and mind greatly resembled your sister , who thought and judged like her , but who from an inforced change -- from a series of unfortunate circumstances '' -- Here he stopt suddenly ; appeared to think that he had said too much , and by his countenance gave rise to conjectures , which might not otherwise have entered Elinor 's head . 
Elinor attempted no more . 
As Elinor and Marianne were walking together the next morning , the latter communicated a piece of news to her sister , which , in spite of all that she knew before of Marianne 's imprudence and want of thought , surprised her by its extravagant testimony of both . 
Imagine to yourself , my dear Elinor , the delight of a gallop on some of these downs . '' 
Elinor then ventured to doubt the propriety of her receiving such a present from a man so little , or at least so lately known to her . 
`` You are mistaken , Elinor , '' said she warmly , `` in supposing I know but little of Willoughby . 
Elinor thought it wisest to touch that point no more . 
She knew her sister 's temper . 
Opposition on so tender a subject would only attach her the more to her own opinion . 
But by an appeal to her affection for her mother , by representing the inconveniences which that indulgent mother must draw on herself , if -LRB- as would probably be the case -RRB- she consented to this increase of establishment , Marianne was shortly subdued ; and she promised not to tempt her mother to such imprudent kindness by mentioning the offer , and to tell Willoughby , when she saw him next , that it must be declined . 
She was faithful to her word ; and when Willoughby called at the cottage , the same day , Elinor heard her express her disappointment to him in a low voice , on being obliged to forego the acceptance of his present . 
Elinor , '' she cried , `` I have such a secret to tell you about Marianne . 
`` You have said so , '' replied Elinor , `` almost every day since they first met on High-church Down ; and they had not known each other a week , I believe , before you were certain that Marianne wore his picture round her neck ; but it turned out to be only the miniature of our great uncle . '' 
`` But indeed , Elinor , it is Marianne 's . 
From such particulars , stated on such authority , Elinor could not withhold her credit : nor was she disposed to it , for the circumstance was in perfect unison with what she had heard and seen herself . 
When Mrs. Jennings attacked her one evening at the park , to give the name of the young man who was Elinor 's particular favourite , which had been long a matter of great curiosity to her , Margaret answered by looking at her sister , and saying . 
`` I must not tell , may I , Elinor ? '' 
This of course made every body laugh ; and Elinor tried to laugh too . 
She was convinced that Margaret had fixed on a person whose name she could not bear with composure , to become a standing joke with Mrs. Jennings . 
`` Well then he is lately dead , Marianne , for I am sure there was such a man once , and his name begins with an F. '' Most grateful did Elinor feel to Lady Middleton for observing at this moment , `` that it rained very hard , '' though she believed the interruption to proceed less from any attention to her , than from her ladyship 's great dislike of all such inelegant subjects of raillery as delighted her husband and mother . 
The idea however started by her , was immediately pursued by Colonel Brandon , who was on every occasion mindful of the feelings of others ; and much was said on the subject of rain by both of them . 
But not so easily did Elinor recover from the alarm into which it had thrown her . 
To some few of the company , it appeared rather a bold undertaking , considering the time of year , and that it had rained every day for the last fortnight ; -- and Mrs. Dashwood , who had already a cold , was persuaded by Elinor to stay at home . 
Their intended excursion to Whitwell turned out very differently from what Elinor had expected . 
She was prepared to be wet through , fatigued , and frightened ; but the event was still more unfortunate , for they did not go at all . 
-- Elinor then heard Willoughby say in a low voice to Marianne , `` There are some people who can not bear a party of pleasure . 
Then lowering her voice a little , she said to Elinor , `` She is his natural daughter . '' 
Mrs. Jennings sat on Elinor 's right hand ; and they had not been long seated , before she leant behind her and Willoughby , and said to Marianne , loud enough for them both to hear , `` I have found you out in spite of all your tricks . 
Mrs. Jennings laughed heartily ; and Elinor found that in her resolution to know where they had been , she had actually made her own woman enquire of Mr. Willoughby 's groom , and that she had by that method been informed that they had gone to Allenham , and spent a considerable time there in walking about the garden and going all over the house . 
Elinor could hardly believe this to be true , as it seemed very unlikely that Willoughby should propose , or Marianne consent , to enter the house while Mrs. Smith was in it , with whom Marianne had not the smallest acquaintance . 
As soon as they left the dining-room , Elinor enquired of her about it ; and great was her surprise when she found that every circumstance related by Mrs. Jennings was perfectly true . 
`` Why should you imagine , Elinor , that we did not go there , or that we did not see the house ? 
`` I am afraid , '' replied Elinor , `` that the pleasantness of an employment does not always evince its propriety . '' 
`` On the contrary , nothing can be a stronger proof of it , Elinor ; for if there had been any real impropriety in what I did , I should have been sensible of it at the time , for we always know when we are acting wrong , and with such a conviction I could have had no pleasure . '' 
She blushed at this hint ; but it was even visibly gratifying to her ; and after a ten minutes ' interval of earnest thought , she came to her sister again , and said with great good humour , `` Perhaps , Elinor , it was rather illjudged in me to go to Allenham ; but Mr. Willoughby wanted particularly to shew me the place ; and it is a charming house I assure you . 
Could Elinor have listened to her without interruption from the others , she would have described every room in the house with equal delight . 
Elinor , though she felt really interested in the welfare of Colonel Brandon , could not bestow all the wonder on his going so suddenly away , which Mrs. Jennings was desirous of her feeling ; for besides that the circumstance did not in her opinion justify such lasting amazement or variety of speculation , her wonder was otherwise disposed of . 
Why they should not openly acknowledge to her mother and herself , what their constant behaviour to each other declared to have taken place , Elinor could not imagine . 
She could easily conceive that marriage might not be immediately in their power ; for though Willoughby was independent , there was no reason to believe him rich . 
`` With dark narrow stairs , and a kitchen that smokes , I suppose , '' said Elinor . 
`` I flatter myself , '' replied Elinor , `` that even under the disadvantage of better rooms and a broader staircase , you will hereafter find your own house as faultless as you now do this . '' 
Mrs. Dashwood looked at Elinor with surprise . 
Elinor felt equal amazement . 
Elinor 's uneasiness was at least equal to her mother 's . 
She thought of what had just passed with anxiety and distrust . 
Willoughby 's behaviour in taking leave of them , his embarrassment , and affectation of cheerfulness , and , above all , his unwillingness to accept her mother 's invitation , a backwardness so unlike a lover , so unlike himself , greatly disturbed her . 
One moment she feared that no serious design had ever been formed on his side ; and the next , that some unfortunate quarrel had taken place between him and her sister ; -- the distress in which Marianne had quitted the room was such as a serious quarrel could most reasonably account for , though when she considered what Marianne 's love for him was , a quarrel seemed almost impossible . 
`` Our dear Willoughby is now some miles from Barton , Elinor , '' said she , as she sat down to work , `` and with how heavy a heart does he travel ? '' 
-- `` It was not inclination that he wanted , Elinor ; I could plainly see that . 
I have explained it to myself in the most satisfactory way ; -- but you , Elinor , who love to doubt where you can -- It will not satisfy you I know ; but you shall not talk me out of my trust in it . 
And now , Elinor , what have you to say ? '' 
Elinor , how incomprehensible are your feelings ! 
`` I want no proof of their affection , '' said Elinor ; `` but of their engagement I do . '' 
My Elinor , is it possible to doubt their engagement ? 
`` I confess , '' replied Elinor , `` that every circumstance except one is in favour of their engagement ; but that one is the total silence of both on the subject , and with me it almost outweighs every other . '' 
`` I hope not , I believe not , '' cried Elinor . 
They were interrupted by the entrance of Margaret ; and Elinor was then at liberty to think over the representations of her mother , to acknowledge the probability of many , and hope for the justice of all . 
Her mother was surprised , and Elinor again became uneasy . 
`` Remember , Elinor , '' said she , `` how very often Sir John fetches our letters himself from the post , and carries them to it . 
Elinor could not deny the truth of this , and she tried to find in it a motive sufficient for their silence . 
But there was one method so direct , so simple , and in her opinion so eligible of knowing the real state of the affair , and of instantly removing all mystery , that she could not help suggesting it to her mother . 
`` Why do you not ask Marianne at once , '' said she , `` whether she is , or is not engaged to Willoughby ? 
Elinor thought this generosity overstrained , considering her sister 's youth , and urged the matter farther , but in vain ; common sense , common care , common prudence , were all sunk in Mrs. Dashwood 's romantic delicacy . 
Mrs. Dashwood was sorry for what she had said ; but it gave Elinor pleasure , as it produced a reply from Marianne so expressive of confidence in Willoughby and knowledge of his intentions . 
But at length she was secured by the exertions of Elinor , who greatly disapproved such continual seclusion . 
They walked along the road through the valley , and chiefly in silence , for Marianne 's mind could not be controuled , and Elinor , satisfied with gaining one point , would not then attempt more . 
-- And was hastening to meet him , when Elinor cried out , `` Indeed , Marianne , I think you are mistaken . 
She walked eagerly on as she spoke ; and Elinor , to screen Marianne from particularity , as she felt almost certain of its not being Willoughby , quickened her pace and kept up with her . 
He was welcomed by them all with great cordiality , but especially by Marianne , who shewed more warmth of regard in her reception of him than even Elinor herself . 
He was confused , seemed scarcely sensible of pleasure in seeing them , looked neither rapturous nor gay , said little but what was forced from him by questions , and distinguished Elinor by no mark of affection . 
she repeated , surprised at his being so long in the same county with Elinor without seeing her before . 
said Elinor . 
`` Dear , dear Norland , '' said Elinor , `` probably looks much as it always does at this time of year . 
`` It is not every one , '' said Elinor , `` who has your passion for dead leaves . '' 
-- As she said this , she sunk into a reverie for a few moments ; -- but rousing herself again , `` Now Edward , '' said she , calling his attention to the prospect , `` Here is Barton valley . 
Elinor took no notice of this , and directing her attention to their visitor , endeavoured to support something like discourse with him by talking of their present residence , its conveniences , & c. extorting from him occasional questions and remarks . 
His coldness and reserve mortified her severely ; she was vexed and half angry ; but resolving to regulate her behaviour to him by the past rather than the present , she avoided every appearance of resentment or displeasure , and treated him as she thought he ought to be treated from the family connection . 
Indeed a man could not very well be in love with either of her daughters , without extending the passion to her ; and Elinor had the satisfaction of seeing him soon become more like himself . 
`` Grandeur has but little , '' said Elinor , `` but wealth has much to do with it . '' 
`` Elinor , for shame ! '' 
`` Perhaps , '' said Elinor smiling , `` we may come to the same point . 
Elinor laughed , `` Two thousand a year ! 
Elinor smiled again , to hear her sister describing so accurately their future expenses at Combe Magna . 
`` We are all unanimous in that wish , I suppose , '' said Elinor , `` in spite of the insufficiency of wealth . '' 
`` You must begin your improvements on this house , '' observed Elinor , `` and your difficulties will soon vanish . '' 
`` Marianne is as stedfast as ever , you see , '' said Elinor , `` she is not at all altered . '' 
`` Nor do I think it a part of Marianne 's , '' said Elinor ; `` I should hardly call her a lively girl -- she is very earnest , very eager in all she does -- sometimes talks a great deal and always with animation -- but she is not often really merry . '' 
`` I have frequently detected myself in such kind of mistakes , '' said Elinor , `` in a total misapprehension of character in some point or other : fancying people so much more gay or grave , or ingenious or stupid than they really are , and I can hardly tell why , or in what the deception originated . 
`` But I thought it was right , Elinor , '' said Marianne , `` to be guided wholly by the opinion of other people . 
`` You have not yet been able then to bring your sister over to your plan of general civility , '' said Edward to Elinor . 
`` Quite the contrary , '' replied Elinor , looking expressively at Marianne . 
`` Marianne has not shyness to excuse any inattention of hers , '' said Elinor . 
Elinor looked surprised at his emotion , but trying to laugh off the subject , she said to him , `` Do not you know my sister well enough to understand what she means ? 
Elinor saw , with great uneasiness , the low spirits of her friend . 
His visit afforded her but a very partial satisfaction , while his own enjoyment in it appeared so imperfect . 
It was evident that he was unhappy ; she wished it were equally evident that he still distinguished her by the same affection which once she had felt no doubt of inspiring ; but hitherto the continuance of his preference seemed very uncertain ; and the reservedness of his manner towards her contradicted one moment what a more animated look had intimated the preceding one . 
He joined her and Marianne in the breakfast-room the next morning before the others were down ; and Marianne , who was always eager to promote their happiness as far as she could , soon left them to themselves . 
`` I suspect , '' said Elinor , `` that to avoid one kind of affectation , Edward here falls into another . 
Elinor only laughed . 
He coloured very deeply , and giving a momentary glance at Elinor , replied , `` Yes ; it is my sister 's hair . 
Elinor had met his eye , and looked conscious likewise . 
That the hair was her own , she instantaneously felt as well satisfied as Marianne ; the only difference in their conclusions was , that what Marianne considered as a free gift from her sister , Elinor was conscious must have been procured by some theft or contrivance unknown to herself . 
She was not in a humour , however , to regard it as an affront , and affecting to take no notice of what passed , by instantly talking of something else , she internally resolved henceforward to catch every opportunity of eyeing the hair and of satisfying herself , beyond all doubt , that it was exactly the shade of her own . 
With the assistance of his mother-in-law , Sir John was not long in discovering that the name of Ferrars began with an F. and this prepared a future mine of raillery against the devoted Elinor , which nothing but the newness of their acquaintance with Edward could have prevented from being immediately sprung . 
But , as it was , she only learned from some very significant looks , how far their penetration , founded on Margaret 's instructions , extended . 
Elinor placed all that was astonishing in this way of acting to his mother 's account ; and it was happy for her that he had a mother whose character was so imperfectly known to her , as to be the general excuse for every thing strange on the part of her son . 
Disappointed , however , and vexed as she was , and sometimes displeased with his uncertain behaviour to herself , she was very well disposed on the whole to regard his actions with all the candid allowances and generous qualifications , which had been rather more painfully extorted from her , for Willoughby 's service by her mother . 
This desponding turn of mind , though it could not be communicated to Mrs. Dashwood , gave additional pain to them all in the parting , which shortly took place , and left an uncomfortable impression on Elinor 's feelings especially , which required some trouble and time to subdue . 
But as it was her determination to subdue it , and to prevent herself from appearing to suffer more than what all her family suffered on his going away , she did not adopt the method so judiciously employed by Marianne , on a similar occasion , to augment and fix her sorrow , by seeking silence , solitude , and idleness . 
Elinor sat down to her drawing-table as soon as he was out of the house , busily employed herself the whole day , neither sought nor avoided the mention of his name , appeared to interest herself almost as much as ever in the general concerns of the family , and if , by this conduct , she did not lessen her own grief , it was at least prevented from unnecessary increase , and her mother and sisters were spared much solicitude on her account . 
Such behaviour as this , so exactly the reverse of her own , appeared no more meritorious to Marianne , than her own had seemed faulty to her . 
Without shutting herself up from her family , or leaving the house in determined solitude to avoid them , or lieing awake the whole night to indulge meditation , Elinor found every day afforded her leisure enough to think of Edward , and of Edward 's behaviour , in every possible variety which the different state of her spirits at different times could produce ; -- with tenderness , pity , approbation , censure , and doubt . 
There were moments in abundance , when , if not by the absence of her mother and sisters , at least by the nature of their employments , conversation was forbidden among them , and every effect of solitude was produced . 
Her mind was inevitably at liberty ; her thoughts could not be chained elsewhere ; and the past and the future , on a subject so interesting , must be before her , must force her attention , and engross her memory , her reflection , and her fancy . 
From a reverie of this kind , as she sat at her drawing-table , she was roused one morning , soon after Edward 's leaving them , by the arrival of company . 
She happened to be quite alone . 
The closing of the little gate , at the entrance of the green court in front of the house , drew her eyes to the window , and she saw a large party walking up to the door . 
As Elinor was certain of seeing her in a couple of minutes , without taking that liberty , she begged to be excused . 
I thought of nothing but whether it might not be Colonel Brandon come back again ; so I said to Sir John , I do think I hear a carriage ; perhaps it is Colonel Brandon come back again '' -- Elinor was obliged to turn from her , in the middle of her story , to receive the rest of the party ; Lady Midleton introduced the two strangers ; Mrs. Dashwood and Margaret came down stairs at the same time , and they all sat down to look at one another , while Mrs. Jennings continued her story as she walked through the passage into the parlour , attended by Sir John . 
`` You may believe how glad we all were to see them , '' added Mrs. Jennings , leaning forwards towards Elinor , and speaking in a low voice as if she meant to be heard by no one else , though they were seated on different sides of the room ; `` but , however , I ca n't help wishing they had not travelled quite so fast , nor made such a long journey of it , for they came all round by London upon account of some business , for you know -LRB- nodding significantly and pointing to her daughter -RRB- it was wrong in her situation . 
`` They mean no less to be civil and kind to us now , '' said Elinor , `` by these frequent invitations than by those which we received from them a few weeks ago . 
said she , seating herself between Elinor and Marianne , `` for it is so bad a day I was afraid you might not come , which would be a shocking thing , as we go away again to-morrow . 
said she , in a whisper , to Elinor . 
Elinor was not inclined after a little observation , to give him credit for being so genuinely and unaffectedly ill-natured or ill-bred as he wished to appear . 
Elinor could hardly keep her countenance as she assented to the hardship of such an obligation . 
She surprised Elinor very much as they returned into the drawing room by asking her whether she did not like Mr. Palmer excessively . 
`` Certainly ; '' said Elinor , `` he seems very agreeable . '' 
Elinor was again obliged to decline her invitation ; and by changing the subject , put a stop to her entreaties . 
She thought it probable that as they lived in the same county , Mrs. Palmer might be able to give some more particular account of Willoughby 's general character , than could be gathered from the Middletons ' partial acquaintance with him ; and she was eager to gain from any one , such a confirmation of his merits as might remove the possibility of fear for Marianne . 
`` Upon my word , '' replied Elinor , `` you know much more of the matter than I do , if you have any reason to expect such a match . '' 
said Elinor . 
But this did not last long ; Elinor had hardly got their last visitors out of her head , had hardly done wondering at Charlotte 's being so happy without a cause , at Mr. Palmer 's acting so simply , with good abilities , and at the strange unsuitableness which often existed between husband and wife , before Sir John 's and Mrs. Jennings 's active zeal in the cause of society , procured her some other new acquaintance to see and observe . 
From such commendation as this , however , there was not much to be learned ; Elinor well knew that the sweetest girls in the world were to be met with in every part of England , under every possible variation of form , face , temper , and understanding . 
-- Their manners were particularly civil , and Elinor soon allowed them credit for some kind of sense , when she saw with what constant and judicious attentions they were making themselves agreeable to Lady Middleton . 
It suggested no other surprise than that Elinor and Marianne should sit so composedly by , without claiming a share in what was passing . 
said she , on his taking Miss Steele 's pocket handkerchief , and throwing it out of window -- `` He is full of monkey tricks . '' 
Marianne was silent ; it was impossible for her to say what she did not feel , however trivial the occasion ; and upon Elinor therefore the whole task of telling lies when politeness required it , always fell . 
She did her best when thus called on , by speaking of Lady Middleton with more warmth than she felt , though with far less than Miss Lucy . 
`` I should guess so , '' said Elinor with a smile , `` from what I have witnessed this morning . '' 
`` I confess , '' replied Elinor , `` that while I am at Barton Park , I never think of tame and quiet children with any abhorrence . '' 
In some surprise at the familiarity of this question , or at least of the manner in which it was spoken , Elinor replied that she was . 
`` I think every one must admire it , '' replied Elinor , `` who ever saw the place ; though it is not to be supposed that any one can estimate its beauties as we do . '' 
`` Upon my word , '' replied Elinor , `` I can not tell you , for I do not perfectly comprehend the meaning of the word . 
Anne , '' cried her sister , `` you can talk of nothing but beaux ; -- you will make Miss Dashwood believe you think of nothing else . '' 
And then to turn the discourse , she began admiring the house and the furniture . 
The vulgar freedom and folly of the eldest left her no recommendation , and as Elinor was not blinded by the beauty , or the shrewd look of the youngest , to her want of real elegance and artlessness , she left the house without any wish of knowing them better . 
-- And to be better acquainted therefore , Elinor soon found was their inevitable lot , for as Sir John was entirely on the side of the Miss Steeles , their party would be too strong for opposition , and that kind of intimacy must be submitted to , which consists of sitting an hour or two together in the same room almost every day . 
To do him justice , he did every thing in his power to promote their unreserve , by making the Miss Steeles acquainted with whatever he knew or supposed of his cousins ' situations in the most delicate particulars , -- and Elinor had not seen them more than twice , before the eldest of them wished her joy on her sister 's having been so lucky as to make a conquest of a very smart beau since she came to Barton . 
`` ` Twill be a fine thing to have her married so young to be sure , '' said she , `` and I hear he is quite a beau , and prodigious handsome . 
Elinor could not suppose that Sir John would be more nice in proclaiming his suspicions of her regard for Edward , than he had been with respect to Marianne ; indeed it was rather his favourite joke of the two , as being somewhat newer and more conjectural ; and since Edward 's visit , they had never dined together , without his drinking to her best affections with so much significancy and so many nods and winks , as to excite general attention . 
The letter F -- had been likewise invariably brought forward , and found productive of such countless jokes , that its character as the wittiest letter in the alphabet had been long established with Elinor . 
The Miss Steeles , as she expected , had now all the benefit of these jokes , and in the eldest of them they raised a curiosity to know the name of the gentleman alluded to , which , though often impertinently expressed , was perfectly of a piece with her general inquisitiveness into the concerns of their family . 
Elinor heard all this with attention and surprise . 
Marianne , who had never much toleration for any thing like impertinence , vulgarity , inferiority of parts , or even difference of taste from herself , was at this time particularly ill-disposed from the state of her spirits , to be pleased with the Miss Steeles , or to encourage their advances ; and to the invariable coldness of her behaviour towards them , which checked every endeavour at intimacy on their side , Elinor principally attributed that preference of herself which soon became evident in the manners of both , but especially of Lucy , who missed no opportunity of engaging her in conversation , or of striving to improve their acquaintance by an easy and frank communication of her sentiments . 
Lucy was naturally clever ; her remarks were often just and amusing ; and as a companion for half an hour Elinor frequently found her agreeable ; but her powers had received no aid from education , she was ignorant and illiterate , and her deficiency of all mental improvement , her want of information in the most common particulars , could not be concealed from Miss Dashwood , in spite of her constant endeavour to appear to advantage . 
Elinor saw , and pitied her for , the neglect of abilities which education might have rendered so respectable ; but she saw , with less tenderness of feeling , the thorough want of delicacy , of rectitude , and integrity of mind , which her attentions , her assiduities , her flatteries at the Park betrayed ; and she could have no lasting satisfaction in the company of a person who joined insincerity with ignorance ; whose want of instruction prevented their meeting in conversation on terms of equality , and whose conduct towards others , made every shew of attention and deference towards herself perfectly valueless . 
Elinor did think the question a very odd one , and her countenance expressed it , as she answered that she had never seen Mrs. Ferrars . 
`` No ; '' returned Elinor , cautious of giving her real opinion of Edward 's mother , and not very desirous of satifying , what seemed impertinent curiosity -- `` I know nothing of her . '' 
`` I am sure you think me very strange , for inquiring about her in such a way ; '' said Lucy , eyeing Elinor attentively as she spoke ; `` but perhaps there may be reasons -- I wish I might venture ; but however I hope you will do me the justice of believing that I do not mean to be impertinent . '' 
Elinor made her a civil reply , and they walked on for a few minutes in silence . 
`` I am sorry I do not , '' said Elinor in great astonishment , `` if it could be of any use to you to know my opinion of her . 
She looked down as she said this , amiably bashful , with only one side glance at her companion to observe its effect on her . 
cried Elinor , `` what do you mean ? 
And she did not feel much delighted with the idea of such a sister-in-law . 
`` No ; '' replied Lucy , `` not to Mr. Robert Ferrars -- I never saw him in my life ; but , '' fixing her eyes upon Elinor , `` to his elder brother . '' 
What felt Elinor at that moment ? 
She turned towards Lucy in silent amazement , unable to divine the reason or object of such a declaration , and though her complexion varied , she stood firm in incredulity and felt in no danger of an hysterical fit , or a swoon . 
Elinor for a few moments remained silent . 
Her astonishment at what she heard was at first too great for words ; but at length forcing herself to speak , and to speak cautiously , she said with a calmness of manner , which tolerably well concealed her surprise and solicitude -- `` May I ask if your engagement is of long standing ? '' 
Elinor , though greatly shocked , still felt unable to believe it . 
`` I did not know , '' said she , `` that you were even acquainted till the other day . '' 
`` I think I have , '' replied Elinor , with an exertion of spirits , which increased with her increase of emotion . 
`` Certainly , '' answered Elinor , without knowing what she said ; but after a moment 's reflection , she added , with revived security of Edward 's honour and love , and her companion 's falsehood -- `` Engaged to Mr. Edward Ferrars ! 
`` It is strange , '' replied Elinor in a most painful perplexity , `` that I should never have heard him even mention your name . '' 
She was silent . 
-- Elinor 's security sunk ; but her self command did not sink with it . 
`` Four years you have been engaged , '' said she with a firm voice . 
Then taking a small miniature from her pocket , she added , `` To prevent the possibility of a mistake , be so good as to look at this face . 
She put it into her hands as she spoke , and when Elinor saw the painting , whatever other doubts her fear of a too hasty decision , or her wish of detecting falsehood might suffer to linger in her mind , she could have none of its being Edward 's face . 
She returned it almost instantly , acknowledging the likeness . 
`` You are quite in the right ; '' replied Elinor calmly . 
`` I certainly did not seek your confidence , '' said Elinor ; `` but you do me no more than justice in imagining that I may be depended on . 
As she said this , she looked earnestly at Lucy , hoping to discover something in her countenance ; perhaps the falsehood of the greatest part of what she had been saying ; but Lucy 's countenance suffered no change . 
Here she took out her handkerchief ; but Elinor did not feel very compassionate . 
`` Pardon me , '' replied Elinor , startled by the question ; `` but I can give you no advice under such circumstances . 
`` No , '' replied Elinor , most feelingly sensible of every fresh circumstance in favour of Lucy 's veracity ; `` I remember he told us , that he had been staying a fortnight with some friends near Plymouth . '' 
I heard from him just before I left Exeter ; '' taking a letter from her pocket and carelessly shewing the direction to Elinor . 
Elinor saw that it was his hand , and she could doubt no longer . 
The picture , she had allowed herself to believe , might have been accidentally obtained ; it might not have been Edward 's gift ; but a correspondence between them by letter , could subsist only under a positive engagement , could be authorised by nothing else ; for a few moments , she was almost overcome -- her heart sunk within her , and she could hardly stand ; but exertion was indispensably necessary , and she struggled so resolutely against the oppression of her feelings , that her success was speedy , and for the time complete . 
`` I did ; '' said Elinor , with a composure of voice , under which was concealed an emotion and distress beyond any thing she had ever felt before . 
She was mortified , shocked , confounded . 
Fortunately for her , they had now reached the cottage , and the conversation could be continued no farther . 
After sitting with them a few minutes , the Miss Steeles returned to the Park , and Elinor was then at liberty to think and be wretched . 
However small her general dependance on Lucy 's veracity might be , it was impossible for her on serious reflection to suspect it in the present case , where no temptation could be answerable to the folly of inventing a falsehood of such a description . 
What Lucy had asserted to be true , therefore , Elinor could not , dared not longer doubt ; supported as it was too on every side by such probabilities and proofs , and contradicted by nothing but her own wishes . 
And so well was she able to answer her own expectations , that when she joined them at dinner only two hours after she had first suffered the extinction of all her dearest hopes , no one would have supposed from the appearance of the sisters , that Elinor was mourning in secret over obstacles which must divide her for ever from the object of her love , and that Marianne was internally dwelling on the perfections of a man , of whose whole heart she felt thoroughly possessed and whom she expected to see in every carriage which drove near their house . 
The necessity of concealing from her mother and Marianne , what had been entrusted in confidence to herself , though it obliged her to unceasing exertion , was no aggravation of Elinor 's distress . 
On the contrary it was a relief to her , to be spared the communication of what would give such affliction to them , and to be saved likewise from hearing that condemnation of Edward , which would probably flow from the excess of their partial affection for herself , and which was more than she felt equal to support . 
From their counsel , or their conversation she knew she could receive no assistance , their tenderness and sorrow must add to her distress , while her self-command would neither receive encouragement from their example nor from their praise . 
She was stronger alone , and her own good sense so well supported her , that her firmness was as unshaken , her appearance of cheerfulness as invariable , as with regrets so poignant and so fresh , it was possible for them to be . 
Much as she had suffered from her first conversation with Lucy on the subject , she soon felt an earnest wish of renewing it ; and this for more reasons than one . 
She wanted to hear many particulars of their engagement repeated again , she wanted more clearly to understand what Lucy really felt for Edward , whether there were any sincerity in her declaration of tender regard for him , and she particularly wanted to convince Lucy , by her readiness to enter on the matter again , and her calmness in conversing on it , that she was no otherwise interested in it than as a friend , which she very much feared her involuntary agitation , in their morning discourse , must have left at least doubtful . 
But indeed , while Elinor remained so well assured within herself of being really beloved by Edward , it required no other consideration of probabilities to make it natural that Lucy should be jealous ; and that she was so , her very confidence was a proof . 
What other reason for the disclosure of the affair could there be , but that Elinor might be informed by it of Lucy 's superior claims on Edward , and be taught to avoid him in future ? 
One or two meetings of this kind had taken place , without affording Elinor any chance of engaging Lucy in private , when Sir John called at the cottage one morning , to beg in the name of charity , that they would all dine with Lady Middleton that day , as he was obliged to attend the club at Exeter , and she would otherwise be quite alone , except her mother and the two Miss Steeles . 
Elinor , who foresaw a fairer opening for the point she had in view , in such a party as this was likely to be , more at liberty among themselves under the tranquil and well-bred direction of Lady Middleton than when her husband united them together in one noisy purpose , immediately accepted the invitation ; Margaret , with her mother 's permission , was equally compliant , and Marianne , though always unwilling to join any of their parties , was persuaded by her mother , who could not bear to have her seclude herself from any chance of amusement , to go likewise . 
The insipidity of the meeting was exactly such as Elinor had expected ; it produced not one novelty of thought or expression , and nothing could be less interesting than the whole of their discourse both in the dining parlour and drawing room : to the latter , the children accompanied them , and while they remained there , she was too well convinced of the impossibility of engaging Lucy 's attention to attempt it . 
The card-table was then placed , and Elinor began to wonder at herself for having ever entertained a hope of finding time for conversation at the park . 
`` Marianne can never keep long from that instrument you know , ma'am , '' said Elinor , endeavouring to smooth away the offence ; `` and I do not much wonder at it ; for it is the very best toned piano-fort I ever heard . '' 
`` Perhaps , '' continued Elinor , `` if I should happen to cut out , I may be of some use to Miss Lucy Steele , in rolling her papers for her ; and there is so much still to be done to the basket , that it must be impossible I think for her labour singly , to finish it this evening . 
`` You are very kind , '' said Lady Middleton to Elinor : `` and as you really like the work , perhaps you will be as well pleased not to cut in till another rubber , or will you take your chance now ? '' 
Elinor joyfully profited by the first of these proposals , and thus by a little of that address , which Marianne could never condescend to practise , gained her own end , and pleased Lady Middleton at the same time . 
In a firm , though cautious tone , Elinor thus began . 
Believe me , '' and Elinor spoke it with the truest sincerity , `` nothing could be farther from my intention , than to give you such an idea . 
Lucy here looked up ; but Elinor was careful in guarding her countenance from every expression that could give to her words a suspicious tendency . 
Elinor hardly knew whether to smile or sigh at this assertion . 
`` All this , '' thought Elinor , `` is very pretty ; but it can impose upon neither of us . '' 
Lucy looked at Elinor again , and was silent . 
asked Elinor . 
Elinor blushed in spite of herself . 
`` I should be always happy , '' replied Elinor , `` to shew any mark of my esteem and friendship for Mr. Ferrars ; but do not you perceive that my interest on such an occasion would be perfectly unnecessary ? 
`` No ; '' answered Elinor , with a smile , which concealed very agitated feelings , `` on such a subject I certainly will not . 
Elinor blushed for the insincerity of Edward 's future wife , and replied , `` this compliment would effectually frighten me from giving any opinion on the subject had I formed one . 
Elinor thought it wisest to make no answer to this , lest they might provoke each other to an unsuitable increase of ease and unreserve ; and was even partly determined never to mention the subject again . 
Elinor was soon called to the card-table by the conclusion of the first rubber , and the confidential discourse of the two ladies was therefore at an end , to which both of them submitted without any reluctance , for nothing had been said on either side , to make them dislike each other less than they had done before ; and Elinor sat down to the card table with the melancholy persuasion that Edward was not only without affection for the person who was to be his wife ; but that he had not even the chance of being tolerably happy in marriage , which sincere affection on her side would have given , for self-interest alone could induce a woman to keep a man to an engagement , of which she seemed so thoroughly aware that he was weary . 
From this time the subject was never revived by Elinor , and when entered on by Lucy , who seldom missed an opportunity of introducing it , and was particularly careful to inform her confidante , of her happiness whenever she received a letter from Edward , it was treated by the former with calmness and caution , and dismissed as soon as civility would allow ; for she felt such conversations to be an indulgence which Lucy did not deserve , and which were dangerous to herself . 
Elinor , without observing the varying complexion of her sister , and the animated look which spoke no indifference to the plan , immediately gave a grateful but absolute denial for both , in which she believed herself to be speaking their united inclinations . 
But my mother , my dearest , kindest mother , I feel the justice of what Elinor has urged , and if she were to be made less happy , less comfortable by our absence -- Oh ! 
no , nothing should tempt me to leave her . 
Mrs. Jennings repeated her assurance that Mrs. Dashwood could spare them perfectly well ; and Elinor , who now understood her sister , and saw to what indifference to almost every thing else , she was carried by her eagerness to be with Willoughby again , made no farther direct opposition to the plan , and merely referred it to her mother 's decision , from whom however she scarcely expected to receive any support in her endeavour to prevent a visit , which she could not approve of for Marianne , and which on her own account she had particular reasons to avoid . 
That Marianne , fastidious as she was , thoroughly acquainted with Mrs. Jennings ' manners , and invariably disgusted by them , should overlook every inconvenience of that kind , should disregard whatever must be most wounding to her irritable feelings , in her pursuit of one object , was such a proof , so strong , so full , of the importance of that object to her , as Elinor , in spite of all that had passed , was not prepared to witness . 
`` Though with your usual anxiety for our happines , '' said Elinor , `` you have been obviating every impediment to the present scheme which occurred to you , there is still one objection which , in my opinion , can not be so easily removed . '' 
`` And what , '' said Mrs. Dashwood , `` is my dear prudent Elinor going to suggest ? 
`` If Elinor is frightened away by her dislike of Mrs. Jennings , '' said Marianne , `` at least it need not prevent my accepting her invitation . 
Elinor could not help smiling at this display of indifference towards the manners of a person , to whom she had often had difficulty in persuading Marianne to behave with tolerable politeness ; and resolved within herself , that if her sister persisted in going , she would go likewise , as she did not think it proper that Marianne should be left to the sole guidance of her own judgment , or that Mrs. Jennings should be abandoned to the mercy of Marianne for all the comfort of her domestic hours . 
You will have much pleasure in being in London , and especially in being together ; and if Elinor would ever condescend to anticipate enjoyment , she would foresee it there from a variety of sources ; she would perhaps expect some from improving her acquaintance with her sister-in-law 's family . '' 
Elinor had often wished for an opportunity of attempting to weaken her mother 's dependence on the attachment of Edward and herself , that the shock might be the less when the whole truth were revealed , and now on this attack , though almost hopeless of success , she forced herself to begin her design by saying , as calmly as she could , `` I like Edward Ferrars very much , and shall always be glad to see him ; but as to the rest of the family , it is a matter of perfect indifference to me , whether I am ever known to them or not . '' 
Marianne lifted up her eyes in astonishment , and Elinor conjectured that she might as well have held her tongue . 
Elinor submitted to the arrangement which counteracted her wishes , with less reluctance than she had expected to feel . 
With regard to herself , it was now a matter of unconcern whether she went to town or not , and when she saw her mother so thoroughly pleased with the plan , and her sister exhilirated by it in look , voice , and manner , restored to all her usual animation , and elevated to more than her usual gaiety , she could not be dissatisfied with the cause , and would hardly allow herself to distrust the consequence . 
Her mother 's affliction was hardly less , and Elinor was the only one of the three , who seemed to consider the separation as any thing short of eternal . 
Elinor could not find herself in the carriage with Mrs. Jennings , and beginning a journey to London under her protection , and as her guest , without wondering at own situation , so short had their acquaintance with that lady been , so wholly unsuited were they in age and disposition , and so many had been her objections against such a measure only a few days before ! 
But these objections had all , with that happy ardour of youth which Marianne and her mother equally shared , been overcome or overlooked ; and Elinor , in spite of every occasional doubt of Willoughby 's constancy , could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation which filled the whole soul and beamed in the eyes of Marianne , without feeling how blank was her own prospect , how cheerless her own state of mind in the comparison , and how gladly she would engage in the solicitude of Marianne 's situation to have the same animating object in view , the same possibility of hope . 
Marianne 's eagerness to be gone declared her dependance on finding him there ; and Elinor was resolved not only upon gaining every new light as to his character which her own observation or the intelligence of others could give her , but likewise upon watching his behaviour to her sister with such zealous attention , as to ascertain what he was and what he meant , before many meetings had taken place . 
Should the result of her observations be unfavourable , she was determined at all events to open the eyes of her sister ; should it be otherwise , her exertions would be of a different nature -- she must then learn to avoid every selfish comparison , and banish every regret which might lessen her satisfaction in the happiness of Marianne . 
To atone for this conduct therefore , Elinor took immediate possession of the post of civility which she had assigned herself , behaved with the greatest attention to Mrs. Jennings , talked with her , laughed with her , and listened to her whenever she could ; and Mrs. Jennings on her side treated them both with all possible kindness , was solicitous on every occasion for their ease and enjoyment , and only disturbed that she could not make them choose their own dinners at the inn , nor extort a confession of their preferring salmon to cod , or boiled fowls to veal cutlets . 
As dinner was not to be ready in less than two hours from their arrival , Elinor determined to employ the interval in writing to her mother , and sat down for that purpose . 
`` I am writing home , Marianne , '' said Elinor ; `` had not you better defer your letter for a day or two ? '' 
Elinor said no more ; it immediately struck her that she must then be writing to Willoughby , and the conclusion which as instantly followed was , that however mysteriously they might wish to conduct the affair , they must be engaged . 
This conviction , though not entirely satisfactory , gave her pleasure , and she continued her letter with greater alacrity . 
Elinor thought she could distinguish a large W. in the direction , and no sooner was it complete than Marianne , ringing the bell , requested the footman who answered it , to get that letter conveyed for her to the two-penny post . 
It was a great satisfaction to Elinor that Mrs. Jennings , by being much engaged in her own room , could see little of what was passing . 
Elinor felt secure of its announcing Willoughby 's approach , and Marianne starting up moved towards the door . 
Elinor , it is Willoughby , indeed it is ! '' 
Elinor was disappointed too ; but at the same time her regard for Colonel Brandon ensured his welcome with her , and she felt particularly hurt that a man so partial to her sister should perceive that she experienced nothing but grief and disappointment in seeing him . 
She instantly saw that it was not unnoticed by him , that he even observed Marianne as she quitted the room , with such astonishment and concern , as hardly left him the recollection of what civility demanded towards herself . 
Elinor answered in some distress that she was , and then talked of head-aches , low spirits , and over fatigues ; and of every thing to which she could decently attribute her sister 's behaviour . 
He heard her with the most earnest attention , but seeming to recollect himself , said no more on the subject , and began directly to speak of his pleasure at seeing them in London , making the usual enquiries about their journey and the friends they had left behind . 
Elinor wished very much to ask whether Willoughby were then in town , but she was afraid of giving him pain by any enquiry after his rival ; and at length by way of saying something , she asked if he had been in London ever since she had seen him last . 
This , and the manner in which it was said , immediately brought back to her remembrance , all the circumstances of his quitting that place , with the uneasiness and suspicions they had caused to Mrs. Jennings , and she was fearful that he question had implied much more curiosity on the subject than she had ever felt . 
Elinor now began to make the tea , and Marianne was obliged to appear again . 
After an hour or two spent in what her mother called comfortable chat , or in other words , in every variety of inquiry concerning all their acquaintance on Mrs. Jennings 's side , and in laughter without cause on Mrs. Palmer 's , it was proposed by the latter that they should all accompany her to some shops where she had business that morning , to which Mrs. Jennings and Elinor readily consented , as having likewise some purchases to make themselves ; and Marianne , though declining it at first , was induced to go likewise . 
It was late in the morning before they returned home ; and no sooner had they entered the house than Marianne flew eagerly up stairs , and when Elinor followed , she found her turning from the table with a sorrowful countenance , which declared that no Willoughby had been there . 
said she to the footman who then entered with the parcels . 
She was answered in the negative . 
she replied . 
said she in a low and disappointed voice , as she turned away to the window . 
repeated Elinor within herself , regarding her sister with uneasiness . 
She determined after some consideration , that if appearances continued many days longer , as unpleasant as they now were , she would represent in the strongest manner to her mother the necessity of some serious inquiry into the affair . 
The former left them soon after tea to fulfil her evening engagements ; and Elinor was obliged to assist in making a whist-table for the others . 
Marianne was of no use on these occasions , as she would never learn the game , but though her time was therefore at her own disposal , the evening was by no means more productive of pleasure to her than to Elinor , for it was spent in all the anxiety of expectation and the pain of disappointment . 
`` At any rate , '' said Elinor , wishing to prevent Mrs. Jennings from seeing her sister 's thoughts as clearly as she did , `` I dare say we shall have Sir John and Lady Middleton in town by the end of next week . '' 
`` And now , '' silently conjectured Elinor , `` she will write to Combe by this day 's post . '' 
But if she did , the letter was written and sent away with a privacy which eluded all her watchfulness to ascertain the fact . 
Whatever the truth of it might be , and far as Elinor was from feeling thorough contentment about it , yet while she saw Marianne in spirits , she could not be very uncomfortable herself . 
`` Do n't you find it colder than it was in the morning , Elinor ? 
Elinor was alternately diverted and pained ; but Marianne persevered , and saw every night in the brightness of the fire , and every morning in the appearance of the atmosphere , the certain symptoms of approaching frost . 
Pleased to find herself more comfortably situated in that particular than she had expected , Elinor was very willing to compound for the want of much real enjoyment from any of their evening parties , which , whether at home or abroad , formed only for cards , could have little to amuse her . 
Colonel Brandon , who had a general invitation to the house , was with them almost every day ; he came to look at Marianne and talk to Elinor , who often derived more satisfaction from conversing with him than from any other daily occurrence , but who saw at the same time with much concern his continued regard for her sister . 
She feared it was a strengthening regard . 
It grieved her to see the earnestness with which he often watched Marianne , and his spirits were certainly worse than when at Barton . 
Elinor , rejoiced to be assured of his being in London , now ventured to say , `` depend upon it he will call again to-morrow . '' 
This event , while it raised the spirits of Elinor , restored to those of her sister , all , and more than all , their former agitation . 
From this moment her mind was never quiet ; the expectation of seeing him every hour of the day , made her unfit for anything . 
She insisted on being left behind , the next morning , when the others went out . 
Elinor 's thoughts were full of what might be passing in Berkeley street during their absence ; but a moment 's glance at her sister when they returned was enough to inform her , that Willoughby had paid no second visit there . 
said Elinor , unable to be longer silent . 
`` Nay , Elinor , this reproach from you -- you who have confidence in no one ! '' 
returned Elinor in some confusion ; `` indeed , Marianne , I have nothing to tell . '' 
Elinor , distressed by this charge of reserve in herself , which she was not at liberty to do away , knew not how , under such circumstances , to press for greater openness in Marianne . 
The invitation was accepted ; but when the hour of appointment drew near , necessary as it was in common civility to Mrs. Jennings , that they should both attend her on such a visit , Elinor had some difficulty in persuading her sister to go , for still she had seen nothing of Willoughby ; and therefore was not more indisposed for amusement abroad , than unwilling to run the risk of his calling again in her absence . 
Elinor found , when the evening was over , that disposition is not materially altered by a change of abode , for although scarcely settled in town , Sir John had contrived to collect around him , nearly twenty young people , and to amuse them with a ball . 
replied Elinor . 
Impatient in this situation to be doing something that might lead to her sister 's relief , Elinor resolved to write the next morning to her mother , and hoped by awakening her fears for the health of Marianne , to procure those inquiries which had been so long delayed ; and she was still more eagerly bent on this measure , by perceiving after breakfast on the morrow , that Marianne was again writing to Willoughby , for she could not suppose it to be to any other person . 
About the middle of the day , Mrs. Jennings went out by herself on business , and Elinor began her letter directly , while Marianne , too restless for employment , too anxious for conversation , walked from one window to the other , or sat down by the fire in melancholy meditation . 
Elinor was very earnest in her application to her mother , relating all that had passed , her suspicions of Willoughby 's inconstancy , urging her by every plea of duty and affection to demand from Marianne , an account of her real situation with respect to him . 
Elinor , persuaded that he had some communication to make in which her sister was concerned , impatiently expected its opening . 
It was not the first time of her feeling the same kind of conviction ; for more than once before , beginning with the observation of `` your sister looks unwell to-day , '' or `` your sister seems out of spirits , '' he had appeared on the point , either of disclosing , or of inquiring , something particular about her . 
After a pause of several minutes , their silence was broken , by his asking her in a voice of some agitation , when he was to congratulate her on the acquisition of a brother ? 
Elinor was not prepared for such a question , and having no answer ready , was obliged to adopt the simple and common expedient , of asking what he meant ? 
`` It can not be generally known , '' returned Elinor , `` for her own family do not know it . '' 
These words , which conveyed to Elinor , a direct avowal of his love for her sister , affected her very much . 
She was not immediately able to say anything , and even when her spirits were recovered , she debated for a short time , on the answer it would be most proper to give . 
The real state of things between Willoughby and her sister was so little known to herself , that in endeavouring to explain it , she might be as liable to say too much as too little . 
Yet as she was convinced that Marianne 's affection for Willoughby , could leave no hope of Colonel Brandon 's success , whatever the event of that affection might be , and at the same time wished to shield her conduct from censure , she thought it most prudent and kind , after some consideration , to say more than she really knew or believed . 
She acknowledged , therefore , that though she had never been informed by themselves of the terms on which they stood with each other , of their mutual affection she had no doubt , and of their correspondence she was not astonished to hear . 
He listened to her with silent attention , and on her ceasing to speak , rose directly from his seat , and after saying in a voice of emotion , `` to your sister I wish all imaginable happiness ; to Willoughby that he may endeavour to deserve her , '' -- took leave , and went away . 
Elinor derived no comfortable feelings from this conversation , to lessen the uneasiness of her mind on other points ; she was left , on the contrary , with a melancholy impression of Colonel Brandon 's unhappiness , and was prevented even from wishing it removed , by her anxiety for the very event that must confirm it . 
Nothing occurred during the next three or four days , to make Elinor regret what she had done , in applying to her mother ; for Willoughby neither came nor wrote . 
After some time spent in saying little and doing less , Lady Middleton sat down to cassino , and as Marianne was not in spirits for moving about , she and Elinor , luckily succeeding to chairs , placed themselves at no great distance from the table . 
They had not remained in this manner long , before Elinor perceived Willoughby , standing within a few yards of them , in earnest conversation , with a very fashionable looking young woman . 
Elinor turned involuntarily to Marianne , to see whether it could be unobserved by her . 
At that moment she first perceived him , and her whole countenance glowing with sudden delight , she would have moved towards him instantly , had not her sister caught hold of her . 
she exclaimed , `` he is there -- he is there . 
`` Pray , pray be composed , '' cried Elinor , `` and do not betray what you feel to every body present . 
This however was more than she could believe herself , and to be composed at such a moment was not only beyond the reach of Marianne , it was beyond her wish . 
He approached , and addressing himself rather to Elinor than Marianne , as if wishing to avoid her eye , and determined not to observe her attitude , inquired in a hurried manner after Mrs. Dashwood , and asked how long they had been in town . 
Elinor was robbed of all presence of mind by such an address , and was unable to say a word . 
But the feelings of her sister were instantly expressed . 
Her face was crimsoned over , and she exclaimed in a voice of the greatest emotion , `` Good God ! 
He could not then avoid it , but her touch seemed painful to him , and he held her hand only for a moment . 
Elinor watched his countenance and saw its expression becoming more tranquil . 
Marianne , now looking dreadfully white , and unable to stand , sunk into her chair , and Elinor , expecting every moment to see her faint , tried to screen her from the observation of others , while reviving her with lavendar water . 
`` Go to him , Elinor , '' she cried , as soon as she could speak , `` and force him to come to me . 
With difficulty however could she prevent her from following him herself ; and to persuade her to check her agitation , to wait , at least , with the appearance of composure , till she might speak to him with more privacy and more effect , was impossible ; for Marianne continued incessantly to give way in a low voice to the misery of her feelings , by exclamations of wretchedness . 
In a short time Elinor saw Willoughby quit the room by the door towards the staircase , and telling Marianne that he was gone , urged the impossibility of speaking to him again that evening , as a fresh argument for her to be calm . 
In this situation , Elinor , roused from sleep by her agitation and sobs , first perceived her ; and after observing her for a few moments with silent anxiety , said , in a tone of the most considerate gentleness , `` Marianne , may I ask ? '' 
-- `` No , Elinor , '' she replied , `` ask nothing ; you will soon know all . '' 
The sort of desperate calmness with which this was said , lasted no longer than while she spoke , and was immediately followed by a return of the same excessive affliction . 
It was some minutes before she could go on with her letter , and the frequent bursts of grief which still obliged her , at intervals , to withhold her pen , were proofs enough of her feeling how more than probable it was that she was writing for the last time to Willoughby . 
Elinor paid her every quiet and unobtrusive attention in her power ; and she would have tried to sooth and tranquillize her still more , had not Marianne entreated her , with all the eagerness of the most nervous irritability , not to speak to her for the world . 
At breakfast she neither ate , nor attempted to eat any thing ; and Elinor 's attention was then all employed ; not in urging her , not in pitying her , nor in appearing to regard her , but in endeavouring to engage Mrs. Jennings 's notice entirely to herself . 
Elinor , who saw as plainly by this , as if she had seen the direction , that it must come from Willoughby , felt immediately such a sickness at heart as made her hardly able to hold up her head , and sat in such a general tremour as made her fear it impossible to escape Mrs. Jennings 's notice . 
Of Elinor 's distress , she was too busily employed in measuring lengths of worsted for her rug , to see any thing at all ; and calmly continuing her talk , as soon as Marianne disappeared , she said , `` Upon my word I never saw a young woman so desperately in love in my life ! 
Elinor , though never less disposed to speak than at that moment , obliged herself to answer such an attack as this , and , therefore , trying to smile , replied , `` And have you really , Ma'am , talked yourself into a persuasion of my sister 's being engaged to Mr. Willoughby ? 
`` Indeed , Ma'am , '' said Elinor , very seriously , `` you are mistaken . 
Mrs. Jennings laughed again , but Elinor had not spirits to say more , and eager at all events to know what Willoughby had written , hurried away to their room , where , on opening the door , she saw Marianne stretched on the bed , almost choaked by grief , one letter in her hand , and two or three others lying by her . 
Elinor drew near , but without saying a word ; and seating herself on the bed , took her hand , kissed her affectionately several times , and then gave way to a burst of tears , which at first was scarcely less violent than Marianne 's . 
The latter , though unable to speak , seemed to feel all the tenderness of this behaviour , and after some time thus spent in joint affliction , she put all the letters into Elinor 's hands ; and then covering her face with her handkerchief , almost screamed with agony . 
Elinor , who knew that such grief , shocking as it was to witness it , must have its course , watched by her till this excess of suffering had somewhat spent itself , and then turning eagerly to Willoughby 's letter , read as follows : Bond Street , January . 
In her earnest meditations on the contents of the letter , on the depravity of that mind which could dictate it , and , probably , on the very different mind of a very different person , who had no other connection whatever with the affair than what her heart gave him with every thing that passed , Elinor forgot the immediate distress of her sister , forgot that she had three letters on her lap yet unread , and so entirely forgot how long she had been in the room , that when , on hearing a carriage drive up to the door , she went to the window to see who could be coming so unreasonably early , she was all astonishment to perceive Mrs. Jennings 's chariot , which she knew had not been ordered till one . 
Mrs. Jennings , with a thoroughly good-humoured concern for its cause , admitted the excuse most readily , and Elinor , after seeing her safe off , returned to Marianne , whom she found attempting to rise from the bed , and whom she reached just in time to prevent her from falling on the floor , faint and giddy from a long want of proper rest and food ; for it was many days since she had any appetite , and many nights since she had really slept ; and now , when her mind was no longer supported by the fever of suspense , the consequence of all this was felt in an aching head , a weakened stomach , and a general nervous faintness . 
A glass of wine , which Elinor procured for her directly , made her more comfortable , and she was at last able to express some sense of her kindness , by saying , `` Poor Elinor ! 
`` I only wish , '' replied her sister , `` there were any thing I could do , which might be of comfort to you . '' 
Elinor , I am miserable indeed , '' before her voice was entirely lost in sobs . 
Elinor could no longer witness this torrent of unresisted grief in silence . 
`` Exert yourself , dear Marianne , '' she cried , `` if you would not kill yourself and all who love you . 
Happy , happy Elinor , you can not have an idea of what I suffer . '' 
`` Many , many circumstances , '' said Elinor , solemnly . 
Elinor said no more , and turning again to the three letters which now raised a much stronger curiosity than before , directly ran over the contents of all . 
The first , which was what her sister had sent him on their arrival in town , was to this effect . 
That such letters , so full of affection and confidence , could have been so answered , Elinor , for Willoughby 's sake , would have been unwilling to believe . 
But her condemnation of him did not blind her to the impropriety of their having been written at all ; and she was silently grieving over the imprudence which had hazarded such unsolicited proofs of tenderness , not warranted by anything preceding , and most severely condemned by the event , when Marianne , perceiving that she had finished the letters , observed to her that they contained nothing but what any one would have written in the same situation . 
`` I can believe it , '' said Elinor ; `` but unfortunately he did not feel the same . '' 
`` He did feel the same , Elinor -- for weeks and weeks he felt it . 
For a moment or two she could say no more ; but when this emotion had passed away , she added , in a firmer tone , `` Elinor , I have been cruelly used ; but not by Willoughby . '' 
Elinor would not contend , and only replied , `` Whoever may have been so detestably your enemy , let them be cheated of their malignant triumph , my dear sister , by seeing how nobly the consciousness of your own innocence and good intentions supports your spirits . 
Elinor , Elinor , they who suffer little may be proud and independent as they like -- may resist insult , or return mortification -- but I can not . 
Elinor was employed in walking thoughtfully from the fire to the window , from the window to the fire , without knowing that she received warmth from one , or discerned objects through the other ; and Marianne , seated at the foot of the bed , with her head leaning against one of its posts , again took up Willoughby 's letter , and after shuddering over every sentence , exclaimed -- `` It is too much ! 
Elinor , nothing can . 
-- Elinor , can he be justified ? '' 
`` Elinor , I must go home . 
Elinor advised her to lie down again , and for a moment she did so ; but no attitude could give her ease ; and in restless pain of mind and body she moved from one posture to another , till growing more and more hysterical , her sister could with difficulty keep her on the bed at all , and for some time was fearful of being constrained to call for assistance . 
Some lavender drops , however , which she was at length persuaded to take , were of use ; and from that time till Mrs. Jennings returned , she continued on the bed quiet and motionless . 
Elinor even advised her against it . 
Elinor , pleased to have her governed for a moment by such a motive , though believing it hardly possible that she could sit out the dinner , said no more ; and adjusting her dress for her as well as she could while Marianne still remained on the bed , was ready to assist her into the dining room as soon as they were summoned to it . 
Elinor , who did justice to Mrs. Jennings 's kindness , though its effusions were often distressing , and sometimes almost ridiculous , made her those acknowledgments , and returned her those civilities , which her sister could not make or return for herself . 
Had not Elinor , in the sad countenance of her sister , seen a check to all mirth , she could have been entertained by Mrs. Jennings 's endeavours to cure a disappointment in love , by a variety of sweetmeats and olives , and a good fire . 
Elinor , for her sister 's sake , could not press the subject farther , and she hoped it was not required of her for Willoughby 's ; since , though Marianne might lose much , he could gain very little by the inforcement of the real truth . 
`` Aye , if we can but do that , Ma'am , '' said Elinor , `` we shall do very well with or without Colonel Brandon . '' 
And then rising , she went away to join Marianne , whom she found , as she expected , in her own room , leaning , in silent misery , over the small remains of a fire which , till Elinor 's entrance , had been her only light . 
`` You had better leave me , '' was all the notice that her sister received from her . 
`` I will leave you , '' said Elinor , `` if you will go to bed . '' 
But this , from the momentary perverseness of impatient suffering , she at first refused to do . 
Her sister 's earnest , though gentle persuasion , however , soon softened her to compliance , and Elinor saw her lay her aching head on the pillow , and saw her , as she hoped , in a way to get some quiet rest before she left her . 
In the drawing-room , whither she then repaired , she was soon joined by Mrs. Jennings , with a wine-glass , full of something , in her hand . 
`` My dear , '' said she , entering , `` I have just recollected that I have some of the finest old Constantia wine in the house , that ever was tasted , so I have brought a glass of it for your sister . 
`` Dear Ma'am , '' replied Elinor , smiling at the difference of the complaints for which it was recommended , `` how good you are ! 
Mrs. Jennings , though regretting that she had not been five minutes earlier , was satisfied with the compromise ; and Elinor , as she swallowed the chief of it , reflected that , though its good effects on a cholicky gout were , at present , of little importance to her , its healing powers on a disappointed heart might be as reasonably tried on herself as on her sister . 
Colonel Brandon came in while the party were at tea , and by his manner of looking round the room for Marianne , Elinor immediately fancied that he neither expected , nor wished to see her there , and , in short , that he was already aware of what occasioned her absence . 
Mrs. Jennings was not struck by the same thought ; for , soon after his entrance , she walked across the room to the tea-table where Elinor presided , and whispered -- `` The Colonel looks as grave as ever you see . 
He shortly afterwards drew a chair close to her 's , and , with a look which perfectly assured her of his good information , inquired after her sister . 
`` Marianne is not well , '' said she . 
`` You mean , '' answered Elinor , with forced calmness , `` Mr. Willoughby 's marriage with Miss Grey . 
Elinor encouraged her as much as possible to talk of what she felt ; and before breakfast was ready , they had gone through the subject again and again ; with the same steady conviction and affectionate counsel on Elinor 's side , the same impetuous feelings and varying opinions on Marianne 's , as before . 
Elinor had not needed this to be assured of the injustice to which her sister was often led in her opinion of others , by the irritable refinement of her own mind , and the too great importance placed by her on the delicacies of a strong sensibility , and the graces of a polished manner . 
Her mother still confident of their engagement , and relying as warmly as ever on his constancy , had only been roused by Elinor 's application , to intreat from Marianne greater openness towards them both ; and this , with such tenderness towards her , such affection for Willoughby , and such a conviction of their future happiness in each other , that she wept with agony through the whole of it . 
Elinor , unable herself to determine whether it were better for Marianne to be in London or at Barton , offered no counsel of her own except of patience till their mother 's wishes could be known ; and at length she obtained her sister 's consent to wait for that knowledge . 
Mrs. Jennings left them earlier than usual ; for she could not be easy till the Middletons and Palmers were able to grieve as much as herself ; and positively refusing Elinor 's offered attendance , went out alone for the rest of the morning . 
Elinor , with a very heavy heart , aware of the pain she was going to communicate , and perceiving by Marianne 's letter how ill she had succeeded in laying any foundation for it , then sat down to write her mother an account of what had passed , and intreat her directions for the future ; while Marianne , who came into the drawing-room on Mrs. Jennings 's going away , remained fixed at the table where Elinor wrote , watching the advancement of her pen , grieving over her for the hardship of such a task , and grieving still more fondly over its effect on her mother . 
cried Elinor . 
The event proved her conjecture right , though it was founded on injustice and error , for Colonel Brandon did come in ; and Elinor , who was convinced that solicitude for Marianne brought him thither , and who saw that solicitude in his disturbed and melancholy look , and in his anxious though brief inquiry after her , could not forgive her sister for esteeming him so lightly . 
`` I understand you , '' said Elinor . 
`` Indeed , '' answered Elinor , `` I have not forgotten it . '' 
Elinor , affected by his relation , and still more by his distress , could not speak . 
He saw her concern , and coming to her , took her hand , pressed it , and kissed it with grateful respect . 
Again he stopped to recover himself ; and Elinor spoke her feelings in an exclamation of tender concern , at the fate of his unfortunate friend . 
cried Elinor , `` could it be ! 
exclaimed Elinor . 
Elinor 's thanks followed this speech with grateful earnestness ; attended too with the assurance of her expecting material advantage to Marianne , from the communication of what had passed . 
`` I have been more pained , '' said she , `` by her endeavours to acquit him than by all the rest ; for it irritates her mind more than the most perfect conviction of his unworthiness can do . 
Have you , '' she continued , after a short silence , `` ever seen Mr. Willoughby since you left him at Barton ? '' 
Elinor , startled by his manner , looked at him anxiously , saying , `` What ! 
Elinor sighed over the fancied necessity of this ; but to a man and a soldier , she presumed not to censure it . 
Recollecting , soon afterwards , that he was probably dividing Elinor from her sister , he put an end to his visit , receiving from her again the same grateful acknowledgments , and leaving her full of compassion and esteem for him . 
But though this behaviour assured Elinor that the conviction of his guilt was carried home to her mind , though she saw with satisfaction the effect of it , in her no longer avoiding Colonel Brandon when he called , in her speaking to him , even voluntarily speaking , with a kind of compassionate respect , and though she saw her spirits less violently irritated than before , she did not see her less wretched . 
Her mind did become settled , but it was settled in a gloomy dejection . 
She felt the loss of Willoughby 's character yet more heavily than she had felt the loss of his heart ; his seduction and desertion of Miss Williams , the misery of that poor girl , and the doubt of what his designs might once have been on herself , preyed altogether so much on her spirits , that she could not bring herself to speak of what she felt even to Elinor ; and brooding over her sorrows in silence , gave more pain to her sister than could have been communicated by the most open and most frequent confession of them . 
To give the feelings or the language of Mrs. Dashwood on receiving and answering Elinor 's letter , would be only to give a repetition of what her daughters had already felt and said ; of a disappointment hardly less painful than Marianne 's , and an indignation even greater than Elinor 's . 
Long letters from her , quickly succeeding each other , arrived to tell all that she suffered and thought ; to express her anxious solicitude for Marianne , and entreat she would bear up with fortitude under this misfortune . 
But it was a matter of great consolation to her , that what brought evil to herself would bring good to her sister ; and Elinor , on the other hand , suspecting that it would not be in her power to avoid Edward entirely , comforted herself by thinking , that though their longer stay would therefore militate against her own happiness , it would be better for Marianne than an immediate return into Devonshire . 
Elinor wished that the same forbearance could have extended towards herself , but that was impossible , and she was obliged to listen day after day to the indignation of them all . 
The rest of Mrs. Palmer 's sympathy was shewn in procuring all the particulars in her power of the approaching marriage , and communicating them to Elinor . 
She could soon tell at what coachmaker 's the new carriage was building , by what painter Mr. Willoughby 's portrait was drawn , and at what warehouse Miss Grey 's clothes might be seen . 
The calm and polite unconcern of Lady Middleton on the occasion was an happy relief to Elinor 's spirits , oppressed as they often were by the clamorous kindness of the others . 
It was a great comfort to her , to be sure of exciting no interest in one person at least among their circle of friends ; a great comfort to know that there was one who would meet her without feeling any curiosity after particulars , or any anxiety for her sister 's health . 
Every qualification is raised at times , by the circumstances of the moment , to more than its real value ; and she was sometimes worried down by officious condolence to rate good-breeding as more indispensable to comfort than good-nature . 
These assured him that his exertion had produced an increase of good-will towards himself , and these gave Elinor hopes of its being farther augmented hereafter ; but Mrs. Jennings , who knew nothing of all this , who knew only that the Colonel continued as grave as ever , and that she could neither prevail on him to make the offer himself , nor commission her to make it for him , began , at the end of two days , to think that , instead of Midsummer , they would not be married till Michaelmas , and by the end of a week that it would not be a match at all . 
Early in February , within a fortnight from the receipt of Willoughby 's letter , Elinor had the painful office of informing her sister that he was married . 
She had taken care to have the intelligence conveyed to herself , as soon as it was known that the ceremony was over , as she was desirous that Marianne should not receive the first notice of it from the public papers , which she saw her eagerly examining every morning . 
The Willoughbys left town as soon as they were married ; and Elinor now hoped , as there could be no danger of her seeing either of them , to prevail on her sister , who had never yet left the house since the blow first fell , to go out again by degrees as she had done before . 
Elinor only was sorry to see them . 
Their presence always gave her pain , and she hardly knew how to make a very gracious return to the overpowering delight of Lucy in finding her still in town . 
Elinor perfectly understood her , and was forced to use all her self-command to make it appear that she did not . 
Elinor would not humour her by farther opposition . 
Elinor , with great civility , declined the proposal . 
Her sister was perhaps laid down upon the bed , or in her dressing gown , and therefore not able to come to them . 
Elinor began to find this impertinence too much for her temper ; but she was saved the trouble of checking it , by Lucy 's sharp reprimand , which now , as on many occasions , though it did not give much sweetness to the manners of one sister , was of advantage in governing those of the other . 
She expressly conditioned however , for paying no visits , and would not do more than accompany them to Gray 's in Sackville street , where Elinor was carrying on a negociation for the exchange of a few old-fashioned jewels of her mother . 
All that could be done was , to sit down at that end of the counter which seemed to promise the quickest succession ; one gentleman only was standing there , and it is probable that Elinor was not without hopes of exciting his politeness to a quicker dispatch . 
He was giving orders for a toothpickcase for himself , and till its size , shape , and ornaments were determined , all of which , after examining and debating for a quarter of an hour over every toothpick-case in the shop , were finally arranged by his own inventive fancy , he had no leisure to bestow any other attention on the two ladies , than what was comprised in three or four very broad stares ; a kind of notice which served to imprint on Elinor , the remembrance of a person and face , of strong , natural , sterling insignificance , though adorned in the first stile of fashion . 
Elinor lost no time in bringing her business forward , and was on the point of concluding it , when another gentleman presented himself at her side . 
She turned her eyes towards his face , and found him with some surprise to be her brother . 
Elinor found that he and Fanny had been in town two days . 
Elinor did feel a little ashamed of her brother ; and was not sorry to be spared the necessity of answering him , by the arrival of Mrs. Jennings 's servant , who came to tell her that his mistress waited for them at the door . 
After staying with them half an hour , he asked Elinor to walk with him to Conduit-street , and introduce him to Sir John and Lady Middleton . 
He seems a most gentlemanlike man ; and I think , Elinor , I may congratulate you on the prospect of a very respectable establishment in life . '' 
`` Two thousand a-year ; '' and then working himself up to a pitch of enthusiastic generosity , he added , `` Elinor , I wish with all heart , it were twice as much , for your sake . '' 
`` Indeed I believe you , '' replied Elinor , `` but I am very sure that Colonel Brandon has not the smallest wish of marrying me . '' 
`` You are mistaken , Elinor ; you are very much mistaken . 
Elinor would not vouchsafe any answer . 
`` Is Mr. Edward Ferrars , '' said Elinor , with resolution , `` going to be married ? '' 
He paused for her assent and compassion ; and she forced herself to say , `` Your expences both in town and country must certainly be considerable , but your income is a large one . '' 
Elinor could only smile . 
`` Certainly , '' said Elinor ; `` and assisted by her liberality , I hope you may yet live to be in easy circumstances . '' 
Elinor kept her concern and her censure to herself ; and was very thankful that Marianne was not present , to share the provocation . 
Having now said enough to make his poverty clear , and to do away the necessity of buying a pair of ear-rings for each of his sisters , in his next visit at Gray 's , his thoughts took a cheerfuller turn , and he began to congratulate Elinor on having such a friend as Mrs. Jennings . 
But , my dear Elinor , what is the matter with Marianne ? 
I know very little of Dorsetshire , but , my dear Elinor , I shall be exceedingly glad to know more of it ; and I think I can answer for your having Fanny and myself among the earliest and best pleased of your visitors . '' 
Elinor tried very seriously to convince him that there was no likelihood of her marrying Colonel Brandon ; but it was an expectation of too much pleasure to himself to be relinquished , and he was really resolved on seeking an intimacy with that gentleman , and promoting the marriage by every possible attention . 
Elinor wanted very much to know , though she did not chuse to ask , whether Edward was then in town ; but nothing would have induced Fanny voluntarily to mention his name before her , till able to tell her that his marriage with Miss Morton was resolved on , or till her husband 's expectations on Colonel Brandon were answered ; because she believed them still so very much attached to each other , that they could not be too sedulously divided in word and deed on every occasion . 
Lucy came very shortly to claim Elinor 's compassion on being unable to see Edward , though he had arrived in town with Mr. and Mrs. Dashwood . 
Elinor was pleased that he had called ; and still more pleased that she had missed him . 
They were to meet Mrs. Ferrars ; but Elinor could not learn whether her sons were to be of the party . 
The expectation of seeing her , however , was enough to make her interested in the engagement ; for though she could now meet Edward 's mother without that strong anxiety which had once promised to attend such an introduction , though she could now see her with perfect indifference , as to her opinion of herself , her desire of being in company with Mrs. Ferrars , her curiosity to know what she was like , was as lively as ever . 
On Elinor its effect was very different . 
-- Elinor could have given her immediate relief by suggesting the possibility of its being Miss Morton 's mother , rather than her own , whom they were about to behold ; but instead of doing that , she assured her , and with great sincerity , that she did pity her , -- to the utter amazement of Lucy , who , though really uncomfortable herself , hoped at least to be an object of irrepressible envy to Elinor . 
Elinor could not now be made unhappy by this behaviour . 
-- A few months ago it would have hurt her exceedingly ; but it was not in Mrs. Ferrars 's power to distress her by it now ; -- and the difference of her manners to the Miss Steeles , a difference which seemed purposely made to humble her more , only amused her . 
Elinor , having once delivered her opinion on William 's side , by which she offended Mrs. Ferrars and Fanny still more , did not see the necessity of enforcing it by any farther assertion ; and Marianne , when called on for her 's , offended them all , by declaring that she had no opinion to give , as she had never thought about it . 
Before her removing from Norland , Elinor had painted a very pretty pair of screens for her sister-in-law , which being now just mounted and brought home , ornamented her present drawing-room : and these screens , catching the eye of John Dashwood on his following the other gentlemen into the room , were officiously handed by him to Colonel Brandon for his admiration . 
Mrs. Ferrars , not aware of their being Elinor 's work , particularly requested to look at them ; and after they had received the gratifying testimony of Lady Middleton 's approbation , Fanny presented them to her mother , considerately informing her at the same time , that they were done by Miss Dashwood . 
-- She was already greatly displeased with Mrs. Ferrars ; and such ill-timed praise of another , at Elinor 's expence , though she had not any notion of what was principally meant by it , provoked her immediately to say with warmth , `` This is admiration of a very particular kind ! 
-- it is Elinor of whom we think and speak . '' 
And so saying , she took the screens out of her sister-in-law 's hands , to admire them herself as they ought to be admired . 
Elinor was much more hurt by Marianne 's warmth , than she had been by what produced it ; but Colonel Brandon 's eyes , as they were fixed on Marianne , declared that he noticed only what was amiable in it , the affectionate heart which could not bear to see a sister slighted in the smallest point . 
The cold insolence of Mrs. Ferrars 's general behaviour to her sister , seemed , to her , to foretel such difficulties and distresses to Elinor , as her own wounded heart taught her to think of with horror ; and urged by a strong impulse of affectionate sensibility , she moved , after a moment , to her sister 's chair , and putting one arm round her neck , and one cheek close to her 's , said in a low , but eager , voice , `` Dear , dear Elinor , do n't mind them . 
She could say no more ; her spirits were quite overcome , and hiding her face on Elinor 's shoulder , she burst into tears . 
said her brother to Colonel Brandon in a low voice , as soon as he could secure his attention , -- `` She has not such good health as her sister , -- she is very nervous , -- she has not Elinor 's constitution ; -- and one must allow that there is something very trying to a young woman who has been a beauty , in the loss of her personal attractions . 
You would not think it perhaps , but Marianne was remarkably handsome a few months ago ; quite as handsome as Elinor . 
Elinor 's curiosity to see Mrs. Ferrars was satisfied . 
-- She had found in her every thing that could tend to make a farther connection between the families , undesirable . 
-- She had seen enough of her pride , her meanness , and her determined prejudice against herself , to comprehend all the difficulties that must have perplexed the engagement , and retarded the marriage , of Edward and herself , had he been otherwise free ; -- and she had seen almost enough to be thankful for her own sake , that one greater obstacle preserved her from suffering under any other of Mrs. Ferrars 's creation , preserved her from all dependence upon her caprice , or any solicitude for her good opinion . 
She wondered that Lucy 's spirits could be so very much elevated by the civility of Mrs. Ferrars ; -- that her interest and her vanity should so very much blind her , as to make the attention which seemed only paid her because she was not Elinor , appear a compliment to herself -- or to allow her to derive encouragement from a preference only given her , because her real situation was unknown . 
But that it was so , had not only been declared by Lucy 's eyes at the time , but was declared over again the next morning more openly , for at her particular desire , Lady Middleton set her down in Berkeley-street on the chance of seeing Elinor alone , to tell her how happy she was . 
Elinor wished to talk of something else , but Lucy still pressed her to own that she had reason for her happiness ; and Elinor was obliged to go on . 
-- `` Undoubtedly , if they had known your engagement , '' said she , `` nothing could be more flattering than their treatment of you ; -- but as that was not the case '' -- `` I guessed you would say so '' -- replied Lucy quickly -- `` but there was no reason in the world why Mrs. Ferrars should seem to like me , if she did not , and her liking me is every thing . 
To this , Elinor had no answer to make , and did not attempt any . 
-- Elinor tried to make a civil answer , though doubting her own success . 
But Elinor would not give her any encouragement to hope that she should tell her sister . 
Elinor was prevented from making any reply to this civil triumph , by the door 's being thrown open , the servant 's announcing Mr. Ferrars , and Edward 's immediately walking in . 
But Elinor had more to do ; and so anxious was she , for his sake and her own , to do it well , that she forced herself , after a moment 's recollection , to welcome him , with a look and manner that were almost easy , and almost open ; and another struggle , another effort still improved them . 
She would not allow the presence of Lucy , nor the consciousness of some injustice towards herself , to deter her from saying that she was happy to see him , and that she had very much regretted being from home , when he called before in Berkeley-street . 
Her manners gave some re-assurance to Edward , and he had courage enough to sit down ; but his embarrassment still exceeded that of the ladies in a proportion , which the case rendered reasonable , though his sex might make it rare ; for his heart had not the indifference of Lucy 's , nor could his conscience have quite the ease of Elinor 's . 
Lucy , with a demure and settled air , seemed determined to make no contribution to the comfort of the others , and would not say a word ; and almost every thing that was said ; proceeded from Elinor , who was obliged to volunteer all the information about her mother 's health , their coming to town , & c. which Edward ought to have enquired about , but never did . 
Her exertions did not stop here ; for she soon afterwards felt herself so heroically disposed as to determine , under pretence of fetching Marianne , to leave the others by themselves ; and she really did it , and that in the handsomest manner , for she loitered away several minutes on the landing-place , with the most high-minded fortitude , before she went to her sister . 
Again they all sat down , and for a moment or two all were silent ; while Marianne was looking with the most speaking tenderness , sometimes at Edward and sometimes at Elinor , regretting only that their delight in each other should be checked by Lucy 's unwelcome presence . 
Elinor is well , you see . 
This remark was not calculated to make Edward or Elinor more easy , nor to conciliate the good will of Lucy , who looked up at Marianne with no very benignant expression . 
`` I think , Elinor , '' she presently added , `` we must employ Edward to take care of us in our return to Barton . 
Elinor was very angry , but Marianne seemed entirely insensible of the sting ; for she calmly replied , `` Not so , indeed ; for , seriously speaking , I am very sure that conscience only kept Edward from Harley-street . 
Marianne looked at her steadily , and said , `` You know , Elinor , that this is a kind of talking which I can not bear . 
She then left the room ; and Elinor dared not follow her to say more , for bound as she was , by her promise of secrecy to Lucy , she could give no information that would convince Marianne ; and painful as the consequences of her still continuing in an error might be , she was obliged to submit to it . 
Though nothing could be more polite than Lady Middleton 's behaviour to Elinor and Marianne , she did not really like them at all . 
But this conciliation was not granted ; for though she often threw out expressions of pity for her sister to Elinor , and more than once dropt a reflection on the inconstancy of beaux before Marianne , no effect was produced , but a look of indifference from the former , or of disgust in the latter . 
The impertinence of these kind of scrutinies , moreover , was generally concluded with a compliment , which though meant as its douceur , was considered by Marianne as the greatest impertinence of all ; for after undergoing an examination into the value and make of her gown , the colour of her shoes , and the arrangement of her hair , she was almost sure of being told that upon `` her word she looked vastly smart , and she dared to say would make a great many conquests . '' 
As Elinor was neither musical , nor affecting to be so , she made no scruple of turning away her eyes from the grand pianoforte , whenever it suited her , and unrestrained even by the presence of a harp , and a violoncello , would fix them at pleasure on any other object in the room . 
In one of these excursive glances she perceived among a group of young men , the very he , who had given them a lecture on toothpick-cases at Gray 's . 
She perceived him soon afterwards looking at herself , and speaking familiarly to her brother ; and had just determined to find out his name from the latter , when they both came towards her , and Mr. Dashwood introduced him to her as Mr. Robert Ferrars . 
He addressed her with easy civility , and twisted his head into a bow which assured her as plainly as words could have done , that he was exactly the coxcomb she had heard him described to be by Lucy . 
Elinor would not oppose his opinion , because whatever might be her general estimation of the advantage of a public school , she could not think of Edward 's abode in Mr. Pratt 's family , with any satisfaction . 
Elinor set him right as to its situation , and it seemed rather surprising to him that anybody could live in Devonshire , without living near Dawlish . 
Elinor agreed to it all , for she did not think he deserved the compliment of rational opposition . 
He saw the necessity of inviting the Miss Steeles immediately , and his conscience was pacified by the resolution of inviting his sisters another year ; at the same time , however , slyly suspecting that another year would make the invitation needless , by bringing Elinor to town as Colonel Brandon 's wife , and Marianne as their visitor . 
When the note was shewn to Elinor , as it was within ten minutes after its arrival , it gave her , for the first time , some share in the expectations of Lucy ; for such a mark of uncommon kindness , vouchsafed on so short an acquaintance , seemed to declare that the good will towards her arose from something more than merely malice against herself ; and might be brought , by time and address , to do every thing that Lucy wished . 
The Miss Steeles removed to Harley-street , and all that reached Elinor of their influence there , strengthened her expectation of the event . 
About the third or fourth morning after their being thus re-settled in Berkeley-street , Mrs. Jennings , on returning from her ordinary visit to Mrs. Palmer , entered the drawing-room , where Elinor was sitting by herself , with an air of such hurrying importance as prepared her to hear something wonderful ; and giving her time only to form that idea , began directly to justify it by saying , `` Lord ! 
Here Mrs. Jennings ceased , and as Elinor had had time enough to collect her thoughts , she was able to give such an answer , and make such observations , as the subject might naturally be supposed to produce . 
-- Happy to find that she was not suspected of any extraordinary interest in it ; that Mrs. Jennings -LRB- as she had of late often hoped might be the case -RRB- had ceased to imagine her at all attached to Edward ; and happy above all the rest , in the absence of Marianne , she felt very well able to speak of the affair without embarrassment , and to give her judgment , as she believed , with impartiality on the conduct of every one concerned in it . 
As Mrs. Jennings could talk on no other subject , Elinor soon saw the necessity of preparing Marianne for its discussion . 
-- No time was to be lost in undeceiving her , in making her acquainted with the real truth , and in endeavouring to bring her to hear it talked of by others , without betraying that she felt any uneasiness for her sister , or any resentment against Edward . 
Elinor 's office was a painful one . 
-- She was going to remove what she really believed to be her sister 's chief consolation , -- to give such particulars of Edward , as she feared would ruin him for ever in her good opinion , -- and to make Marianne , by a resemblance in their situations which to her fancy would seem strong , feel all her own disappointment over again . 
But unwelcome as such a task must be , it was necessary to be done , and Elinor therefore hastened to perform it . 
She was very far from wishing to dwell on her own feelings , or to represent herself as suffering much , any otherwise than as the self-command she had practised since her first knowledge of Edward 's engagement , might suggest a hint of what was practicable to Marianne . 
Elinor was to be the comforter of others in her own distresses , no less than in theirs ; and all the comfort that could be given by assurances of her own composure of mind , and a very earnest vindication of Edward from every charge but of imprudence , was readily offered . 
Edward seemed a second Willoughby ; and acknowledging as Elinor did , that she had loved him most sincerely , could she feel less than herself ! 
She would not even admit it to have been natural ; and Elinor left her to be convinced that it was so , by that which only could convince her , a better knowledge of mankind . 
Her first communication had reached no farther than to state the fact of the engagement , and the length of time it had existed . 
The first question on her side , which led to farther particulars , was , `` How long has this been known to you , Elinor ? 
-- Elinor confirmed it . 
-- `` I have very often wished to undeceive yourself and my mother , '' added Elinor ; `` and once or twice I have attempted it ; -- but without betraying my trust , I never could have convinced you . '' 
Elinor , '' she cried , `` you have made me hate myself for ever . 
In such a frame of mind as she was now in , Elinor had no difficulty in obtaining from her whatever promise she required ; and at her request , Marianne engaged never to speak of the affair to any one with the least appearance of bitterness ; -- to meet Lucy without betraying the smallest increase of dislike to her ; -- and even to see Edward himself , if chance should bring them together , without any diminution of her usual cordiality . 
-- Such advances towards heroism in her sister , made Elinor feel equal to any thing herself . 
Marianne sighed out her similar apprehension ; and Elinor 's heart wrung for the feelings of Edward , while braving his mother 's threats , for a woman who could not reward him . 
Elinor 's heart thanked her for such kindness towards Edward , though she could not forbear smiling at the form of it . 
Marianne 's indignation burst forth as soon as he quitted the room ; and as her vehemence made reserve impossible in Elinor , and unnecessary in Mrs. Jennings , they all joined in a very spirited critique upon the party . 
Mrs. Jennings was very warm in her praise of Edward 's conduct , but only Elinor and Marianne understood its true merit . 
Elinor gloried in his integrity ; and Marianne forgave all his offences in compassion for his punishment . 
Elinor avoided it upon principle , as tending to fix still more upon her thoughts , by the too warm , too positive assurances of Marianne , that belief of Edward 's continued affection for herself , which she rather wished to do away ; and Marianne 's courage soon failed her , in trying to converse upon a topic which always left her more dissatisfied with herself than ever , by the comparison it necessarily produced between Elinor 's conduct and her own . 
She felt all the force of that comparison ; but not as her sister had hoped , to urge her to exertion now ; she felt it with all the pain of continual self-reproach , regretted most bitterly that she had never exerted herself before ; but it brought only the torture of penitence , without the hope of amendment . 
Her mind was so much weakened that she still fancied present exertion impossible , and therefore it only dispirited her more . 
Mrs. Jennings and Elinor were of the number ; but Marianne , who knew that the Willoughbys were again in town , and had a constant dread of meeting them , chose rather to stay at home , than venture into so public a place . 
An intimate acquaintance of Mrs. Jennings joined them soon after they entered the Gardens , and Elinor was not sorry that by her continuing with them , and engaging all Mrs. Jennings 's conversation , she was herself left to quiet reflection . 
Mrs. Jennings immediately whispered to Elinor , `` Get it all out of her , my dear . 
It was lucky , however , for Mrs. Jennings 's curiosity , and for Elinor 's too , that she would tell anything without being asked , for nothing would otherwise have been learnt . 
She had wandered away to a subject on which Elinor had nothing to say , and therefore soon judged it expedient to find her way back again to the first . 
`` I never heard anything of the kind hinted at before , I assure you , '' said Elinor . 
`` I do not understand what you mean by interrupting them , '' said Elinor ; `` you were all in the same room together , were not you ? '' 
cried Elinor ; `` have you been repeating to me what you only learnt yourself by listening at the door ? 
Elinor tried to talk of something else ; but Miss Steele could not be kept beyond a couple of minutes , from what was uppermost in her mind . '' 
`` Well , '' said Elinor , `` it is a comfort to be prepared against the worst . 
Such was her parting concern ; for after this , she had time only to pay her farewell compliments to Mrs. Jennings , before her company was claimed by Mrs. Richardson ; and Elinor was left in possession of knowledge which might feed her powers of reflection some time , though she had learnt very little more than what had been already foreseen and foreplanned in her own mind . 
As soon as they returned to the carriage , Mrs. Jennings was eager for information ; but as Elinor wished to spread as little as possible intelligence that had in the first place been so unfairly obtained , she confined herself to the brief repetition of such simple particulars , as she felt assured that Lucy , for the sake of her own consequence , would chuse to have known . 
The next morning brought Elinor a letter by the two-penny post , from Lucy herself . 
As soon as Elinor had finished it , she performed what she concluded to be its writer 's real design , by placing it in the hands of Mrs. Jennings , who read it aloud with many comments of satisfaction and praise . 
Elinor was hardly less anxious than herself for their removal , and only so much less bent on its being effected immediately , as that she was conscious of the difficulties of so long a journey , which Marianne could not be brought to acknowledge . 
She began , however , seriously to turn her thoughts towards its accomplishment , and had already mentioned their wishes to their kind hostess , who resisted them with all the eloquence of her good-will , when a plan was suggested , which , though detaining them from home yet a few weeks longer , appeared to Elinor altogether much more eligible than any other . 
-- `` You forget , '' said Elinor , gently , `` that its situation is not ... that it is not in the neighbourhood of ... '' `` But it is in Somersetshire . 
-- There , where I looked forward to going ... No , Elinor , you can not expect me to go there . '' 
Elinor would not argue upon the propriety of overcoming such feelings ; -- she only endeavoured to counteract them by working on others ; -- and represented it , therefore , as a measure which would fix the time of her returning to that dear mother , whom she so much wished to see , in a more eligible , more comfortable , manner , than any other plan could do , and perhaps without any greater delay . 
Elinor was grateful for the attention , but it could not alter their design ; and their mother 's concurrence being readily gained , everything relative to their return was arranged as far as it could be ; -- and Marianne found some relief in drawing up a statement of the hours , that were yet to divide her from Barton . 
Perhaps Mrs. Jennings was in hopes , by this vigorous sketch of their future ennui , to provoke him to make that offer , which might give himself an escape from it ; -- and if so , she had soon afterwards good reason to think her object gained ; for , on Elinor 's moving to the window to take more expeditiously the dimensions of a print , which she was going to copy for her friend , he followed her to it with a look of particular meaning , and conversed with her there for several minutes . 
The effect of his discourse on the lady too , could not escape her observation , for though she was too honourable to listen , and had even changed her seat on purpose that she might not hear , to one close by the piano fort on which Marianne was playing , she could not keep herself from seeing that Elinor changed colour , attended with agitation , and was too intent on what he said , to pursue her employment . 
-- Still farther in confirmation of her hopes , in the interval of Marianne 's turning from one lesson to another , some words of the Colonel 's inevitably reached her ear , in which he seemed to be apologizing for the badness of his house . 
What Elinor said in reply she could not distinguish , but judged from the motion of her lips that she did not think that any material objection ; -- and Mrs. Jennings commended her in her heart for being so honest . 
-- This delay on the Colonel 's side , however , did not seem to offend or mortify his fair companion in the least , for on their breaking up the conference soon afterwards , and moving different ways , Mrs. Jennings very plainly heard Elinor say , and with a voice which shewed her to feel what she said , `` I shall always think myself very much obliged to you . '' 
-- Elinor told him that it was . 
Elinor 's astonishment at this commission could hardly have been greater , had the Colonel been really making her an offer of his hand . 
The preferment , which only two days before she had considered as hopeless for Edward , was already provided to enable him to marry ; -- and she , of all people in the world , was fixed on to bestow it ! 
-- Her emotion was such as Mrs. Jennings had attributed to a very different cause ; -- but whatever minor feelings less pure , less pleasing , might have a share in that emotion , her esteem for the general benevolence , and her gratitude for the particular friendship , which together prompted Colonel Brandon to this act , were strongly felt , and warmly expressed . 
She thanked him for it with all her heart , spoke of Edward 's principles and disposition with that praise which she knew them to deserve ; and promised to undertake the commission with pleasure , if it were really his wish to put off so agreeable an office to another . 
But at the same time , she could not help thinking that no one could so well perform it as himself . 
It was an office in short , from which , unwilling to give Edward the pain of receiving an obligation from her , she would have been very glad to be spared herself ; -- but Colonel Brandon , on motives of equal delicacy declining it likewise , still seemed so desirous of its being given through her means , that she would not on any account make farther opposition . 
Edward , she believed , was still in town , and fortunately she had heard his address from Miss Steele . 
After this had been settled , Colonel Brandon began to talk of his own advantage in securing so respectable and agreeable a neighbour , and then it was that he mentioned with regret , that the house was small and indifferent ; -- an evil which Elinor , as Mrs. Jennings had supposed her to do , made very light of , at least as far as regarded its size . 
-- Such was the sentence which , when misunderstood , so justly offended the delicate feelings of Mrs. Jennings ; but after this narration of what really passed between Colonel Brandon and Elinor , while they stood at the window , the gratitude expressed by the latter on their parting , may perhaps appear in general , not less reasonably excited , nor less properly worded than if it had arisen from an offer of marriage . 
`` Thank you , ma'am , '' said Elinor . 
`` You mean to go to Delaford after them I suppose , '' said Elinor , with a faint smile . 
Elinor did not quite understand the beginning of Mrs. Jennings 's speech ; neither did she think it worth enquiring into ; and therefore only replied to its conclusion . 
`` Certainly , ma'am , '' replied Elinor , not hearing much of what she said , and more anxious to be alone , than to be mistress of the subject . 
Elinor had just been congratulating herself , in the midst of her perplexity , that however difficult it might be to express herself properly by letter , it was at least preferable to giving the information by word of mouth , when her visitor entered , to force her upon this greatest exertion of all . 
Her astonishment and confusion were very great on his so sudden appearance . 
She had not seen him before since his engagement became public , and therefore not since his knowing her to be acquainted with it ; which , with the consciousness of what she had been thinking of , and what she had to tell him , made her feel particularly uncomfortable for some minutes . 
Whether he had asked her pardon for his intrusion on first coming into the room , he could not recollect ; but determining to be on the safe side , he made his apology in form as soon as he could say anything , after taking a chair . '' 
`` You would not have gone , however , '' said Elinor , recovering herself , and determined to get over what she so much dreaded as soon as possible , `` without receiving our good wishes , even if we had not been able to give them in person . 
-- `` Yes , '' continued Elinor , gathering more resolution , as some of the worst was over ; `` Colonel Brandon means it as a testimony of his concern for what has lately passed -- for the cruel situation in which the unjustifiable conduct of your family has placed you -- a concern which I am sure Marianne , myself , and all your friends must share ; and likewise as a proof of his high esteem for your general character , and his particular approbation of your behaviour on the present occasion . '' 
Truth obliged her to acknowledge some small share in the action , but she was at the same time so unwilling to appear as the benefactress of Edward , that she acknowledged it with hesitation ; which probably contributed to fix that suspicion in his mind which had recently entered it . 
For a short time he sat deep in thought , after Elinor had ceased to speak ; -- at last , and as if it were rather an effort , he said , `` Colonel Brandon seems a man of great worth and respectability . 
`` Indeed , '' replied Elinor , `` I believe that you will find him , on farther acquaintance , all that you have heard him to be ; and as you will be such very near neighbours , -LRB- for I understand the parsonage is almost close to the mansion-house , -RRB- it is particularly important that he should be all this . '' 
Edward made no answer ; but when she had turned away her head , gave her a look so serious , so earnest , so uncheerful , as seemed to say , that he might hereafter wish the distance between the parsonage and the mansion-house much greater . 
Elinor told him the number of the house . 
Elinor did not offer to detain him ; and they parted , with a very earnest assurance on her side of her unceasing good wishes for his happiness in every change of situation that might befal him ; on his , with rather an attempt to return the same good will , than the power of expressing it . 
`` When I see him again , '' said Elinor to herself , as the door shut him out , `` I shall see him the husband of Lucy . '' 
And with this pleasing anticipation , she sat down to reconsider the past , recal the words , and endeavour to comprehend all the feelings of Edward ; and , of course , to reflect on her own with discontent . 
When Mrs. Jennings came home , though she returned from seeing people whom she had never seen before , and of whom therefore she must have a great deal to say , her mind was so much more occupied by the important secret in her possession , than by anything else , that she reverted to it again as soon as Elinor appeared . 
`` Well , my dear , '' she cried , `` I sent you up the young man . 
`` Really , '' said Elinor , `` I know so little of these kind of forms , that I can can hardly even conjecture as to the time , or the preparation necessary ; but I suppose two or three months will complete his ordination . '' 
`` My dear ma'am , '' said Elinor , `` what can you be thinking of ? 
Elinor was quite of her opinion , as to the probability of their not waiting for any thing more . 
So far was she , at the same time , from any backwardness to give Elinor that credit which Edward would give her , that she spoke of her friendship for them both with the most grateful warmth , was ready to own all their obligation to her , and openly declared that no exertion for their good on Miss Dashwood 's part , either present or future , would ever surprise her , for she believed her capable of doing anything in the world for those she really valued . 
It was now above a week since John Dashwood had called in Berkeley-street , and as since that time no notice had been taken by them of his wife 's indisposition , beyond one verbal enquiry , Elinor began to feel it necessary to pay her a visit . 
-- This was an obligation , however , which not only opposed her own inclination , but which had not the assistance of any encouragement from her companions . 
Marianne , not contented with absolutely refusing to go herself , was very urgent to prevent her sister 's going at all ; and Mrs. Jennings , though her carriage was always at Elinor 's service , so very much disliked Mrs. John Dashwood , that not even her curiosity to see how she looked after the late discovery , nor her strong desire to affront her by taking Edward 's part , could overcome her unwillingness to be in her company again . 
The consequence was , that Elinor set out by herself to pay a visit , for which no one could really have less inclination , and to run the risk of a tte--tte with a woman , whom neither of the others had so much reason to dislike . 
He expressed great pleasure in meeting Elinor , told her that he had been just going to call in Berkeley-street , and assuring her that Fanny would be very glad to see her , invited her to come in . 
-- Elinor made what excuse she could for her . 
Elinor contradicted it however , very positively ; and by relating that she had herself been employed in conveying the offer from Colonel Brandon to Edward , and therefore must understand the terms on which it was given , obliged him to submit to her authority . 
-- he cried , after hearing what she said -- `` what could be the Colonel 's motive ? '' 
Elinor had some difficulty here to refrain from observing , that she thought Fanny might have borne with composure , an acquisition of wealth to her brother , by which neither she nor her child could be possibly impoverished . 
Elinor , '' said John , `` your reasoning is very good , but it is founded on ignorance of human nature . 
Elinor was silent . 
Elinor , smiling at the grave and decisive importance of her brother 's tone , calmly replied . 
Elinor said no more , and John was also for a short time silent . 
Not that you have any reason to regret , my dear Elinor . 
Elinor had heard enough , if not to gratify her vanity , and raise her self-importance , to agitate her nerves and fill her mind ; -- and she was therefore glad to be spared from the necessity of saying much in reply herself , and from the danger of hearing anything more from her brother , by the entrance of Mr. Robert Ferrars . 
After a few moments ' chat , John Dashwood , recollecting that Fanny was yet uninformed of his sister 's being there , quitted the room in quest of her ; and Elinor was left to improve her acquaintance with Robert , who , by the gay unconcern , the happy self-complacency of his manner while enjoying so unfair a division of his mother 's love and liberality , to the prejudice of his banished brother , earned only by his own dissipated course of life , and that brother 's integrity , was confirming her most unfavourable opinion of his head and heart . 
Elinor repeated the particulars of it , as she had given them to John , and their effect on Robert , though very different , was not less striking than it had been on him . 
Elinor while she waited in silence , and immoveable gravity , the conclusion of such folly , could not restrain her eyes from being fixed on him with a look that spoke all the contempt it excited . 
It was a look , however , very well bestowed , for it relieved her own feelings , and gave no intelligence to him . 
He was recalled from wit to wisdom , not by any reproof of her 's , but by his own sensibility . 
But though she never spoke of it out of her own family , Elinor could see its influence on her mind , in the something like confusion of countenance with which she entered , and an attempt at cordiality in her behaviour to herself . 
She even proceeded so far as to be concerned to find that Elinor and her sister were so soon to leave town , as she had hoped to see more of them ; -- an exertion in which her husband , who attended her into the room , and hung enamoured over her accents , seemed to distinguish everything that was most affectionate and graceful . 
One other call in Harley-street , a short and take-leave call , in which Elinor received her brother 's congratulations on their travelling so far towards Barton without any expence , and on Colonel Brandon 's being to follow them to Cleveland in a day or two , completed the intercourse of the brother and sisters in town ; -- and a faint invitation from Fanny , to come to Norland whenever it should happen to be in their way , which of all things was the most unlikely to occur , with a more warm , though less public , assurance , from John to Elinor , of the promptitude with which he should come to see her at Delaford , was all that foretold any meeting in the country . 
It amused her to observe that all her friends seemed determined to send her to Delaford ; -- a place , in which , of all others , she would now least chuse to visit , or wish to reside ; for not only was it considered as her future home by her brother and Mrs. Jennings , but even Lucy , when they parted , gave her a pressing invitation to visit her there . 
Elinor 's satisfaction at the moment of removal , was more positive . 
She had no such object for her lingering thoughts to fix on , she left no creature behind , from whom it would give her a moment 's regret to be divided for ever , she was pleased to be free herself from the persecution of Lucy 's friendship , she was grateful for bringing her sister away unseen by Willoughby since his marriage , and she looked forward with hope to what a few months of tranquillity at Barton might do towards restoring Marianne 's peace of mind , and confirming her own . 
Elinor , however little concerned in it , joined in their discourse , and Marianne , who had the knack of finding her way in every house to the library , however it might be avoided by the family in general , soon procured herself a book . 
The openness and heartiness of her manner , more than atoned for that want of recollection and elegance , which made her often deficient in the forms of politeness ; her kindness , recommended by so pretty a face , was engaging ; her folly , though evident , was not disgusting , because it was not conceited ; and Elinor could have forgiven every thing but her laugh . 
Elinor had seen so little of Mr. Palmer , and in that little had seen so much variety in his address to her sister and herself , that she knew not what to expect to find him in his own family . 
She found him , however , perfectly the gentleman in his behaviour to all his visitors , and only occasionally rude to his wife and her mother ; she found him very capable of being a pleasant companion , and only prevented from being so always , by too great an aptitude to fancy himself as much superior to people in general , as he must feel himself to be to Mrs. Jennings and Charlotte . 
For the rest of his character and habits , they were marked , as far as Elinor could perceive , with no traits at all unusual in his sex and time of life . 
She liked him , however , upon the whole much better than she had expected , and in her heart was not sorry that she could like him no more ; -- not sorry to be driven by the observation of his Epicurism , his selfishness , and his conceit , to rest with complacency on the remembrance of Edward 's generous temper , simple taste , and diffident feelings . 
Of Edward , or at least of some of his concerns , she now received intelligence from Colnel Brandon , who had been into Dorsetshire lately ; and who , treating her at once as the disinterested friend of Mr. Ferrars , and the kind confidante of himself , talked to her a great deal of the Parsonage at Delaford , described its deficiencies , and told her what he meant to do himself towards removing them . 
-- His behaviour to her in this , as well as in every other particular , his open pleasure in meeting her after an absence of only ten days , his readiness to converse with her , and his deference for her opinion , might very well justify Mrs. Jennings 's persuasion of his attachment , and would have been enough , perhaps , had not Elinor still , as from the first , believed Marianne his real favourite , to make her suspect it herself . 
Though heavy and feverish , with a pain in her limbs , a cough , and a sore throat , a good night 's rest was to cure her entirely ; and it was with difficulty that Elinor prevailed on her , when she went to bed , to try one or two of the simplest of the remedies . 
A very restless and feverish night , however , disappointed the expectation of both ; and when Marianne , after persisting in rising , confessed herself unable to sit up , and returned voluntarily to her bed , Elinor was very ready to adopt Mrs. Jennings 's advice , of sending for the Palmers ' apothecary . 
Mrs. Jennings , who had been inclined from the first to think Marianne 's complaint more serious than Elinor , now looked very grave on Mr. Harris 's report , and confirming Charlotte 's fears and caution , urged the necessity of her immediate removal with her infant ; and Mr. Palmer , though treating their apprehensions as idle , found the anxiety and importunity of his wife too great to be withstood . 
Mrs. Jennings however , with a kindness of heart which made Elinor really love her , declared her resolution of not stirring from Cleveland as long as Marianne remained ill , and of endeavouring , by her own attentive care , to supply to her the place of the mother she had taken her from ; and Elinor found her on every occasion a most willing and active helpmate , desirous to share in all her fatigues , and often by her better experience in nursing , of material use . 
The little that she said , was all in lamentation of this inevitable delay ; though Elinor tried to raise her spirits , and make her believe , as she then really believed herself , that it would be a very short one . 
The next day produced little or no alteration in the state of the patient ; she certainly was not better , and except that there was no amendment , did not appear worse . 
Elinor , confirmed in every pleasant hope , was all cheerfulness ; rejoicing that in her letters to her mother , she had pursued her own judgment rather than her friend 's , in making very light of the indisposion which delayed them at Cleveland ; and almost fixing on the time when Marianne would be able to travel . 
Her sleep , though not so quiet as Elinor wished to see it , lasted a considerable time ; and anxious to observe the result of it herself , she resolved to sit with her during the whole of it . 
Mrs. Jennings , knowing nothing of any change in the patient , went unusually early to bed ; her maid , who was one of the principal nurses , was recreating herself in the housekeeper 's room , and Elinor remained alone with Marianne . 
Elinor perceived with alarm that she was not quite herself , and while attempting to soothe her , eagerly felt her pulse . 
Elinor made no resistance that was not easily overcome . 
She thanked him with brief , though fervent gratitude , and while he went to hurry off his servant with a message to Mr. Harris , and an order for post-horses directly , she wrote a few lines to her mother . 
The comfort of such a friend at that moment as Colonel Brandon -- of such a companion for her mother , -- how gratefully was it felt ! 
-- a companion whose judgment would guide , whose attendance must relieve , and whose friendship might soothe her ! 
-- as far as the shock of such a summons could be lessened to her , his presence , his manners , his assistance , would lessen it . 
He , meanwhile , whatever he might feel , acted with all the firmness of a collected mind , made every necessary arrangement with the utmost dispatch , and calculated with exactness the time in which she might look for his return . 
The horses arrived , even before they were expected , and Colonel Brandon only pressing her hand with a look of solemnity , and a few words spoken too low to reach her ear , hurried into the carriage . 
It was then about twelve o'clock , and she returned to her sister 's apartment to wait for the arrival of the apothecary , and to watch by her the rest of the night . 
Hour after hour passed away in sleepless pain and delirium on Marianne 's side , and in the most cruel anxiety on Elinor 's , before Mr. Harris appeared . 
Her apprehensions once raised , paid by their excess for all her former security ; and the servant who sat up with her , for she would not allow Mrs. Jennings to be called , only tortured her more , by hints of what her mistress had always thought . 
Marianne 's ideas were still , at intervals , fixed incoherently on her mother , and whenever she mentioned her name , it gave a pang to the heart of poor Elinor , who reproaching herself for having trifled with so many days of illness , and wretched for some immediate relief , fancied that all relief might soon be in vain , that every thing had been delayed too long , and pictured to herself her suffering mother arriving too late to see this darling child , or to see her rational . 
She was on the point of sending again for Mr. Harris , or if he could not come , for some other advice , when the former -- but not till after five o'clock -- arrived . 
His opinion , however , made some little amends for his delay , for though acknowledging a very unexpected and unpleasant alteration in his patient , he would not allow the danger to be material , and talked of the relief which a fresh mode of treatment must procure , with a confidence which , in a lesser degree , was communicated to Elinor . 
He promised to call again in the course of three or four hours , and left both the patient and her anxious attendant more composed than he had found them . 
Her former apprehensions , now with greater reason restored , left her no doubt of the event ; -- and though trying to speak comfort to Elinor , her conviction of her sister 's danger would not allow her to offer the comfort of hope . 
Her heart was really grieved . 
Elinor , catching all , and more than all , his fears in a moment , proposed to call in farther advice . 
Elinor felt all the reasonableness of the idea , and it gave fresh misery to her reflections . 
About noon , however , she began -- but with a caution -- a dread of disappointment , which for some time kept her silent , even to her friend -- to fancy , to hope she could perceive a slight amendment in her sister 's pulse ; -- she waited , watched , and examined it again and again ; -- and at last , with an agitation more difficult to bury under exterior calmness , than all her foregoing distress , ventured to communicate her hopes . 
Mrs. Jennings , though forced , on examination , to acknowledge a temporary revival , tried to keep her young friend from indulging a thought of its continuance ; -- and Elinor , conning over every injunction of distrust , told herself likewise not to hope . 
Hope had already entered ; and feeling all its anxious flutter , she bent over her sister to watch -- she hardly knew for what . 
Half an hour passed away , and the favourable symptom yet blessed her . 
Her breath , her skin , her lips , all flattered Elinor with signs of amendment , and Marianne fixed her eyes on her with a rational , though languid , gaze . 
Elinor could not be cheerful . 
Her joy was of a different kind , and led to anything rather than to gaiety . 
All within Elinor 's breast was satisfaction , silent and strong . 
She continued by the side of her sister with little intermission the whole afternoon , calming every fear , satisfying every enquiry of her enfeebled spirits , supplying every succour , and watching almost every look and every breath . 
The possibility of a relapse would of course , in some moments , occur to remind her of what anxiety was -- but when she saw , on her frequent and minute examination , that every symptom of recovery continued , and saw Marianne at six o'clock sink into a quiet , steady , and to all appearance comfortable , sleep , she silenced every doubt . 
Mrs. Jennings would have persuaded her at its conclusion to take some rest before her mother 's arrival , and allow her to take her place by Marianne ; but Elinor had no sense of fatigue , no capability of sleep at that moment about her , and she was not to be kept away from her sister an unnecessary instant . 
The wind roared round the house , and the rain beat against the windows ; but Elinor , all happiness within , regarded it not . 
Had it been ten , Elinor would have been convinced that at that moment she heard a carriage driving up to the house ; and so strong was the persuasion that she did , in spite of the almost impossibility of their being already come , that she moved into the adjoining dressing-closet and opened a window-shutter , to be satisfied of the truth . 
She instantly saw that her ears had not deceived her . 
By their uncertain light she thought she could discern it to be drawn by four horses ; and this , while it told the excess of her poor mother 's alarm , gave some explanation to such unexpected rapidity . 
Never in her life had Elinor found it so difficult to be calm , as at that moment . 
The knowledge of what her mother must be feeling as the carriage stopt at the door , -- of her doubt -- her dread -- perhaps her despair ! 
-- and of what she had to tell ! 
All that remained to be done , was to be speedy ; and therefore staying only till she could leave Mrs. Jennings 's maid with her sister , she hurried down stairs . 
Elinor , starting back with a look of horror at the sight of him , obeyed the first impulse of her heart in turning instantly to quit the room , and her hand was already on the lock , when its action was suspended by his hastily advancing , and saying , in a voice rather of command than supplication , `` Miss Dashwood , for half an hour -- for ten minutes -- I entreat you to stay . '' 
`` No , sir , '' she replied with firmness , `` I shall not stay . 
She hesitated ; she knew not what to do . 
The possibility of Colonel Brandon 's arriving and finding him there , came across her . 
But she had promised to hear him , and her curiosity no less than her honour was engaged . 
After a moment 's recollection , therefore , concluding that prudence required dispatch , and that her acquiescence would best promote it , she walked silently towards the table , and sat down . 
`` Pray be quick , sir '' -- said Elinor impatiently -- `` I have no time to spare . '' 
He was sitting in an attitude of deep meditation , and seemed not to hear her . 
Elinor would not speak . 
Elinor looked at him with greater astonishment than ever . 
She began to think that he must be in liquor ; -- the strangeness of such a visit , and of such manners , seemed no otherwise intelligible ; and with this impression she immediately rose , saying , `` Mr. Willoughby , I advise you at present to return to Combe . 
-- cried Elinor , more and more at a loss to understand what he would be at . 
The steadiness of his manner , and the intelligence of his eye as he spoke , convincing Elinor , that whatever other unpardonable folly might bring him to Cleveland , he was not brought -- there by intoxication , she said , after a moment 's recollection , `` Mr. Willoughby , you ought to feel , and I certainly do -- that after what has passed -- your coming here in this manner , and forcing yourself upon my notice , requires a very particular excuse . 
`` Upon my soul it is , '' -- was his answer , with a warmth which brought all the former Willoughby to her remembrance , and in spite of herself made her think him sincere . 
Elinor bowed her assent . 
`` I do not know , '' said he , after a pause of expectation on her side , and thoughtfulness on his own , -- `` how you may have accounted for my behaviour to your sister , or what diabolical motive you may have imputed to me . 
`` You did then , '' said Elinor , a little softened , `` believe yourself at one time attached to her . '' 
-- `` Mrs. Smith had somehow or other been informed , I imagine by some distant relation , whose interest it was to deprive me of her favour , of an affair , a connection -- but I need not explain myself farther , '' he added , looking at her with an heightened colour and an enquiring eye , `` your particular intimacy -- you have probably heard the whole story long ago . '' 
`` I have , '' returned Elinor , colouring likewise , and hardening her heart anew against any compassion for him , `` I have heard it all . 
said Elinor , reproachfully ; `` a note would have answered every purpose . 
Elinor first spoke . 
`` Well , sir , '' said Elinor , who , though pitying him , grew impatient for his departure , `` and this is all ? '' 
Elinor 's heart , which had undergone many changes in the course of this extraordinary conversation , was now softened again ; -- yet she felt it her duty to check such ideas in her companion as the last . 
`` You are very wrong , Mr. Willoughby , very blameable , '' said Elinor , while her voice , in spite of herself , betrayed her compassionate emotion ; `` you ought not to speak in this way , either of Mrs. Willoughby or my sister . 
`` Do not talk to me of my wife , '' said he with an heavy sigh . 
Elinor made no answer . 
Her thoughts were silently fixed on the irreparable injury which too early an independence and its consequent habits of idleness , dissipation , and luxury , had made in the mind , the character , the happiness , of a man who , to every advantage of person and talents , united a disposition naturally open and honest , and a feeling , affectionate temper . 
Elinor assured him that she did ; -- that she forgave , pitied , wished him well -- was even interested in his happiness -- and added some gentle counsel as to the behaviour most likely to promote it . 
Were I even by any blessed chance at liberty again '' -- Elinor stopped him with a reproof . 
Elinor , for some time after he left her , for some time even after the sound of his carriage had died away , remained too much oppressed by a croud of ideas , widely differing in themselves , but of which sadness was the general result , to think even of her sister . 
Willoughby , he , whom only half an hour ago she had abhorred as the most worthless of men , Willoughby , in spite of all his faults , excited a degree of commiseration for the sufferings produced by them , which made her think of him as now separated for ever from her family with a tenderness , a regret , rather in proportion , as she soon acknowledged within herself -- to his wishes than to his merits . 
She felt that his influence over her mind was heightened by circumstances which ought not in reason to have weight ; -- by that person of uncommon attraction , that open , affectionate , and lively manner which it was no merit to possess ; and by that still ardent love for Marianne , which it was not even innocent to indulge . 
Elinor 's heart was full . 
Mrs. Dashwood , whose terror as they drew near the house had produced almost the conviction of Marianne 's being no more , had no voice to enquire after her , no voice even for Elinor ; but she , waiting neither for salutation nor enquiry , instantly gave the joyful relief ; -- and her mother , catching it with all her usual warmth , was in a moment as much overcome by her happiness , as she had been before by her fears . 
She was supported into the drawing-room between her daughter and her friend ; -- and there , shedding tears of joy , though still unable to speak , embraced Elinor again and again , turning from her at intervals to press Colonel Brandon 's hand , with a look which spoke at once her gratitude , and her conviction of his sharing with herself in the bliss of the moment . 
He shared it , however , in a silence even greater than her own . 
Elinor 's delight as she saw what each felt in the meeting , was only checked by an apprehension of its robbing Marianne of farther sleep ; -- but Mrs. Dashwood could be calm , could be even prudent , when the life of a child was at stake , and Marianne , satisfied in knowing her mother was near her , and conscious of being too weak for conversation , submitted readily to the silence and quiet prescribed by every nurse around her . 
Mrs. Dashwood would sit up with her all night , and Elinor , in compliance with her mother 's entreaty , went to bed . 
Willoughby , `` poor Willoughby , '' as she now allowed herself to call him , was constantly in her thoughts ; she would not but have heard his vindication for the world , and now blamed , now acquitted herself for having judged him so harshly before . 
But her promise of relating it to her sister was invariably painful . 
She dreaded the performance of it , dreaded what its effect on Marianne might be ; doubted whether after such an explanation she could ever be happy with another , and for a moment wished Willoughby a widower . 
Elinor could not hear the declaration , nor witness its proofs without sometimes wondering whether her mother ever recollected Edward . 
But Mrs. Dashwood , trusting to the temperate account of her own disappointment which Elinor had sent her , was led away by the exuberance of her joy to think only of what would increase it . 
Marianne was restored to her from a danger in which , as she now began to feel , her own mistaken judgment in encouraging the unfortunate attachment to Willoughby , had contributed to place her ; -- and in her recovery she had yet another source of joy unthought of by Elinor . 
It was thus imparted to her , as soon as any opportunity of private conference between them occurred . 
My Elinor , you do not yet know all my happiness . 
Her daughter , feeling by turns both pleased and pained , surprised and not surprised , was all silent attention . 
`` You are never like me , dear Elinor , or I should wonder at your composure now . 
Elinor was half inclined to ask her reason for thinking so , because satisfied that none founded on an impartial consideration of their age , characters , or feelings , could be given ; -- but her mother must always be carried away by her imagination on any interesting subject , and therefore instead of an enquiry , she passed it off with a smile . 
He has loved her , my Elinor , ever since the first moment of seeing her . '' 
Here , however , Elinor perceived , -- not the language , not the professions of Colonel Brandon , but the natural embellishments of her mother 's active fancy , which fashioned every thing delightful to her , as it chose . 
`` His regard for her , infinitely surpassing anything that Willoughby ever felt or feigned , as much more warm , as more sincere or constant -- which ever we are to call it -- has subsisted through all the knowledge of dear Marianne 's unhappy prepossession for that worthless young man ! 
`` Colonel Brandon 's character , '' said Elinor , `` as an excellent man , is well established . '' 
`` I know it is '' -- replied her mother seriously , `` or after such a warning , I should be the last to encourage his affection , or even to be pleased by it . 
`` His character , however , '' answered Elinor , `` does not rest on one act of kindness , to which his affection for Marianne , were humanity out of the case , would have prompted him . 
Elinor could not remember it ; -- but her mother , without waiting for her assent , continued , `` And his manners , the Colonel 's manners are not only more pleasing to me than Willoughby 's ever were , but they are of a kind I well know to be more solidly attaching to Marianne . 
She paused . 
-- Her daughter could not quite agree with her , but her dissent was not heard , and therefore gave no offence . 
Poor Elinor ! 
Here they were interrupted by the entrance of a third person , and Elinor withdrew to think it all over in private , to wish success to her friend , and yet in wishing it , to feel a pang for Willoughby . 
His emotion in entering the room , in seeing her altered looks , and in receiving the pale hand which she immediately held out to him , was such as , in Elinor 's conjecture , must arise from something more than his affection for Marianne , or the consciousness of its being known to others ; and she soon discovered in his melancholy eye and varying complexion as he looked at her sister , the probable recurrence of many past scenes of misery to his mind , brought back by that resemblance between Marianne and Eliza already acknowledged , and now strengthened by the hollow eye , the sickly skin , the posture of reclining weakness , and the warm acknowledgment of peculiar obligation . 
Mrs. Dashwood and Elinor then followed , and the others were left by themselves , to talk of the travellers , and feel their own dullness , till Mrs. Jennings was summoned to her chaise to take comfort in the gossip of her maid for the loss of her two young companions ; and Colonel Brandon immediately afterwards took his solitary way to Delaford . 
To Elinor , the observation of the latter was particularly grateful . 
But here , Elinor could neither wonder nor blame ; and when she saw , as she assisted Marianne from the carriage , that she had been crying , she saw only an emotion too natural in itself to raise anything less tender than pity , and in its unobtrusiveness entitled to praise . 
In the whole of her subsequent manner , she traced the direction of a mind awakened to reasonable exertion ; for no sooner had they entered their common sitting room , than Marianne turned her eyes around it with a look of resolute firmness , as if determined at once to accustom herself to the sight of every object with which the remembrance of Willoughby could be connected . 
Elinor honoured her for a plan which originated so nobly as this ; though smiling to see the same eager fancy which had been leading her to the extreme of languid indolence and selfish repining , now at work in introducing excess into a scheme of such rational employment and virtuous self-controul . 
But at last a soft , genial morning appeared ; such as might tempt the daughter 's wishes and the mother 's confidence ; and Marianne , leaning on Elinor 's arm , was authorised to walk as long as she could without fatigue , in the lane before the house . 
-- shall we ever talk on that subject , Elinor ? '' 
-- Elinor tenderly invited her to be open . 
-- Elinor joyfully treasured her words as she answered , `` If you could be assured of that , you think you should be easy . '' 
Elinor said no more . 
She was debating within herself on the eligibility of beginning her story directly , or postponing it till Marianne were in stronger health ; -- and they crept on for a few minutes in silence . 
-- Do not , my dearest Elinor , let your kindness defend what I know your judgment must censure . 
Here ceased the rapid flow of her self-reproving spirit ; and Elinor , impatient to soothe , though too honest to flatter , gave her instantly that praise and support which her frankness and her contrition so well deserved . 
Elinor , who had now been for some time reflecting on the propriety or impropriety of speedily hazarding her narration , without feeling at all nearer decision than at first , heard this ; and perceiving that as reflection did nothing , resolution must do all , soon found herself leading to the fact . 
She managed the recital , as she hoped , with address ; prepared her anxious listener with caution ; related simply and honestly the chief points on which Willoughby grounded his apology ; did justice to his repentance , and softened only his protestations of present regard . 
Elinor , dreading her being tired , led her towards home ; and till they reached the door of the cottage , easily conjecturing what her curiosity must be though no question was suffered to speak it , talked of nothing but Willoughby , and their conversation together ; was carefully minute in every particular of speech and look , where minuteness could be safely indulged . 
Elinor would not attempt to disturb a solitude so reasonable as what she now sought ; and with a mind anxiously pre-arranging its result , and a resolution of reviving the subject again , should Marianne fail to do it , she turned into the parlour to fulfil her parting injunction . 
But it was neither in Elinor 's power , nor in her wish , to rouse such feelings in another , by her retailed explanation , as had at first been called forth in herself . 
Reflection had given calmness to her judgment , and sobered her own opinion of Willoughby 's deserts ; -- she wished , therefore , to declare only the simple truth , and lay open such facts as were really due to his character , without any embellishment of tenderness to lead the fancy astray . 
Mrs. Dashwood would have interrupted her instantly with soothing tenderness , had not Elinor , who really wished to hear her sister 's unbiassed opinion , by an eager sign , engaged her silence . 
Marianne slowly continued -- `` It is a great relief to me -- what Elinor told me this morning -- I have now heard exactly what I wished to hear . '' 
`` You consider the matter , '' said Elinor , `` exactly as a good mind and a sound understanding must consider it ; and I dare say , you perceive , as well as myself , not only in this , but in many other circumstances , reason enough to be convinced that your marriage must have involved you in many certain troubles and disappointments in which you would have been poorly supported by an affection , on his side , much less certain . 
Marianne 's lips quivered , and she repeated the word `` Selfish ? '' 
`` The whole of his behaviour , '' replied Elinor , `` from the beginning to the end of the affair , has been grounded on selfishness . 
`` At present , '' continued Elinor , `` he regrets what he has done . 
Marianne would not let her proceed ; -- and Elinor , satisfied that each felt their own error , wished to avoid any survey of the past that might weaken her sister 's spirits ; she therefore , pursuing the first subject , immediately continued , `` One observation may , I think , be fairly drawn from the whole of the story -- that all Willoughby 's difficulties have arisen from the first offence against virtue , in his behaviour to Eliza Williams . 
Elinor , according to her expectation , saw on the two or three following days , that Marianne did not continue to gain strength as she had done ; but while her resolution was unsubdued , and she still tried to appear cheerful and easy , her sister could safely trust to the effect of time upon her health . 
Elinor grew impatient for some tidings of Edward . 
She had heard nothing of him since her leaving London , nothing new of his plans , nothing certain even of his present abode . 
Some letters had passed between her and her brother , in consequence of Marianne 's illness ; and in the first of John 's , there had been this sentence : -- `` We know nothing of our unfortunate Edward , and can make no enquiries on so prohibited a subject , but conclude him to be still at Oxford ; '' which was all the intelligence of Edward afforded her by the correspondence , for his name was not even mentioned in any of the succeeding letters . 
Marianne gave a violent start , fixed her eyes upon Elinor , saw her turning pale , and fell back in her chair in hysterics . 
Mrs. Dashwood , whose eyes , as she answered the servant 's enquiry , had intuitively taken the same direction , was shocked to perceive by Elinor 's countenance how much she really suffered , and in a moment afterwards , alike distressed by Marianne 's situation , knew not on which child to bestow her principal attention . 
By that time , Marianne was rather better , and her mother leaving her to the care of Margaret and the maid , returned to Elinor , who , though still much disordered , had so far recovered the use of her reason and voice as to be just beginning an enquiry of Thomas , as to the source of his intelligence . 
Mrs. Dashwood immediately took all that trouble on herself ; and Elinor had the benefit of the information without the exertion of seeking it . 
Elinor 's heart could easily account for his not putting himself forward ; and Mrs. Dashwood probably found the same explanation . 
Mrs. Dashwood now looked at her daughter ; but Elinor knew better than to expect them . 
She recognised the whole of Lucy in the message , and was very confident that Edward would never come near them . 
Elinor looked as if she wished to hear more . 
Marianne had already sent to say that she should eat nothing more , Mrs. Dashwood 's and Elinor 's appetites were equally lost , and Margaret might think herself very well off , that with so much uneasiness as both her sisters had lately experienced , so much reason as they had often had to be careless of their meals , she had never been obliged to go without her dinner before . 
When the dessert and the wine were arranged , and Mrs. Dashwood and Elinor were left by themselves , they remained long together in a similarity of thoughtfulness and silence . 
She now found that she had erred in relying on Elinor 's representation of herself ; and justly concluded that everything had been expressly softened at the time , to spare her from an increase of unhappiness , suffering as she then had suffered for Marianne . 
She feared that under this persuasion she had been unjust , inattentive , nay , almost unkind , to her Elinor ; -- that Marianne 's affliction , because more acknowledged , more immediately before her , had too much engrossed her tenderness , and led her away to forget that in Elinor she might have a daughter suffering almost as much , certainly with less self-provocation , and greater fortitude . 
Elinor now found the difference between the expectation of an unpleasant event , however certain the mind may be told to consider it , and certainty itself . 
She now found , that in spite of herself , she had always admitted a hope , while Edward remained single , that something would occur to prevent his marrying Lucy ; that some resolution of his own , some mediation of friends , or some more eligible opportunity of establishment for the lady , would arise to assist the happiness of all . 
Elinor flattered herself that some one of their connections in London would write to them to announce the event , and give farther particulars , -- but day after day passed off , and brought no letter , no tidings . 
Though uncertain that any one were to blame , she found fault with every absent friend . 
was an enquiry which sprung from the impatience of her mind to have something going on . 
Scarcely had she so determined it , when the figure of a man on horseback drew her eyes to the window . 
Now she should hear more ; -- and she trembled in expectation of it . 
Were it possible , she should say it must be Edward . 
She looked again . 
He had just dismounted ; -- she could not be mistaken ; -- it was Edward . 
She moved away and sat down . 
In a moment she perceived that the others were likewise aware of the mistake . 
She saw her mother and Marianne change colour ; saw them look at herself , and whisper a few sentences to each other . 
She would have given the world to be able to speak -- and to make them understand that she hoped no coolness , no slight , would appear in their behaviour to him ; -- but she had no utterance , and was obliged to leave all to their own discretion . 
His countenance , as he entered the room , was not too happy , even for Elinor . 
Elinor 's lips had moved with her mother 's , and when the moment of action was over , she wished that she had shaken hands with him too . 
But it was then too late , and with a countenance meaning to be open , she sat down again and talked of the weather . 
When Elinor had ceased to rejoice in the dryness of the season , a very awful pause took place . 
Elinor , resolving to exert herself , though fearing the sound of her own voice , now said , `` Is Mrs. Ferrars at Longstaple ? '' 
`` I meant , '' said Elinor , taking up some work from the table , `` to enquire after Mrs. Edward Ferrars . '' 
She dared not look up ; -- but her mother and Marianne both turned their eyes on him . 
-- was repeated by Marianne and her mother , in an accent of the utmost amazement ; -- and though Elinor could not speak , even her eyes were fixed on him with the same impatient wonder . 
His words were echoed with unspeakable astonishment by all but Elinor , who sat with her head leaning over her work , in a state of such agitation as made her hardly know where she was . 
Elinor could sit it no longer . 
She almost ran out of the room , and as soon as the door was closed , burst into tears of joy , which at first she thought would never cease . 
Edward , who had till then looked anywhere rather than at her , saw her hurry away , and perhaps saw -- or even heard , her emotion ; for immediately afterwards he fell into a reverie , which no remarks , no enquiries , no affectionate address of Mrs. Dashwood could penetrate , and at last , without saying a word , quitted the room , and walked out towards the village ; -- leaving the others in the greatest astonishment and perplexity on a change in his situation , so wonderful and so sudden ; -- a perplexity which they had no means of lessening but by their own conjectures . 
It was only to ask Elinor to marry him ; -- and considering that he was not altogether inexperienced in such a question , it might be strange that he should feel so uncomfortable in the present case as he really did , so much in need of encouragement and fresh air . 
His heart was now open to Elinor , all its weaknesses , all its errors confessed , and his first boyish attachment to Lucy treated with all the philosophic dignity of twenty-four . 
Mrs. Dashwood , too happy to be comfortable , knew not how to love Edward , nor praise Elinor enough , how to be enough thankful for his release without wounding his delicacy , nor how at once to give them leisure for unrestrained conversation together , and yet enjoy , as she wished , the sight and society of both . 
But Elinor -- How are her feelings to be described ? 
Edward was now fixed at the cottage at least for a week ; -- for whatever other claims might be made on him , it was impossible that less than a week should be given up to the enjoyment of Elinor 's company , or suffice to say half that was to be said of the past , the present , and the future ; -- for though a very few hours spent in the hard labour of incessant talking will dispatch more subjects than can really be in common between any two rational creatures , yet with lovers it is different . 
Lucy 's marriage , the unceasing and reasonable wonder among them all , formed of course one of the earliest discussions of the lovers ; -- and Elinor 's particular knowledge of each party made it appear to her in every view , as one of the most extraordinary and unaccountable circumstances she had ever heard . 
Elinor remembered what Robert had told her in Harley-street , of his opinion of what his own mediation in his brother 's affairs might have done , if applied to in time . 
He put the letter into Elinor 's hands . 
Elinor read and returned it without any comment . 
`` However it may have come about , '' said Elinor , after a pause -- `` they are certainly married . 
That Lucy had certainly meant to deceive , to go off with a flourish of malice against him in her message by Thomas , was perfectly clear to Elinor ; and Edward himself , now thoroughly enlightened on her character , had no scruple in believing her capable of the utmost meanness of wanton ill-nature . 
Though his eyes had been long opened , even before his acquaintance with Elinor began , to her ignorance and a want of liberality in some of her opinions -- they had been equally imputed , by him , to her want of education ; and till her last letter reached him , he had always believed her to be a well-disposed , good-hearted girl , and thoroughly attached to himself . 
Elinor scolded him , harshly as ladies always scold the imprudence which compliments themselves , for having spent so much time with them at Norland , when he must have felt his own inconstancy . 
`` Your behaviour was certainly very wrong , '' said she , `` because -- to say nothing of my own conviction , our relations were all led away by it to fancy and expect what , as you were then situated , could never be . '' 
Elinor smiled , and shook her head . 
Edward had two thousand pounds , and Elinor one , which , with Delaford living , was all that they could call their own ; for it was impossible that Mrs. Dashwood should advance anything , and they were neither of them quite enough in love to think that three hundred and fifty pounds a-year would supply them with the comforts of life . 
But Elinor had no such dependance ; for , since Edward would still be unable to marry Miss Morton , and his chusing herself had been spoken of in Mrs. Ferrars 's flattering language as only a lesser evil than his chusing Lucy Steele , she feared that Robert 's offence would serve no other purpose than to enrich Fanny . 
Every thing was explained to him by Mrs. Dashwood , and he found fresh reason to rejoice in what he had done for Mr. Ferrars , since eventually it promoted the interest of Elinor . 
The letters from town , which a few days before would have made every nerve in Elinor 's body thrill with transport , now arrived to be read with less emotion than mirth . 
The secrecy with which everything had been carried on between them , was rationally treated as enormously heightening the crime , because , had any suspicion of it occurred to the others , proper measures would have been taken to prevent the marriage ; and he called on Elinor to join with him in regretting that Lucy 's engagement with Edward had not rather been fulfilled , than that she should thus be the means of spreading misery farther in the family . 
`` You may certainly ask to be forgiven , '' said Elinor , `` because you have offended ; -- and I should think you might now venture so far as to profess some concern for having ever formed the engagement which drew on you your mother 's anger . '' 
Mrs. Ferrars at first reasonably endeavoured to dissuade him from marrying Miss Dashwood , by every argument in her power ; -- told him , that in Miss Morton he would have a woman of higher rank and larger fortune ; -- and enforced the assertion , by observing that Miss Morton was the daughter of a nobleman with thirty thousand pounds , while Miss Dashwood was only the daughter of a private gentleman , with no more than three ; but when she found that , though perfectly admitting the truth of her representation , he was by no means inclined to be guided by it , she judged it wisest , from the experience of the past , to submit -- and therefore , after such an ungracious delay as she owed to her own dignity , and as served to prevent every suspicion of good-will , she issued her decree of consent to the marriage of Edward and Elinor . 
What she would engage to do towards augmenting their income , was next to be considered ; and here it plainly appeared , that though Edward was now her only son , he was by no means her eldest ; for while Robert was inevitably endowed with a thousand pounds a-year , not the smallest objection was made against Edward 's taking orders for the sake of two hundred and fifty at the utmost ; nor was anything promised either for the present or in future , beyond the ten thousand pounds , which had been given with Fanny . 
It was as much , however , as was desired and more than was expected by Edward and Elinor ; and Mrs. Ferrars herself , by her shuffling excuses , seemed the only person surprised at her not giving more . 
With an income quite sufficient to their wants thus secured to them , they had nothing to wait for after Edward was in possession of the living , but the readiness of the house , to which Colonel Brandon , with an eager desire for the accommodation of Elinor , was making considerable improvements ; and after waiting some time for their completion , after experiencing , as usual , a thousand disappointments and delays , from the unaccountable dilatoriness of the workmen , Elinor , as usual , broke through the first positive resolution of not marrying till everything was ready , and the ceremony took place in Barton church early in the autumn . 
Mrs. Jennings 's prophecies , though rather jumbled together , were chiefly fulfilled ; for she was able to visit Edward and his wife in their Parsonage by Michaelmas , and she found in Elinor and her husband , as she really believed , one of the happiest couple in the world . 
Lucy became as necessary to Mrs. Ferrars , as either Robert or Fanny ; and while Edward was never cordially forgiven for having once intended to marry her , and Elinor , though superior to her in fortune and birth , was spoken of as an intruder , she was in everything considered , and always openly acknowledged , to be a favourite child . 
Elinor 's marriage divided her as little from her family as could well be contrived , without rendering the cottage at Barton entirely useless , for her mother and sisters spent much more than half their time with her . 
Precious as was the company of her daughter to her , she desired nothing so much as to give up its constant enjoyment to her valued friend ; and to see Marianne settled at the mansion-house was equally the wish of Edward and Elinor . 
Between Barton and Delaford , there was that constant communication which strong family affection would naturally dictate ; -- and among the merits and the happiness of Elinor and Marianne , let it not be ranked as the least considerable , that though sisters , and living almost within sight of each other , they could live without disagreement between themselves , or producing coolness between their husbands . 
