The hands ceased their working at the gathers , and assuming an air of indifference , Grace rang her silver bell , which was immediately answered by a singular looking girl , whom she addressed as Edith , bidding her bring some orange marmalade from an adjoining closet . 
Edith Hastings was a strange child , with a strange habit of expressing her thoughts aloud , and as she heard the beauties of Collingwood described in Kitty Maynard 's most glowing terms , she suddenly exclaimed , `` Oh , jollydo n't I wish I could live there , only I 'd be afraid of that boy who haunts the upper rooms . '' 
`` Edith ! '' 
Thus rebuked the black-eyed , black-haired , black-faced little girl walked away , not cringingly , for Edith Hastings possessed a spirit as proud as that of her high born mistress , and she went slowly to the kitchen , where , under Rachel 's directions , she was soon in the mysteries of dishwashing , while the ladies in the parlor continued their conversation . 
`` I do n't know what I shall do with that child , '' said Grace , as Edith 's footsteps died away . 
This brought the conversation back from the aspiring Edith to Richard Harrington , and as old Rachel soon came in to remove her mistress ' breakfast , Kitty took her leave , saying as she bade her friend good morning , `` I trust it will not be long before you know him . '' 
Edith Hastings , too , imbued with something of her mistress ' spirit , was on the alert , and when the last train in which they could possibly come , thundered through the town , her quick ear was the first to catch the sound of wheels grinding slowly up the hill . 
she cried ; and p593-018 nimble as a squirrel she climbed the great gate post , where with her elf locks floating about her sparkling face , she sat , while the carriage passed slowly by , then saying to herself , `` Pshaw , it was n't worth the trouble -- I never saw a thing , '' she slid down from her high position , and stealing in the back way so as to avoid the scolding Mrs. Atherton was sure to give her , she crept up to her own chamber , where she stood long by the open window , watching the lights at Collingwood , and wondering if it wouldmake a person perfectly happy to be its mistress and the bride of Richard Harrington . 
The question Edith had asked herself , standing by her chamber window , was answered by Grace Atherton sitting near her own . 
`` I 'll send Edith with my compliments and a bouquet of flowers to the bride . 
Accordingly , the next morning , as Edith sat upon the steps of the kitchen door , talking to herself , Grace appeared before her with a tastefully arranged bouquet , which she bade her take with her compliments to Mrs. Richard Harrington , if there was such a body , and to Mr. Richard Harrington if there were not . 
she asked , and Edith far more interested in her visit to Collingwood than in what she was to do when she reached there , replied , `` Of course I do ; I 'm to give your compliments ; '' and she jammed her hand into the pocket of her gingham apron , as if to make sure the compliments were there . 
Grace groaned aloud , while old Rachel , the colored cook , who on all occasions was Edith 's champion , removed her hands from the dough she was kneading and coming towards them , chimed in , `` She ai n't fairly got it through her har , Miss Grace . 
She 's such a substracted way with her that you mostly has to tell her twicet , '' and in her own peculiar style Rachel succeeded in making the `` substracted '' child comprehend the nature of her errand . 
`` Now do n't go to blunderin ' , '' was Rachel 's parting injunction , as Edith left the yard and turned in the direction of Collingwood . 
I 'm nobody but Edith Hastings , Mrs. Atherton 's waiting maid , and she do n't let me play with boys . 
Only Tim Doolittle and I went huckleberrying once , but I hate him , he has such great warts on his hands , '' and having thus given her opinion of Tim Doolittle , Edith snatched up her bonnet and placed it upon her head , for the old man was evidently determined to touch her crow-black hair . 
Her answer , however , changed the current of his thoughts , and while a look of intense pain flitted across his face , he whispered mournfully , `` The same old story they all tell . 
Mrs. Atherton 's waiting maid , '' and he turned toward Edith -- `` Charlie 's dead , and we all walk in darkness now , Richard and all . '' 
This allusion to Richard reminded Edith of her errand , and thinking to herself , `` I 'll ask the crazy old thing if there 's a lady here , '' she ran after him as he walked slowly away and catching him by the arm , said , `` Tell me , please , is there any Mrs. Richard Harrington ? '' 
Curtesying to her companion , Edith ran off in the direction of the figure moving so slowly down the gravelled walk . 
`` I wonder what makes him set his feet down so carefully , '' she thought , as she came nearer to him . 
The tone of his voice was rather sharp , and Edith paused suddenly , while he made an uncertain movement toward her , still keeping his ear turned in the attitude of intense listening . 
was Edith 's mental comment as the keen black eyes appeared to scan her closely . 
Alas , he was not thinking of her at all , and soon resuming his walk , he whispered to himself , `` They must have gone some other way . '' 
Slowly , cautiously he moved on , never dreaming of the little sprite behind him , who , imitating his gait and manner , put down her chubby bare feet just when his went down , looking occasionally over her shoulder to see if her clothes swung from side to side just like Mrs. Atherton 's , and treading so softly that he did not hear her until he reached the summer-house , when the cracking of a twig betrayed the presence of some one , and again that sad , troubled voice demanded , `` Who is here ? '' 
Edith was growing excited . 
It reminded her of blind man 's buff , and she bent her head to elude the hand which came so near entangling itself in her hair . 
He was a tall , dark , handsome man , with a singular cast of countenance , and Edith felt that she had never seen anything so grand , so noble , and yet so helpless as the man sitting there before her . 
She knew now that he was blind , and she was almost glad that it was so , for had it been otherwise she would never have dared to scan him as she was doing now . 
She would not for the world have met the flash of those keen black eyes , had they not been sightless , and she quailed even now , when they were bent upon her , although she knew their glance was meaningless . 
It seemed to her so terrible to be blind , and she wondered why he should care to have his house and grounds so handsome when he could not see them . 
Still she was pleased that they were so , for there was a singular fitness , she thought , between this splendid man and his surroundings . 
`` I wish he had a little girl like me to lead him and be good to him , '' was her next mental comment , and the wild idea crossed her brain that possibly Mrs. Atherton would let her come up to Collingwood and be his waiting maid . 
This was the first picture brought to his mind by Edith Hastings ' voice . 
He had scarcely thought of her for months , but she came back to him now , and it was Edith 's voice which brought her . 
Meantime Edith kept on her way , pausing once and looking back just in time to see Mr. Harrington kiss the flowers she had brought . 
`` I 'm glad they please him , '' she said ; `` but how awful it is to be blind ; '' and by way of trying the experiment , she shut her eyes , and stretching out her arms , walked just as Richard , succeeding so well that she was begining to consider it rather agreeable than otherwise , when she unfortunately ran into a tall rose-bush , scratching her forehead , tangling her hair , and stubbing her toes against its gnarled roots . 
`` Edith , '' said Mrs. Atherton , who had seen her coming , and hastened out to meet her , `` you were gone a long time , I think . '' 
`` Yes 'm , '' answered Edith , spitting out the bonnet strings she had been chewing , and tossing back the thick black locks which nearly concealed her eyes from view . 
asked Grace ; and Edith returned , `` I do n't know what you call him if ` taint old Darkness ; he kept muttering about the dark , and asked where Charlie was . '' 
This explanation was satisfactory to Grace , who proceeded next to question Edith concerning Mrs. Richard Harrington , asking if she saw her , etc. . 
`` There ai n't any such , '' returned Edith , `` but I saw Mr. Richard . 
interrupted Grace , far more intent upon knowing how her gift had been received , than hearing described the personal appearance of one she had seen so often . 
Edith felt intuitively that a narrative of the particulars attending the delivery of the bouquet would insure her a scolding , so she merely answered , `` He did n't say a word , only kissed them hard , but he ca n't see them , Mrs. Atherton . 
Oh , Edith ; '' and the bright color which had stained Grace 's cheeks when she knew that Richard had kissed her flowers , faded out , leaving them of a pallid hue . 
You are glad he 's in Heaven , you know you be ; and though I never said nothin ' , Iknowd you was glad that Squire Herri n'ton was come back to Collingwood , just as I knowd what made you choke like a chicken with the pip when Edith tole you he was blind . 
asked Edith , fancying it must be something serious which could keep the old negress so long from her bread . 
On ordinary occasions the tolerably discreet African would have made some evasive reply , but with her feathers all ruffled , she belched out , `` The upshot of the matter is , she 's in love ? '' 
Edith had no desire to betray Rachel 's confidence , and slipping one shoulder out of her low dress she darted off after a butterfly , wondering to herself if it made everybody faint and sick at their stomach to be in love ! 
and she stepped into the adjoining apartment just as the nimble Edith disappeared from view . 
`` I shall catch it if she finds me listening , '' thought Edith , as she heard Kitty 's remark , and in her haste to escape she forgot all about Petrea -- all about the lullaby , and remembered nothing save the noble deed of the heroic Richard . 
She must be most as big as I am now ; '' and if it were possible Edith 's eyes grew brighter than their wont as she thought how had shebeen that Swedish child , she would go straight up to Collingwood and be the blind man 's slave . 
She would read to him . 
She would see for him , and when he walked , she would lead him so carefully , removing all the ugly pegs from his boots , and watching to see that he did not stub his toes , as she was always doing in her headlong haste . 
`` What a great good man he is , '' she kept repeating , while at the same time she felt an undefinable interest in the Swedish child , whom at that very moment , Grace Atherton was cursing in her heart as the cause of Richard 's misfortune . 
How she hated that Swedish mother and her child -- how she hated all children then , even the black haired Edith , out in the autumn sunshine , singing to herself a long-forgotten strain , which had come back to her that morning , laden with perfume from the vine-clad hills of Bingen , and with music from the Rhine . 
Edith should be the medium between them . 
Edith should take him flowers every day , until he signified a wish for her to come herself , when she would go , and sitting by his side , would tell him , perhaps , how sad her life had been since that choice of hers made on the shore of the deep sea . 
Then , if he asked her again to share his lonely lot , she would gladly lay her head upon his bosom , and whisper back the word she should have said to him seven years ago . 
It was a pleasant picture of the future which Grace Atherton drew as she lay watching the white clouds come and go over the distant tree tops of Collingwood , and listening to the song of Edith , still playing in the sunshine , and when at dinner time she failed to appear at the ringing of the bell , and Edith was sent in quest of her , she found her sleeping quietly , dreaming of the Swedish babe and Richard Harrington . 
On Richard 's darkened pathway , there wasnow a glimmer of daylight , shed by Edith Hastings ' visit , and with a vague hope that she might come again , he on the morrow groped his way to the summer house , and taking the seat where he sat the previous day , he waited and listened for the footstep on the grass which should tell him she was near . 
Nor did he wait long ere Edith came tripping down the walk , bringing the bouquet which Grace had prepared with so much care . 
dropped involuntarily from her lips , when she descried him , sitting just where she had , without knowing why , expected she should find him , and her footfall became so light that none save the blind could have detected it . 
To Richard there was something half amusing , half ridiculous in the conduct of the capricious child , and for the sake of knowing what she would do , he professed to be ignorant of her presence , and leaning back against the lattice , pretended to be asleep , while Edith came so near that he could hear her low breathing as she stood still to watch him . 
Nothing could please her more than his present attitude , for with his large bright eyes shut she dared to look at him as much and as long as she chose . 
He was to her now a kind of divinity , which she worshipped for the sake of the Swedish baby rescued from a watery grave , and she longed to wind her arms around his neck and tell him how she loved him for that act ; but she dared not , and she contented herself with whispering softly , `` If I was n't so spunky and ugly , I 'd pray every night that God would make you see again . 
It would be impossible to describe the deep pathos of Edith 's voice as she uttered the last three words . 
Slowly the broad chest heaved , and tears , the first he had shed since the fearful morning when they led him into the sunlight he felt but could not see , moistened his lashes , and dropped upon his face . 
`` He 's dreaming a bad dream , '' Edith said , and with her little chubby hand she brushed his tears away , cautiously , lest she should rouse him from his slumbers . 
Softly she put back from the white forehead his glossy hair , taking her own round comb to subdue an obdurate lock , while he was sure that the fingers made more than one pilgrimage to the lips as the little barber found moisture necessary to her task . 
`` There , Mr. Blindman , you look real nice , '' she said , with an immense amount of satisfaction , as she stepped back , the better to inspect the whole effect . 
Maybe , though , I 'll come again to-morrow , '' and placing the bouquet in his hands , she ran away . 
Pausing for a moment , and looking back , she saw Richard again raise to his lips her bouquet , and with a palpitating heart , as she thought , `` what if he wer n't asleep after all ! '' 
Still this was proof that he was pleased , and the infatuated woman persisted in preparing bouquets , which Edith daily carried to Collingwood , going always at the same time , and finding him always in the same spot waiting for her . 
As yet no word had passed between them , for Edith , who liked the novelty of the affair , was so light-footed that she generally managed to slip the bouquet into his hand , and run away ere he had time to detain her . 
One morning , however , near the middle of October , when , owing to a bruised heel , she had not been to see him for more than a week , he sat in his accustomed place , half-expecting her , and still thinking how improbable it was that she would come . 
He had become strangely attached to the little unknown , as he termed her ; he thought of her all the day long , and when , in the chilly evening , he sat before the glowing grate , listening to the monotonous whisperings of his father , he wished so much that she was there beside him . 
His life would not be so dreary then , for in the society of that active , playful child , he should forget , in part , how miserable he was . 
She was blue-eyed , and golden-haired , he thought , with soft , abundant curls veiling her sweet young face ; and he pictured to himself just how she would look , flitting through the halls , and dancing upon the green sward near the door . 
`` Hold your breath with all your might , and see if you ca n't , '' said the voice of Edith Hastings , who had approached him cautiously , and heard his sad soliloquy . 
`` Oh , would n't that be jolly , '' cried Edith , using her favorite expression , `` I 'd read to you , and sing to you , only Rachel says my songs are weird-like , and queer , and maybe you might not like them ; but I 'd fix your hair , and lead you in the smooth places where you would n't jam your heels ; '' and she glanced ruefully at one of hers , bound up in a cotton rag . 
I 'm her little waiting-maid , Edith Hastings . '' 
laughed Edith deprecatingly ; `` do n't you know her ? 
and Edith quailed beneath the fiery glance bent upon her by those black sightless eyes . 
said Edith , as he sprang to his feet and began unsteadily to pace the summer-house . 
This was why he toreso , as Edith had expressed it , but soon growing more calm , he determined to conceal from the quick-witted child the cause of his agitation , and resuming his seat beside her , he asked her many questions concerning Grace Atherton and herself , and as he talked he felt his olden interests in his companion gradually coming back . 
But Edith could tell him nothing . 
The Orphan Asylum was the first home of which she had any vivid remembrance , though it did seem to her she once had lived where the purple grapes were growing rich and ripe upon the broad vine stalk , and where all the day long there was music such as she 'd never heard since , but which came back to her sometimes in dreams , staying long enough for her to catch the air . 
Her mother , the matron told her , had died in New York , and she was brought to the Asylum by a woman who would keep her from starvation . 
This was Edith 's story , told without reserve or the slightest suspicion that the proud man beside her would think the less of her because she had been poor and hungry . 
Neither did he , after the first shock had worn away ; and he soon found himself wishing again that she would come up there and live with him . 
She was a strange , odd child , he knew , and he wondered how she looked . 
He did not believe she was golden-haired and blue-eyed now . 
Still he would not ask her lest he should receive a second disappointment , for he was a passionate admirer of female beauty , and he could not repress a feeling of aversion for an ugly face . 
`` Oh , jolly , '' said Edith , `` I guess she is . 
He made a gesture for Edith to leave , and though she wanted so much to tell him how she loved him for saving that Swedish baby , she forbore until another time , and ran hastily away , repeating his message as she ran lest she should forget it . 
Wo n't it be jolly ? '' 
she exclaimed , as half out of breath she burst into the room where Grace sat reading a letter received by the morning 's mail . 
Grace asked , fancying she had not heard aright , and as Edith repeated the message , there stole into her heart a warm , happy feeling , such as she had not experienced since the orange wreath crowned her maiden brow . 
Edith had not told her exactly what he said , she knew , but it was sufficient that he cared to see her , and she resolved to gratify him , but with something of her olden coquetry she would wait awhile and make him think she was not coming . 
So she said no more to Edith upon the subject , but told her that she was expecting her cousin Arthur St. Claire , a student from Geneva College , that he would be there in a day or two , and while he remained at Brier Hill she wished Edith to try and behave herself . 
`` This Mr. St. Claire , '' said she , `` belongs to one of the most aristocratic Southern families . 
asked Edith , with such a seriously comical manner that Grace had great difficulty to keep from smiling . 
`` Jolly '' was Edith 's pet word , the one she used indiscriminately and on all occasions , sometimes as an interjection , but oftener as an adjective . 
If a thing suited her it was sure to be jolly -- she always insisting that 't was a good proper word , for Marieused it and sheknew . 
Edith was inexorable , and would not even promise to abstain from it during the visit of Arthur St. Claire . 
He could value her , perhaps , as a friend , but Edith 's tale had told him that he to her was more than a friend . 
As they crossed the threshold of the door , he struck his foot against it , and instantly there rang in his ear the words which little Edith had said to him so pityingly , `` Poor blind man ! '' 
Edith Hastings rose up between him and the regal creature waiting so anxiously his coming , and who , when he came and stood before her , in his helplessness , wept like a child . 
was all that she could say , as , seizing the groping hand , she covered it with her tears . 
Victor had disappeared , and she could thus give free vent to her emotions , feeling it almost a relief that the eyes whose glance she once had loved to meet could not witness her grief . 
`` Grace , '' he said at last , the tone of his voice was so cold that she involuntarily dropped his hands and looked him steadily in the face . 
`` It 's true , Richard , true , '' she replied , `` and because I am unhappy I have come to ask your forgiveness if ever word or action , or taunt of mine caused you a moment 's pain . 
I have suffered much since we parted , and my suffering has atoned for all my sin . '' 
`` Come again soon , '' he said , accompanying her to the door , `` and send up that novelty Edith , will you ? '' 
`` Edith , '' muttered Grace , as she swept haughtily down the box-lined walk , and stepped into her carriage . 
`` I 'll send her back to the Asylum , as I live . 
Why did n't she tell me just how it was , and so prevent me from making myself ridiculous ? '' 
She should do or say something unlady-like if she did , and she bade Tom drive her round the village , thus unconsciously giving the offending Edith a longer time in which to entertain and amuse the guest at Brier Hill , for Arthur St. Claire had come . 
Edith was the first to spy him sauntering slowly up the walk , and she watched him curiously as he came , mimicing his gait , and wondering if he did n't feel big . 
`` Nobody 's afraid of you , '' she soliloquised , `` if you do belong to the firstest family in Virginia . '' 
At the first sight of him Edith felt her courage forsaking her , there seemed so wide a gulf between herself and the haughty-looking stranger , and she was about to leave the room when he called after her , bidding her stay , and asking who she was . 
`` I 'm Edith Hastings , '' she answered , dropping into a chair , and awkwardly kicking her heels against the rounds in her embarrassment at having those large , quizzical brown eyes fixed so inquiringly upon her . 
Such was Arthur St. Claire , as he stood coolly inspecting Edith Hastings , who mentally styling him the `` hatefullest upstart '' she ever saw , gave him back a glance as cool and curious as his own . 
`` No I ai n't neither , '' returned Edith , the tears starting in her flashing black eyes . 
`` Spunky , '' was the young man 's next remark , as he advanced a step or two toward her . 
His manner at once disarmed the impulsive Edith of all prejudice , and she replied : `` I told you I was Edith Hastings , Mrs. Atherton 's waiting maid . '' 
Edith sprang to her feet . 
She could not misunderstand the feeling with which he regarded her , and with an air of insulted dignity worthy of Grace herself , she exclaimed , `` Oh , how I hate you , Arthur St. Claire ! 
and the face which at the sight of her anger had dimpled all over with smiles , turned white as Arthur St. Claire asked this question , to which Edith replied : `` Yes ; he 's blind , and he lives up at Collingwood . 
You can see its tower now , '' and she pointed across the fields . 
But Arthur did not heed her , and continued to ply her with questions concerning Mr. Harrington , asking if he had formerly lived near Geneva , in western New York , if he had a crazy father , and if he ever came to Brier Hill . 
Edith 's negative answer to this last query seemed to satisfy him , and when , mistaking his eagerness for a desire to see her divinity , Edith patronizingly informed him that he might go with her some time to Collingwood , he answered her evasively , asking if Richard recognized voices , as most blind people did . 
Edith could not tell , but she presumed he did , for he was the smartest man that ever lived ; and in her enthusiastic praises she waxed so eloquent , using , withal , so good language , that Arthur forgot she was a waiting maid , and insensibly began to entertain a feeling of respect for the sprightly child , whose dark face sparkled and flashed with her excitement . 
She wasa curious specimen , he acknowledged , and he began adroitly to sound the depths of her intellect . 
Edith took the cue at once , and not wishing to be in the background , asked him , as she had at first intended doing , if he 'd read the last new novel . 
Without in the least comprehending whatnovel she meant , Arthur promptly replied that he had . 
`` How did you like it ? '' 
she continued , adjusting her crimson scarf as she had seen Mrs. Atherten do under similar circumstances . 
`` Very much indeed , '' returned the young man with imperturbable gravity , but when with a toss of her head she asked : `` Did n't you think there was too much ' physicsin it ? '' 
Taking advantage of her presence , the crest-fallen Edith crept disconsolately up the stairs , feeling that she had made a most ridiculous mistake , and wondering what the word couldbe that sounded so much like ' physics , and yet was n't that at all . 
She knew she had made herself ridiculous , and was indulging in a fit of crying when Mrs. Atherton returned , delighted to meet her young cousin , in whom she felt a pardonable pride . 
`` Edith , of course , '' said Grace . 
`` It 's just like her . 
`` Rather excelled you , I think , in putting on the fine lady , '' returned the teasing Arthur , who saw at once that Edith Hastings was his fair cousin 's sensitive point . 
Owing to the indisposition of the chambermaid , Edith was one day sent with water to Mr. St. Claire 's room . 
Arthur was absent , but on the table his writing desk lay open , and Edith 's inquisitive eyes were not long in spying a handsome golden locket , left there evidently by mistake . 
Two or three times she had detected him looking at this picture , and with an eager curiosity to see it also , she took the locket in her hand , and going to the window , touched the spring . 
It was a wondrously beautiful face which met her view -- the face of a young girl , whose golden curls rippling softly over her white shoulders , and whose eyes of lustrous blue , reminded Edith of the angels about which Rachel sang so devoutly every Sunday . 
To Edith there was about that face a nameless but mighty fascination , a something which made her warm blood chill and tingle in her veins , while there crept over her a second time dim visions of something far back in the past -- of purple fruit on vine-clad hills -- of music soft and low -- of days and nights on some tossing , moving object -- and then of a huge white building , embowered in tall green trees , whose milk-white blossoms she gathered in her hand ; while distinct from all the rest was this face , on which she gazed so earnestly . 
It is true that all these thoughts were not clear to her mind ; it was rather a confused mixture of ideas , one of which faded ere another came , so that there seemed no real connection between them ; and had she embodied them in words , they would have been recognized as the idle fancies of a strange , old-fashioned child . 
But the picture -- there wassomething in it which held Edith motionless , while her tongue seemed struggling to articulate a name , but failed in the attempt ; and when , at last , her lips did move , they uttered the word Marie , as if she , too , were associated with that sweet young face . 
`` Oh , but she 's jolly , '' Edith said . 
`` I do n't wonder Mr. Arthur loves her , '' and she felt her own heart throb with a strange affection for the beautiful original of that daguerreotype . 
It was Grace herself , Edith thought ; and knowing she would be censured for touching what did not belong to her , she thrust the locket into her bosom , intending to return it as soon as possible , and springing out upon the piazza , scampered away , leaving the water pail to betray her recent presence . 
It was notGrace , as she had supposed , but Arthur St. Claire himself , come to put away the locket , which he suddenly remembered to have left upon the table . 
He did not notice the empty pail the luckless Edith had left , although he stumbled over it twice in his feverish anxiety to find his treasure . 
But what he failed to observe was discovered by Grace , whom he summoned to his aid , and who exclaimed : `` Edith Hastings has been here ! 
`` Edith , Grace , Edith -- it can not be , '' and Arthur 's face indicated plainly the pain it would occasion him to find that it was so . 
`` I hope you may be right , Arthur , but I have not so much confidence in her as you seem to have . 
There she is now , '' continued Grace , spying her across the yard and calling to her to come . 
Blushing , stammering , and cowering like a guilty thing , Edith entered the room , for she heard Arthur 's voice and knew that he was there to witness her humiliation . 
`` Edith , '' said Mrs. Atherton , sternly , `` what have you been doing ? '' 
No answer from Edith save an increase of color upon her face , and with her suspicions confirmed , Grace went on , `` What have you in your pocket ? '' 
`` ` Taint in my pocket ; it 's in my bosom , '' answered Edith , drawing it forth and holding it to view . 
`` How dare you steal it , '' asked Grace , and instantly there came into Edith 's eyes the same fiery , savage gleam from which Mrs. Atherton always shrank , and beneath which she now involuntarily quailed . 
It had never occurred to Edith that she could be accused of theft , and she stamped at first like a little fury , then throwing herself upon the sofa , sobbed out , `` Oh , dear -- oh , dear , I wish God would let me die . 
`` You are a fit subject for Heaven , '' said Mrs. Atherton , scornfully , and instantly the passionate sobbing ceased ; the tears were dried in the eyes which blazed with insulted dignity as Edith arose , and looking her mistress steadily in the face , replied , `` I suppose you think I meant to steal and keep the pretty picture , but the one who was in here with me knows I did n't . '' 
This constant appeal to Arthur , and total disregard of herself , did not increase Mrs. Atherton 's amiability , and taking Edith by the shoulder she attempted to lead her from the room . 
At the door Edith stopped , and said imploringly to Arthur , `` Doyou think I stole it ? '' 
This act of thoughtful kindness touched a tender chord in Edith 's heart , and the pie choked her badly , but she managed to eat it all save the crust , which she tossed into the grass , laughing to see how near it came to hitting Mrs. Atherton , who looked around to discover whence it could possibly have come . 
That night , just before dark , Grace entered Edith 's room , and told her that as Mr. St. Claire , who left them on the morrow , had business in New York , and was going directly there , she had decided to send her with him to the Asylum . 
Edith sat like one stunned by a heavy blow . 
She had not really believed that a calamity she so much dreaded , would overtake her , and the fact that it had , paralyzed her faculties . 
Thinking her in a fit of stubbornness Mrs. Atherton said no more , but busied herself in packing her scanty wardrobe , feeling occasionally a twinge of remorse as she bent over the little red , foreign-looking chest , or glanced at the slight figure sitting so motionless by the window . 
`` Whose is this ? '' 
and like a tigress Edith sprang upon her , and catching the blue-black tress , kissed it passionately , exclaiming , `` 'T is mother 's -- 't is . 
Oh , mother , if I ever had a mother , where are you to-night , when I want you so much ? '' 
She threw herself upon her humble bed , not thinking of Grace , nor yet of the Asylum , but revelling in her new-born joy . 
All this Edith remembered distinctly , and while thinking of it she fell asleep , nor woke to consciousness even when Rachel 's kind old hands undressed her carefully and tucked her up in bed , saying over her a prayer , and asking that Miss Grace 's heart might relent and keep the little girl . 
It had not relented when morning came , and still , when at breakfast , Arthur received a letter , which made it necessary for him to go to New York by way of Albany , she did suggest that it might be too much trouble to have the care of Edith . 
`` Not at all , '' he said ; and half an hour later Edith was called into the parlor , and told to get herself in readiness for the journey . 
`` Oh , I ca n't , I ca n't , '' cried Edith , clinging to Mrs. Atherton 's skirt , and begging of her not to send her back . 
`` I do n't know , '' sobbed Edith , uttering the next instant a scream of joy , as she saw , in the distance , the carriage from Collingwood , and knew that Richard was in it . 
`` I 'm better now , '' he said , returning the salts , and asking why Edith could not go to Collingwood . 
She merely replied that Edith was conceited enough to think Mr. Harrington pleased with her just because he had sometimes talked to her when she carried him flowers . 
`` But of course he do n't care for her , '' she said . 
`` Good bye , Edith , '' said Mrs. Atherton , putting out her jewelled hand ; but Edith would not touch it , and in a tone of voice which sank deep into the proud woman 's heart , she answered : `` You 'll be sorry for this some time . '' 
Old Rachel was in great distress , for Edith was her pet ; and winding her black arms about her neck , she wept over her a simple , heartfelt blessing , and then , as the carriage drove from the gate , ran back to her neglected churning , venting her feelings upon the dasher , which she set down so vigorously that the rich cream flew in every direction , bespattering the wall , the window , the floor , the stove , and settling in large white flakes upon her tawny skin and tall blue turban . 
If anything could have reconciled Edith to her fate , it would have been the fact that she was travelling with Arthur St. Claire , who , after entering the cars , cared for her as tenderly as if she had been a lady of his own rank , instead of a little disgraced waiting maid , whom he was taking back to the Asylum . 
It was preposterous , he thought , for Grace to call one as young as Edith a waiting maid , but it was like her , he knew . 
It had a lofty sound , and would impress some people with a sense of her greatness ; so he could excuse it much more readily than the injustice done to the child by charging her with a crime of which he knew she was innocent . 
This it was , perhaps , which made him so kind to her , seeking to divert her mind from her grief by asking her many questions concerning herself and her family . 
But Edith did not care to talk . 
All the way to Albany she continued crying ; and when , at last , they stood within the noisy depot , Arthur saw that the tears were still rolling down her cheeks like rain . 
he thought , as she placed her hand confidingly in his , and when he saw how hopelessly she looked into his face , as she asked , with quivering lip , if `` it was n't ever so far to New York yet ? '' 
the resolution he had been trying all the day to make was fully decided upon , and when alone with Edith in the room appropriated to her at the Delavan House , he asked her why she supposed Richard Harrington would be willing to take her to Collingwood . 
Very briefly Edith related to him the particulars of her interviews with the blind man , saying , when she had finished , `` Do n't you believe he likes me ? '' 
`` I dare say he does , '' returned Arthur , at the same time asking if she would be afraid to stay alone one night in that great hotel , knowing he was gone ? '' 
and in her terror Edith 's arms wound themselves around the young man 's neck as if she would thus keep him there by force . 
Unclasping her hands , and holding them in his own , Arthur said , `` Listen to me , Edith . 
interrupted Edith , joy beaming in every feature . 
`` If I only knew you meant for sure , '' said Edith , trembling at the thought of being deserted in a strange city . 
Suddenly she started , and looking him earnestly in the face , said to him , `` Do you love that pretty lady in the glass -- the one Mrs. Atherton thinks I stole ? '' 
Arthur turned white but answered her at once . 
Edith by this time had the picture in her hand , and holding it to the light exclaimed , `` Oh , but she 's so jolly , Mr. Arthur . 
`` Certainly , '' he answered , and Edith 's warm red lips pressed the senseless glass , which seemed to smile upon her . 
`` Pretty -- pretty -- pretty N-n-n - Nina ! '' 
she whispered , and in an instant Arthur clutched her so tightly that she cried out with pain . 
he asked in tones so stern and startling that Edith 's senses all forsook her , and trembling with fright she stammered , `` I do n't know , sir -- unless you did . 
Yes , how else should she know , and though he would almost have sworn that name had never passed his lips save in solitude , he concluded he must have dropped it inadvertently in Edith 's hearing , and still holding her by the arm , he said , `` Edith , if I supposed you would repeat the word Nina , either at Collingwood or elsewhere , I certainly should be tempted to leave you here alone . '' 
and Edith clung to him in terror . 
`` Not to Mr. Harrington of all others , '' thought Arthur , but he would not put himself more in Edith 's power than he already was , and feeling that he must trust her to a certain extent , he continued , `` If you stay at Collingwood , I may sometime bring this Nina to see you , but until I do you must never breathe her name to any living being , or say a word of the picture . '' 
`` But Mr. Harrington , '' interrupted the far-seeing Edith , `` He 'll have to know why Mrs. Atherton sent me away . 
he asked , as he noticed the perplexed look of the honest-hearted Edith . 
`` No , '' she answered hesitatingly . 
Oh , Mr. Arthur -- '' and she grasped his hand as firmly as he had held her shoulder . 
`` Heaven forbid , '' answered Arthur , involuntarily turning away from the truthful eyes of the dark-haired maiden pleading with him not to harm the Nina who , over the sea , never dreamed of the scene enacted in that room between the elegant Arthur St. Claire and the humble Edith Hastings . 
`` No , '' said Edith , `` I want her for company . 
Arthur understood her meaning , and answered laughingly , `` Well , keep her then , as a token that I will surely return , '' and pressing a kiss upon the beautiful picture , he left the room , while Edith listened with a beating heart , until the sound of his footsteps had died away . 
Then a sense of dreariness stole over her ; the tears gathered in her eyes , and she sought by a one-sided conversation with her picture to drive the loneliness away . 
Jolly Nina ! '' 
Where was it ? '' 
she asked herself as Nina , her mother and Marie were all mingled confusedly together in her mind ; and while seeking to solve the mystery , the darkness deepened in the room , the gas lamps were lighted in the street , and with a fresh shudder of loneliness Edith crept into the bed , and nestling down among her pillows , fell asleep with Nina pressed lovingly to her bosom . 
At a comparatively early hour next morning , the door of her room , which had been left unfastened , was opened , and a chambermaid walked in , starting with surprise at sight of Edith , sitting up in bed , her thick black hair falling over her shoulders , and her large eyes fixed inquiringly upon her . 
`` An , sure , '' she began , `` is it a child like you staying here alone the blessed night ? 
`` I hai n't no folks , '' answered Edith , holding fast to the locket , and chewing industriously the bit of gumwhich Rachel , who knew her taste , had slipped into her pocket at parting . 
`` A man brought me , '' returned Edith . 
and Edith laughed scornfully . 
But he 's got the teentiest whiskers growing you ever saw , '' and Edith 's nose went up contemptuously at Arthur 's darling mustache . 
`` I do n't believe he 's twenty , '' she continued , `` and little girl 's pa 's must be older than that I guess , and have bigger whiskers . '' 
asked Lois , her manner indicating so much real interest that Edith repeated her entire history up to the present time , excepting , indeed , the part pertaining to the locket held so vigilantly in her hand . 
She had taken a picture belonging to Mr. Arthur , she said , and as Lois did not ask what picture , she was spared any embarrassment upon that point . 
`` You 're a mighty queer child , '' said Lois , when the narrative was ended ; `` but I 'll see that you have good care till he comes back ; '' and it was owing , in a measure , to her influence , that the breakfast and dinner carried up to Edith was of a superior quality , and comprised in quantity far more than she could eat . 
she asked herself repeatedly , until at p593-058 last , worn out with watching and waiting , she laid her head upon the side of the bed , and fell asleep , resting so quietly that she did not hear the rapid step in the hall , the knock upon the door , the turning of the knob , or the cheery voice which said to her : `` Edith , are you asleep ? '' 
More than once during the rapid journey , Arthur had half resolved to turn back and not run the fearful risk of being recognized by Richard Harrington , but the remembrance of Edith 's mute distress should he return alone , emboldened him to go on and trust to Providence , or , if Providence failed , trust to Richard 's generosity not to betray his secret . 
You know Edith Hastings , the little girl who lived with Mrs. Atherton ? '' 
He thought by introducing Edith at once to divert the blind man from himself , but Richard 's quick ear had caught a tone not wholly unfamiliar as he replied , `` Yes , I know Edith Hastings , and it seems to me I ought to know you , too . 
But you spoke of Edith Hastings . 
I am much interested in her and wonder she has not been here long ere this . 
What would you tell me of her ? '' 
Briefly Arthur related the particulars of his visit at Brier Hill , a visit which had ended so disastrously to Edith , and even before he reached the important point , Richard answered promptly , `` She shall come here , I need her . 
I want her -- want her for my sister , my child . 
It can not be , she is too young , too merry-hearted , too full of life and love to be brought into the shadow of our household . 
She would die upon my hands . 
Her voice would grow sadder and more mournful with the coming of every season , until at last when I had learned to love her as my life , I should some morning listen for what would never greet my ear again . 
A crazy old man and his blind son are not fit guardians for a child like Edith Hastings . 
She must not walk in our darkness . '' 
`` But might not her presence bring daylight to that darkness ? '' 
`` She might , '' said Richard . 
`` Yes , she might bring the full rich daylight to us , but on her the shadow would fall with a fearful blackness if she linked her destiny with mine . 
Young man , do you like Edith Hastings , if so , take her yourself , and if money -- '' Arthur here interrupted him with , `` I have money of my own , sir ; but I have no home at present . 
I can do nothing with her there , but -- '' and his voice sunk almost to a whisper . 
`` Years hence , I hope to have a home , and then , if you are tired of Edith I will take her . 
But to return to Edith Hastings . 
My heart wants her so much , while my better judgment rebels against it . 
Will she be greatly disappointed if I refuse ? '' 
There was an upward flashing of the keen black eyes , a flush upon the high , white forehead , and Richard impatiently stamped upon the floor as he answered proudly , `` She comes as an equal , or not at all . 
She shall be as highly educated and as thoroughly accomplished as if the blood of the Harringtons flowed in her veins . '' 
`` Then take her , '' and Arthur seemed more anxious than before . 
`` She will do justice to your training . 
She will be wondrously beautiful . 
You will not be ashamed of her , and who knows but some day -- '' Arthur began to stammer , and at last managed to finish with , `` There is notsuch a vast difference in your ages . 
Twenty-one years is nothing when weighed against the debt of gratitude she will owe you -- '' `` There , I 've made a fool of myself , '' he thought , as he saw the forehead tie itself up in knots , and the corners of the mouth twitch with merriment . 
Edith Hastings will never be my wife . 
But she shall come to Collingwood . 
I will return with you and bring her back myself . '' 
asked Victor in much surprise , and Richard replied , `` Yes , without you , '' adding in an aside to Arthur , `` Victor is so much accustomed to waiting upon me that he thinks himself necessary to every movement , but I 'd rather travel alone with Edith , she 'll do as well as Victor , and I have a fancy to keep my movements a secret , at least until the child is fairly in the house . 
`` I believe even I might be happy if both you and Edith could live with me , '' he said , at last , when Albany was reached , and they were ascending the steps to the Delevan . 
`` Poor little Edith , '' rejoined Arthur , `` I wonder if she has been very lonely ? 
Shall we go to her at once ? '' 
`` Yes , '' answered Richard , and leaning on Arthur 's arm , he proceeded to the door of Edith 's room . 
`` Oh , Mr. Arthur , you did come back , '' and forgetting , in her great joy , that Arthur was a gentleman , and she a waiting-maid , Edith wound her arms around his neck , and kissed him twice ere he well knew what she was doing . 
`` Yes , forty hundred , if you like , '' and in her delight Edith danced about the room like one insane . 
Thrusting the locket slily into Arthur 's hand , she whispered . 
`` I slept with her last night , and dreamed it was not the first time either . 
Will you ask her when you see her if she ever knew me ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' he answered , making a gesture for her to stop as Richard was about to speak . 
`` Edith , '' said Richard , winding his arm around her , `` Edith , I have come to take you home -- to take you to Collingwood to live with me . 
asked Edith , who , now that what she most desired was just within her reach , began like every human being to see goblins in the path . 
It was a very pleasant ride to Edith , pleasanter than when she came with Arthur , but a slight headache made her drowsy , and leaning on Richard 's arm she fell asleep , nor woke until West Shannondale was reached . 
Accordingly his first act at the depot was to tread upon her toes , pretending he did not see her , but Edith knew he did it purposely , and while her black eyes blazed with anger , she exclaimed , `` You wretch , how dare you be so rude ? '' 
Assisting Richard into the carriage , Victor was about to turn away , leaving Edith to take care of herself , when with all the air of a queen , she said to him , `` Help me in , sir . 
An hour 's drive brought them to the gate of Collingwood , and Edith was certainly pardonable if she did cast a glance of exultation in the direction of Brier Hill , as they wound up the gravelled road and through the handsome grounds of what henceforth was to be her home . 
`` I guess Mrs. Atherton will be sorry she acted so , '' she thought , and she was even revolving the expediency of putting on airs and not speaking to her former mistress , when the carriage stopped and Victor appeared at the window all attention , and asking if he should `` assist Miss Hastings to alight . '' 
In the door Mrs. Matson was waiting to receive them , rubbing her gold-bowed spectacles and stroking her heavy silk with an air which would have awed a child less self-assured than Edith . 
Nothing grand or elegant seemed strange or new to her . 
On the contrary she took to it naturally as if it were her native element , and now as she stepped upon the marble floor of the lofty hall she involuntarily cut a pirouette , exclaiming , `` Oh , but is n't this jolly ! 
What a splendid room to sing in , '' and she began to warble a wild , impassioned air which made Richard pause and listen , wondering whence came the feeling which so affected him carrying him back to the hills of Germany . 
Mrs. Matson had seen Edith at Brier Hill , but this did not prevent her from a close scrutiny as she conducted her to the large , handsome chamber , which Richard in his hasty directions of the previous morning had said was to be hers , and which , with its light , tasteful furniture , crimson curtains , and cheerful blazing fire seemed to the delighted child a second paradise . 
asked Mrs. Matson , with a great deal of dignity ; but ere Edith could reply , Victor , who came up with the foreign chest , chimed in , `` She means pretty , Madame Matson , and understands French , no doubt . 
and he turned to Edith , who , while recognizing something familiar in the sound , felt sure he was making fun of her and answered back , `` Parley voo fool!I 'll tell Mr. Harrington how you tease me . '' 
Laughing aloud at her reply , Victor put the chest in its place , made some remark concerning its quaint appearance , and bowed himself from the room , saying to her as he shut the door , `` Bon soir , Mademoiselle . '' 
`` I 've heard that kind of talk before , '' thought Edith , as she began to brush her hair , preparatory to going down to supper , which Mrs. Matson said was waiting . 
And preposterous as the idea seemed , the old man siezed upon it at once , smoothing Edith 's hair when he saw her , tapping her rosy cheeks , calling her Charlie , and muttering to himself of the wonderful process which had transformed his fair-haired boy into a black-haired girl . 
The day following Edith 's arrival at Collingwood there was a long consultation between Richard and Victor concerning the little girl , about whose personal appearance the former would now know something definite . 
`` How does Edith Hastings look ? '' 
he asked , and after a moment of grave deliberation , Victor replied , `` She has a fat round face , with regular features , except that the nose turns up somewhat after the spitfire order , and her mouth is a trifle too wide . 
Her forehead is not very high -- it would not become her style if it were . 
Her hair is splendid -- thick , black and glossy as satin , and her eyes , -- there are not words enough either in the French or English language with which to describe her eyes -- they are so bright and deep that nobody can look into them long without wincing . 
I should say , sir , if put on oath , there was a good deal of the deuce in her eyes . '' 
`` When she is excited , you mean , '' interrupted Richard . 
`` I like her eyes , '' said Richard , `` but go on . 
Tell me of her complexion . '' 
On the whole I should n't wonder if in seven or eight years ' time she 'd be as handsome as the young lady of Collingwood ought to be . '' 
`` How should she be dressed ? '' 
`` She should have scarlet and crimson and dark blue trimmed with black , '' said Victor , adding that he presumed Mrs. Atherton would willingly attend to those matters . 
`` Do n't tell her what I want , '' he said , `` I wish to surprise her with a sight of Edith . '' 
As Rachel said , Grace had gone to New York , and the object of her going was to repair the wrong done to Edith Hastings , by taking her a second time from the Asylum , and bringing her back to Brier Hill . 
Day and night the child 's parting words , `` You 'll be sorry sometime , '' rang in her ears , until she could endure it no longer , and she astonished the delighted Rachel by announcing her intention of going after the little girl . 
`` Edith Hastings ! '' 
Springing from the stool and advancing towards Grance , Edith replied , `` I live here . 
and she turned to Richard , who had entered in time to hear the last of her remarks . 
There was a world of love in the sightless eyes turned toward the little girl , and by that token , Grace Atherton knew that Edith had spoken truly . 
`` Run away , Edith , '' he said , `` I wish to talk with the lady alone . '' 
Edith obeyed , and when she was gone Richard explained to Grace what seemed to her so mysterious , while she in return confessed the injustice done to the child , and told how she had sought to repair the wrong . 
`` I am glad you have taken her , '' she said . 
`` She will be happier with you than with me , for she likes you best . 
I think , too , she will make good use of any advantages you may give her . 
She has a habit of observing closely , while her powers of imitation are unsurpassed . 
She is fond of elegance and luxury , and nothing can please her more than to be an equal in a house like this . 
In a few words Richard stated his wishes that she should attend to Edith 's wardrobe , saying he had but little faith in Mrs. Matson 's taste . 
He could not have selected a better person to spend his money than Grace , who , while purchasing nothing out of place , bought always the most expensive articles in market , and when at last the process was ended , and the last dressmaker gone from Collingwood , Victor , with a quizzical expression upon his face , handed his master a bill for five hundred dollars , that being the exact amount expended upon Edith 's wardrobe . 
Accordingly , in less than a week there came to Collingwood a Boston governess , armed and equipped with all the accomplishments of the day ; and beneath the supervision of Richard and Victor , Grace Atherton and Mrs. Chapen , Edith 's education began . 
Eight times have the Christmas fires been kindled on the hearths of Shannondale 's happy homes ; eight times the bell from St Luke 's tower has proclaimed an old year dead , and a new one born ; eight times the meek-eyed daisy struggling through the April snow , has blossomed , faded and died ; eight times has summer in all her glowing beauty sat upon the New England hills , and the mellow autumnal light of the hazy October days falls on Collingwood for the eighth time since last we trod the winding paths and gravelled walks where now the yellow leaves are drifting down from the tall old maples and lofty elms , and where myriad flowers of gorgeous hue are lifting their proud heads unmindful of the November frosts hastening on apace . 
It is now the afternoon of a mild October day , and the doors and windows are opened wide to admit the warm south wind , which , dallying for a moment with the curtains of costly lace , floats on to the chamber above , where it toys with the waving plumes a young girl is arranging upon her riding hat , pausing occasionally to speak to the fair blonde who sits watching her movements , and whose face betokens a greater maturity than her own , for Grace Atherton 's family Bible says she is thirty-two , while Edith is seventeen . 
Beautiful Edith Hastings . 
Eight years of delicate nurture , tender care and perfect health have ripened her into a maiden of wondrous beauty , and far and near the people talk of the blind man 's ward , the pride and glory of Collingwood . 
Edith knows that she is beautiful ! 
Those tresses are beautiful , but not so beautiful as Edith 's . 
Her blue-black hair is thicker , glossier , more abundant than in her childhood , and is worn in heavy braids or bands around her head , adding greatly to her regal style of beauty . 
Edith has a pardonable pride in her satin hair , and as she stands before the mirror she steals an occasional glance at her crowning glory , which is this afternoon arranged with far more care than usual ; not for any particular reason , but because she had a fancy that it should be so . 
Edith 's heart always beat faster when she heard his name , for Arthur St. Claire was one of the links of the past which still lingered in her remembrance . 
She had never seen him since they parted in Albany , and after his leaving college she lost sight of him entirely . 
Latterly , however , she had heard from Grace , who knew but little more of him than herself , that he was coming into their very neighborhood ; that he had purchased Grassy Spring , and was to keep a kind of bachelor 's hall , inasmuch as he had no wife , nor yet a prospect of any . 
So much Edith knew and no more . 
`` Been disappointed , probably , '' suggested Edith , still thinking of Nina , and wondering if Arthur did love her so very much as to put faith in no one because of her treachery . 
and the rich bloom on Edith 's cheek deepened to a scarlet hue , which Grace did not fail to notice . 
Her friendship for Edith Hastings had been a plant of sluggish growth , for she could not , at once , bring herself to treat as an equal one whom she formerly held as a servant , but time and circumstances had softened her haughty pride , while Edith 's growing popularity , both in the village and at Collingwood , awakened in her a deep interest for the young girl , who , meeting her advances more than half the way , compelled her at last to surrender , and the two were now as warm friends as individuals well can be when there is between them so great a disparity of years and so vast a difference in disposition . 
This it was which prompted her to speak of Richard 's disappointment ; and when she saw the effect produced upon Edith , it emboldened her to go on , and tell how , years and years ago , when Richard Harrington first went to Europe , he had sued for the hand of a young girl whom he met there , and who , while loving him dearly , shrank from walking in his shadow , and gave herself to another . 
`` My curse be on the woman 's head who wrought this ruin , then , '' said Edith , her black eyes flashing with something of their former fire . 
Edith had cursed her to her face , and with a sigh audible only to herself she arose and said laughingly , `` It 's time we were off , and you 've certainly admired that figure in the glass long enough . 
`` Why , '' returned Edith , in the same light , bantering tone , `` I think I 'm rather jolie , as I used to say . 
`` See rather that you do not marry your father , '' retorted Grace , following Edith as she tripped down the stairs and down the walk , whipping the tufts of box as she went , and answering to Grace who asked if she did not sometimes find her duties irksome at Collingwood . 
Why , Mrs. Atherton , you ca n't imagine how his dark features light up with joy , when on his return from riding or from transacting business he hears me in the hall , and knows that I am there to meet him , '' and Edith 's bright face sparkled and glowed as she thought how often the blind man had blessed her with his sightless but speaking eyes , when she gave up some darling project which would take her from his side and stayed to cheer his solitude . 
They had mounted their horses by this time , and at the speed which characterized Edith 's riding , dashed down the road and struck into the woods , the shortest route to Grassy Spring . 
With the exception of Collingwood , Grassy Spring was the handsomest country seat for miles around , and thinking , as she continually did , of Nina , Edith rather gave it the preference as she passed slowly through the grounds and drew near to the building . 
`` Do n't go , '' whispered Edith , pulling at Grace 's dress . 
But Grace felt no such scruples , and was already across the threshold , leaving Edith by the door . 
`` It 's as bad to look in as to go in , '' thought Edith , and conquering her curiosity with a mighty effort , she walked resolutely down stairs , having seen nothing save that the carpet was of the richest velvet and that the windows had across them slender iron bars , rather ornamental than otherwise , and so arranged as to exclude neither light nor air . 
Ottomans , divans and footstools were scattered about -- pictures and mirrors adorned the walls , while in one corner , covered with a misty veil of lace , hung the portrait of a female in the full , rich bloom of womanhood , her light chestnut curls falling about her uncovered neck , and her dreamy eyes of blue having in them an expression much like that which Edith had once observed in Nina 's peculiar eyes . 
Mrs. Johnson promised obedience , and turning the rusty key , followed her visitor down the two long flights of stairs , she , returning to her duties , while Grace went to the pleasant library , where , with her hat and whip upon the floor , Edith sat reading the book she had ventured to take from the well-filled shelves , and in which she had been so absorbed as not to hear the slight rustling in the adjoining room , where a young man was standing in the enclosure of the deep bay window , and gazing intently at her . 
He had heard from Mrs. Johnson 's daughter that some ladies were going over the house , and not caring to meet them , he stepped into the recess of the window just as Edith entered the library . 
As the eye of the stranger fell upon her , he came near uttering an exclamation of surprise that anything so graceful , so queenly , and withal so wondrously beautiful , should be found in Shannondale , which , with his city ideas still clinging to him , seemed like an out-of-the-way place , where the girls were buxom , good-natured and hearty , just as he remembered Kitty Maynard to have been , and not at all like this creature of rare loveliness sitting there before him , her head inclined gracefully to the volume she was reading , and showing to good advantage her magnificent hair . 
he thought , and a thrill of unwonted admiration ran through his veins as Edith raised for a moment her large eyes of midnight blackness , and from his hiding-place he saw how soft and mild they were in their expression . 
`` Edith Hastings ! '' 
Well may the blind man be proud of his proteg . 
`` Oh , Edith , '' she began , `` you do n't know what you lost by being over squeamish . 
Anxiously the young man awaited Edith 's answer , his face aglow with indignation and his eyes flashing with anger . 
`` Fortunate for you , perhaps , '' returned Edith , tying on her riding-hat , `` but I would n't have gone in for anything . '' 
`` Because , '' said Edith , `` Mr. St. Claire evidently did not wish any one to go in , and I think Mrs. Johnson was wrong in opening the door . '' 
returned Grace , playfully caressing the rosy cheeks of Edith , who had now joined her in the hall . 
This done , and his future course decided upon , the indignant young man felt better , and began again to think of Edith Hastings , whom he admired for her honorable conduct in refusing to enter a place where she had reason to think she was not wanted . 
It is Edith Hastings singing one of her wild songs , and as the full rich melody of her wonderful voice falls upon his ear , Arthur St. Claire bows his head upon his hands and weeps , for the music carries him back to the long ago when he had no terrible secret haunting every hour , but was as light-hearted as the maiden whom , as she gallops away on her swift-footed Arabian , he looks after , with wistful eyes , watching her until the sweep of her long riding-skirt and the waving of her graceful plumes disappear beneath the shadow of the dim woods , where night is beginning to fall . 
It was too late for Grace to call , and bidding her companion good-bye , she galloped down the hill , while Edith , in a meditative mood , suffered her favorite Bedouinto walk leisurely up the carriage road which led to the rear of the house . 
`` Victor Dupres ! '' 
she exclaimed , as a tall figure emerged from the open door and came forward to meet her . 
and taking the little foot from out the shoe he lifted her carefully from the saddle . 
`` Is hehere ? '' 
interrupted Edith , who had puzzled her brain not a little with regard to the business which had taken Richard so suddenly from home . 
` Where 's Edith ? ' 
Edith sighed , not because she felt the bands to which Victor had alluded , but because she reproached herself for not having been there to welcome the blind man home when she knew how much he thought of these little attentions . 
`` I 'll make amends though , now , '' she said , and remembering the story of his disappointment , her heart swelled with a fresh feeling of pity for the helpless Richard , who , sitting before the blazing fire in the library , did not hear the light step coming so softly toward him . 
All the way from the station , and indeed all the way from New York , he had pictured to himself Edith 's sylphlike form running down the steps to meet him ; had felt her warm hands in his , heard her sweet voice welcoming him home again , and the world around him was filled with daylight , for Edith was the sun which shone upon his darkness . 
She was dearer to him now , if possible , than when he left Collingwood , for , during his absence he had learned that which , if she knew it , would bind her to him by cords of gratitude too strong to be lightly broken . 
Sheowed everything to him , and he , alas , he groaned when he thought whathe owed to her , but he loved her all the same , and this it was which added to the keenness of his disappointment when among the many feet which hastened out to meet him , he listened for hers in vain . 
There , let me smooth the ugly wrinkles away , they make you look so cross and old , '' and the little fingers he vainly tried to clasp , wandered caressingly over the knit brows , while , for the first time since people began to call her Miss Hastings , Edith 's lips touched his . 
Nor was she sorry when she saw how beautiful the lovelight broke all over the dark , stern face , irradiating every feature , and giving to it an expression almost divine . 
`` It is not often you grant me such a treat , '' and he held her arms about his neck until she pressed her lips once more against his own . 
Then he released her , and making her sit down beside him , rested his hand upon her shining hair , while he asked her how she had busied herself in his absence , if she had missed the old dark cloud , a bit , and if she was not sorry to have him back . 
He knew just what her answer would be , and when it was given , he took her face between his hands , and turning it up toward him , said , `` I 'd give all Collingwood , darling , just to look once into your eyes and see if -- '' then , apparently changing his mind , he added , `` see if you are pleased with what I 've brought you , look ; '' and taking from his pocket a square box he displayed to her view an entire set of beautiful pearls . 
and he placed some of them amid the braids of her dark hair . 
Like all girls of seventeen , Edith was in raptures , nor could he make her sit still beside him until , divested of her riding habit , she had tried the effect of the delicate ornaments , bracelets , ear-rings , necklace and all . 
`` I am so glad you like them , '' he said , and he did enjoy it very much , sitting there and listening to her as she danced about the room , uttering little girlish screams of delight , and asking Victor , when at last he came in -- `` if she was n't irresistible ? '' 
Victor feltthat she was , and in his polite French way he complimented her , until Richard bade him stop , telling him `` she was already spoiled with flattery . '' 
The pearls being laid aside and Victor gone , Edith resumed her accustomed seat upon a stool at Richard 's feet , and folding both hands upon his knee , looked into his face , saying , `` Well , monsieur , why did you go off to New York so suddenly ? 
He hesitated a moment as if uncertain whether to tell her or not ; then said to her abruptly , `` You 've heard , I believe , of the little child whom I saved from drowning ? '' 
`` Yes , '' she answered . 
`` Edith , I have found her , '' and the nervous hands pressed tenderly upon the beautiful head almost resting in his lap . 
`` Found her ! '' 
and Edith sprang to her feet , her large eyes growing larger , but having in them no shadow of suspicion . 
`` Where did you find her ? 
Where is she now ? 
What is her name ? 
Why did n't you bring her home ? '' 
and out of breath with her rapid questioning , Edith sat down again , while Richard laughingly replied , `` Where shall I begin to answer all your queries ? 
I found out all about her in New York . '' 
`` That explains your scouring the alleys and lanes as Victor said you did , '' interrupted Edith , and Richard rejoined rather sharply , `` What does heknow about it ? '' 
`` Nothing , nothing , '' returned Edith , anxious to shield Victor from his master 's anger . 
Go on -- what is her name ? '' 
`` Eloise Temple . 
Her mother was a Swede , and her father an American , much older than his wife . '' 
Edith repeated it three times . 
Eloise is an orphan , Edith , '' and again the broad hand touched the shining hair , pityingly this time , while the voice which spoke of the mother was sad and low . 
Suddenly a strange , fanciful idea flashed on Edith 's mind , and looking into Richard 's face she asked , `` How old is Eloise ? '' 
Edith nodded to the bright face on the mirror opposite , and the bright face nodded back as much as to say , `` I knew 't was so . '' 
`` Was she really handsome , this Mrs. Temple ? '' 
Instinctively the hands of the blind man met together round Edith 's graceful neck , as he told her how beautiful that Swedish mother was , with her glossy , raven hair , and her large , soft , lustrous eyes , and as he talked , there crept into Edith 's heart a strange , inexplicable affection for that fair young Swede , who Richard said was not as happy with her father-husband as she should have been , and who , emigrating to another land , had died of a homesick , broken heart . 
`` I am sorry I cursed her to-day , '' thought Edith , her tears falling fast to the memory of the lonely , homesick woman , the mother of Eloise . 
`` Then Iought to go away , '' said Edith promptly , her bosom swelling with a dread lest she should eventually have to go . 
You loved her mother , you know , and you 'd rather have her than me , would n't you ? '' 
She held both his hands now within her own . 
She bent her face upon them , and he felt her tears trickling through his fingers . 
Surely he was not to blame if , forgetting himself for the moment , he wound his arms about her and hugging her to his bosom , told her that of all the world shewas the one he most wanted there at Collingwood , there just where she was now , her head upon his shoulder , her cheek against his own . 
Once she felt slightly startled , his words were so fraught with tender passion , but regarding him as her father , or at least her elder brother , she could not believe he intended addressing her save as his sister or his child , and releasing herself from his embrace , she slid back upon her stool and said , `` I 'm glad you 're willing I should stay . 
I 've been so happy here , and found in you so kind a father . '' 
She wouldsay that last word , and she did , never observing that Richard frowned slightly as if it were to him an unwelcome sound . 
Presently Edith went on , `` I think , though , this Eloise ought to come , too , no matter how pleasant a home she has . 
`` Every thing , Edith ? 
`` Why , Edith , why ? '' 
`` Because , returned Edith , `` I should not care to be under so great obligations to any one . 
I am glad you suggested this , Edith ; very , very glad , and now let us talk no more of Eloise . '' 
`` Ah , but I must , '' cried Edith . 
`` So am I if I ca n't hear the whole , '' returned Edith , beginning to pout . 
`` I didintend to tell you all when I began , '' said Richard , `` but I 've changed my mind , and Edith , I have faith to believe you will not repeat to any one our conversation . 
Edith saw that he was in earnest , and knowing how useless it would be to question him further , turned her back upon him and gazing steadily into the fire , was wondering what made him so queer , when by way of diverting her mind , he said , `` Did Victor tell you that Mr. St. Claire came with us all the way from New York ? '' 
`` Mr. St. Claire , no , '' and Edith brightened at once , forgetting all about Eloise Temple . 
Edith asked , pettishly , and Richard replied , `` No , Edith , I need you more than Arthur ever can , and you 'll stay with me , too , stay always , wo n't you ? 
He knew this half jealous feeling was unworthy of him , and with a mighty effort he shook it off , and saying to Edith , calmly , `` Mr. St. Claire asked many questions concerning you and your attainments , and when I spoke of your passion for drawing , lamenting that since Miss Chapin 's departure , there was in town no competent instructor , he offered to be your teacher , provided you would come up there twice a week . 
and Edith laughed merrily , at the same time asking if Richard had accepted the offer . 
But neither Eloise nor Arthur left the minds of either Richard or Edith , and while in her sleep that night the latter dreamed of the gentle Eloise , who called her sister , and from whom Arthur St. Claire strove to part her , the former tossed restlessly upon his pillow , moaning to p593-094 himself , `` I am glad I did not tell her . 
The next morning as the family at Collingwood sat at their rather late breakfast a note was brought to Richard , who immediately handed it to Edith . 
Breaking the seal , and glancing at the name at the end , she exclaimed , `` It 's from Mr. St. Claire , and he says , -- let me see : `` Dear Sir : -- A wholly unexpected event makes it necessary for me to be absent from home for the next few weeks . 
asked Edith , as she finished reading this note aloud . 
`` Wishes me , in short , to perform a servant 's duty , '' said Edith , haughtily . 
and in spite of Richard 's remonstrances , she seized a pen and dashed off the following : `` Dear Sir , -- Miss Hastings accepts the great honor of looking after your house , and will see that nothing gets mouldy during your absence . 
`` Edith ! '' 
Edith stood a moment irresolute , while her eyes flashed with indignation , but she had been too long accustomed to obey the man , who , groping his way to her side , stood commandingly before her to resist his authority now , and mechanically tearing the note in pieces , she tossed them into the fire . 
`` Victor , '' said Richard , wishing to spare Edith the mortification of writing a second answer , `` tell the man from Grassy Spring that Mr. St. Claire can leave his keys at Collingwood . '' 
Victor departed with the message , and Edith , somewhat recovered from her pet , said , `` Is n't it queer , though , that Mr. St. Claire should ask to leave his keys with me ? 
Toward the middle of the afternoon , the keys of Collingwood were delivered to Edith , together with a sealed note , containing a single line , `` The broken key unlocks the Den . '' 
`` What do I care , '' she said , `` which unlocks the Den . 
and she was still wondering over the message when Grace Atherton was announced . 
As she grew older Grace assumed a more familiar , youthful manner than had characterized her early womanhood , and now , tossing her riding hat and whip upon the bed , she sank into Edith 's easy chair and began : `` The funniest thing imaginable has happened at Grassy Spring . 
I did n't go in , '' interrupted Edith , and Grace continued , `` Well , shown me , then , though I think you might at least share in the disgrace . 
asked Edith , and Grace replied , `` Well , not exactly that . 
Edith thought the facts would warrant such a conclusion , and Grace went on . 
she asked , quickly , as she saw a peculiar smile on Edith 's lip . 
`` Yes , '' Edith answered , feeling the while soglad that Richard had prevented her from sending that insulting note . 
It evinced a preference in Arthur for Edith Hastings , and on her way home she busied herself in building castles of the future , when Edith , as the wife of Arthur and mistress of Grassy Spring , would cease to be her rival . 
As Grace had said , Mrs. Johnson and Rose , her daughter , were dismissed , the house was shut up , the owner gone , the keys in Edith 's possession , and for many days the leaves of crimson and of gold drifted down upon the walks and lay piled beneath the windows and upon the marble steps , where they rested undisturbed , save when the evening wind whirled them in fantastic circles and then sent them back again to their first lodging place . 
Occasionally Edith , on her spirited Bedouin , rode slowly by , glancing at the grounds and garden , where so many flowers were blossoming for naught , and then gazing curiously at the latticed windows looking out toward Collingwood . 
She knew which ones they were , though the blinds were closed tightly over them , and she wondered if the mystery of that room would ever be revealed to her . 
Once , as she was riding by , she saw a stranger standing upon the steps of the front door and pulling vehemently at the silver knob which brought him no response . 
Reining Bedouin at the gate she waited until the gentleman , tired of ringing , came slowly down the walk , apparently absorbed in some perplexing thought . 
He did not see her until almost upon her , when , bowing politely , he said , `` I beg your pardon , Miss. . 
`` He has gone to Florida , '' she answered , `` and will not return for some weeks . '' 
asked Edith , and he replied , `` Yes , a friend lies very sick in the -- '' he paused a moment , looked searchingly at Edith , and added , `` in Worcester . 
Edith thought of Nina , thought of the Den , thought of every thing , except that the man seemed waiting for her to speak . 
`` Wo n't be home for some weeks , '' he said at last , as she continued silent , `` And you do n't know where a letter would reach him ? '' 
The stranger scrutinized her closely a second time ere he replied , `` Tell him Griswold has been here and wishes him to come to Worcester at once . '' 
Edith was mortal , nay more , was a genuine descendant of mother Eve , and with a feeling akin to what that fair matron must have felt when she wondered how those apples did taste , she said to the man , `` Who shall I say is sick ? '' 
It would seem that Edith , too , was imbued with something of the spirit which prompted him to say , `` Poor Arthur , '' for she involuntarily sighed , and casting another glance at the windows of the den , gave loose rein to Bedouin and galloped swiftly down the road . 
The carriage was accordingly brought out , and in half an hour 's time Richard and Edith were treading the deserted rooms , into which they let the warm sunlight by opening wide the windows , all save those of one chamber . 
Edith did not go near the Den , and she marvelled that Arthur should have given her its key , indicating which it was . 
She did not know that the rather peculiar young man had lain for her a snare , by which means he would surely know how far her curiosity had led her . 
He might have spared himself the trouble , for Edith was the soul of honor , and nothing could have induced her to cross the proscribed threshold . '' 
He liked to know that Edith was contented with Collingwood ; contented with him ; and he hoped it would be so always . 
He could not bear the thought that he had suffered every fibre of his heart to twine and intertwine themselves around her , only to be one day broken and cast bleeding at his feet . 
But somehow , here at Grassy Spring , in the home of Arthur St. Claire , he felt oppressed with a dread lest this thing should be ; and to Edith , when she asked what made him so pale , he said , `` It 's close in here , I think . 
Let 's hurry out into the open air . '' 
She led him to an iron chair beneath a forest maple , and leaving him there alone went back to close the windows she had opened . 
One of those in the drawing-room resisted all her efforts for a time , but came down at last with a bang , causing her to start , and hit her foot against a frame , which she had not before observed , but which she now saw was a portrait standing in the dark corner with its face against the wall . 
`` Truly there can be no harm in looking at this , '' she thought , and turning it to the light she stepped back to examine it . 
Edith was wonderfully in love with that picture , and many a theory she built as to the original . 
exclaimed Edith , who had listened in amazement to his story . 
asked Edith . 
`` Yes -- no -- I will go myself , '' said Edith , remembering Mr. Griswold , from Worcester , and the message she was to deliver . 
Mr. Harrington wo n't let you , '' said Victor , and Edith rejoined , `` I sha n't ask him . 
Victor was never happier than when obeying Edith , and in an inconceivably short space of time Bedouin stood at the back piazza , where his mistress mounted him and rode away . 
Having thus settled the matter to her mind , Edith rode on , unmindful of the rain , which had partially subsided , but still dripped from her black plumes and glanced off from her velvet habit . 
A slight nervous trepidation seized her , however , as she drew near to Grassy Spring , and noticed the look of surprise with which a stalwart African , standing by the gate , regarded her . 
Riding up to him she said , good-naturedly , `` How d'ye , uncle ? '' 
Immediately the ivories of the darkie became visible , and with a not ungraceful bow , he answered , `` Jest tolable , thankee ; '' while his eyes wandered up the road , as if in quest of something they evidently did not find , for bending forward he looked curiously behind Edith , saying by way of apology , `` I ` se huntin ' for yer little black boy ; whar is he ? '' 
and in her fright , lest some one of the little `` Guinea niggers '' about whom Victor had told her , might be seated behind her , Edith leaped with one bound from the saddle , nearly upsetting the young man hastening out to meet her . 
All this Edith understood afterward , but she was too much excited now to think of any thing except that she had probably made herself ridiculous in the eyes of Arthur St. Claire , who adroitly rescued her from a fall in the mud , by catching her about the waist and clasping one of her hands . 
`` Miss Hastings , I believe , '' he said , when he saw that she had regained her equilibrium , `` This is a pleasure I hardly expected in this storm , -- but come in . 
You are drenched with rain ; '' and still holding her hand , he led her into the library , where a cheerful fire was blazing . 
Drawing a chair before it he made her sit down , while he untied and removed her hat , brushing the drops of rain from her hair , and doing it in so quiet , familiar , and withal so womanly a manner that Edith began to feel quite at home with him , and to think she had not done so foolish a thing , after all , in coming there . 
When sure she was comfortable , he drew a chair opposite to her , and for the first time since they met , she had a chance to see what changes eight years had wrought in one she thought so handsome as a youth . 
He was larger , more fully developed than when she parted from him in Albany , and it seemed to her as if he were taller , too . 
He was certainly manlier in his appearance , and the incipient mustache at which her nose was once contemptuously elevated , was now a rich , brown beard , adding , as some would think , to the beauty of his face , the pride of his barber , and the envy of his less fortunate comrades . 
Amid his wavy hair a line of silver was now and then discernible , and Edith thought how much faster he had grown old than Richard Harrington . 
Besides that , Richard had Edith , while Arthur , alas , poor Arthur , he had worse than nothing ; and as he looked across the hearth to where Edith sat , he ceased to wonder that one who for eight years had basked in the sunshine of her presence , should be as young , as vigorous and happy as Richard had appeared to him . 
He professed to be a woman-hater , he who , in his early boyhood , had counted his conquests by scores ; and even if he were not , beautiful Edith Hastings could never be aught to him ; and he must not suffer himself for a single moment to think howbeautiful she was , still he could not help looking at her , and not a movement of her hand or a bend of her head escaped him . 
asked Edith , a suspicion of the truth flashing upon her . 
`` But I have a heap of curiosity , '' returned Edith , laughingly . 
Edith was about to ask him of the portrait in the drawing room , when he prevented her by making some playful allusion to the circumstances of their first acquaintance . 
`` I began to think you had forgotten me , '' said Edith , `` though I knew you could not well forget the theft unjustly charged to me . '' 
She hoped he would now speak of Nina , but he did not , and as she for the first time remembered Mr. Griswold , she said , after a moment 's pause , `` I came near forgetting my principal errand here . 
I could have sent your keys , but I would rather deliver Mr. Griswold 's message myself . '' 
She expected Arthur to start , but she was not prepared for him to spring from his chair as suddenly as he did . 
Tell me , Edith -- Miss Hastings -- I beg your pardon -- tell me his errand . '' 
He stood close to her now , and his eyes did not leave her face for an instant while she repeated the particulars of her interview with the stranger . 
`` Yes , all , '' she answered , pitying him , he looked so frightened , so disturbed . 
He wrung her hand and stepped into the hall just as one of the black women he had brought from Florida appeared . 
`` Aunt Phillis , '' he said , `` I wish to speak with you , '' and going with her to the extremity of the hall , they conversed together in low , earnest tones , as if talking of some great sorrow in which both were interested . 
Once Edith heard Aunt Phillis say , `` Blessed lamb , that I 've done toted so many times in these old arms . 
`` I have no doubt she will , '' returned Arthur , adding something in a whisper which Edith could not hear . 
A moment more and Arthur passed the door , equipped with overcoat and umbrella , and she heard his rapid steps upon the back piazza as he went towards the carriage house . 
Aunt Phillis now re-entered the library , curtesying low to Edith , who saw upon her old black face the trace of recent tears . 
Edith ventured to ask , and instantly the round bright eyes shot at her a glance of alarm , while the negress replied , `` Dunno , misses . 
Thus rebuked , Edith arose and began to tie on her hat preparatory to leaving . 
Edith followed her to the kitchen , in which she found several dusky forms crouched before the fire , and gazing about them with a wondering look . 
To Edith they were exceedingly polite , and taking a seat in their midst she soon learned from a loquacious old lady , who seemed to be superannuated , that `` they were all one family , she being the grandmother , Ike and Phillis the father and mother , and ` tothers the children . 
Were all Ber - nards , '' she said , `` case that was ole marster 's name , but now I dunno who we does ` long to . 
`` You are a widow , I presume , '' said Edith , her black eyes brimming with fun . 
Aunt Judy paused , and looked into the fire as if seeing there images of the absent Abel , while Edith regarded her intently , pressing her hands twice upon her forehead , as if trying to retain a confused , blurred idea which flitted across her mind . 
`` Judy , '' she said , at last , `` it seems to me I must have seen yousomewhere before , though where , I dont know . '' 
`` No , '' returned Edith ; `` I was born in New York City , I believe . '' 
Phillis , who had been rummaging the closets and cupboards , now came forward , and scrutinizing Edith 's features , said , `` She favors Master Ber-nard 's last wife , only she 's taller and plumper . '' 
` Twa n't no more like the young lady than 't was like Uncle Abe , '' and with her mind thus brought back to Abel , she commenced an eulogy upon him , to which Edith did not care to listen , and she gladly followed Phillis into the pantry , explaining to her the use of such conveniences as she did not fully understand . 
`` Two o'clock ! '' 
she exclaimed , as she heard the silver bell from the library clock . 
`` Richard 'll think I 'm lost , '' and bidding her new acquaintances good bye , she hurried to the gate , having first given orders for Bedouin to be brought from the stable . 
But Edith assured him she was not afraid , and galloped swiftly down the road , while the negro John looked admiringly after , declaring to his father , who joined him , that `` she rode mighty well for a Yankee girl . '' 
Arthur St. Claire had returned from Worcester , but it was several days ere he presented himself at Collingwood ; and Edith was beginning to think he had forgotten her and the promised drawing lessons , when he one evening was ushered by Victor into the parlor , where she was singing to Richard his favorite songs . 
He was paler than when she saw him before , and she fancied that he seemed weary and worn , as if sleep and himself had been for a long time strangers . 
`` Did you leave your friend better ? '' 
One could not be very unhappy in Edith 's presence . 
She possessed so much life , vivacity and vigor , that her companions were sure to become more or less imbued with her cheerful spirit ; and as the evening advanced , Arthur became much like the Arthur of Brier Hill memory , and even laughed aloud on several occasions . 
`` I wish I was sure of finding at Grassy Spring somebody just like you , '' he said to Edith when at last he arose to go . 
slily interrupted Edith , who was standing near him as he leaned against the marble mantel . 
anything but that , '' and the hand he placed in Edith 's shook nervously , but soon grew still between her soft , warm palms . 
There was something life-giving in Edith 's touch , as well as soul-giving in her presence , and standing there with his cold , nervous hand in hers , the young man felt himself grow strong again , and full of courage to hope for a happier future than the past had been . 
He knew shecould not share the future with him -- but he would have as much of her as possible , and just as she was wondering if he would remember the lessons , he spoke of them and asked when she could come . 
`` Just when Mr. Harrington thinks best , '' she replied , and thus appealed to , Richard , guided by Edith 's voice , came forward and joined them . 
Edith 's eyes sought those of Arthur , reading there a reflection of her own secret thoughts , to wit , that threewould be one too many , but they could not tell him so and Arthur responded at once , `` Certainly , I shall expect you both , say to-morrow at ten o'clock ; I am most at leisure then . '' 
The next morning , at the appointed time , Richard and Edith appeared at Grassy Spring , where they found Arthur waiting for them , his portfolio upon the table , and his pencils lying near , ready to be used . 
`` I am afraid you 'll find it tiresome , Mr. Harrington , '' he said , as he assigned his visitor a chair , and then went back to Edith . 
`` I shall do very well , '' answered Richard , and so he did for that lesson , and the next , and the next , but at last , in spite of his assertion to the contrary , he found it dull business going to Grassy Spring twice each week , and sitting alone with nothing to occupy his mind , except , indeed , to wonder how nearArthur was to Edith , and if he bent over her as he remembered seeing drawing teachers do at school . 
Richard was getting very tired of it -- very weary of listening to Arthur 's directions , and to Edith 's merry laughs at her awkward blunders , and he was not sorry when one lesson-day , the fifth since they began , Grace Atherton 's voice was heard in the hall without , asking for admission . 
He had long since forgiven Grace for jilting him , and they were the best of friends ; so when she suggested their going into the adjoining room , where it was pleasanter and she could play to him if he liked , he readily assented , and while listening to her lively conversation and fine playing , he forgot the lapse of time , and was surprised when Edith came to him with the news that it was 12 o'clock . 
`` Grapes , '' screamed Edith , as she saw the rich purple clusters , which had been put up for winter use by poor , discarded Mrs. Johnson . 
`` It must be a very delightful state , '' said Edith , `` provided one were well matched and loved her husband , as I am sure I should do . '' 
`` I 'd kill him and the circumstances too , '' answered Edith . 
and the pang at Edith 's heart was discernible in her soft , black eyes , turned so quickly toward this candidate for celibacy . 
`` The girl does not live who can ever be to me a wife , were she graceful as a fawn and beautiful as -- '' he glanced at Edith as if he would call her name , but added instead -- `` as a Hebe , it could make no difference . 
He could now trust Edith alone at Grassy Spring -- he need not always be bored with coming there , and he was glad Arthur had so freely expressed his sentiments , as it relieved him of a great burden ; so , at parting , when Arthur said to him as usual , `` I 'll see you again on Friday , '' he replied , `` I do n't know , I 'm getting so worried with these abominably tedious lessons , that for once I 'll let her come alone . '' 
Matrimony and Edith Hastings must not be thought of together . 
That were worse than madness , and his better judgment warned him not to see too much of her -- told him it was better far to have that sightless man beside them when they met together in a relation so intimate as the teacher bears to his pupil . 
But Arthur would not listen ; Edith was the first who for years had really touched a human chord in his palsied heart , and the vibration would not cease without a fiercer struggle than he cared to make . 
Edith would , of course , be Richard 's wife ; he had foreseen that from the very first -- had predicted it long ago , but ere the sacrifice was made , he was surely pardonable if , for a little while , he gave himself to the bewildering intoxication of basking in the sunshine of her eyes , of bending so near to her that he could feel her fragrant breath , and the warm glow of her cheek , of holding those little hands a moment in his own after he had ceased to teach the fingers how to guide the pencil . 
All this passed in rapid review before his mind while his lips uttered the words which had so delighted Richard , and when he saw the shadow on Edith 's face , his poor , aching heart throbbed with a joy as wild and intense as it was hopeless and insane . 
This was Arthur St. Claire with Edith present , but with Edith gone , he was quite another man . 
Eagerly he watched her till she disappeared from view , then returning to the library he sat down where she had sat -- laid his head upon the table where her hands had lain , and cursed himself for daring to dream of love in connection with Edith Hastings . 
It would be happiness for a time , he knew , to hang upon her smile , to watch the lights and shadows of her speaking face , to look into her eyes -- those clear , truthful eyes which had in them no guile . 
All this would be perfect bliss , were it not that the end must come at last -- the terrible end -- remorse bitterer than death for him , and for her -- the pure , unsullied , trusting Edith -- ruin , desolation , and madness , it might be . 
`` No , Edith , no . 
And he leaped from his chair , cursing himself again and again for having fallen so low as to dream of an act fraught with so much wrong to Edith , and so much treachery to one as fair , as beautiful as she , and far , far more to be pitied . 
He never had forgotten it for a single moment until he met with Edith Hastings , who possessed for him a powerful mesmeric charm , causing him in her presence to forget everything but her . 
Arthur 's was an impulsive nature , and it seemed to him that he had known Edith all his life , that she was a part of his very being . 
But he must forget her now , she must not come there any more , he could not resist her if she did ; and seizing his pen he dashed off a few lines to the effect that , for certain reasons , the drawing lessons must henceforth be discontinued . 
Why need he cast her off entirely ? 
'T was Arthur 's weaker manhood which spoke , and he listened , for Edith Hastings was in the scale , a mighty , overwhelming weight . 
She might come just once more , he said , and his heart swelled within his throat as he thought of being alone with her , no jealous Richard hovering near , like a dark , brooding cloud , his blind eyes shielding her from harm even more than they could have done had they been imbued with sight . 
It was just beginning to be light when Edith opened her eyes , and lifting up her head , looked about the room to see if Lulu had been in to make her fire . 
Heknew more than Edith thought he did , and waited like herself for Richard 's answer . 
Richard hadintended to remain at home , but it seemed that Edith expected him to go , by her saying we , and rather than disappoint her he began to think seriously of martyring himself again . 
Something like this he said , adding that he found it vastly tedious , but was willing to endure it for Edith 's sake . 
`` Pardonnez moi , Monsieur , '' said Victor , who for the sake of Edith , would sometimes stretch the truth , `` I saw Mr. Floyd yesterday , and he is coming here this morning to talk with you about the west wood lot you offered for sale . 
Edith gave a most grateful look to Victor , who had only substituted `` this morning '' for `` some time to-day , '' the latter being what Mr. Floyd had really said . 
`` I want so much to sell that lot , but if Edith -- '' `` Never mind me , Mr. Harrington , '' she cried ; `` I have not been on Bedouin 's back in so long a time that he is getting quite unmanageable , they say , and I shall be delighted to discipline him this morning ; the roads are quite fine for winter , are they not Victor ? '' 
Richard had many misgivings as to the propriety of letting Edith go without him , and he was several times on the point of changing his mind , but Edith did not give him any chance , and at just a quarter before ten she came down equipped in her riding habit , and asking if he had any message for Mr. St. Claire . 
`` None in particular , '' he answered , adding that she might come back through the village and bring the mail . 
Once on the back of Bedouin , who danced for a few moments like a playful kitten , Edith felt sure she was going alone , and abandoning herself to her delight she flew down the carriage road at a terrific speed , which startled even Victor , great as was his faith in his young lady 's skill . 
But Edith had the utmost confidence in Bedouin , while Bedouin had the utmost confidence in Edith , and by the time they were out upon the main road they had come to a most amicable understanding . 
`` I mean to gallop round to the office now , '' thought Edith ; and then I shall not be obliged to hurry away from Grassy Spring . '' 
Accordingly Bedouin was turned toward the village , and in an inconceivably short space of time she stood before the door of the post-office . 
`` Give me Mr. Harrington 's mail , please , '' Edith said to the clerk who came out to meet her ; `` and -- and Mr. St. Claire 's too , I 'm going up there , and can take it as well as not . '' 
It was post-marked at Worcester , and Edith thought of Mr. Griswold , as she thrust it into her pocket , and started for Grassy Spring , where Arthur was anxiously awaiting her . 
Hastening out to meet her , he held her hand in his , while he led her up the walk , telling her by his manner , if by nothing else , how glad he was to see her . 
`` So do I , '' said Edith , impulsively , repenting her words the moment she met the peculiar glance of Arthur 's eyes . 
asked Edith , as earnestly as if she knew the contents of that letter would save her from much future pain . 
`` Read it , '' she persisted , declaring , with pretty willfulness that she would not touch a pencil until he complied with her request . 
Your prayer shallsave me , and henceforth Edith shall be to me just what your darling Miggie would have been were she living . 
God help me to do right , '' he murmured , as he thought of Edith Hastings , and remembered how weak he was . 
asked Judy , and Edith replied , `` I told you once , in New York , but I have such queer fancies , as if I had lived before I came into this world . '' 
and Edith started quickly . 
asked Phillis , suddenly appearing and casting a warning glance at her mother , who replied , `` ` Bout marster 's last wife , the one you say she done favors . '' 
Then , in an aside to Edith , she added , `` I kin pull de wool over her eyes . 
whispered Edith , as Phillis bustled into the pantry , hurrying back ere Judy could more than shake her head significantly . 
`` Dear Aunt Phillis , wo n't you please tell Ike to bring up Bedouin , '' Edith said coaxingly , hoping by this ruse to get rid of the old negress ; but Phillis was too cunning , and throwing up the window sash , she called to Ike , delivering the message . 
Edith , however , managed slily to whisper , `` In Worcester , is n't she ? '' 
Edith 's curiosity concerning the mysterious Nina was thoroughly roused , and determining to ferret out the whole affair by dint of quizzing Judith whenever an opportunity should occur , she took her leave . 
`` Mother , '' said Phillis , the moment Edith was out of hearing , `` hav n't you no sense , or what possessed you to talk of Miss Nina to her ? 
That ar Miss p593-122 Edith is a nice trim gal . 
I wish to goodness Marster Arthur 'd done set to her . 
I 'd like her for a mistress mighty well . 
I really b ` lieve he has a hankerin ' notion arter her , too , an ' it 's nater that he should have . 
Dilsey 's an onery nigger , any how , '' and with her mind upon Uncle Abel , and her possible rival Dilsey , old Judy forgot Edith Hastings , who , without bidding Arthur good morning , had gallopped home to Collingwood , where she found poor , deluded Richard , waiting and wondering at the non-appearance of Mr. Floyd , who was to buy his western wood lot . 
For several weeks longer Edith continued taking lessons of Arthur , going sometimes with Richard , but oftener alone , and feeling always that a change had gradually come over her teacher . 
He was as kind to her as ever , took quite as much pains with her , and she was sensible of a greater degree of improvement than had marked the days when she trembled every time he touched her hands . 
He did not bend over her now as he used to do ; did not lay his arm across the back of her chair , letting it sometimes fall by accident upon her shoulders ; did not look into her eyes with a glance which made her blush and turn away ; in short , he did not look at her at all , if he could help it , and in this very self-denial lay his strength . 
He was waging a mighty battle with himself , and inch by inch he was gaining the victory , for victory it would be when he brought himself to think of Edith Hastings without a pang -- to listen to her voice and look into her face without a feeling that she must be his . 
He could not do this yet , but he kept himself from telling her of his love by assuming a reserved , studied manner , which led her at last to think he might be angry , and one day , toward the first of March , when he had been more than usually silent , she asked him abruptly how she had offended , her soft eyes filling with tears as she expressed her sorrow if by any thoughtless act she had caused him pain . 
`` You could not offend me , Edith , '' he said ; `` that would be impossible , and if I am sometimes cold and abstracted , it is because I have just cause for being so . 
I am very unhappy , Edith , and your visits here to me are like oases to the weary traveller . 
It was early in life , too , before I ever saw you , Edith . '' 
`` Why , Mr. St. Claire , '' she exclaimed , `` you were nothing but a boy when you came to Brier Hill . '' 
I am going away to-morrow , and you need not come again until I send for you ; but whatever occurs , do n't think I am offended . '' 
She could not think so when she met the olden look she had missed so long , and wondering where he could be going , she arose to take her leave . 
He went with her to the door , and wrung her hand nervously , bidding her in heart a final farewell , for when they met again a great gulf would be between them , -- a gulf he had helped to dig , and which he could not pass . 
Edith had intended to ask old Judy where Arthur was going , without , however , having much hope of success : for , since the conversasation concerning Nina , Judy had been wholly noncommittal , plainly showing that she had been trained for the occasion , but changed her mind , and rode leisurely away , going round by Brier Hill to call upon Grace whom she had not seen for some little time . 
Grace , as usual , was full of complaints against Arthur for being so misanthropical , so cross-grained and so queer , shutting himself up like a hermit and refusing to see any one but herself and Edith . 
`` What is he going to Worcester for ? '' 
But Edith did not know , unless it was to be married , and laughing at her own joke , she bade Grace good-bye , having learned by accident what she so much desired to know . 
The next morning she arose quite early , and looking in the direction of Grassy Spring , which , when the leaves were fallen , was plainly discernible , she saw Arthur 's carriage driving from his gate . 
There was no train due at that hour , and she stood wondering until the carriage , which , for a moment , had been hidden from her view , appeared a second time in sight , and as it passed the house she saw Aunt Phillis 's dusky face peering from the window . 
She did not see Arthur , but she was sure he was inside ; and when the horses were turned into the road , which , before the day of cars , was the great thoroughfare between Shannondale and Worcester , she knew he had started for the latter place in his carriage . 
`` What can it be for ? '' 
But puzzle her brain as she might , she could not fathom the mystery , and she waited for what would next occur . 
In the course of the day Victor , who , without being really meddlesome , managed to keep himself posted with regard to the affairs at Grassy Spring , told her that Mr. St. Claire , preferring his carriage to the cars , had gone in it to Worcester , and taken Phillis with him ; that he would be absent some days ; and that Sophy , Phillis 's daughter , when questioned as to his business , had answered evasively , `` Gone to fotch his wife home for what I know . '' 
`` Maybe it is so , '' said Victor , looking Edith steadily in the face . 
Edith knew that , but she would not hearken for a moment to Victor 's suggestion . 
It made her too unhappy , and for three days she had a fair opportunity of ascertaining the nature of her feelings toward Arthur St. Claire , for nothing is more conducive to the rapid development of love , than a spice of jealousy lest another has won the heart we so much covet . 
The next day , the fourth after Arthur 's departure , she asked Victor to ride with her on horseback , saying the fresh March wind would do her good . 
Half way up the hill , moving very slowly , as if the horses were jaded and tired , was a traveling carriage , which both Edith and Victor recognized at once as belonging to Arthur St. Claire . 
`` Let 's overtake them , '' said Edith , and chirruping to Bedouin , she was soon so near to the carriage that her quick ear caught the sound of a low , sweet voice singing a German air , with which she herself had always been familiar , though when she first learned it she could not tell . 
One little ringless , blue-veined hand was plainly discernible in the bright moonlight , and Edith thought how small and white and delicate it was . 
`` Let 's go on , '' she whispered , and they dashed past the carriage just as Arthur leaned forward to see who they were . 
`` That was a young lady , '' said Victor coming up with Edith , who was riding at a headlong speed . 
`` Yes , I knew it , '' and Edith again touched Bedouin with her whip as if the fast riding suited well her tumultuous emotions . 
said Victor , interrogatively , and Edith replied , `` Very likely , Victor , '' and she stopped Bedouin short . 
Victor could see no reason for this request , but it was sufficient for him that Edith had made it , and he promised readily all that she desired . 
They were at home by this time , and complaining of a headache Edith excused herself earlier than usual and stole up to her chamber where she could be alone to wonder whowas the visitor at Grassy Spring . 
At last Edith was surprised at receiving a note from Arthur , saying he was ready to resume their lessons at any time . 
Highly delighted with the plan Edith answered immediately that she would come on the morrow , which was Friday . 
It was just such a morning , in short , as is most grateful to the young , and Edith felt its inspiriting influence as she rode along the rather muddy road . 
Another there was , too , who felt it ; and as Edith sauntered slowly up the path , entering this time upon the rear piazza instead of the front , she heard again the soft , low voice which had sounded so mournful and sweet when heard in the still moonlight . 
Looking up she saw that a window of the Den was open , and through the lattice work a little hand was thrust , as if beckoning her to come . 
Stepping back she tried to obtain a view of the person , but failed to do so , though the hand continued beckoning , and from the height there floated down to her the single word , `` Miggie . '' 
That was all ; but it brought her hand to her head as if she had received a sudden blow . 
`` Miggie -- Miggie , '' she repeated . 
A confused murmur as if of expostulation and remonstrance was now heard -- the childish hand disappeared and scarcely knowing what she was about , Edith stepped into the hall and advanced into the library , where she sat down to wait for Arthur . 
Matters were , in Edith 's estimation , assuming a serious aspect , and remembering how pleadingly the name `` Miggie '' had been uttered , she half-resolved to demand of Arthur the immediate release of the helpless creature thus held in durance vile . 
But he looked so unhappy , so hopelessly wretched that her sympathy was soon enlisted for him rather than his fair captive . 
Still she would try him a little and when they were fairly at work she said to him jestingly , `` I heard it hinted that you would bring home a wife , but I do not see her . 
Arthur uttered no sound save a stifled moan , and when Edith dared to steal a look at him she saw that his brown hair was moist with perspiration , which stood also in drops about his lips . 
`` Mr. St. Claire , '' she said , throwing down her pencil and leaning back in her chair , `` I can endure this no longer . 
Who have you up stairs and why this mystery concerning her ? '' 
She laid her hand upon his arm , and looked imploringly into the face , which turned away from her , as if afraid to meet her truthful glance . 
Once he thought to tell her all , but when he remembered how beautiful she was , how much he loved her , and how dear her society was to him , he refrained , for he vainly fancied that a confession would drive her from him forever . 
He did not know Edith Hastings ; he had not yet fathomed the depths of her womanly nature , and he could not guess how tenderly , even while her own heart was breaking , she would have soothed his grief and been like an angel of mercy to the innocent cause of all his woe . 
For a moment Edith sat motionless . 
She had not expected this from Arthur , and it roused within her a feeling of resentment . 
`` And so you only sent for me to give me my dismissal , '' she said , in a cold , icy tone . 
He does not like to be in debt . '' 
She spoke proudly , haughtily , and her eyes , usually so soft in their expression , had in them a black look of anger , which pierced Arthur 's very soul . 
He could not part with her thus , and grasping the hand reached out to take its gauntlet , he held it fast , while he said , `` What are we doing , Edith ? 
Edith never liked to hear her relations to Richard referred to in this manner , and she answered quickly , `` You are mistaken , Mr. St. Claire , in thinking I bear any burden either here or elsewhere . 
`` Would you marry him , Edith ? '' 
and Arthur scanned her closely . 
Edith trembled from head to foot , as she answered , `` Not if he demanded it as a right , though he might well do that , for I owe him everything . 
But if he loved me , and I loved him . '' 
She paused , and in the silence which ensued the tumultuous beating of her heart was plainly audible . 
No one before had suggested to her the possibility of her being Richard 's wife , and the idea was terrible to her . 
`` But if he does , Edith , you will not tell him no.Promise me that . 
`` I am , '' he said , though his white lips gave the lie to the words he uttered , and his heart smote him cruelly for his selfishness in wishing to save himself by sacrificing Edith ; and it would be a sacrifice , he knew -- a fearful sacrifice , the giving her to a blind man , old enough to be her sire , noble , generous and good , though he were . 
It was the same German air Edith had heard in the yard , and she listened breathlessly while it came nearer to the door . 
Suddenly the singer seemed to change her mind , for the music began slowly to recede and was soon lost to hearing within the four walls of the Den . 
Not a word was spoken by either Arthur or Edith , until the latter said , `` It is time I was at home , '' and she arose to go . 
He offered no remonstrance , but accompanying her to the gate , placed her in the saddle , and then stood watching her as she galloped away . 
Three or four times Edith went to Grassy Spring , seeing nothing of the mysterious occupant of the Den , hearing nothing of her , and she began to think she might have returned to Worcester . 
Many times she was on the point of questioning Arthur , but from what had passed , she knew how disagreeable the subject was to him , and she generously forbore . 
`` I think he might tell me , any way , '' she said to herself , half poutingly , when , one morning near the latter part of April , she rode slowly toward Grassy Spring . 
Their quarrel , if quarrel it could be called , had been made up , or , rather , tacitly forgotten , and Arthur more than once had cursed himself for having , in a moment of excitement , asked her to marry Richard Harrington . 
Grace indeed , might have enlightened both himself and Edith with regard to the village gossip , but looking upon the latter as her rival , and desiring greatly that she should marry Arthur , she forebore from communicating to either of them anything which would be likely to retard an affair she fancied was progressing famously . 
Thus without a counsellor or friend was Edith left to follow the bent of her inclinations ; and on this April morning , as she rode along , mentally chiding Arthur for not entrusting his secret to her , she wondered how she had ever managed to be happy without him , and if the time would ever come when her visits to Grassy Spring would cease . 
Leaving Bedouin at the rear gate she walked slowly to the house , glancing often in the direction of the Den , the windows of which were open this morning , and as she came near she saw a pair of soft blue eyes peering at her through the lattice , then a little hand was thrust outside , beckoning to her as it did once before . 
Instantly Edith stopped , and at last a tiny note came fluttering to her feet . 
Grasping it eagerly she read , in a pretty , girlish hand : `` Darling Miggie : -- Nina has been sosick this great long while , and her head is so full of pain . 
`` Poor little Nina , '' and Edith 's tears fell fast upon the bit of paper . 
There was a step upon the grass , and thrusting the note into her pocket , Edith turned to meet Arthur , who seemed this morning unusually cheerful and greeted her with something like his olden tenderness . 
But Edith was too intent upon Nina to think much of him , and after the lesson commenced she appeared so abstracted that it was Arthur 's turn to ask if she were offended . 
She had made herself believe she was , for notwithstanding Nina 's assertion that `` Arthur was good , '' she thought it a sin and a shame for him to keep any thing but a raving lunatic hidden away up stairs ; and after a moment 's hesitation she answered , `` Yes , I am offended , and I do n't mean to come here any more , unless -- '' `` Edith , '' and the tone of Arthur 's voice was fraught with pain so exquisite that Edith paused and looked into his face , where various emotions were plainly visible . 
Love , fear , remorse , apprehension , all were blended together in the look he fixed upon her . 
Edith was about to speak , when , on the stairs without , -- the stairs leading from the den -- there was the patter of little feet , and a gentle , timid knock was heard upon the door . 
`` Mr. St. Claire , '' and Edith sprang from her chair , `` I can unlock that door , and I will . '' 
Like a block of marble Arthur stood while Edith opened the oak-paneled door . 
Edith knew her in a moment from the resemblance to the daguerreotype seen more than eight years before , and as she now scanned her features it seemed to her they had scarcely changed at all . 
Arthur had said of her then that she was not quite sixteen , consequently she was now nearly twenty-five , but she did not look as old as Edith , so slight was her form , so delicate her limbs , and so childlike and simple the expression of her face . 
She was very , very fair , and Edith felt that never before had she looked upon a face so exquisitely beautiful . 
Her hair was of a reddish yellow hue , and rippled in short silken rings all over her head , curling softly in her neck , but was not nearly as long as it had been in the picture . 
Edith thought of this and sighed , while her heart yearned toward the helpless young creature , who stood regarding her with a scrutinizing glance , as one studies a beautiful picture . 
In the rich , dark beauty of Edith 's face there was a wonderful fascination , which riveted the crazy girl to the spot where she had stopped when first she crossed the thresh old , and when at last , sinking upon the sofa , Edith extended her arms , as a mother to her child , poor little Nina went forward , and with a low , gasping sob , fell upon her bosom , weeping passionately , her whole frame trembling and her sobs so violent that Edith became alarmed , and tried by kisses and soft endearing words to soothe her grief and check the tears raining in torrents from her eyes . 
It takes the heavy pain away , '' and Nina made a gesture that Edith must not stop her , while Arthur , roused from his apathy , also said , `` She has not wept before in years . 
At the sound of hisvoice Nina lifted up her head , and turned toward the corner whence it came , but Edith saw that in the glance there was neither reproach nor fear , nothing save trusting confidence , and her heart insensibly softened toward him . 
`` Poor Arthur , '' Nina murmured , and laying her head again on Edith 's bosom , she said , `` Every body is sad where I am , but I ca n't help it . 
Poor Nina , '' and the voice which uttered these words was so sadly touching that Edith 's tears mingled with those of the young creature she hugged the closer to her , whispering , `` I know it , darling , and I pity you so much . 
asked Edith , who had listened to the words as to something not wholly new to her . 
Edith , too , remembered Phillis ' saying that she looked like `` Master Bernard 's '' wife , and Arthur 's explanations seemed highly probable . 
`` Dear , darling Nina , '' she said , kissing the pure white forehead , `` I willbe a sister to you . '' 
Edith had not like Grace , looked into the large closet adjoining the Den , and she did not know what Nina meant , but at a venture she replied , `` No , darling . 
Then , when Arthur came -- Dr. Griswold sent for him , you see -- I buried my fingers in hishair , so , '' and she was about to clutch her own golden locks when Edith shudderingly caught her hands and held them tightly lest they should harm the tresses she thought so beautiful . 
A suppressed moan was Arthur 's answer , and Nina , when she heard it , slid from Edith 's arms and crossing over to where he sat , climbed into his lap with all the freedom of a little child , and winding her arms about his neck , said to him softly , `` Do n't be so sorry , Arthur , Nina 'll be good . 
`` Oh , how Edith 's heart ached for the strange couple opposite her -- the strong man and the crazy young girl who clung to him as confidingly , as if his bosom were her rightful resting place . 
She pitied them both , but her sympathies were enlisted for Arthur , and coming to his side she laid her hand upon the damp brown locks , which Nina once had torn in her insane fury , and in a voice which spoke volumes of sympathy , whispered , `` I am sorry for you . '' 
This was too much for Arthur , and he sobbed aloud , while Edith , forgetting all properties in her grief for him , bowed her face upon his head , and he could feel her hot tears dropping on his hair . 
Edith was the first to be comforted , for she did not , like Arthur , know what coming right involved . 
`` Marster Arthur , '' she began , glancing furtively at Edith , `` how came Miss Nina here ? 
Come , honey , '' and she reached out her hand to Nina , who , jumping again upon Arthur 's knee , clung to him closely , exclaiming , `` No , no , old Phillis ; Nina 's good -- Nina 'll stay with Miggie ! '' 
and as if fancying that Edith would be a surer protector than Arthur , she slid from his lap and running to the sofa where Edith sat , half hid herself behind her , whispering , `` Send her off -- send her off . 
Edith was fearful that Nina 's presence might interfere with the story she meant to hear , but she could not find it in her heart to send away the little girl clinging so fondly to her , and to Phillis she said , `` She may stay this once , I am sure . 
and Edith glanced inquiringly at Arthur . 
Crossing the room Arthur sat down upon the sofa with Nina between himself and Edith , who was pleased to see that he wound his arm around the young girl as if she were dear to him , notwithstanding her disgrace . 
She only felt that she was where she wished to be , and knowing that he could say before her what he pleased without the least danger of her comprehending a word , Arthur , much to Edith 's surprise , began : `` You have seen Nina , Miss Hastings . 
`` But she , '' interrupted Edith , pointing to Nina , whose blue eyes were turned to Arthur . 
`` Poor child , '' said Edith , involuntarily caressing Nina , who smiled up in her face , and leaning her head upon her shoulder , continued her play with the buttons . 
Meanwhile Arthur sat lost in thought , determining in his own mind how much he should tell Edith of Nina , and how much withhold . 
He could not tell her all , even though he knew that by keeping back a part , much of his past conduct would seem wholly inexplicable , but he could not help it , and when at last he saw that Edith was waiting for him , he pressed his hands a moment against p593-141 his heart to stop its violent beating , and drawing a long , long sigh , began the story . 
Edith blushed painfully , and averted her eyes , while Arthur continued : `` During Mr. Bernard 's stay in Richmond he was attacked with that loathsome disease the small pox , and deserted by all his friends , was in a most deplorable condition , when I , who had had the varioloid , begged and obtained permission to nurse him , which I did as well as I was able , staying by him until the danger was over . 
Nina knew that he was praising her -- that Edith sanctioned the praise , and with the same feeling the little child experiences when told that it is good , she smiled upon Arthur , who , smoothing her round white cheek , went on : `` My sweet Florida rose , I called her , and many a romping frolic we had together during the winter months , and many a serious talk , too , we had of her second mother ; her own she did not remember , and of her sister Miggie , whose grave we often visited , strewing it with flowers and watering it with tears , for Nina 's affection for her lost sister was so touching that I often wept with her over Miggie 's grave . '' 
and she nestled closer to Edith , who was growing strangely interested in that old house , shaded with magnolias , and in the grave of that little child . 
Arthur paused , and Edith fancied he was living over the past when Nina was not as she was now , but alas , he was thinking what to tell her next . 
That was nine years ago next month , and during the vacation following I came to Shannondale and saw you , Edith , while you saw Nina 's picture . '' 
Edith , '' and Arthur 's voice trembled , `` I was too much a boy to know the nature of my feelings toward Nina when we were engaged , and as the time wore on my love began to wane . '' 
Edith 's heart beat more naturally now than it had before since the narrative commenced , but she could not forbear from saying to him , reproachfully , `` Oh , Arthur . '' 
At the mention of Mr. Hudson the toy dropped from Nina 's fingers and the blue eyes flashed up into Edith 's face with a more rational expression than she had heretofore observed in them . 
`` What is it , darling ? '' 
she asked , as she saw there was something Nina would say . 
And she smiled upon Edith , who involuntarily groaned as she thought how dreadful it must have been for Mr. Hudson to gaze through iron bars upon the wreck of his early love . 
`` Oh , do , '' exclaimed Edith , feeling somehow that anything concerning the mother of Miggie Bernard would interest her . 
Edith cried . 
`` Oh , Mr. St. Claire , '' and Edith 's eyes filled with tears . 
You can guess it , Edith . 
asked Edith . 
said Edith , while Arthur replied , `` She would not go . 
You refused to enter , and my respect for you from that moment was unbounded . '' 
`` And that is why you chose me instead of Grace to take charge of your keys , '' interrupted Edith , beginning to comprehend what had heretofore been strange to her . 
It was no disgrace to you that you have kept the father 's trust , and cared for his poor child , '' and she glanced lovingly at the pretty face nestled against her arm , for Nina had fallen asleep . 
Had I never loved her -- '' he paused , and leaned his head upon his hands , while Edith , bending upon him a most searching look , startled him with the words , `` Mr. St. Claire , you have not told me all . 
`` Yes , Edith , there is something behind , but I ca n't tell youwhat it is , you of all others . '' 
He was pacing the floor hurriedly now , but stopped suddenly , and standing before Edith , said : `` Edith Hastings , you are somewhat to blame in this matter . 
See here , '' and lifting his brown locks , he showed her many a line of silver . 
`` Oh , Mr. St. Claire , '' interrupted Edith , `` You surely do love her . 
Edith , never conceal a single act , if you wish to be happy . 
Edith did not ask who this other was , neither did she dream that Richard Harrington was in any way connected with the mystery . 
It is needless to keep it longer , but , Edith , you 'll come again , wo n't you ? 
It would be impossible to describe Edith 's feelings as she rode toward home . 
She knew Arthur had not told her the whole , and that the part omitted was the most important of all . 
What could it be ? 
She thought of a thousand different things , but dismissed them one after another from her mind as too preposterous to be cherished for a moment . 
The terrible reality never once occurred to her , else her heart had not beaten as lightly as it did , in spite of the strange story she had heard . 
She was glad that she had met with Nina -- glad that every obstacle to their future intercourse was removed -- and while she censured Arthur much she pitied him the more and scolded herself heartily for feeling so comfortable and satisfied because he had ceased to love the unfortunate Nina . 
Turning back , Edith saw her hurrying across the fields , and knew it would not be long ere all Shannondale were talking of Arthur 's ward . 
Arrived at home she found the dinner waiting for her , and when asked by Richard what had kept her she replied by repeating to him in substance what she had already told Mrs. Eliakim Rogers . 
This feeling of Victor was in a great measure shared by the villagers , and , indeed , after a day or two of talking and wondering , the general opinion seemed to be that Arthur had magnified the evil and been altogether too much afraid of Madam Rumor , who was inclined to be rather lenient toward him , particularly as Edith Hastings took pains to tell how kind he was to Nina , who gave him oftentimes so much trouble . 
It was a most joyful meeting between the two young girls , Nina clinging to Edith as if fearful of losing her again , if by chance she should release her hold . 
Arthur did not tell Edith how much he had missed her , but Nina did , and when she saw the color deepen on Edith 's cheeks she added , `` You love him , do n't you , Miggie ? '' 
`` I love every body , I hope , '' returned the blushing Edith , as she led her guests into the room where Richard was sitting . 
`` Speak to her , Edith , '' whispered Arthur , but ere Edith could comply with his request , Nina 's lips parted and she said , `` You did do it , did n't you ? '' 
It 's Nina , Mr. Harrington ; pretty Nina Bernard ; and Edith came to the rescue . 
`` She has a sweet , familiar voice , '' said Richard . 
He evidently thought her a child , for in her statement Edith had not mentioned her age , and Richard had somehow received the impression that she was very young . 
`` A little morsel , '' he called her , and as neither Arthur nor Edith corrected the mistake , he was suffered to think of Nina Bernard as one , who , were she rational , would be a mere school-girl yet . 
Edith was too intent upon Nina 's answer to notice Arthur , and she failed to see the spasm of pain and fear which passed over his face , leaving it paler than its wont . 
Bending over Nina he waited like Edith while she scanned Richard curiously , and then replied , `` Never , unless you are the one that did it -- are you ? '' 
asked Richard , and while Nina hesitated , Arthur replied , `` She has a fancy that somebody made her crazy . '' 
`` It was Charlie Hudson , perhaps , '' suggested Edith , and Arthur mentally blessed her for a remark which turned the channel of Nina 's thoughts , and set her to telling Richard how Charlie cried when he saw her through the iron bars , wearing that queer-looking gown . 
Edith now sought to divert her by asking if she were fond of music , and would like to hear her play . 
`` Nina 'll play , '' returned the little maiden , and going to the piano she dashed off a wild , impassioned , mixed-up impromptu , resembling now the soft notes of the lute or the plaintive sob of the winter wind , and then swelling into a full , rich , harmonious melody , which made the blood chill in Edith 's veins , and caused both Richard and Arthur to hold their breath . 
The music ceased , and rising from the stool Nina expressed a desire to go home , insisting that Edith should go with her and stay all night . 
`` I want to sleep with my arms around your neck just like you used to do , '' she said ; and when Arthur , too , joined in the request , Edith answered that she would if Richard were willing . 
`` Perfectly so , '' returned Arthur , adding that the house was large enough , and Edith could act her own pleasure with regard to sleeping apartments . 
`` Then it 's settled that I may go , '' chimed in Edith , quite as much delighted at the prospect of a long evening with Arthur , as with the idea of seeing more of Nina . 
Nina was delighted to have Edith with her , and after their arrival at Grassy Spring , danced and skipped about the house like a gay butterfly , pausing every few moments to wind her arms around the neck of her guest , whom she kissed repeatedly , calling her always Miggie , and telling her how much she loved her . 
`` Do n't you want to see youas you used to be ? '' 
and she turned toward Arthur , who answered , `` certainly , I will go myself , '' and the three soon stood at the door of the Den . 
It was Edith 's first visit there , and a feeling of awe came over her as she crossed the threshold of the mysterious room . 
Then a cry of joyful surprise burst from her lips as she saw how pleasant it was in there , and how tastefully the chamber was fitted up . 
Not another apartment in the house could compare with it , and Edith felt that she could be happy there all her life , were it not for the iron lattice , which gave it somewhat the appearance of a prison . 
`` This is she -- this is you , -- this is Miggie , '' and Nina jumped up and down , while Edith gazed again upon the sweet baby face she had once seen in the drawing-room . 
Edith did not answer him . 
Indeed , she scarcely knew what he was saying , for a nameless fascination chained her to the spot , a feeling as if she were beholding her other self , as if she had leaped backward many years , and was seated again upon the nursery floor like the child before her . 
Like gleams of lightning , confused memories of the past came rushing over her only to pass away , leaving her in deeper darkness . 
One thought , however , like a blinding flash caused her brain to reel , while she grasped Arthur 's arm , exclaiming , `` Are you sure the baby died -- sure she was buried with her mother ? '' 
`` Yes , perfectly sure , '' was Arthur 's reply , and with the sensation of disappointment , Edith turned at last from Miggie to the contemplation of the father ; the Mr. Bernard whom she was not greatly disposed to like . 
Still , Edith was far more interested in him than in the portrait of Nina 's mother , the light-haired , blue-eyed woman , so much like the daughter that the one could easily be recognized from its resemblance to the other . 
The pictures were by this time duly examined , and then Nina , still playing the part of hostess , showed to Edith every thing of the least interest until she came to the door , leading into the large square closet . 
`` Open it , please , '' she whispered to Arthur . 
Arthur unlocked the door , and Edith stepped with a shudder into the solitary cell which had witnessed more than one wild revel , and echoed to more than one delirious shriek . 
`` Is it necessary ? '' 
Edith inquired , and Nina rejoined . 
`` Miss Hastings certainly has a wonderful influence over you , '' returned Arthur , and as the evening wore away , Edith began to think so , too . 
It was late that night when they parted , he to his lonely room where for hours he paced the floor with feverish disquiet , while Edith went from choice with Nina to the Den , determined to share her single bed , and smiling at her own foolishness when once a shadow of fear crept into her heart . 
How could she be afraid of the gentle creature , who , in her snowy night dress , with her golden hair falling about her face and neck , looked like some beautiful angel flitting about the room , pretending to arrange this and that , casting half bashful glances at Edith , who was longer in disrobing and at last , as if summoning all her courage for the act , stepping behind the thin lace window curtains , which she drew around her , saying softly , `` do n't look at me , Miggie , will you , 'cause I 'm going to pray . '' 
Instantly the brush which Edith held was stayed amid her raven hair , and the hot tears rained over her face as she listened to that prayer , that God would keep Nina from tearingany more , and not let Arthur cry , but make it all come right some time with him and Miggie , too . 
Then followed that simple petition , `` now I lay me down to sleep , '' learned at the mother 's knee by so many thousand children whose graves like hillocks in the churchyard lie , and when she arose and came from behind the gauzy screen where she fancied she had been hidden from view , Edith was not wrong in thinking that something like the glory of Heaven shone upon her pure white brow . 
All dread of her was gone , and when Sophy came in , offering to sleep upon the floor as was her usual custom , she promptly declined , for she would rather be alone with Nina . 
Edith had never been intimate with any girl of her own age , and to her it was a happiness entirely new , the nestling down in the narrow bed with a loved companion whose arms wound themselves caressingly around her neck , and whose lips touched hers many times , whispering , `` Bless you , Miggie , bless you , precious sister , you ca n't begin to guess how much I love you . 
It became rather tiresome after a time being kept awake , and fearing lest she wouldtalk till morning , Edith said to her . 
There was something in Edith 's voice which prompted the crazy girl to obey , and with one more assurance of love she turned to her pillow , and Edith knew by her soft , regular breathing , that her troubles were forgotten . 
`` I hardly think you 'll care to repeat the experiment again , '' Arthur said to Edith next morning , when he met her at the table , and saw that she looked rather weary . 
Edith denied Nina 's having troubled her much . 
Still she felt that she preferred her own cozy bed-chamber to Nina 's larger , handsomer room , and would not promise to spend another night at Grassy Spring , although she expressed her willingness to resume her drawing lessons , and suggested that Nina , too , should become a pupil . 
Arthur would much rather have had Edith all to himself , for he knew that Nina 's presence would be a restraint upon him , but it was right , and he consented as the only means of having Edith back again in her old place , fancying that when he had her there it would be the same as before . 
But he was mistaken , for when the lessons were resumed , he found there was something between them , -- something which absorbed Edith 's mind , and was to him a constant warning and rebuke . 
Did he bend so near Edith at her task , that his brown locks touched her blacker braids , a shower of golden curls was sure to mingle with the twain , as Nina also bent her down to see what he was looking at . 
Did the hand which sometimes guided Edith 's pencil ever retain the fingers longer than necessary , a pair of deep blue eyes looked into his , not reproachfully , for Nina could not fathom the meaning of what she saw , but with an expression of childlike trust and confidence far more potent than frowns and jealous tears would have been . 
Nina was in Arthur 's way , but not in Edith 's , and half the pleasure she experienced now in going to Grassy Spring , was derived from the fact that she thus saw more of Nina than she would otherwise have done . 
It was a rare and beautiful sight , the perfect love existing between these two young girls , Edith seeming the elder , inasmuch as she was the taller and more self-reliant of the two . 
As a mother watches over and loves her maimed infant , so did Edith guard and cherish Nina , possessing over her so much power that a single look from her black eyes was sufficient to quiet at once the little lady , who , under the daily influence of her society visibly improved both in health and spirits . 
He saw Edith Hastings , -- scanned with his clear , far-reaching eye every action of Arthur St. Claire , and when at last his visit was ended , and Arthur was walking with him to the depot , he said abruptly , `` I am sorry for you , St. Claire ; more sorry than I ever was before , but you know the path of duty and you must walk in it , letting your eyes stray to neither side , lest they fall upon forbidden fruit . '' 
`` Edith Hastings is very beautiful ! '' 
`` Does she come often to Grassy Spring ? '' 
`` Every day , '' and Arthur tried to look his friend fully in the face , but could not , and his brown eyes fell as he added hastily , `` she comes to see Nina ; they are greatly attached . '' 
Hope and pray , as I do , that Edith Hastings will be the blind man 's bride . '' 
`` Oh , Griswold , '' and Arthur groaned aloud , `` you can not wish to sacrifice her thus ! '' 
`` Then you think -- you dothink she loves me , '' and Arthur looked eagerly at his friend , who answered , `` I think nothing , save that she will marry Mr. Harrington . 
Your cousin told me there was a rumor to that effect . 
`` I would , but for the fear that Edith will be lost to me forever , '' Arthur answered faintly , and Dr. Griswold replied , `` Better so than lost herself . 
Why not be candid with her ; tell her everything ; go over the entire past , and if she truly loves you , she will wait , years and years if need be . 
Will you tell her ? '' 
Oh , Griswold , you do not understand what I suffer , for you never knew what it was to love as I love Edith Hastings . '' 
He knew , too , how impetuous and ardent was his disposition , how much one of his temperament must love Edith Hastings , and he longed to speak to him a word of comfort . 
Those were terrible days which followed the visit of Dr. Griswold , for to see Edith Hastings often was a danger he dared not incur , while to avoid her altogether was utterly impossible , and at last resolving upon a change of scene as his only hope , he one morning astonished Grace with the announcement that he was going South , and it might be many weeks ere he returned . 
He was resolved , and saying he should not probably see Edith ere his departure , he left his farewell with her . 
Once he thought of bidding her encourage Edith to marry the blind man , but he could not quite bring himself to this . 
Edith was dearer to him now than when she promised him that if Richard sought her hand she would not tell him no , and he felt that he would rather she should die than be thus sacrificed . 
Dr. Griswold had rent asunder the flimsy veil , showing him how hopeless was his love for Edith , and so , because he could not have her , he must go away . 
In much surprise , Edith , who came that afternoon , heard of Arthur 's departure . 
`` Why did he go without bidding me good bye ? '' 
`` I do n't know , but he left a kiss for you right on my lips , '' said Nina , putting up her rosebud mouth for Edith to take what was unquestionably her own . 
exclaimed Edith , a suspicion crossing her mind that Arthur had arranged for him to take charge of Nina during his absence . 
`` I am so glad , so glad , '' he said ; and when Edith looked inquiringly at him , he answered , `` I am glad because it is right that he should go . '' 
Edith did not in the least comprehend his meaning , and as he manifested no intention to explain , the conversation soon turned upon other topics than Arthur and his sudden journey . 
This it was which struck a panic to the hearts of the inhabitants when they knew the scourge was again in their midst , and save the inmates of the house , and Edith Hastings , none came to Dr. Griswold 's aid . 
At first Richard refused to let the latter put herself in the way of danger , but for once Edith asserted her right to do as she pleased , and declared that she wouldshare Nina 's labors . 
Gradually the long hidden love for Nina showed itself , and Edith , who alone could comprehend the meaning of what he said and did , saw how a strong , determined man can love , even when there is no hope . 
`` Little wounded dove , '' he called the golden-haired maiden , who bent so constantly over him , caressing his burning face with her cool , soft hands , passing her snowy fingers through his disordered hair , and suffering him to kiss her as he often did , but insisting always that Miggieshould be kissed also , and Edith , knowing that what was like healing to the sick man would be withheld unless she , too , submitted , would sometimes bow her graceful head and receive upon her brow the token of affection . 
`` Nina , '' said Edith , `` Dr. Griswold does not love me as he does you , and you must not worry him so . 
and lifting the hair she pointed to the drops of perspiration standing upon his forehead . 
`` Do n't go Edith , '' he said , as he saw her stealing from the room ; `` sit down here beside me and listen to what I have to say . '' 
Edith obeyed , and taking her hand and Nina 's in his , as if the touch of them both would make him strong to unburden his mind , he began : `` Let me call you Edith , while I 'm talking , for the sake of one who loves you even as I love Nina . '' 
Edith started , and very foolishly replied , `` Do you mean Mr. Harrington ? '' 
She knew he did n't , but her heart was so sore on the subject of Arthur 's absence that she longed to be reassured in some way , and so said what she did . 
`` No , Edith , it is not Mr. Harrington , I mean , '' and Dr. Griswold 's bright eyes fastened themselves upon the trembling girl as if to read her inmost soul , and see how far her feelings were enlisted . 
`` Arthur , '' Edith repeated bitterly . 
He hates me , I know , '' and bursting into tears she buried her face in the lap of Nina , who sat upon the bed . 
`` Poor Edith ! '' 
God help you , Edith . 
He spoke earnestly , and a thrill of fear ran through Edith 's veins . 
Lifting up her head , she said , `` You talk as if it were a certainty that Arthur St. Claire loves me . 
He has never told me so -- never . '' 
She could not add that he had never given her reason to think so , for he had , and her whole frame quivered with joy as she heard her suspicions confirmed by Dr. Griswold . 
He has confessed as much to me , and this is why he has gone from home . 
It would be a wicked , wicked thing ; and Edith -- are you listening -- do you hear all I say ? '' 
`` Yes , '' came faintly from Nina 's lap , where Edith had laid her face again . 
Edith , swear you 'll never marry Arthur . 
Swear , Edith , swear . '' 
His voice was raised to a shriek , and by the dim light of the lamp , which fell upon his pallid features , both Edith and Nina saw the wild delirium flashing from his eye . 
Nina was the first to detect it , and wringing Edith 's hand she whispered , imploringly , `` Swear , Miggie , once . 
Frightened as Edith was at Dr. Griswold 's manner she could not repress a smile at Nina 's mistaken idea . 
Still she did notswear , and all that night he continued talking incoherently of Arthur , of Edith , of Nina , Geneva , Richard Harrington , and a thousand other matters , mingling them together in such a manner that nothing clear or connected could be made of what he said . 
Thus far Edith and the servants had shared her vigils , but this night she preferred to be alone , insisting that Edith , who began to show signs of weariness , should occupy the little room adjoining , where she could be called , if necessary . 
Once she thought of wakening Edith to share in her transports , but was withheld from doing so by a feeling that `` Miggie '' would not approve her work . 
`` Sing , Nina , sing , '' he whispered , and on the night air a mournful cadence rose , swelling sometimes so high that Edith moved uneasily upon her pillow , while even Phillis stretched out a hand as if about to awaken . 
Then the music changed to a plaintive German song , and Edith dreamed of Bingen on the Rhine , while Dr. Griswold listened eagerly , whispering at intervals , `` Precious Nina , blessed dove , sing on -- sing till I am at rest . '' 
Sadly the mourners , Arthur , Edith and Nina , went to their respective homes , Edith seeking the rest she so much needed , Nina subdued and awed into perfect quiet , sitting with folded hands in the room where her truest friend had died , while Arthur , alone in his chamber , held as it were communion with the dead , who seemed this night to be so near to him . 
He saw but little of Edith now ; the lessons had been tacitly given up , and , after what she had heard from Dr. Griswold , she could not come to Grassy Spring just as she used to do , so she remained at home , marvelling at the change in Arthur , and wondering if he really loved her , why he did not tell her so . 
Much of what Dr. Griswold had said she imputed to delirium , and with the certainty that she was beloved , she would not dwell upon anything which made her unhappy , and she waited for the end , now hastening on with rapid strides . 
Edith sat as usual upon a stool at Richard 's feet , and her face wore a look of disappointment . 
He was reserving Eloise Temple for a furture day , and he said to Edith , `` I can not tell you of her yet , or where she is . '' 
and Edith spoke pettishly . 
`` Edith , '' Richard replied , `` I do not wish to explain to you now . 
By and by I 'll tell you , it may be , though even that will depend on circumstances ; '' and he sighed as he thought what the circumstances must be which would keep from Edith any further knowledge of Eloise than she already possessed . 
Edith did not hear the sigh . 
She only knew that it was useless to question him , and beating her little foot impatiently , she muttered , `` More mystery . 
-- '' She did not finish what she meant to say , for at that moment she spied Arthur and Nina coming through the garden gate as the nearest route . 
Edith was not in the best of humors . 
It was a dangerous experiment , for Edith 's soul looked through her eyes , and Arthur read therein that which sent feverish heats and icy chills alternately through his veins . 
Releasing her hand he sat down upon the upper step of the piazza , and leaning against one of the pillars , began to pluck the leaves within his reach , and mechanically tear them in pieces . 
Meantime Richard had signified to Edith his wish that she should bring another stool , and sit beside him just as Nina was doing . 
exclaimed Edith , at the same time asking Arthur if he was hurt as he started suddenly . 
But Edith was not to be put off , even if Nina were . 
cried Edith ; `` and you married them , did n't you ? 
cried Edith , eagerly , `` you could surely tell by that , unless they were feigned . '' 
`` But the copy , '' chimed in Edith , `` that will tell . 
`` Ah-h , '' and Arthur drew a long , long breath , which prompted Edith to ask if he were tired . 
`` You 're not as much interested as I am , '' she said . 
and she turned to Richard , who replied , `` I can hardly judge the height of either . 
`` It 's queer you never heard of them afterward , '' said Edith ; while Nina , looking up in the blind man 's face , rejoined , `` You did it then ? '' 
`` I do not know what you mean , '' Richard said , and as Arthur did not volunteer any information , but sat carelessly scraping his thumb nail with a pen-knife , Edith made some trivial remark which turned the channel of Nina 's thoughts , and she forgot to urge the request that `` it should be scratched out . '' 
The sun , round and red , as the October sun is wont to be , shone brightly upon Collingwood , and looked cheerily into the room where Edith Hastings sat , waiting apparently for some one whose tardy appearance filled her with impatience . 
In her hand she held a tiny note received the previous night , and as she read for the twentieth time the few lines contained therein , her blushes deepened on her cheek , and her black eyes grew softer and more subdued in their expression . 
`` Edith , '' the note began , `` I must see you alone . 
The words were very cold , but to Edith they contained a world of meaning . 
She knew she was beloved by Arthur St. Claire . 
Dr. Griswold had told her so . 
Edith was like all other maidens of eighteen , and her girlish heart fluttered with joy as she thought what her answer would be , but not at first , -- not at once , lest she seem too anxious . 
If he loved her why had n't he told her before ! 
This was Edith 's reasoning as she sat waiting that October afternoon for Arthur , who came ere long , looking happier , more like himself than she had seen him since the memorable day when she first met Nina . 
Arthur had determined to do right , to tell without reserve the whole of his past history to Edith Hastings , and the moment he reached this decision half his burden was lifted from his mind . 
Gladly would he have died could he thus have blotted out the past and made Edith his wife , but he could not , and he had come to tell her so . 
Never had she been more beautiful than she was that afternoon . 
Her dress of crimson merino contrasted well with her clear dark complexion . 
Her magnificent hair , arranged with far more care than usual , was wound in many a heavy braid around her head , while , half-hidden amid the silken bands , and drooping gracefully behind one ear , was a single white rose-bud , mingled with scarlet blossoms of verbena ; the effect adding greatly to her beauty . 
Excitement lent a brighter sparkle to her brilliant eyes , and a richer bloom to her glowing cheeks , and thus she sat waiting for Arthur St. Claire , who felt his heart grow cold and faint as he looked upon her , and knew her charms were not for him . 
She detected his agitation , and as a kitten plays with a captured mouse , torturing it almost to madness , so she played with him ere suffering him to reach the point . 
Rapidly she went from one subject to another , dragging him with her whether he would or not , until at last as if suddenly remembering herself , she turned her shining eyes upon him , and said , `` I have talked myself out , and will now give you a chance . 
But he could not do so now . 
Thrice he attempted to articulate , but his tongue seemed paralyzed , and reeking with perspiration , he sat unable to move until she said again , `` Is it of Nina you would tell me ? '' 
Then the spell was broken , Nina was the sesamewhich unlocked his powers of speech ; and wiping the large drops from his forehead , he answered , `` Yes , Edith , of Nina , of myself , of you . 
Edith , you know how much I love you , do n't you , darling ? '' 
He did not answer her at once , but retained within his own the little hand which trembled for a moment like an imprisoned bird and then grew warm and full of vigorous life just as Edith was , standing there before him . 
`` You mistake me , I can not , '' he began to say , but Edith did not heed it , for a sound without had caught her ear , telling her that Richard had unexpectedly returned , and Victor was coming for her . 
There was an expression of impatience on Edith 's face , as to Victor 's summons she replied , `` Yes , yes , in a moment ; '' but Arthur breathed more freely as , rising to his feet , he said , `` I can not now say all I wish to say , but meet me , to-morrow at this hour in the Deering Woods , near the spot where the mill brook falls over those old stones . 
He wrung her hand , pitying her more than he did himself , for he knew how little she suspected the true nature of what he intended to tell her . 
`` God help us both , me to do right , and her to bear it , '' was his mental prayer , as he left her at the door of the room where Richard was waiting for her . 
Would it be a deadly sin to marry Edith Hastings ? 
Poor Edith , she will need your sympathy so much ; '' and with trembling hands Arthur himself wrapped Nina 's shawl around her , taking more care than usual to see that she was shielded from the possibility of taking cold ; then , leading her to the door and pointing in the direction of the miniature Niagara he bade her go , watching her with a beating heart as she bounded across the fields toward the Deering woods . 
Edith had been in a state of feverish excitement all the day , so happy had she been made by the certainty that Arthur loved her . 
She had not doubted it before , but having it told her in so many words was delightful , and she could scarcely wait for the hour when she was to hear the continuation of a story abruptly terminated by the return of Richard . 
Ordinarily Edith would have been delighted at this meeting , but now she could not forbear wishing Nina away , and she said to her somewhat sternly , `` What made you come ? '' 
`` He sent me , '' and Nina crouched down at Edith 's feet , like a frightened spaniel . 
Edith asked , a little sharply , and Nina replied , `` I was in the library . 
Edith was puzzled , and was about to question Nina as to her meaning , when another step was heard , a manly , heavy tread , precluding all possibility of a mistake this time . 
Edith had never noticed so great a change in so short a time , for there was scarcely a vestige left of the once handsome , merry-hearted Arthur in the stooping , haggard man , who stood before her , with blood-shot eyes , and an humble , deprecating manner , as if imploring her forgiveness for the pain he had come to inflict . 
Nothing could prevent it now . 
He thought of her only as a being for whose sake he would gladly die the most torturing death that human ingenuity could devise , if by this means , he could rescue her unscathed from the fire he had kindled around her . 
But this could not be ; he had fallen , dragging her down with him , and now he must restore her even though it broke her heart just as his was broken . 
Edith said at last , as Nina , uttering a cry of fear , hid her face in the grass to shut out Arthur from her sight . 
Seating himself upon a log near by , and clasping his hands together with a gesture of abject misery , Arthur replied , `` Edith , I am not worthy to look into your face ; unless you take your eyes from mine -- oh , take them away , or I can not tell you what I must . '' 
Had her very life depended upon it , Edith could not have removed her eyes from his . 
An undefinable fear was curdling her blood -- a fear augmented by the position of her two companions -- Nina , with her head upon the grass , and that strange , white-faced being on the log . 
Could thatbe Arthur St. Claire , or was she laboring under some horrible delusion ? 
No , the lips moved ; it was Arthur , and leaning forward she listened to what he was saying . 
`` Edith , when yesterday I was with you , some words which I uttered and which were wrung from me , I know not how , gave you reason to believe that I was then asking you to become my wife , while something in your manner told me that to such asking you would not answer no . 
Edith , do you remember the obstacle , the hindrance which I always said existed to my marrying any one ? '' 
Edith , you cannotbe my wife . '' 
She made a movement as if she would go to him , but his swaying arms kept her off , and he went on : `` There isan obstacle , Edith -- a mighty obstacle . 
I could trample it down if I would , and there is none to question the act ; but , Edith , I dare not do you this wrong . '' 
`` Do n't you know now , Edith , what it is which stands between us ? '' 
he asked ; and Edith answered , `` It is Nina , but how I do not understand . '' 
Oh , Edith , Edith -- put the past and present together -- remember the picture found in my room when you were a little girl , the picture of Nina Bernard ; think of all that has happened ; my dread to meet with Richard , though that you possibly did not know ; my foolish fear , lest you should know of Nina ; her clinging devotion to me ; my brotherly care for her ; Richard 's story of the one single marriage ceremony he ever performed , where the bride 's curls were like these , '' and he lifted Nina 's golden ringlets . 
`` Edith -- Edith -- Edith , '' and with each word he hugged Nina closer to him , so close that she gave a cry of pain , but he did not heed it ; he hardly knew he held her -- his thoughts were all for the poor , wretched girl , rising slowly to her feet . 
`` Edith , you surely understand me now . 
`` I know , '' and Edith Hastings stood tall and erect before him . 
Nina looked up and smiled , while Edith crossed her arms upon her breast , and waited for him to answer . 
`` Yes , Edith , -- though never before acknowledged as such , Nina is my wife ; but , Edith , I swear it before high Heaven , she is only a wife in name . 
Never for a day , or hour , or moment have I lived with her as such . 
Were it otherwise , I could not have fallen so low . 
Her father came the very night we were married , and took her away next morning . 
He kept whispering it to himself , as if thus he would impress it the more forcibly upon the unconscious Edith , who lay upon the withered grass just where Nina had lain , rigid and white and free for the present from all suffering . 
Hastening to Edith she knelt beside her , and lifting up her head pillowed it upon her lap , wiping from her temple the drops of blood slowly trickling from a cut , made by a sharp stone . 
`` Miggie , Miggie , '' she cried , `` wake up . 
Even this did not move him ; he only kissed the tiny hand wet with Edith 's blood , and whispered to her , `` Richard . '' 
Nina comprehended his meaning at once ; and when next he looked about him she was flying like a deer across the fields to Collingwood , leaving him alone with Edith . 
From where he sat he could see her face , and its corpse-like pallor chilled him with horror . 
He must go to her . 
It would be long ere Nina guided the blind man to the spot , and , exerting all his strength , he tottered to the brook , filled his hat with water , and crawling , rather than walking , to Edith 's side , dashed it upon her head , washing the stains of blood away , and forcing back the life so nearly gone . 
The blood from the wound upon the forehead was flowing freely now , and faint from its loss , Edith sank again into a state of unconsciousness , while Arthur , scarcely knowing what he did , crept away to a little distance , where , leaning against a tree , he sat insensible as it were , until the sound of footsteps roused him , and he saw Nina coming , holding fast to the blind man 's wrist , and saying to him encouragingly , `` We are almost there . 
Victor had been sent to the village upon an errand for Richard , who was sitting in his arm-chair , just where Edith had left him an hour before , dozing occasionally , as was his custom after dinner , and dreaming of his singing bird . 
Victor would tell me if he saw any indications of his making love to Edith . '' 
Victor Dupres kept his own counsel with regard to Edith and the proprietor of Grassy Spring ; and when questioned by his master , as he sometimes was , he always answered , `` Monsieur St. Claire does nothing out of the way . '' 
Hearing a swift footstep coming up the walk , he held his breath to listen , thinking it was Edith , but a moment only sufficed to tell it was Nina . 
Down the lane , across the road , and over the fields Nina led him , bareheaded as he was , and in his thin-soled slippers , which were torn against the briers and stones , for in her haste Nina did not stop to choose the smoothest path , and Richard was too intent on Edith to heed the roughness of the way . 
`` Edith , darling , speak to me , '' and he chafed her nerveless hands , bidding Nina bring him water from the brook . 
The cold water brought by Nina roused Edith once more , and with a sigh she lay back on Richard 's bosom , so trustfully , so confidingly , that Arthur , looking on , foresaw what the future would bring , literally giving her up then and there to the blind man , who , as if accepting the gift , hugged her fondly to him and said aloud , `` I thank the good Father for restoring to me my Edith . '' 
Like a weary child Edith rested her head upon his shoulder , looking behind once , and regarding Arthur with a look he never forgot , even when the darkness in which he now was groping had passed away , and the full daylight was p593-202 shining o'er him . 
Nina did not return , and thinking that she would not , he started for home , never knowing how he reached there , or when ; only this he knew , no one suspected him of being in the Deering Woods when Edith Hastings was attacked with that strange fainting fit . 
Death brooded over Collingwood , and his black wing beat clamorously against the windows of the room to which , on that fearful night , Richard had borne his fainting burden , and where for days and weeks she lay so low that with every coming morning the anxious villagers listened for the first stroke of the bell which should tell that Edith was dead . 
Various were the rumors concerning the cause of her illness , all agreeing upon one point , to wit , that she had fainted suddenly in the woods with Nina , and in falling , had received a deep gash upon her forehead . 
He did not venture into her presence , though repeatedly urged to do so by Grace , who mentally accused him of indifference toward Edith . 
Alas , she knew not of the nightly vigils kept by the wretched man , when with dim eye and throbbing head he humbled himself before his Maker , praying to be forgiven for the sorrow he had wrought , and again wrestling in agony for the young girl , whose sick room windows he could see , watching the livelong night the flickering of the lamp , and fancying he could tell from its position , if any great change occurred in her . 
Richard was completely crushed , and without noticing any one he sat hour after hour , day after day , night after night , always in one place , near the head of the bed , his hands folded submissively together , and his sightless eyes fixed upon the pillow , where he knew Edith was , with a hopeless , subdued expression touching to witness . 
Sheremembered the time when the sight of Edith had wrung from her torrents of tears , cooling her burning brow , and proving a blessed relief , the good effects of which were visible yet . 
And now it was her task to make the blind man cry . 
She recognized something familiar in the hard , stony expression of his face , something which brought back the Asylum , with all its dreaded horrors . 
Dr. Griswold had called them crazy , and knowing well what that word implied she would save Richard from so sad a fate . 
`` It will be lonesome for you when Miggie 's gone , '' she said , as a prelude to the attempt ; `` lonesomer than it has ever been before ; and the nights will be so dark , for when the morning comes there 'll be no Miggie here . 
Her 's was a triple task , caring for Richard , caring for Arthur , and caring for Edith , but most faithfully did she perform it . 
Every day , when the sun was low in the western sky , she stole away to Grassy Spring , speaking blessed words of comfort to the despairing Arthur , who waited for her coming as for the visit of an angel . 
She was dearer to him now since he had confessed his sin to Edith , and could she have been restored to reason he would have compelled himself to make her his wife in reality as well as in name . 
She was a sweet creature , he knew ; and he always caressed her with unwonted tenderness ere he sent her back to the sick room , where Edith ever bemoaned her absence , missing her at once , asking for pretty Nina , with the golden hair . 
She apparently did not remember that Nina stood between herself and Arthur St. Claire , or , if she did , she bore no malice for the patient , allenduring girl who nursed her with so much care , singing to her the plaintive German air once sung to Dr. Griswold , and in which Edith would often join , taking one part , while Nina sang the other ; and the members of the household , when they heard the strange melody , now swelling loud and full , as some fitful fancy took possession of the crazy vocalists , and now sinking to a plaintive wail , would shudder , and turn aside to weep , for there was that in the music which reminded them of the hearse wheels grinding down the gravel , and of the village bell giving the eighteen strokes . 
Sometimes , for nearly a whole night those songs of the olden time would echo through the house , and with each note she sang the fever burned more fiercely in Edith 's veins , and her glittering black eyes flashed with increased fire , while her fingers clutched at her tangled hair , as if they thus would keep time to the thrilling strain . 
Her hair troubled her , it was so heavy , so thick , so much in her way , and when she manifested a propensity to relieve herself of the burden by tearing it from the roots , the physician commanded them to cut away those beautiful shining braids , Edith 's crowning glory . 
She remembered well when her own curls had fallen one by one beneath the shears of an unrelenting nurse , and she determined at all hazards to spare Edith from a like fancied indignity . 
`` Miggie 's hair shall not be harmed , '' she said , covering with her apron the wealth of raven tresses . 
I can manage her ; '' and the sequel proved that she was right . 
It was a singular power that blue-eyed blonde possessed over the dark-eyed brunette , who became at last as obedient to Nina 's will as Nina once had been to her 's , and it was amusing to watch Nina flitting about Edith , now reasoning with , now coaxing , and again threatening her capricious patient , who was sure eventually to do as she was bidden . 
Only once while the delirium lasted did Edith refer to Arthur , and then she said reproachfully , `` Oh , Nina , what made him do so ? '' 
They were alone , and bending over her , Nina replied , `` I am so sorry , Miggie , and I 'll try to have the ugly thing scratched out . '' 
It came to her one night , and whispering to Edith , `` I am going to get it fixed , '' she glided from the room and sought the library where she was sure of finding Richard . 
He heard Nina 's step , and knowing who it was , asked if Edith were worse . 
Going to his secretary she arranged materials for writing , and then taking his hand , said , in the commanding tone she used toward Edith when at all refractory , `` Come and write . 
he asked , as he rose from his chair and suffered her to lead him to the desk . 
He had written occasionally since his blindness , but it was not a frequent thing , and his fingers closed awkwardly about the pen she placed in his hand . 
Feeling curious to know the meaning of all this , he felt for the paper and then said to her , `` I am ready for you to dictate . '' 
`` That 'll cure her , sure , '' and folding it up , she hastened back to Edith 's chamber . 
Rachel knew this was true , and after an hour or so withdrew to another apartment , leaving Edith alone with Nina . 
For a time Edith slept quietly , notwithstanding that Nina rattled the spoons and upset a chair , hoping thus to wake her . 
Rightly guessing that Nina would read it aloud to Edith , he resolved to be within hearing distance , and when he heard Rachel leave the chamber he drew near the door , left ajar for the purpose of admitting fresher air . 
From his position he saw that Edith was asleep , while Nina , with the paper clasped tightly in her hand , sat watching her . 
Silent and motionless Victor stood , while Nina , bending over Edith , answered , `` Yes , Miggie , I am here , and I 've brought you something to make you well . 
and thrusting the paper into Edith 's hands she held the lamp close to her eyes . 
`` You hav n't strength , have you ? '' 
she continued , as Edith paid no heed . 
`` Let me do it for you , '' and taking the crumpled sheet , she read in tones distinct and clear : `` I , the blind man , Richard Harrington , do hereby solemnly swear that the marriage of Arthur St. Claire and Nina Bernard , performed at my house , in my presence , and by me , is null and void . 
Richard Harrington , Collingwood , November5 th ,18 -- '' Slowly a faint color deepened on Edith 's cheek , a soft lustre was kindled in her eye , and the great tears dropped from her long lashes . 
Her intellect was too much clouded for her to reason clearly upon anything , and she did not , for a moment , doubt the validity of what she heard . 
Richard could annul the marriage if he would , she was sure , and now that he had done so , the bitterness of death was past , -- the dark river forded , and she was saved . 
Nina had steered the foundering bark into a calm , quiet sea , and exulting in her good work , she held Edith 's head p593-211 upon her bosom , and whispered to her of the joyous future when she would live with Arthur . 
As a child listens to an exciting tale it only comprehends in part , so Edith listened to Nina , a smile playing about her mouth and dancing in her eyes , which at last , as the low voice ceased , closed languidly as did the soft blue orbs above them , and when the grey dawn stole into the room it found them sleeping in each other 's arms , -- the noble-hearted Nina who had virtually given up her husband and the broken-hearted Edith who had accepted him . 
They made a beautiful tableau , and Victor for a time stood watching them , wiping the moisture from his own eyes , and muttering to himself , `` Poor Edith , I understand it now , and pity you so much . 
It was late the next morning , ere Nina and Edith awoke from that long sleep , which proved so refreshing to the latter , stilling her throbbing pulse , cooling her feverish brow , and subduing the wild look of her eyes , which had in them the clear light of reason . 
Edith was better . 
She would live , the physician said , feeling a glow of gratified vanity as he thought how that last dose of medicine , given as an experiment , and about which he had been so doubtful , had really saved her life . 
Victor and Nina , too , had their theory with regard to the real cause of Edith 's convalescence , but each kept his own counsel , Victor saying to Richard when questioned as to whether he had read the paper or not , `` No , Miss Nina keeps it clutched tightly in her hand , as if suspecting my design . '' 
In her delight at Edith 's visible improvement , Nina forgot the paper for a day or two , and when at last she did remember it , making anxious inquiries for it , Mrs. Matson , who was not the greatest stickler for the truth , pacified her by saying she had burned up a quantity of waste papers scattered on the floor , and presumed this was among them . 
As Nina cared for nothing save to keep the scratching outfrom every one except those whom it directly concerned , she dismissed the subject from her mind , and devoted herself with fresh energy to Edith , who daily grew better . 
She had not seen Arthur since that night in the Deering Woods , neither did she wish to see him . 
She did not love him now , she said ; the shock had been so great as to destroy the root of her affections , and no excuse he could offer her would in the least palliate his sin . 
Edith was very harsh , very severe toward Arthur . 
She should never go to Grassy Spring again , she thought ; never look upon his face unless he came to Collingwood , which she hoped he would not do , for an interview could only be painful to them both . 
She should tell him how deceived she was in him , and Edith 's cheeks grew red , and her eyes unusually bright , as she mentally framed the speech she should make to Arthur St. Claire , if ever they did meet . 
asked Edith . 
Drying her tears , Nina , in her peculiar way , related how `` Arthur would n't believe it was scratched out ; Richard could n't do such a thing , he said ; nobody could do it , but a divorce , and Arthur would n't submit to that . 
and the blue eyes flashed as Edith had never seen them flash before . 
And fixing her gaze upon the window opposite , Nina seemed to be living over the past , and trying to arrange the events of her life in some clear , tangible form . 
Gradually as she talked Edith had softened toward Arthur -- poor Arthur , who had borne so much . 
She might , perhaps , forgive him , but to forgetwas impossible . 
She had suffered too much at his hands for that , and attering a faint moan as she thought how all her hopes of happiness were blasted , she turned on her pillow just as Nina , coming out of her abstracted fit , said to her , `` Did I tell you we are going to Florida -- Arthur and I -- going back to our old home , in two or three days , Arthur says it is better so . 
Why did Edith 's heart throb so painfully , as she thought of Nina cured , and taken to Arthur 's bosom as his wife . 
and the Edith , who would n't for the world meet Arthur St. Claire again , uncovered her face eagerly . 
Edith 's voice faltered as she made this request , but Nina received it in perfect good faith , answering that she would remain at home . 
Edith however felt that it was better for them both to part . 
She had caught a glimpse of her own heart , and knew that its bleeding fibres still clung to him , and still would cling till time and absence had healed the wound . 
`` I will be very cold and indifferent to-morrow , '' she said to herself , when after Nina 's departure , she lay , anticipating the dreaded meeting and working herself up to such a pitch of excitement that the physician declared her symptoms worse , asking who had been there , and saying no one must see her , save the family , for several days . 
The doctor 's word was law at Collingwood , and with sinking spirits Edith heard Richard in the hall without , bidding Mrs. Matson keep every body from the sick room for a week . 
Even Nina was not to be admitted , for it was clearly proved that her last visit had made Edith worse . 
What should she do ? 
Arthur would be gone ere the week went by , and she mustsee him . 
Suddenly Victor came into her mind . 
Showing him into the parlor , Victor sought Richard 's presence , and by a few masterly strokes of policy and well-worded arguments , obtained his consent for Arthur to see Edith just a few moments . 
Richard did not know , but he suffered himself to be persuaded , and Victor returned to Arthur , whom he conducted in triumph to the door of Edith 's chamber . 
She heard his well known step . 
She knew that he was coming , and the crimson spots upon her cheeks told how much she was excited . 
Arthur did not offer to caress her -- he dared not do that now -- but he knelt by her side , and burying his face in her pillow , said to her , `` I have come for your forgiveness , Edith . 
Edith meant to be very cold , but her voice was choked as she replied , `` I can forgive you , Arthur , but to forget is harder far . 
`` Edith , '' and Arthur spoke almost sternly . 
`` No , no , '' she moaned , `` not as she is now , but years ago . 
`` Oh , Edith , Edith , you drive me mad , '' and Arthur took in his the hand which all the time had unconsciously been creeping toward him . 
and , in her excitement , Edith raised herself in bed , and sat looking at him with eyes which grew each moment rounder , blacker , brighter , but had in them , alas , no expression of joy ; and when in answer to her appeal , Arthur said , `` I shall make her my wife , '' she fell back upon her pillow , uttering a moaning cry , which to the startled Arthur sounded like , `` No , no ! 
`` Edith , '' and rising to his feet Arthur stood with folded arms , gazing pityingly upon her , himself now the stronger of the two . 
`` Edith , you , of all others , must not tempt me to fall . 
If it will take one iota from your pain to know that Nina shall never be my acknowledged wife , save as she is now , I will swear to you that , were her reason ten times restored , she shall not ; But , Edith , do n't , do n't make me swear it . 
Help me to do right , wo n't you , Edith ? '' 
He knelt beside her again , pleading with her not to tempt him from the path in which he was beginning to walk ; and Edith , as she listened , felt the last link , which bound her to him , snapping asunder . 
For a moment she hadwavered ; had shrank from the thought that any other could ever stand to him in the relation she once had hoped to stand ; but that weakness was over , and while chiding herself for it , she hastened to make amends . 
Turning her face toward him , and laying both her hands on his bowed head , she said , `` May the Good Father bless you , Arthur , even as you prove true to Nina . 
And now farewell , myArthur , I once fondly hoped to call you , but mine no longer -- Nina ` sArthur -- go . '' 
She made a gesture for him to leave her , but did not unclose her eyes . 
She could not look upon him , and know it was the last , last time , but she offered no remonstrance when he left upon her lips a kiss so full of hopeless and yearning tenderness that it burned there many a day after he was gone . 
She heard him turn away , heard him cross the floor , knew he paused upon the threshold , and still her eye-lids never opened , though the hot tears rained over her face in torrents . 
`` The sweetest joy I have ever known was my love for you , Edith Hastings , '' he whispered , and then the door was closed between them . 
Down the winding stairs he went , Edith counting every step , for until all sound of him had ceased she could not feel that they were parted forever . 
He would soon be out of sight , and with an intense desire to stamp his image upon her mind just as he was now , the changed , repentant Arthur , Edith arose , and tottering to the window , looked after him , through blinding tears , as he passed slowly from her sight , and then crawling , rather than walking back to her bed , she wept herself to sleep . 
It was a heavy , unnatural slumber , and when she awoke from it , the fever returned with redoubled violence , bringing her a second time so near the gates of death that Arthur St. Claire deferred his departure for several days , and Nina became again the nurse of the sick room . 
Edith was unconscious of everything , and did not even know when Nina 's farewell kiss was pressed upon her lips and Nina 's gentle hands smoothed her hair for the last time . 
Seizing the scissors , which lay upon the stand , she severed one of her golden curls , and placing it on Edith 's pillow , glided from the room , followed by the blessing of those who had learned to love the beautiful little girl as such as she deserved to be loved . 
Then the New Year dawned upon the world , and still the thick , dark curtains shaded the windows of Edith 's room . 
But there came a day at last , a pleasant January day , when the curtains were removed , the blinds thrown open , and the warm sunlight came in shining upon Edith , a convalescent . 
Very frail and beautiful she looked in her crimson dressing gown , and her little foot sat loosely in the satin slipper , Grace Atherton 's Chistmas gift . 
The rich lace frill encircling her throat was fastened with a locket pin of exquisitely wrought gold , in which was encased a curl of soft , yellow hair , Nina 's hair , a part of the tress left on Edith 's pillow . 
This was Richard 's idea , -- Richard 's New Year 's gift to his darling ; but Richard was not there to share in the general joy . 
Just across the hall , in a chamber darkened as hers had been , he was lying now , worn out with constant anxiety and watching . 
When Nina left , his prop was gone , and the fever which had lain in wait for him so long , kindled within his veins a fire like to that which had burned in Edith 's , but his strong , muscular frame met it fiercely , and the danger had been comparatively slight . 
All this Grace told to Edith on that morning when she was first suffered to sit up , and asked why Richard did not come to share her happiness , for in spite of one 's mental state , the first feeling of returning health is one of joy . 
Edith felt it as such even though her heart was so sore that every beat was painful . 
She longed to speak of Grassy Spring , but would not trust herself until Victor , reading her feelings aright , said to her with an assumed indifference , `` Mr. St. Claire 's house is shut up , all but the kitchen and the negro apartments . 
`` And Nina , '' Edith asked faintly , `` how is she ? '' 
Edith drew a long , deep sigh , and when next she spoke , she said , `` Take me to the window , please , I want to see the country . '' 
In an instant , Victor , who knew well what she wanted , took her in his arms , and carrying her to the window , set her down in the chair which Grace brought for her ; then , as if actuated by the same impulse , both left her and returned to the fire , while she looked across the snow-clad fields to where Grassy Spring reared its massive walls , now basking in the winter sun . 
Snow everywhere , as cold , as desolate as Edith 's heart , and she bade Victor take her back again to the warm grate where she might perhaps forget how gloomy and sad , and silent , was Grassy Spring . 
`` Did I say anything when I was delirious -- anything I ought not to have said ? '' 
That night as Grace Atherton took her leave of Edith , she bent over the young girl , and whispered in her ear , `` I know it all . 
God pity you , Edith ! 
Edith was nineteen . 
She was no longer the childish , merry-hearted maiden formerly known as Edith Hastings . 
Her cruel disappointment had ripened her into a sober , quiet woman , whose songs were seldom heard in the halls of Collingwood , and whose bounding steps had changed into a slower , more measured tread . 
Still , there was in her nature too much of life and vigor to be crushed out at once , and oftentimes it flashed up with something of its olden warmth , and the musical laugh fell again on Richard 's listening ear . 
He knew she was changed , but he imputed it all to her long , fearful sickness ; when the warm summer days came back , she would be as gay as ever , he thought , or if she did not he would in the autumn take her to Floridato visit Nina , for whom he fancied she might be pining . 
Once he said as much to her , but his blindness was a shield between them , and he did not see the sudden paling of her cheek and quivering of her lip . 
Edith was all he cared for ; -- to have her with him ; -- to hear her voice , -- to know that she was sitting near , -- that by stretching forth his hand he could lay it on her head , or feel her beautiful cheeks , -- this was his happiness by day , and when at night he parted unwillingly from her , there was still a satisfaction in knowing that he should meet her again on the morrow , -- in thinking that she was not far away , -- that by stepping across the hall and knocking at her door he could hear her sweet voice saying to him , `` What is it , Richard ? '' 
He liked to have her call him Richard , as she frequently did . 
It narrowed the wide gulf of twenty-one years between them , bringing him nearer to her , so near , in fact , that bridal veils and orange wreaths now formed a rare loveliness walked ever at his side , clothed in garments such as the mistress of Collingwood 's half million ought to wear , and this maiden was Edith -- the Edith who , on her nineteenth birth-day , sat in her own chamber devising a thousand different ways of commencing a conversation which she meant to have with her guardian , the subject of said conversation being no less a personage than Grace Atherton . 
Accidentally Edith had learned that not the Swedish baby 's mother , but Grace Elmendorff had been the lady who jilted Richard Harrington , and that , repenting bitterly of her girlish coquetry , Mrs. Atherton would now gladly share the blind man 's lot , and be to him what she had not been to her aged , gouty lord . 
Grace did not say all this to Edith , it is true , but the latter read as much in the trembling voice and tearful eyes with which Grace told the story of her early love , and to herself she said , `` I will bring this matter about . 
With this to engross her mind and keep it from dwelling too much upon the past , Edith became more like herself than she had been since that dreadful scene in the Deering woods . 
Even her long neglected piano was visited with something of her former interest , she practising the songs which she knew Grace could sing with her , and even venturing upon two or three duets , of which Grace played one part . 
It was a pleasant picture of domestic bliss which Edith drew that April morning , and it brought a glow to her cheeks , whence the roses all had fled . 
Once , indeed , as she remembered what Arthur had said concerning Richard 's probable intentions , and what she had herself more than half suspected , she shuddered with fear lest by pleading for Grace , she should bring a fresh trial to herself . 
But no , whatever Richard might once have thought of her , his treatment now was so fatherly that she had nothing to fear , and with her mind thus at ease Edith waited rather impatiently until the pleasant April day drew to its close . 
Now was Edith 's time if ever , and thrusting the worsted work she was crocheting into her pocket , she stepped to the library door and said pleasantly `` You seem to be in a deep study . 
`` And can always do without me , too , I dare say , '' Edith rejoined playfully , as she took her seat upon a low ottoman , near him . 
I am not blind then , and when a face fairer , more beautiful than any of which the poets ever sang , flits before me , I whisper to myself , ` that 's Edith , -- that 's my daylight . ' '' 
`` Oh , mistaken man , '' Edith returned , laughingly , `` how terribly you would be disappointed could you be suddenly restored to sight and behold the long , lank , bony creature Iknow as Edith Hastings -- low forehead , turned-up nose , coarse , black hair , all falling out , black eyes , yellowish black skin , not a particle of red in it -- the fever took that away and has not brought it back . 
Feel for yourself , if you do n't believe me , '' and she laid his hand upon her hair , which , though beautiful and abundant , still was quite uneven and had lost some of its former satin gloss . 
Edith 's description of her personal appearance made not a particle of difference with him . 
She was improving every day , and many pronounced her handsomer than before her sickness , for where there had been , perhaps , a superabundance of color and health there was now a pensive , subdued beauty , preferred by some to the more glowing , dashing style which had formerly distinguished Edith Hastings from every one else in Shannondale . 
Something like this he said to her , but Edith only laughed and continued her crocheting , wondering how she should manage to introduce Grace Atherton . 
It was already half-past eight , Victor might soon be home , and if she spoke to him that night she must begin at once . 
Clearing her throat and making a feint to cough , she plunged abruptly into the subject by saying , `` Richard , why have you never married ? 
Richard 's heart gave one great throb and then grew still , for Edith had stumbled upon the very thing uppermost in his mind . 
What made her ? 
and Edith started quickly . 
`` Edith , '' Richard answered , `` sit close to me while I tell you of one I once wished to make my wife . '' 
Edith drew nearer to him , and he placed upon her head the hands which were cold and clammy as if their owner were nerving himself for some mighty effort . 
`` Edith , in my early manhood I loved a young girl , and I thought my affection returned , but a wealthier , older man came between us , and she chose his riches in preference to walking in my shadow , for such she termed my father . '' 
`` But she 's repented , Mr. Harrington -- she surely has , '' and Edith dropped her work in her earnestness to defend Grace Atherton . 
`` She is sorry for what she made you suffer ; she has loved you through all , and would be yours now if you wish it , I am sure . 
You will forgive Grace Atherton , '' and in her excitement Edith knelt before him , pleading for her friend . 
Even before he answered her she knew she pleaded in vain , but she was not prepared for what followed the silence Richard was first to break . 
I did not think to talk of this to-night , but something compels me to do so -- tells me the time has come , and Edith , you must hear me before you speak , but sit here where I can touch you , and when I 'm through if what I 've said meets with a responsive chord , lay your hand in mine , and I shall know the nature of your answer . '' 
It was coming now -- the scene which Arthur foresaw when , sitting in the Deering woods , with life and sense crushed out , he gave his Edith up to one more worthy than himself . 
It was the foreshadowing of the `` Sacrifice , '' the first step taken toward it , and as one who , seeing his destiny wrapping itself about him fold on fold , sits down stunned and powerless , so Edith sat just where he bade her sit , and listened to his story . 
`` Years ago , Edith , a solitary , wretched man I lived in my dark world alone , weary of life , weary of every thing , and in my weariness I was even beginning to question the justice of my Creator for having dealt so harshly with me , when one day a wee little singing bird , whose mother nest had been made desolate , fluttered down at my feet , tired like myself , and footsore even with the short distance it had come on life 's rough journey . 
There was a note in the voice of this singing bird which spoke to me of the past , and so my interest grew in the helpless thing until at last it came to nestle at my side , not timidly , for such was not it 's nature , but as if it had a right to be there -- a right to be caressed and loved as I caressed and loved it , for I did learn to love it , Edith , so much , oh , so much , and the sound of it 's voice was sweeter to me than the music of the Swedish nightingale , who has filled the world with wonder . 
`` Edith , that face is always with me , and should it precede me to the better land , I shall surely know it from all the shining throng . 
I shall know my singing bird , which brought to our darkened household the glorious daylight , just as Arthur St. Claire said she would when he asked me to take her . '' 
From the ottoman where Edith sat there came a low , choking sound , but it died away in her throat , and with her hands locked so firmly together that the taper nails made indentation in the tender flesh , she listened , while Richard continued : `` It is strange no one has robbed me of my gem . 
At all events , no one has come between us , not even Arthur St. Claire , who is every way a desirable match for her . '' 
Again that choked , stifled moan , and a ring of blood told where the sharp nail had been , but Edith heeded nothing save Richard 's voice , saying to her , `` You have heard of little streams trickling from the heart of some grim old mountain , growing in size and strength as they advanced , until at last they became a mighty river , whose course nothing could impede . 
Such , Edith , is my love for that singing bird . 
Little by little , inch by inch , it has grown in its intensity until there is not a pulsation of my being which does not bear with it thoughts of her . 
But my bird is young while I am old . 
Her mate should be one on whose head the summer dews are resting , one more like Arthur St. Claire , and not an owl of forty years growth like me ; but she has not chosen such an one , and hope has whispered to the tough old owl that his bright-eyed dove might be coaxed into his nest ; might fold her wings there forever , nor seek to fly away . 
If this couldbe , Edith . 
I 'd line her cage all over with gold and precious stones , but the most costly gem of all should be the mighty unspeakable love I 'd bear to her . 
Aye , that I do bear her now , Edith , -- my daylight , my life . 
`` Edith , darling , where are you ? '' 
and his hand sought the ottoman where she had been , but where she was not now . 
Noiselessly , as he talked , she had crept away to the lounge in the corner , where she crouched like a frightened deer , her flesh creeping with nervous terror , and her eyes fastened upon the man who had repeated her name , asking where she was . 
`` Here , Richard , '' she answered at last , her eyelids involuntarily closing when she saw him rising , and knew he was coming toward her . 
She had forgotten her promise to Arthur that she would not answer Richard `` No , '' should he ask her to be his wife ; that , like Nina 's `` scratching out , '' was null and void , and when he knelt beside her , she said half bitterly , `` It must not be ; the singing bird can not mate with the owl ! '' 
Instantly there broke from the blind man 's lips a cry of agony so pitiful , so reproachful in its tone , that Edith repented her insulting words , and winding her arms around his neck , entreated his forgiveness for having so cruelly mocked him . 
`` You called yourself so first , '' she sobbed , `` or I should not have thought of it . 
She surely did not mean it , '' and Edith pressed her burning cheeks against his own . 
What was it she did not mean ? 
He asked himself this question many times during the moment of silence which intervened ; then as he felt her still clinging to him , his love for her rolled back upon him with overwhelming force , and kneeling before her as the slave to his master , he pleaded with her again to say it could be , the great happiness he had dared to hope for . 
he asked , and Edith was glad he put the question in this form , as without prevarication she could promptly answer , `` No , Richard , there is none . '' 
Do n't make my darkness darker , Edith . '' 
Oh , Edith , my early manhood was wasted ; I 've reached the autumn time , and the gloom which wrapped me then in its black folds lies around me still , and will you refuse to throw over my pathway a single ray of sunlight ? 
No , no , Edith , you wo n't , you ca n't . 
He understood her at last ; knew the heart he offered her was cast back upon him , and rising from his kneeling posture , he felt his way back to his chair , and burying his head upon a table standing near , sobbed as Edith had never heard man sob before , not even Arthur St. Claire , when in the Deering Woods he had rocked to and fro in his great agony . 
Sobs they were which seemed to rend his broad chest asunder , and Edith stopped her ears to shut out the dreadful sound . 
Edith fain would know , and listening intently , she hears him unconsciously whispering to himself , `` Oh , Edith , was it for this that I saved you from the Rhine , periling my life and losing my eyesight ? 
and Edith fairly screamed as she flew across the floor . 
Lifting up his head she pillowed it upon her bosom , and showering kisses upon his quivering lips , said to him , `` Tell me -- tell me , am Ithat Swedish baby , Ithat Eloise Temple ? '' 
He nodded in reply , and Edith continued : `` Ithe child for whose sake you were made blind ! 
May I be your wife ? '' 
She knelt before himnow ; hers was the supplicating posture , and when he shook his head , she continued , `` You think it a sudden change , and so it is , but I mean it . 
He could not see the eagerness of the fair young face upturned to his -- the clear , truthful light shining in Edith 's beautiful dark eyes , telling better than words could tell that she was sincere in her desire to join her sweet spring life with his autumn days . 
Edith , that remark prevented me from telling you then that you were Eloise , the Swedish mother 's baby . '' 
Never before had the words `` that Swedish mother '' touched so tender a chord in Edith 's heart as now , and forgetting every thing in her intense desire to know something of her own early history , she exclaimed , `` You knew my mother , Richard . 
The grand , royal eagle , Richard , is the just similitude for you , '' and forcing herself to sit upon his knee , she put her arms around his neck bidding him again tell her of her mother . 
With the elastic buoyancy of youth Edith could easily shake off the gloom which for a few brief moments had shrouded her like a pall , but not so with Richard . 
Richard heaved a sigh which smote heavily on Edith 's ear , for she guessed of what he was thinking , and she longed to reassure him of her intention to be his sight hereafter , but he was about to speak and she remained silent . 
`` I 'm so glad , '' interrupted Edith , `` As much as twenty-one years older , was n't he ? '' 
You have her voice , Edith , and its tones came back to me the first time I ever heard you speak . 
Still she loved him and clung to him , for he was the father of her child . 
You were a beautiful little creature , Edith , and I loved you so much that when I knew you had fallen from a bluff into the river , I unhesitatingly plunged after you . '' 
`` I remember it , '' cried Edith , `` I certainly do , or else it was afterwards told to me so often that it seems a reality . '' 
Still Edith persisted that she did remember the face of a little girl in the water as she looked over the rock , and of bending to touch the arm extended toward her . 
She remembered Bingen , too , with its purple grapes ; else why had she been haunted all her life with vine-clad hills and plaintive airs . 
It was inhabited by an elderly woman , who denied all knowledge of Edith Hastings until told that I was Richard Harrington . 
She would rather you should be poor , she said , than to be brought up by him , and as a means of eluding discovery , she said you should not bear his name , and with her dying tears she baptised you Edith Hastings . 
Edith asked eagerly ; and Richard replied , `` That is one thing I neglected to enquire , but when I met him in Europe I had the impression that it was in one of the Western or South-western states . '' 
Edith asked again , a daughter 's love slowly gathering in her heart in spite of the father 's cruelty to the mother . 
said Edith ; and Richard replied , `` It seems your mother was an orphan , and had no near relatives to whom you could be sent , and as Marie was then too poor and dependent to support you she placed you in the Asylum as Edith Hastings , visiting you occasionally until she went back to France , her native country . 
Her intention was to return in a few months , but a violent attack of inflammatory rheumatism came upon her , depriving her of the use of her limbs , and confining her to her bed for years , and so prevented her from coming back . 
He must have left a fortune , Edith , which by right is yours , if we can prove that you are his child , and with Marie 's aid I hope to do this sometime . 
Would it please you to have the little orphan , Edith Hastings , turn out to be an heiress ? '' 
`` Not for my own sake , '' returned Edith ; `` but if it would make you love me more , I should like it ; '' and she clung closer to him as he replied , `` Darling , that could not be . 
I think you must be like her , Edith , except that you are taller . 
`` A child -- a little girl , '' and Edith started quickly , but the lightning flash which had once gleamed across her bewildered mind , when in the Den she stood gazing at the picture of Miggie Bernard , did not come back to her now , neither did she remember Arthur 's story , so much like Richard 's . 
Edith was a famous castle-builder , and forgetting that this half-sister , were she living , would be much older than herself , she thought of her only as a school-girl , whose home should be at Collingwood , and on whom Mrs. Richard Harringtonwould lavish so much affection , wasting on her the surplus love which , perhaps , could not be given to the father -- husband . 
How then was her castle destroyed , when Richard said , `` She , too , is dead , so Mrs. Jamieson told me , and there is none of the family left save you . '' 
`` I wish I knew where mother was buried , '' Edith sighed , her tears falling to the memory of her girl mother , whose features it seemed to her she could recall , as well as a death-bed scene , when somebody with white lips and mournful black eyes clasped her in her arms and prayed that God would bless her , and enable her always to do right . 
It might have been a mere fancy , but to Edith it was a reality , and she said within herself , `` Yes , darling mother , I will do right , and as I am sure you would approve my giving myself to Richard , so I will be his wife . '' 
One wild , longing , painful throb her heart gave to the past when she had hoped for other bridegroom than the middle-aged man on whose knee she sat , and then laying her hot face against his bearded cheek , she whispered , `` You 've told the story , Richard . 
It does not need Marie to confirm it , though she , too , will come sometime to tell me who I am , but when she comes , I sha n't be Edith Hastings , shall I . 
They will be ` E. H. ' still -- Edith Harrington It has not a bad sound , has it ? '' 
`` Do n't , darling , please do n't , '' and Richard 's voice had in it a tone much like that which first rang through the room , when Edith said , `` It can not be . '' 
`` Richard , '' and Edith took his cold face between her soft , warm hands , `` Richard , wo n't you let the singing bird call you husband ? 
`` Oh , Edith , my precious Edith ! 
`` And I shall then be seventy-nine ; not so vast a difference , '' interrupted Edith . 
'T is then that I dread the contrast in you ; not when both are old ; and , Edith , remember this , you can never be old to me , inasmuch as I can never see you . 
I may feel that your smooth , velvety flesh is wrinkled , that your shining hair is thin , your soft round arms more sinewy and hard , but I can not see it , and in my heart I shall cherish ever the image I first loved as Edith Hastings . 
`` Not unless you show me such horrid pictures , '' Edith sobbed , impetuously , for in her heart of hearts she felt the truth of every word he uttered , and her whole soul revolted against the view presented to her of the coming time . 
But she would conquer such feelings -- she would be his wife , and drying her eyes she said , `` I can give you my decision now as well as at any other time , but if you prefer it , I will wait four weeks and then bring you the same answer I make you now -- I will be your wife . '' 
`` I dare not hope it , '' returned Richard , `` You will change your mind , I fear , but , Edith , if you do not , -- if you promise to be mine , do n't forsake me afterwards , for I should surely die , '' and as if he already felt the agony it would cost him to give his darling up after he had once possessed her , he clasped his hands upon his heart , which throbbed so rapidly that Edith heard its muffled beat and saw its rise and fall . 
`` I could not lose you and still live on without you , Edith , '' and he spoke impetuously , `` You wo n't desert me , if you promise once . '' 
`` Never , never , '' she answered , and with a good night kiss upon his lips she went out from the presence of the man she already looked upon as her future husband , breathing freer when she stood within the hall where he was not , and freer still when in her own chamber there was a greater distance between them . 
Alas , for Edith , and a thousand times alas , for poor , poor Richard ! 
Not for one moment did Edith waver in her purpose , and lest Richard should suspect what he could not see , she affected a gayety in his presence sadly at variance with her real feelings . 
Never had her merry laugh rang out so frequently before him -- never had her wit been one half so sparkling , and when he passed his hands over her flushed cheek , feeling how hot it was , he said to himself , `` The roses are coming back , she can not be unhappy , '' and every line and lineament of the blind man 's face glowed with the new-born joy springing up within his heart , and making the world around him one grand jubilee . 
Victor was quick to note the change in his master , and without the least suspicion of the truth , he once asked Edith , `` What made Mr. Harrington so young and almost boyish , acting as men were supposed to act when they were just engaged ? '' 
`` Victor , '' said Edith , after a moment 's reflection , `` can you keep a secret ? '' 
Edith 's heart yearned for sympathy -- for some one to sustain her -- to keep her from fainting by the wayside , and as she could not confide in Grace , Victor was her only remaining refuge . 
He had been the repositary of all her childish secrets , entering into her feelings as readily and even more demonstratively than any female friend could have done . 
Richard had grown more sensible , and Edith was the future wife of Arthur St. Claire . 
This was Victor 's theory , and never doubting that the same idea had a lodgment in the minds of both Arthur and Edith , he could not conceive it possible that the latter would deliberately give herself to Richard . 
Edith looked wonderingly at him as he raved on . 
`` Suppose I marry him then in her stead , '' Edith said , laughingly . 
returned Edith , bending over a geranium to hide her agitation . 
I believe I 'd forbid the banns myself , '' and Victor strode from the room , banging the door behind him , by way of impressing Edith still more forcibly with the nature of his opinion . 
Edith was disappointed . 
She had expected sympathy at least from Victor , had surely thought he would be pleased to have her for his mistress , and his words , `` I would rather see you dead , '' hurt her cruelly . 
It was an unnatural match , this union of autumn and spring , but she must do something . 
Any thing was preferable to the aimless , listless life she was leading now . 
She could not be any more wretched than she was , and she might perhaps be happier when the worst was over and she knew for certain that she was Richard 's wife . 
His wife!It made her faint and sick just to say those two words . 
What then would the reality be ? 
She loved him dearly as a guardian , a brother , and she might in time love him as her husband . 
Aye , more , they should be , and determining henceforth to keep her own counsel , and suffer Victor to believe it was Grace instead of herself , she ran into the garden , where she knew Richard was walking , and stealing to his side , caught his arm ere he was aware of her presence . 
Edith did not avoid him as he feared she would . 
On the contrary she rather sought his society than otherwise , never , however , speaking of the decision . 
It was a part of the agreement that they should not talk of it until the four weeks were gone , the weeks which to Richard dragged so slowly , while to Edith they flew on rapid wing ; and with every rising sun , she felt an added pang as she thought how soon the twelfth of May would be there . 
It wanted but four days of it when she joined him in the garden , and for the first time since their conversation Richard alluded to it by asking playfully , `` what day of the month it was ? '' 
`` The eighth ; '' and Edith 's eyes closed tightly over the tears struggling to gain egress , then with a mighty effort she added , laughingly , `` When the day after to-morrow comes , it will be the tenth , then the eleventh , then the twelfth , and then , you know , I 'm coming to you in the library . 
He 's sure to come in when I do n't want him , if he 's here , '' and this she said because she feared it would be harder to say yes if Victor 's reproachful eyes should once look upon her , as they were sure to do , if he suspected her designs . 
Richard could not understand why Victor must be sent away , but anything Edith asked was right , and he replied that Victor should not trouble them . 
and Edith dropped the hand she held , as if fearful lest the Frenchman should suspect . 
This was not the proper feeling , she knew , and returning to the house , she shut herself up in her room , crying bitterly because she could not make herself feel differently ! 
Edith was sick . 
The strong tension of nerves she had endured for four long weeks was giving way . 
`` Richard told me you were sick , '' she said , as she sat down by Edith 's side ; `` and you do look ghostly white . 
`` One of my nervous headaches ; '' and Edith turned from the light so that her face should tell no tales of the conflict within . 
Edith was doubly glad now that she had turned her face away , for by so doing she hid the tears which dropped so fast upon her pillow . 
Still it was better not to withhold the truth , and bending over her she answered , `` No , Edith , he did not . 
came next from the depths of the pillows where Edith lay half smothered . 
I do n't know anything except that I wish I was dead , '' and the silent weeping became a passionate sobbing as Edith shrank further from Grace , plunging deeper and deeper among her pillows until she was nearly hidden from view . 
Grace could not comfort her ; there was no comfort as she saw , and as Edith refused to answer any of her questions upon indifferent topics , she ere long took her leave , and Edith was left alone . 
She had reversed her decision while Grace was sitting there , and the news from Florida was the immediate cause . 
It was not Edith Hastings who left that pleasant chamber , moving with an unfaltering step down the winding stairs and across the marble hall , but a half-crazed , defiant woman going on to meet her destiny , and biting her lip with vexation when she heard that Richard had company -- college friends , who being in Shannondale on business had come up to see him . 
Edith readily guessed the cause of his disquiet , and impatiently stamped her little foot upon the marble floor , for she knew their presence would necessarily defer the evil hour , and she could not live much longer in her present state of excitement . 
Victor spoke sareastically , but Edith merely replied , `` Tell your master I will come in a few minutes . '' 
Then , with a half feeling of relief , she ran back to her room , bathing her eyes afresh , and succeeding in removing the redness to such an extent , that by lamplight no one would suspect she had been crying . 
Her headache was gone , and with spirits somewhat elated , she started again for the parlor where she succeeded in entertaining Richard 's guests entirely to his satisfaction . 
As they were leaving the parlor Edith came to Richard 's side , and in a whisper so low that no one heard her , save himself , said to him , `` Tell Victor he need n't come back . '' 
He understood her meaning , and said to his valet , `` I shall not need your services to-night . 
Something in his manner awakened Victor 's suspicions , and his keen eyes flashed upon Edith , who , with a haughty toss of the head , turned away to avoid meeting it again . 
The door was closed at last ; Victor was gone ; their guests were gone , and she was alone with Richard , who seemed waiting for her to speak ; but Edith could not . 
The breath she fancied would come so freely with Victor 's presence removed , would scarcely come at all , and she felt the tears gathering like a flood every time she looked at the sightless man before her , and thought of what was to come . 
By a thousand little devices she strove to put it off , and remembering that the piano was open , she walked with a faltering step across the parlor , closed the instrument , smoothed the heavy cover , arranged the sheets of music , whirled the music stool as high as she could turned it back as low as she could , sat down upon it , crushed with her fingers two great tears , which , with all her winking she could not keep in subjection , counted the flowers on the paper border and wondered how long she should probably live . 
Then , with a mighty effort she arose , and with a step which this time did not falter , went and stood before Richard , who was beginning to look troubled at her protracted silence . 
He knew she was near him now , he could hear her low breathing , and he waited anxiously for her to speak . 
Edith 's face was a study then . 
The latter feelings conquered , and sitting down by Richard , she took his warm hand between her two cold ones , and said to him , `` 'T is the twelfth of May to-night , did you know it ? '' 
Did he know it ? 
He had thought of nothing else the livelong day , and when , early in the morning , he heard that she was sick , a sad foreboding had swept over him , lest what he coveted so much should yet be withheld . 
But she was there beside him . 
She had sought the opportunity and asked if he knew it was the twelfth , and , drawing her closer to him , he answered back : `` Yes , darling ; 't is the day on which you were to bring me your decision . 
Now tell me , is it the old blind man 's wife , the future mistress of Collingwood , that I encircle with my arm ? '' 
He bent down to listen for the reply , feeling her breath stir his hair , and hearing each heart-beat as it counted off the seconds . 
Then like a strain of music , sweet and rich , but oh , so touchingly sad , the words came floating in a whisper to his ear , `` Yes , Richard , your future wife ; but please , do n't call yourself the old blind man . 
Richard wished he knew . 
Did sweet Lucy Collingwood , when she gave her young spring life to his father 's brown October ? 
Lucy had loved her husband , he knew , and there was quite as much difference between them as between himself and Edith . 
Possibly 't was a maidenly weakness to cry , as Edith was doing . 
It were death to think otherwise , and caressing her with unwonted tenderness , he kissed her tears away , telling her how happy she had made him by promising to be his -- how the darkness , the dreariness all was gone , and the world was so bright and fair . 
Then , as she continued weeping and he remembered what had heretofore passed between them , he said to her earnestly : `` Edith , there is one thing I would know . 
If it is , Edith , I would die rather than accept it . 
Like an erring , but penitent child , Edith crept into his lap , but did not look into the sightless eyes . 
She dared not , lest the gaze should wring from her quivering lips the wild words trembling there , `` Forgive me , Richard , but I loved Arthur first . '' 
So she hid her face in his bosom , and said to him , `` I do not love you , Richard , as you do me . 
There would then have been no bad black-haired Edith lying in your lap , and torturing you with fears that she does not love you as she ought . '' 
Edith 's was an April temperament , and already the sun was shining through the cloud ; the load at her heart was not so heavy , nor the future half so dark . 
Her decision was made , her destiny accepted , and henceforth she would abide by it nor venture to look back . 
`` Are you satisfied to take me on my terms ? '' 
she asked , as Richard did not immediately answer . 
He would rather she had loved him more , but it was sudden , he knew , and she was young . 
He was terribly afraid , it is true , that gratitude alone had influenced her actions , but the germ of love was there , he believed ; and by and by it would bear the rich , ripe fruit . 
He could wait for that ; and he loved her so much , wanted her so much , needed her so much , that he would take her on any terms . 
`` Yes , '' he said at last , resting his chin upon her bowed head , `` I am satisfied , and never since my remembrance , has there come to Richard Harrington a moment so fraught with bliss as this in which I hold you in my arms and know I hold my wife , my darling wife , sweetest name ever breathed by human tongue -- and Edith , if you must sicken of me , do it now -- to-night . 
`` Richard , '' and , lifting up her head , Edith looked into the eyes she could not meet before , `` I swear to you , solemnly , that never , by word or deed , will I seek to be released from our engagement , and if I am released , it will be because you give me up of your own free will . 
You will be the one to break it , not I. '' `` Then it will not be broken , '' came in a quick response from Richard , as he held closer to him one whom he now felt to be his forever . 
The lamps upon the table , and the candles on the mantel flashed and smoked , and almost died away -- the fire on the marble hearth gave one or two expiring gasps and then went out -- the hands of the clock moved onward , pointing to long after midnight , and still Richard , loth to let his treasure go , kept her with him , talking to her of his great happiness , and asking if early June would be too soon for her to be his bride . 
`` Yes , yes , much too soon , '' cried Edith . 
Were it not that the same roof sheltered them both , Richard would have acceded to this delay , but when he reflected that he should not be parted from Edith any more than if they were really married , he consented , stipulating that the wedding should take place on the anniversary of the day when she first came to him with flowers , and called him `` poor blind man . '' 
`` You did not think you 'd ever be the poor blind man 's wife , '' he said , asking her , playfully , if she were not sorry even now . 
`` No , '' she answered . 
Nor was she . 
In fact , she scarcely felt at all . 
Her heart was palsied , and lay in her bosom like a block of stone -- heavy , numb , and sluggish in its beat . 
Of one thing , only , was she conscious , and that a sense of weariness -- a strong desire to be alone , up stairs , where she was not obliged to answer questions , or listen to loving words , of which she was so unworthy . 
She was deceiving Richard , who , when his quick ear caught her p593-253 smothered yawn , as the little clock struck one , bade her leave him , chiding himself for keeping her so long from the rest he knew she needed . 
`` For me , I shall never know fatigue or pain again , '' he said , as he led her to the door , `` but my singing-bird is different -- she must sleep . 
You have made the blind man very happy . '' 
`` Victor is faithful , '' Edith said , as she saw the light , and fancied that the Frenchman was still up , waiting to assist his master . 
What Victor designed he was pretty sure to accomplish , and when , by the voices in the lower hall , he knew that Edith was coming , he stole on tip-toe to the balustrade , and , leaning over , saw the parting at the parlor door , feeling intuitively that Edith 's relations to Richard had changed since he last looked upon her . 
Never was servant more attached to his master than was Victor Dupres to his , and yet he was strongly unwilling that Edith 's glorious beauty should be wasted thus . 
`` If she loved him , '' he said to himself , as , gliding back to his room , he cautiously shut the door , ere Edith reached the first landing . 
There 'll be another grave in the Collingwood grounds -- another name on the tall monument , ` Edith , wife of Richard Harrington , aged 20 . ' '' 
Victor wrote the words upon a slip of paper , reading them over until tears dimmed his vision , for , in fancy , the imaginative Frenchman assisted at Edith 's obsequies , and even heard the grinding of the hearse wheels , once foretold by Nina . 
Several times he peered out into the silent hall , seeing the lamplight shining from the ventilator over Edith 's door , and knowing by that token that she had not retired . 
What was she doing there so long ? 
Long association with Victor had led Edith to treat him more as an equal than a servant ; consequently he took liberties both with her and Richard , which no other of the household would dare to do , and now , as there came no response , he cautiously turned the knob and walked into the room where , in her crimson dressing-gown , her hair unbound and falling over her shoulders , Edith sat , her arms crossed upon the table , and her face upon her arms . 
She was not sleeping , for as the door creaked on its hinges , she looked up , half-pleased to meet only the good-humored face of Victor where she had feared to see that of Richard . 
and Edith 's eyes flashed with insulted pride ; but Victor did not quail before them . 
Gazing steadily at her , he replied , `` You are engaged to your guardian , and you do not love him . '' 
and Edith struck her hand upon the table with a force which made the glass lamp rattle . 
Across the table the blanched , frightened face of Edith looked , and the eyes which never before had been so black , scanned Victor keenly . 
`` What do you know of Arthur St. Claire 's ties ? '' 
Victor made no answer , but hurrying from the room , soon returned with the crumpled , soiled sheet of foolscap , which he placed before her , asking if she ever saw it before . 
Edith 's mind had been sadly confused when Nina read to her the scratching out , and she had forgotten it entirely , but it came back to her now , and catching up the papers , she recognized Richard 's unmistakable hand-writing . 
He told her how -- thus exonerating Richard from blame , and the hard , angry look was drowned in tears as Edith wept aloud . 
`` Then he do n't know it , '' she said at length , `` Richard do n't . 
`` I can tell him , '' was Victor 's dry response , and in an instant Edith was over where he sat . 
I would not harm a hair of Richard 's head , and he so noble , so good , so helpless , with so few sources of enjoyment ; but oh , Victor , I did love Arthur best -- did love him so much , '' and in that wailing cry Edith 's true sentiments spoke out . 
`` I did love him so much -- I love him so much now , '' and she kept whispering it to herself , while Victor sought in vain for some word of comfort , but could find none . 
Once he said to her , `` Wait , and Nina may die , '' but Edith recoiled from him in horror . 
`` Never hint that again , '' she almost screamed . 
He found it so that time he went with you to New York , '' and Edith 's tears ceased as she repeated to Victor all she knew of her early history . 
`` Should n't I marry him ? '' 
Victor conceded that she owed much to Richard , but nothing could make him think it right for her to marry him with her present feelings . 
It would be a greater wrong to him than to refuse him , but Edith did not think so . 
`` He 'll never know what I feel , '' she said , and by and by I shall be better , -- shall love him as he deserves . 
Edith , the case is like this : I wish , and the world at large , if it could speak , would wish for Richard to marry you , but would not wish you to marry Richard . '' 
`` But I shall , '' interrupted Edith . 
`` Tell me first what you meant by early June , and October , '' he said , and after Edith had explained , he continued , `` Let the wedding be still appointed for October , and unless I see that it is absolutely killing you , I will not enlighten Mr. Harrington . '' 
And this was all the promise Edith could extort from him . 
`` He shall see that it will not kill me , '' she said to herself . 
Thus deciding , she turned toward the window where the gray dawn was stealing in , and pointing to it , said : `` Look , the day is breaking ; the longest night will have an end , so will this miserable pain at my heart . 
He knew it was , by the expression of her face , which , in the dim lamp-light , looked ghastly and worn , and he was about to leave her , when she called him back , and asked how long he had lived with Mr. Harrington . 
Where were you , when -- when -- '' Edith could not finish , but Victor understood what she would ask , and answered her , `` I must have been in Paris . 
There 's a moral there , Edith ; a warning to all foolish college boys , and girls , who do n't half know their minds . 
Edith was too intent upon her own matters to care for morals , and without replying directly , she said , `` Richard will tell you to-morrow , or to-day , rather , of the engagement , and you 'll be guarded , wo n't you ? '' 
Edith made a gesture for him to leave her , and with a low bow he withdrew , while Edith , alternately shivering with cold and flushed with fever , crept into bed , and fell away to sleep , forgetting , for the time , that there were in the world such things as broken hearts , unwilling brides , and blind husbands old enough to be her father . 
The breakfast dishes were cleared away , all but the exquisite little service brought for Edith 's use when she was sick , and which now stood upon the side-board waiting until her long morning slumber should end . 
It was a favorable opportunity for telling Victor of his engagement , and summoning the latter to his presence , he bade him sit down , himself hesitating , stammering , and blushing like a woman , as he tried to speak of Edith . 
`` What would you say to Edith ? '' 
`` No , no , Victor , only twenty-one , '' and Richard 's voice trembled , for like Edith , he wished to be reassured and upheld even by his inferiors . 
He knew Victor disapproved , that he considered it a great sacrifice on Edith 's part , but for this he had no intention of giving her up . 
He asked this last with an appearance of interest , and Richard , ever ready to forgive and forget , told him all about it , who Edith was , and sundry other matters , to which Victor listened as attentively as if he had not heard the whole before . 
Like Edith , Richard was in the habit of talking to Victor more as if he were an equal than a servant , and in speaking of his engagement , he said , `` I had many misgivings as to the propriety of asking Edith to be my wife -- she is so young , so different from me , but my excuse is that I can not live without her . 
She has never loved another , and thus the chance is tenfold greater that she will yet be to me all that a younger , less dependent husband could desire . '' 
Suddenly Grace Atherton came into his mind , and Edith 's request that he should tell her . 
`` Yes , I 'll do it , '' he said , starting at once for Brier Hill ` Twill be a relief to let another know it , and then I want to see her squirm , when she hears all hope for herself is gone . '' 
Gradually the hope that she could ever be aught to Richard was dying out of Grace 's heart , and though , for an instant , she turned very white when , as if by accident , he told the news , it was more from surprise at Edith 's conduct than from any new feeling that she had lost him . 
She was in the garden bending over a bed of daffodils , so he did not see her face , but he knew from her voice how astonished she was , and rather wondered that she could question him so calmly as she did , asking if Edith were very happy , when the wedding was to be , and even wondering at Richard 's willingness to wait so long . 
Grace had no thought for Rover or for Kitty , and she wept on , sometimes for Arthur , sometimes for Edith , but oftener for the young girl who years ago refused the love offered her by Richard Harrington ; and then she wondered if it were possible that Edith had so soon ceased to care for Arthur . 
`` I can tell from her manner , '' she thought ; and with her mind thus brought to the call she would make at Collingwood , she dried her eyes , and speaking playfully to her dumb pets , returned to the house a sad , subdued woman , whose part in the drama of Richard Harrington was effectually played out . 
`` A pretty march you 've stolen upon me , '' she began , in a light , bantering tone -- `` you and Edith -- never asked my consent , or said so much as ` by your leave , ' but no matter , I congratulate you all the same . 
Where is she -- the bride-elect ? '' 
But say , where is Edith ? '' 
`` Here I am , '' and advancing from the parlor , where she had overheard the whole , Edith laughed a gay , musical laugh , as hollow and meaningless as Mrs. Atherton 's forced levity . 
`` Women are queer , '' he said again to himself , as he saw Edith on Richard 's knee , with her arm around his neck . 
I reckon I sha n't bother myself about her any more . 
If she loved Arthur as I thought she did , she could n't hug another one so soon . 
It is n't nature -- man nature , any way ; but Edith 's like a reed that bends . 
That character of Cooper 's suits her exactly . 
I 'll call her so to myself hereafter -- Reed that bends , '' and Victor hurried off , delighted with his new name . 
But if Victor was in a measure deceived by Edith 's demeanor , Grace Atherton was not . 
Because , he thought , they would like it better , Richard left the two ladies alone at last , and then turning suddenly upon Edith , Grace said , `` Tell me , Edith , is your heart in this , or have you done it in a fit of desperation ? '' 
`` I have had a long time to think of it , '' Edith answered proudly . 
Here the whirlpool underneath threatened to betray itself , but with a mighty effort Edith kept it down , and the current was unruffled as she continued , `` Arthur is nearer my age -- nearer my beau ideal , but I ca n't have him , and I 'm not going to play the part of a love-lorn damsel for a married man . 
It cost Edith more to say this than she supposed , and when she finished , the perspiration stood in drops beneath her hair and about her mouth . 
`` You are deceiving yourself , '' said Grace , who , without any selfish motive now , really pitied the hard , white-faced girl , so unlike the Edith of other days . 
`` Yes , it is -- all the heart I have , '' Edith answered curtly . 
Then , as some emotion stronger than the others swept over her , she laid her head upon the sofa arm and sobbed , `` You are all leagued against me , but I do n't care . 
I have promised to marry Richard , and Edith Hastings never lied . 
She will keep her word , '' and in the eyes which she now lifted up , Grace saw the tears glittering like diamonds . 
When the waltz was ended Edith , s mood had changed , and turning to Grace she nestled closely to her , and twining one of the silken curls around her fingers , said coaxingly , `` You think me a naughty child no doubt , but you do not understand me . 
You 'll tell them how much I owe him -- how much I love him , and , Grace , '' Edith 's voice was very low now , and sad , `` and when you write to Arthur do n't repeat the hateful things I said before , but tell him I 'm engaged ; that I 'm the Swedish baby ; that I never shall forget him quite ; and that I love Richard very much . '' 
Oh , how soft and plaintive was the expression of the dark eyes now , as Edith ceased to speak , and pressed the hand which warmly pressed hers back , for Grace 's womanly nature was aroused by this appeal , and she resolved to fulfill the trust reposed in her by Edith . 
Instead of hedging her way with obstacles she would help her , if possible ; would encourage her to love the helpless blind man , whose step was heard in the hall . 
He was coming to rejoin them , and instantly into Edith 's eyes there flashed a startled , shrinking look , such as the recreant slave may be supposed to wear when he hears his master 's step . 
She had felt it many a time , in an intensified degree , stealing over her at the coming of one whose snowy locks and gouty limbs had mingled many a year with the dust of Shannondale , and on her lips the words were trembling , `` This great sacrifice must not be , '' when Edith sprang up , and running out into the hall , met Richard as he came . 
Had Grace known of Victor 's new name for Edith she too would have called her `` Reed that bends , '' and as it was she thought her a most incomprehensible girl , whom no one could fathom , and not caring to tarry longer , soon took her leave , and the lovers were alone . 
Arrived at home , Grace opened her writing desk and commenced a letter , which started next day for Florida , carrying to Arthur St. Claire news which made his brain reel and grow giddy with pain , while his probed heart throbbed , and quivered , and bled with a fresh agony , as on his knees by Nina 's pillow he prayed , not that the cup of bitterness might pass from him -- he was willing now to quaff that to its very dregs , but that Edith might be happy with the husband she had chosen , and that he , the desolate , weary Arthur might not faint beneath this added burden . 
They thought him in love with Edith . 
Had he deserted her , and so in a fit of pique she had given herself to Richard ? 
This was probably the fact , and the gossips , headed by Mrs. Eliakim Rogers , speculated upon it , while the days glided by , until the five weeks were gone , and Edith , sitting in Grace 's boudoir , read , with eyes which had not wept since the day following her betrothal , the following extract from Arthur 's letter to his cousin : `` Richard and Edith ! 
Oh , Edith , Edith , Edith , my soul goes after her even now with a quenchless , mighty love , and my poor , bruised , blistered heart throbs as if some great giant hand were pressing its festered wounds , until I faint with anguish and cry out , ` my punishment is greater than I can bear . ' 
It was strange that Grace should have shown this letter to Edith , but the latter coaxed so hard that she reluctantly consented , repenting of it however when she saw the effect it had on Edith . 
Gradually as she read , there crept over her a look which Grace had never seen before upon the face of any human being -- a look as if the pent-up grief of years was concentrated in a single moment of anguish too acute to be described . 
There were livid spots upon her neck -- livid spots upon her face , while the dry eyes seemed fading out , so dull , and dim , and colorless they looked , as Edith read the wailing cry with which Arthur St. Claire bade her his adieu . 
For several minutes she sat perfectly motionless , save when the muscles of her mouth twitched convulsively , and then the hard , terrible look gave way -- the spots began to fade -- the color came back to her cheeks -- the eyes resumed their wonted brilliancy -- the fingers moved nervously , and Edith was herself . 
She had suffered all she could , and never again would her palsied heart know the same degree of pain which she experienced when reading Arthur 's letter . 
Arthur knew of her engagement -- blessing her for it , and saying he would not have it otherwise . 
The bitterness of death was past , and henceforth none save Grace and Victor suspected the worm which fed on Edith 's very life , so light , so merry , so joyous she appeared ; and Edith was happier than she had supposed it possible for her to be . 
The firm belief that she was doing right , was , of itself , a source of peace , and helped to sustain her fainting spirits , still there was about her a sensation of disquiet , a feeling that new scenes would do her good , and as the summer advanced , and the scorching July sun penetrated even to the cool shades of Collingwood , she coaxed Richard , Grace and Victor to go away . 
`` I think it is you who have changed , '' said Grace , fancying that she could already foresee the restless , uneasy , and not altogether agreeable woman , which Edith , as Richard 's wife , would assuredly become . 
Possibly Richard , too , thought of this , for a sigh escaped him as he heard Edith find fault with her beautiful home . 
Hour after hour would Edith sit with him upon the grass plat overlooking the deep ravine , and make him see with her eyes the gloriously magnificent view , than which there is surely none finer in all the world ; then , when the sun looked toward the west , and the mountain shadow began to creep across the valley , the river , and the hills beyond , shrouding them in an early twilight , she would lead him away to some quiet , sheltered spot , where unobserved , she could lavish upon him the little acts of love she knew he so much craved and which she would not give to him when curious eyes were looking on . 
It was a blissful paradise to Richard , and when in after years he looked back upon the past , he always recurred to those few weeks as the brightest spot in his whole life , blessing Edith for the happiness she gave him during that season of delicious quiet spent amid the wild scenery of the Catskill Mountains . 
Edith 's health and spirits were visibly improved , and her musical laugh often rang through the house in tones so merry and gleeful that the most solemn of the guests felt their boyhood coming back to them as they heard the ringing laugh , and a softer light suffused their cold , stern eyes as they paused in the midst of some learned discussion to watch the frolicsome , graceful belle of the Mountain House -- the bride elect of the blind man . 
The secret was out -- told by Victor , when closely questioned with regard to Edith 's relationship to Mr. Harrington . 
It created much surprise and a world of gossip , but shielded Edith from attentions which might otherwise have been annoying , for more than Richard thought her the one of all others whose presence could make the sunshine of their life . 
But Edith was betrothed . 
The dun leaves of October would crown her a wife , and so one pleasant morning some half a score young men , each as like to the other as young men at fashionable places of resort are apt to be , kicked their patent leather boots against the pillars of the rear piazza , broke a part of the tenth commandment shockingly , muttered to themselves speeches anything but complimentary to Richard , and then , at the appearance of a plaid silk travelling dress and brown straw flat , rushed forward en masse , each contending frantically for the honor of assisting Miss Hastings to enter the omnibus , where Richard was already seated , and which was to convey a party to the glens of the Kauterskill Falls . 
Edith had been there often . 
The weird wildness of the deep gorge suited her , and many an hour had she whiled away upon the broken rocks , watching the flecks of sunlight as they came struggling down through the overhanging trees , listening to the plaintive murmur of the stream , or gazing with delight upon the fringed , feathery falls which hung from the heights above like some long , white , gauzy ribbon . 
Richard , on the contrary , had never visited them before , and he only consented to do so now from a desire to gratify Edith , who acted as his escort in place of Victor . 
Holding fast to her hand he slowly descended the winding steps and circuitous paths , and then , with a sad feeling of helpless dependence , sat down upon the bank where Edith bade him sit , herself going off in girlish ecstasies as a thin spray fell upon her face and she saw above her a bright-hued rainbow , spanning the abyss . 
`` They are letting the water on , '' she cried , `` Look , Richard ! 
and she grasped his hand , while he said to her mournfully , `` Has Birdie forgotten that I am blind , and helpless , and old -- that she must lead me as a child ? '' 
There was a touching pathos in his voice which went straight to Edith 's heart , and forgetting the rainbow , she sat down beside him , still keeping his hand in hers , and asked what was the matter ? 
She knew he was unusually disturbed , for seldom had she seen upon his face a look of so great disquiet . 
Suddenly as she remembered his unwillingness to come there alone , it flashed upon her that it might arise from an aversion to seem so dependent upon a weak girl in the presence of curious strangers . 
With Victor he did not mind it , but with her it might be different , and she asked if it were not so . 
`` Edith , '' and he pressed the warm hand he held . 
Edith asked , half bitterly , for since their engagement was known at the hotel , she had more than once suspected the truth of what he said to her . 
The world did not approve , but she would not tell Richard that she knew it , and she asked again what he had heard . 
Edith , you do n't want me . 
For an instant Edith 's heart leaped up , and the sun spots dancing on the leaves were brighter than she had ever seen them , but the feeling passed away , and laying both her hands reverently in Richard 's , she said , `` I will be your wife . 
Edith did not at first think that Tallahassee was in Florida , not many miles from Sunnybank , and she bowed to the gentleman as to any stranger , while Grace , who had just arrived in another omnibus , explained to her that Mr. Russell was a slight acquaintance of Arthur 's ; that the latter being in town , and accidentally hearing that he was coming North , had intrusted him with some business matters , which would require his visiting Grassy Spring -- had given him a letter of introduction to herself , said letter containing a note for Edith -- that Mr. Russell had been to Shannondale , and ascertaining their whereabouts , had followed them , reaching the Mountain House in the morning stage . 
`` He can spend but one day here , '' she added , in conclusion , `` and wishing him to see as much as possible of our northern grandeur I brought him at once to the Falls . 
Here is your note , '' and tossing it into Edith 's lap she moved away . 
How Edith trembled as she held it in her hand , and with a quick , furtive glance at the sightless eyes beside her , she raised the dainty missive to her lips , feeling a reproachful pang as she reflected that she was breaking her vow to Richard . 
Why had Arthur written to her -- she asked herself this question many times , while Richard , too , asked , `` What news from Florida ? '' 
The second postscript showed a bolder , firmer hand , and Edith read , `` I , too , echo Nina 's words , ` Come , Miggie , come . ' 
Nina wants you , and I -- Heaven only knows how much I want you -- but , Edith , were you in verity Richard 's wife , you could not be more sacred to me than you are as his betrothed , and I promise solemnly that I will not seek to influence your decision . 
The sun shone just as brightly in the summer sky -- the Kauterskill fell as softly into the deep ravine -- the shouts of the tourists were just as gay -- the flecks of sunshine on the grass danced just as merrily , but Edith did not heed them . 
Her thoughts were riveted upon the lines she had read , and her heart throbbed with an unutterable desire to respond at once to that pleading call -- to take to herself wings and fly away -- away over mountain and valley , river and rill , to the fair land of flowers where Nina was , and where too was Arthur . 
Edith could not read the whole . 
`` They were engaged before she was crazy , '' returned Edith , while Richard sighed , `` poor boy , poor boy ! 
Then his thoughts came back to Edith 's question , `` May I go to Nina ? '' 
Edith offered no remonstrance , but her face was very white and her eyes strangely black as she said , `` Let us go home , then ; go to-morrow . 
he asked , but Edith declined and took her seat inside between Richard and Victor , the latter of whom had heard nothing of the letter ; neither did Edith tell him until the next day when , arrived at Collingwood , they were alone for a moment in the library -- then she explained to him that Nina was sick , possibly had sent for her . 
`` I thought things would work out after a time , though honestly I 'd rather that little girl should n't die if it could be brought round any other way , '' was Victor 's reply , which called a flush at once to Edith 's cheek . 
`` Victor Dupres , '' said she , `` never hint such a thing again . 
`` So he has , '' returned Edith , the same look stealing into her eyes which came there at the Falls . 
and Victor shrugged his shoulders at what seemed so contradictory as Edith 's talk and Edith 's conduct . 
As she had said , Edith meant to go , nay more , was determined to go , and when , on the third day after their return , Mr. Russell came for her final decision , she said to him , ere Richard had time to speak , `` I shall not go now ; it is too early for that , but if Nina continues worse , I will come to her the latter part of October . 
`` You , Richard ; '' and Edith clasped his arm , thus reassuring him at once . 
She had some thought , some consideration for him ; she did not intend to desert him wholly , and he playfully tapped her chin , laughing to think how the little lady had boldly taken matters into her own hands , telling what should be with as much sang froid as if she were master instead of himself . 
And Richard rather liked the independent spirit of Edith , particularly when he found that he was not wholly left out of her calculations . 
And so he arranged with Mr. Russell , that if Nina were not better as the autumn advanced , Edith should perhaps go down to see her . 
Arthur had made his marriage with Nina public as soon as he returned to Sunnybank , but as Mr. Russell 's home was in Tallahassee , and he himself a quiet , taciturn man , he had not heard of it , and in speaking of Nina to Edith , he called her Miss Bernard , as usual , and thus Richard still remained in ignorance , never suspecting that golden haired Nina was the same young girl he had married years before . 
Poor Richard , he was ignorant of many things , and never dreamed how light and gay was Edith 's heart at the prospect of going to Florida , even though she half expected that when she went it would be as his wife . 
It cost him a struggle so to do , but his iron will conquered every feeling , save those of his better judgment , and calling Edith to him one day two weeks after Mr. Russell 's departure , he said , `` Birdie , I 've come to the conclusion that a blind man like me will only be in your way , in case you go to Florida . 
`` She says you are the noblest , most unselfish man that ever lived , '' and Edith kissed his lips , chiding herself seriously for the spirit which whispered to her that she too would rather go without him . 
`` I wo n't stay very long , '' she said . 
Does that suit you , dearest ? '' 
She did not often call him thus , and when she did she was sure of accomplishing her purpose . 
The mere possibility was terrible to Edith , but she answered calmly , `` Then we 'll be married in October , just as first proposed ; '' and thus was the die cast , and a fresh link added to the chain of Edith 's destiny . 
Edith could read this to Richard , and she did , feeling a pang at the perfect faith with which he answered , `` Were it not for the tedious journey I believe I would go with you , but it 's too much of an undertaking . 
He did not tell her how lonely he should be without her -- how he should miss her merry laugh , which , strange to say , grew merrier each day ; but he let her know in various ways how infinitely precious she was to him , and more than once Edith felt constrained to give up the journey , but the influences from Florida drew her strangely in that direction , and resolving to pay Richard for his self-denial by an increase of love when she should return , she busied herself with her preparations until the 15th of October came , and her trunks stood ready in the hall . 
`` If I could only read your letters myself , it would not seem one-half so bad , '' Richard said , when at the last moment , he held Edith 's hand , `` but there 's a shadow over me this morning -- a dark presentiment that in suffering you to leave me I am losing you forever . '' 
Edith could not answer , she pitied him so much , and kissing his lips , she put from her neck his clinging arms , wiped his tears away , smoothed his ruffled hair , and then went out from his presence , leaving him there in his sorrow and blindness alone . 
Such was the answer made by Tom , the Bernard coachman to Edith 's repeated inquiries , `` Are we almost there . '' 
To Edith there was something familiar about that old building , with its handsome grounds , and she said aloud , `` I 've surely dreamed of Sunnybank . '' 
`` Berry likely , Miss , '' answered Tom , thinking the remark addressed to him , inasmuch as Edith 's head protruded from the window . 
Git ` long , you Bill , none o ' yer lazy carlicues , case do n't yer mind thar 's Mars ' r Arthur on the v ` randy , squinting to see if I 's fotched 'em , '' and removing his old straw hat , Tom swung it three times around his head , that being the signal he was to give if Edith were in the carriage . 
`` Edith ! '' 
It needed but this to break the spell which bound the two without , and dropping Edith 's hand , Arthur conducted her to the house , meeting in the hall with Nina , who , in spite of Mrs. Lamotte had jumped from her bed and skipping across the floor , flung herself into Edith 's arms , sobbing frantically , `` You did come , precious Miggie , to see sick Nina , did n't you , and you 'll stay forever and ever , wo n't you , my own sweet Miggie , and Arthur 's too ? 
The voice grew very faint , the white lips ceased their pressure of kisses upon Edith 's -- the golden head began to droop , and Arthur took the fainting girl in his arms , carrying her back to her bed , where he laid her gently down , himself carring for her until she began to revive . 
Meanwhile Edith was introduced to Mrs. Lamotte , a French woman , who once was Nina 's nurse , and who had come to Sunnybank a few weeks before . 
Any one at all interested in Nina was sure of a place in Edith 's affections , and she readily took Mrs. Lamotte 's proffered hand , but she was not prepared for the peculiarly curious gaze fastened upon her , as Mrs. Lamotte waved off Teeny , the black girl , and taking her traveling bag and shawl , said to her , `` This way , s ` il vous plait , Mademoiselle Marguerite . 
Pardonnez moi , '' she added quickly , as she met Edith 's questioning glance , `` Mademoiselle Miggie , as la petiteNina calls you . '' 
Once in Edith 's room , Mrs. Lamotte did not seem in haste to leave it , but continued talking in both English and French to Edith , who , more than once , as the tones fell upon her ear , turned quickly to see if it were not some one she had met before . 
`` Je m ` en irai , Mrs. Lamotte said at last , as she saw that her presence was annoying Edith ; and as the latter offered no remonstrance , she left the room , and Edith was alone with her confused thoughts . 
Where was she ? 
Edith kept asking herself these questions , but could find for them no satisfactory answer . 
Struggle as she might , she felt more like a child returned to its home than like a stranger in a strange land . 
Even the soft south wind , stealing through the open casement , and fanning her feverish cheek , had something familiar in its breath , as if it had stolen in upon her thus aforetime ; and when across the fields , she heard the negroes ' song as they came homeward from their toil , she laid her head upon the window sill , and wept for the something which swept over her , something so sweet , so sad , and yet so indescribable . 
Fearing lest the Frenchwoman should return , she made a hasty toilet , and then stole down to Nina , who , wholly exhausted with the violence of her emotions at meeting Edith , lay perfectly still upon her pillow , scarcely whiter than her own childish face , round which a ray of the setting sun was shining , encircling it with a halo of glorious beauty , and making her look like an angel of purity and love . 
She did not attempt to speak as Edith came in , but her eyes smiled a welcome , and her thin , wasted fingers pointed to where Edith was to sit upon the bed beside her . 
Arthur sat on the other side , holding one of Nina 's hands , and the other was given to Edith , who pressed it to her lips , while her tears dropped upon it like rain . 
The sight of them disturbed the sick girl , and shaking her wealth of curls which , since Edith saw them , had grown thick and long , she whispered , `` Do n't , Miggie ; tears are not for Nina ; she 's so glad , for she is almost home . 
Such were the disjointed sentences she kept whispering , while her eyes turned from Edith to Arthur and from Arthur back to Edith , resting longer there , and the expression of the face told of the unutterable joy within . 
Softly the twilight shadows stole into the room , and the servants glided in and out , casting furtive and wondering glances at Edith , who saw nothing save the clear blue eyes shining upon her , even through the gathering darkness , and telling her of the love which could not be expressed . 
As it grew darker Nina drew the two hands she clasped together -- Arthur 's and Edith 's -- laid them one above the other upon her bosom , pressed her own upon them , and when , at last , the candles were brought in and placed upon the table , Edith saw that the weary lids had closed and Nina was asleep . 
Edith would far rather have gone to her room alone , but Mrs. Lamotte seemed bent upon hovering near her , and as there was no alternative she followed her up the stairs and into the chamber , where she had lain aside her things . 
To her great relief her companion did not stay longer than necessary , and ere the entire household was still , Edith was dreaming of Collingwood and Richard . 
The next morning was bright , balmy , and beautiful , and at an early hour Edith arose and went down to Nina , who heard her step in the hall , and called to her to come . 
`` Darling Miggie , I dreamed you were gone , '' she said , `` and , I cried so hard that it woke Arthur up . 
He sleeps here every night , on that wide lounge , '' and she pointed toward a corner . 
Edith hardly knew , for she had not ventured to look fully at him , but she assumed that he had , and Nina continued : `` He 's a darling boy , and Nina loves him now . '' 
`` How is your head this morning , '' Edith asked , and Nina replied , `` It 's better . 
Arthur 's step was now heard in the hall , and this it was which so excited Edith that she failed to catch the word Marie , or to understand that it was Mrs. Lamotte who was worried about the removal of the bodies . 
He was changed , Edith saw as she looked at him now , and yet she liked his face better than before . 
He seemed to her like one over whom the fire had passed , purifying as it burned , and leaving a better metal than it had found . 
He was wholly self-possessed this morning , greeting her as if the scene in the Deering woods had never been enacted , and she could hardly believe that they were the same , the Arthur of one year ago , and the Arthur of to-day ; the quiet , elegant young man , who , with more than womanly tenderness , pushed Nina 's curls back under her lace cap , kissed her forehead , and then asked Edith if she did not look like a little nun with her hair so plain . 
Nina liked to be caressed , and she smiled upon him a smile so full of trusting faith and love , that Edith 's eyes filled with tears , and her rebellious heart went out toward Arthur as it had never done before , inasmuch as she felt that he was now far more worthy of her . 
Very rapidly the morning passed away , and it was after three o'clock P. M. , when , as Arthur sat with Edith upon the cool piazza , one of the negroes came running up , the perspiration starting from every pore , and himself almost frantic with excitement . 
Says Bill , says he -- he 's allus a reasonin ' , you know -- an ' , says he , ` that 's a mighty narrer coffin for two ; ' and wid that , Mr. Berry , the overseer , Miss , '' turning to Edith , `` He walked up , and findin ' de screws rattlin ' and loose , just turned back de top piece , an ' , as true as Csar 's standin ' here , there was n't no chile thar ; nothin ' ` tall but the Miss , an ' she did n't look no how ; never should have guessed them heap of bones had ever been Miss Petry . '' 
Edith started from her chair and was about to speak when a hand was laid upon her wrist , and turning , she saw Mrs. Lamotte standing behind her , and apparently more excited than herself . 
`` Come with me , '' she said , leading the unresisting Edith away , and leaving Arthur to follow Csar . 
When that was disturbed , she was watching from her window , and when the accident occurred which revealed the fraud of years , she hurried down and , with a cat-like tread , glided behind Edith 's chair where she stood while Csar told his story . 
It would be impossible to describe Edith 's feeling as she followed the strange woman up to her own room , sitting down just where Mrs. Lamotte bade her sit , and watching nervously the restless rolling of the eyes , which had no terror for her now , particularly after their owner said to her in French , `` Do you know me , Edith Hastings , Eloise Temple , Marguerite Bernard ? 
Like the rushing of some mighty , pent up flood the past swept over her then , almost bearing her senses down with the headlong tide ; link after link was joined , until the chain of evidence was complete , and with a scream of joy Edith went forward to the arms unfolded to receive her . 
`` Marie , Marie ! '' 
But the whole was told at last ; everything was clear to Edith as the daylight , and tottering to the bed , she asked to be alone , while she wept and prayed over this great joy , which had come so suddenly upon her . 
That was all she could say , as with her face in the pillows , she lay until the sun went down , and night fell a second time on Sunnybank . 
`` No one shall tell her but myself , '' she thought as she descended to Nina 's room , where Arthur was telling of the discovery they had made -- a discovery for which he could not account , and about which the negroes , congregated together in knots , were talking , each offering his or her own theory with regard to the matter , and never once thinking to question Mrs. Lamotte , who , they knew , had been with Mrs. Bernard when she died . 
`` Yes , I know , '' Edith answered , and laying her hand on Arthur 's she said , `` Please , Mr. St Claire , go away awhile . 
Thus importuned , Arthur left the room , and Edith was alone with Nina . 
Oh , how Edith yearned to take that sweet young creature to her bosom , and concentrate in one wild , passionate hug the love of so many wasted years ; but Nina must not be unduly startled if she would make her comprehend what she had to tell , and conquering her own agitation with a wondrous effort she sat down upon the bed , and said , `` How is my darling ? 
`` Nina , '' said Edith , `` can you understand me if I tell you a story about a little girl who resembled your sister Miggie ? '' 
Nina liked stories , and though she would rather have talked of the real Miggie , she expressed a willingness to listen , and by the dim candle light Edith saw that the blue eyes , fixed so intently upon her , still retained the comparatively rational expression she had observed when she first came in . 
Moving a little nearer to her , she began , `` A great many years ago , nearly eighteen , we will say , a beautiful little girl , eight years old , I guess , with curls like yours , waited one night in just such a house as this , for her father , who had been long in Europe , and who was to bring her a new mother , and a dear baby sister , two years old or thereabouts . '' 
Nina asked suddenly , her mind seeming to have followed Edith 's , and grasped the meaning of what she heard . 
`` I dare say you did , '' Edith answered ; `` at all events this little girl was very beautiful as she waited in the twilight for the travellers . '' 
`` Call the little girl Nina , please , I 'll get at it better then , '' was the next interruption ; and with a smile , Edith said , `` Nina , then , waited till they came -- her father , her new mother Petrea , and -- '' `` Beautiful Petrea , '' Nina exclaimed , `` la belle Petrea , black hair like yours , Miggie , and voice like the soft notes of the piano . 
Nina seemed to have taken the story away from Edith , who , when she ceased speaking , again went on : `` Eloise Marguerite was the baby sister 's name ; Eloise , for a proud aunt , who , after they came home , would not suffer them to call her so , and she was known as Marguerite , which Nina shortened into Miggie , Nina darling , '' and Edith spoke sadly now . 
`` Petrea was very unhappy here , '' Edith answered . 
`` Yes , '' returned Edith , `` he raised a costly monument to their memory ; but do n't you wish to know what became of Miggie ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , oh , yes , go on , '' was Nina 's answer ; and Edith continued , `` Marie was too poor to take care of Miggie , and she put her in the Asylum . '' 
But Edith removed it gently , and with a few loving words quieted the little lady , who said again , `` Go on . '' 
`` I know them , too , '' Nina said , beginning to hum one , while Edith continued , `` After a time Marie went back to France . 
Nina asked , and Edith answered , `` Yes , 't was in a locket , and it puzzled Miggie till she spoke the name , but thought it was Arthur who told her . '' 
It was `` a streak of sense , '' and when Edith again resumed her story the crazy girl was very calm and quiet . 
`` After a time this Miggie went to live with a blind man -- with Richard , '' and Edith 's hands closed tightly around the snowy fingers , which crept so quickly toward her . 
`` Yes , yes , I remember everything , '' and Nina 's chest began to heave , her chin to quiver , her white lips , too , but still she shed no tear , and the dry , blue eyes seemed piercing Edith 's very soul as the latter continued , rapidly , `` Nina came home to Florida ; she sent for Miggie , and Miggie came , finding Marie who told her all -- told her where the baby was -- and the real Miggie fell on her face , thanking the good Father for giving her the sweetest , dearest sister a mortal ever had . 
Edith 's voice began to falter , and when she had finished she sat gazing at the fairy form , which trembled and writhed a moment as if in fearful convulsions , then the struggling ceased , the features became composed , and raising herself in bed Nina crept closer and closer to Edith , her lips quivering as if she fain would speak but had not the power . 
Slowly the little hands were raised and met together around Edith 's neck ; nearer and nearer the white face came to the dark glowing one , until breath met breath , lip met lip , golden tresses mixed with raven braids , and with a cry which made the very rafters ring and went echoing far out into the darkness , Nina said , `` You are -- that -- that -- ba-baby -- the one we thought was dead . 
She ca n't think what the right word is -- the word that means Miggie , '' and poor exhausted Nina fell back upon the pillow , while Edith , bending over her , whispered in her ear , `` Miggie means sister , darling ; your sister ; do you hear ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , '' and again the wild , glad cry went ringing through the house , as Nina threw herself a second time on Edith 's bosom . 
The few particulars which Edith had omitted in her story to Nina may , perhaps , be better told now than at any other time . 
`` Do n't undeceive her , '' Petrea said to Marie , who did her mistress 's bidding ; and as Mrs. Jamieson was sick when Mr. Bernard came , she did not see him , and was thus effectually kept in ignorance that Edith 's real name was Marguerite Bernard , else she had divulged it to Richard , when in after years he came inquiring for her parentage . 
She was with her mistress in Germany when Richard saved the child from drowning . 
She never forgot him , and when from her sister she learned that Edith was with him , she felt that interference on her part was unnecessary . 
So even after recovering from her illness she deferred returning to America , marrying , at last , and living in an humble way in Paris , where she more than once saw Mr. Bernard in the streets , when he was there with Nina . 
How this information was obtained she did not know , but believing it to be authentic , she supposed strangers , of course , were now the tenants of Sunnybank ; and anticipated much pleasure in restoring to the so-called Edith Hastings her rightful heritage . 
Great then was her surprise to find Nina living , and when she heard that Edith was soon expected in Florida , she determined to await her coming . 
This was the story she told to Edith and also to the negroes , many of whom remembered their unfortunate young mistress and her beautiful baby Miggie still ; but for the missing body they might have doubted Marie 's word , but that was proof conclusive , and their loud hurrahs for Miss Miggie Bernard were repeated until Nina came back to consciousness , smiling as she heard the cry and remembered what it meant . 
`` Go to them -- let them see you , darling , '' she said ; and , with Arthur as her escort , Edith went out into the midst of the sable group , who crowded around her , with blessings , prayers , tears and howlings indescribable , while many a hard , black hand grasped hers , as negro after negro called her `` mistress , '' adding some word of praise , which showed how proud they were of this beautiful , queenly scion of the Bernard stock , which they had feared would perish with Nina . 
Now they would be kept together -- they would not be scattered to the four winds , and one old negro fell on his knees , kissing Edith 's dress , and crying , `` Cato bresses you for lettin ' his bones rot on de ole plantation . '' 
Edith was perplexed , for to her the discovery had only brought sweet images of sistership with Nina . 
Arthur did not reply at once , for he knew he held that which would effectually take away all right from Edith . 
After Nina he was Mr. Bernard 's chosen heir , but not for an instant did he waver in the course he should pursue , and when the interview was ended with the negroes , and Edith was again with Nina , he excused himself for a moment , but soon returned , bearing in his hand Mr. Bernard 's will , which he bade Edith read . 
And she did read it , feeling intuitively as if her father from the grave were speaking to her , the injured Petrea 's child , and virtually casting her aside . 
The tears gathered slowly in her eyes , dropping one by one upon the paper , which without a word she handed back to Arthur . 
Nina 'll give you hers , she will , '' and the little maiden made a movement toward Edith , while Arthur continued , `` You ca n't , darling . 
It 's mine after you ; '' and this he said , not to inflict fresh pain on Edith , but to try Nina , and hear what she would say . 
He will , Miggie , '' and she nodded toward Edith , while Arthur rejoined , `` Would it please my child-wife very much to have me scratch it out ? '' 
He had never called her thus before Edith until now , and he stole a glance at her to witness the effect . 
For an instant she was white as marble , then the hot blood seemed bursting from the small round spot where it had settled in her cheeks , and involuntarily she extended her hand toward him in token of her approval . 
She could not have reassured him better than by this simple act , and still retaining her hand , he went on , `` When I came to Florida , after Mr. Bernard 's death , my first step was to have the will proved , and consequently this sheet is now of very little consequence ; but as you both will , undoubtedly , breathe more freely if every vestige of this writing is removed , I will destroy it at once , and , as soon as possible , take the legal steps for reinstating Edith . '' 
Then releasing Edith 's hand , Arthur took the candle from the stand , and said to Nina , `` Have you strength to hold it ? '' 
The will lay crisped and blackened upon the carpet ; Edith , in her own estimation was reinstated in her rights , and then , as if demanding something for the sacrifice , Arthur turned playfully to her , and winding his arm around her said , `` Kiss me once as a sister , for such you are , and once for giving you back your inheritance . '' 
How they burned on Edith 's lips , making her so happy -- and how they blistered on Arthur 's heart , making him doubt the propriety of having given or received them . 
He had buffeted the billow with a mightier struggle than Edith had ever known . 
Around his head a blacker , fiercer storm had blown than any she had ever felt , and from out that tumultuous sea of despair he had come a firmer , a better man , with strength to bear the burden imposed upon him . 
Were it not so he would never have sent for Edith Hastings -- never have perilled his soul by putting himself a second time under her daily influence . 
But he felt that there was that within him which would make him choose the right , make him cling to Nina , and so he wrote to Edith , meeting her when she came as friend meets friend , and continually thanking Heaven which enabled him to hide from every one the festered wound , which at the sound of her familiar voice smarted and burned , and throbbed until his soul was sick and faint with pain . 
The discovery of Edith 's parentage filled him with joy -- joy for Nina , and joy because an opportunity was thus afforded him of doing an act unselfish to the last degree , for never for a single moment did the thought force itself upon him that possibly Edith might yet be his , and so the property come back to him again . 
He had given her up , surrendered her entirely , and Richard 's interests were as safe with him as his gold and silver could have been . 
Much he wished he knew exactly the nature of her feelings toward her betrothed , but he would not so much as question Victor , who , while noticing his calmness and self-possession , marvelled greatly , wondering the while if it were possible that Arthur 's love were really all bestowed on Nina . 
It would seem so , from the constancy with which he hung over her pillow , doing for her the thousand tender offices , which none but a devoted husband could do , never complaining , never tiring even when she taxed his good nature to its utmost limit , growing sometimes so unreasonable and peevish that even Edith wondered at his forbearance . 
It was a whim of Edith 's not to write to Richard of her newly-found relationship . 
She would rather tell it to him herself , she said , and in her first letter , she merely mentioned the incidents of her journey , saying she reached Sunnybank in safety , that Nina was no better , that Mr. St. Claire was very kind , and Victor very homesick , while she should enjoy herself quite well , were it not that she knew he was so lonely without her . 
It was an odd-looking missive which he sent back , and Edith 's heart ached to its very core as she saw the uneven handwriting , which went up and down , the lines running into and over each other , now diagonally , now at right angles , and again darting off in an opposite direction as he held his pencil a moment in his fingers and then began again . 
Still she managed to decipher it , and did not lose a single word of the message intended for Nina . 
`` Tell little Snowdrop the blind man sends her his blessing and his love , thinking of her often as he sits here alone these gloomy autumn nights , no Edith , no Nina , nothing but lonesome darkness . 
This letter Edith took to Nina one day , when Arthur and Victor had gone to Tallahassee , and Mrs. Lamotte was too busy with her own matters to interrupt them . 
Nina had not heard of the engagement , for Arthur could not tell her , and Edith shrank from the task as from something disagreeable . 
Still she had a strong desire for Nina to know how irrevocably she was bound to another , hoping thus to prevent the unpleasant allusions frequently made to herself and Arthur . 
The excitement of finding a sister in Miggie , had in a measure overturned Nina 's reason again , and for many days after the disclosure she was more than usually wild , talking at random of the most absurd things , but never for a moment losing sight of the fact that Edith was her sister . 
This seemed to be the one single clear point from which her confused ideas radiated , and the love she bore her sister was strong enough to clear away the tangled web of thought and bring her at last to a calmer , more natural state of mind . 
There were hours in which no one would suspect her of insanity , save that as she talked childish , and even meaningless expressions were mingled with what she said , showing that the woof of her intellect was defective still , and in such a condition as this Edith found her that day when , with Richard 's letter in her hand , she seated herself upon the foot of the bed and said , `` I heard from Richard last night . 
`` Never mind that , '' returned Edith , `` but listen to the message he sent his little Snowdrop , '' and she read what Richard had written to Nina . 
`` I wish I could be one of those bright angels , '' Nina said , mournfully , when Edith finished reading ; `` but , Miggie , Nina 's so bad . 
`` Yes , I know , '' Edith replied ; `` but I wish to talk of something besides Arthur , now . 
`` Yes , it only buzzed like a honey-bee , right in here , '' and Nina touched the top of her head , while Edith continued . 
`` Possibly Grace did not so write to him , '' returned Edith ; `` but let me tell you of Edith Hastings as she used to be when a child ; '' and with the blue eyes of Nina fixed upon her , Edith narrated that portion of her history already know to the reader , dwelling long upon Richard 's goodness , and thus seeking to prepare her sister for the last , the most important part of all . 
You ca n't begin to know , '' and the impulsive girl fell forward on Edith 's bosom sobbing impetuously , `` I love you so much , so much , that it makes it harder to die ; but I must , and when the little snow-birds come back to the rose bushes beneath the windows of Grassy Spring a great ways off , the hands that used to feed them with crumbs will be laid away where they 'll never tear Arthur boy 's hair any more . 
Edith attempted to comfort her by saying , `` He has surely forgiven you , darling ; and Nina , please do n't talk so much of dying . 
Then he whispered , ` Edith , Edith , ' and the sound was so like a wail that I felt my blood growing cold . 
Nina had come nearer the truth than she supposed , and Edith involuntarily echoed her oft-repeated words , `` Poor Arthur , '' for she knew now what had preceded that cry of more than mortal anguish which Arthur sent to Grace after hearing first of the engagement . 
`` Nina , '' and Edith 's voice was low and earnest in its tone , `` I thought about it four whole weeks and at last I went to Richard and said , ` I will be your wife . ' 
I shall be his bride on New Year 's night , '' Edith spoke rapidly , as if anxious to have the task completed , and when at last it was done , she felt that her strength was leaving her , so great had been the effort with which she told her story to Nina . 
Gradually as she talked Nina had crept away from her , and sitting upright in bed , stared at her fixedly , her face for once putting on the mature dignity of her years , and seeming older than Edith 's . 
It was in vain that Edith persisted in saying she did , or at least should love Richard as he deserved . 
Nina was not to be convinced , and at last , in self-defence , Edith broke out bitterly against Arthur as the immediate cause of her sufferings . 
Had he not been faithless to his marriage vow , and might she not keep hers quite as well as he kept his . 
Nina was very white , and the swollen veins stood out full upon her forehead as she lay panting on her pillow , but the eyes never for an instant left Edith 's , as she replied , `` Arthur was in fault , Miggie , greatly in fault , but there was much to excuse his error . 
`` Yes , I see , '' cried Edith , her tears dropping fast into her lap . 
`` I ca n't , '' and Edith shook her head . 
And this was all Nina could wring from her , although she labored for many hours , sometimes rationally , sometimes otherwise , but always with an earnest simplicity which showed how pure were her motives , and how great her love for Edith . 
It was rather late in the evening when Arthur returned , looking more than usually pale and weary , and still there was about him an air of playful pleasantry , such as there used to be , when Edith first knew him . 
During the long ride to Tallahassee , Victor , either from accident or design , touched upon the expected marriage of his master , and although Arthur would not ask a single question , he was a deeply-interested auditor , and listened intently , while Victor told him much which had transpired between himself and Edith , saying that unless some influence stronger than any he or Grace could exert were thrown around her , she would keep her vow to Richard , even though she died in keeping it . 
`` Girls like Edith Hastings do not die easily , '' was Arthur 's only comment , and Victor half wished he had kept his own counsel and never attempted to meddle in a love affair . 
Thought , intense and almost bewildering , was busy at work , and ere the day was done , he had resolved that he would help Edith if all else forsook her . 
He would not throw one single obstacle across her pathway . 
He would make the sacrifice easier for her , even if to do it , he suffered her to think that his own love had waned . 
Nothing could more effectually cure her , and believing that she might be happy with Richard if she did not love another , he determined to measure every word and act so as to impress her with the conviction that though she was dear to him as a sister and friend , he had struggled with his affection for her and overcome it . 
It would be a living death to do this , he knew -- to act so contrary to what he felt , but it was meet that he should suffer , and when at last he was left alone -- when both were lost to him forever -- Edith and his child-wife Nina , he would go away across the sea , and lose , if possible , in foreign lands , all remembrance of the past . 
And this it was that made him seem so cheerful when he came in that night , calling Edith `` little sister , '' winding his arm around Nina , kissing her white face , asking if she had missed him any , if she were glad to have him back , and how she and Miggie had busied themselves during the day . 
There was no tremor in Arthur 's voice , and Nina little guessed how much it cost him thus to speak , with Edith sitting near . 
Looking up into his face with a startled , perplexed expression , she said , `` I did not expect this , Arthur boy . 
`` Nina , please do n't , '' and Edith spoke entreatingly , but Nina answered pettishly , `` I ai n't going to please , for everything has got upside down . 
`` I think I 'd try to live then , '' Arthur said , laughingly , while Edith hailed the appearance of Marie as something which would put a restraint upon Nina . 
It had been arranged that Edith should take Arthur 's place in the sick room that night , but Nina suddenly changed her mind , insisting that Arthur should sleep there as usual . 
So Edith retired to her own room , and after a time Arthur was alone with Nina . 
In much alarm Edith came , trembling when she saw the fearful change which had passed over Nina , whose blue eyes followed her movements intently , turning often from her to Arthur as if they fain would utter what was in her mind . 
Many days and nights were yet appointed her , and Arthur and Edith watched her with the tenderest care ; only these two , for so Nina would have it . 
Holding their hands in hers she would gaze from one to the other with a wistful , pleading look , which , far better than words , told what she would say , were it permitted her to speak , but in the deep brown eyes of Arthur , she read always the same answer , while Edith 's would often fill with tears as she glanced timidly at the apparently cold , silent man , who , she verily believed , had ceased to love her . 
And as she watched them day after day , the purpose grew strong within her that if it were possible the marriage of Edith and Richard should be prevented , and as soon as she was able to talk she broached the subject to them both . 
`` Stay , Miggie , '' she said to Edith , who was stealing from the room . 
`` Nina , '' said the latter , pitying Edith 's agitation , `` You will spare us both much pain if you never allude again to what under other circumstances might have been . '' 
`` Because it would be wrong , '' was Arthur 's answer , and then Nina turned to Edith , `` Why wo n't you , Miggie ? '' 
Arthur asked , and the troubled eyes of blue turned anxiously to Edith . 
Edith shook her head , not very decidedly , it is true , still it was a negative shake , and Nina said , `` Arthur boy , will you ? '' 
Such , Richard , is the darkness , which lies like a pall around our beautiful sister Miggie , and it will deepen and deepen unless you do what Nina asks you to do , and what Miggie never will , because she promised that she would n't -- '' Then followed the entire story of the marriage performed by Richard , of the grief which followed , of Arthur 's gradually growing love of Edith , of the scene of the Deering woods , of the incidents connected with Edith 's sickness , her anguish at parting with Arthur , her love for him still , her struggles to do right , and her determination to keep her engagement even though she died in doing it . 
When breakfast was announced she insisted that both he and Edith should leave her , and , the moment they were gone , she asked for Victor , who came at once , half guessing why he was sent for . 
`` Under my pillow , '' she whispered , as he bent over her , and in an instant the letter , of whose existence neither Arthur nor Edith suspected , was safe in Victor 's pocket . 
She did not speak of him again , and her last days were thus pleasanter to Edith , who , from the sweet companionship held with her gentle sister , learned in part what Nina Bernard was , ere the darkness of which she had written to Richard crept into her brain . 
Fair and beautiful as the white pond lily , she faded rapidly , until Arthur carried her no longer to the window , holding her in his arms while she looked out upon the yard and garden where she used to play -- but she lay all day upon her bed holding Edith 's hands , and talking to her of that past still so dim and vague to the latter . 
Marie , too , often joined them , repeating to Edith many incidents of interest connected with both her parents , but speaking most of the queenly Petrea , whom Edith so strongly resembled . 
Nina , too , remembered her well , and Edith was never weary of hearing her tell of the `` beautiful new mamma , '' who kissed her so tenderly that night when she first came home , calling her la petite enfant , and placing in her arms a darling little sister , with eyes just like the stars ! 
Very precious to Edith was the memory of those days , when she watched the dying Nina , who , as death drew near , clung closer and closer to her sister , refusing to let her go . 
and Edith 's voice was choked with tears as she told the listening Nina of one whose arm would surely hold her up , so that the waters should not overflow . 
`` No , no , oh , no , '' and Edith sobbed impetuously as she essayed to comfort the bewildered girl , whose mind grasped but faintly the realities of eternity . 
`` And you 'll stand on the bank till I am clear across , '' she said , when Edith had ceased speaking , `` You and Arthur stand where I can see you if I should look back . 
Here Nina paused , too much exhausted to talk longer , and when about dark Arthur came in , he found her asleep with Edith at her side , while upon her face and about her nose there was a sharp , pinched look he had never seen before . 
Intuitively , however , he knew that look was the harbinger of death , and when Edith told him what Nina had said , he felt that ere the morning came his broken lily would be gone . 
Slowly the evening wore on , and one by one the family retired , leaving Arthur and Edith alone with the pale sleeper whose slumbers ended not until near the midnight hour ; silently , sadly , Arthur and Edith watched her , she on one side , he upon the other , neither speaking for the sorrow which lay so heavy at their hearts . 
She was very beautiful as she lay there so motionless , and Arthur felt his heart clinging more and more to his fair , childish wife , while his conscience smote him cruelly for any wrong he might have done to her . 
Edith could only sob wildly , as she grasped the clammy hand stretched toward her , but Arthur , more composed , whispered to the dying girl , `` Yea , though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , I will fear no evil , for thou , Lord , art with me ; thy staff and thy rod , they comfort me . '' 
All the day he sat by her , and both Edith and Victor felt that it was not the mere semblance of grief he wore , while others of the household , who knew nothing of his past in connection with Edith , said to each other , `` It is strange he should love her so well when she was so much care to him . '' 
They did not know it was this very care for her ; this bearing with her which made her so dear to him , and as the mother longs for and wishes back the unfortunate but beloved child which made her life so wearisome so Arthur mourned and wept for Nina , thanking God one moment that her poor , pain-worn head was at rest , and again murmuring to himself , `` I would that I had her back again . '' 
He scarcely spoke to Edith , although he knew whenever her footsteps crossed the threshold of the darkened room ; knew when she bent over Nina ; heard the kisses she pressed on the cold lips ; and even watched until it was dry the tear she once left on Nina 's cheek , but he held no communication with her , and she was left to battle with her grief alone . 
`` Nina must be buried in white , '' he said ; `` she looked the best in that ; and , Edith , I would have her curls cut off , all but those that shade her face . 
Will you do so once more if I will hold her up ? '' 
Edith would rather the task had devolved upon some one else , but she offered no objection , though her tears fell like rain when she brought the curling-stick and brush and began to separate the tangled locks , while Arthur encircled the rigid form with his arm , as carefully as if she still were living , watching her with apparent interest as she twined about her fingers the golden hair . 
But when , at last , she held the scissors which were to sever those bright tresses , his fortitude all gave way , for he remembered another time when he had held poor Nina , not as he held her now , but with a stronger , firmer grasp , while , by rougher hands than Edith 's , those locks were shorn away . 
`` You may cut them now , '' he said at last , holding his breath as if the sharp steel were cutting into his heart 's core , as , one by one , the yellowish curls were severed , and dropped , some into Edith 's lap , while others , lodging upon his fingers , curled about them with a seemingly human touch , making him moan bitterly , as he pressed them to his lips , and then shook them gently off . 
Nina 's hair , like her sister 's , had been her crowning glory -- so thick , so wavy , so luxuriant it was ; and when the task was done , and the tresses divided , five heavy curls were Arthur 's , and five more were Edith 's . 
Edith asked , and for a moment Arthur did not answer . 
In a rosewood box , into which he had not looked for years , there was a mass of longer , paler , more uneven curls than these , but Arthur would not distress Edith by telling her about them , and he replied , at last , `` I will put them away , myself . '' 
Then taking them from her and going to his own private chamber , he opened the box and dropped them in , weeping when he saw how strongly they contrasted with the other faded crazy curls , as he called them . 
Would it be Arthur or would it be the queenly Edith , whose regal beauty had captivated all their hearts ? 
Assembled in the kitchen they discussed this question , giving to neither the preference , for though they had tried Arthur and found him a kind and humane master , they felt that after Nina , Edith had the right . 
Then , as other than blacks will do , they speculated upon the future , wondering why both Arthur and Edith could not rule jointly over them ; they would like that vastly , and had nearly decided that it would be , when Victor , who was with them , tore down their castle by telling them that Edith was already engaged to some one else . 
Several times Arthur started as if he would go to the bed standing empty in the corner , while Edith , too , fancied that she heard the name `` Miggie , '' spoken as only Nina could speak it . 
Then came a feeling of desolation as the thought was forced upon them , `` She is gone ; '' and as the days went on till three suns had risen on her grave , the loneliness increased until Edith could bear it no longer , and to Victor she said , `` We will go back to Richard , who is waiting so anxiously for us . '' 
Everything which Arthur could do he did to reinstate Edith in her rights . 
Not one dollar of the Bernard estate had he ever spent for himself , and very little for Nina , preferring to care for her out of his own resources , and thus the property had increased so rapidly that Edith was richer than her wildest hopes . 
But not one feather did this weigh with her , and on the day when matters were arranged , she refused to do or say anything about it , persisting so obstinately in her refusal , that the servants whispered slily to each other , `` Thar 's a heap of old marster 's grit thar . '' 
For a time Arthur coaxed and reasoned with her ; then finding that this did not avail , he changed the mode of treatment , and , placing a chair by his own , said to her commandingly , `` Edith , sit here ! '' 
and she sat there , for there was that in Arthur 's sternness which always enforced obedience . 
`` It can not be more unpleasant for you than for me , but it is necessary , '' he said to her , in a low tone , as she sank into her seat , and ashamed of her willfulness , Edith whispered back , `` I am sorry I behaved so like a child . 
Still it grated harshly , this being compelled to listen while the lawyer , summoned by Arthur , talked to her of lands and mortgages , of bank stock , and , lastly , of the negroes . 
Would she have them sold , or what ? 
Then Edith roused from her apathy . 
Nina had entrusted them to her , and she would care for them . 
They should not be sold , and so she said ; they should still live at Sunnybank , having free papers made out in case of accident to herself , or , if they preferred , they should go with her at once to Collingwood , and Sunnybank to be sold . 
exclaimed Victor , who had stationed himself behind Edith . 
Arthur smiled at the Frenchman 's evident distress , while Edith made a gesture that Victor should be still , and then continued , `` It may be better to leave them here for a time at least , and Mr. Harrington shall decide upon their future home . '' 
She said this naturally , and as a matter of course , but her heart leaped to her throat when she saw the pallor which for an instant overspread Arthur 's face at her allusion to one who would soon have the right to rule her and hers . 
the lawyer asked , and ere Edith could reply , Arthur answered for her , `` He is to be her husband . '' 
The lawyer bowed and went on with his writing , all unconscious of the wounds his question had tore open , leaving them to bleed afresh as both Arthur and Edith assumed a mask of studied indifference , never looking at or addressing each other again while that painful interview lasted . 
This was his own proposition , and Edith acceded to it joyfully . 
There were no sweet home associations , connected in her mind with Sunnybank , it is true , for she was too young when she left it to retain more than a dim , shadowy remembrance of a few scenes and places ; but it had been Nina 's home ; there she was born , there she had lived , there she had died , and Edith felt that it would not be one half so dreary looked back upon , if Arthur would stay there always . 
`` Why ca n't you ? '' 
she asked of him when in the evening she sat with him in the rather gloomy parlor . 
He ceased speaking , and there was a silence in the room which Edith could not break . 
Arthur had told her frankly of his intended future , but she could not speak of hers -- could not tell him that Collingwood 's doors were ever open to him -- that she would be his sister in very deed -- that Richard would welcome him as a brother for her sake , and that the time might come when they could be happy thus . 
He could read Edith Hastings aright -- could fathom her utmost thoughts , and he knew how she shrank from the future dreading a return to Collingwood , and what awaited her there . 
He knew , too , that but a few words from himself were needed to keep her at Sunnybank with him forever , Others might be powerless to influence her decision , but he was not ; he could change her whole future life by whispering in her ear , `` Stay with me , Edith ; do n't go back , '' but the Arthur of to-day was stronger than the Arthur of one year ago , and though the temptation was a terrible one , he met it bravely , and would not deal thus treacherously with Richard , who had so generously trusted her with him . 
Edith must keep her vow , and when at last he spoke , it was to say something of the journey , as if that had all the time been uppermost in his mind . 
`` He does not love me any more , and I do n't care , '' was Edith 's mental comment , as she soon after left him and hurried to her room , where she wept herself to sleep , never suspecting how long and dreary was that night to the young man whose eyelids never for a moment closed , and who , as the day was breaking , stole out to Nina 's grave , finding there a peace which kept his soul from fainting . 
The breakfast was scarcely touched , and the moment it was over Edith hurried to her chamber , for it was nearly time to go . 
The trunks were brought down -- Edith 's and Marie 's -- for the latter was to live henceforth with her young mistress ; the servants had crowded to the door , bidding their mistress good bye , and then it was Arthur 's turn . 
Scarcely was he gone , when Tom , the driver , announced that something was the matter with the harness , and by this delay , Edith gained a few moments , which she resolved to spend with Nina . 
He heard her step , and turning toward her , said , half bitterly , `` Edith , why will you tempt me so ? '' 
`` Oh , Arthur , do n't , '' and with a piteous cry Edith sank at his feet , and laying her face on Nina 's grave , sobbed out , `` I did not know that you were here , but I am so glad that you are , for I can not go without your blessing . 
Arthur had been tempted before -- sorely , terribly tempted -- but never like this , and recoiling a pace or two , he stood with the dead Nina between himself and the weeping Edith , while the wild thought swept over him , `` Is it right that I should send her away ? '' 
They are calling to you , '' he added , as he heard Victor 's voice in the distance , and struggling to her feet , Edith started to go , but forgetting all sense of propriety in that dreadful parting , she turned to him again and said , `` I am going , Arthur , but I must ask one question . 
Leaning for support against Petrea 's monument , whence Miggie 's name had been effaced , he gasped : `` God help me , Edith . 
Oh Edith , alas , alas ! 
I dare not prove thus treacherous to Richard , who trusted you with me , and , Edith , you can be happy with him , and you will . 
And God will give you strength to do this if you ask it of him aright I shall not forget you , Edith . 
Without a word of reply Edith moved away , nor cast a backward glance at the faint , sick man , who leaned his p593-335 burning forehead against the gleaming marble ; while drop after drop of perspiration fell upon the ground , but brought him no relief . 
He heard the carriage wheels as they rolled from the door , and the sound seemed grinding his life to atoms , for by that token he knew that Edith was gone -- that to him there was nothing left save the little mound at his feet and the memory of his broken lily who slept beneath it . 
How he wanted her now -- wanted his childish Nina -- his fair girl-wife , to comfort him . 
Oh , what a change it was from sunny Florida to bleak New England , and how both Edith and Victor shivered when , arrived at the last stage of their journey , they looked out upon the snow-clad hills and leafless trees which stood out so bare and brown against the winter sky . 
the brakeman shouted , and Edith drew her furs around her , for in a few moments more their own station would be reached . 
`` Yes , very , very cold , '' and Edith felt the meaning of the word in more senses than one . 
Why was n't she glad to be home again ? 
Why did her thoughts cling so to distant Sunnybank , or her heart die within her as waymark after waymark told her Collingwood was near ? 
Alas ! 
she was not a loving , eager bride elect , returning to the arms of her beloved , but a shrinking , hopeless , desolate woman , going back to meet the destiny she dared not avoid . 
All this Edith saw as in the village omnibus she was driven toward home . 
During Edith 's absence Richard had staid mostly in the library , and there he was sitting now , with his hands folded together in that peculiarly helpless way which characterized all his motions . 
He heard the sound of wheels , the banging of trunks , and then his ear caught a footstep it knew full well , a slow , shuffling tread , but Edith 's still , and out into the silent hall he groped his way , watching there until she came . 
How he hugged her to his bosom -- never heeding that she gave him back but one answering kiss , a cold , a frozen thing , which would not thaw even after it touched his lips , so full of life and warmth . 
He looked older , too , than he used to do , and Edith thought of what he once had said about her seeing the work of decay go on in him while she yet was young and vigorous . 
Still her voice was natural as she answered his many questions and greeted Mrs. Matson who came in to see her as soon as she heard of her arrival . 
the latter exclaimed , as with womanly curiosity she inspected Edith 's dress . 
Richard started , and putting his hand to Edith 's neck , felt that her collar was of crape , and a shadow passed over his face . 
He liked to think of her as a bright plumaged bird , not as sombre-hued and wearing the habiliments which come only from some grave . 
Without meaning it , his tone implied reproach , and it cut Edith cruelly , making her wish that she had told him all , when she wrote that she was coming home . 
`` Oh , Richard , '' she cried , `` do n't chide me for these outward tokens of sorrow . 
Everything is wrong , '' and Edith sobbed impetuously , while Richard essayed to comfort her . 
Gradually Edith grew calm , and after she had met the servants , and the supper she could not taste was over , she repeated to Richard the story she had heard from Marie , who had stopped for a time in New York to visit her sister . 
Edith did not know how terrible a message Nina had sent to him , and she replied , `` She talked of you a great deal , but I do not remember any particular word . 
I told her I was to be your wife , '' and Edith 's voice trembled , for this was but a prelude to what she meant to say ere she bade him good night . 
She should breathe so much more freely if she knew her bridal was not so near , and her sister 's death was surely a sufficient reason for deferring it . 
Summoning all her courage , she arose , and sitting on Richard 's knee , buttoned and unbuttoned his coat in a kind of abstracted manner , while she asked if it might be so . 
Edith had not thought of this in Florida , but here at home , it came to her like succor to the drowning , and she anxiously awaited Richard 's answer . 
Edith was satisfied with this , and when they parted her heart was lighted of a heavy load , for six months seemed to her a great , great while . 
The next day when Grace came up to call on Edith , and was told of the change , she shrugged her shoulders , for she knew that by this delay Richard stood far less chance of ever calling Edith his wife . 
But she merely said it was well , congratulating Edith upon her good fortune in being an heiress , and asking many questions about Arthur and Nina , both , and at last taking her leave without a hint as to her suspicions of the future . 
To Edith the idea had never occurred . 
After a few days of listless languor and pining home-sickness , Edith settled into her olden routine of reading , talking and singing to Richard , who thought himself happy even though she did not caress him as often as she used to do , and was sometimes impatient and even ill-natured towards him . 
Edith did mourn for sweet little Nina , but mourned not half so much for her as for the hopes forever fled -- for Arthur , at whose silence she greatly marvelled , thinking sometimes that she would write to him as to her brother , and then shrinking from the task because she knew not what to say . 
Spite of her feelings the six months she had thought so long were passing far too rapidly to suit her . 
Marie had become domesticated at Collingwood , but the negroes , who now called Edith mistress , still remained at Grassy Spring , waiting until Arthur should come , or some message be received from him . 
It was four months now since Edith left Sunnybank , and in all that time no tidings had come to her from Arthur . 
Grace 's letters were unanswered , and Grace herself was beginning to feel alarmed , when , one afternoon , Victor called Edith to an upper balcony and pointing in the direction of Grassy Spring , bade her look where the graceful columns of smoke were rising from all its chimneys , while its windows were opened wide , and the servants hurried in and out , seemingly big with some important event . 
`` Saddle Bedouin , '' said Edith , more excited than she had deemed it possible for her to be . 
Victor obeyed , and without a word to Richard , Edith was soon galloping off toward Grassy Spring , where she found Grace hurriedly giving orders to the delighted blacks , who tumbled over each other in their zeal to have everything in readiness for `` Marster Arthur . '' 
`` He started North the first of Feb. '' she said to Edith , `` taking Richmond on the way , and has been detained there ever since by sickness . 
Edith turned very white for a moment , and then there burned upon her cheek a round , red spot , induced by the feeling that the believing she was married had been the immediate cause of Arthur 's illness . 
Edith was no longer the pale , listless woman who moved so like a breathing statue around Collingwood , but a flushed , excited creature , flitting from room to room , and entering heart and soul into Grace 's plans for having everything about the house as cheerful and homelike as possible for the invalid . 
Arthur was indeed coming to Grassy Spring , brought thither by the knowing that something must be done with the place ere he went to Europe as he intended doing , and by the feverish desire to see Edith once more even though she were the wife of Richard , as he supposed her to be . 
Grace 's first letter had been lost , and as he had been some weeks on the way he knew nothing of matters at Collingwood , though occasionally there crept into his heart a throb of hope that possibly for Nina 's sake the marriage had been deferred and Edith might be Edith Hastings still . 
Their noise will disturb me , '' and he walked into the very room where Edith stood waiting for him . 
She had intended to meet him as a brother , the husband of her sister , but the sight of his white , suffering face swept her calmness all away , and with a burst of tears she cried , `` Oh , Arthur , Arthur , I did not think you had been so sick . 
Why did you not let us know ; I would have come to you , '' and she brought herself the arm-chair which he took , smiling faintly upon her and saying , `` It was bad business being sick at a hotel , and I did sometimes wish you were there , but of course I could not expect you to leave your husband . 
Edith could hear the beating of her heart and feel the blood tingling her cheeks as she replied , `` You mean Richard , but he is not my husband . 
He -- '' Quickly , eagerly Arthur looked up , the expression of his face speaking volumes of joy , surprise , and even hope , but all this faded away , leaving him paler , sicker-looking than before , as Edith continued , `` The marriage was a second time deferred on account of Nina 's death . 
Grace had left the room and an awkward silence ensued during which Arthur looked absently into the fire , while Edith gazed out upon the darkening sky , wondering if life would always be as hard to bear as now , and half wishing that Arthur St. Claire had staid at Sunnybank until the worst was over . 
There was a sound of wheels outside , and Edith heard Richard as he passed into the hall . 
He had received her message , and thinking it proper for him to welcome Mr. St. Claire , he had come to Grassy Spring to do so , as well as to escort Edith home . 
Richard could not see how much Arthur was changed , but his quick ear detected the weak , tremulous tones of the voice , which tried to greet him steadily , and so the conversation turned first upon Arthur 's recent illness , and then upon Nina , until at last , as Richard rose to leave , he laid his arm across Edith 's shoulder and said playfully , `` You know of course , that what you predicted , when years ago you asked me to take a certain little girl , is coming true . 
Edith has promised to be my wife . 
`` Thank you , '' was all Arthur could say , as with his accustomed politeness he arose to bid his guests good night ; but his lip quivered as he said it , and his eye never for a moment rested upon Edith , who led Richard in silence to the carriage , feeling that all she loved in the wide world was left there in the little library where the light was shining , and where , although she did not know it , Grace was ministering to the half fainting Arthur . 
The sight of Edith and Richard had affected him more than he supposed it would , but the worst was over now , p593-343 and as he daily grew stronger in the bracing northern air he felt more and more competent to meet what lay before him . 
On the occasion of these visits Edith usually kept out of the way , avoiding him so studiously that Richard began to fear she might perhaps dislike him , and he resolved to ask her the first good opportunity . 
But Edith avoided him , too , never coming now to sit with him alone ; somebody must always be present when she was with him , else had her bursting heart betrayed the secret telling so fearfully upon her . 
Oh , how hateful to her were the preparations for her bridal , which had commenced on a most magnificent scale , for Richard , after waiting so long , would have a grand wedding , and that all who chose might witness the ceremony , it was to be performed in the church , from which the guests would accompany him back to Collingwood . 
And here the knot of gossippers , at the corner of the streets , or in the stores , or in the parlors at home , would draw more closely together as they whispered , `` Does she love Richard Harrington as she ought ? 
Is not her heart given rather to the younger , handsomer St. Claire ? '' 
Edith was almost crazy , and Arthur , whenever he chanced to meet her , marvelled at the change since he saw her last . 
Once he , too , thought of appealing to Richard to save her from so sad a fate as that of an unloving wife , but he would not interfere , lest by so doing he should err again , and so in dreary despair , which each day grew blacker and more hopeless , Edith was left alone , until Victor roused in her behalf , and without allowing himself time to reflect , sought his master 's presence , bearing with him Nina 's letter , and the soiled sheet on which Richard had unwittingly scratched out Arthur 's marriage . 
It had sung there all the morning , and now it had come back again , singing a second time to Richard , who thought of the soft nest up in the old maple , and likened that robin and its mate to himself and Edith , his own singing-bird . 
Why did Edith keep it from me ? 
Say , Victor , '' and again Richard listened , this time , oh , how eagerly , while Victor told him what he knew of that fatal marriage , kept so long a secret , and as he listened , the beaded drops stood thickly upon his forehead and gathered around his ashen lips , for Victor purposely let fall a note of warning which shot through the quivering nerves of the blind man like a barbed burning arrow , wringing from him the piteous cry , `` Oh , Victor , Victor , does she -- does Edith love Arthur ? 
Has she loved him all the time ? 
Is it this which makes her voice so sad , her step so slow ? 
Victor was reading now about these woods and the scene enacted there , and Richard understood it all , even to the reason why Edith had persisted in being his wife . 
Across the threshold Victor led the half-fainting man , meeting with no one until his master 's chamber was reached , when Edith came through the hall , and , glancing in , saw the white face on the pillow , where Victor had laid his master down , Richard heard her step , and said , faintly , `` Keep her off ; I can not bear it yet ! '' 
But even while he spoke Edith was there beside him , asking , in much alarm , what was the matter . 
She must not kiss him now , and , putting up his hands with the feebleness of a little child , he cried piteously , `` Do n't Edith , do n't ! 
`` How can I lose her now , '' he moaned . 
`` Why did n't she tell me at the first ? 
Oh , Edith , my lost Edith . 
Oh , how it aches , how it aches , and still I love her just the same ; aye , love her more , now that I know she must not be mine . 
Edith , oh , my Edith ! '' 
He could not ask Edith . 
Her voice would stir his heart-strings with a keener , deeper agony than he was enduring now . 
He would be more careful , more tender , and while Edith might confirm the whole with one of her wild , impulsive outbursts , Arthur would reach the same point gradually and less painfully . 
Richard was determined , and when Edith came from her scarcely tasted supper , she saw p593-350 the carriage as it passed through the Collingwood grounds on its way to Grassy Spring , but little dreamed of what would be ere its occupant returned to them again . 
From the first he had intended making Edith a bridal present -- a life-sized portrait of Nina , which he knew she would value more than gifts of gold and silver . 
He had in his possession a daguerreotype taken when she was just eighteen , and sent to him by her father among other things , of which Charlie Hudson was the bearer . 
Arthur knew that he was living , for the lips moved once and whispered , `` Edith , '' causing Arthur 's brain to reel , and the cold sweat to start from every pore as he thought for what and for whom he was saving his rival . 
Life looked very fair to the young man then ; even life without Edith was preferable far to a death like this . 
It was Edith . 
He saw her where she stood , apart from all the rest , her long black hair unbound just as she sprang from her pillow , her arms outstretched toward him , and the sight nerved him to the trial . 
He looked at her once more , it might be for the last time , but he would carry the remembrance of that dear face even to eternity , and with a longing , wistful glance he closed his eyes and prepared to do her bidding . 
Then it seemed to him that another presence than Edith 's was around him , another voice than hers was whispering words of courage , Nina , who went before , guiding his footsteps , and lightening his load , screening him from the scorching heat and buoying him up , while he walked the blackened beam , which shook and bent at every tread , and at last fell with a crash , but not until the ladder was reached , and a dozen friendly arms were outstretched for Richard , and for him , too , for sight and strength had failed him when they were no longer needed . 
With countless blessings on the noble young man , they laid him on the grass at Edith 's side , wounded , burned , smoke-stained , and totally unconscious . 
It was well for Richard that the entire household of Collingwood were there to care for him , for Edith 's thoughts were all bestowed on Arthur . 
This reminded Edith that she too must act , and beckoning to Victor , she bade him hasten to Collingwood and see that his master 's room was made comfortable . 
This was the first token she had given that she knew of Richard 's presence near her . 
Edith had fancied so too , and wondering much why it should , she left him and going to her own room , sat down by the window , gazing sadly across the fields , to where Grassy Spring lay in the morning sunshine a blackened , smouldering ruin . 
For a few days Edith hoped that the fire might defer her marriage a little longer but almost the first thing which Richard addressed directly to her was , `` Let the preparations go on as usual ; there need be no delay . '' 
It is true he was kind and considerate , as of old , and his voice , whenever he spoke to Edith , was plaintively sad and touching , but he preferred to be much alone , spending his time in his chamber , into which few save his valet was admitted . 
Many times after this he rode down to Brier Hill whither Edith had frequently preceded him ; but Richard never uttered a word of reproach when near the window he heard a rustling sound and knew who was sitting there . 
It was not yet filled up -- that grave -- but his mighty love for Edith lay coffined there , and he only waited for the needful strength to bury it forever by verbally giving her up . 
And while he waited the May-days glided by , and where the apple blossoms once had been , the green hard fruit was swelling now , the lilacs , purple and limp , had dropped from the tree , the hyacinths and daffodils were gone , and June with her sunny skies and wealth of roses , queened it over Collingwood . 
It lacked but a week now of the day appointed for the wedding , and Edith wished the time would hasten , for anything was preferable to the numb , apathetic feeling which lay around her heart . 
She had no hope that she should not be Richard 's wife , and she wondered much at his manner , trying more than once to coax him from his strange mood by playful words , and even by caresses , which won from him no responses -- only once , when , he hagged her tightly to him , kissing her lips and hair , and saying to her , `` God forgive me , Birdie , I never meant to wrong you and I am going to make amends . '' 
Edith should read Nina 's letter aloud to him , with Arthur sitting near , and then , when it was finished , he would ask if it were true , and why she had not told him before . 
Dinner was over , and in the library , where Richard had asked Edith to be his wife , he sat waiting for her now , and for Arthur who had been invited to Collingwood that afternoon . 
Edith was right ; she could not mate with the owl , he thought , just as Arthur stepped across the threshold , and Edith came tripping down the stairs . 
Do not interrupt me , '' he continued , as Edith was about to speak . 
Arthur could not speak , and , save the violent start which Edith gave , there came no answer to Richard 's question as he went on : `` It is only a few weeks since I learned who was that boy husband of eighteen and that girlish bride of fifteen and a half , but I know it now . 
Edith , '' and he felt for her bowed head , `` Edith , I have here Nina 's letter , written by stealth , and brought by Victor to me , and you must read it to us -- then tell me , if you can , why I have so long been deceived ? '' 
Edith had glanced at the beginning , and with a choking voice she said , `` No , no , oh , Richard , no . 
I never meant -- oh , Richard , Richard ! '' 
She laid her head now on his knee and sobbed aloud , while he continued : `` You must read it to me . 
`` Read it , Edith , '' Arthur said , withdrawing one of his hands from Richard 's , and resting it upon her head thus to re-assure her . 
Edith felt the gentle , forgiving pressure , even through the wounded , bandaged hand , and this it was which gave her strength to read that message , which brought Nina before them all , a seemingly living , breathing presence . 
`` Edith , '' Richard said , when her agitation had in a measure subsided , `` you have read the letter , now tell me , is it true ? 
`` Spare Edith , '' Arthur cried ; `` and question me . 
I did love Edith Hastings , even when I had no right so to do . 
`` And would you ask her to be your wife if there were no Richard in the way , and she was free as when you first knew and loved her ? '' 
Do you love Edith so much that you would give her to another , if you knew she loved that other best ? 
If she were promised to you by a vow she dared not break , would you give her to me , supposing I was preferred before you ? '' 
Arthur was very white , as he answered , `` That would not be one-half so hard as the yielding her to one whom she did not love , and , Richard , I have done this . 
`` But , '' said Arthur , quickly interrupting him , `` you must not think that I loved Edith less , because I did not speak . 
Silence only fed the flame , and she can not be so inexpressibly dear to you as she is to me . 
and Richard smiled mournfully ; then turning to Edith , he continued , `` And you , my darling , I would hear from you now . 
`` Oh , Richard , '' Edith cried , `` I meant to keep my vow , and never let you know . 
`` Edith , '' he said , `` if I insist upon it , will you still be my wife ? '' 
Edith loved Arthur best . 
I told her so before she died , and I would fain have kept her with me , but I could not , and now , if I lose Edith , too , it will not be so hard , because I did love Nina , and sweet memories of her will keep my soul from fainting , when I am far away from her little grave , far away from you , and far away from Edith . '' 
Edith Hastings can not be dearer to you than she is to me , but think you I will compel her to be mine ? 
Should I be happy , knowing that always in her dreams another arm than mine encircled her dear form , that other lips than mine were pressed to hers , which moaned in sleep not Richard 's , but Arthur 's name ? 
`` Oh , I would n't , I would n't , '' Edith sobbed , and Richard continued , `` Hush , my child , I know how it would be , even if I did forget it for a time . 
And now , Edith , let me hold you once more as I never shall hold you again . 
Edith could not move , but Arthur lifted her up , and placing her in Richard 's lap , laid one of his own hands pityingly on the head of the blind man , whose tears dropped on Edith 's neck , as he breathed over her his farewell . 
And , Edith , if during the coming week I am not much with you , if I stay altogether in my room , do not try to see me . 
Now , Edith , kiss me once , kiss me twice , with your arms around my neck . 
Yes -- so -- so -- '' and over the dark face there broke a shadowy smile , as Edith did his bidding , kissing him many , many times , and blessing him for the great happiness bestowed upon her . 
He put Edith from his lap -- passed his hand slowly p593-365 over her face , as if thus he would remember it , and then , leaning heavily on Arthur 's arm , tottered from the room -- the noble Richard who had made this mighty sacrifice . 
Edith had made strenuous efforts to have the party given up , sending message after message to Richard , who , without any good reason for it , was determined upon this one point , and always answered `` No . '' 
He had adhered to his resolution of staying in his room , and Edith had not seen him since the eventful day when he had made the great sacrifice . 
And still Richard tried to be cheerful , talking but little of Edith , and appearing so calm when he did mention her , that a casual observer would have said he did not care . 
It was a glorious day , for leafy June had donned her gala robes for the occasion , and every heart , save one , beat with joy , as the sun rose higher and higher in the heavens , bringing nearer and nearer the appointed hour . 
Not even Arthur was permitted to be with him , and none save Victor saw the white , still anguish creeping over his face as hour after hour went by , and from the sounds without he knew that they had come whose business it was to array his Edith in her bridal robes of costly satin and fleecy lace . 
Edith obeyed the summons , and in all her wondrous beauty , which this night shone forth resplendently , she came and stood before him , saying softly , `` Richard , I am here . '' 
He knew she was there , and drawing her to his side , he said , `` I am glad that I am blind for once , for should I behold you as you are , I could not give you up . 
Kneel down here , darling , and let me feel how beautiful you are . '' 
She knelt before him , and her tears fell fast as she felt his hand moving slowly over her dress , pressing lightly her round arms , pausing for a moment upon her white neck , tarrying still longer upon her glowing cheeks , and finally resting in mute blessing upon her braids of hair , where the orange blossoms were . 
Leave it on the table , where Victor can find it , for , Edith , when you return from your bridal tour , I shall be gone , and I have sent for you because I would talk with you again ere we part -- it may be for years , and it may be forever . '' 
`` No , Richard , no , '' Edith sobbed . 
I have been thinking it over , Edith , and I see more and more that it was right for me to release you . 
`` Oh , Richard , Richard , '' Edith burst out impetuously , `` I never loved you one half so much as since you gave me to Arthur , and I have wanted to come and tell you so , but you would not let me . '' 
He knew what kind of love she meant , and his heart beat just the same as she continued , `` I wanted to tell you how sorry I am that I was ever cross to you , and I have been many times since that night I promised to be yours . 
This was not very complimentary to Edith , but it comforted her just as Richard meant it should , and made the future look brighter . 
Richard had arisen as Arthur was speaking , and at the word bride he put out his hand as if to keep from falling , then steadying that on Arthur 's head and laying the other on Edith 's he whispered , `` To him who saved my life when he believed I was his rival I give my singing bird , who for eleven years has been the blind man 's sunshine -- give her freely , cheerfully , harboring no malice against him who takes her . 
My Arthur and my precious Edith , I bless and love you both . '' 
Slowly Richard moved forward , and Grace , who was next to Edith , stepped aside as he came near . 
Reverently he laid his hand on Edith 's head , and said aloud , `` I do ! '' 
Then the hand , sliding from her head rested on her shoulder , where it lay all through that ceremony , and the weeping spectators sitting near , heard distinctly the words whispered by the white lips which dripped with the perspiration of this last dreadful agony . 
He said it every word , and when it was Edith 's turn , he bent a little forward , while his hand grasped her bare shoulder so firmly as to leave a mark when she put Arthur 's name where his should have been , and the quivering lips moaned faintly , `` Do n't Birdie , do n't . '' 
It was a strange bridal , more sad than joyous , for though in the hearts of bride and groom there was perfect love for each other , there were too many bitter memories crowding upon them both to make it a moment of unmixed bliss -- memories of Nina , who seemed to stand by Arthur , blessing him in tones unheard , and a sadder , a living memory of the poor blind man whose low wail , when all was done , smote painfully on Edith 's ear . 
`` I can tell that a heap better 'n Nina , '' chimed in a boy of five , who was sitting just across the aisle , and joining the little girl , he continued , `` My mother is Edith , so Aunt Grace calls her , but father says Miggie most all the time . 
The stranger sank into the seat , dizzy and faint with the mighty shock , for he knew now that Edith 's children were standing there before him -- that frank , fearless boy , and that sweet little girl , who , not earing to be outdone by her brother , said , in a half exultant way , as if it were something of which she were very proud , `` I 've got an Uncle ` Ichard , I have , and he 's tomin ' home bime by . '' 
These children had been the hardest part of all to forgive , particularly the first born , for Richard , when he heard of him had felt all the old sorrow coming back again ; a feeling as if Edith had no right with little ones which did not call him father . 
Victor had calculated aright , for nothing could have pleased the St. Claires more ; and when , as she entered at the door , Edith caught sight of her offspring , she hardly knew them , so besmeared were their little faces with molasses , Nina having wiped her hands first upon her hair and then rubbed them upon Richard 's knee , while Victor looked on a little doubtful as to what the mother might say . 
Edith had been to New York with Marie and the children , leaving the former there for a few weeks , and was now on her way home , whither she hoped ere long to welcome Richard , whom she had never seen since the night of her marriage , when Victor led him half fainting from the altar . 
Regularly after that they heard from him , and though he never referred to the past , Edith knew how much it cost him to write to one whom he had loved so much . 
Latterly , however , his letters had been far more cheerful in their tone , and it struck Edith that his hand-writing too , was more even than formerly , but she suspected nothing and rather anticipated the time when she should be eyes for him again , just as she used to be . 
He had said in his last letter that he was coming home ere long , but she had no idea that he was so near , and she wondered what tall , greyish haired gentleman it was who had taken possession of her seat . 
`` Mother , '' little Dick was about to scream , when Victor placed his hand upon his mouth , at the same time turning his back to Edith , who , a little surprised at the proceeding , and a little indignant it may be , said rather haughtily , and with a hasty glance at Richard , `` My seat , sir , if you please . '' 
The boy by this time had broken away from Victor , and yelled out , `` Uncle Dick , ma , Uncle Dick ; '' but it did not need this now to tell Edith who it was . 
A second glance had told her , and with face almost as white as the linen collar about her neck , she reeled forward , and would have fallen but for Victor , who caught her by the shoulder and set her down beside his master . 
`` Mam-ma 's tyin ' , '' said Nina , and then Edith 's tears fell fast , dropping upon the broad hand she still held , and which very , very gradually , but still intentionally drew hers directly beneath the green shade , and there Richard kept it , his thumb hiding the broad band of gold which told she was a wife . 
`` They crept into my heart before I knew it , '' he said , releasing Edith 's hand and lifting Nina to his knee . 
This reminded Edith of the mysterious shade which puzzled her so much , and , without replying directly to him , she asked why it was worn . 
Victor shot a quick , nervous glance at his master , who without the slightest tremor in his voice , told her that he had of late been troubled with weak eyes , and as the dust and sunlight made them worse , he had been advised to wear it while traveling as a protection . 
And Edith hoped he would , for he did not seem natural to her with that ugly thing disfiguring him as it did . 
A misstep backward , a tumble and a bumped head brought this sport to an end , just as Shannondale was reached , and in her attempts to soothe the little girl , Edith failed to see that the shade was lifted for a single moment , while , standing upon the platform , Richard 's eyes wandered eagerly , greedily over the broad meadow lands and fields of waving grain , over the wooded hills , rich in summer glory , and lastly toward Collingwood , with its roofs and slender tower basking in the July sun . 
Arthur asked himself this question many times , and at last , when they reached Collingwood and Edith had alighted , he bent forward and whispered in Richard 's ear , not an interrogation , but a positive affirmation , which brought back the response , `` Do n't tell her -- not yet , I mean . '' 
Never since the bridal night had the name Edith passed his lips , and if perchance he heard it from others , he shuddered involuntarily . 
Still the sound of her voice had not hurt him as he thought it would ; nothing had been half so hard as he had anticipated , and falling upon his knees , he poured out his soul in prayer , nor heard the steps upon the threshold as Arthur came in , his heart too full to tarry outside longer . 
When at last their prayers were ended , both involuntarily advanced to the window , where , with his handsome , manly face turned fully to the light , Arthur stood immovable , nor flinched a hair , as Edith would ere long when passing the same ordeal . 
They then talked together of a plan concerning Edith , after which Arthur left his brother to the repose he so much needed ere joining them in the parlor below . 
Meantime , in Edith 's room Arthur was virtually superintending the making of his wife 's evening toilet , a most unprecedented employment for mankind in general , and him in particular . 
But for some reason wholly inexplicable to Edith , Arthur was unusually anxious about her personal appearance , suggesting among other things that she should wear a thin pink muslin , which he knew so well became her dark style of beauty ; and when she reminded him of its shortcomings with regard to waist and sleeves , he answered playfully , `` That does not matter . 
So Edith donned the pink dress , and clasping upon her neck and arms the delicate ornaments made from Nina 's hair , asked of Arthur , `` How she looked . '' 
And Edith was handsomer than on the night when she stood at the altar a bride , for six years of almost perfect happiness had chased away the restless , careworn , sorrowful look which was fast becoming habitual , and now , at twenty-six , Edith St. Claire was pronounced by the world the most strikingly beautiful woman of her age . 
And this was Edith , who when her toilet was completed went down to meet Grace Atherton just arrived and greatly flurried when she heard that Richard had come . 
Arthur smiled , and without replying to his son , said to Richard , `` I have come now to take you to Edith . 
`` I could tell your wife from all the world , '' was Richard 's answer , as putting down the children and resuming the green shade , he went with Arthur to the door of the library , where Grace and Edith , standing with their backs to them were too much engaged to notice that more than Arthur was coming . 
Him Edith heard , and turning towards him she was about to speak , when Richard lowered the green shade he had raised for a single moment , and walking up to her took her hand in his . 
Edith was suprised , and stammered out something about Grace 's being in the room . 
`` Never mind Mrs. Atherton , '' he said , `` I will attend to her by and by -- my business is now with you , '' and he led her to the window , where Arthur had carried a stool . 
Like lightning the truth flashed upon Grace , and with a nervous glance at the mirror to see how she herself was looking that afternoon , she stood motionless , while Richard dashing the shade to the floor , said to the startled Edith , `` The blind man would know how Petrea 's daughter looks . '' 
With a frightened shriek Edith covered up her face , and laying her head in its old resting place , Richard 's lap , exclaimed , `` No , no , oh no , Richard . 
Was the face he had known so long in his darkness as Edith 's , natural when seen by daylight ? 
Was Arthur 's Edith at all like Richard 's singing bird ? 
He had not called her Birdie before , and the familiar name compensated for all the pain which Edith had suffered when she saw those strangely black eyes fastened upon her , and knew that they could see . 
Springing to her feet the moment she was released , she jumped into his lap in her old impetuous way , and winding her arms around his neck , sobbed out , `` I am so glad , Richard , so glad . 
This had the effect of rousing Edith , who , faint with excitement , was led by Arthur out into the open air , thus leaving Richard alone with his first love of twenty-five years ago . 
In an instant he stood before what was to him , not so much a picture painted on rude canvas , as a living reality -- the golden-haired angel , who was now as closely identified with his every thought and feeling as even Edith herself had ever been . 
Edith is beautiful , but not -- '' `` As beautiful as Nina was , am I ? '' 
said a voice behind him , and turning round , Richard drew Edith to his side , and encircling her with his arm answered frankly , `` No , my child , you are not as beautiful as Nina . '' 
Tell me honestly , '' and Edith peered up half-archly , half-timidly into the eyes whose glance she scarcely yet dared meet . 
`` In other words , I show by my face that I am a Bernard , and something of a spitfire , '' suggested Edith , and Richard rejoined , `` I think you do , '' adding as he held her a little closer to him , `` Had I been earlier blessed with sight , I should have known I could not tame you . 
Just at this point , little Nina came in , and taking her in her arms , Edith said , `` I wanted to call her Edith , after myself , as I thought it might please you ; but Arthur said no , she must be Nina Bernard . '' 
Home influences were already doing him good , and when at last supper was announced , he looked very happy as he took again his accustomed seat at the table , with Arthur opposite Edith just where she used to be , and Grace , sitting at his right . 
It was a pleasant family party they made , and the servants marvelled much to hear Richard 's hearty laugh mingling with Edith 's merry peal . 
That night , when the July moon came up over the New England hills , it looked down upon the four -- Richard and Arthur , Grace and Edith , sitting upon the broad piazza as they had not sat in years , Grace a little apart from the rest , and Edith between her husband and Richard , holding a hand of each , and listening intently while the latter told them how rumors of a celebrated Parisian oculist had reached him in his wanderings ; how he had sought the rooms of that oculist , leaving them a more hopeful man than when he entered ; how the hope then enkindled grew stronger month after month , until the thick folds of darkness gave way to a creamy kind of haze , which hovered for weeks over his horizon of sight , growing gradually whiter and thinner , until faint outlines were discovered , and to his unutterable joy he counted the window panes , knowing then that sight was surely coming back . 
This was something he kept to himself , referring but once to Nina during his narrative , and that when he said to Edith , `` You remember , darling , Nina told me in her letter that she 'd keep asking God to give me back my sight . '' 
Edith cared but little by whose agency this great cure had been accomplished , and laying her head on Richard 's knee , just as a girl she used to do , she wept out her joy for sight restored to her noble benefactor , reproaching him for having kept the good news from them so carefully , even shutting his eyes when he wrote to them so that his writing should be natural , and the surprise when he did return , the greater . 
My usual luck , you know , '' and his black eyes rested a moment on her face and then wandered to where Edith sat . 
He had been comparatively happy across the sea , and he was happier still now that he was at home , wishing he had come before , and wondering why it was that the sight of Edith did not pain him , as he feared it would . 
He liked to look at her , to hear her musical voice , to watch her graceful movements as she flitted about the house , and as the days and weeks went on he grew young again in her society , until he was much like the Richard to whom she once said , `` I will be your wife , '' save that his raven hair was tinged with grey , making him , as some thought , finer-looking than ever . 
On one of the iron seats scattered over the lawn sits Richard , watching them as they play , not moodily , not mournfully , for grief and sorrow have no lodgment in the once blind Richard 's heart , and he verily believes that he is as happy without Edith as he could possibly have been with her . 
The gift of sight has compensated for all his olden pain , and often to himself he says , `` I would hardly be blind again for the sake of Edith 's first affections . '' 
He calls her Edith now , just as he used to do , and Edith knows that only a scar is left as a memento of the fearful sacrifice . 
The morning has broken at last , the darkness passed away , and while basking in the full , rich daylight , both Richard and Arthur , and Edith wonder if they are the same to whom the world was once so dreary . 
But the servants scoffed at the idea , while Arthur and Edith look curiously on , half hoping Victor is right , and so that matter remains in uncertainty . 
Frequently has Arthur talked of rebuilding it as a home for his children , but as Richard has always opposed it and Edith is indifferent , he will probably remain at Collingwood . 
Away to the south , the autumn winds blow softly around Sunnybank , where Edith 's negroes are living as happy under the new administration as the old , speaking often of their beautiful mistress , who , when the winter snows fall on the Bay State hills , will wend her way to the southward , and Christmas fires will again be kindled upon the hearthstones left desolate so many years . 
And yet this single word has a power to touch the deepest , tenderest feelings of two hearts at least , Arthur 's and Edith 's -- speaking to them of the little golden-haired girl who crossed so innocently their pathway , striving hard to efface all prints of her footsteps , caring to the last for her `` Arthur boy , '' and the `` Miggie '' she loved so well , and calling to them , as it were , even after the rolling river was safely forded , and she was landed beside the still waters in the bright , green fields of Eden . 
