` Thedoctor 's come , Miss Rosalie , ' said a woman , opening the door of that very third story room . 
` You have been asleep , ' Rosalie said , resting her own upon them . 
And even as she spoke , a long-continued and portentous creaking of boots came to a sudden stop at the door , -- Doctor Buffem having paused for breath and admittance . 
Miss Rosalie , ' he said with some impatience . 
` I thought it would be quieter up here , ' Rosalie said , with a face that was grave only because she had no heart to smile . 
S , c , a , r , ' said the doctor , looking round at Rosalie . 
She gave no answer -- that he could see , and none for him to hear . 
One quick bound of the heart -- a bright spot that came and as quickly left her cheek , and she stood there as before , the hands perhaps holding each other in a somewhat firmer clasp . 
` Hum -- ah ' -- said the doctor , with a recollective glance at Rosalie 's black dress which sent a thrill to her fingerends , -- the wound would not bear even that slight touch . 
She bowed assentingly . 
` You 're so close to the sun up here , Miss Rosalie , that he 'll put out the eyes of well people if you give him a chance . 
And get her undressed and put to bed , ' he added , with a nod at the sick child . 
` She wo n't want to take much exercise to-day nor to-morrow . 
` Hark you , Miss Rosalie , ' he said , ` do n't forget why I left that crack in the window-shutter . 
But Rosalie thought that there was many a thing in life to do that office for her spirits had they needed it . 
-- With that thought came one of life 's great antagonist , and sitting down once more by the bed she took her little sister on her lap , and began very tenderly that work of undressing which the doctor had recommended . 
Was there anything in death to depress her ? 
There had been , -- the tokens of his power were not less plain upon her face than in her dress ; and now -- human nature lived still ! 
Rosalie felt as if some hand were trying its strength even now . 
There was something in these quiet preparations for suffering that tried her extremely ; and to brace her mind for possibilities , without that sudden strength which an emergency gives , was very hard . 
And more than once was her hand passed across her face with that feeling of which Rutherford wrote , -- ` O how sweet it is for a sinner to put his weakness in Christ 's strengthening hand ! 
The child smiled with a perfect understanding of her words , -- a look so quick and bright , that Rosalie was silent until her little charge was laid in the bed . 
` I have done as the people did when Jesus was in the world , ' Rosalie answered , -- ` when they brought their sick and laid them down at Jesus ' feet , and besought him that he would heal them . ' 
` I wish you would ask him again , ' said the child wearily closing her eyes , ` for my head aches very much . ' 
And kneeling down with the little hand fast in hers , Rosalie spoke once more the words of submission and entreaty , -- that strange mingling of feeling which none but a Christian can either know or rest in . 
When she arose Hulda was asleep . 
Carefully drawing the drapery around the bed corner , so as to shield the child 's eyes yet more from the light , Rosalie began to busy herself in arranging the room for its new use . 
At first Rosalie had half determined that none of the servants should be allowed to enter the sick-room ; but Martha Jumps , light of heart as of foot , having declared that nothing short of a dismissal from the house should keep her from going where she pleased in it , she was made an exception , -- and forthwith moved about with a great access of dignity . 
Tom Skiddy says -- What next , Miss Rosalie ? ' 
was Rosalie 's last question . 
The doctor had come on his promised visit , and had left medicine ` to be taken when she wakes up ; ' and still Rosalie sat there alone in the dim light from the fire , and the far off and shielded candle . 
was Rosalie 's first greeting . 
` No , ' said Rosalie , with a smile which she could not repress at the very idea ; ` for then I should have two people to take care of instead of one . ' 
` What are you going to give her ? ' 
` Well I will come in then and see how you get on , and give her the medicine . ' 
But it was Rosalie 's arm that raised her up , and it was on Rosalie 's bosom that her head lay ; and if Hulda dreamed of angels that night , they all wore Rosalie 's face . 
Forseveral days the doctor 's visits were short and frequent ; and his conversation was made up of little abrupt questions and ejaculations , assurances to Hulda that if he killed her he would have her buried , and earnest requests to Rosalie that she would furnish him with another patient . 
Counsel and warning about antimony and apple-water took up what further time the doctor saw fit to bestow in this quarter of his round ; and then the room was left to the unquiet motions of the sick child , and the gentle and tender ministering of her nurse . 
Sometimes when Hulda was more than usually at ease , her eyes followed Rosalie about the room -- watching with a dreamy pleasure the perfect doing of the one person whom she thought perfect , -- noticing the noiseless placing of a stick of wood on the fire , and the laughing answer which the flames gave thereto ; and sometimes her thoughts were held fast for a while , as the white ashes came over the red coals , and then dropped off , or the sap went singing out at the end of the stick , or the stick itself broke and fell down over the andirons . 
But her eyes got tired with the light and went after Rosalie , who was perhaps arranging the cups and napkin on the little stand ; and if she went into the closet Hulda knew she had gone for an apple , and watched with some interest while the apple was made fast to a string , and that again to the mantelpiece . 
At this point she always felt thirsty , and was quite ready for the tumbler by the time it came to her bedside ; but though Rosalie held her up , and managed glass and spoon to admiration -- tasted the apple-water too , lest it might be not sweet or not cool enough -- Hulda could take but a few spoonfuls , and was glad to lie down again . 
Hulda could bear very little talking or reading , and her greatest comfort was to have Rosalie 's face on the pillow with her own , and to hear from her lips a verse of a hymn or from the Bible , or some little story or incident , or a few of her own sweet and quiet words . 
No one else entered the room , except to bring wood and water and Rosalie 's meals ; and on these occasions Martha Jumps restrained as much as possible her own love of talk , and said not many words more than were needful . 
And as in health , so in sickness , the morning never rose and the evening never fell , that Rosalie did not kneel by her little sister , and pray with her and for her in just such words as she could understand . 
What would you say , Rosalie , if I should report -- and if the doctor should issue contrary orders ? ' 
` I should hear them , ' she answered with a smile that told very plainly what more she would do . 
` It would be strange , ' said Rosalie with a very gentle look at Hulda , and then turning one no less gentle but of somewhat different expression upon Thornton . 
` It would be strange if a child brought up as she has been , to look upon God as her best friend , should be disturbed or wearied by all mention of his name . ' 
` The world does not go by pounding , ' said Rosalie , -- ` and your fire is going up chimney in the shape of sparks . 
I wonder you submit to be called Rosalie ! 
` I should not like to undertake any more Sisterhoods than I belong to at present , ' said Rosalie with a slight smile . 
She stood silent and still , while the flickering light of the fire played over her face , and mingled curiously with the feelings that flitted to and fro there . 
she said ; ` would you forget our mother ? ' 
Her hands were laid upon his shoulders now , and her eyes looked clear and full into his . 
He would willingly have freed himself from that light touch of reproof and sorrow , yet he did not try ; but his own eyes fell , and it was with a very changed and softened expression that he answered , ` I would sometimes forget if I could that she is not here . ' 
She might have filled that mother 's place for the way in which she looked at him . 
And then laying her head on his shoulder , while her hands were clasped about his neck , Rosalie said , -- ` If you could . 
never forget where she is ! 
And yet he did not answer according to that assurance -- and there was no more spoken ; for when Rosalie raised her head it was to bid him once more ` Goodnight , ' and he left her without a word . 
But everything was ready for him , and the room not only wore a comfortable but a comforted aspect ; for Rosalie 's face was a shade less anxious , and Hulda 's face several shades more bright . 
Not sick yet , Miss Rosalie ? 
Shelooks like an oyster , do n't she , Miss Tom Thumb ? ' 
` O Rosalie had it for her breakfast , ' said Hulda . 
Wait a day or two , Miss Rosalie , and then give her beefsteak , and a little antimony , a soda biscuit , a cup of chickenbroth , a buckwheat cake , a little salts or magnesia or castor oil -- whichever she likes best -- an oyster , a clam , a cup of tea ; keep the room at 70 ° , and the sunlight out of doors , and then read Cowper . ' 
As the doctor stamped out of the room , Rosalie sat down by Hulda , and putting her arms round her laid her own head on the pillow , with a feeling of thankfulness that was too weary to do aught but rest . 
So now the sooner the quicker , Miss Rosalie . 
She smells dreadful strong of pickles . ' 
With this forewarning Rosalie felt no surprise that her visiter 's salutation kept at the safe distance of a somewhat warding-off bow of the head ; and as she herself did not feel impelled to advance nearer , they took chairs at opposite sides of the fire . 
And Mrs. Arnet made free use of her aromatic vinegar , while Rosalie 's heart sought better help . 
Rosalie felt sure of it , too . 
` She is so very imprudent , ' pursued Mrs. Arnet . 
` And nothing to the family of one 's adopted brother , ' thought Rosalie . 
But she checked the thought , and answered quietly that family duties could hardly be overrated . 
And too affected for more words , the lady bent her head graciously and left the room , giving Rosalie a wide berth as she went . 
In another minute Rosalie was up-stairs . 
said he in answer to Rosalie 's first look of pleasant surprise . 
` You look sorrowful , Alie , ' said her brother . 
` She left her best love for you , ' said Rosalie . 
` I hope she did not come on purpose to bring it , ' he said . 
` If her love were in the market , the report would be , ` Supply light , and the market dull . '' 
` She says , ' continned Rosalie , ` that if Marion had been at home nothing could have kept her from coming here . ' 
not Rosalie ? ' 
Rosalie stood watching it all , -- watching the people as they hurried home , the parlour windows lit up , the bright doorways that appeared and vanished , the happy groups gathering at tea . 
She could see them across the way , -- those fair shadows , young and old , moving about in the bright glow . 
And in the next house -- and the next , -- up and down , as far as she could see ; -- it was one line of telegraphing . 
She remembered the long talks , the sweet counsel given in that dusky light , -- the eyes that had looked down upon her like heaven 's own stars ; but now the room was not darker than her heart . 
It was not the first time she had stood there watching for her brother , -- she had looked till each frequenter of that street was perfectly well known . 
It was not the first time she had watched in sadness . 
But she remembered that there had been a time when she was never suffered to watch there long -- when a gentle hand would be passed round her waist , and she be drawn away from the window , with , ` We may not overrule these things , daughter -- we must not be children in whom is no faith . 
Pressing her hand upon her heart , Rosalie turned hastily from the window . 
Rosalie ventured but one glance at it , and kneeling down at her mother 's chair , she laid her face on the cushion with a bitter weariness of heart that found poor relief in tears . 
Yet they were a relief ; and after a while her mind lay quiet upon those words , `` God is our refuge and strength : a very present help in trouble . '' 
A soft touch on her neck aroused her , and with an almost bewildered start Rosalie looked up ; but it was ` neither angel nor spirit ' -- it was only little Hulda . 
` O yes , ' said Hulda , laughing and wrapping her arms round Rosalie 's neck , -- ` do n't that feel awake ? 
` I shall wait for Thornton , but you shall have yours , dear ; ' and getting up with the child in her arms , Rosalie carried her into the tea-room , and fell back into her own quiet performance of duties . 
Hulda was in quite high spirits for her , and eat her supper on Rosalie 's lap with great relish , -- a relish partly derived from returning health , and partly from this first coming down-stairs . 
she said . 
` You know it 's Newyear 's eve , Rosalie , and you must hang up my stocking . ' 
` There is no fear of my forgetting that , ' said her sister . 
But the musing fit was strong upon her ; and later in the evening , when her little charge was asleep , Rosalie 's mind could do nothing but wander in a wilderness of recollections . 
Rosalie took out the stocking as Hulda had desired , and put together on a chair at the head of the bed all the various trifles that were to fill it ; but when she had placed herself on a low seat before them , the stocking hung unregarded from her hand , and her thoughts flew away . 
But little more than one year ago , Rosalie was nerving herself for the bitter future . 
It had come , and she had met it , -- had lived through those first few months of grief not to be told nor thought of . 
But though her heart was quieter now , there were times which seemed to surpass all she had ever known for intensity of sorrow , -- when her very life seemed to die within her , and desire to live and power to do could not be found , -- when her mind dwelt with intense longing on the words , `` I shall go to her , but she shall not return to me . '' 
Yet even then God had not forgotten his child , and in the breaking light her mind rested submissively upon this other text -- `` All the days of my appointed time will I wait , till my change come . '' 
And as the last storm-clouds roll away , and are gilt with the western light , so upon all her sorrow fell this assurance , -- `` Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord -- they rest from their labours and their works do follow them . '' 
Rosalie had dwelt long upon the words , till all thought for herself was lost in joy for her mother 's safety and assured blessedness , far from the weariness that pressed upon her own heart ; and though the remembrance brought back one or two tears , they were quickly wiped away , and her whole soul was poured out in the prayer that she might one day ` go to her , ' -- and not only she , but the two dear ones yet left to her on earth . 
The desire could not be spoken -- it was the very uplifting of the heart , -- for them , for herself : and that she might faithfully perform the work that was put into her hands . 
With a look where sorrow and submission and earnest purpose and endeavour , were like the pencilling upon a flower of most delicate growth and substance , Rosalie raised her head , and saw Thornton before her : leaning against the bedpost with his arms folded , and eyeing her gravely and considerately . 
` What are you thinking of me for , Rosalie ? ' 
said Rosalie with one look at him . 
` O -- I thought I would wait for you , ' said she brightly . 
she said . 
He had named her right -- she was indeed his guardian angel . 
In the midst of all his reckless absence and waste of time , in the gayest hours of pleasure among his so-called best friends , there was still in his inmost heart the pure image of oneChristian , whose profession he knewwas not a name , -- whose walk he knew was consistent ; whose life he knew was gladly submitted to a higher will than her own . 
He was content to go on after the old fashion ; thinking Rosalie a piece of perfection , and not much concerning himself whether she were a happypiece of perfection or no . 
Here she was wont to go ! 
LittleHulda had slept away all the early part of the Newyear 's morning , and it was not till after the rest of the family had long ago breakfasted that she sat up in bed and looked about for her stocking . 
For the doctor gave leave that she should go down stairs in the afternoon , only upon the easy condition of her keeping perfectly quiet all the morning ; and now , bundled up in dressing-gown and shawls , she sat leaning on Rosalie and supported by her arms , to examine into the mysteries that had hung all night at the head of her bed . 
She was weak and pale still , and the touch of helplessness which illness had given her voice and manner went to her sister 's heart . 
When Hulda was well and playing about , recollections came less readily ; but now the season of itself brought enough -- the filling of that stocking had been bitter work , -- and when from time to time Hulda 's gentle and still weary-looking eyes were raised to her sister 's face with a smile of pleasure , or her lips put up to receive a kiss ; or her little thin hands were clasped round Rosalie 's neck , while the childish voice spoke its thanks with such an earnest yet subdued tone , -- Rosalie heard again that truth which she never could forget -- they were both motherless . 
But Rosalie -- she could love no one now as Hulda loved her , -- she had no one to look up to -- no one to fall back upon in those times of weakness and weariness that stir the strongest resolution . 
And so Hulda fell asleep and Rosalie stood watching her ; and the Newyear 's sun mounted higher and higher in the clear sky ; but ` under the sun ' there was nothing new . 
` Even sorrow shall be forgotten then , ' Rosalie thought , as she stood watching little Hulda . 
` How dost thou , fair Rosalie ? 
said Rosalie ; as the young lady after a variety of salutations held her back within gazing distance . 
` Nothing has contracted your eyes since I saw them last , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` To have a salute fired for the Macedonian , I believe , ' said Rosalie . 
` A message came for him in all haste to say that she was just coming in . ' 
said Rosalie smiling . 
And giving Rosalie a half dozen kisses Miss Arnet quitted the room . 
` O yes , Rosalie told me about that , ' said Hulda . 
` O with some scholars who are older and know less , ' said Rosalie . 
She bowed her head slightly but without looking at him , and answered , ` Even so . ' 
Her brother eyed her for a minute and then said more softly , ` What do you do so for , Alie ? 
Rosalie had listened with her face bent down and resting upon the child 's head ; drinking in the words with double pleasure from those little lips , and blessing God in her heart for the life and immortality so clearly brought to light , so simply put forth within the reach of a child 's faith . 
She glanced towards her brother , but the moodiness was greater than ever . 
Rosalie reached out her hand to the bell-cord , while Hulda exclaimed , ` Stupid ! 
` You must not expect to find everybody as fond of my talk as you are , Hulda , ' said Rosalie , with an attempt to bring down the child 's look of astonishment . 
An indignant outburst was upon the child 's lips , but the same hand was there too ; and before Hulda had made up her mind whether she was too frightened or too angry to cry , Rosalie had taken her quietly out of the room . 
Her doubts were easily resolved then , and long before they had reached the top of the stairs she was sobbing her little heart out upon Rosalie 's neck . 
And more for her sister 's wrong than her own , -- the shielding hand was kissed and cried over a great many times before Hulda 's grief would let her speak , or Rosalie 's silent agitation submit to control . 
She bent herself then to the task of calming Hulda , -- checking her displeased and exited speeches about Thornton , drying her tears , and endeavouring to make her understand that it was not always best for little girls to reprove their grown-up brothers . 
and a fresh shower of tears was bestowed upon Rosalie 's hand . 
` Why my hand was not hurt , ' said her sister . 
` O you are wrong , dear child , ' said Rosalie , -- ` you must love him and try to please him . 
The child looked up -- inquiringly , -- as if she had detected tears in her sister 's voice ; but Rosalie 's face was calm , though very , very grave . 
` If you will jump down from my lap and ring the bell , ' she said , ` Martha shall bring your tea up here , and then we will talk and you shall go to bed . ' 
` You aint afraid of getting fat , Miss Rosalie , be you ? ' 
she said , -- ` cause you 'll be in no danger this some time -- that a brave man could n't face , as Tom says . 
The evening had worn away , and Thornton and the newspaper still sat vis-à-vis at the table , when the door was quietly opened and Rosalie came in . 
He heard her well enough , but the debating mood he had been in resolved itself for the moment into a committee of pride and false shame -- therefore he did not speak nor look up . 
Neither when her hand was laid on his forehead -- and its touch said a great deal to him , as the fingers stroked back and played for a moment with his hair -- did he see fit to notice it . 
` Thornton , ' said she softly , ` I wish you would put up the paper and talk to me . ' 
` I have no lecture to give , ' she said gently . 
` Yes , ' Rosalie answered , as she knelt at his side with her hand on his shoulder . 
said Thornton , glancing at her in spite of himself . 
` Because you had said it all to yourself before you came home , ' she answered steadily and without looking at him . 
The strong contrast of the quiet rest of Rosalie 's hope with his own restless cravings , had wrought upon a mind dissatisfied with itself till for a moment he was willing to make her dissatisfied ; but another feeling had wrought too in prompting the disclosure -- the consciousness that she thought he had been more faithful to her wishes than was the truth . 
Therefore when she told him that he was displeased with himself , no word of equivocation passed his lips ; though he coloured deeply . 
` No , ' she said in the same quiet way , and resting her cheek on his shoulder . 
` You remind me , ' she said with a little smile which came and went instantly , ` of some one who said he would give to a certain charity if no one asked him to give . 
He took his light and went thoughtfully up stairs , but Rosalie 's door arrested him , -- he opened it softly and went in . 
See here , Hulda -- I do n't want two guardians , and I think on the whole I prefer Rosalie to your little ladyship , -- so do you never take it upon you to give me advice . 
` Never mind -- in future you must deliver your opinions of me and my conduct to Rosalie , and she may repeat what of them she likes . 
Where is she this morning ? ' 
She was at his side , even as he spoke ; with a face so fair , so shadowless except for a little anxious feeling when she first looked at him -- a half glance of inquiry as it were -- that Thornton was too touched to speak ; and taking both her hands , he kissed her first on one cheek and then on the other , wishing from his heart that he had ever done more to fill the vacant place of which that black dress spoke . 
And meeting her visiter at the door , Rosalie explained to her how she thought the warmest room was the best that morning . 
` It is particularly cold at this time in the morning , ' said Rosalie , as she brought Miss Morsel round to the side of the table next the fire . 
` Well , a single cup -- ' said Miss Morsel , her face brightening up under bright influences -- for it was a wonderfully pleasant thing to be so gently put into that comfortable chair by the fire . 
said Rosalie smiling . 
` But here Rosalie and I have a family Miss Morsel , and if either of us should get married it would break it up at once . ' 
` Why , not to go any further , ' said Thornton , ` Rosalie is so fond of having the upper hand , that she never would endure to see my wife manage me . ' 
said Rosalie with a kind smile . 
` I will try to have it just as good whenever you will come and breakfast with us , ' said Rosalie as she shook hands with her poor little guest . 
` Not mine , ' said Thornton , -- ` Rosalie does everything good that is done in this house . 
` It was probably a woman , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
Rosalie laid her hand on his cheek , with a laughing look that said his face was ever so little case-hardened . 
But with her usual quick desire that her brother should not think her sad and wrapped up in her own thoughts , Rosalie came resolutely out of them , and exerted herself to talk and be pleased . 
` Rosalie , there comes your friend Mrs. Raynor . ' 
The smile of the good quakeress to Rosalie was refreshing to see -- so very bright and heartfelt . 
` That is unfortunate , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` You always will look so pleased to see her , ' he said gloomily . 
` So I am -- I like her very much . ' 
And she looks at you just as I saw you once when you were a little child look at a canary bird in the hands of a school boy . 
` The next time you come out , ' said Rosalie raising her bright eyes to his face , ` I 'll write a placard for the front of your cap -- ` Ladies will please keep their eyes off . '' 
` She has called me a poor child very often , but not from any such reason , ' said Rosalie , as the thought of the true one fell like a shadow upon her face . 
` And she knows very little of me , Thornton , if she thinks that I wish myself out of your sleigh , or that I have one thought in my heart about you I am unwilling you should know . ' 
said Rosalie turning a startled look upon him . 
The sleigh with black horses was at the door in five minutes after their own arrival , and Rosalie was called down to see her friend ` for a single moment only , ' before she had time to do more than throw off her wrappers . 
And when she came into the parlour , her hair a little brushed back by the wind , and the glow of exercise and fresh air yet in her cheeks , the good quakeress took her in her arms , and kissed her more than once before she spoke . 
` I was so glad to see thee out , ' she said , -- ` it is so good for thee . 
``` I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction ' '' -- said her friend tenderly . 
He hath thine eyes , Rosalie , but more self-willed . 
But Rosalie 's smile was like nobody but herself . 
she said , as she sat on a low seat by her friend , looking up at her with the intense pleasure of having even for a moment comfort and counsel from one older than herself . 
What for , the quakeress did not say , but she rose and took Rosalie in her arms as she had done before . 
Rosalie thought , as she came back from the front door and went slowly up stairs to dress . 
And then she remembered , `` I had fainted , unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living . '' 
She is going away for a few days . ' 
` Your canary bird is much obliged to you for being glad when she is sorry , ' said his sister smiling . 
There was enough , now ; but after a moment 's struggle with herself Rosalie looked up and answered cheerfully , ` I will go with you wherever you wish me to go . ' 
Eveningfound Rosalie alone in the parlour . 
So deep was Rosalie in her own reflections -- devising ways and means to make herself more agreeable and home more attractive -- that a ring at the door was unnoticed ; and it was not till Tom announced , ` A gentleman , ma'am , ' that she recollected how much rather she would be alone . 
For a moment , in the darkness , Rosalie looked with some doubt at the stranger ; but she had quickly met him half way , with a look of great pleasure and the exclamation , ` Mr. Raynor ! ' 
The heart 's cry of sorrow was suppressed , but it was with almost passionate bitterness that Rosalie threw herself down on a seat , exclaiming , ` Well ? 
-- it is well with her ! 
He understood it all then , -- his eye took note of her dress -- he knew what some lost letters would have told him ; but shocked , grieved , as he was , a few minutes passed before he knew what to say or how to speak it . 
She did not move nor raise her head . 
Mr. Raynor turned quickly , and taking a chair at some distance from Rosalie he intercepted the little intruder , very much to her dissatisfaction . 
` Let me go , sir , if you please , ' she said ; struggling , though very politely , to get away from the arm that was round her . 
` Not quite yet , ' he said , gently placing her upon his lap and kissing her . 
` Does Miss Rosalie keep you so busy ? 
` O no , sir , thatis n't the reason -- she 'd let me play a great deal . 
Neither did Rosalie , whose eyes were yet shielded by her hand . 
` You were expected earlier in the winter , Mr. Raynor , ' said Rosalie , as if she had a mind they should at least not be dwelt upon . 
` Yes , much earlier , ' he said sitting down by her . 
` But I am not accustomed to hear ` Mr. Raynor ' from your lips , Miss Rosalie , -- before I went away it was ` Mr. Henry . '' 
` O that was to distinguish you from Mr. Penn , ' she said with a little flush that came somewhat unwittingly . 
She did not look to see what he meant -- the colour that came over her face seemed to say she would rather not know ; it was more of distress than embarrassment ; and she went on somewhat hastily , as if her object were but to talk -- not to say any particular thing . 
How well Thornton felt that whatever cordiality there might be in the salutation was for Rosalie 's brother -- not for him . 
Then Rosalie came to his side , and linking her arm in his -- caressingly , as he felt -- she said , ` Thornton , can not you persuade Mr. Raynor to drink tea with us instead of going home to take it alone ? ' 
Thornton felt that she stood by him , whoever else did not ; and with a blessing in his heart that his lips did not speak , he gave the invitation -- as he would have done anything else that she had asked at that moment . 
he said when Rosalie came down . 
I do wish you would teach her to hold her tongue . 
Her way of saying things is perfectly spiteful . ' 
` But , ' said Rosalie with a little hesitation , ` it does not matter what is done with the actions that oneself approves , -- and the others can rarely be kept secret . ' 
Had she done wrong to say that ? 
had she gone too far ? 
She did not know -- she could not resolve . 
Between the fear of displeasing him , of weakening her influence , and the earnest desire to speak a word for the truth whenever it might be spoken , Rosalie was often at a loss ; and the eyes whose keenness he condemned had wept many tears before Thornton had gone far in his anger . 
She had in a measure got accustomed to the old grievous things , but she felt now as if more were coming upon her , -- a sort of undefined perception that her own trials were getting entwined with those of other people . 
But one thing seemed clear , and that was her duty . 
She thought long and earnestly of those words of Rutherford , `` It is possible your success answer not your desire in this worthy cause : what then ? 
And striving to let her will as her hope , rest there , sleep had passed its quieting hand over her face long before her brother returned and came softly in to look at her . 
Fullydetermined that if her brother had any cause of complaint against her it should not go unatoned for , Rosalie 's first desire the next morning was to see him . 
-- she thought . 
But he did not know -- he could not guess that of all the cares upon her heart his welfare was the chiefest , -- that for his sake she would have gone through any possible difficulty or danger . 
Sometimes she half thought he did know it , -- that her love was appreciated if not quite returned ; and sometimes she did not know what to think . 
In this mood she got up as early as the tardy daylight would permit , and dressing herself softly that she might not wake Hulda , stood leaning against the door-post with clasped hands and a very grave , quiet face , waiting to hear him go down . 
She was not sure but this was one of his mornings for an early drill . 
The step came at last , and no sooner had it fairly past her door than her light foot followed . 
Had she mistaken another step for his ? 
He came behind her at the moment , and with his lips upon her forehead inquired , ` What in the world she was after , at that time in the morning ? ' 
` O , I was after you -- ' she said , looking up at him and then as quick down again ; for something in his eyes had brought her very heart welling up to her own . 
said Thornton , as he drew her to a seat by him on the sofa . 
said Rosalie as she ran up stairs and stooped down by the little night-gowned and night-capped figure . 
` I did not ask him , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
Miss Morsel indeed , having watched the whole preliminaries from the first jingle of the sleigh bells , and having got very warm with anxiety lest the snow bank should prove insurmountable , was now equally cold with standing at her own door ; and she would certainly have saved Rosalie the trouble of knocking had not elegant propriety , to her mind , forbidden it . 
The chairs were rush-bottomed , and begunto be cushioned ; and a little pine box by the fire held a supply of fuel -- Rosalie was glad that she did not know for how long . 
said poor little Miss Morsel , taking hold of both Rosalie 's hands and looking up into her face . 
said Miss Morsel in the same undertone to Rosalie . 
Never mind her , dear , -- just you sit down and tell me about the battles . ' 
It was so queer , altogether , that Rosalie was somewhat divided between the desire to laugh and the desire to cry . 
` O I spoke to a friend of mine about it , ' said Rosalie . 
` No wonder it got done , then , ' said Miss Morsel , with a loving look up at her guest . 
` I thought , ' said Rosalie softly , ` I thought you were taking better care of yourself , -- you promised that you would . ' 
` Take good enough care , my dear -- oh yes , so I do ; but you see the thing is , ma 's liable to be sick , of course -- any body is ; and if she is to be sick I should like her to have just what she 's a mind to call for , -- and the things would n't be few nor far between , neither . 
` But let her have it now -- she shall never miss it , nor you either . ' 
Everybody ought to live on his income , -- and my income comes in regularly , and when it do n't I 'll let you know . 
` O no , it is not so many weeks , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` It would be easy not to murmur if we thought more of the promised land and less of the wilderness , ' said Rosalie with a half-checked sigh . 
said Rosalie , ` I want you to go and take a sleigh ride . 
O yes -- I can leave her , -- Seraphina Wells 'll come in and sit here -- ma likes Seraphina , -- do n't you ma ? 
` That 's the very reason why you should go , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
said Rosalie , coming close to her chair . 
` There is a better world , ' said Rosalie gently , -- ` do you want that ? ' 
` Yes , it is much easier than to follow them , ' said Rosalie , -- ` I know that . 
Rosalie had stooped down and laid her hand upon the arm of the chair while she was speaking ; and now one of the old shrivelled hands was laid tremblingly upon hers . 
` That 's true -- that about the angels , ' she said in a shaking voice , ` but I 'm not one of them they should come to . 
` Yes I 'll go -- ' said Miss Morsel , coming back with her bonnet on . 
The door was quickly opened , and merely inquiring if Miss Arnet was at home , Rosalie sought the young lady up-stairs . 
There she sat in her dressing-room , ensconced in wrapper and cushions , -- a book in her hand , her hair in the hands of her maid . 
Book and maid were at once dismissed ; and seating Rosalie among the cushions , Miss Arnet stood before her to talk and arrange her hair at the same time . 
` Truly , the simple desire to see you , ' said Rosalie . 
` Then lie still there and go to sleep -- I sha 'n' t let Rosalie go for one good hour . ' 
Marion sprang up , and crossing the room to where Rosalie sat she said in a kind of indignant undertone , ` Is thatthe way I am understood ? 
Rosalie ! 
But the word was spoken with such evident pain , that Miss Arnet put her arms about Rosalie and tried every word of soothing she could think of . 
` Yes , quite well , ' Rosalie said . 
Speak out Rosalie never did , now ; but the sorrow that for a few moments held her in its strong grasp , told of heart sickness such as Marion could hardly comprehend . 
` I do n't know where my common sense went to this morning , ' she said , when Rosalie had once looked up and given the assurance that there was nothing new the matter . 
I should think you would hate me Rosalie , for bringing this upon you . ' 
And as her face once more rested on her hands , Rosalie added , ``` Let thy mercy , O Lord , be upon us , according as we hope in thee ! ' '' 
` Chose to gamble -- ' said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie , -- ` what is the verdict ? ' 
He was looking down , somewhat sullenly ; and neither by word nor look did he answer her words , nor the hand that drew back the hair from his forehead as caressingly as if he had been a child , nor the earnest eyes that he knew were studying his face . 
In his secret mind , Thornton felt very much as if he were Captain Lewis just hearing Major Bankhead dismiss him the service , -- but if Rosalie 's power was strong so also was his resistance . 
Putting his arm round Rosalie he drew her head down to his shoulder again . 
Rosalie went on . 
` You are not responsible for what I choose to give my guests -- ' said her brother . 
She quietly repeated , ` I will not countenance it . ' 
said Thornton looking at her curiously ` What voice has a canary bird in the matter ? 
said Thornton , but there was a touch of tenderness in the words that thrilled through her . 
She smiled slightly and shook her head , but the eyes went down as gravely as before . 
The little smile came again , but the eyes were full that she raised to his face as she said , ` I know how I should feel if I were the sister of one of them at home . ' 
He went forth on his pleasure seeking , and Rosalie muffled herself up and set out on her expedition alone . 
Rosalie would have been glad of her brother 's arm , but it was not there and she passed on alone . 
In one of the poor streets of the city lay the object of her walk , -- a house as poor as the street , with tenants yet poorer . 
Another woman now entered from the back room , and courtesied to Rosalie but seemed as if she could not speak . 
said Rosalie as she sat down in the chair placed for her . 
Rosalie inquired of the other woman . 
What words of comfort she could Rosalie spoke , and after promising to send a good physician she asked further concerning their wants . 
Rosalie left the poor little abode , and remembered neither wind nor cold till a long walk through both had brought her to a very different establishment . 
she said to the servant who opened the door . 
Rosalie briefly preferred her request . 
` You see sir , ' she added , ` my trust among physicians is even less extensive than my acquaintance , -- so I was forced to come to you . ' 
` It is every one 's business to see that they do not die therefrom without help , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` Take yourself off , Miss Rosalie , and do n't come here fooling old doctors . 
But Rosalie negatived that and moved towards the door . 
said the doctor following her . 
The hour was late and dinner waiting when Rosalie reached home . 
The style and address of the one were peculiar , and Rosalie thought she remembered having seen it before , -- thought she recollected that a similar invitation -LRB- as this looked to be -RRB- had kept her brother out much later than usual one night , and had been followed by days of peculiar distaste for home and her society . 
She would have given anything to put the note in that bright blaze before her , ere Thornton came in . 
For a moment the temptation was so strong that she thought she would do it , -- thought she would risk anything to keep him even for once out of bad company . 
But she remembered that underhand dealings became not her , and could not benefit him in the long run , -- she must let things have their way , and patiently wait and hope . 
With a half sigh she heard her brother come in and felt the note taken from her hand . 
He only kissed me and asked for Rosalie . ' 
` Very rhetorically expressed , ' said Thornton ; ` and quite in Rosalie 's style . 
I should think she had been giving you lessons . ' 
` She gives me a great many that I do not take , ' said Marion with a sudden change of expression -- ` I wish I had ever been more ready to learn ! 
` Did either of you ever hear , ' said Rosalie , ` of the man who was so anxious to bring down a bird that when other shot failed he fired all his treasures into the tree-top ? 
An hour passed by , and Rosalie had gone up to her room , and was beginning the business of the toilette in a very leisurely and reflective sort of way , when Martha Jumps came in . 
But do make haste , Miss Rosalie , because -- ' ` Because what ? ' 
Miss Rosalie ! 
` You have brought your mother back with you , ' said Rosalie . 
` Certainly -- or rather she has brought me . 
But she was a little fatigued with the journey , and has not been able to go out since ; or you would have seen her . ' 
` So I understood -- so she said in the note she was so kind as to write me . ' 
` Why was it , Miss Rosalie ? 
` O no -- ' she said earnestly . 
But Mr. Raynor ' -- ` But Miss Rosalie , if you please , I am not ready to quit the subject . 
She sat silently listening to him , with a face grave and quiet , as if her mind was but half upon what he said , -- as if she knew it already -- as if some emergency which she had expected and tried to ward off had come , and she knew what her answer must be , and was trying to strengthen her woman 's heart and woman 's voice to give it . 
He did not like it now at all -- he would rather have seen herselfmore present to her mind -- her colour deeper , and her self-control less . 
I have told you my thoughts , dear Rosalie -- tell me yours . ' 
` But Rosalie ! 
` A good one , if you will take the right point of view , ' she said with the same steadiness , except that his look or his words had somewhat moved her lips from their composure . 
It does notfollow , dear Rosalie , that of two people who love you with all their hearts you should choose the one who has always had you -- unless he has all your heart as well . ' 
Forgive me , dear Rosalie -- I do not say it in unkindness -- but ought you not to take some care of yourself ? 
` He has nothing to do with it , ' she said quickly -- ` at least not in the way you suppose . 
But Mr. Raynor -- ' She paused a moment and then went on . 
Walking as if the disturbed spirit could not subside , and without once looking towards Rosalie . 
` You are displeased , Mr. Raynor , ' she said at length . 
He came to the end of the sofa where she sat , and took her hand in both of his . 
If you could see yourself with the eyes of a third person , Rosalie , you would understand one of the reasons why I want you to be my wife , much better than you can now . 
` I dare not put my own earthly happiness , nor even yours , dear Rosalie , in competition with another 's eternal welfare . 
` If there had been another you should never have heard this , ' she said . 
He stood silent and grave , as if the struggle were in his mind yet , till she rose up and said , ` Good bye , Mr. Raynor -- you must not stay here any longer -- and for the future we must be only common friends . ' 
He went -- and as the door closed behind him Rosalie felt as if she had taken leave of the sunshine of life , and turned her face unto the shadows . 
Somewhat wondering with herself what could have made Mrs. Raynor go in and wait for her , Rosalie mounted the steps , and her wonder was not lessened to find Thornton in the parlour . 
The good quakeress spoke not a word till she had kissed her first upon one cheek and then on the other , even more tenderly than usual . 
` I have made acquaintance with thy brother , ' she said then -- ` I would know everybody that loves thee and whom thou dost love . ' 
` In this case , Mrs. Raynor , Rosalie loves somebody very different from herself . ' 
Mrs. Raynor looked as if she knew it full well -- or at least as if she thought the people who resembled Rosalie were few . 
` To Rosalie 's pet , Mrs. Raynor -- I am fonder of grown-up humanity . ' 
And yet , Rosalie , she demurreth about leaving thee even for one day . ' 
` No , ' said Hulda , ` but Rosalie told me about them . 
And Thornton 's not at home you know generally when I want to be carried -- but Rosalie always is . 
She says gentlemen ca n't always be at home so much as ladies . 
But she do n't hold me quite as well as you do , Mr. Raynor . ' 
` Thornton says that 's what mamma used to do with Rosalie , ' said Hulda , whose little avenues of thought all ran down to the same stronghold of love and confidence . 
` I do n't remember her a great deal , ' said Hulda -- ` I believe I get her confused with Rosalie . ' 
` I believe so -- ' said Hulda -- ` Rosalie told me a great deal about it . ' 
That is Rosalie 's ; and it was the very prettiest one they had ; and I told Mr. Raynor so , and yet he would cut it . ' 
I shall dine out of town to-day , Rosalie , so you need not wait for me . ' 
she said as she rose and followed him out of the room . 
Her look half inclined him to come to dinner as well , but he only laughed and said , ` You had better not ask me , because if I come I may bring you your hands full . ' 
` Bring anything in the world that will make home pleasant to you , ' she said . 
` A most unhappy quotation in this case , ' she said with a slight smile . 
Rosalie sat alone in her room , half reading , half dreaming in the warm spring air of the afternoon , -- now applying herself to her book and now parleying with some old remembrance or association ; sometimes raising her eyes to take in most unworldly pleasure from nature 's own messengers , and then trying to bring her mind back to more fixedness of thought . 
But a sunbeam that at length fell on her book wound about her its silken bands of spirit influence ; and laying her folded hands in the warm light , Rosalie leaned her head back and let the sunbeam take her whither it would . 
The camellia was there too , and one look Rosalie gave it ; and then turning her head towards the window and leaning it back as before , her eye again followed the sunbeam -- but this time upward , -- her face a little graver perhaps -- a little more removed from earth 's affairs , but no less quiet than it had been before . 
And proving the truth of George Herbert 's words , `` Then by a sunbeam I will climb to thee '' The ray had done its work and gone , and ` the lesser light ' had held forth her sceptre , when Martha Jumps , whose head and shoulders had been enjoying the afternoon out of an upper window , suddenly rushed into the room . 
And Miss Rosalie , you may n't be conscious that your hair is walking down the back of your neck . 
But in spite of this announcement , Rosalie 's eyes and mind went out of the window again so soon as she was alone . 
For sorrow had put her out of society , and joy had not as yet offered his hand to lead her back ; and the gentle spirit which had once amused itself with and among people , now found their gay words but as the music of ` him that singeth songs to a heavy heart . ' 
Her mind found rest and comfort in but one thing ; and these visiters -- ` they knew it not , neither did they regard it . ' 
And she must not only go among them , but must go as a Christian -- to take and maintain that stand alone . 
To do nothing unbecoming her profession , -- to be neither ashamed of it nor too forward in making it known , -- to be ready always to speak the truth with boldness and yet with judgment . 
For a moment it tried her , -- for a moment she shrank from the trial ; and then throwing off care and weakness upon the strong hand that could provide for both , she got up and lit a candle and began to arrange her hair . 
Thornton came up stairs and through the open door so quietly while she was thus employed , that the first notice of his presence was its reflection in the glass before her . 
There is nothing dull about you , ' said he passing his hand over her hair . 
said Rosalie smiling . 
` The power of attraction , Mr. Penn , ' said Rosalie . 
` Drawn and quartered -- in a pleasant sense , ' said one of the gentlemen , as Mr. Penn threw himself down on the sofa by Rosalie . 
` I hope not , ' said Rosalie , while the others laughed and Mr. Clinton remarked , ` You ought to be able to answer that yourself , Penn. ' ` Could n't trust myself , that 's all , ' replied Mr. Penn , ` for in the present state of my eyesight it really strikes me with astonishment how anybody could go to Europe . 
said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie . 
` I want -- Rosalie , ' said the child abstractedly , and taking another survey of the room . 
said Rosalie . 
` Precisely , Miss Clyde -- round more than one . 
She was a sloop of war -- or a frigate -- I do n't know which , -- only I know that she carried four times as many guns as we did . 
said Rosalie . 
` Yes , Miss Clyde -- it struck us -- that if she was going to spit fire at that rate we had better stop , -- just to save her from spontaneous combustion . 
So we did stop , and gave her as good as she sent . ' 
And you see the Wild Cat had set her mouth for our poor Squirrel , -- and what could four guns do against eighteen , after all ? ' 
` If they had not come you would have been an Englishman yourself , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
said Rosalie as Mr. Penn paused . 
` That was brave , ' said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie when the little buzz of comment and remark had died away . 
It was spoken with flashing eyes ; and was heard by Rosalie with fluttering lip and heart , and in deep silence by the rest . 
Rosalie 's coffee came as near being nectar that night as human coffee could ; and so far as she was better worth looking at than the Queen of Spades -- so far as her voice and words were truer and purer than any toast that would have been honoured with three times three -- so far Thornton could not help being satisfied . 
And what with coffee and music , Mr. Penn 's sallies and Rosalie 's skill , the evening was lively enough to satisfy anybody . 
` I know one thing , ' said Tom , -- ` I wish Miss Rosalie 'd get sick . ' 
But I say , Tom Skiddy -- what would you do suppos 'n Miss Rosalie should take sick ? ' 
` Does thee think Rosalie will go with that boy ? ' 
Meanwhile Mr. Penn presented himself to the assembled gaze of Rosalie , Thornton , and Dr. Buffem ; for if the old Doctor felt himself in want of tea when in Rosalie 's neighbourhood , he often went to get it from her hand , -- or as Thornton declared , for the express purpose of snubbing him if he was at home and finding it out if he was not . 
` And so you have not been out , Miss Rosalie ? 
` The moon is not favourable to illuminations , sir , ' said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie smiling -- ` all the illuminators I suspect , and perhaps some other people . ' 
The gentlemen laughed , but Rosalie did not put her thoughts into words . 
` I have not the least idea , ' said Rosalie . 
The Doctor finished his cup of tea , and then rising from the table and planting himself upon the hearth rug , he repeated with many a flourish : ` Goodnight Miss Rosalie -- you 've been the death of two of my patients already , keeping me here so long . 
And upon that promise Rosalie went . 
The transparencies shone forth , and the spectators cheered , and the different national airs floated sweetly down from the City Hall on the night wind , as drummers and all the sons of Œolus did their best ; as Rosalie with her two supporters moved slowly down to get a better view of the Park Theatre . 
Rosalie laughed and released him , then and afterwards , whenever his feelings required ; and would gladly have let him go altogether that she might be the more sure of Thornton . 
It was rather hard work , and once Rosalie was nearly borne back by the down tide of population ; when her other hand was taken and put on somebody 's arm , and a quiet ` good evening , Miss Rosalie , ' announced Mr. Raynor . 
If Miss Rosalie felt relief , so did Mr. Penn. . 
` I dare say she will -- she was always so good , ' said Penn ; and darting off without more ado , he left Rosalie to wonder that one man 's way through the world should be so different from another 's , -- the crowd touched her no more that night . 
` Do you know , Miss Rosalie , ' said Mr. Raynor , as he stood with his hand on the bell , ` that in this good city you need better protection on some nights than on others ? ' 
` Yes , ' she said quickly , ` but -- ' and then checking herself , she simply added , ` I know it . ' 
Mr. Raynor looked at her for a moment -- for every pane of glass in the whole house gave forth light ; but as if he guessed what she did not tell him he asked no further questions . 
But Rosalie never does make disagreeable speeches , so I 'm quite willing she should come ; especially as she 's so grave now and quiet . 
Miss Clinton wondered howit had survived , when she saw Rosalie enter the room and perceived that the engrossing power was in full force . 
` Sometimes -- ' Mr. Raynor said , with a glance at the court just then holden by Rosalie . 
-- Miss Rosalie -- enchanting princess -- `` Queen of my soul ! 
` No indeed , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
said the doctor gravely -- ` a great case ! 
said Rosalie . 
Now Miss Rosalie , I 'm going to prescribe for you ; and do you mind and follow orders . 
said Rosalie , as the doctor began to walk her about the room in a somewhat rummaging style . 
he said , bringing Rosalie with a short turn into the library . 
-- Fact , and no fib , Miss Rosalie -- I declare your eye is as good as a policeman ! 
said Mr. Raynor , when the proposed transfer had been made . 
` How came she to be under my care ? 
` Patients usually seek the doctor , ' said Mr. Raynor with a slight smile . 
` She never does , ' said Dr. Buffem . 
` Great peculiarity in her case ! 
said Rosalie , trying to rouse herself and shake off the influence of two or three of the evening 's events . 
` Rosalie , I thought you wanted to go home so early . ' 
` Late for you , little precision . ' 
` But she can not go yet ! ' 
And Thornton had no resource but to let him have it , and Rosalie too , for the time . 
Winterand night reigned together ; but while the night looked down with steady gaze upon the pranks of her colleague , winter ran on in his career , and caught nothing of her still influence . 
Then it roared in the chimney , and then sighed itself away as in penitence for its misdeeds ; but in reality it was but waiting for breath and a fresh partner . 
The moon was making her way westward , bearing steadily on through the clouds which came up from some exhaustless storehouse in the northwest : looking dark at the horizon , but lighter and more flaky beneath the moon 's inspection , and sometimes speeding away in such haste that she rode clear and unincumbered for a few minutes , till the next battalion came up . 
` Wo n't you , Rosalie ? ' 
But Rosalie did not answer ; for something in Hulda 's salutation , or in the way it was met , or in the sudden relief she felt , let not word and thought work together . 
` I shall not go until you do , ' said he quietly . 
Rosalie hesitated and again repeated her request . 
And wrapping Hulda more closely in her shawl , he added , ` I shall wait for you , -- therefore please Miss Rosalie give your orders as soon as may be , and let us be off before we have any more light on the subject . 
` Where is Miss Rosalie , Martha ? ' 
-- She aint in this basket , Mr. Raynor -- if that 's what you mean . 
Rosalie was up-stairs , quietly giving directions to Tom and the firemen , -- they , swarthy , smoky , black-capped and red-shirted figures , -- she in one of the wrappers which Thornton admired so much , -- delicate , white-handed ; and white-cheeked too , for that matter , with the fatigue of excitement . 
` If you have any doubts left , ' Mr. Raynor said as he approached her , ` I will resolve them . 
And before Rosalie could attempt any organized plan of resistance it was too late , -- she was out of the house and passing through the crowd , and then in the carriage by Hulda . 
In two minutes Hulda was asleep ; nor did she give other note of the change than a sigh , when Mr. Raynor laid her -- a softly breathing and sleeping little figure , upon the sofa in the library at the ` Quakerage . ' 
He stayed only to place Rosalie in an easychair at her side , before he sprang up stairs . 
Rosalie felt in a kind of maze , -- so swiftly had the last hour sunk down , and the little heap of sand seemed of such strange particles . 
It rose and fell once or twice , flickering fantastically about , and then a quick step was on the stairs and her dream vanished . 
He stopped and spoke a word or two , but Rosalie did not hear his answer ; and in a moment the front door opened and closed . 
` And how sorry I am to do anything to give you any trouble , ' said Rosalie as she returned her friend 's greeting . 
bless thee , ' said the good quakeress , ` I would I could keep thee here always ! 
she added anxiously , bending down to look at the sweet face that was looking up at her . 
But Rosalie 's eyes fell again , and she shook her head . 
The quakeress stood gently smoothing down her hair . 
But come , love , and trouble not thy mind about anything . ' 
Rosalie carried her little charge to Mrs. Raynor 's dressing room , and covered her up on the sofa there ; and when Mrs. Raynor had left her she sat down on a low seat by Hulda , and laying her head on the same sofa cushion she fell asleep , with the first streaks of daylight falling across her face . 
Rosalie established among the quakers , and the house made uninhabitable . 
They played about a shawl which lay on the sofa , in a kind of loving way as if they rejoiced to see it there -- which Thornton did not . 
It was Rosalie 's shawl , lying just where she had thrown it off the night before , and looking as her brother fancied , just like her . 
Thornton felt as if his canary bird 's cage was broke , and she away in her natural element . 
But you see Rosalie was awake last night , and so -- pussy ! 
So did Hulda ; and looked from Rosalie up to Mr. Raynor 's face without in the least knowing what an appeal she brought , nor how readily it was answered . 
` And then ? ' 
` Do as a shadow does -- ' she said , raising her bright eyes to his . 
` You are a little like a shadow , ' Thornton said with a sobering face , as his arm went round her and felt what a slight creature was within its clasp . 
From one hasty glance at the speaker , a glance in which his old prejudice melted away very fast , Thornton 's eyes came back to Rosalie 's bowed head ; on which the sunbeams rested with no fear of defilement . 
Not words could speak the mind 's enwrapped earnestness as did every line of her figure . 
Even Thornton and Penn Raynor were quiet , against their will ; and when Hulda slipped away from Rosalie 's side , and stooping down on the rug began to stroke the cat , -- her little hand went softly from head to tail , and the knight 's loud responsive purr was rather startling . 
And as if he meant to claim his full prerogative as host , Mr. Raynor gave no one else a chance to take Rosalie to the breakfast-room . 
An arrangement to which Thornton submitted with small inward graciousness ; only consoling himself with its banishment of what traces of fatigue the night had left on her cheeks , and the quick return there of the exiles of the House of Lancaster . 
But if he could have had his will as he walked along behind her , Rosalie 's hand would have been quickly dislodged from its resting place , and she and her companion put anywhere in the world but side by side . 
Thornton was even jealous of the very light hold her hand seemed to have , -- why could she not take his arm as she would that of any one else ? 
said the quakeress with a wistful look at Rosalie . 
` I will not run such a risk , ' said Rosalie , -- ` I shall certainly go at once . ' 
` Mother , ' said Mr. Henry Raynor , ` here is little Hulda waiting with all patience for some kind hand to give her a glass of milk , and Miss Rosalie 's cup is in like need of attention . 
Rosalie laughed and Thornton confessed he was in the condition of the storekeeper . 
Not that I should n't enjoy your presence immensely , of course , but then I 'm sure you would enjoy my absence a great deal more . 
But though Rosalie steadily refused to go to Mrs. Arnet 's , or indeed to stay anywhere but with her brother , she must stay where she was until he should find rooms . 
And resting quietly in a great chair before the library fire Thornton left her . 
` I shall be back in an hour , Alie , ' he said , ` and until then -- ' ` Until then what ? ' 
` O nothing much , -- take care of yourself , that 's all . ' 
She smiled and told him she was safe enough there , with a look so clear and sweet , that he would almost have given her carte-blanche to do what she liked . 
The ladies were greatly concerned ; but being told the family received no hurt , they were extremely glad ; but being informed that we were almost killed by the fright , they were vastly sorry ; but hearing that we had a very good night , they were extremely glad again . 
IfRosalie had left a clue by which her friends could find her , she would have had little time to rest that morning . 
said Rosalie . 
` Many thanks to you , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` I know not , ' said Rosalie . 
` I presume you did , ' said Rosalie . 
` Why did n't you come to our house last night , Rosalie ? ' 
` We will bear thee company if awake , and sleeping Rosalie will give thee hers . ' 
` O yes Miss Morsel , Rosalie 's here , in the library , -- why do n't you go in ? ' 
said the child opening the door and marching in herself ; while Miss Morsel followed with a helpless air of intrusion , and returned Mr. Raynor 's bow and smile as if they had been in the highest degree reproving , and she had deserved it . 
` I am sure I never thought such a thing , ' said poor Miss Morsel , who having by this time got hold of Rosalie 's hand felt encouraged to speak , -- ` never ! 
said Rosalie . 
` I always thought so , ' said Miss Morsel , -- ` ma do n't She looks upon it more in the shape of a plaster . 
to think of your house , Miss Rosalie ! 
` Why our house is not burnt , ' said Rosalie , -- ` it is only scorched and smoked a little . ' 
But I thought ma 'd go off the hooks ; for nothing would coax her primarily that it was n't our own bed-room . 
Though as I told her , it did n't signify if it was ; but she could n't view it in that light . ' 
` The light of the fire was stronger , ' said Rosalie . 
` It was strong enough , I 'm sure , ' said the little guest , ` and I told ma we ought to be crying our eyes out , and not sit there looking at it . 
` I should be very sorry to have you cry your eyes out for me , ' said Rosalie ; her lips just moving with the kindly smile that went round the circle . 
I never wished I had a place of my own as I did this morning -- never ! ' 
Rosalie made no reply but by holding out her hand , which Miss Morsel fastened upon with great energy . 
` You do n't feel like going through fire and water , neither , ' she said , giving it a good squeeze . 
` Not much , I think , ' said Rosalie . 
If anybody was to come and cut my throat you know , I should think it quite remarkable to be blown up in a steam-boat at the same time . 
Ma says it would n't surprise her in the least to have forty things done to her at once , but it would me . ' 
` I fear me thy mother studieth not to be quiet , ' said the quakeress , when Miss Morsel paused for breath . 
` Well you see that I am safe , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` Thee has one friend , Rosalie , ' said the quakeress , as the door closed upon Miss Morsel . 
` But lest she should have more than one , ' said Mr. Raynor , ` or to prove that she has more than one -- whichever you like , mother , -- I wish you would give orders that she is not to see another until night . ' 
said the quakeress . 
And left alone in that pleasant light , one feeling after another folded down like the petals of a veritable rose , Rosalie slept . 
Even dinner was made to wait ; and still `` Nature 's soft nurse '' kept Rosalie in dreamless sleep . 
Art thou rested ? ' 
` Yes , I believe so , ' Rosalie said , as she sat up , and pushing back her hair discovered that there was another person in the room . 
` Nay , I said not so , ' she replied ; ` but however thee knows white muslin is not very thick . 
Sit thee still dear Rosalie , while I call thy sister . 
She is at play yet but hath asked for thee many times . ' 
And as she opened the door and passed out , Mr. Raynor came close to Rosalie 's chair . 
If you will stay here Rosalie , I will be as completely out of the way as Penn offered to be ; and no one but you shall know the reason . ' 
` And no one could it trouble as it would me , ' she said gently , and looking up but to thank him . 
Pleasant was the dinner , with its varied talk among characters so different and yet in points so much alike , -- with its staid quaker servants and brilliant dishes of flowers , -- with its general atmosphere of refinement and good taste ; and around all , the freshening influence of a politeness that was not cut and dried and made to order , but which came from the depths of kind and true feeling . 
It rested Rosalie more than her sleep had done ; and half making her forget all painful thoughts of the past or the present , left her free to contribute no small share to the pleasure of the company . 
Hewas not more light -- he was another shadow ; and sorrowfully Rosalie 's friends marked where it fell . 
How now , fair Rosalie ! 
` Now that 's what I call point-blank range -- ' said the doctor turning to Rosalie . 
But Miss Rosalie how is it that you can sit up to smile ? 
` There are more houses than one in the world , fortunately , ' said Thornton ; ` but if you mean to reach one to-night , Rosalie , we had better be moving . ' 
` There is some sense in that remark -- a little , ' said the doctor preventing her reply . 
Look here -- ' and taking up a candle he held it before Rosalie 's face . 
A different hour from the other , Thornton felt ; for with the anxious hearing of their talk the weary look had come back again . 
` My prescription is short , ' said Dr. Buffem , as he stood with the door in his hand , -- ` a mere word , Miss Rosalie . ' 
Let me but bear your love , I 'll bear your cares . 
Thesky was covered with clouds when Rosalie took possession of her rooms at the hotel , but there were no clouds on her face ; and Thornton admired to see how she could bear to lose and to leave what she enjoyed very much , and take up with any sort of a home . 
But Rosalie was satisfied with everything , or seemed so ; and had even the skill to hinder all expression of Hulda 's regrets for the cat , the greenhouse , and Mr. Raynor . 
Worse still was Thornton 's resolve to eat at the public table , -- a resolve so fixed , that after some remonstrance Rosalie gave way . 
Meals over , Thornton was off ; and it was just as it happened whether she saw him again for five minutes until the next physical ` reunion . ' 
The first morning and the second he did sit with her for a while , and stayed at home one whole evening after tea ; but the good habit fell off and she was as much alone as ever . 
More alone -- for the range of their once pleasant house had been something , where every picture and piece of furniture gave her a word as she went by , and where the whole atmosphere was that of home . 
The children indeed danced up and down , with the gay spring of a nature that must rebound -- touch what it will ; but Rosalie looked at Hulda at play in the midst of those hotel chairs , and longed to see her in a setting of green grass and dandelions . 
` If people was o ' myway o ' thinkin , ' said Miss Jumps one day , ` these here hotels would n't make much of a livin ; ' and Rosalie entirely agreed with her . 
And you 're just getting as thin as a rail , Miss Rosalie -- and Hulda 's as peaked as she can stand . 
` Patience , Martha , ' Rosalie said with a smile . 
` Have n't you got beyond the common idea of peace yet ? ' 
said Rosalie . 
He was sorry he had asked , for he saw in a moment from her changing face where the next answer might come from . 
Thornton said a little impatiently , for he deigned not to take the advantage she gave him . 
They were such regular visiters indeed , that when Rosalie opened the door in the twilight of an early spring evening , she held out her hand for the flowers without perceiving what hand held them , nor guessing who had knocked ` May I come in ? ' 
` Were you ever in doubt about a bunch of flowers ? ' 
Come Miss Rosalie , it will do you good . ' 
But Rosalie hesitated -- might not Thornton come home to spend the evening with her ? 
And then she remembered that he had gone to some public dinner and would not get away until very late . 
` Yet men see not the bright light which is in the clouds , ' said Rosalie . 
` I did not know you ever felt tired of the world , Mr. Raynor , ' said Rosalie after another little pause . 
` I suppose so , ' Rosalie said . 
` Shadows should not throw shadows , ' said Rosalie smiling . 
` It would do much towards it if you would make yourself so , ' said Rosalie in a low voice . 
There was no answer to this -- unless the lower bend of the head were answer ; and suddenly rising up , Mr. Raynor drew her arm within his and walked slowly two or three times up and down without speaking a word . 
Rosalie felt it ; and stood more easily and breathed freer . 
Rosalie said . 
Are you tired dear Rosalie ? 
have I kept you here too long ? ' 
The voice was grave , but she knew it would say nothing more to trouble her . 
He walked with her a while longer , talking brightly and amusingly of different things of interest ; and before he left her once more in her own room , she wasrested , and felt better than she had done in a long time . 
Ifanything could have reconciled Rosalie to the thought of leaving town , it was that as the spring went on little Hulda was evidently pining for what the town could not give . 
` And hark ye , Miss Rosalie , I would recommend another winged horse for yourself -- only do n't get thrown by endeavouring to fly away from earth altogether , as did Bellerophon . ' 
Rosalie knew not how the workings of the mind were refining away the body , -- how the anxious watch over one and another was softening down her colour , and chiselling a little too close the fair outlines of her face ; nor how very , very delicate the hand was become on which Hulda laid her weary little face for rest and refreshment . 
But I meant Rosalie . ' 
` Rosalie ! ' 
` And pray Mr. Raynor , what do you wish me to do with Rosalie ? ' 
Mr. Raynor smiled a little , but waving the question he only said , ` She is not well , Thornton , -- she needs the change even more than Hulda . ' 
` Rosalie will be glad to hear that there are such watchful eyes abroad . ' 
` You will hardly be repaid for the trouble of telling her ; but about that as you please . ' 
` There would be no question of your pleasure on the subject if you knew how ill she is looking , ' said Mr. Raynor with the same grave , undeclarative manner . 
As to what concern it is of mine -- look at Rosalie yourself , Thornton , and then remember that your eyes see but half in her what mine do . ' 
Rosalie and Marion sat near the window talking earnestly , and Hulda with a hand on the lap of each was jumping lightly from side to side ; now laying her head upon Rosalie to see how Marion looked , and then leaning upon Marion to try the effect of Rosalie ; while the two gave her an occasional glance and smile , but without seeming to come back from their conversation . 
How completely their different characters were worn on the outside , Thornton thought , as he stopped and looked at them , the twilight and their own preoccupation keeping him unseen ; for while Marion 's warm quick nature excited itself for every trifle , kept head and face in earnest motion , and gave the little hands many an excursion into the air when Rosalie 's lay perfectly quiet , -- there were times and subjects that called forth a light and energy in this one 's face , before which the other sobered down , and took the listener 's part with an air subdued and almost tearful A manner to which Thornton gave both understanding and sympathy . 
Rosalie smiled . 
``` I know in whom I have believed , ' '' Rosalie answered with a little bit of that same smile . 
` And because Rosalie is going out of town in a few days , ' observed Thornton . 
` But I thought , ' said Rosalie , ` that if I went at all you were to go too . 
` For just so much good as it will do me to put you in clover , my dear -- no more . ' 
Rosalie was silent . 
There had been words just waiting their chance , but at the flush that came over the pale little face raised so eagerly to hers , all power to speak them failed . 
It was hard to choose between such alternatives . 
Never had she seen him so set on anything as upon this plan ; and his strong will and Hulda 's silent pleadings carried the day . 
Rosalie quietly made her preparations . 
Rosalie said . 
` You never said the first word about bonnets -- and the Old Thirteen aint a bandbox , though she do come near it . ' 
` You will not want much room in which to stow me , ' said Rosalie with a smile . 
Then there 's another thing , Mr. Clyde ; afore the vessel heads off into the stream , you 'd maybe as well take a look at my chart ; but that 's between you and me ; ' and leading the way into the little cabin he made Rosalie understand , that if by the use of the whole or any part of the Old Thirteen she could make herself comfortable , it was at her service . 
said Thornton , who was not fond of meeting Rosalie 's opinions where he did n't expect them . 
And in half an hour , during which three or four messengers had been sent in as many different directions for fruit and other lady-like comforts , the Old Thirteen glided off into the channel and set her sails before the wind . 
By that time Rosalie and Hulda came on deck again , and took seats there to enjoy the fresh breeze . 
There was no disagreeable observation of them , but now and then a few words or a look -- chiefly at Rosalie ; and each time his eyes went back with increased vigilance to the reaches of the river that lay beyond . 
But the afternoon passed quietly and the night fell with no disturbance : and if Rosalie failed to sleep with absolute forgetfulness , it was for no such reason as made Captain Pliny pace the deck all night over her head . 
Even for things of this world . ' 
` Yes , ' Rosalie answered ; and half to herself she went on . 
By dinner time two or three of them were nearer , but the Captain knew them for American coasters , and having pointed out Hart Island to Rosalie , and told her that at this rate she would be in New Haven before she knew it , they went to dinner . 
said Rosalie . 
There Thornton found him when he went up at nine o'clock , but Rosalie and Hulda remained below . 
Not until then did Thornton quit the deck . 
Rosalie sat by Hulda 's bed , so motionless that her brother at first paused lest she might be asleep . 
But she looked up , and as he came and sat down by her she laid her head on his shoulder , and neither spoke nor moved till the day broke . 
The scene was the kitchen of the farm house where Rosalie was to spend the summer ; and as Miss Jumps looked out of the open window over a pleasant expanse of green meadows , cows , chickens , and corn fields , agreeably diversified with a red barn and a fair little brook ; the perils of the sea appeared in strong contrast . 
With this young lady 's able assistance and conversation , Martha prepared both table and breakfast admirably ; and Rosalie found but one thing wanting to her comfort . 
``` He is able to keep that which I have committed to him , ' '' Rosalie thought , as she saw Thornton drive off and caught the last wave of his hand . 
Not to read , but to turn over leaf after leaf ; catching here and there a word of comfort , a word of hope , a word of strength ; until the promises had done their work . 
Her lips lost their nervous trembling , and with a few long breaths the heart beat easier ; and laying her head down upon the closed book Rosalie cried herself to sleep . 
` Well this is a pretty state of things ! ' 
Pickles 'll keep -- that 's one thing , and so 'll bread , -- and she wants it bad enough in all conscience . ' 
Content was the very atmosphere of the region . 
But Rosalie found it hard to get used to her new way of life . 
She loved its quietness with all her heart , but it gave her more thinking time than was quite good for her . 
For with a heart in itself perfectly in tune with all the sweet sounds and influences that were around her , she wanted a little of Hulda 's untouched joyousness to take their full benefit . 
As it was they often set her a musing , -- as often perhaps made her grave as gay . 
Constantly the image of Thornton would present itself ; and ` what is he doing ? ' 
was no resting question , -- she wearied herself with asking what there was none to answer . 
She tried to throw the burden off , and yet the shadow of it remained ; and like a fair plant deprived of the sunlight , her colour grew more and more delicate . 
Little Hulda was every day gaining strength and health , and her gambols were almost her sister 's only amusement ; but even from them Rosalie sometimes turned away , with a sickness at heart that refused to be forgotten . 
said Rosalie starting . 
` But it 's a pretty thing to look at , ' said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie . 
Folks that can work , can work ; and folks that can write , can write ; and folks that can pray , can pray , one would suppose , -- and believe too . ' 
But Rosalie turned to her a face so submissive to this last reproof , that Mrs Hopper had no heart to give more . 
said Rosalie smiling . 
said Rosalie . 
` I will go anywhere you have a mind to take me , ' said Rosalie , with a hearty appreciation of the good will of her hostess . 
off the yarn with consummate neatness and speed . 
said Rosalie , when she had found a place -- not of rest -- upon one of the hard wooden chairs . 
` A person can do that for himself about as handy , ' said one of the company , who with her right knee a rest for the left had elevated her left toe into the air , where it did duty as a reel . 
said Rosalie . 
` Every roll makth one leth , Mith Clyde , ' said the brisk little spinner , stooping as she spoke to take another from the bundle that lay across the wheel . 
` Yes , if I could turn them off as fast as you do , ' said Rosalie . 
Rosalie read straight on . 
` He might be away for a time , in that case , ' said Rosalie ; ` and then be exchanged for some English prisoner . ' 
And silence more deep and profound settled down upon the household ; Rosalie proving herself , as Mrs. Hopper declared between her bursts of sorrow , ` a right down comfort . ' 
And with the pent-up torrent whirling her in its grasp , she would go round the house and do two women 's work at once . 
But if perchance Rosalie came to seek her -- or without seeking came in her way ; and she met the sweet look that had known its own sorrow , and felt hers , -- Mrs. Hopper gave way at once ; and dropping whatever she had in her hand would sit down , and as she expressed it ` have her cry out ' -- then and there . 
` I aint a bit better than a fool when I come across you , ' she said on one of these occasions , when the tears were spent for the time , and she had looked up and saw Rosalie still standing by her . 
` It is n't best to keep up always , ' said Rosalie gently , and sitting down by her on the stairs . 
There 's no more brothers to lose for her . ' 
Rosalie almost shivered at the words , and for a moment she did not speak . 
It sha 'n' t be anywhere to hurt you . ' 
Rosalie readily promised her company . 
And hearing a step she started up and went off . 
` I never was much tried , ' said Rosalie , ` but I think I may say no . ' 
And without further explanation she began to follow the brook in its course , with an air of business determination that seemed a relief to her mind , -- bestowing no more words upon Rosalie , but never failing to give her a hand in the difficult places . 
Slowly taking the first steps on this path , Mrs. Hopper turned again and spoke to Rosalie . 
Rosalie saw the mother 's hands clasp each other tightly for a moment -- then the clasp was loosed and she went forward , and her friend followed . 
Then came a rudely chiselled ship lifted up on a wave of its petrified ocean ; no bad emblem of the young life-current so suddenly stayed ; and below were these words : -- `` Thy servant did descend into the midst of the battle . '' 
``` Thy servant , ' '' Rosalie said , in a voice so low that it claimed none but willing attention . 
Mrs. Hopper moved her head as if she would have spoken , but no words came -- only again her hands were pressed together , but this time with a joyful difference ; and like a flash her look sought Rosalie 's face , and again went back . 
Rosalie said at length , the long breath seeming to bear witness to sorrowful thoughts in her mind as well . 
The leaves were beginning to make their bright changes , and the beautiful gay tints infringed very perceptibly upon the summer green . 
Rosalie wondered to herself if changes were once again creeping over her life , -- if what had so long been was to be no more . 
And yet -- for the mind loves even surface sparkles on the water rather than its cold depths -- she could hardly take up the thought in a sorrowful way . 
Sober it was , as the long shadows that stretched across the fields ; but fair streaks of sunlight lay between , and in them the fall tints looked bright and hopeful : there was even comfort in the thought of such beauty-working cold nights of frost . 
And the quietness of full assent fell on Rosalie 's heart . 
It seemed to Rosalie as if darkness fell as they moved on -- as if the glow faded because they came . 
As if the clouds could not keep their bright tinges with that wagon beneath ; and as it came on at the same slow pace and halted before their gate , she knew it was the answer to Mrs. Hopper 's hopes and fears for her son 's return . 
A startled bird flew twittering past the window , touching Rosalie with its own undefined fear , and hastily she turned away and opened the kitchen door . 
At the noise of the door latch she looked up , and instantly rose ; standing still then for one moment with her hand pressed to her side , she merely said , ` I felt it , Miss Rosalie ; ' -- and then throwing up one of the kitchen windows which looked towards the barn and outhouses , she called in a voice that went through the still evening air without the ringing effect of an ordinary loud call , ` Jabin ! 
then shut the window and came and stood on the hearth again , without speaking or looking at Rosalie who had not stirred from her first position . 
Rosalie closed hers , and passing swiftly to the front of the house glided out in the soft cool twilight , and went round as she had been directed . 
Martha said , -- ` if Miss Rosalie do n't look just like a ghost in the moonshine ! ' 
Rosalie sat down on one that lay near the door , and looked out and looked in with strange feelings . 
And within the barn there fell the same moonlight , but upon what different types of humanity . 
One little sigh , and another escaped her lips -- then somebody softly touched her hand . 
` We shall not want tea till I go , ' said Rosalie , ' and I am not going yet . 
` I am a sober kind of person at best , Jerusha , ' said Rosalie kindly . 
` I 'm always so ` fraid of -- of -- I did n't have but one brother , Miss Clyde -- and it 's hard . ' 
The same shiver that she had felt before passed over Rosalie . 
` Do you remember , ' said Rosalie , ` what Jesus has said -- `` Thy brother shall rise again . '' 
` Yes , ' said Jerusha in the same smothered voice , crouching down by Rosalie and hiding her face against her . 
` Poor child -- ' Rosalie said , and for a moment she paused , her words suddenly cut off . 
The sweet words found their way down to the fear as well as the sorrow of Jerusha 's heart , and with a long sigh she dried her eyes and looked up . 
At the same moment her mother 's tall figure stood in the doorway , and the strip of moonlight was cut off . 
She did not speak , but stepped aside as if to let the others pass ; and when they were all out of the barn she took Jerusha 's hand and followed them slowly . 
There was a large gathering in the house that night , -- friends , unneeded yet not officious , came and went and stayed ; though these last but few . 
Rosalie had given up her sitting room as the best and largest in the house , and retreated for the time to a smaller one up-stairs which she used for a bedroom . 
With the stifled feelings of one who breathes in imagined sorrow , Rosalie went to the window and threw up the sash . 
A slight frost in the air kept down all dampness , and hushed the many insect voices that were wont to sing ; and the stars shone with a perfect light ; but the moon had long since dipped her crescent beneath the dark woods of the horizon . 
Rosalie wrapped herself in a warm shawl and sat down by the open window ; and while she looked and listened the hours went by with feet as noiseless and swift as her own thoughts . 
The voices ceased for a while and then began again -- this time as it were for themselves ; and though Rosalie 's tears flowed as she listened , the first gush took off all their bitterness . 
Rosalie looked to the east , and in the opal unearthly light which flickered up from the horizon the morning-star rode supreme -- O who that saw could describe it to those who had not seen ! 
``` A country of joy without any alloy '' -- ' Rosalie thought . 
The rest of the afternoon was devoted to spinning , and to grave conversation with Martha or Miss Clyde , or with any neighbour that might chance to come in . 
There Rosalie would find her , when she went out into the kitchen towards tea time to see if Jabin had gone to the post-office and had come back ; the big wheel whirring round , the spindle throwing off its long fine thread , with now and then a break and now and then an added roll . 
` Haint thought a word o ' the post since morning , Miss Rosalie . 
And Rosalie would come and stand with folded hands before the fire . 
` Not much good , ' said Rosalie . 
And Mrs. Hopper spun her wheel round and round with a degree of spirit that seemed to say she was speaking her mind with some force to somebody . 
Rosalie thought she could not hope for letters much longer ; and in that mood she sat with Hulda at breakfast next morning ; giving wistful glances now and then at the bright fire which tempered the cool air within , and the bright sunlight which did the same work without . 
` Miss Rosalie , ' said Martha presenting herself with hot toast , ` Jabin wants to know if he 'll go to the post-office this noon afore he comes home , or if night 'll do ? ' 
` Would n't like to say what it might do on its own account . ' 
Rosalie looked out of the window again , and quickly resolved that she would be her own bearer of despatches . 
` O I will ride of course , unless they want the horse on the farm . ' 
` Ca n't have him if they do , ' said Martha . 
Rosalie called , ` I will go and see about it myself . ' 
And taking Hulda , she went forth to where Jabin was splitting pine knots for Mrs. Hopper 's spinning light . 
Jabin however took an old rusty pan of salt and a bridle , and went off ; and Rosalie and Hulda stood still to see the fun . 
Now it was apparent that the bridle in some degree nullified the salt , for though the horses stretched out their heads and snuffed and neighed and walked about Jabin , till he was quite surrounded ; none but the younger ones who had never been caught would approach his offered handful . 
It was early yet when Rosalie set forth , and the frost was scarce off the ground , it crisped and cracked beneath Stamp 's feet , who probably liked his exemption from farm duty or felt exhilarated with the stampede , for he went along at a good pace . 
In such a case Rosalie and Stamp turned out , and took no more of the road than its flowery edge , and no more of the grain than a mouthful . 
There was more ethereal beauty overhead , in the blue sky and fleecy white clouds ; and health and exhilaration in the cool mountain air , which sometimes swept Stamp 's mane and tail quite out of the sphere in which they were placed by nature . 
Rosalie rode on much at her leisure ; partly to please her own mood and eyesight , partly because Stamp 's most rapid pace savoured a little too much of the perpendicular ; therefore she rather held him in . 
She was also willing , perhaps unconsciously , to prolong the pleasure of hope , and was in no haste to meet disappointment if one awaited her . 
And though as she neared the little hamlet that clustered about the post-office she quickened Stamp 's pace to a round trot , and reined him up sharply before the office door ; there was only enough expectation left to give a keener edge to the words , ` No , Miss Clyde -- no letters -- sorry to say , if you want 'em . ' 
And Rosalie turned and rode home as slowly as before , at least for half the way ; and then her admonitions were so frequent that Stamp at last understood that a perpetual trot was expected of him . 
` Fine day , aint it Miss Rosalie ? ' 
Miss Rosalie , if I was you I 'd take off my skirt here and let me take it up stairs , and not go trapesing through the whole house that fashion . ' 
` I am not so fond of this particular way , ' said Rosalie as she made the change . 
If Rosalie could have seen the little shake of Martha 's head which followed these words , her eyes would have been better prepared for the sight which met them as she entered the sitting-room ; for Mr. Raynor stood by the window , half leaning against it , with folded arms , and looking down into the dell where ran the brook ; he turned as the door opened just to see Rosalie 's painful start . 
A start of pain -- for why had he come ? 
` You need not be afraid of me , ' Mr. Raynor said , coming forward and taking both her hands . 
` I bring you no bad tidings . ' 
She drew the breath then , long and wearily , and bringing her forward to the fire , Mr. Raynor placed a chair for her and took one himself . 
Rosalie untied her hat , as if even those light strings choked her , but she asked no question . 
` How long is it since you have learned to distrust my word ? ' 
said her companion with a slight smile that was very reassuring . 
Rosalie 's paleness gave way a little , and she looked up less fearfully , and smiled herself . 
why did you not tell me before ? 
Rosalie said . 
said Rosalie . 
Rosalie said at length . 
` O , ' said Rosalie starting up , ` then I will go too and see him at once ! ' 
` Because I shall not take you , ' he answered with a little smile , looking up at her as she stood before him . 
` That is a very arbitrary reason , ' said Rosalie , her cheeks flushing as she resumed her seat . 
` It seems to me you are all at cross purposes to-day , ' said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie with some hesitation , -- ` or is your time too precious ? 
` Why I am perfectly well , ' said Rosalie . 
` It is best to rest contented with what one has , ' said Rosalie lightly . 
May I put that into his head ? ' 
` Why not ? ' 
She did not say why not , but the fluttering colour in her cheeks was a little distressful . 
I think you have the warrant of past experience that I will do nought to trouble you . ' 
But dear Rosalie , take better care of yourself , for my sake . 
You must let me say so much , and so much you must do . ' 
She watched him ride off in the fair autumn light as she had watched Thornton so many weeks before . 
But about her brother fear and sorrow had thrown their shadows -- now she looked through an atmosphere of perfect trust . 
Probably she did not recognize the rainbow which this sunshine made from the lingering tear-drops in her eyes , but it was there , nevertheless . 
was Thornton 's exclamation , when Mr. Raynor entered his room about eight o'clock that evening . 
` Certainly -- for an hour . ' 
` And what did she say ? 
is she well ? ' 
was Thornton 's next question , but put in a different tone . 
you know as well as I do that I do n't deserve to have her care whether I am alive or dead . ' 
Never ask me whether Rosalie is herself still . 
` Now tell me every word that Rosalie said . 
And in the first place , Sir Henry , I think quite as highly of her as you do . ' 
said Thornton with an impatient gesture . 
` You are not obliged to admire her any more than I do , at all events . 
` On the contrary the words spoken were mostly my own , and Rosalie said but little . ' 
` Rosalie again ! ' 
You have it in most things , to do you justice , ' said Thornton . 
` Well will it suit you to tell me what she didsay ? ' 
` The gypsey ! ' 
` What had you to say about it ? ' 
` I did say that I should not bring her . ' 
` And Rosalie -- you know I never can bear to hear you talk about her . ' 
` Well but -- ' said Thornton , -- ` of course I did , but not in that way . 
` You are certainly the most provoking man I ever had to deal with . 
` As she used to when ? ' 
said Thornton . 
` Her health has had several phases since I first knew her , ' said his friend gravely . 
` She is perhaps looking better than she was last spring , and will I hope improve faster now that her mind is at rest about you , -- partly at rest . ' 
` That is the way with Rosalie -- and I suppose with all paragon people . ' 
` But I shall want you there , ' he said . 
` Not when you have seen Rosalie . ' 
He had wished to prove to her that he was as good as other people , and he was worse than himself . 
Rosalie spent her strength upon him most unweariedly ; though less in doing than in watching , -- in trying to amuse him , in hoping that he would be amused . 
Nothing satisfied him , not even Rosalie 's watchful love ; though he was more ready than of old to appreciate its working ; but if he shook off his moodiness at all , it was generally with such a fling as sent a reminder of the mood into the face of every one present -- after which he relapsed tenfold . 
Rosalie said one day as he sat by the fire . 
` Take my little basket and fill it for me , and by and by I will walk with you . ' 
And as Hulda left the room Rosalie came and knelt down by her brother . 
You will never get strong in this way , and it troubles me very much . ' 
` No , to do him justice , ' said Thornton , ` he never mentioned your name unless I did . 
There was pleasure in hearing these words , -- but for the cold , unenjoying tone , Rosalie would have felt it strongly . 
As it was the pleasure was qualified ; and her quiet ` I am glad you think so , ' told of both feelings . 
She waited long for Thornton to speak again , but his lips did not move ; and slowly she arose and went to give Hulda the promised walk : her voice and eye following the child 's merry pranks , and all her thoughts left at home . 
She could hardly have told whether the walk was long or short , and most like her brother could not ; for when Rosalie again entered the sitting-room he had not stirred from his former position -- had not even changed the hand which supported his head . 
Rosalie came up and laid her hand on it , but the soft touch called forth no words , and in silence she sat down to await the coming in of tea . 
The meal passed with equal taciturnity ; Hulda went to bed , and Rosalie sat down as before -- her eyes apparently seeking counsel of the little wood fire , which flashed into their bright depths with great vivacity . 
` I do n't know . ' 
` Why do n't you know ? ' 
` I presume my ready money would scarce exchange for it without a pretty heavy discount . ' 
Rosalie looked at him , as if she thought and truly that just then he was counterfeiting ; but his face gave her no invitation to speak , and her eyes went back to the fire . 
When she turned to him again , however , and somewhat suddenly , he was regarding her with a grave abstracted sort of look , as if from her his thoughts had taken a wide range : not into the pleasant regions . 
said Rosalie smiling . 
``` The spirits of just men made perfect , ' '' Rosalie said . 
` For those that see it , ' said Thornton with some bitterness . 
no , ' he said , but something in her eye checked him , -- he turned away and rested his head on his hand as before . 
Rosalie came and laid her hand on it again -- laid her cheek there too , but he did not move . 
` What troubles you , brother ? ' 
I feel as if I had you in trust . ' 
``` And every one of us shall give account of himself to God , ' '' she answered in a low voice , her lips touching his forehead . 
For the first time since he had been there , Thornton went softly in to look at her when he went up-stairs and she lay asleep ; as much perhaps because he was tired of himself , and tired of remembering his own existence , as anything . 
And certainly if contrast could make him forget , the end was gained . 
Life could be no failure , -- the purpose of God must stand , and she wished none other . 
It was a strange point to reach , Thornton thought , as he stood watching her calm face , and felt that whatever shadows lay there came not from discontent . 
There came up before him the image of one whose nature was at least as strong as his own , in whom manhood was not better grown than Christianity ; but he put it away and looked at Rosalie . 
They stirred a little , though he caught no words , and with a long sigh Rosalie folded her hands upon her breast as if she were making a last appeal . 
Then they relaxed and lay quiet as before , and the lips were still ; and Thornton went away with a quick step , feeling that from her his questions could get no answer such as they wished . 
he repeated to himself again and again -- ` I never could quiet myself down to her temper , if I tried all my life ' -- and then he remembered that he had never tried for one day . 
But though that business was finished with much elaboration , Thornton would not go to church ; and Rosalie staid with him . 
Everybody else went , and the house was left in utter solitude ; with windows closed and doors bolted , and Trouncer the old bull-dog lying in the porch with his nose between his paws . 
Rosalie persuaded her brother to come out to the edge of the dell and spend the morning there ; where the brook 's soft rush at their feet and the bird notes up in the air , were all the interruptions . 
And so they remained ; with the sweet Sabbath bell sounding forth in the distance and answered by another still further off , until the last ring floated away on the pure air and all was still . 
Rosalie had closed her book for listening , and now sat with closed eyes , as if too many senses were disturbing . 
Her brother watched her , unconscious of his gaze or that he had even raised his head . 
Her face was at rest , as of one asleep after a weary world ; for the bells with their suggestions and associations had half done sleep 's work . 
` Rosalie ! ' 
How the face changed , how the weary look came back , he saw as she turned towards him ; her eyelashes yet wet with the drops of that sun-shower . 
` Take me up the stream of your thoughts from the sunshine that was upon your face just now . ' 
` No matter -- take me . 
Again she looked at him , and away from him , but the eyes filled as she answered , ``` Hitherto ye have asked nothing in my name : ask , and ye shall receive , that your joy may be full . ' '' 
` Do you believe that , Rosalie ? ' 
The look was brilliant . 
` Have you never asked for what you were wishing yesterday ? ' 
` Then why is it not done ? ' 
said Thornton , with an effort to keep his own firm . 
She paused a moment , as if to steady her half-choked voice , ere she answered . 
` Miss Rosalie 'll go , I 'll venture , ' said Martha ; ` and all the rest . ' 
There were pretty moss-covered rocks shewing their heads above ground from place to place , and on one of these Rosalie seated herself to watch the play on the hill-side . 
` I am not sure but I shall go to New York for a week or so before you do , Rosalie , ' said her brother . 
` She will have it now . ' 
Rosalie said ; the warm flush of joy and thankfulness coming over her face . 
what a guardian youhave been ! ' 
` Thornton ' -- Rosalie said . 
` I could n'tleave Rosalie . ' 
` Put Rosalie out of the question . ' 
Or would you rather live half the time with Rosalie and half with Marion ? ' 
` But then there 'd be nobody to take care of Rosalie , ' said Hulda . 
`` The Lord is thy life , and the length of thy days '' -- how true that is ! ' 
` Rosalie , ' said her brother with a look that was both fearful and wondering -- for she had raised her head again , and was eyeing the fire in the same intent and abstracted way ; ` you are tired , you are not well . 
Let me carry you up-stairs now , and to-morrow you may talk more of these things . ' 
As if a cloud had rolled away from before her eyes , so did Rosalie look up at him , -- a child 's very look , of quietness and peace . 
The words were spoken clearly and strongly , though rather as if thinking than speaking ; but as she rose then to go up-stairs the colour faded swiftly from her cheeks , and laying her hand on Thornton with a confused look , sense and strength failed together . 
Thornton carried her up-stairs and laid her on the bed , and toil-hardened hands tried their gentlest powers about her ; but when at length paleness and unconsciousness yielded to their efforts , it was to give place in turn to a brilliant colour and a fevered sleep . 
In silence Thornton sat by her through the night , -- remembering with intense bitterness the years of her society that he had shunned , and feeling that whatever might be the effect of this sickness he could not say a word . 
The women went softly about the room , attending to the fire and bathing the poor sleeper 's forehead and hands ; but whatever words they spoke were scarce whispered out , and Rosalie 's quick breathings fell on her brother 's ear without interruption . 
How he wished her away from there , -- with her own physician , in her own home -- with other friends within reach . 
Such skill as could be found in the neighbourhood was called in , and pronounced her disease to be a slow fever ; more tedious than dangerous unless it should take some special type , but requiring constant care and watchfulness . 
And until the day came streaming in through the windows , Thornton hardly removed his eyes from her face . 
But the contrast was lost upon Thornton , for his eye and ear took little note of anything but Rosalie ; and the morning came on , and the women went softly in and out , and he scarce noticed them nor heard their low consultation . 
` Then I will take you up there ; but first you must wait a little , for Rosalie would be troubled to see all these tears . 
It was a lesson for him , all this , -- he began to try his hand at self-denial , and to learn the lesson which Rosalie had so long practised . 
True his watching eyes could do her no good -- both days and nights were passed in the restlessness or the sleep of fever , and often she seemed hardly to know him . 
But for himself , what comfort anything on earth could give he found at her side . 
Sitting on her brother 's lap with her arm round his neck , and probing his distress with her earnest questions , -- walking with him -- hearing him read , and never failing to bring up Rosalie 's name at every turn , she was comparatively cheerful . 
She left him to his thoughts at length , and with them he held deep discourse ; with but the rain and the rising wind for a refrain . 
Meanwhile Thornton had prepared Rosalie for the sight of her kind physician and friend ; and the doctor walked in and took his seat at her bedside , forbidding her to speak by a peremptory motion of his finger . 
` Now why could n't you get sick in town , like a Christian ? ' 
said Doctor Buffem , as he took Rosalie 's hand in his , and examined her countenance with his practised eyes . 
Now how do you feel yourself , Miss Rosalie ? 
` Not much right , ' said Rosalie , with a little smile . 
Ca n't form half an opinion upon unsatisfied organs of sleep ; therefore if you will permit me at once to retire to this bed , I will with pleasure resign to you my half of the kitchen fire . ' 
` You think Rosalie is better ? ' 
` Do n't know how she was , ' said the doctor . 
` How can I tell whether she 's better ? 
And just tell Mr. Raynor that he need n't come waking me up every half hour to go and see how she is , -- I 'll wake up myself and no thanks to him . ' 
It 's ill travelling without the staff of life . ' 
` And if Rosalie goes on steadily improving , when would it be safe for her to return to New York ? ' 
` New York ? 
fal de rol ! ' 
` Do n't bring her back to brick walls till she 's able to climb 'em . 
She 's seen enough of New York for one while . 
The minute she can stand alone take her off for change of air and scene -- jaunt about a little -- go South , if you like ; but do n't let her see New York these three months . ' 
But one afternoon at the end of that week , when Rosalie was well enough to sit up in a great chair by her wood fire , and all the rest had gone out for a walk ; that peculiarly quiet step might have been heard on the stairs -- if indeed it had made noise enough . 
Martha had gone down a few minutes before , leaving Rosalie 's door half open ; and thinking all human ears far away -- with the perfect stillness of the house -- she was singing to herself in the fading sunlight . 
He waited till the hymn was finished -- waited for another , but it came not ; and still he lingered , as if there were a halo about her he liked not to break . 
Then a quiet knock at the open door , a quiet word of admission , and whatever effect he charged upon his presence the room looked no less bright to her . 
` I should think business might call for it all , ' said Rosalie . 
said Rosalie . 
` You ? ' 
` Not without you . ' 
` That was the second letter ; this is the first -- When do you expect to come down stairs ? ' 
` But if you take up my words so , ' Rosalie said , ` I shall not be able to say what I wish . ' 
It is always well to know beforehand what one has to do ; and this dear Rosalie is not to be reasoned against nor reasoned away , -- therefore think not so much as may trouble thee . 
Goodnight . ' 
Tom Skiddy stood out in the chip yard next morning , and Miss Jumps in her old position with her hands behind her , stood leaning against a tree and watching him . 
But then if Miss Rosalie 's goin ' in for the Quakers , I aint agoin ' with her -- that 's one thing . 
Thornton wishes it , and so does Rosalie ; and I am but too glad to be spared the great New York fuss which you would think indispensable were I there . ' 
Hulda had been there to be sure , in such a mixture of pleasure that she was to be with Marion for a while , and sorrow that Rosalie was going away , and joy to think of living always part of the time with her and Mr. Raynor too ; that she was sometimes absolutely still , and sometimes flitted about like a very spirit of unrest . 
` So fruitless also , ' said Rosalie . 
` Very well , ' said Thornton ; ` but I have not been so lost in meditation as to miss the glances stolen at us all from under cover of your eyelashes , little Sweetbrier . ' 
` I am thinking , Alie , ' said Thornton , ` what you will do without some one to take charge of . ' 
` And she will not be here until to-morrow , ' he said , leading his mother to where Rosalie stood supporting herself by her arm-chair . 
` The next best thing is visible . ' 
The heart of the quakeress had but imperfectly learned the quaker lesson ; for in silence she embraced Rosalie and softly replaced her in the great chair , and in silence held out her hands to Thornton and Marion , and gave them most cordial though mute greeting . 
` Mother , ' said Mr. Raynor , ` you forget that Rosalie is not a quakeress . ' 
He answered only by a glance at the transparent hand on which Rosalie 's cheek rested , its very attitude speaking some difficulty of self-control ; but his mother understood , and removed her own hand and took the chair he had placed for her : answering then his questions and putting forth some of her own . 
Thornton and Marion meanwhile exchanged a few words but Rosalie said nothing . 
said Rosalie . 
` No , ' Mr. Raynor said , ` not to Rosalie 's lips . 
``` He hath a will -- he hath a power to perform , ' '' said Rosalie with a little smile as she rose from her seat ; nor did she look to see the smile that her words called forth , although it were more than her own . 
But it was rarely pretty and picturesque ; and even the fact that Rosalie must sit whenever she need not stand , rather heightened the effect . 
But while Mrs. Raynor turned her head the door was opened again as noiselessly ; and when she once more looked round from a contemplation of the clock face , the very persons whom she had expected stood in the doorway . 
Rosalie in her flush of restored health and one or two other things , her furred and deep-coloured travelling dress , looking as little as possible like a quakeress ; and Mr. Raynor , though bearing out his mother 's words that he would have made a beautiful Friend , yet with an air and manner that said if he were one now it was after a different pattern . 
` Than I deserve to be -- ' Rosalie said . 
` Thee need not speak truth after thine own fashion here , ' said the quakeress with a smile , and laying first her hand and then her lips upon the fair brow that was a little bent down before her . 
` Does not thee know that the right of possession is enhancing ? ' 
And Rosalie had nothing to do but sit where they placed her , and let her hands be ungloved and taken care of ; while questions and words of joy and welcome could not cease their flow , nor eyes be satisfied with seeing . 
Then came tea ; but Rosalie drew back from being put at the head of the table . 
And Rosalie was seated there without more ado ; where even Rachel surveyed her with unwonted admiration of colours and uncovered hair . 
` Mother , ' said Mr. Raynor , as it drew on towards eight o'clock , ` you must let me take Rosalie away for an hour . 
I know she will not rest till she has seen Thornton and Hulda . ' 
` Thee must judge for thyself , Henry , -- nathless thee knows that we Friends think much of patience . ' 
And if her old sorrowful life came up to Rosalie , it was but to stir the very depths of her heart with wonder and gratitude ; till she was ready to say with the Psalmist , `` What is man , that thou art mindful of him ? 
