At least the word Neria is pricked into her shoulder with Indian ink , and I take it to be her name , '' said Mrs. Rhee , somewhat contemptuously . 
`` Neria ? 
The mermaids must have named her before they left her on the shore . 
Let it belong to her . 
The bracelet I shall put away until Neria is old enough to wear it ; and before leaving home I shall make all possible inquiries concerning her mother 's story . 
Behind them walked Neria , a tall , slight girl , of a face and figure promising , through the immaturity of their thirteen years , a development of rare loveliness . 
Francia wandered down upon the sands , collecting brilliant pebbles , in the next moment to be thrown away , and about midway between them stood Neria , her hands locked together , her head drooping , her dreamy eyes fixed upon the water , and a faint smile stirring her sensitive mouth . 
Neria had sunk upon her knees , her face buried in her hands , and her slender form shaken with irrepressible sobs . 
`` Neria , come with me . '' 
But Neria did not move or speak , and Claudia , the impetuous , hastily climbed the tortuous path leading to the brow of the cliff , and a moment after knocked at the same door that , twelve years before , had been opened by Lazarus Graves to admit the new master of Cragness to his lonely home . 
The occupants of this boat were Neria and Francia Vaughn , Claudia Livingstone , a bride in her honeymoon , and her brother Fergus Murray , a young man whose five-and-twenty years had done for him the work that fifty fail to accomplish for many men . 
At her feet sat Neria , her hands clasped upon her lap , her eyes upraised in absorbing reverie , her pure profile clear cut against the background of dark woodland , her attitude as graceful as it was unconscious . 
In the bows , Francia , smiling to herself , wove with nimble fingers a wreath of dripping water-lilies , glancing as she wrought at the handsome head of her Cousin Fergus , who , with his back to her , found amusement now in lightly dipping the oar that he held , so as to shatter the image Claudia watched with so much satisfaction , and now , in gazing at Neria 's wonderful loveliness . 
Give it to Neria , who in the moonlight looks like the spirit of the lake , or , '' and releasing the hands , the young man turned toward his cousin and lowered his voice . 
`` If we want a veritable Undine , I know where to find her . '' 
`` Undine before she found her soul ? '' 
`` Before she was married , yes , '' replied Fergus . 
Fergus , stepping more deliberately from the boat , drew it up on the beach , and after carefully handing Neria out , impatiently called : `` Come , Claudia , we are waiting for you ! '' 
It is not a fit one for a boating party , '' said Fergus , hurriedly passing the boat-chain over the post set for it , and hastening after Neria , already disappearing in the sombre woodland path . 
`` Of course , you 'll laugh , and , possibly , will be offended ; but , once for all , I tell you that little ward of yours , Neria , is falling in love with you , '' said Mr. Murray , in a matter-of-fact voice . 
`` Neria in love with me ! '' 
`` It is only a few weeks that you have been at home , you know ; and since she saw you last she has grown from a girl to a woman , and is , womanlike , all ready to fall prostrate at the feet of the first idol that chance sets before her . 
She is fascinated by your appearance and manners , and the savoir faireresulting from your wide travels appears to her the wisdom of a God . 
She is devoting herself now to the building of an altar for this god ; and , presently , when the incense begins to rise , you may find it more intoxicating than you imagine . '' 
Vaughn walked thoughtfully on for some moments , and then said , `` The caution is kindly meant , Murray , and , I assure you , kindly taken ; but I do n't think you quite know me , and neither of us knows more of Neria than her exquisite beauty . 
To my mind either Francia or Claudia is far handsomer than Neria . 
She is too cold and lifeless , has too little color and curve for my taste . 
She always reminds me of the winter sea that washed her up . '' 
`` You have not seen her as I have , '' said Vaughn , quietly ; `` and perhaps never could . 
And to compare her with Claudia and Francia , or them with each other , is unjust to all three , for while each is an almost perfect type of a special form of beauty , the three forms are as wide apart as the sea and the sun . 
Now , I suppose in common every-day parlance , you mean by this transfiguration and ` possession ' that Neria has a very expressive face . 
`` I mean that under strong emotion or deep interest , she becomes another person . 
Her eyes , which ordinarily are a clear , light grey , deepen to the color of the sea beneath a thunder sky ; her lips glow with a vivid scarlet , and ripen to an exquisite fulness ; her cheeks bloom with the rare tint that Titian strove all his life to embody in color ; her very hair deepens from its pale gold to an aureola of glory ; her slender figure dilates and rounds itself to the perfection of womanhood . 
It is marvellous -- absolutely marvellous , and no one who has never witnessed this change should speak of Neria 's beauty , for it is a thing he can not understand . '' 
`` Wait awhile , '' said Mr. Murray , dryly , and they ascended the broad steps to the terrace , where Claudia sang passionate love-songs to her guitar , while her husband , with a handkerchief over his head , sat upon the sill of the drawing-room window , and Francia wandered restlessly up and down , looking every moment toward the garden where Neria 's white dress floated through the long alleys with a dark shadow at its side . 
Light and shadow presently came toward the house , and Francia , who had been for some moments immovable at the end of the terrace nearest to the garden , hurried to the other end , and seated herself upon the shaded steps , with a cruel little pang at the thought that she should not be missed . 
Without turning her head , she heard the merry talk that sprang up at the farther end of the terrace , heard some one ask for herself , and Claudia 's careless answer that she had gone into the house , perhaps to rest . 
Such a morning dawned upon Bonniemeer , and Neria , alone upon the terrace , stood looking over sea and earth , and dreaming the pure , bright dreams that such scenes should stir in a young and virgin heart . 
Not dreaming , but humming a blithe hunting song that suited well his active and virile mien , came Fergus , striding rapidly up the avenue , until catching sight of Neria , he stopped , half in admiration of her attitude and the glorified beauty of her eager face , half shame-faced in remembering his disordered appearance and the dripping towel in his hand . 
And the young man passed on , with one sidelong , wistful glance at Neria , who smiled a greeting , but did not speak . 
continued Neria , turning to meet a little wave of fresher air , one of Ocean 's ponderous love-sighs that just then grazed her cheek . 
`` Yes , '' replied Vaughn , absently , and then asked , `` Of what were you thinking , Neria , just before Fergus came up ? '' 
`` I was thinking of you , sir , '' replied Neria , quietly . 
`` But , Neria , tell me something , '' added he , drawing her hand through his arm and walking up and down the shady terrace . 
Neria looked a little troubled , and then suddenly relieved . 
`` I am glad you spoke of it , sir , '' said she , `` for now I can ask you what I had better say . 
interrupted Neria , anxiously . 
`` It was long ago , '' said Neria , dreamily , `` when we were quite little girls , that we had some dispute , Franc and I ; and although I gave up to her , I said she had no right to try to force me to , for she was in the wrong , and was really the one to yield . 
`` About your finding me on the sea-beach , in the arms of my poor dead mother -- '' Neria paused , and stood for a moment looking out toward the sea with a wistful yearning in her eyes , as if the memory of that dead mother were to her forever associated with that other mystery beside which she had lain . 
A look so full of inexpressible longing of lonely grief , that Vaughn , gazing down upon it , would fain have clasped her to his heart and kissed the darkening eyes and quivering lips to peace and trust ; but he could not do it , as he should , he would not , as he wished . 
`` I always thought about it while I was little , '' continued Neria , drearily ; `` and sometimes it made me sad -- made me feel as if I did not quite belong here , and really had not the right to resist if Francia did not agree with me . 
`` But still , '' pursued Neria , `` I do not like to call you father , because you are not in very truth my father , and so I should do nothing to make it appear so . '' 
`` Perhaps you are right , Neria , although , as I have always considered you a child of my own , your scruples seem to me excessive . 
`` Francia says ` sir , ' and so does Fergus , '' suggested Neria , hesitatingly `` And I was thinking if you liked it , that Sieuris the very name I would like to call you best , as if you knew you were the king and I the orphan ward for whom you cared . '' 
`` I do n't like secrets very much , '' said Neria , apprehensively . 
`` Come , good people , come to breakfast , we are all waiting for you , '' called Claudia from the window , and Neria turned to her so winsome a face , that the young matron smiled as she had not done for many a day . 
`` Neria and Franc , get on your habits , and I will order the horses ; Claudia , I suppose you do n't care to ride ? '' 
Fergus silently looked at Neria , who had not spoken . 
Neria smiled , but shook her head . 
`` Not just now , '' said Neria , beginning to look a little troubled . 
`` That would be unkind to Francia , who wishes to go , '' said Neria , quietly . 
asked Neria , smiling meaningly . 
`` I did not think it was in you to be so ungenerous , Neria , '' said he , rising and walking to the other end of the room , where the others were gathered in the breezy bay window . 
asked Francia , timidly ; for she had learned to read her cousin 's face , and now saw displeasure and disappointment in it . 
`` Yes , if you please , '' said he , coldly ; and , as Franc moved slowly toward the door , he stepped out of the window , without glancing toward Neria , and went to order the horses . 
Half an hour later , Claudia , lounging in a great Indian chair , saw Neria coming down the stairs in her walking dress , and , with a sudden impulse , advanced to join her . 
`` Stop a minute , '' called she , `` I will go a little way with you , if you are for a walk . '' 
Neria hesitated , and then said : `` Come , then , a little way . '' 
`` I never tan or burn , and I never wear a veil , '' said Neria , quietly , as she put the little bat , with its drooping white plume , upon the top of her airily-folded , shining hair . 
`` Yes , it is very becoming , I admit , '' said Claudia , half envious ; adding , as she glanced at Neria 's stainless skin , `` and such a complexion as yours is heaven 's last , best gift to man . '' 
`` Not to man , exactly , '' retorted Neria , putting aside , as ill-judged , an impulse to suggest to her companion some better cause for thankfulness to heaven . 
`` Yes ; but , Claudia , I think he never has been just the same since that he was that summer , '' said Neria , dubiously . 
`` I do n't understand , '' said Neria , with a puzzled look . 
asked Neria . 
Neria looked at her , with a slow horror gathering in her eyes . 
was all she said ; but as she turned and walked on alone , the remorseful woman who had met those eyes and heard that tone , sank down upon the beach and wept as she had not wept since the fatal day that first saw her glide beneath John Gillies 's roof . 
Arrivedat Cragness , Neria was at once admitted to the library , and found its master seated at the open window , looking listlessly out over the water . 
He rose as his guest entered , mutely greeted her , and then feebly sank again into the great arm-chair . 
Those grey eyes no longer looked on men and things with the shrewd suspicion , the crafty watchfulness , of their youth , but had taken a dreary , introspective softness into their depths -- a pain , a doubt , a longing , inexpressibly mournful to Neria , who looked now at her old friend with a new appreciation of the silent story of his life . 
The solemn joy died away , and Neria sat , with bowed head and dreamy eyes , her fingers idly wandering over the keys , and drawing from them faint whispers , dim echoes -- hints of the murmuring sea that swept up beneath the open window , of the summer that glowed in sky and shore . 
A thin , hard hand , laid lightly upon her arm , roused her , with a start . 
`` I have something to say to you , Miss Neria , '' said John Gillies , and walked stiffly back to his seat in the window , where Neria followed him , and silently sat . 
`` You are not quite well yet , Mr. Gillies , '' said Neria , at length , fancying herself forgotten . 
The dreamy eyes came back from the white-winged ship now sinking below the horizon , and fixed upon her face . 
I can hardly say that ; but I am going away , Miss Neria . '' 
He looked slowly about the room , with a wild , hungry light in his sunken eyes , and Neria 's heart thrilled with a strange fear . 
Gillies glanced sharply at her , and said , quietly , `` It would not be strange if my brain were unsettled , but it is not -- as yet . 
said Neria , softly . 
`` I know what you mean , '' said Neria , softly . 
Neria turned pale , and looked vaguely about the room , as she answered , reluctantly , `` I am afraid of secrets . '' 
`` Mr. Vaughn is far wiser than I -- '' began Neria , but Gillies impatiently moved his hand . 
Moved by his voice and manner , Neria took counsel with herself for a few moments , and then said , `` Can you trust me so far as to tell the secret , and then allow me choice in the matter of accepting the charge it contains ? 
From a locked drawer of his desk he drew a sealed package , and , after attentively examining it , placed it in Neria 's hands . 
Neria took the letter , and , as she touched it , a light shudder ran through her frame . 
asked she , again . 
`` At all events , the trust is inviolable , '' said Neria , solemnly ; but Gillies , who had thrown himself into his chair , with his face to the window , made no reply ; and Neria , unwilling to disturb his reverie , silently left the room . 
In the passage she met old Lazarus Graves , and , with a smile and kind word , passing on , presently found herself breathing more freely in the open air . 
`` How unfortunate , '' said she to herself , `` am I , who dislike secrets so much , and have two of them given to me in one day . '' 
Withoutappearing to see Neria , to whose patient ear he was usually garrulous of the old days in which he lived , Lazarus Graves passed on into the library , and stood , with folded hands and smiling face , looking up and down the room with the humble fondness of a dog who watches his master 's movements . 
`` You have not held to my directions with regard to Neria , '' said he , quietly . 
`` I desired that the knowledge of her birth might be kept from her . 
I desired that no difference should be made between her and Francia , '' said Vaughn . 
Gillies 's few papers was found a will , bequeathing his entire property to Neria . 
But to Neria 's delicate conscience this silence only made her duties more onerous ; and , on the day after the funeral , she went to Cragness , and locking herself into the library , opened and read the letter of instruction left by Reginald Vaughn for the guidance of his first heir . 
Youth is brave , and Neria was too devout a worshipper of truth to be easily daunted by mystery . 
It seemed to her that , if one inquired earnestly after anything , he must be answered by flesh , or spirit , earth , air , or water . 
As an infant may , perchance , see in his first worldly surroundings and attendants the heaven and the angels he has just left behind , Neria fancied every man and woman an Ithuriel , armed with the diamond-pointed spear whose touch must extort truth from its most ingenious involvements . 
So she doubted nothing of discovering at her pleasure this secret , whose responsibility had lain with such nightmare weight upon the musician 's mind , and she only wished that he had sooner taken her into council , that , by seeing the mystery unravelled in his lifetime , he should have been relieved in death of the haunting anxiety and remorse so apparent in their last interview . 
The names of Reuben and Nancy Brume were signed as witnesses to the will , but neither was aware of its contents ; and the natural curiosity upon the subject burning in the mind of each was very pleasantly allayed by Neria 's quiet information that she was now possessor of the estate , and should wish them to continue to fill their present position in the house . 
Neria smiled again , gently , but with such reserve that Mrs. Brume closed her lips upon the piece of advice just ready to issue from them , and asked , instead , `` Have you any d'rections to give , Miss Neria , about the way things are to go here , or shall we just keep on in the old way ? '' 
`` In the old way , '' said Neria , dreamily . 
`` Reub , '' said his wife , `` I ai n't more notional than most folks , but something she said kind o ' ha ` nts me . '' 
Did n't you mind she said she wanted everything kept just as if Gillies had gone off for a little while , and might be back any time . '' 
`` And now , do n't you see , Neria kind o ' sets it to us to stop here and wait just the same fashion for Mr. Gillies to come back ; and , like enough , here we 'll stick , year after year , and year after year , till we kind o ' dry up and lose all our faculties , just as Lahsrus did , and finally they 'll come back and carry us off . 
Andnow , Mr. and Mrs. Livingstone , having completed their visit to Bonniemeer , were on the point of returning to the city , and Claudia insisted that Neria and Francia should accompany them , and make their débutin society under her chaperonage . 
Francia was wild with delight at prospect of the gay life promised her by her cousin , while Neria looked and listened much after the fashion of a fawn , who , wandering to the edge of his native forest , sees suddenly before him a great plain with a city in its midst , its domes glittering , its many-windowed palaces flashing back the morning sun , shaded gardens nestling about it , and an army with plumes and pennons , fanfare of trumpets and flash of accoutrements , winding out of its gates , and stretching like a glittering serpent across the plain . 
So strange , so unlearned , so ominous , and so fascinating lay life before Neria , child of the sea and the sky , her feet set in the path worn deep by the steps of those who have trod it since first it led Eve away from paradise , her head still crowned with the glory lingering around every fresh work of the Divine Artist , her slender fingers folding close above her breast the shining robes of innocence and truth . 
`` Neria in a fashionable assembly ! '' 
`` Neria 's manners are above conventionality , '' said Mr. Vaughn , decisively . 
But Vaughn , smiling , put the question by , and said , `` I suppose both Neria and Francia must mix in society at some time , but I confess I dread to see their country freshness wither in its atmosphere , and my violet and wild rose come back to me as hot-house flowers , all properly labelled and trained , but with neither perfume nor strength left in them . '' 
ejaculated Vaughn , adding with a smile , `` But why only Francia , why is she not also to marry Neria ? '' 
You are resolved to marry Neria yourself . '' 
`` Neria , what are your most obvious sentiments upon the subject ? '' 
asked Neria , with her not unusual look of wistful perplexity ; `` I have none at all . '' 
At present , I have an idea with which to furnish poor Neria 's empty mind . 
Neria , attention ! 
There could n't be anything better suited to Neria . 
Your idea is an inspiration , Claudia , '' exclaimed Francia ; but Neria shivered . 
`` Undine is an ominous character , '' said she . 
`` But to call myself Undine is to invite both , '' said Neria , smiling . 
It would be so much easier to quietly let one 's heart break , than to plot and labor to retain a love that wished to escape , '' said Neria , softly . 
A fine tone of sarcasm rang through the careful modulations of his voice , and was caught by Neria 's sensitive ear . 
She turned to examine more particularly this new guest , of whom she had never heard . 
A slight and elegant figure , small hands and feet , a perfect toilet -- all this was well ; but at the face Neria paused , and finally suspended judgment . 
Either it was very handsome or utterly repulsive , and for the moment she was unable to determine which . 
The clear-cut and regular features were almost faultless , the dark hair suited well with the matcomplexion ; the frequent smile displayed exquisite teeth , but the eyes -- what was there in those furtive eyes that made Neria shrink from their passing glance and shiver as she felt them again resting upon her ? 
The color was peculiar and indescribable , unless , perhaps , one named it yellowish-bronze ; but the expression was something more than peculiar , and suggested to Neria vague ideas of hungry creatures lying ambushed for their prey , of serpents sleeping in deep jungle grass , of a Thug waiting patiently for hours behind his palm tree , while far down the valley the doomed victim comes riding on , his eyes filled with memories of home and love , a smile upon his lips , and hope whispering at his heart . 
Francia bowed with her usual smiling grace , and Neria , with an effort , raised her eyes once more to those so steadily bent upon her . 
She was glad when she had done so , for in this direct gaze she determined that , after all , there was nothing so peculiar about these eyes , except , perhaps , the color ; and with a little feeling of self-reproach for her first impression , she exerted herself to answer , with sufficient courtesy , the enquiries and remarks addressed to her . 
The two young girls turned startled eyes upon their cousin , then Francia laughed , and even Neria 's face swept a tide of color , showing that the deep fountain of her emotions was touched . 
Dr. Lutrell turned gaily toward the couch where Neria and Francia sat together . 
Ah , here is Neria . '' 
Neria approached with Mephistopheles . 
`` I hope you have been as correct in all your intimations as in this , '' said Neria , playfully . 
-- you may bring Neria and the musician together , and get them into a conversation about art . 
Then he turned to look for Neria and the musician , who sat a little way from each other ; she listening with grave attention to the chat between Fergus and the brilliant belle , he apparently absorbed in reverie . 
Thelast guest departed , and as the door closed behind her , Fergus turned to Neria , saying : `` Now , Neria , give me a little real music after the miserable tinkling of that -- Percy do they call him ? 
`` Then I am quite sure I could not please you , monsieur , '' said Neria , gaily ; `` and I must go directly to my room and dress for our drive . 
Neria left the room , and Fergus , with an abstracted look , was following her , when a timid voice recalled him . 
`` You have not been without company , however , '' pursued her cousin , `` I see that Mr. Chilton has established himself here upon a very familiar footing . 
The young man trifled a moment with the toys upon the table , and then said , reproachfully : `` You do not find Neria running into such follies , although she has the same opportunities . '' 
`` Neria is n't so gay -- so -- '' `` So thoughtless as you . 
`` Good morning , '' said Francia , in a tone as cold as his own , and with sparkling eyes and heightened color , she walked toward the window . 
Fluttering , blushing , tearful , she glided to his side , and sweetly looked into his face . 
He took her hand , whispering : `` What is it , Franc ? '' 
He put his arm about her slender waist , he laid his hand beneath her rounded chin , and raising the rosy face that fain would droop , he looked deep , deep into the blue depths of her innocent eyes , and then -- how does it go ? 
When Francia went to her room that night , she stood a long time looking from the window ; and , as she turned away , murmured half aloud : `` But he is my cousin , almost -- just like a brother . '' 
In the drawing-room beyond , Neria , at the piano , softly played `` O Bel Alma ; '' and Percy , standing beside her , improvised a dreamy accompaniment . 
But the story that the musician told , the question that he asked , and the tender , mournful denial that Neria returned to his petition , are not now our concern . 
It was the moment when Percy and Neria , standing hand in hand , looked farewell into each others ' eyes . 
Rafe Chilton had drawn his chair close to Francia 's side , and while toying with her fan , murmured behind it words to which she listened with blushing , half-averted face and down-dropped eyes . 
Withslight notice of his sister or the rest , Fergus passed into the other room , and standing beside Neria , said impatiently , `` When are you going home , I wonder ? '' 
Neria placed her cool hand upon his . 
`` Dear Fergus , '' said she , `` can not you make your circle of tolerance a little larger ? 
`` Others are not like you , Neria , '' said the young man , in a softer tone . 
`` How much does Francia care , when she encourages that profligate fellow , after the expression of my disapprobation ; after her own promise to give up his acquaintance ? '' 
Neria looked troubled , but presently answered cheerily , `` Franc is so charming and so much admired , that we must be reconciled to seeing a good deal of homage offered at her shrine , and sometimes by unworthy worshippers . 
It does not harm her , and by-and-by she will be tired of her position as divinity . 
`` We women have four seasons like the year , '' and it is spring-time with her yet . '' 
`` Some women 's spring-time has all the freshness of her 's without its crudeness , '' said Fergus , smiling into Neria 's eyes . 
`` But not the rich and glowing promise , '' returned Neria , half sadly . 
You have not been kind to her for some weeks . '' 
`` Because she has allowed Chilton to haunt her like her shadow . '' 
`` To be unkind to her yourself , is only to make his courtesies seem the more agreeable . 
She is coming in here , and I shall go away and leave you to make friends . 
Francia approached with a nervous smile upon her flushed face . 
`` I thought Mr. Percy was here , '' said she to Neria , but glancing timidly at Fergus while she spoke . 
Francia seated herself , played a simple prelude with faltering fingers , and tried to sing ; but in the first notes her voice trembled , broke , and in a sudden burst of tears she ran away from the piano , and sought shelter in the deep baywindow . 
With an expressive glance at Fergus , Neria went into the other room , and seated herself near Vaughn , who was carrying on a desultory conversation with Mr. Livingstone . 
said he , softly , as he seated himself beside her . 
`` I do n't think you have loved me very much this last month , '' murmured Francia out of her handkerchief . 
cried she . 
So Neria found her an hour later when Vaughn , the last of the guests , had departed , saying to his ward as he bade her good-night , `` I have something to say to you to-morrow . 
So it was to Perry 's Woods that Vaughn and Neria rode upon the breezy March morning when he spoke . 
Neria sat upon her white palfrey , and with her smiling eyes seemed to gather in and taken possession of the scene until its charm incorporated itself in her being , and shone forth again , adding a new and subtle beauty to what had seemed finished already . 
Vaughn looked only at her , and the love of a man 's strong nature made his face as that of a god . 
She turned suddenly , and met his eyes -- met and read them , and her sweet face grew pale . 
He took her hand . 
`` Neria , where are the words that I should say to you ? 
You have so little of earth , dear Neria , that I can not ask you to mate yourself with me , who , alas , am all of earth ; but , sweet , if I may wear you on my heart as a blessed amulet , if I may stand between the world and you , and you shall stand between Heaven and me -- if I may help you to make others happy , and you will help me to mend much that is amiss in my own life -- Neria , if you will be the angel in my house and in my heart , then can I ask no more of Heaven than to give me life and grace to show continually how I prize its gift . '' 
The sweet content of the spring-morning changed on Neria 's face to doubt and alarm . 
`` Sieur , I have not thought of this , '' said she , simply . 
If you can not give yourself to me frankly and fully , Neria , tell me so at once , and we will forget all this , and you shall be again to me a daughter , a trust ; something to be loved , and guarded , and reverenced , as Arthur 's knights guarded the San Grail , though no man among them dared lay finger upon it . '' 
It was that very evening , as Vaughn sat alone in the twilight of the deserted drawing-room , that the faint perfume always enveloping Neria , suddenly floated around his head , although he had heard no step , and a slender hand crept within his own . 
Neria 's consternation and regret upon first hearing of Francia 's engagement were extreme Her pure and true instincts had always negatived any feeling of admiration for Mr. Chilton 's appearance or manners , and her sympathy with Fergus caused her painfully to appreciate the severe disappointment and sorrow underlying his silent displeasure . 
She , however , said but little upon the subject , especially to Francia , whom she treated with an added tenderness and delicacy , sufficiently expressed by Francia 's playful wish , that she were a little girl instead of a great one , that she might call Neria mother . 
It was arranged that Neria 's quiet marriage should take place as soon as its preliminaries could be arranged , and that until then she and Francia should remain with Claudia , while Vaughn vacillated between the city and Bonniemeer , where he was pleasing his luxurious taste by some alterations and new furnishings in honor of the bride who was to be . 
Vaughn drew Neria close to his side . 
said Neria , brightly . 
Neria looked at him a little wonderingly , and then raised her face heavenward with a smile of serene satisfaction ; but whether evoked by his words or the joyous scene , Vaughn did not dare inquire . 
`` Come , spirit , '' said he , leading her toward the house , `` I am afraid to let you stay here , lest you suddenly float away and leave me desolate . 
Neria regarded him with a dreamy smile , and softly said , `` I can not tell . 
`` But I have always loved and reverenced you , '' returned Neria , with the pathetic intonation peculiar to her voice when she found herself perplexed or troubled . 
Vaughn smiled a little dubiously , and led her into the house . 
He threw open the door and Neria , standing upon the threshold , uttered a little cry of delight . 
The arched ceiling , divided into four compartments by heavy mullions , represented in fresco , Venus rising from the sea , surrounded by rosy little Loves ; Arion riding his dolphin , and drawing all the creatures of the deep to listen to his wonderful melodies ; the nymph Tyro yielding half coy , half willing to the wooing of Neptune , who drew her toward his wave-borne chariot ; and last , an exquisite design showing a fair child asleep in a great sea-shell floating upon a smiling sea , and rocked by the tiny hands of Nereids , whose sweet faces and shining hair floated above the waves , while their gleaming shapes showed fairly through the pure water . 
A little book-rack was filled with the poets Neria loved , the volumes bound in silk of the same tint as the hangings of the room . 
asked Vaughn , who had watched , with loving delight , the varying expression of Neria 's face as she silently made the tour of the little chamber , gathering in all its beauty with her swift and comprehensive glances . 
As he spoke she came toward him and raised her lips to his with innocent grace . 
asked she . 
Neria , you do not know , you do not faintly guess how much I love you . 
Neria , love me as I love you ! '' 
And Neria , pale , passive , disturbed , answered in her plaintive voice , `` I do love you , Sieur -- I love you very much . '' 
Taking the slender hands of his girl-wife in one of his , he looked down into her troubled face for a moment , then smiled a little sadly , and tenderly smoothed her hair . 
Neria mutely obeyed , but when she was left alone could not rest for wondering why the love that had always seemed good and sufficient in Vaughn 's eyes , had suddenly grown so inadequate to satisfy him . 
asked Vaughn , merrily , as he entered the boudoir where Neria , pale and pensive , sat reading aloud to Francia , who wrought at some embroidery secretly destined to adorn those `` wedding clothes '' over which the idlest little maiden grows industrious . 
asked Francia , eagerly , while Neria raised her languid eyes to her husband 's face . 
`` Should n't you , Neria ? '' 
`` I do n't believe I should , '' said Neria , slightly smiling . 
`` No , indeed , Neria ; I should n't think of letting you make such a sacrifice ; nor can I imagine any combination of person and place so incongruous as you in the ball-room of the Mermaid 's Cave , '' said Vaughn . 
`` If Franc likes to go , I will take her . 
`` Then Iam not incongruous , papa , '' pouted Francia , so comically that her father kissed her ripe lips , as he answered , `` You are a little girl , and it is of small consequence what you do or leave undone . '' 
She suited the action to the word , and suddenly found herself lifted from the floor and borne round the room in a very secure , if not a very dignified , position . 
`` There , now go and ask your mamma what you shall wear , and do n't be too fine for the company , '' said her father , replacing her upon the ottoman where he had found her , and seating himself in such a position as to get Neria 's profile against the green background of the hangings . 
exclaimed Francia , laying her bright head upon Neria 's lap and looking up into her face . 
`` Something that may be washed afterward , I should say , '' rejoined Neria . 
`` And a little more fishy , '' suggested her father . 
`` Well , Neria can bear to go to their houses and stay whole hours , seeing to sick people and babies and all ; so I think I may dance with them one evening ! '' 
`` Yes , indeed ; I was only jesting , '' said Neria . 
`` Or your coral , lest they should think you mean lobsters , '' added Neria . 
`` Neria goes among them , not for her own pleasure , but for their good , '' suggested Vaughn , significantly . 
`` And so do I , '' declared she . 
`` Thank you , papa , '' said she , shyly taking it from her father 's hand and running away to read it . 
Left alone with him , Neria glanced doubtfully at her husband , who was attentively regarding her , then , opening the book in her hand , asked , `` Shall I read to you from ` Aurora Leigh ? ' '' 
Neria , you grow paler and thinner every day ; your cheerfulness is forced , and you are never joyous . 
You are totally changed from the Neria who married me two months ago , and I have seen the change working , day by day , from the very morning of our arrival here . 
He took her hand in his . 
It was cold as death , and every trace of color had left her face , while , in the large , luminous eyes , such a depth of sorrow , doubt , apprehension , expressed themselves , that Vaughn , covering his face with his hands , groaned aloud . 
`` O , Neria , Neria , '' cried he , `` you will die , and it is my love that is killing you . '' 
Neria softly laid her hand upon his head . 
`` Have a little patience , Sieur , '' said she . 
Neria , I see it now -- I see better than you can see yourself , the struggle that has almost killed you ; I feel your sublime self-renunciation and my own blind selfishness far more acutely than you could ever feel them . 
I have watched you from day to day , and said , ` she is weary , ' ` she is ill , ' ` she is pre-occupied ; ' ` to-morrow , or the day after , it will be different , and in the end she will love me . ' 
Neria , from this moment I am your father , your brother , your friend -- what you will . 
Dimly as the words of an unknown tongue , this voice reached Neria 's heart , and , though she could not comprehend its suffering , she instinctively tried to solace it . 
`` But we loved each other very much in those days , Sieur , '' said she ; `` and so do I love you very much now . 
`` As well , and better , my Psyche , if you will be as happy as you were then , '' said Vaughn , raising to meet her gaze , his face pale , but resolutely calm . 
`` I will be as happy as you could wish , '' said Neria , joyously , as she lightly kissed his brow . 
So Neria , who would silently have broken her heart and died , rather than consciously embitter any existence that God had created , accepted the sacrifice of a man 's life as simply as she would a flower ; and Vaughn , devoting himself to a future of constant watchfulness , self-restraint , and feigned content , knew that his sacrifice must remain unappreciated , unthanked , forever -- for not the most implacable coquette is so pitiless to the man who worships her as is the wife who knows not how to love . 
So far he had arranged the weary programme , when Neria 's voice , blither than it had sounded for many a day , said , `` I am so glad you thought to say this to me , Sieur ; and now let us forget it , and quietly return to our old ways . 
Vaughn stared at her as might a man preparing himself for death , if asked whether he preferred his cravat tied in a bow or a knot . 
Neria smiled merrily . 
`` A penny for your thoughts , '' said she . 
Vaughn smiled back her smile , and then abruptly left the room , feeling that he could bear no more just then . 
Her father and Neria acquiesced in what seemed to give her so much pleasure , although neither of them could feel any great delight in the prospect of seeing Ralfe Chilton , or extending their acquaintance with his family . 
The door opened to admit , first , Neria , looking like the spirit of the mist , in her dun-colored barege and green ribbons , then Francia , radiant in a diaphanous white tulle and coquettish little bows of violet ribbon that contrasted well with her clear complexion and sparkling eyes . 
Chilton went to meet her , and his whispered admiration did not lessen the bloom he admired or soothe the flutter of spirits in little Francia 's heart . 
Neria did not know more of boys than she did of men , but a graceful instinct led her to his side . 
asked she , smiling , as she followed his eyes . 
Neria was a little surprised , but smiled unaffectedly . 
`` You sailors learn flattery with navigation , I believe , '' said she . 
The question was solved by Neria herself , who , while still speaking to him , quietly slipped her hand under Vaughn 's arm , and thus doubly attended , followed Francia , who was already seated in the carriage . 
Anything you 'd rather have , so 's ' t we know it , '' suggested Captain Wild , who had engaged Neria as his partner . 
asked she , in some surprise . 
Neria expressed her appreciation of the politeness , but begged that the dance might go on in its regular order . 
Neria was forced to acknowledge that she had never seen it , and begged to have the figure explained beforehand . 
In those crowded rooms , cotillons and the round dances are more convenient , '' replied Neria , quite seriously . 
asked Neria , almost as much surprised as the captain had been at her ignorance of Fisher 's Hornpipe . 
`` O no , '' exclaimed Neria , alarmed . 
Trypheny , a tall , handsome brunette , who had just come in with the fine-looking young fisherman alluded to as Zeb , took her place in the impromptu set , and received Mr. Chilton 's bold look of admiration with a conscious smile and toss of the head , which made Zeb 's eyes travel wrathfully in the direction of her coquettish glance . 
He led Neria to the top of the set already forming ; Francia and young Merton came next , and next to them Chilton with Trypheny , whom he had quietly invited while she was leaning upon the arm of her lover , who had not considered it necessary to explicitly engage her for the first dance , supposing it an already conceded privilege . 
`` Rafe is making a fool of that girl , and she does n't know it , '' whispered Francia , laughingly , to Neria , who shook her head disapprovingly ; while Vaughn , who did not dance , watched the movements of the young man with an uneasy eye . 
The music began , and Neria , floating up and down the long lines , and through the intricacies of `` cast-off '' and right and left , with perfect grace and accuracy , seemed to shed upon the homely dance and dancers an atmosphere of fitness and refinement not always to be found among the dances and dancers of the salons . 
Next came Francia , who , commencing with the gravest propriety of bearing , found herself , before she reached the end , so carried away by the exhilarating motion , the sharp , quick time of the melody , and the half subdued impulse of her partner , that not Trypheny herself made the chassédown the middle so rapidly , or reached the foot in such a state of breathless mirth . 
`` Take care , little girl , '' whispered her father , as she returned to his side ; `` do n't fall into the other extreme , and be too familiar instead of too supercilious . 
Watch Neria , and see how she bears herself . '' 
The message was transmitted , and Francia floated away upon the arm of her lover , who , however he might fail in certain traits of morality and honor , certainly possessed the cardinal virtue of dancing , to perfection , while Francia herself deserved the title of Terpsichore . 
`` Thank you , but I only waltz with Mr. Vaughn , '' said Neria , in a low voice ; and Ned went to look among his new friends for some one who knew how to waltz . 
Neria 's style had also its peculiarity . 
In dancing , especially in waltzing , she seemed to lose her slight affinity for earth altogether , and airily glided over the floor like a dream of beauty , visible but immaterial . 
`` Lean upon my arm a little , my mist-wreath , '' murmured Vaughn , drawing her closer to his breast . 
Neria glanced smiling up , and her warm , pure breath swept his cheek . 
Vaughn could hardly repress the wild desire to raise her in his arms , and cover those smiling lips with the kisses tingling on his own . 
With a terrible effort he paused , and released her from his embrace . 
`` That is enough , '' said he , abruptly , and Neria looked wonderingly into his face for the cause of the harsh change in his tone . 
asked she , kindly . 
Neria only answered with a smile , and the music ceased . 
`` Take partners for chorus jig , '' shouted Jonas Merton , and Captain Wild , after a whispered word with Mr. Vaughn , presented the young fisherman called Zeb to Francia as `` Mr. Lewis , '' while an aspirant for Neria 's hand appeared in the shape of an uncouth lobster-catcher , named Barrows , whose bandy legs , crooked fingers , and beady black eyes would of themselves have suggested his avocation . 
Neria , a little startled , and not a little repelled , replied to his invitation somewhat coldly . 
Neria 's quick feelings were touched , and she made room upon the bench beside her . 
`` I do not know this dance , '' said she . 
pursued Neria , smiling in spite of herself at the gaping look of admiration with which the lobster man regarded her . 
A fewweeks after the ball , the post brought in a letter from Mrs. Livingstone to Neria , in which among other matters she mentioned that Dr. Luttrell was looking for a quiet house upon the sea-shore where he might spend the summer with his wife , who was very much of an invalid , and suggested that Cragness would probably suit him exactly , and give some pleasant neighbors to Bonniemeer . 
This suggestion Neria referred at once to Vaughn , without even confessing a certain repugnance in her own mind , to seeing strangers installed in the shadowy rooms so associated in her mind with her old friend and teacher , Gillies . 
Vaughn , however , who had seldom been at Cragness , and regarded it simply as a piece of property , thought it very well to turn it to account , and in compliance with his advice , Neria answered Claudia 's quasiapplication so favorably that in the course of a few days , Dr. Luttrell himself came down to look at the premises , previous to engaging them . 
It was to Neria , then , that Mrs. Barlow came one day , and , after some preamble , inquired if Mrs. Vaughn knew that Chloe was in the occasional habit of leaving the house privately , in the middle of the night , and absenting herself for several hours . 
Neria quietly assured her that she had done quite right in speaking , and promising to attend to the matter , dismissed the housekeeper , -LRB- a worthy , but commonplace woman , whose pride of office had been somewhat wounded by Mr. Vaughn 's injunction -RRB- , far better satisfied with her position and her mistress than she had been inclined to find herself . 
It was on the ensuing night that Neria , unable to sleep , sat at her window , dreamily enjoying the beauty of the moonlight view , and listening to the distant beat of the rising tide upon the beach . 
The low sound of a closing door startled her from her reverie , for the hour was past midnight , and the orderly household had long since retired to rest . 
Swift and silent as a shadow , Neria followed , bearing with her the perfume of the roses and the lilies , that opened wide their chalices to cast incense upon her path , for all Nature loved Neria , as Neria loved Nature . 
Through the garden and through the dim oak wood they passed , until at its farther edge Neria paused , and , holding herself in the shadow , watched attentively the motions of the old negress , who , advancing to the foot of an oak tree , standing by itself in a little glade , busied herself in removing from its hollow interior an accumulation of brush and leaves . 
These she laid on one side , and then , thrusting her arm far into the cavity , groped for a few moments , and finally brought out an immense toad . 
Him she set upon the ground in the moonlight , and , prostrating herself before him , appeared to offer some prayer or supplication , to which the singular deity ungraciously replied by sparkling eyes and swelling throat . 
Rising to her feet , the negress described , with the sharp-pointed stick in her hand , a circle some three feet in diameter upon the sward , and , baring her head and feet , paced three times around it , chanting in a dim unearthly voice some barbarous rune , ending with a wild wail to which the screech-owl in the neighboring wood shrieked response . 
The circle complete , the negress placed the toad carefully in its centre , and describing another circle precisely similar , took her own position in its midst in an attitude as nearly resembling that of the toad as her form was capable of assuming . 
She now addressed to him some words , still in the unknown tongue of the chant ; and after waiting a few moments , and finding that he remained motionless , took from her pocket a little vial and poured upon his head a few drops of liquid , which apparently put the poor creature into a state of frantic pain , causing him to writhe , leap , and contort himself into every possible shape . 
This she carefully wrapped in the leaf of a plant which she had plucked as she came through the wood , and then turned her steps toward home , passing close beside Neria , whose slender figure was hidden by the trunk of a giant oak . 
Neria , who was close behind , heard the heavy bolts shot into their places , and remained for a moment in doubt as to her own course , not wishing to let the negress know that she had been watched , and yet seeing no other way of effecting her own entrance . 
After a moment of hesitation , she glided along the terrace to the window of the little room used as Vaughn 's private study . 
This room communicated with her own apartments by a winding stair , and Vaughn had of late converted it into a sleeping-room , averring that his late and uncertain hours of retiring made it more convenient . 
The maidenly instincts which Neria 's brief and peculiar married life had not overcome , made her hesitate and tremble in tapping at this window , and when at last she did , it was so lightly that Vaughn , lying awake to indulge the bitter thoughts which in the daylight he was better able to withstand , hardly knew whether the sound were other than the pattering of the vine leaves against the glass . 
Neria , shrinking away from the window , stood motionless , draped in her dark cloak , her pale face dimly showing beneath the hood , the moonlight sparkling in the dew-drops that gemmed her drooping head . 
`` Neria ! '' 
asked Neria , dubiously . 
He drew her in at the window with the word , and as she lay a moment in his arms , pressed his lips to hers . 
She smiled , but struggled to her feet . 
He immediately released her , and asked , gravely , `` Why are you out so late , and so thinly dressed , dear child ? 
Neria sank into an arm-chair , for she was indeed almost exhausted , and told her story as briefly as she might . 
Her husband listened attentively . 
asked Neria , a little surprised at his hesitation . 
`` None , '' said Neria , hesitating . 
She fell into a fit of aguish shivering as she spoke , and raised her face to Vaughn like a little child who seeks protection . 
He stooped and took her in his arms , gathering her to his broad breast with an impulse of yearning tenderness not to be withstood . 
Neria nestled into his arms and laid her head upon his breast , with a sigh of content . 
Did Neria love him at last , wife-like ? 
He pressed her to his heart , he covered her lips , her eyes , her brow , her hair with kisses ; he murmured in her ear every caressing name , every passionate endearment which he had been wont in half-bitter , half-plaintive mockery to lavish upon her picture , her glove , her airy image . 
But with an unmistakable movement of repugnance , Neria repulsed him , and extricating herself from his embrace , hurried to the door of the staircase leading to her own apartments . 
Vaughn followed , and , seizing her by the hand , demanded passionately , `` Why do you leave me thus ? 
said Neria , faintly . 
She snatched away her hand , and groped for the handle of the door , swayed heavily forward , and fell swooning upon the stairs . 
With a sharp revulsion of feeling , Vaughn raised her again in his arms , bore her reverently up the stairs , and laid her upon a couch near the open window . 
He applied it to her temples and poured some drops into her mouth . 
In a few moments she revived , opened her eyes , turned them upon Vaughn , shrank away and closed them again . 
He took her hand . 
Neria sat upright , her white face , gleaming eyes , and cloudy hair , giving her the look of the angel of tears and sorrow . 
She raised her hands in unconscious deprecation of her own words as she said , `` O , Sieur , how can I bear to tell it you , but I fear I never can ; I fear that if we are to be happy at all , if even I am to live at all , you must never again forget what you have promised . 
The plaintive tone in her voice deepened to a heart-break , and as she finished speaking , she fell into a passion of tears and sobs , shaking her slender form to its centre . 
It was the first time in all her life that Vaughn had seen her weep , and he was more terrified than he had been when she swooned . 
Presently he took Neria 's hand . 
Forgive me , Neria , and show that you forgive , by never in your inmost heart again wishing me the terrible punishment of your death . '' 
He waited for no reply , but was gone ; and presently stepping from the window where Neria had entered , he sought the wood , and wandered there until the night was done , the summer night of moon , and stars , and richest balm of dewy flowers , and dreamy chirrup of half-awakened birds , and wooing whispers of the warm west wind , and solemn diapason of the distant sea ; and yet , the night than which no night was ever blacker , or fiercer , or more blankly starless in the life of Frederic Vaughn . 
Thedays had come when the `` blood-red blossom of war '' bloomed upon our fields , and the tocsin was loudly summoning her laborers to reap the harvest which , sown by anarchy and oppression , is in the divine order of events to be gathered into the garners of peace and widest liberty . 
Himself he had withheld , for he had said he was no more his own , but Neria 's . 
The next day after his decisive interview with Neria he applied for a commission as colonel , volunteering to raise and equip the color company of a new regiment at his own expense . 
Heedful even of Neria 's fantasy , as he deemed it , he sent for Chloe to his study , and closely questioned her touching her nocturnal rambles ; without , however , telling her how he had heard of them . 
The management of his large property he continued in the hands of Jones , Brown , and Robinson , the hereditary advisers of his house ; but for a personal and confidential adviser in any difficulty , Vaughn recommended Neria to apply to Mr. Murray , whose talents as a business man were undeniable , and whose interest in the concerns of his kinsman 's family was not to be doubted , although occasionally shown in a somewhat unadvised manner . 
Neria acquiesced in everything , listened patiently to her husband 's minute directions and council , and opposed none of his arrangements , not even the primary one of leaving home . 
Indeed , since the hour when the decisive though involuntary expression of her distaste for his love had so wounded Vaughn 's heart , Neria had grown timid , silent , and pre-occupied ; brooding , not as her husband bitterly told himself , over the untoward fate that had bound her , past release , to his side , but perplexing herself afresh over the yet unsolved mysteries of love , of her own life , and of man 's nature . 
At home , Neria and Francia wrought silently at the great silken banner destined to be borne by the men of Carrick , who had answered to Vaughn 's spirited appeal for their support and assistance so unanimously that the corps d'honneurwhich he proposed to raise , was almost entirely composed of men who had either grown up with him , or who had from boyhood looked upon him as their natural leader and adviser . 
TheLuttrells were settled at Cragness after several delays on account of weather and the health of the invalid ; and Neria , with Francia , drove over to call upon them . 
While Francia , always fluent and at ease , made talk upon the weather and the debilitating influence of the first hot days , Neria looked at the invalid with a painful and perplexed interest . 
It had so chanced that they had never met in the city , and Neria found it impossible to account for the impulse of tenderness and sympathy now possessing her . 
She could not even decide whether the face of the invalid was more prepossessing or painful in its wan loveliness . 
Her slender hands , too , Neria noticed had assumed an unnatural pearly whiteness and a stiff and laborious motion , while beneath the nails appeared a violet tinge instead of the rose-red hue of health . 
Her manner , too , was changed . 
In a pause of the chat , which even Francia found it hard to sustain , Neria kindly inquired if Mrs. Luttrell found benefit from the sea air . 
Inquiring if Neria had seen the sunset of the preceding night , Luttrell launched into some new theories of atmospheric effects , solar rays , and the aurora ; had some new discoveries in the moon to narrate ; and , with a turning toward Francia , closed with a droll story of a farmer who must cut his salt hay in apogee , and , because his work pressed , sent to Cambridge to request that apogee might be put off a week or two , offering to pay `` anything in reason '' for the accommodation . 
A sudden impulse drew Neria 's eyes to Mrs. Luttrell 's face as these words were spoken , in time to see the doubt , the terror , the torturing uncertainty , deepening and deepening in the great blue eyes , while they dwelt as earnestly upon the speaker 's face as might those of a child on the page where is written a fascinating tale in an unknown tongue . 
Neria found herself oppressed and agitated with the mystery floating around her , and blending with the old mystery of the place , which had of late begun to haunt her with a sense of duty unfulfilled . 
She glanced at Francia and rose to go . 
I like Doctor Luttrell ever so much , '' returned Francia , positively ; and Neria said , pointing to the headland before them , `` See the Lion 's Head against the evening sky . 
Neria watched the effect of this movement upon Francia with much interest , for it had been too obvious during the last few weeks that some great anxiety or doubt had taken possession of the child 's mind , and was exerting a morbid influence on her character . 
Neria , fastidiously delicate in her fear of intrusion upon the personality of others , asked no questions -- refrained , even , from that mute sympathy which sometimes is more intrusive than a direct appeal ; and Francia , for the first time in her life , seemed inclined for meditation rather than speech , so that , whatever lay beneath the surface , life at Bonniemeer went on as usual . 
Two or three weeks had passed after this fashion , when , one morning , as Neria was about sending to Cragness to inquire for Mrs. Luttrell , Francia offered to ride over herself . 
`` Mr. Chilton will be here soon , I suppose , '' suggested Neria , glancing at her watch . 
`` Very well , dear , '' said Neria , a little puzzled , for she knew that Francia had once minded neither heat nor cold , and would have thought it little to wait hours for her lover 's company . 
The black pony was brought round , and as Francia , settling herself in the saddle , glanced toward the window with a nod and smile , Neria was struck with the change a few weeks had wrought in her face . 
From very pretty she had become lovely . 
The night of a year ago , when -- she crowning him with water-lilies -- Fergus had called Francia Undine , floated into Neria 's memory , and while she thought , `` It is the soul slowly crystallizing in the midst of her life that I see in her eyes to-day , '' she sighed . 
Francia did her errand , and heard from Mrs. Brume that the invalid was no better -- in fact , grew daily worse ; and , to the inquiry if Mrs. Vaughn could send her anything , or offer any service , Nancy replied , with some hesitation , `` Well , if you or Miss Vaughn could come and set up a night with her , I should be dreadful glad , for there 's no one but the doctor and me , and we 're pretty near tuckered out . 
That evening , when Mr. Chilton appeared at Bonniemeer , very ill at ease , and as doubtful of his reception as he had a right to be , he found Francia seated with Neria in the drawing-room . 
She bade him a courteous good-evening , but made no movement to meet him , asked no questions as to his occupations through the day , showed neither displeasure nor pique toward him , or indeed evinced any emotion whatever ; and the slight shade of reserve pervading her demeanor was so delicately drawn as to give no ground for comment , or warrant any appeal for explanation . 
When he was gone , Francia rose , and , flitting restlessly about the room for a few moments , came and threw herself upon the floor at Neria 's feet , laying her head upon her lap . 
It had been a favorite attitude of hers till lately , and Neria fondly smoothed the bright brown hair that rippled beneath her fingers like the tiny waves of a sunlit sea . 
`` Neria , darling , what shall I do ? '' 
`` Ask your own heart , dear , not me , '' said Neria , sadly . 
asked the girl , earnestly , while she raised a pale face to the mournful one bent over her , and Neria said : `` O , Franc , how dare I advise you ? 
They kissed and bade good-night , each taking for her companion through the sleepless hours , the Gordian knot which life presents to every one of us , and which most of us spend our years in the effort to unravel , finally perhaps borrowing of despair a sword to sever , not the knot , but the life entangled in it . 
With the morning came Fergus , an unexpected envoy from his father to Neria , upon some matter of business . 
The ladies were together when he arrived , and from Neria he turned to Francia , who found beneath the courteousness of his greeting , a formality and constraint that she , sighing , told herself had been unknown to the old time . 
She sat while he talked with Neria , and listened , not to his words but to his tones , firm , deep , and resolute . 
She looked through her long lashes at his face ; it was perhaps a little thinned , but full of energy and determination . 
At sound of the sigh Fergus glanced toward her , but directly averted his eyes , and continued his conversation with Neria . 
So Francia took her sick heart to the solitude of her chamber , and there listening to its moanings , determined upon an experiment for its relief , in the heroic style of treatment . 
He came in , and encountered Fergus , and although Neria exerted herself to fulfil every hospitable obligation to even an unwelcome guest , Mr. Chilton found the atmosphere of Bonniemeer so oppressive that he declined an invitation to dinner , and departed , to return in the evening . 
Francia did not show herself until tea-time , when she came down stairs , pale , but with such an expression on her face that Neria looking at her , thought `` she has resolved . '' 
Tea over , Neria was called from the room a moment , and Francia , trembling very much but still , with the heroic mood uppermost , said , quietly : `` Fergus , I should like to speak to you . 
Her cousin looked at her with ill-concealed suspense , but replied : `` Certainly , I shall be very happy to do so . 
`` If Mr. Chilton calls , please say I am out , '' added Francia , to the servant , as she and her cousin passed through the hall . 
asked Neria , when Francia had given the experiences of her arduous watch . 
It will be too much for you , Neria . '' 
`` You are nothing that would prevent your doing good to other people , '' said Francia , fondly , and sighed at her own deficiencies , while Neria 's heart contracted with a sharp pain as she thought of Vaughn and the good she had wrought in his life . 
When Neria arrived at Cragness she was received by Dr. Luttrell , who announced that he should share her watch , as the condition of the patient was so critical that the end might be expected at almost any moment . 
They stood together in the library while he said this , and Neria raised her eyes to his face with some expression of sympathy and concern upon her lips , but the words died in an incoherent murmur as she looked . 
The vigilant eyes did not fail to perceive and interpret Neria 's gaze . 
They flashed upon her and away , then back , with a steady daring , and held hers , while the dry lips said : `` You find me changed , Mrs. Vaughn . 
`` You must be very much fatigued , '' said Neria , slowly , as she tried to analyze the ominous echo of these words in her mind . 
`` I beg , '' continued she , earnestly , `` that you will trust me with the sole charge to-night , and try to rest yourself thoroughly for to-morrow . '' 
Like enough I sha n't more 'n get my forty winks ` fore I 'm called up , '' said she ; and Neria followed , without reply , to a large and gloomy chamber upon the second floor , where lay the sick woman , a pale spectre , shadowed and surrounded by dark bed-hangings and furniture , that seemed to oppress the air of the room with their funereal atmosphere . 
With these words she departed , and Neria , approaching the bed , looked compassionately down at the patient , who had altered sensibly for the worse since she had last seen her . 
Her eyes , showing supernaturally large in her ghastly and emaciated face , were wide open and glazed . 
The parted lips were parched and blackened , and Neria tenderly moistened them with some water in a goblet upon the little stand beside the bed . 
`` You are Michael , the angel who fights with the devil , '' said she , quietly . 
She laid her hand upon her chest , and looked piteously into Neria 's face , bending above her with a divine compassion in its every line . 
Neria took the thin , white hands in hers . 
She pressed and chafed them in her own . 
`` Ah , that is comfortable , '' said she . 
She rose in her bed , and , with a long , white finger , pointed past Neria , while in her eyes the look of terror and foreboding dawning there when she first came to Cragness shone full-moon . 
Neria glanced quickly over her shoulder . 
`` Neria did not answer . 
She was held by the glittering eyes that seemed imperiously to demand of her her inmost thought . 
For a moment she quailed and grew confused , but then a great wave of divine strength and power seemed to swell through her soul , filling it with a serene assurance . 
But he 'll be back in a moment , '' gasped the sick woman , who still sat upright , clinging to Neria , while her staring eyes and pointing finger seemed plunging into the darkness in pursuit of the object of her terror . 
As Neria turned to answer and soothe her , a stealthy foot crept over the carpet , and before she knew that he was near , Dr. Luttrell 's voice said , significantly , `` You see that my wife is very ill , quite out of her senses , in fact , and as frequently is the case in mania , her fancies are the direct opposite of her impressions when sane . 
Neria made no answer but watched him attentively . 
So did his wife , who lay now perfectly quiet , her whole consciousness apparently absorbed in the wary questioning look she fixed upon him . 
Luttrell drew a little nearer to her , and , still pressing his hand upon her brow , seem to plunge the concentrated rays of his burning eyes into hers , which soon began to waver , to droop , and finally closed altogether , while from beneath the long fair lashes , great tears stole out , and ran down the pallid cheeks . 
`` She is asleep , '' said Dr. Luttrell , turning toward Neria , but not meeting her eyes . 
`` On the contrary , '' said Neria , quickly . 
He glanced swiftly at her , and said , carelessly , `` As you please , of course . 
He glided away as he spoke , and presently Neria saw him light the shaded lamp and seat himself to read , in such a position that his eyes commanded both the bed and the chair in which she sat beside it . 
The night wore on , as slowly as it always wears for those who wake while others sleep ; and Neria , who had laid her watch upon the little table at her side , could hardly believe that its slender hands moved at all , so reluctantly did they creep over the dial . 
For the first two hours she was painfully conscious that the eyes of the motionless figure in the other room were fixed upon herself , and her own gaze wandered perpetually from the pallid sleeper at her side , to the circle of light beneath the reading lamp , showing a book , two white hands , a dark-clad figure as high as the breast , and nothing more , except the occasional gleam of two bright points a little higher , flashing out of the darkness toward her . 
As he dropped to sleep , the corpse-like figure in the bed stirred slightly , and Neria turning , found the eyes of her charge fixed upon her face in a dumb appeal for help , not to be misunderstood or denied . 
asked she , softly . 
She paused , still looking with anxious entreaty into the heavenly face above her . 
`` I do not know , '' said she , slowly . 
`` Certainly , '' said Neria , a little surprised at the request , and taking the night-lamp from the fireplace she opened the wardrobe , found the glass without difficulty , and , as she brought it toward the bed , curiously examined its singular and admirable workmanship . 
A golden serpent resting on his coil , reared aloft his swelling throat and evil head , between whose wide distended jaws was fixed a bubble-like bowl of ruby glass , capable of holding , perhaps , a spoonful of some priceless nectar -- nectar such as that with which la Borgia stilled the too urgent reproaches of her injured lovers ; and as Neria slightly turned it in her hand , the faint lamplight striking through the ruby bowl flashed down upon the scaly folds of the serpent , and glanced off with a gleam like trickling blood . 
She held it before the weary eyes , that momently grew heavier and duller . 
Neria took the vial -- a very small one , without label , and about half filled with a colorless , odorless liquid -- uncorked it , and was inclining it toward the glass , when Mrs. Luttrell said , hastily , `` Put the glass on the table first , for fear . ' 
Neria , without question , did as desired , and , setting the cup upon the table , filled it half full . 
Dr. Luttrell , startled from his sleep , sprang hastily to his feet , approached the table , saw all , understood all , and turned to Neria with the look upon his face of Satan summoned to answer for his conspiracy . 
She confronted him as did Michael confront that Satan . 
I knew you loved her better than me always , but you might have told me , and let me go away somewhere out of your sight , and die of my broken heart as surely , and less painfully . 
The eyelids drooped , but again slowly opened , and with the last instinct of vitality the eyes turned to those of Luttrell , while from their blue depths arose once more the solemn question , whose answer was Death , and stood there patiently -- stood , even when Neria , with trembling hands , had closed over it the lids that could not hide it , stood there when the pale form lay encoffined , when the earth was laid upon it ; and when he , the mourner , came back to his lonely home , the question was there before him , always , everywhere , waiting , waiting , always waiting , till it forced the answer to his own eyes , and he shrank away from men lest they should read it there -- shrank most of all from Neria , of whom the dying woman had bid him beware , as the angel whom God had sent to write the secret upon his brow . 
`` Sodisasters come not singly , '' murmured Neria , as she rose from the couch , upon which she had thrown herself on returning from Cragness , and prepared to obey a summons to the bedside of Chloe , the negress , whose health had been rapidly failing ever since her nocturnal excursion , and who now , as she felt her last moments approach , sent an urgent message to her young mistress , imploring an interview without delay . 
Wan and trembling from her late vigils and the terrible doubts filling her mind with regard to Mrs. Luttrell 's death , Neria came , and seated herself beside Chloe 's pillow , looking like a waiting spirit sent to conduct the almost enfranchised soul to its eternal home . 
asked Neria , finding that the sufferer did not speak . 
exclaimed Neria , in amazement . 
`` Yes , missy , and dey was bof slaves , jes ' like me , '' replied the negress , with a diabolic grin on her pinched features . 
Neria looked at her in silent dismay . 
Not quite dough -- hol ' on a minute , Miss Neria . 
asked Neria , breathlessly . 
A capricious gleam of the hunchback 's constitutional malice shot from her eyes . 
`` I didn ' t ` out , missy , dat I 'd eber tell you dat , '' said she . 
asked Neria , with solemn earnestness . 
Neria laid a firm cool hand upon her forehead . 
`` It is the truth that tortures you thus , '' said she . 
But a fiercer convulsion of pain seized upon the unhappy wretch , even as she spoke . 
She grasped at Neria 's hands , and wrenched them within her own until the pain forced a deep flush over the pale face of the young woman , who yet made no effort to release them , who even forgot to pity the suffering before her in the devouring anxiety that had seized upon her . 
`` The tree -- the old oak tree '' -- a horrible sound closed the sentence ; it was the death-rattle , and with it the stiffening fingers slid from their grasp of Neria 's hands , the painful struggle ceased , and the sufferings of the unfortunate creature were at an end . 
It was not till night , and in the seclusion of her own chamber , that Neria unfolded the little canvas-covered package she had found in the cavity of the oak , where it had lain for months guarded by Chloe 's loathsome familiar . 
A small , thick note-book , clasped with silver , lay within , and as Neria carefully opened it , the pages , glued together by mould and time , tore apart as reluctantly as if they knew that the secret of a lifetime was about to be snatched from out their keeping . 
Within the cover lay a miniature , painted on ivory , the picture of a young man , handsome , proud , noble ; the face not of a stranger , but as familiar to Neria as her own , and yet she knew that she had never seen it in the flesh . 
Her mind wandered to Mrs. Luttrell and her death-chamber , and chiding itself for the wandering , came back to study every lineament of the face already beloved , for nature told her that it was her father 's . 
And still the vision of that great gloomy chamber , with its mournful bed , and the pale figure lying so motionless upon it , came floating between her and the picture , enveloped , blurred , effaced it , clamored , `` turn to me , I am the solution , this the puzzle . '' 
Neria opened it , and found a little plain ring , small enough for her own slender finger , and engraved with the initials G. de V. from E. V. This , Neria laid aside with the picture , and turned impatiently to the little book which was , she hoped , to explain everything . 
But under a date of two months later , came an entry , more carefully written , which Neria devoured as fast as her eyes could decipher the blurred and faded script . 
Neria paused , and taking the picture from the table , looked at it long and earnestly , seeking , in the noble cast of the features , the lofty bearing of the head , a contradiction of the characteristics which the journal made no attempt to disguise . 
The last words were nearly unintelligible , and Neria vainly tried to separate the few succeeding leaves ; the mould and damp had so firmly united them that she found it impossible , and it was only with great difficulty that she was able to decipher the following brief entry , under the date of nearly a year later : The child is gone , stolen I have no doubt , Giovanna is inconsolable , and I am more affected than I would have believed possible . 
After this , for many pages , Neria could distinguish only an occasional word or sentence from which to infer that the writer , with his wife , had removed from Italy to Switzerland , and that he had satisfied himself that his child was actually in the hands of the family of his wife , from which he found it impossible to rescue her . 
It is a pretty little creature and we call her Neria , because she was born upon the sea . 
Giovanna has insisted upon disposing of her most important jewels , and would even have sold the serpent-bracelet , the hereditary ornament of the daughters of her house , would I have permitted it , but this must be kept , at any rate , to deck the arm of little Neria , when it shall have attained mature proportions . 
If these Vaughns repudiate me they can not fail to welcome my lovely Giovanna , my innocent little Neria , and if they will make them happy I ask nothing for myself . 
A few more pages had been partially written over , but the disconnected words still legible gave no clue to the meaning of the whole , and Neria was fain to finish the sad story for herself . 
She readily conceived that the voyage had been accomplished , that her father had died either upon the passage or soon after his arrival in America , and that the hapless wife thus widowed had attempted to reach , with her infant , the unknown friends , of whom her husband had doubtless told her . 
Neria covered her eyes and shuddered , as fancy , or it may be something which is not fancy , pictured before her the black bitter night , the angry sea , the desolate shore , and the poor young mother struggling on , her baby in her arms , shrinking before the piercing blast which froze the tears upon her cheeks before they had time to fall , while close behind her stalked Death 's grim form , his fleshless jaws grinning , his bony hand already outstretched to seize his unconscious prey . 
moaned Neria , and in the bitterness of her pain felt a momentary resentment at Vaughn , that he had not arrived in time to save mother as well as child . 
Here and there a word was easily to be read , but nothing connected or intelligible , until in the middle of the last page appeared the words : `` secret cipher of the Vaughns , formed by using our motto as an alphabet , it has been -- '' Neria dropped the book , as a sudden conviction flashed across her mind . 
murmured she , and flying to her desk she found and opened upon the table the letter of Reginald Vaughn confided to her keeping by the musician . 
Her eyes ran hastily over the familiar sentences until she came to the cipher , upon which she had so often and so vainly pondered : The motto of the Vaughns was as familiar to her as her own name , and hastily writing upon a bit of paper the words : `` Dieu le roy et le foy du Vaughn , '' she placed the letters of the alphabet beneath the letters of those words , and by assuming the upper letter as the name of the lower one , found herself possessed of a new alphabet , by whose aid she translated the three words of cipher into the phrase : `` Father of Heralds . '' 
Here , however , was a fresh enigma ; and Neria , utterly exhausted in body and mind , put it aside for the consideration of a calmer moment , and locking the journal , the picture , and letter in her desk , threw herself upon the bed with eyes already closed , just as the earliest bird uttered his warning note of the coming morn . 
WhenNeria awoke from a brief and disturbed sleep , it was some time before she found it possible to understand what change had come upon her life . 
And as one after another of the strange revelations which Fate , after withholding them from her most urgent researches , had capriciously piled before her in a single day , rose to he mind , she set it aside to turn to another , which for the moment seemed more important . 
She was herself a Vaughn then ! 
She had the same right by birth to his proud name , as the husband who had bestowed it upon her . 
She might name her mother with tears , perhaps , but without a blush . 
And her sister ? 
Did not that dying woman say that the Venetian goblet was an inheritance from her own family , and was it not in exact similitude with the bracelet which Vaughn had , soon after their marriage , given her as her sole inheritance , the only relic of her parents ? 
And was it not thus -- and as this thought flashed into Neria 's mind she caught her breath sharply as if the poisoned tongue of the golden serpent had pierced her own flesh -- was it not the resemblance in her father 's picture , to the face of that most unhappy and foullywronged of women which had haunted her when she first beheld it ? 
Had she not sufficient ground for the conviction that Doctor Luttrell 's wife had been her own and only sister ? 
But at this point Neria once more paused aghast . 
Her husband , the man whom if she had not wholly loved she had revered and trusted , and accepted , in his every deed and thought , as worthy to be her law ! 
Neria hid her face in her hands , and a hot blush tingled over her face and neck , and even to her fingers ' ends . 
O , if Vaughn was not pure and good , what hope was there that she should ever love him better than she had done ? 
And the hereditary secret of the Vaughns , whose solution became more binding upon her than even before , now that she was herself a party to it , and now that a certain clue had been placed in her hands -- what was she to do in this matter ? 
A sudden resolution formed itself in her mind , and seating herself at the table , she hastily wrote a few lines to Fergus , merely saying that she needed his help and counsel , and begging him to come to her without delay . 
The address was hardly written , when , after a gentle tap , the door was opened by Francia , who entered so quietly that Neria , looking up in surprise , was startled to see how pale and haggard she looked , and how large her eyes had grown in a single night of watching and weeping . 
`` I have come to see if you are ill , dear , '' said the girl , gliding behind Neria 's chair to avoid her questioning eyes . 
`` No , Franc , but I can see that you are , '' and Neria , rising , took Francia 's hands in hers , and looked into her fair face , while the malign assertion of the old negress rushed back upon her memory -- `` She got de brack drop in her veins for all her pooty looks . '' 
With a sudden and womanly impulse , Neria opened her arms , and taking her adopted sister close to her heart , kissed her tenderly , and with a warmth very unusual to her ordinarily reticent temperament . 
Francia , whose heavy eyes needed but this invitation to overflow , hid her face upon the other 's neck , and wept unrestrainedly , while Neria , gently smoothing the ripples of her hair , found something terrible in the thought that this poor child had come for shelter and comfort to her of all others -- to her , who had become the recipient and possible betrayer of a secret , before which these tears should dry as morning dew before the terror of a devouring flame . 
The very idea that she must hide so much , even while appearing to receive and repay the mute confidence of these tears , made Francia 's presence distasteful to Neria 's sensitive truthfulness , and after a few moments she gently withdrew from the embrace , and said , with an attempt at cheerfulness , `` I fancy we are neither of us very well or bright this morning , darling . 
`` Yes , Neria , '' and Franc , wiping her eyes , and a little hurt at feeling her confidence repelled , was turning away , when her eye caught the direction of the letter upon the table . 
A quick wave of color swept into her wan face ; and as she hurried away , a second burst of tears gave a significant clue to the origin of the first . 
Neria looked after her thoughtfully , and from the door her eyes turned to the letter upon the table . 
`` Yes , '' said she , aloud , `` it is right that I should tell Fergus all -- everything . 
Neria looked at him quietly , and the hand sunk as if palsy-smitten . 
`` It is a business call , but not connected with your lease , '' said Neria , calmly disregarding the sneer . 
She fixed her eyes upon him as she spoke , and he , resisting the impulse to evade or quail before that straightforward glance , held his feline eyes unwaveringly upon hers , although in the effort his lips grew white , and contracting slightly upon themselves gave a cold gleam of his glittering teeth between . 
asked Neria , presently . 
`` I knew that she was so called , but I have reason to suppose that she had the right to another name by birth , '' pursued Neria , undauntedly . 
Dr. Luttrell considered for a moment , but seeing no sufficient reason for attempting to conceal facts with which Neria appeared , at least , partially acquainted , he assumed an appearance of candor , and said , `` Certainly . 
In the course of his long address he had recovered his native coolness , and in speaking the last words , looked into Neria 's face with an assured smile , mingled with something of supercilious inquiry , as to her motive in thus questioning upon matters which , as he intimated , were not her own . 
To this unspoken taunt Neria quietly replied . 
And with this last , she fixed upon him such clear bright eyes that he shrunk as from the pitiless gaze of the noonday sun , and could only stammer with averted eyes , `` Your sister ? '' 
As her regard had pierced his heart , so did her thrilling voice strike through his brain . 
He shrunk together , and , with sidelong , sullen look , that dared not rise above her feet , muttered , `` How am I to tell ? 
Neria paused a moment , while her soul gathered its strength , and the solemn light of prophecy made her face awful in its angelic beauty . 
Then she said : `` And God 's time will come at last for you and for me . 
Livid and shrunken with terror and impotent rage , he made no reply , offered no response to her gesture of farewell , but stood , with down-dropped head and hanging arms , like Eugene Aram , when , in the clear morning light , he saw , in all its hideous meaning , the vision of his sleeping hours . 
At the door she turned and said , coldly : `` My sister , in her last moments , gave me the remnant of that ancient jewel of our house , whose Venetian glass was shattered by the draught you were about to administer to her . 
He looked toward but not at her , muttered something in his throat which his white lips refused to articulate , then left the room , and presently returning with the goblet frame in his hand , offered it , without a word , to Neria . 
She took it as silently , hastily sought and found the minutely engraved initials and crest which completed the chain of evidence establishing her own and Mrs. Luttrell 's parentage , and then , with no pretence of leave-taking to the guilty man who stood watching her with doubt and terror struggling in his feline eyes , she withdrew , leaving him alone with the shadows and the memories of that ghostly chamber . 
Neria welcomed him joyfully , and at first felt as if half her perplexities were removed , now that she had so efficient a counsellor and assistant to whom she might confide them . 
But , when seated with him in the library , she began to consider at what point of the story she should commence , she found herself restrained by delicacy toward Francia , by honor toward Vaughn , from repeating the details given her by Chloe , while a reluctance to show her suspicions of Doctor Luttrell with any one whomsoever , deterred her from giving more than a vague outline of her sister 's life and death . 
But the finding of her father 's journal and its contents , the proof obtained from it of her own and Mrs. Luttrell 's parentage , as well as the identity of the bracelet and Venetian goblet with the hereditary jewels of the Vascetti , all these she related fully , as also the story of the secret trust bequeathed by Reginald Vaughn to John Gillies , and by him to herself ; all this she repeated clearly and without reserve , ending by placing before the young man the letter of his granduncle , the few lines left with it by Gillies to her , and the journal containing the key to the cipher . 
He took her hand and kissed her cheek as he spoke , and Neria felt a strange thrill in this her first recognition by her kindred . 
Neria laid them upon the table , and the young man took first the picture , which he examined minutely . 
Neria looked up in surprise , for a compliment from the truthful and exact Fergus was a circumstance ; but he , not noticing the look , was now curiously examining the bracelet and goblet frame . 
`` I have never been able to move the spring which should project the little shaft mentioned in father 's description , '' said Neria . 
Neria signified assent , and , when Fergus was gone , sat for some time indulging the pleasant consciousness that she might safely rely upon his clear head and decisive judgment for important aid in her various perplexities . 
Unconsciously , she compared him with Vaughn , and found herself better content with the uncompromising integrity , commanding will , and stern self-control of the one , than with the other 's more suave , more polished and finely graduated characteristics . 
Francia did not appear until teatime , and then scarcely looked at Fergus , who treated her politely , but with indifference . 
Neria watched both uneasily . 
`` She loves him only too well , '' thought she ; `` but he -- how does he regard her ? 
With these questions perplexing her mind , Neria became more silent than her wont . 
Under these circumstances , the time could not but pass heavily , and Neria had several times sought a private interview with her watch , hoping to find the proper hour for retiring arrived , when the sound of a carriage driving rapidly up the avenue was heard , and the next moment it passed the front of the terrace , where the cousins were seated . 
`` Some one on business , probably , '' said Neria . 
Fergus watched him for a moment , and then went to summon Francia , who , accompanied by Neria and himself , approached the steps just as the man , ascending them with some difficulty on account of the bulky nature of his burden , arrived at the top , and deposited it at their feet . 
exclaimed Neria , as she recognized the young fisherman , and saw the nature of his burden . 
She stooped as she spoke , and examined , by the light of the failing moon , the features of the body which , pinioned , helpless , but convulsed with rage and shame , lay writhing at her feet . 
It is for me to say , I think , '' interposed Neria , with quiet dignity . 
Fergus turned impatiently toward her ; but when he had met her steady look and fixedly returned it , he bowed his head -- that head so seldom bowed in deference or submission to any one -- and murmured , `` Pardonnez moi . 
Neria slightly bent her head , still more slightly smiled her thanks , but before she could again speak , Francia laid a hand upon her arm . 
`` No one has my right to act in this matter , '' said she , in a voice whose suppressed emotion tingled through its every tone , and made her low accents as thrilling as the trumpet pealing the onward charge of an army . 
Fergus made no reply , but as Neria entered the door after Francia , he quietly drew back , and would have returned to the spot where Chilton still stood , had not Neria lingered beside him , saying quietly , `` Remember , Fergus , that you are under the roof of my husband and Francia 's father , and must respect our wishes . '' 
`` But it is too much -- too much that you require , '' muttered Fergus hoarsely , as he half threw off her grasp . 
`` For Neria 's sake ! '' 
whispered Fergus , as he suffered her to lead him into the house . 
Thenext morning , after a tête-à-têtebreakfast , for Francia kept her room , Fergus and Neria drove to Cragness . 
In the library , with closed doors , and with the solemn mystery ever brooding more or less tangibly over the house and its inmates , boldly confronting and as it were daring her to its solution , Neria sank into the arm-chair of the bay window , her sensitive organization succumbing , even while her spirit rose to the crisis which instinctively she felt approaching . 
Before her dazed eyes the dim room seemed to reel and shimmer like objects seen through mirage ; the black books crowding the shelves on every side seemed gathering momentum for a forward plunge , which should bury the intruders beneath an avalanche of dead men 's thoughts and fancies -- thoughts and fancies which , instead of peacefully perishing with the brains where they were bred , had been condemned to some such life-in-death as befell the maiden chilled to sleep for a hundred years , in company with the bear , the crocodile and the serpent . 
Upon his thoughtful face Neria 's eyes at last rested , and there found support and reliance . 
`` This secret , Neria , '' said he , slowly , `` is one that must now be known . 
`` Do not judge harshly of the dead , Fergus , '' said Neria , softly . 
`` Vaughn , as I have said , showed a pitiable weakness in neglecting to either keep or tell his secret ; Gillies , an unpardonable want of determination in neglecting to unravel it -- '' `` He could not , interposed Neria , `` and his anxiety to conquer the impossibility hurried him to his grave . '' 
Now , do you know , Neria , of a copy of his work in this library ? '' 
`` No , '' replied Neria , doubtfully , `` I do n't think I have ever heard of him . '' 
`` Then let us look , '' returned her cousin briefly , and immediately commenced the search , while Neria forgot other occupation in watching his energetic movements and the rare emotion betrayed by his glittering eyes and flushed cheek . 
He seated himself , the book upon his knee , and Neria looked anxiously over his shoulder . 
`` Perhaps there is a false cover , '' suggested Neria , quietly . 
`` And yet , '' continued he , examining it more minutely , `` I do n't know but you may be right , Neria . 
The manuscript closed thus abruptly ; and , at the last word , Fergus and Neria , raising their eyes to each other 's face , withdrew them suddenly , while the frown upon his brow , the burning blush on her 's , already verified Reginald Vaughn 's bitter application of the curse ordaining that the shame and suffering of the father 's sin shall be surely visited upon the innocent children so long as the world endures . 
From its midst the golden horseman looked sullenly through his closed visor at his opponent ; and , to Neria 's strained fancy , the lance in his grasp seemed quivering with the rage of an approaching onset . 
`` These are all , '' said he , returning to the table , where Neria sat watching his movements with dilated eyes and pallid cheeks . 
These ominous words read Fergus ; and withholding them from Neria 's outstretched hand , said , softly : `` No , my cousin . 
A gleam of sunshine , piercing of a sudden the stormy sky , flashed across Neria 's pallid face and wildly lighted her sombre eyes , glanced over the bent head and dusky face of her cousin , and touched , as with the finger of Fate , the secret lying before them . 
Then , flickering upward , it lighted to a flame the golden blazonry upon the wall , lingered yet a moment upon the closed visor of the knight , and was gone , leaving a darkness and chill behind which struck upon Neria 's sensitive nerves like a breath from the tomb , whence , as it seemed to her , they were about to pluck its sacred mysteries . 
`` O Fergus , '' whispered she , pressing closer to his side , `` let us leave it as we find it . 
Remember , Neria , we are performing a solemn duty . '' 
He placed his arm about her as he spoke , and Neria sheltered within its fold as quietly as on her mother 's breast . 
Fergus was the first to speak , and his tone was harsh and bitter : `` Allow me to congratulate you , Neria . 
`` Richard Grant 's wife was as much a Vaughn as her cousin , our great grand father , '' said Neria , timidly . 
In the growing gloom , Neria crept a little closer to his side , and put her hand in his , saying , softly : `` Dear Fergus , they are dead long years ago . 
It belongs alone to you , '' persisted Fergus ; but his face brightened , his voice softened as Neria spoke and looked . 
As she spoke , the tempest , risen to its height , broke in a fearful thunder-clap directly above their heads ; the bolt splintering the topmost crag of the Lion 's Head , and sending its blackened fragments plunging into the flat and pallid sea at its feet . 
`` It is the answer to my words -- it is the promise of peace and pardon , '' murmured Neria . 
`` The house is struck -- quick , Neria ! '' 
cried Fergus ; and , seizing her in his arms , rushed from the room , through the long corridors , and into the open air , leaving the storm , the shadows , the grim , golden knight , the confession of Egbert Vaughn , the memory of his son Reginald , of Lazarus Graves , of John Gillies , of Giovanna Vascetti , of all the sin and misery which a hundred years had gathered there , to hold revel together in the dreary house . 
Neria looked and hid her eyes . 
`` Do nothing ; it is the hand of God , '' replied Neria , solemnly . 
Nancy Brume , waiting only to satisfy her conscience by informing her employers of her intentions , had followed them , and Fergus saw no other course but to wrap Neria as securely as possible , and with his arms about her , to half carry and half lead her down the cliff , hoping to find some shelter at its base . 
But Neria , wrought upon almost to frenzy by the scenes she had passed through , was now inspired with a wild terror of the spot and its neighborhood , and refused to listen to any proposition of lingering , even for a few moments . 
Anywhere away from this , '' was her only answer to the expostulations of her companion , and when Fergus had marked the rigid pallor of her face , the wild light of her eyes , and the convulsive trembling of her limbs , he no longer resisted her entreaties , but led her on through the storm , shielding her as best he could from its fury , and silently longing to take upon himself the double of her pain , fatigue and terror , if so she might be spared . 
The way was long and rough , and yet a mile from the gates of Bonniemeer , Neria 's fictitious strength suddenly gave out , and she would have fallen to the earth but for Fergus , who hastily threw an arm about her waist , and found her in the next moment swooning helplessly upon his breast . 
No human habitation lay nearer than Bonniemeer , but some rods from where they stood , Fergus remembered a ruined smithy whose broken roof might yet afford some shelter from the storm ; and , tenderly raising Neria in his arms , he made his way toward it as rapidly as his burden , the blinding rain , and the approaching darkness would allow . 
As they approached the shed Neria , recovering consciousness , struggled to regain her feet , and Fergus suffering her to so , supported her by an arm about her waist while with the other hand he drew the light shawl more closely around her neck . 
With a rare impulse of tenderness he clasped her to his heart and kissing her cold cheek , murmured : `` You are too nearly an angel , for the sin and trouble of this world , darling . '' 
With a faint sigh Neria 's head sank upon his breast , and he , not knowing that she had swooned again , bent his own above it in caressing tenderness . 
An hour later , Neria , leaning heavily upon her cousin 's arm , reached the house , and was met at the door by Francia . 
`` Why Neria ! 
exclaimed Neria , faintly . 
`` No , no , not yet , '' cried Neria , catching at Francia 's dress as she turned toward the library door . 
`` I am so tired and wet , he would be disturbed , '' pursued she , in answer to the look of surprise upon the young girl 's face . 
`` Wait a moment , Neria , '' interrupted Fergus , and drawing her a little aside , whispered , `` Shall you tell my uncle what we have discovered ? '' 
`` O no , '' returned Neria , in the same tone , `` what need of disturbing him with it ? 
`` Fergus , you should n't keep Neria now , she is very wet and will take cold . 
Besides , she wants to see papa , '' called Francia , from the foot of the stairs ; and Neria obeyed the summons , while Fergus , with rather an angry glance at his cousin , sought his uncle for the double purpose of greeting him and of relating the catastrophe of Cragness . 
Half an hour later when Neria , refreshed , but still pale and worn with her recent fatigue of body and mind , came to greet her husband , Vaughn met her with a grave and even pitiful tenderness very different from the fond devotion he had been wont to exhibit in the first days of their marriage . 
And as Neria raised her eyes to his face she was shocked to see how it had changed since their separation . 
asked she , kindly , and yet with a timid reserve in her voice , painfully familiar to her husband 's ear . 
`` Not at all , only hard at work , '' replied he , releasing the hand he had taken as he kissed her cheek . 
asked Neria , and to Vaughn 's sensitive ear it was as if she had said , `` It is well it is no longer . '' 
Only Francia , in whose mind the necessity of concealing her feelings from Fergus was even more urgent than the feelings themselves , assumed a liveliness so forced as to border on levity , and without perceiving that no one listened , no one applauded , that Vaughn was abstracted and gloomy , Neria pre-occupied with her own thoughts , and Fergus with Neria . 
The evening dragged wearily on , and at an earlier hour than usual Neria rose , pleading fatigue , and bade good-night . 
Vaughn accompanied her to the foot of the stairs , and taking her hand looked deep into her eyes . 
asked Neria , in pained surprise . 
You are right , Neria , I have no home , no wife . 
He smiled as men have smiled while death tore at their hearts and drank their blood , and left her to wearily climb the stairs and sink forlorn upon the floor of her chamber , crying , `` O mother , broken-hearted mother , why did you not cast me into the sea before you died upon its brink ? 
Anita , Gabrielle , Francia , if I have wronged you , be content , for Neria revenges all . '' 
`` You look ill and worn , Neria . 
It will kill me with its shame and sin , '' murmured Neria in reply ; and Vaughn starting as if a serpent had lain at his feet , sprang down the steps and struck toward Carrick , his brows drawn low above his glittering eyes , his mouth hard and white with the emotion he suppressed . 
She loved Fergus , and Fergus would have loved her , but that Neria stood between , and drew him to her with the wonderful magic of her smile . 
I tried to soothe and quiet her , but the child inherits the passions of her mother 's race with the pride of yours , and she threw herself away upon a man whom already she despises . 
Neria married you , and now rewards herself for the sacrifice by indulging her passion for Fergus in your absence . 
`` An anonymous letter relating to Neria and Fergus ! '' 
Then he said : `` Yes ; I will not believe Neria guilty of more than the fatal error of sacrificing herself to me , until my own eyes or her own tongue convict her . '' 
She is too careful , '' muttered the baffled woman , bitterly . 
To connect sin or shame with Neria is to drag the heavens down and trample on them . '' 
But as the words left his lips , a fiend 's echoed in his ear those that Neria had that morning spoken to Fergus : `` This terrible secret crushes me to the earth . 
`` Let me not lose my reason , let me not lose my faith in her . 
Take life , take honor , happiness , all , but leave me my faith in her -- let me die with her pure image in my heart . '' 
In the hurried note of leave-taking , written to Francia , from Carrick , he had bidden her go to Mrs. Rhee as soon as possible , and had sent word to Neria that she would receive a letter from him in a day or two , explaining his abrupt departure in full . 
ToNeria came Francia with her father 's note . 
She found her in the library with Fergus , who reported the present condition of the ruins at Cragness , and the attempt he had , by his uncle 's desire , put in progress to rescue such books , pictures or furniture as might have been spared by the flames . 
As Francia entered , Neria was saying -- `` I am sorry anything is to be done . 
Come with me , Neria , please . 
`` Not afraid of being too tender with her , as you might be , '' retorted Francia , turning decidedly toward Neria , who sat pale and silent . 
pleaded she . 
`` Yes , please , '' replied Neria , absently , and as the door closed , turned to Fergus , her eyes full of perplexity and dismay . 
I had meant -- I had hoped while he was here -- '' She paused and Fergus would never have asked her to continue , had his curiosity been excited to its fullest extent . 
He only took her hand , kissed it lightly and walked away to the window , lest he should seem to watch the emotion she could scarce control . 
The silence had not been broken when Francia returned , bringing Neria 's hat and announcing the carriage . 
Fergus , with silent courtesy , waited upon his cousins to the door , helped Francia to enter the carriage as carefully as he did Neria , and saw them drive away before re-entering the house . 
Upon the library floor he found Neria 's handkerchief , wet with the tears she had been unable quite to repress . 
Neria , sad and grave answered but briefly Francia 's first attempts at conversation , and as they approached their destination the young girl herself grew grave in remembering their errand . 
Neria silently assented , and the two entered together the chamber of the dying woman and stood at her bedside . 
She was dozing , but opened her eyes as they approached , fixed them fondly on Francia and then turned to Neria . 
`` Since you have come here I have something to say to you , Mrs. Vaughn , '' said she , maliciously . 
`` Certainly , if you wish , aunty , '' replied Francia , moving somewhat reluctantly to the door , and casting wondering looks at Neria , who although much surprised at the request made no movement to contradict it . 
Neria silently obeyed , and Mrs. Rhee gazed scrutinizingly upon the pure pale face with its fearless eyes and queenly mouth . 
`` I will move you from that proud calm before I am done , '' thought she , and then said , significantly , `` Mr. Vaughn was here this morning and talked to me a long time of you . '' 
`` I have not blamed him for doing so , '' replied Neria , calmly , as the other waited for an answer . 
Neria rose and stood looking down upon the miserable woman who sought to insult her , with a sublime compassion , a lofty innocence . 
cried Neria , and into her pale face flashed the seraphic power which had subdued Luttrell , which had drawn her secret from Chloe 's reluctant lips ; the power of a nature untouched by sin , though filled with the knowledge of good and evil . 
Neria left the room without reply , and telling Francia that Mrs. Rhee was ready for her , added a caution against staying long , as she was already much exhausted . 
Half an hour passed while Neria , waiting in the little parlor , resolutely battled with the doubts and terror , inspired , in spite of her determination , by Mrs. Rhee 's explanation of Vaughn 's disappearance . 
She was roused from her reverie by quick footsteps running down the stairs , and Francia 's voice calling to her from the passage , as she hurried out of the house and seated herself in the carriage . 
Neria followed with some anxiety . 
She should not be left alone , '' asked she , hesitating . 
She did not wish me to stay , '' replied Francia , hurriedly ; as she drew her veil closely about her face , and taking the reins drove rapidly homeward . 
Neria looked at her in suprise . 
said she , inquiringly , when some moments had passed in silence . 
If I had known her sooner -- '' She stopped abruptly , as fearing to betray a secret , and with averted face urged the horses to a more rapid pace . 
Neria leaned back in her seat , her eyes fixed upon the distant shimmer of the sea , lying like a lake of fire beneath the noonday sun , and the bitterness of wronged and repulsed affection surged irresistibly upon her soul . 
thought she . 
Reaching home , Francia threw the reins to the groom , sprang from the carriage without a word , and hurried to her own room . 
Neria did not follow her there , but still stood wistfully watching her retreating figure when Fergus , opening the library door , asked her to enter for a moment . 
exclaimed Neria in a tone of sharp distress , and turning , she would have left the room , but staggering blindly against a chair sank beside it , her face hidden upon it , and broke into a passion of tears . 
Fergus , not guessing the pain and doubt filling her heart to overflowing when she entered , stood thunderstruck for a moment , and then a strange wild joy throbbed through his veins . 
This uncontrollable grief , this emotion so rare in one so habitually calm ; was it that Neria felt his presence a necessity , that she leaned upon him and could not lose him ? 
He stooped and raised her in his arms . 
His lips sought hers and kissed them tenderly , but Neria wrenched herself from his embrace , crying : `` This ! 
She fled out of his presence , and Fergus , guessing at his mistake , cursing his fatal error , and consumed with mortification at his own weakness and the injury he had done both to Neria 's feelings and her opinion of himself , left the house abruptly , with no further leave-taking or explanation . 
Thenext day brought Vaughn 's promised letter to Neria . 
I could not see you again , Neria , I could not write to you of less than the whole . 
Love such as yours , Neria , is of God , and as holy and as sacred as all his gifts . 
As Neria read and read again these tender words , and felt the noble heart throb through them its devotion , its trust , its heroic abnegation , her own heart stirred within her as it never yet had stirred . 
Again and again she read them until her eyes shown bright , and her cheeks burned scarlet with the fire of a wild emotion . 
` Not Launcelot or another , ' '' murmured she , pressing the letter to her brow , her heart , her lips . 
And then the passionate words of the great Idyl sprang to her lips , and with the guilty queen she cried But at that woful word , the new-born human love gave way to human grief and terror , and Neria , for the first time in her married life , felt her heart shrink with the sudden fear that Vaughn might die and leave her desolate . 
cried she , upon her knees , with hands and eyes upraised to heaven . 
When she arose comforted , it was with a fixed resolve . 
She would seek her husband were it in the front of battle . 
If he died she would die with him ; if he lived her love should make life another existence from what they had either of them known . 
And then her thoughts went back through her own brief history , gratefully acknowledging the tender affection , care , and honor with which Vaughn had crowned the life he had rescued ; the chivalrous homage of his love , the passionate devotion , so coldly repaid , in the early days of their marriage . 
And now , at last , when he had traversed hundreds of miles to greet her , perhaps for the last time , to bid her , it might be an eternal farewell , he had found her preoccupied , cold , reserved . 
It was the shadow of the secret , she said to herself , it was the curse of that old-time sin and misery pursuing to the third and fourth generation the children of those who had so sinned and suffered ; and she now regretted that she had not at once confided all to Vaughn , and by sharing with him the secret of her depression , prevented the misconception under which he evidently labored . 
Still dreaming , with smiling lips and dewy eyes , Neria was startled by two soft arms laid tenderly about her neck , while Francia 's lips sought hers . 
`` Forgive me , darling ; say that you forgive me , '' whispered she . 
Neria 's arm about her waist drew her to a seat upon her lap as she whispered back : `` How can I forgive what has not offended me ? '' 
`` Yes , dear , I know , '' said Neria again . 
`` And then she said papa believed -- '' `` You should have done your father more honor than to believe that he believed , '' said Neria , quietly . 
`` I know it ; but at first -- and then , Neria , she toldme something else -- something -- '' The girl paused , and , drawing a little back , looked into Neria 's face with such a dumb cry of appeal , such endless protest against the burden fallen of a sudden upon her untried shoulders , that Neria caught her to her heart , shielding and comforting her as if she were a little wounded child . 
O Neria , my father bought her ; she was a slave . 
Neria , Neria , speak out the truth ! 
How could any honorable man ever trust -- '' She hid her burning face again , and the passionate sobs that shook her frame finished the sentence . 
`` But , O , Neria , can I learn to be such a woman ? 
broke from Francia 's impetuous lips ; but before Neria could answer , she hurried on : `` I do n't mean -- that is -- I was n't thinking of what I said . 
Neria took the scrap of soiled and torn paper and read these lines , hastily written in pencil : I arrive just in time . 
Francia looked at her in astonishment . 
Could this be the calm and self-contained Neria ; this wild-eyed creature , moving , looking , speaking with an impetuosity to which her own stormy moods were calm ? 
`` I will go , too , Neria , darling , if you must go , '' said she , beginning with busy hands to arrange the clothes in a travelling sack that Neria was already packing . 
said Neria , ringing the bell violently to give the order : `` Tell John to harness the horses as quick as possible to drive me to Carrick , and send Mrs. Barlow to me immediately . '' 
I must see my husband at all hazards , '' exclaimed Neria , feverishly , turning from one to the other with hands clasped in unconscious appeal . 
`` If it could be done at any hazard , however great , Neria , you should try it , and I with you , '' said Fergus , coming close to her , and taking the clasped hands in his ; `` but we might not even be allowed to try . 
In a few days , or whenever hostilities cease , it is very possible something may be done ; but at present it is quite , O quite out of the question , '' replied Mr. Murray , in his silkiest manner , but with a determination in his cold eyes that smote Neria with dismay . 
echoed she , despairingly . 
Neria 's head dropped upon her breast . 
muttered she . 
He laid a hand upon her shoulder , and the dry white fingers quivered with a motion that was almost a caress . 
Neria looked vacantly in his face , and turned to Fergus . 
asked she , unconsciously using as a weapon in her extremity the very ove whose confession she had so sharply rebuked a few hours before . 
`` Refuse you , Neria ? '' 
But while I wait he will be killed ; and then -- '' She looked at him , at his father , at Francia . 
In every face she read denial , and all the pity and the love covering it could not assuage the sharp pang that pierced her heart , the bitterness as of death borne in upon her soul by the mocking echo , `` Too late ! 
At last came the victory ; but victory or deteat were one to Neria in the terrible anxiety devouring her . 
The returns from the regiments arrived , and hour by hour Fergus came with cheery step to say , `` No bad news yet , Neria . '' 
At last he did not come until , as the suspense grew intolerable , and Neria was about to venture forth to seek him , she heard him slowly ascending the stairs . 
She met him in the doorway , looked into his marble face and pitiful eyes , and crying , `` Too late ! 
A weeklater , Fergus returning from `` the front '' with a companion , brought him to Bonniemeer , and into Neria 's presence . 
Neria raised her dim eyes to the sergeant 's agitated face . 
`` Please tell me everything you can remember of him , '' said she , simply . 
Reuben Brume stopped and turned his face away ; but though tears rained down his bronzed cheeks , and Fergus was fain to hide his face , Neria 's eyes glittered cold and bright as winter stars , and her voice was unshaken while she asked : `` And his body ? '' 
asked Neria again , in that icy voice . 
`` Well 'm , I guess they did n't stop to pick their way much , that 's a fact , '' assented Reuben , reluctantly ; and Neria turned her stony face toward the window and seemed to gaze at the far-off sea , smiling and dimpling in the gorgeous hues of sunset . 
At a sign from Fergus the soldier followed him silently from the room , and from the house , and a few days later shipped on board a whaler for a long voyage , so careful was Fergus to remove from Neria 's path all that might remind her of her loss . 
The late moon rising through one of these cloud-banks looked out upon the scene , tipped with silver the crested ocean waves , flaunted her banner across the combat of wind and forest , and fell like a benediction upon the golden harvest fields already ripe for the reaper . 
But from one field the blessed moonlight shrank affrighted , upon one harvest fell no benediction , but rather a curse ; for when climbing the mountain behind it , the moon hung where she might view it well , she hid her face and all earth remained in darkness . 
The golden autumn gave way to the majesty of winter , winter softened beneath the kiss of spring , like a hard old king in the embrace of his girlish bride ; spring ripened into the trancéd glow of summer , and Neria 's widowed heart mourned day by day more passionately , and more remorsefully . 
Remorsefully , for upon that delicate conscience lay the burden of a noble life sacrificed to her ingratitude . 
Not one of the weary days , not one of the fearsome nights since the news of Vaughn s death , but she had told herself that it was for love of her , for sorrow at her coldness , and remorse at the bonds he had placed upon her , that he had gone to his death so resolutely -- that death and he could not fail to meet . 
Day and night she bowed herself before God and before His spirit for pardon and comfort , and day and night she rose uncomforted , for as the flow of Heavenly love warmed and expanded her heart , came with it the fresh consciousness of the earthly passion sprung full-grown to life within her soul , and clamoring aloud for the food she could not give it . 
Mourned the father she had adored , the joy that had passed from her life and from her home ; mourned her own wasted youth and wasted heart ; for this is the cruel nature of a great sorrow , that it does not absorb and negative the other sorrows preoccupying the heart where it comes to dwell , but rather stings and quickens them to new life , inhabiting with them not in peace or in harmony , but with a bitter fellowship . 
But of all these , one subject alone had interest for Neria , and this was the war . 
Since Vaughn 's death the only link holding her to earth had seemed to be the cause in which he died . 
She read all the news , listened to all the details brought her by the Murrays , traced through the desolate southern land the progress of our armies , but more especially the corps containing Vaughn 's regiment , whispering to herself , `` He would have been here now , '' or `` They need not have made this retreat had he been with them , '' and so , half persuading herself that he was still identified with the great struggle , she identified herself with it not only in interest , but by contributing of the means at her command , so liberally as to call down the censure of her advisers , and a recommendation on more than one occasion from Mr. Murray to regulate her donations somewhat upon the scale of those of other and wealthier patriots . 
But Neria , gentle and yielding in most matters of business , was here inexorable , saying , with serene decision , `` We need but little here at Bonniemeer , and all the rest goes to help his armies and his fellow-soldiers . '' 
Itwas the twilight of a summer 's day , and Neria , from the shore beneath the ruins of Cragness , watched the curving waves slide up the sands , watched the glory dying from the western sky , watched the faint light of the young moon creeping down the wall and peering into the chasm whence had fled upon that fearful evening the secrets of the gloomy old home of her fathers . 
The sound of horses ' feet upon the sands broke upon her revery , and , looking around , she saw Mr. Livingstone dismounting from a carriage driven by one of her own servants ; and rising hastily went toward him , smitten with a sudden terror by the pallor of his usually florid face and the gleam of his restless eyes . 
Their hands met , and Neria 's eyes asked the question her lips could not form . 
`` Yes 'm , '' replied her visitor , nervously wiping the forehead where great drops of perspiration gathered , although the night wind was blowing fresh and cool -- `` yes 'm , it 's me , and I 've come to you for help . 
O , Neria , she 's gone , she 's -- '' His white lips quivered , and he stopped to swallow a great sob , while the clammy drops upon his forehead broke out afresh . 
`` She 's gone ? 
asked Neria , turning pale at sight of his emotion . 
asked Neria , stemming the torrent of words which seemed somewhat to relieve the over-burdened heart of the injured husband . 
`` She 's gone , run off ; and where , or who with , or for what , I do n't know more than you , '' said Mr. Livingstone , pausing in the act of wiping his forehead again , and staring blankly into Neria 's face . 
persisted she . 
`` It was just as she says there , '' continued Mr. Livingstone ; while Neria handed back the note with a look of silent dismay . 
asked Neria . 
`` Yes , I would ; for somehow she 's got such a hold of me , Neria , it seems as if I could forgive her if she cost me every cent I 've got in the world . 
But where is she , and how am I to look for her ? 
I 've come to you to know , for you always could do more with her than anyone else , and you 've got a way of looking right into matters that I never saw in any other woman . 
Neria , shocked and pained , assured him that there could be nothing she would not gladly do to aid him were it possible to do anything , but professing an ignorance as entire as his own of Claudia 's probable movements or probable companion . 
Toward night of the next day , however , he reappeared , with an excitement of manner and appearance , added to the disturbance of the previous day , that prepared Neria for his news . 
asked Mr. Livingstone , meeting Neria 's grieved eyes with a look of impatient questioning . 
whispered Neria . 
`` But yesterday you said you would forgive her -- you said you would take her back if she would come , '' pleaded Neria , gently . 
Neria looked at him in perplexity , uncertain whether to pity or to turn from him ; but the struggle was a brief one . 
`` Let us go and find her , and on the way we will speak of what we shall say to her , '' said she , with the angelic voice and look no one yet had ever resisted . 
And Mr. Livingstone , softened and refined in spite of himself , yielded to her gentle bidding . 
Arrived at their destination Mr. Livingstone left Neria at the little inn while he made cautious inquiries as to the whereabout of Mr. Brown 's farm-house and the character and appearance of his boarders . 
`` I have found her , '' exclaimed he , coming close to Neria , and speaking in a hoarse , quick tone . 
`` I do not doubt she repents already -- it must be that she does , '' said Neria , eagerly . 
`` It can not be that she will wish to go , '' suggested Neria , considerably shocked at the nature of the conditious apparently considered satisfactory by the injured husband . 
broke involuntarily from Neria 's lips . 
asked Neria , escaping from the discussion . 
`` In one moment ; '' and as Neria possessed the rare feminine virtue of counting but sixty seconds to a minute , she was ready nearly as soon as her companion . 
She 's got to be coaxed and no one can come near her half so quick as you , Neria . '' 
asked Neria . 
`` Why , say I know she 's done what she had n't ought to , but I forgive her if she 's as sorry as she should be . 
Tell her I 'm lonesome without her , and she 's too handsome and too stylish a woman to go the way she 's set out , and though it 's a hard pill for me to swallow , still I love her well enough to overlook what she 's done -- and -- you fix out the rest yourself . 
faltered Neria , as she left the carriage . 
With these instructions Neria walked slowly down the shady road , and stood presently at the door of an old red farm-house , nestling picturesquely among its lilacs and syringas . 
Her knock brought the blithe-faced housewife to the door , and as she nodded inquiringly at the visitor , a sudden perplexity arose in Neria 's mind . 
How should she inquire for Claudia ? 
She would not use the assumed name of Smith ; she dared not speak the one sullied by Claudia 's sin . 
She threw open the door as she spoke , and Neria , entering , closed it behind her , for already she had caught the wild glance of Claudia 's eyes , and shielded her from observation and scrutiny , while still she might . 
`` I want to call you back before it is too late , '' and Neria sank upon her knees beside her . 
It is too late already -- too late for anything but to go on as I have begun -- '' exclaimed Claudia , half angrily , half piteously , but suffering Neria to take one of her cold hands in hers . 
`` You do well , Neria , to put your name with mine . 
Neria 's white lips quivered with the sharp pang at her heart , but she answered bravely -- `` You can not know it , but my sin is hardly less than yours . 
`` O , yes , you talk , you good women talk , but you know not what you say , '' exclaimed Claudia , writhing nervously away from Neria 's arms . 
I do not know much of these matters , but do you think , Neria , it could ever be forgotten -- I mean when I am dead ? '' 
She spoke softly , and woman though she was , seemed half ashamed of caring for what had always been her scoff . 
` Though thy sins be as scarlet , they shall become white as wool , '' ' said Neria , solemnly . 
I ran away partly because I could n't keep up a smiling face and easy manner any tonger , but it is worse to be alone , and -- '' she stopped and looked about her -- `` worst of all to try and talk with him . 
But you , Neria , I can trust to you . 
O , Neria , may I ? '' 
She turned and laid her head upon Neria 's bosom , clinging about her neck with a pitiful dependence , while she , her pale face and beautiful eyes irradiated with the joy of an angel , who leads back to the fold a soul almost lost forever , bowed her cheek upon that regal head , and whispered such words of promise and pardon and love , as God gave her to speak . 
If I might come to you , Neria ; but no , they would not let me -- I must not contaminate you . 
asked Neria , with some severity . 
`` True , true ; I ought to be humble , and I will try ; but you know , Neria , how ungoverned I have been , '' said Claudia , sadly . 
`` Perhaps , dear Claudia , if you had done more justice to the really fine qualities of his disposition you would have developed others , and learned to love them so well that this could never have been , '' suggested Neria `` Perhaps ; but now it is too late , '' said Claudia , wearily . 
`` We will ask together , '' said Neria ; and with the simple words of the petition went up to the Mercy Seat an offering of the scalding tears of a true repentance -- the pure , bright drops of a holy sympathy , an angelic pity . 
`` Sit there , Neria ; let me put my head in your lap and cry ; it will do me good , '' moaned Claudia ; and Neria did not resist the impulse of humility so significant in the haughty sinner . 
A half hour passed thus ; and when the sobs had died away in sighs , and Claudia , pushing back the purple-black masses of hair from her face , smiled wanly up in Neria 's face , she said : `` And now I shall call your husband to hear you say what I know you will wish to say to him . '' 
`` Then you would not have called him if -- '' `` If you had been hard and impenitent , no , '' said Neria , quietly . 
asked she ; but Neria , with a little smile and a shake of the head , waived the question , and hastened from the house . 
Never in his prosperous life had Mr. Livingstone passed so anxious and miserable an hour as that since Neria had left him , and he now came to meet her with a trepidation of manner very unlike his usual placid self-satisfaction . 
You will be generous and gentle with her , I am sure , '' replied Neria , pointing toward the house . 
`` Do n't think of me , but go at once , and do not hurry back , '' replied Neria , pitying his agitation ; and Mr. Livingstone with a fervent pressure of the hand , silently followed her advice . 
Left alone Neria sat for a while in the shady nook selected for her by Mr. Livingstone , and then attracted by the tender gloom brooding in the recesses of a wood , bordering on the road , she wandered into it , satisfied that she should see or hear her companion whenever he might return . 
But absorbed in her own thoughts she soon lost sight of the road , and striking into a woodland path strolled slowly along it , pausing now and again to smile a recognition to some familiar flower , or to listen to the song of some forest bird , lovingly as to the voice of a friend . 
To pluck the flower no more occurred to Neria 's mind than to kill the bird , or to wound the friend . 
But at its height the harmony of this pastorale was broken by the baying of a hound , rapidly approaching , and while Neria startled , if not frightened , stood pale and still , he broke through the underbrush and sprang toward her . 
Timid , like most women , Neria 's timidity took often the form of a blind courage , and she now advanced toward the fierce brute with the `` good dog ! 
The hound , evidently surprised at this course of treatment , instead of the panic and flight on which he had counted , paused to consider of it , and like the woman who deliberates was lost , for Neria 's little hand upon his head , her eyes meeting his , reduced him in one moment from her fierce antagonist to the humblest of her slaves , fawning at her feet , smiling up into her face , and lavishing such caresses as she would permit upon hands and cheeks . 
The whistle was repeated , and with an apologetic kiss bestowed upon Neria 's hand , he bounded away , but was met at the turn of the road by a man with a gun upon his shoulder , who called him sharply by name and ordered him to follow more closely . 
Neria , already walking away , heard this voice , and caught her breath sharply . 
It did not need the hasty look she involuntarily cast behind to assure her that the gunner was Doctor Luttrell , the man of all others whom she most wished to avoid . 
He had recognized her also , and with a few strides was at her side , his tawny eyes glittering , his thin lips curling with malice . 
`` It is no pleasure to me to see you , Dr. Luttrell , as you must be well aware , '' said Neria , coldly . 
The insulting tone pointed the words , and Neria suddenly stopped and looked at him . 
`` It was you , then , who wrote an anonymous letter to Colonel Vaughn , '' said she , contemptuously . 
`` Did you not know him to be dead you would not dare acknowledge such infamy , '' exclaimed Neria , indignantly . 
Might I hope that in time I could conquer the repugnance with which you have ever repaid the admiration I have never concealed -- '' began Luttrell , mockingly , but Neria interrupted him . 
`` I have nothing more to say to you now or ever , '' said she , coldly ; `` except to give you a warning . 
Luttrell 's lips grew white , and his eyes sparkled with rage as he fixed them upon Neria 's . 
`` I dare anything for the right , even to meddling with Doctor Luttrell 's honor , '' said Neria , roused to an impulse of bitterness . 
Believe me , Neria , it is not safe . 
`` I am not afraid of you , Doctor Luttrell , '' said Neria , quietly . 
Neria looked at him a moment , and silently turned away . 
He overtook and detained her . 
Be my friend , Neria . 
`` Were you able to perform even that impious promise I would make no compact with you , '' exclaimed Neria , indignantly . 
She moved decidedly away , and Luttrell , gasping with passion and sudden hate , bounded after and grasped her brutally by the arm , but as he did so the imprecation upon his lips changed to a cry of pain and withdrawing his hand he clenched and shook it as in agony . 
His cry was echoed from Neria 's lips , and as she wrenched her arm from his grasp the golden serpent bracelet fell from within her sleeve and lay coiling among the dewy grass , its diamond eyes and ruby crest sparkling with a malicious joy . 
The deadly purpose of Fiemma Vascetti had been fulfilled , and she in her century-old grave rejoiced at the vengeance wrought upon the enemy of her house . 
cried Neria , pale with horror . 
Neria threw herself upon her knees beside the dying man , her eyes dilated with horror but shining with a holy purpose . 
`` It is not I who have killed you , '' said she , solemnly ; `` It is the hand of God ! 
persisted Neria , her whole frame quivering with horror as she knelt beside him , one hand pressed convulsively upon her heart , the other raised to heaven . 
I will not go , I will not watch you , but pray beside you till the last , '' said Neria ; and with that guilty soul went to God such petitions for its pardon and peace as Neria could never have uttered had he for whom she prayed less bitterly wronged her and hers . 
At sight of Neria he paused , hesitated , and would have turned , but was arrested by a warning growl from the dog , who seized him by the coat and dragged him on . 
Neria looked up , too stunned for surprise . 
`` Go for help , James , '' said she , quietly . 
`` Yes , ma'am , '' said James , with taciturn obedience ; and , leaving him standing with the dog beside the terrible thing so rudely marring the sylvan beauty of the scene , Neria hurried away , hardly conscious whither she went , hardly conscious of the joy that , buried deep beneath this weight of horror , began already to sing in the depths of her heart -- `` He lives ! 
Faithfulto every duty , Neria had prepared for that terrible home-coming ; had broken the ghastly tidings to Claudia ; had seen that Mr. Livingstone was able and willing to soothe the agitation into which her passionate excitement had subsided , and had singly told the story of Luttrell 's death to the physician and magistrate summoned to meet his dead body at the farm-house , before she allowed herself a word with James , who , with the activity and tact of his class , had superintended not only the removal of the body from the forest to the house , but all the subsequent proceedings . 
Neria , released at length , found him sitting in a shady porch at the back of the house . 
She gave him her hand , while her eager eyes , asked as well before her lips : `` James , where is your master ? '' 
`` But how -- why -- '' She would not ask what wifely pride told her she never should have needed to ask ; but her magical eyes spoke for her , and the man replied : `` I do n't know , ma'am , except it was the Colonel 's wishes that no one should know . 
Neria smiled slightly ; for , indeed , the solemn twinkle of James 's eye , and the elaborate innocence of his tone , in thus revealing his little plot for a return to civilization and identity , were too funny to be resisted . 
`` I will go with you to him , '' said she , after a moment of thought . 
Wait until I speak to Mrs. Livingstone , '' said Neria ; and James submissively answered : `` Yes , ma'am ; '' while in his shrewd heart he thought -- `` She 's afraid he 'd be off and never come . '' 
To Claudia , Neria simply said she must leave her for a few hours ; and to Mr. Livingstone that she needed no other escort upon her errand than that of James , whose appearance in this place she did not attempt to explain . 
Absorbed in their own emotions , neither husband nor wife questioned or watched her , and just as the sun touched the tops of the tallest forest trees Neria passed under their shadows , and with a heart strangely vibrating between joy and fear followed her taciturn conductor toward the secluded hut where Vaughn had sought to bury his broken life , his despairing love . 
The path led by the scene of the morning 's tragedy , and when James would have turned aside to avoid coming within sight of it , Neria checked him . 
`` Let us go straight on , '' said she , quietly ; and as they reached the place she paused and gazed unshrinkingly at the spot where the corpse had lain , while in her inmost heart she once more offered full and free pardon to the guilty soul thence sped , and prayed that even so might he be pardoned of God . 
`` Here is the bracelet , ma'am , '' interposed James , thinking that must be the object of her search . 
`` Thank you , James ; we will go on now , '' said Neria , taking the bauble in a reluctant hand , and hastily putting it out of sight , while its wicked eyes , catching a ray of the setting sun , shot out a green and crimson light . 
`` I am glad if it is so , '' said Neria , quietly ; and James , suspecting the subject a disagreeable one , said no more upon it . 
The sun had set , and the moon -- the moon that a few days before had shone upon Neria through the riven walls of Cragness -- now shed silver light upon her head as she stood just within the edge of a clearing , half way up the mountain-side , and looked at the picture to which her guide had silently pointed before he left her . 
But to Neria the picturesque side of the scene could not present itself . 
She saw before her the object of the love that since his reported death had risen to a vital passion ; the husband , whom , as she devoutly believed , God had given back to her incessant prayers , if not from the grave , at least from a living death . 
Heart and soul clamored for the joy and rest of his embrace , his kiss , his full , free pardon and love , and yet a nameless doubt , a womanly diffidence , a Nerean shyness held her back , would not let her run to fall at his feet as she would have done ; held her trembling and wavering there , a sweet statue of some woodnymph smitten with love and awe at her first sight of humanity . 
So , like the spirit of the night , the genius of the wood , she stood as Vaughn turned of a sudden and looked toward her , looked long and silently , and whispered , half aloud , `` It is her spirit -- she is dead . '' 
Then , with bated breath and measured step , as one who treads a holy place , he came toward her , and she , blind and sick with the great joy swirling through her heart , stood mute and still awaiting him . 
A few feet off he stopped , and whispering , `` Neria ! '' 
Then , with a great sob , the fountains of her heart broke up , and throwing herself into that longed-for embrace , she cried out , `` My husband ; O , my love , my lord , my all ! '' 
My Neria , mine at last , my very wife ? '' 
incoherently questioned Vaughn , putting her away to look into the earnest , tearful face , all flushed with love and excitement , that so bashfully , yet earnestly , returned his gaze , and then straining her close , close and closer to the sad heart that had so longed to feel her there . 
But Neria , struggling from his arms , slid to her knees , `` Say , say that you forgive me for all I have made you suffer , '' murmured she . 
He smiled , and would have kissed the clear , bright eyes , but Neria held him back . 
`` By one thing in all our life you have done me wrong , '' said she . 
But now , thank God and Neria , the love in my heart has reached to hers , and across that rosy bridge sympathies and perceptions shall travel so incessantly from the one heart to the other , that we may never say where the sweet pilgrims really dwell , the two shall so become one heart . 
And how dare I accept such gifts , I who -- Neria , here upon this lonely mountain-side , before we go back together to the world whence you have come to claim me , I must tell you the errors and mistakes of my early life , and , if it may be , gain pardon both for the concealment and for what has been concealed . '' 
But now tell me , sweet , how you came here , standing like a spirit in the moonlight , and watching me with your dreamy eyes , until I thought you indeed a thing of air or water or fire , altogether fashioned of the elements , and inspired with the pure soul of my pure-hearted Neria . '' 
He drew her toward his cabin as he spoke , and seating her upon the great stone where she had found him , stretched himself at her feet , gazing intently up into her face , while she related as briefly as she might , the strange chain of events that had led her hither . 
`` I may truly say to him , ` Well done , good and faithful servant , ' for without his intervention I do not know , my Neria , how this tangled coil would have been undone . 
I think the leading idea was , to live here in the woods a sort of wild hunter life , until , at last , dying I should send for Neria to close my eyes , and give me one parting kiss . 
Neria looked at him with dim eyes and a quivering mouth . 
I do not recognize the word with my arm about Neria 's waist , my head upon her knee , her eyes looking love into mine , '' whispered Vaughn , passionately ; and then , man-like , he proudly smiled to see the rose-tint mount her slender throat , flush her soft cheek , and faintly tinge her brow . 
`` Neria , say ` I love you , Sieur , ' '' ordered he ; and Neria , blushing yet more brightly , whispered , `` I love you , Sieur ; I love you better than my life , '' and as he kissed her lips she kissed back with the first wife-kiss they had ever formed . 
Themoon that lighted Neria on her true-love quest had waned and faded , and a tender crescent hung in the west when Francia Vaughn , creeping from her father 's house like a guilty creature , stole through the shadowy garden and on to the wood beyond , where lay the mere . 
But once within its friendly covert , and shielded from all eyes , even those of the stars just trembling into view , she paused , and throwing herself upon the ground , gave way to a burst of passionate grief ; grief of which only an ardent temperament , an untried nature , and the first vigor of youth is capable . 
A firm , slow step came through the wood , and Francia , starting to her feet , resolutely composed her face and turned to meet Fergus . 
Francia 's cold fingers dropped lifelessly from Fergus 's grasp , and she stood silent with averted face . 
Francia mutely turned her steps in that direction , and walked beside him with eyes that , looking straight before her , saw nothing . 
Fergus , the iron Fergus , felt the influence of the hour , of his approaching departure , of the memories thronging the place and time , and turning to his cousin took her hand and softly asked , `` Not one word of regret for me , Franc ? '' 
She snatched her hand away , asking in turn , `` Do you remember when we last stood here , Fergus ? '' 
The grief , so thinly cloaked by indignation , struggled up as she spoke , and turning to meet his eyes , her own suddenly overflowed . 
I have changed since then , '' said Fergus , moodily ; and turning slightly from her , he bitterly reviewed the months of the last year . 
Fergus faced her , and , with his imperious eyes on hers , asked quietly , `` What do you mean , Francia ? '' 
I did not mean to say that , '' replied she , in confusion . 
`` Well , then , I mean that when you thought my father was dead you loved Neria , '' said Francia , softly , and turning from him to pluck the leaves from the rustling alder at her side . 
Her cousin turned her face to his . 
`` He loved me , and you -- you had never said -- I thought you cared for Neria . '' 
Looking steadily into her face the young man read there a determination equal to his own ; a dignity and self-respect as firmly based as those forming the foundation of his own character . 
Forestalling the secrets of those years , we may fancy Vaughn and Neria , in harmony at last with each other and with life , the noble , dignified and gracious heads of a well-ordered household , ruling their children and their dependents with such loving wisdom , such mild authority , that the law becomes delight , and obedience is as involuntary as affection . 
Yes , let us hope even for Claudia , for under the sin and passion and weakness that have hurried her to shipwreck , lies a great , strong heart , a heart whose deepest fountains were stirred while she lay upon her knees at Neria 's feet that day in the lonely farm-house , and heard that the husband she had wronged would even yet forgive and grant her the opportunity for repentance that she had counted already lost . 
